www.blakesontelegraph.com original intentions at the 1923 teahouse at 8 p.m. suggested donation of $7-$15.
california cities have embraced this legal definition of domestic partnership by creating similar municipal laws.
similar to massachusetts, the california state constitution opens with the  following statement: “all people are by nature free and independent and  have inalienable rights.
i can only suggest they come to  terms with the fact that cars have been around for well over a century, that  good reasons exist for their popularity, and that regrettably, the way to a  achieve an exciting downtown is not by wishful thinking.
after hosting lunch poems for eight years, professor hass has finally been prevailed upon to read his own poems.
if, as suggested in the article, the  transformation includes museums, and, as mentioned by dona spring, daylighting  of strawberry creek, it could be phenomenal.
this served as the main american recruiting center for the network that after the war became known as al qaeda.
despite a recent request by the city council for a progress report due in  january and a commentary in the berkeley daily planet in which maio and mayor  tom bates called for zoning regulation changes to implement the university  avenue plan, residents are frustrated by what they call a lack of leadership.
colormark’s metal watering wands come in rainbow hues that recall the aluminum tumblers of the 1950s.
coupled with increased expenses for employee benefits and drugs and reductions in government aid—including a $7 million cut from a federal program aiding public hospitals—the center has struggled to balance its books, said spokesperson rachel kagen.
www.kitka.org berkeley ballet theater, “the nutcracker,” at 2 p.m. at julia  morgan center for the arts.
http://botanicalgarden.berkeley.edu holiday crafts fair, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the saturday berkeley  farmers’ market, center st. at mlk, jr. way.
“we’ve certainly lost about $200,000 in revenue,” said  santa cruz finance director david culver, adding that the hotel brought in as  much as $500,000 in taxes for the city in 2000 at the tail end of the economic  boom.
in his mouth, a caramel, sour apple lollipop, in  his hands a 10-pound oven-stuffer turkey.
he pointed out projects like acton court were ultimately decided by city  council, and he said the state housing density bonus mandate—a  one-size-fits-all law—makes his department’s job more  difficult.
there’s a best-selling book with a title something like everything i need to know i learned in kindergarten.
but instead of renting rooms to visiting parents or alums, the university turned most of it into student housing.
orange, aqua,  white.
grace north church, 2138 cedar st.  233-5065.
a report on the ongoing controversy, which has gone through several studies and hearings, filled nearly 400 pages in last tuesday’s council packet.
at st. paul, self-expression often means singing and dancing.
“it’s a huge group of people working around the country  on free software, which is a very important issue,” he says, quiet  enthusiasm evident in his voice.
i don’t think anyone [on the agenda committee] has any  plans—i certainly don’t—to hold any reports back from the  council.
however, “we need to implement the strategic plan.”
to a big  female cooper’s, a small male sharpshin would look a lot like lunch.
but you can still watch the traffic in and out of  the nest tree, and listen to the adults’ nasal “kek kek kek”  calls.
jutta emphasizes  that her artistic floral tributes are based on deep emotional appreciation of  the music.
for information call fred garvey, 925-682-1111, ext.
“all the lip service is there, but there isn’t a lot of follow-through right now,” said robin kibby, 30, who has lived in the university avenue corridor for seven years.
www.bpf.org overeaters anonymous meets every friday at 1:30 p.m. at the northbrae church at solano and the alameda.
liquid ambers and gingkos are, from my  perspective, welcome stalwarts of berkeley’s color scene, reliably  providing brilliant reds, oranges, and yellows at this time of year.
meditation, peace vigil and dialogue, gather at noon on the grass close to the west entrance to uc berkeley, on oxford st. near university ave.
during that meeting the board unanimously designated  the property a “nuisance,” and clearly stated that abatement should  be the course of action.
by j. douglas allen-taylor tuesday  december 02, 2003 berkeley city council crafted a possible solution to the lingering public  safety building antennae tower controversy tuesday night, holding off  threatened legal action by downtown area residents.
although residents want more small community-oriented business, myers  said, it’s difficult to attract them because of inflated lease rates and  property values.
going door-to-door can sometimes give police more than just a sense of  satisfaction.
you may have already noticed that on some of berkeley’s major  commercial streets, including shattuck avenue, replacing evergreen street trees  with deciduous species has been the trend in recent years.
a downtown berkeley hotel offers the city’s cash-starved government the chance for lucrative 12 percent transient occupancy tax revenues, which mayor tom bates estimates could run as high as $1 million annually.
i need platform shoes and multiple tattoos.
it might not sound like much, but this year marz has an escape—at least for part of the year—at a new shelter called yeah!, which stands for youth emergency assistance hostel.
some state universities have opted to voluntarily place their hotels on the tax rolls.
even with the sales tax revenues, kagen said,  he probably couldn’t salvage services already on the chopping block,  though the funds could help sustain highland’s emergency room and trauma  center.
the thought of the increase in car volume  resulting from this potential underground parking lot is unbearable.
when pressed, he amended his statement to include just “editorials” and “letters,” not news articles per se.
seckel, bartlett,  and 6-in-1 espaliers, varieties suited to local growing conditions.
chamber music sundaes, san francisco symphony musicians and friends perform  beethoven trio, debussy and beethoven cello sonatas, vaughan williams quintet  at 3:15 p.m. at st. john’s presbyterian church, 2727 college ave.
the daily planet received first drafts of two different commentaries which attempted to set the record straight, from local activist writers who later withdrew the pieces, again because they feared political retaliation.
in this country, so  many people are voting against someone.”
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu music and dance a cornucopia concert for thanksgiving, 17th century music, performed on period instruments by tekla cunningham and anthony martin, baroque violins, and jonathan shane davis, harpsichord, at 8 p.m. at musicsources, 1000 the alameda, at marin.
“but i just wanted to be there when reverend williams came back for his first service.”
almost certainly he would have been arrested; but mohamed insisted that the  rcmp put in a phone call to his fbi handler.
here’s another perspective: one underground parking space costs  $40,000!
published  accounts of the ensuing six-week strike reported that strikers divided over  whether or not to give students grades, with many acquiescing to the  university’s urgings and others giving out marks of “in  progress”.
“we want this to  serve the short-term visiting needs of scholars and family members,” he  said.
and suddenly, at the last minute, they pull the  rug out from under us.”
the suspect is described as a black male,  25-30 years old, approximately six feet, 170 pounds with short hair, an  unshaven face, a mustache, and dark, possibly decayed, front teeth.
the owner of the property lives out of town.
county officials estimate the tax would generate $90 million annually,  with 75 percent earmarked for the alameda county medical center—whose  budget deficit has exploded to $86 million from $45.7 million in june.
“a lot of our folks have roles scheduling finals and finding rooms for finals, so there could be a lot problems for the university,” said cue president claudia horning.
free smoke detectors for city residents and uc berkeley students who live off-campus.
this new project can help solve the traffic congestion problems downtown, not add to them.
becky o’malley is executive editor of the berkeley daily planet.
the rules that are being broken in our area can be broken in the rest of berkeley, despite more stringent zoning.”
no citizen should be required to work so hard to fix a problem that should be addressed by the agencies who exist to protect the health, safety and the well being of all neighborhoods.
www.bcco.org mimosas and music, a recital of 17th century german, italian and french music at 11 a.m. at giorgi gallery, 2911 claremont ave.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu “to be or not to be,” 1942 classic with jack benny at 2 p.m. at  the jewish community center, 1414 walnut st. $2.
council also directed city attorney manuela albuquerque to investigate whether berkeley should join in a lawsuit against gov. schwarzenegger for lowering the state vehicle license fee (vlf).
acton court “is the poster child for what the avenue can become under current zoning,” he said.
i wish to correct the suggestion in the article that animal shelter  supporters have rejected other sites for scant reason.
tabor said she’s delighted to see williams follow in his father’s footsteps and feels that with his return, great and new things are going to happen in the church.
eight years later, their opera four saints became a sensation, an infamous cultural event in its time, and the longest-running opera in broadway history to date.
the deadline for applications in dec. 15.
(“red tape snares animal shelter,” daily planet, nov. 25-27).
additionally, in the second phase of the project, uc would pay to move the pacific film archive, berkeley art museum and phoebe hearst anthropology museum to uc-owned buildings just east of the hotel development.
a uc pundit, with cooperation from official sources, authored a glowing description of berkeley’s purported budget surplus which was widely and approvingly reprinted in the progressive press.
bring paper, pencils, and ideas for working out a sketch for your garden and photographs if possible.
high-speed, injury-accident police auto chases are a growing concern in this country.
the cyclist held tight, and when she started yelling the two youths and a companion fled the scene.
“i was interested in software and abstractions, so i got into  programming at 14 as an escape form small town thinking.
see listing for nov. 29.
st. john’s prime timers meets at 9:30 a.m. at st. john’s presbyterian church, 2727 college ave.
but in at least one case, university ownership delivered exactly the opposite.
the only deaths have occurred after drivers have  raced away from police rolling up on the events.
the compromise was passed after councilmembers were assured that the replacement pole would only be studied, with no commitment from council to do anything more until the city’s present budget crisis is over.
film “effaced” and “jenin, jenin” at 7 p.m. at 340  stephens hall.
since the planned hotel will be just outside city limits  on county land, the university agreed to downsize the project to lessen the  potential loss to davis’ hotel tax revenues.
she’d methodically pick the chocolate off  the bar, joyfully ingest it, then dump the halvah into the trash.
dominos delivers, even when robbed a dominos pizza delivery man was robbed at gunpoint while walking back to his car after fulfilling an order saturday evening on the 1500 block of prince street.
the santa cruz  city council was warned in late 2001, maybe earlier, that declining state  revenues would require substantial cuts, so they went right to work on trying  to figure out what to do.
berkeley’s not boston.
they become very supportive, unshakable.
handsome harvesting baskets.
by 1935 the church boasted more than 70 members and the following year  moved into a larger building at 1630 fairview st.
officers saw mr. brown’s mustang again at 87th and international “but again brown took off at speeds exceeding 70 mph (according to the chronicle, again) and the pursuit was dropped (again according to chp officials).
that training, according to author george crile, author of charlie wilson's  war, about the cia's arming of islamists during the afghan war, even included  “urban terror, with instruction in car bombings, bicycle bombings, camel  bombings, and assassination.”
manuel hector, 981-5510.
but you can still watch the traffic in and out of the nest tree, and listen to the adults’ nasal “kek kek kek” calls.
kears said a county detox center—long sought by berkeley homeless  advocates— would likely be a top priority.
last week williams was busy visiting the sick, preparing for the  church’s annual revival and anniversary celebration and planning a trip  back to kansas city to complete his move from that city to berkeley.
but on one point he reveals some wishful thinking, shared, i’m afraid, by too many of our fellow citizens.
sunday, nov. 30 berkeley artisans open studios for a map of participating studios call  845-2612.
a short field trip to a functioning house/system in berkeley and  current catalog of available equipment are also included.
transit has faced increasing challenges, required more and more subsidies, and been compelled to reduce service.
if jutta’s not familiar with the composer’s work,  she reads up on it and listens to it, so that the bouquet can symbolize what  the piece expresses.
he told the daily planet’s reporter that articles about opposition to the proposed parcel tax were responsible for the decision not to put it on the march ballot.
www.calperfs.berkeley.edu berkeley ballet theater, “the nutcracker,” at 7 p.m. at julia  morgan center for the arts.
for information call 845-9066.
i think what the city can afford to put in they have been able to put in.”
she made holiday arts bazaar, with a silent auction to benefit the  women’s daytime drop-in center, from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. at pro arts  gallery, 461 ninth st. oakland.
the proposed parcel tax would have made up for something less than half of what has been estimated to be a $15 million to $20 million city budget deficit within five years.
berkeley liberation radio 104.1 fm holds public meetings for all interested people first and third thursdays, 7 p.m. at the long haul info shop, 3124 shattuck ave.
poole’s particularly fascinated with wikis (the word’s an  hawaiian term meaning “quickie”), the increasingly popular  user-built website, of which the best known is wikipedia.com, an encyclopedia  written entirely by website visitors.
this versatile digger has a hand-forged 7” curved iron blade that resembles a small plough and can be used to mound, to level, to weed, to cut furrows, and to tamp down newly planted seeds and plants.
planning commissioner rob wrenn said there’s a potential conflict between the state requirements and the original plan were it to be implemented—specifically with the decreasing density between the high concentration “nodes” which the plan mandates.
“follow the star …” an exhibit of over 250  crèches from 70 countries, from noon to 3 p.m. at st. clement’s
at 7 p.m. at first congregational church of oakland, 2501 harrison st. 704-5293.
the article “newest shelter helps the young homeless” (daily  planet, nov. 28-dec.1) incorrectly reported that the army base shelter in west  oakland has a reserved area for families.
bay area poets coalition holds an open reading from 3 to 5 p.m. at the  south branch berkeley public library, 1901 russell st. 527-9905.
guided tour: gene(sis): contemporary art explores human genomics, at 2 p.m., berkeley art museum, 2626 bancroft way.
traffic whizzes by empty storefronts on a thoroughfare that’s still heavily car-oriented, still relatively anonymous.
“funding amounts have changed since then.
the city has  rebuilt the median strips along the avenue and is now completing the  landscaping.
“hyenas laughed at me and now i know why” with editor larry habegger, tales of trouble on the road at 7:30 p.m. at easy going bookstore, 1385 shattuck ave at rose.
the players are so good they’re scary, and they keep coming  up with the goods year after year.
floyd said this is just one example of how williams plans to increase st.  paul’s community outreach.
but  when i started reading my classmates’ short stories i realized that there  was more to this class than just changing “i” to  “priscilla.”
the dangers of drinking and driving need not be explained to the average american adult.
a superb one-stop hand tool for vegetable and flower  beds.
those things might begin to resonate in the next few months, and people could decide they want their civil rights back, that they’re not willing to give them up to become the aggressors of the planet.”
we are a few slowpoke seniors who walk between a  mile or two each tuesday, meeting at 9:30 a.m. in the little farm parking lot.
some councilmembers had argued that even if the larger tower was  improperly erected, the present lean economic times made it impossible for the  city to correct the problem by tearing down a “perfectly good  communications tower.”
asked about the timing of the strike, mehta blamed the university and said  the interests of the union’s members had to come first.
meanwhile hufferd insisted that the hotel would not offer special deals to university groups that could diminish the city’s hotel tax revenue.
smooth, trigger action feels good in the hand.
from madagascar, this wonderfully bizarre plant grows in a fanlike shape with a finely textured, silvery-green, almost iridescent surface, topped with a leafy green fringe.
meetings once a  month.
“it’s important to understand these problems aren’t a  case of bad management,” kears said.
the first flush: canoe outing with save the bay in oakland what are the  first of the winter rains carrying into our bay?
these include scharffen berger, droste, valrhona, green & black and  san francisco’s popular ghiardelli.
maybe a little dangerous,  too.
the exhibit brought back the most vivid memory i have of my first day in berkeley: walking through sather gate and seeing an indian woman in a sari coming toward me.
i don’t believe in raising property taxes on the ever struggling us middle and lower classes or poorer small business.
council  also required that nothing would be spent for outside consultants on the  upcoming study without council’s specific say-so.
“patting ourselves on the back about what we did in the church just won’t do it.”
reports from berkeley’s 23 citizen commissions can be controversial themselves.
berkeley beat officers nominate the recipients, who are reviewed by the department’s special enforcement unit to ensure that everyone is deserving.
“we realize students will be hurt by this, but the university has continued to break the law and put this on themselves.”
parts are replaceable.
uc berkeley undergraduate students seemed miffed at the timing of the  strike.
according to police, the victim was walking along the 1900 block of  woolsey street when the pair raced up behind him.
2 aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for  dec. 1.
but davis city manager jim antonen complimented uc for addressing his  city’s concerns.
sol rebelz and occupied thought perform hip hop at 9:30 p.m. at blakes on telegraph.
were there hundreds of people out in a crowd, there,  watching?
flu vaccinations are $20 and pneumonia vaccinations are $25, from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. at pharmaca integrative 1744 solano ave.
on the same evening council withdrew a proposed parcel tax hike, the alameda county board of supervisors voted unanimously to place a half-penny tax increase on the march ballot to bail out cash-strapped public medical facilities.
what if  all downtown travelers benefited from this diversion of parking money, so that  transit improved for everyone, and downtown automobile congestion decreased  overall as a result of this project?
the weblog was up and running within two weeks, and the wiki followed soon afterwards.
mr. geller lives in an urban part of town, on a major bus route.
the road has been paved, both in massachusetts and california, for gay  marriage to be legally recognized.
liquid ambers and gingkos are, from my perspective, welcome stalwarts of berkeley’s color scene, reliably providing brilliant reds, oranges, and yellows at this time of year.
www.beckettsirishpub.com saturday, nov. 29 children dan zanes & friends perform roots music for the entire family at 2 p.m. at zellerbach hall, uc campus.
we  can bellweather a progressive planning trend in mid-sized us metros.
you see, berkeley has a vocal contingent of residents who believe that  “fall color” is a necessary element of the autumn season and should  be constantly increased.
you’ve got truffles, puddings (kozy shack deserves kudos), brownies, ice  cream and gelato, fudge, confections, spreads (e.g., nutella), sauces,  liqueurs, cigars and kisses, to list a few.
first, no one coming to a conference from fresno, modesto, san  jose, santa cruz, or santa rosa is going to fly.
going door-to-door can sometimes give police more than just a sense of satisfaction.
(don’t even think about stealing this paper!)
poetry express, featuring diana quartermaine, from 7 to 9:30 p.m., at priya restaurant, 2072 san pablo ave.
by matthew artz friday november 28, 2003 carjacking and sexual assault police are searching for the knife-wielding man who forced his way into a  woman’s car tuesday morning car and sexually assaulted her before  releasing her in oakland.
but if japanese-american friendships survived the second world war, perhaps friendships being made by students in berkeley today will survive the current unpleasantness.
lastly but not leastly, larry ochs, fred frith, and miya masaoka will be  at the free gallery, 2575 bancroft way between college and telegraph in  berkeley at 6:00 p.m. on thursday dec. 4.
film yasujiro ozu: “tokyo story” at 3:30, 6:40, and 9:20 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
and the  chase was not always triggered by sight of the quarry: four hawks staged  surprise attacks on empty feeders, which must have been productive in the past.
leyden said last year’s shelter was so successful that they were able to re-open this year with even more support, though with an estimated budget of $60,000 they’re still short $25,000.
at 3 and 7 p.m. and “the brothers and sisters of toda” at 4:35 and 8:30 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
the landmark case that originated in los angeles when  andrea perez, who was white, filed a marriage certificate with sylvester davis,  who was black, changed racist and exclusionary marriage laws, finding them  unconstitutional by the california supreme court.
“follow the star …” an exhibit of over 250 crèches from 70 countries, from 5 to 8 p.m. at st. clement’s episcopal church 2837 claremont blvd.
stiff-leaved, rosettaed  plants.
if it’s successful, then we can expand it to provide a lot more services for our people.”
i wish to correct the suggestion in the article that animal shelter supporters have rejected other sites for scant reason.
city staffers blame a slumping economy and in-house turnover, while many  residents blame the city’s interpretation of a state affordable housing  law that allows developers to avoid height limits, parking mandates and other  design features.
come see our scuba diving, backpacking  or camping pictures, at 7:30 p.m. at epworth united methodist church, 1953  hopkins st. 525-6058.
strawberry creek work party we'll be planting and putting down erosion  control material on the creek bank.
officers must use vacation time to cover the ride, and they pay the $125 expenses out of their own pockets, but it’s all worth it when they get to hand out the meals.
the commission report proposal and other suggested changes to agenda  committee procedures are scheduled to be discussed by the agenda committee  again dec. 1.
berkeley, on the other hand, went on believing that the future was rosy  for much too long.
free energy bill payment assistance the city of berkeley has money to help  low-income households pay their gas and electric bills.
cost  is $13 in advance, $15 at the door.
anyway, it seems the yen for stuff covered with chocolate is universal,  from chocolate-covered matzohs to chocolate-covered crickets.
center  street is a transit corridor, a gateway to the uc campus, and an essential  pressure-relief valve for a downtown that’s already too congested.
in 1993, the year of mogadishu, mohamed was picked up by the royal canadian mounted police in canada in the company of an al qaeda terrorist.
we have three distinct problems that often get interrelated—by the police, the public, and the press.
instead of standing in line in a big  gymnasium, i stood in line in cyberspace and got none of my first or second  choices in classes.
what would the creek do to  underground parking?
“just between you and me,” summers wrote,” shouldn’t the world bank be encouraging more migration of the dirty industries to the less developed countries?
“it’s really been an amazing thing to see the  response.”
www.freight-andsalvage.org “jah music for the people” at the 1923 teahouse at 8 p.m. suggested donation of $7-$15.
piñata  and snacks follow performance.
pet adoptions, sponsored by home at last, from noon to 5 p.m., hearst and 4th st. 548-9223.
tabor said she doesn’t really mind the changes, because she knows  they’re necessary to keep the church alive.
let’s hear a plan to better clean up and protect the creek’s  exposed portion—not to endanger its safe underground stretch.
suggested donation $15, this is a  fund-raiser to bring the church lighting up to code.
“in terms of the basic bottom line, the most powerful force in berkeley is the staff.
robinson has been a member for 29 years.
i  have to agree with tom brown (letters, daily planet, nov. 28-dec. 1) that  underground parking is not environment friendly or cost effective.
it’s not like we’re changing the course of the yangtze here!
options include the shelter at the old army base in west oakland, which has 50 beds reserved for people from berkeley.
the image of a “babbling brook,” mentioned by steve geller in  his letter, on the hotel grounds, and center street restaurants being creek  side is an oasis-like mirage in this metropolitan area.
“that takes various forms.
on tuesday, berkeley police, for the nineteenth consecutive year, put the service back into “to protect and serve,” handing out 250 thanksgiving dinners to families in need throughout berkeley—all earned by the blood, sweat and quadriceps of 11 officers on bikes.
or buy the gardener’s paperwhite kit that includes bulbs, pebbles, a green ceramic dish and instructions.
it sounds like this is what’s going on with the hawks that use my driveway.
“there’s so much enthusiasm on working on new plans, [but] we don’t have enough staff to work on new plans and do implementation of new plans.
ecology center, 2530 san pablo ave, near dwight way.
but now, st. paul has a music ministry that has musicians who play everything from the flute and saxophone to drums and bass.
donations benefit building restoration fund.
now here was a narrative  i’d be able to critique with knowledge and fairness.
www.ashkenaz.com simon stinger, castles in spain, hazerfan at 9:30 p.m. at blakes on  telegraph.
at 7 p.m. at first congregational church of oakland, 2501 harrison st.  704-5293.
until sept. 1, i hadn’t been back on a college campus in 32  years.
beautiful, sun-loving plant with deep green, red-rimmed leaves (like those of a fig tree), deep pink stems and veins.
there are, of course, multitudes of other chocolate wonders for sale.
moreover, matching grants for capital improvements have dried  up the past couple of years, following the recession.
a hearing was later scheduled oct. 5 before the zoning adjustments board.
• versatile asian hand cultivator.
they disliked her so much they didn’t want to read further.
council passed a broad budget crisis recovery strategy proposal  co-sponsored by bates and councilmembers gordon wozniak, linda maio, and miriam  hawley that calls for such belt-tightening measures as a “hard hiring  freeze” for city employees and a moratorium on all new city  expenditures.
it’s not the route we want to  pursue.
tickets are $18 and are available from  843-4698.
floyd said this is just one example of how williams plans to increase st. paul’s community outreach.
all were denied, and thus began their adventure working to legalize gay marriage.
it sounds red,  doesn’t it?
a similar tactic to that which matt gonzalez correctly proposes for sfo.
oakland opera theater, “four saints in three acts,” at 2 and 7 p.m.
for the past three decades i’ve heard well-meaning people suggest  less reliance on cars and more on public transit.
specifically, following my bar mitzvah, at which i received a  half-dozen wristwatches, i had far too much time on my hands.
at 9 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
students report endless hassles  from u.s. consular employees when they apply for visas, even in countries like  china with very little logical connection to fears of terrorism.
tabor said she has never once thought about leaving st. paul.
i think the  sunlight issue is easily addressed by use of japanese sunflower fiber-optic or  similar technology that pipes sunlight san uv’s wherever it is needed.
“it’s wonderful to have history when you can look back and see  what god has done,” williams said to the sunday morning worshipers.
to  traditionalist falconers, these three species would be true hawks (as opposed  to falcons, buzzards, harriers).
behold ex-scientist wozzlebrain on monday.
“the media’s corrupt.
gardeners, especially rose gardeners, love it.
“voices from the edge” and “the favela goes to the world  social forum” and discussion with brazilian filmmakers daniela broitman  and fernando salis, at 7:30 p.m. at la peña cultural center.
it happens to everyone,” said marz, one of the many young transients who consistently line telegraph avenue.
sponsored by the international solidarity  movement.
they  enjoy the blessings of nature—a climate that is exceptionally congenial  to horticultural pursuits—and the blessings of commerce—an uncommon  number of first-rate, one-of-a-kind, locally owned gardening supply stores.
this is a  significant art deco structure—and the u.n. charter was printed there.
film standby: no technical difficulties: program 4 at 7:30 p.m. at the pacific  film archive.
• winter-blooming (in our winter)
granma tabor said sometimes she wishes the choir would sing more traditional hymns like the ones she grew up singing.
exciting potential editors, daily planet: the hotel and convention center proposed by uc and the mayor of berkeley holds exciting potential for downtown berkeley.
marcy greenhut, president berkeley ecological and safe transportation • misplaced blame editors, daily planet: i thoroughly enjoyed reading that mayor tom bates blames editorials and letters to the editor for the flame-out of the deceptive parcel tax (“mayor kills parcel tax vote after firefighters’ rejection,” daily planet, nov. 25-27).
micallef said the city pays for  bart tickets to the west oakland station and provides a shuttle from there to  the shelter.
bike afrika bring a bike in good working condition or requiring minor parts/repairs and we'll donate it to aids doctors in africa.
what  would underground parking do to the creek?
one way to achieve proportionate and  appropriate taxation on the wealthy is to provide a non-negotiable higher  taxation gradient for more valuable personal and corporate property transfers.
a number already have wheelchair-accessible vehicles that are permitted in other bay area cities.”
accordingly, a one percent aga rent increase (plus an additional $3  per unit per month) was provided for all units that already receive the state  costa-hawkins vacancy decontrol—or full market rent—increase (the  average rent for these units is now $1,220 per month).
building parking spaces is the  no-brainer, default position.
reilly and maloney, contemporary folk duo at 8 p.m. at freight and salvage.
two of berkeley’s keystone native tree species—live oaks and bay laurels—are green year round.
its flowers are shaped like elongated, rosy red bells about three inches long.
film yasujiro ozu: “tokyo story” at 3:30, 6:40, and 9:20 p.m. at the  pacific film archive.
as maio and others point out, state housing law allowing greater density  to bolster financially viable affordable housing development has hamstrung the  city’s plans.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu readings and lectures
it’s a long way from the winding mountain roads of the sierras to  the public safety building, where by 7 a.m. tuesday about 60 volunteers  including city workers, berkeley boosters, and high school students formed a  half-block long assembly line, stuffing boxes with yams, onions, bread, canned  food, stuffing and marshmallows to compliment the main course.
i think most berkeley residents would agree that these preferences are precisely upside-down.
on the council sub committee and at the humane commission, we are very aware of the traditional image of animal shelters as nothing more than warehouses to store and kill unwanted animals.
to the health of  pedestrians?
chanukah bazaar food, gifts, and silent auction, from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. at congregation beth el, 2301 vine st. artists with heart, art show benefit from noon to 6 p.m. at 2033 and 2041 center st. more than 50 artists and community members are donating their work to benefit the individuals and families served by boss (building opportunities for self-sufficiency).
in oklahoma—a state never known as a vibrant hub of culture—the bright youth with the unconventional parents sought solace in technology.
specifically, following my bar mitzvah, at which i received a half-dozen wristwatches, i had far too much time on my hands.
the medical center provides care to the county’s indigent and  uninsured and includes oakland’s highland hospital—which serves the  majority of berkeley trauma and emergency patients and is the lone specialized  medical care option for berkeley’s estimated 9,000-11,000 uninsured  residents.
for information contact 548-0425.
www.thejazzhouse.com total fury, harto, deadfall, cross the line at 5 p.m. at 924 gilman st. cost is $5.
kriss worthington was quoted as saying it could be a wonderful contribution or a horrendous nightmare.
you see, berkeley has a vocal contingent of residents who believe that “fall color” is a necessary element of the autumn season and should be constantly increased.
of the larger trees that once flourished in berkeley’s  natural landscape only buckeyes entirely drop their leaves, and that usually  happens in the dry late summer, well before conventional autumn weather  arrives.
learn how to size, specify and design your own solar electrical generator.
“i promise it won’t be uncomfortable for long,” williams said and then urged the crowd to be excited about what the future holds.
i was concerned for them when the elm succumbed to disease and  was taken down, but the hawks relocated to a sweetgum around the corner.
yuko maruyama, jazz pianist, in a benefit for chez panisse foundation, at 1 p.m. at yoshi's at jack london square, 510 embarcadero west, oakland.
cost is $5-$10 in advance, $12 at the door.
• hoes with nice balance, very sharp blades, oak handles 1-5 feet long, are made by small companies in japan.
until 1948, it was illegal in the united states for a white person to  marry a person of color.
speaking for downtown residents, many of whom signed petitions and filed  appeals against the tower during the past four years, berkeley schoolteacher  zoe kalkanis earlier told city council that neighbors of the public service  building didn’t want to cause the city any financial problems.
for more information, call 527-4099.
second, the underground garage is essential: uc must replace the parking it would remove by destroying its addison/oxford parking structure.
www.ashkenaz.com theater berkeley high school, “you can’t take it with you,” see listing for dec. 6.
corrections tuesday december 02, 2003 in the article “amy goodman praises berkeley 3 at savio  awards,” (daily planet, nov. 25-27), featured lecturer goodman was  incorrectly reported to be the recipient of the mario savio free speech  award.
3 zapatistas turn 20, a benefit celebration for the chiapas support  committee, at 7:30 p.m. at la peña cultural center.
pots, $20-$160; phormiums, 1 gallon $12.95; 5  gallon, $34.95.
the image of a “babbling brook,” mentioned by steve geller in his letter, on the hotel grounds, and center street restaurants being creek side is an oasis-like mirage in this metropolitan area.
various departments are now preparing and submitting their portions of the report to tom myers, the city’s acting manager of the office of economic development, who will compile the final report.
4 theater aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for dec. 1.
5 “the streets are watching” a film by jacob crawford on police  accountability through the eyes of three communities: denver, cincinnati and  berkeley.
berkeley beat officers nominate the recipients, who are reviewed by the  department’s special enforcement unit to ensure that everyone is  deserving.
the flower shop she  started will celebrate its twentieth anniversary on dec. 9.
holiday kwanzaa and christmas gift show to encourage patronage of black  businesses at the oakland marriott convention center, 550-10th street, oakland,  fri. - sun.
“you don’t need any of those things, but your sanity?
with several hundred biographies already listed it has also become an important resource for ccc veterans interested in tracking down old workmates or reliving a part of their history.
the uaw has filed numerous unfair labor practice charges against the  university, which they insist gives them the right to strike despite neither  side declaring an impasse.
their study area was terre haute, indiana, which, dissimilar as it may be to  berkeley in most respects, does sustain its own population of wintering  hawks.
conducted by william ludtke with organist lynn finegan and soloists.
suggested donation of $7-$15.
i’ve also had a plausible report of a pair nesting south of the uc  campus, and others may be around.
tickets are adults $15 in advance, $18 at the door, students $7 in advance, $10 at door.
if we don’t put it on the ballot, we are  going to have to cut a lot of services, and there will be no community voice in  that.”
another excellent choice is ibarra’s traditional mexican hot  chocolate product.
as far as i’m concerned, i learned most of what i need to know in my ninth grade english class.
beginners guide to finding planets and constellations  using an astrological calendar, at 7:30 p.m. at ancient ways, 4075 telegraph  ave, oakland.
in these exchanges that often come to resemble kindergarten conversations,  i’ve come to this conclusion about the motivation of berkeley’s
disability commission chairperson wilcox said that daly city and  watsonville currently have wheelchair-accessible taxis.
let me declare my allegiance right off.
6 children los amiguitos de la peña with derique the high tech clown at 10:30 a.m. at la peña.
in 1999, california created a state domestic partner registry, required  hospitals to extend visitation to domestic partners, and allowed state workers  to receive health benefits for their partners.
berkeley director of public health poki namkung said city-run health centers across the state face similar problems, noting that if gov. schwarzenegger’s proposed 10 percent reduction in medi-cal reimbursements passes, the city’s three clinics stand to lose about $75,000—30 percent of its budget.
on nov. 19, 2003, they and thousands of their gay and lesbian neighbors  arrived at their destination: the state supreme court ruled that it is  unconstitutional to prohibit same-sex couples from marrying because, in the  words of the chief justice, to exclude gays from marriage “is  incompatible with the constitutional principles of respect for individual  autonomy and equality under law.”
the cut-and-hold model keeps the harvest from falling onto the ground and getting bruised or broken.
the african american episcopal church has 7,000 congregations in more than  30 nations, according to the ame church website, but only one site in  berkeley—st. paul.
flu vaccinations are $20 and pneumonia vaccinations are $25, from 1 p.m. to 4  p.m. at pharmaca integrative 1744 solano ave.
“arcadia,” by tom stoppard, performed by maybeck high school.
i read both the article  (“mayor, university set downtown hotel plan,” daily planet, nov.  21-24”) and the letter by steve geller with interest.
www.blakesontelegraph.com original intentions at the 1923 teahouse at 8 p.m. suggested donation of  $7-$15.
arnold schwarzenegger took over sixth largest economy in the world  in a campaign that lasted just six weeks.
uc berkeley undergraduate students seemed miffed at the timing of the strike.
“rally for africa's right to health” at the oakland federal  building, 1301 clay street, from noon to 1:00 p.m.
berkeley city attorney manuela albuquerque said through a spokesperson  that her office was reviewing both hotel tax and property tax law to determine  the city’s legal rights.
one is left to  speculate…) encountered the accident scene on 98th avenue near  interstate 880, authorities said.”
i have no doubt that scarlet oaks blaze vivid red or purple in sharper  climates, but here they can be a profound disappointment as far as fall color  is concerned.
membership consists of the mayor and two councilmembers he appointed, linda maio and miriam hawley.
we also received and printed a lot of letters opposing the tax.
www.gtu.edu/studentgroups/trees sustainable development in cuba slide show and discussion based on  ecotecture editor philip s. wenz’s trip to cuba, at 7 p.m. at the  building education center, 812 page st. donation $10, no one turned away for  lack of funds.
stop a thousand cars in east oakland,  after all, and the odds are you’ve got to come up with at least one that  contains a driver (or a passenger) who might consider shooting somebody,  somewhere, sometime in their life.
st. john’s prime timers meets at 9:30 a.m. at st. john’s  presbyterian church, 2727 college ave.
actually, there’s only a single individual who persists in plying me with presumed tokens of her affection, mon significant amour, la c. over the years, she’s learned edible gifts are least likely to drive me up the wall.
you  don’t suppose he’s serious about these things?
www.accfb.org city of berkeley commissioners sought if you are interested in serving on a  commission, applications can be downloaded from www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/ commissions/general.htm#applications or contact the city clerk, 981-6900.
she made holiday arts bazaar, with a silent auction to benefit the women’s daytime drop-in center, from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. at pro arts gallery, 461 ninth st. oakland.
agenda panel move a teapot tempest?
charles siegel voters not stingy editors, daily planet: i deeply resent mr. artz’s uncalled-for editorial comment about  “berkeley’s increasingly stingy voters” in a purported news  story about the woes of the animal shelter.
one side is the failure to do what could have been done.
another reason why too much fall color is undesirable in berkeley has to  do with the essential fact that fall color means leaves are dropped.
the department has already  completed some crime analysis along the corridor, but the report now in the  works will scrutinize the corridor as a whole.
but under the city manager system and a council which is sometimes quite divided, there is a lot of autonomy
by cachet, i’m thinking not so much of our governator but of berkeley’s very own world class chocolatier, john scharffenberger.
suggested donation $15, this is a fund-raiser to bring the church lighting up to code.
on the contrary: last tuesday this same facetious fellow read a parody of a sophomore research paper purporting to offer a hilariously protracted tangle of statistics as an argument against instant run-off voting.
the central conflict is between the planning department’s belief in smart growth and neighbors’ opposition to denser housing, poschman said.
david heller giving it away editors, daily planet: in a nov. 25 letter, steve geller praises uc’s proposed  hotel/convention/museum megaplex on center street.
there’s a battle going on,” poschman said.
finally, after weeks of visiting the graduate creative writing office and asking permission from professors half my age if i could get into one of their workshops, i settled into three courses: beginning novel, advanced short stories, and the business of writing.
“my god,” growls wozzlebrain, “in just one day i’m  down a full 50 percent!”
“technology controls so much of our lives, and it’s not  healthy to have it all controlled by a few powerful corporations.”
and it’s quite effective, frankly.”
“your money or your life!
that’s still heavily car-oriented, still relatively anonymous.
“my body felt like it was a cushion and my aches felt they was  pins,” she said.
“the planning department contends there’s  a disconnect between the strategic plan and reality.”
film alternative visions: “superior elegy” and “sneak  preview” at 7:30 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
(i rediscovered them when they were la c.’s holiday gift last year.)
the bare facts, as far as they can be pieced together from newspaper  accounts, is that 52-year-old oakland janitor juan martinez was critically  injured last saturday night when the car in which he was driving on 98th avenue  in brookfield village was struck by a car driven by 27-year-old randolph brown.
alec boga, founded the annual bpd turkey ride in 1994—a  three-day, 216-mile september journey to south lake tahoe that raises money to  feed berkeley families on thanksgiving and christmas.
but the police department still hasn’t answered the question planners asked of it: what does crime along the corridor look like and how does it compare to previous years?
to cite several  components: during 2002-03, the peralta community college and east bay regional  park tax assessments both declined by—12.30 percent respectively.
as december approaches the leaves turn a lovely fawn brown and mournfully hang on the tree until some mid-winter storm finally shakes them off.
ongoing we give thanks month, berkeley restaurants, bar-ristorante raphael, cold stone creamery, downtown, la note, semi-freddi’s, skates, and spengers will donate a portion of their proceeds to berkeley food and housing project during the month of november.
free smoke detectors for city residents and uc berkeley students who live  off-campus.
if the measure is passed, county supervisors promise to seek public input on which health programs to fund with the remaining 25 percent of the funds.
offer to run a food drive, or donate healthy nonperishable food at  safeway stores, berkeley bowl and bay street emeryville.
plants love this uv-less light.
from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the building education center, 812 page st. cost is $75.
berkeley director of public health poki namkung said city-run health  centers across the state face similar problems, noting that if gov.  schwarzenegger’s proposed 10 percent reduction in medi-cal reimbursements  passes, the city’s three clinics stand to lose about $75,000—30  percent of its budget.
known for being strong on planning but weak on action, the city of berkeley wanted to create a strategic plan it could actually implement.
though many thought the final product was a good thing, since city council adopted the university avenue strategic plan in november 1996, implementation has dragged, residents and city officials agree.
three organic, hot chocolate brands that caught my eye while browsing shop shelves are dagoba, lake champlain and ah!laska.
handel’s “messiah” sing at 2:30 p.m., first church of christ, scientist, 2619 dwight way.
with technology you can bring light  and connections to people who think they’re alone, so that once  they’re together they realize they can have power.”
oakland opera theater, “four saints in three acts,” an opera by  virgil thomson and gertrude stein, at oakland metro, 201 broadway, at 2nd st.  tickets are $15-$25 and are available from www.oaklandopera.org film yasujiro ozu: “an inn at tokyo” at 7:30 p.m. and “the  only son” at 9:10 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
pottery show and benefit for bay area community resources from 11 a.m. to 5  p.m. at 871 indian rock ave.
it’s a matter of determining priorities.”
“there has been some discussion about having commission stuff come  through the agenda committee,” de vries said, “but in a pretty  limited way.”
“we know that the youth are really attached to their animals,” said leyden.
so do most people who prescribe the bus for others.
the first shock was registration.
but he wants to omit its  underground garage, bring strawberry creek to the surface, and close off center  street as a “pedestrian mall.”
when i was a berkeley tenant activist in the 1970s and 1980s, i was  regularly the target of landlord curses and frequently found death threats left  on my answering machine.
mary ager domestic partner and berkeley resident berkeley city council crafted a possible solution to the lingering public safety building antennae tower controversy tuesday night, holding off threatened legal action by downtown area residents.
now there’s café van kleef  at 1621 telegraph, a classy bistro with live music, art on the walls, and  espresso at the bar.
in an indirect way, the small birds may actually benefit from the predators’ presence.
our correspondents have been  much more forthright with their opinions.
in  an indirect way, the small birds may actually benefit from the predators’
palenque, traditonal cuban son dance music at 7:30 p.m. at ashkenaz.
while a precedent has been set for cities to collect occupancy tax revenue  from university-owned hotels, property taxes usually remain out of reach.
28 children splash circus, “in the magical forest” at 2 p.m. at julia morgan center for the arts, 2640 college ave.
university avenue plan stalled for eight years
from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. at la peña cultural center, 3105 shattuck  ave.
the city also provides a motel voucher program for families in need.
www.connectingthroughdance.org berkeley community chorus and orchestra perform handel’s “messiah” at 8 p.m. at st. joseph the worker church, 1640 addison st. 964-0665.
housing density — who says what’s best for  berkeley famed berkeley home hosts kucinich e-campaign by richard  brenneman friday november 28, 2003 when henry poole met dennis kucinich last may, politics fused with passion  and technological savvy.
www.she-made.com bay area coalition for headwaters 10th anniversary, with food refreshments, music and more.
“all the people in the opposition have to do is say, ‘look, even the people you’re going to fund are not for it.’
yes, evil gift-givers are conspiring to transform me from who i am to who they  want me to be.
one is the spinning of donuts in an automobile in the middle of an intersection.
in case you don’t catch my  drift, dark chocolate is de rigueur!
police said one robber wielded a gun, jumped the counter and demanded money from an employee, who handed over the cash from a safe before the bandits fled out the back door.
they’re in favor of it.
to examine this and other issues, city council requested a plan update  report this past summer.
membership consists of the mayor and two councilmembers he appointed,  linda maio and miriam hawley.
“i believe,” williams said to sunday’s crowd “that the best is yet to come.”
housing density — who says what’s best for berkeley
in this country, so many people are voting against someone.”
of this illustrious lot, my pct reserves her highest accolades for cote  d’or, which she claims is not just palate-pleasing but a powerful  antidepressant (she should know, as in her spare time she’s a  shrink).
for  those of you unfamiliar with brookfield village, that is within easy walking  distance—almost within sight, in fact, though it’s around a bit of  a curve—of the accident scene at denslowe and 98th.
in light of the firestorm in berkeley over a proposed parcel tax, carson said the board would campaign hard for the tax measure and start a mobilization drive to get supporters to the polls.
• cool-looking cyclist-designed gardening gloves made by west county  gardener afford exceptional dexterity and tactility.
this would be an unimaginably costly, disruptive, and uncertain undertaking for a city government that is (a) broke and (b) incapable of keeping even small public works projects within schedules or budgets.
if, as suggested in the article, the transformation includes museums, and, as mentioned by dona spring, daylighting of strawberry creek, it could be phenomenal.
at 7 p.m. at the ecology center, 2530 san pablo ave, near dwight way.
for a really green christmas, get a living spruce, cypress or cedar christmas tree.
reserve  plants now; their arrival in january will chase away the post-holiday blahs and  conjure up the coming, bountiful season.
no talks are scheduled before the end of the semester.
councilmembers wozniak and maio expressed concern that the tax  measure couldn’t pass without a major campaign effort, and neither one  said they could imagine how such a campaign could now be generated, given the  depth of community opposition.
typically,  humanities students who receive less independent funding than science students  are more likely to strike.
cost is $17.50 in advance, $18.50 at the door.
“it’s nice to drive up in a police car and give something to  somebody,” agnew said.
for information call internship manager garrett dempsey at 286-1670 or e-mail your resume and any questions to garrett.dempsey@asm.ca.gov.
williams had a special reason to rejoice.
united auto workers local 2865, which represents approximately 13,000  university of california student teachers, graders and tutors (ases), most of  them graduate students, called for the system-wide strike monday, claiming the  administration has bargained in bad faith.
tickets are $18 and are available from 843-4698.
“one picture is being  painted, but the buildings we’re getting are completely  different.”
these aren’t political differences, however.
“i wish i could share her enthusiasm.
tuesday’s scene was especially gratifying for the cyclists who got off to a tough start on this year’s ride.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/energy city meetings commission on the status of women meets wed., dec. 3, at 7:30 p.m., at the  north berkeley senior center.
and to meet those needs, floyd said, st. paul has had to become more contemporary in various areas—even down to the type of music played during sunday morning services.
buildings weren’t  more than two or three stories tall except in highly concentrated  “nodes” where a four-story maximum of retail and affordable housing  existed.
coupled with increased expenses for employee benefits and drugs and reductions  in government aid—including a $7 million cut from a federal program  aiding public hospitals—the center has struggled to balance its books,  said spokesperson rachel kagen.
writer’s room needs volunteers to help students improve their writing and critical thinking skills.
but wouldn’t they also take  advantage of the smorgasbord of finches and sparrows attracted to bird  feeders?
“buck up!” says the poet.
it has been the site of an arson fire, a haven for prostitution, and the location of numerous altercations over bad business dealings.
chanukah bazaar food, gifts, and silent auction, from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. at  congregation beth el, 2301 vine st. artists with heart, art show benefit from noon to 6 p.m. at 2033 and 2041  center st. more than 50 artists and community members are donating their work  to benefit the individuals and families served by boss (building opportunities  for self-sufficiency).
her  father is old, she said, and was originally from algeria.
www.thejazzhouse.com collective amnesia at 8:30 p.m. at downtown.
berkeley camera club meets at 7:30 p.m., at the northbrae community church, 941
film yasujiro ozu: “late spring”at 2 and 7 p.m. and “an autumn afternoon” at 4:10 and 9:10 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
“no one wants low-income housing in their neighborhood, so it gets  dumped on university avenue,” he said.
“images of mary in art: the black madonna” with china galland,  director of the images of divinity project at the center for arts, education  and religion at the graduate theological union, at 7:30 p.m. at all souls  episcopal church, 2220 cedar st. 848-1755.
i hadn’t a  clue what song lyrics or bands my classmates were referring to, what movie  scenes they were emulating, what authors they were copying, what drugs their  characters were taking.
when one of the students handed in a story about a young woman going to  college in the 70s i breathed a sigh of relief.
imagine if that money were spent to educate and promote available transit to travelers.
but instead of renting rooms to visiting parents  or alums, the university turned most of it into student housing.
louise francis, 46, lives on berkeley way, two lots from tune-up masters.
marz, who has been on the berkeley streets for six months, had his sick spell and says he’s now developed immunities.
a large (18” diameter) lethal golden pincushion studded with 2” long spikes.
film yasujiro ozu: “what did the lady forget?”
budget cuts will now have to take care of the entire  deficit.
“hyenas laughed at me and now i know why” with editor larry  habegger, tales of trouble on the road at 7:30 p.m. at easy going bookstore,  1385 shattuck ave at rose.
the rich are obligated as community members to balance the scales  wherever they live or do business officially.
the american  president is a man who had never left the country until he was elected, and who  now travels isolated in military jets wearing soldier suits he hasn’t  even earned.
just for kicks i did a search to see what the history department was  offering.
• lapageria rosea, chilean bellflower, is the national flower of chile and would make a very special gift for a true plant connoisseur.
on the other hand, there are those who believe that berkeley’s natural color this time of year is, and should primarily remain, green.
raising revenues need be neither  painful nor unjust.
“intelligence & empire” with marshall windmiller, retired  professor of international relations at san francisco state univ.
roth and lima suggest that the small fry were just not worth the effort it would have taken to catch them.
it’s a distinction that is a source of pride to  many of its members.
“the church is not there to condemn people for whatever choices they make,” floyd said.
offer to run a food drive, or donate healthy nonperishable food at safeway stores, berkeley bowl and bay street emeryville.
the display cases are filled with memorabilia going back almost 75 years  since the house opened: a letter of recommendation for canadian
stein can be seen  (though credit is rarely given her) as a forerunner of john ashbery, james  tate, james merrill—those contemporary poets who “tell it  slant,” as virginia woolf used to say.
the tribune gives the last moments  before the crash a slightly different take, saying that the chp officers  “canceled the pursuit at 98th avenue and san leandro street.”
high-speed, injury-accident police auto chases are a growing concern in  this country.
rangers to see habitat restoration work.
she’d methodically pick the chocolate off the bar, joyfully ingest it, then dump the halvah into the trash.
“[our current fiscal crisis] shouldn’t stop us from doing the right  thing when we’re able to do it.”
it’s time to take our city  back—not give more of it away.
“we can’t just do our work within our walls,” said  floyd, who works as the church’s public-relations officer.
real darn soon, in other words, so stick this paper in your pocket and get on the train.
other programs, including the berkeley food and housing project, continue  to run year-round food and housing projects and conduct emergency services,  such as coat and blanket drives.
we need not reinvent the wheel.
www.berkeleyballet.org berkeley city ballet, “the nutcracker,” at 1 and 5 p.m. at zellerbach playhouse, uc berkeley campus.
at least two of the u.s. black hawk helicopters that crashed in iraq recently were brought down by the same sophisticated technique—by taking out the ship's vulnerable tail rotor with a rocket-propelled grenade (rpg).
two eye-catchers among many: euphorbia obesa.
another project he’s working on with catherine fitts—a former  assistant secretary of housing and urban development in the clinton  administration—is whereisthemoney.org.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/ commissions/peaceandjustice youth commission meets mon., dec. 1, at 6:30 p.m., at 1730 oregon st. philip harper-cotton, 981-6670.
eucalyptus, acacia  and melalucas are all good examples.
“this  is a blessing for me,” ruby evans said.
erc@ecologycenter.org
by jakob schiller friday november 28, 2003 “the first time you sleep on the streets you become obnoxiously ill  within two weeks.
supervisor keith carson said he hoped an independent financial audit due out next week will uncover possible savings to preserve services slated for the chopping block.
but maio says  it’s now time for the city to finally move forward on the plan.
resembles a living golfball; and astrophytum myriostigma: a miniaturized, pale green version that evokes its common name, bishop’s mitre.
sex has some effect on prey size, though.
in 1953, st. paul moved to its current location at 2024 ashby ave.
in good time for the holidays, the bot garden’s next plant sale will  be on saturday, dec. 6, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. and will feature an interesting  selection of indoor and outdoor plants, all propagated by volunteer  horticulturalists.
but the central failure, others say, is berkeley’s  inability to rezone.
escaping trial by a negotiated plea, he was in a u.s. prison as late as 2001.
an information report for the agenda committee proposed changes is scheduled to  be presented to city council at council’s dec. 9 meeting.
lemurs like to jump on this plant’s thick stem, which grows to 6 feet and is covered with little green heart-shaped leaves growing in vertical rows amidst substantial spines.
there are no courses dedicated to the history of the 60s and 70s.
two rounds of cutbacks earlier this year totaling $23.5 million resulted in 150 layoffs, closure of two outpatient clinics, increased patient co-payments as well as a call to deny non-emergency care to indigents.
it’s a long way from the winding mountain roads of the sierras to the public safety building, where by 7 a.m. tuesday about 60 volunteers including city workers, berkeley boosters, and high school students formed a half-block long assembly line, stuffing boxes with yams, onions, bread, canned food, stuffing and marshmallows to compliment the main course.
“i don’t see them lining  up.”
nonetheless, he says,  it’s become increasingly difficult to survive as the temperature drops  and the rain starts.
but it was the mayor who was most disinclined to keep the parcel tax  alive.
kriss worthington was quoted as saying it could be a wonderful  contribution or a horrendous nightmare.
berkeley just doesn’t have those on a reliably regular basis.
we’d been told that the chp had been called in by oakland officials to help out with oakland’s soaring murder rate, but maybe that’s what they’re doing, on the sly.
music and dance concert for dignity and clothing drive to benefit operation dignity and  their homeless services at 7:30 p.m. at imusicast, 5429 telegraph ave.
the i-house exhibit is a touching reminder  of what has been accomplished in 75 years, against all odds, by dedicated  internationalists determined to rise above the periodic eruptions of national  strife.
finally, uc should not own the hotel property—mr. geller seems to  agree with me here—and the hotel should rise no higher than the downtown  plan’s allowed five to seven stories.
“this is the day that the lord has made.
“we rely a lot on graduate students to learn the material,” said uc berkeley senior megan thornton.
“we’ll be better organized for sure,” said uaw local  spokesperson rajan mehta, adding that strikers planned to place a picket line  outside the tang health center so “nurses will have something not to  cross.”
642-9988 www.berkeleycityballet.org rose street art meets rose street music with a concert by irina rivkin and maria quiles at 6 p.m. at boadecia’s books, 398 colusa ave., kensington.
as for white chocolate, my pct says it’s fine if you enjoy the taste of suntan lotion.
reds: they have an idealized view of fall as it’s experienced in the  american northeast and they want it here, too.
the thought of the increase in car volume resulting from this potential underground parking lot is unbearable.
“it’s hard to have a nice holiday when you can’t afford a turkey.”
uc berkeley senior planner and project manager kevin hufferd said the santa cruz scenario wouldn’t happen in berkeley.
a list of shining stars from recent years would include peter apfelbaum, will bernard, dave ellis, rodney franklin, kito gamble, benny green, david murray, lenny pickett, josh redman, michael wolff, and hitomi oba.
people of all traditions are welcome to join us.
especially in the pre-christmas season, the store reminds people  who’ve been to germany of that country’s elegant florists, which  carry not only cut flowers but plants, pots, and many small entertaining  decorative objects.
415-262-0272 or tickets@calbach.org sweet honey in the rock, female a cappella group, at 8 p.m. at zellerbach  hall, uc campus.
berkeley liberation radio 104.1 fm holds public meetings for all interested  people first and third thursdays, 7 p.m. at the long haul info shop, 3124  shattuck ave.
and to meet those needs, floyd said, st. paul has  had to become more contemporary in various areas—even down to the type of  music played during sunday morning services.
• sweeten the season with sasanqua camellias: fragrant, winter-blooming, pink, white, or rose-colored flowers.
he said he might do some  things differently from former pastors such as the order of service.
in july, after the supervisors reduced the authority of former ceo kenneth cohen—who they blamed for failing to implement cuts when revenues first started evaporating and then proposing cuts far too drastic—five center trustees voted to fire cohen and then quit in protest, citing frustration with the supervisors.
he sent child protective services to remove the children for a few weeks,  and came back around to check up after they returned.
stein left oakland for paris while  still in her teen years, and in 1926 teamed up with another american expat,  composer virgil thomson.
st. paul’s celebrates 70th anniversary by javacia n.  harris special to the planet friday november 28, 2003 “let your hair down, roll your sleeves up and let’s praise the  lord,” rev. allen l. williams told his congregation at st. paul african  methodist episcopal church.
the owner of the property lives out  of town.
it’s not the route we want to pursue.
“follow the star …” an exhibit of over 250 crèches from 70 countries, from noon to 3 p.m. at st. clement’s episcopal church 2837 claremont blvd.
it’s not now charming, pastoral or particularly interesting.
“let your hair down, roll your sleeves up and let’s praise the lord,” rev. allen l. williams told his congregation at st. paul african methodist episcopal church.
tests had revealed the two  differed by three percent (one misfired six percent of the time, the other nine  percent).
free food, music, fun, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at smokey joe’s restaurant, corner of cedar and shattuck.
www.blakesontelegraph.com jp orbit at the 1923 teahouse at 8 p.m. suggested donation of $7-$15, no one turned away for lack of funds.
carol denney • rolling back the clock editors, daily planet: i was stunned at tuesday night’s berkeley city council meeting when councilman gordon wosniak, in a 12-minute attack against irv, suggested that had irv been in effect when abraham lincoln ran against stephen douglas, douglas would have won.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu readings and lectures joe sacco introduces his graphic novel, “the fixer,” about war correspondents at 7:30 p.m. at cody’s books. 845-7852.
“we’ve certainly lost about $200,000 in revenue,” said santa cruz finance director david culver, adding that the hotel brought in as much as $500,000 in taxes for the city in 2000 at the tail end of the economic boom.
you’ve got truffles, puddings (kozy shack deserves kudos), brownies, ice cream and gelato, fudge, confections, spreads (e.g., nutella), sauces, liqueurs, cigars and kisses, to list a few.
the online civilian conservation corps museum is seeking the stories about  the cccs, ccc enrollees, staff, or technical advisors for publication to this  online historical resource.
ase’s receive a minimum of $14,200 for a nine-month work year as  well as health benefits and student fee waivers for those listed as working 25  percent of their time on instruction—among the better packages in public  education according to uc spokesperson paul schwartz.
www.lapena.org meet up for howard dean at three berkeley locations: au coquelet, 2000 university ave.;
jim purdum, general manager of pennsylvania state  university-owned penn stater, a hotel and conference center in state college,  penn., said the university had agreed to pay full taxes to “mitigate the  burden for the city.”
pet adoptions, sponsored by home at last, from noon to 5 p.m., hearst and  4th st. 548-9223.
“back in the 60s, oklahoma was going through some of the same  political upheaval that was happening everywhere else in the country, so the  conservatives decided to get rid of the hippies by sending them to the liberal  arts college there,” he explains with a warm smile.
“all my friends who are progressive voters tell me they are more  aligned with dennis than howard dean, but they say they’re putting their  energy into dean because they think he’s electable.
nursery staff will  help you match plant to pot.
but what remains is the dangerous system whereby small  numbers of policy-makers, acting at the very highest levels of secrecy, are  able to make ill-considered decisions that will have long-term, tragic effects  worldwide.
composers, inc. is an illustrious bay area enterprise, teaming up first-rate composers with equally stellar performers.
the study will be undertaken jointly by the city’s
the citizens of berkeley need to pull together to solve our fiscal  problems.
accordingly, a one percent aga rent increase (plus an additional $3 per unit per month) was provided for all units that already receive the state costa-hawkins vacancy decontrol—or full market rent—increase (the average rent for these units is now $1,220 per month).
neighbors immediately dubbed the tower a “monstrosity,” saying it was out of character with the historic downtown neighborhood, never properly noticed to the public in the project’s environmental impact review, and never subjected to the city’s commission evaluation process.
although  ubiquitous, house sparrows tended to be ignored.
for example, a bouquet for a piece about bluebeard featured twisting branches and flowers representing dangling locks and chains.
it can become the centerpiece of an energized neighborhood, to the  benefit of the local communities and every berkeleyan.
was there a “spinning contest” going on at 73rd and bancroft on saturday night?
thus, if somebody gives  me a sweater or a book as a gift, it’s my gut reaction they’re  telling me what to wear and what to read.
joyfully  hailed berkeley city council’s recent decision to authorize five  wheelchair-accessible taxis in the city, even though the number was halved from  the originally requested 10.
berkeley is home to many unique small businesses started by people from all over the world who came to california, liked what they found, and stayed.
we berkeleyans who enjoy the rewards of living in an international community should continue to do as much as we can to prevent our government from working against these goals.
perhaps, it’s that my gift paranoia  is outweighed by my free food mania.
it never fails to amaze me how often  contemporary human behavior can be described in terms of what i can remember  from the old stories i learned fifty years ago.
to a big female cooper’s, a small male sharpshin would look a lot like lunch.
attempted robbery two men attacked a berkeley resident sunday night, only to find his wallet was empty.
the shelter will allow animals, usually forbidden at the other  shelters.
almost a yard wide, in raspberry, citron, grass green.
“funding amounts have  changed since then.
urban areas can serve as breeding or wintering grounds for  them.
music and dance berkeley chamber performances, wolford-rosenblum, saxophone/piano duo at 8  p.m. at berkeley city club, 2315 durant ave.
from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., $30 for save the bay members, $40 for non-members.
in both the chronicle and the tribune stories, the california highway patrol have been cruising the oakland streets of late to help oakland police crackdown on “sideshow” activities.
so do  most people who prescribe the bus for others.
floyd said services at st. paul have traditionally been more quiet and subdued.
if they’re really for real and not just demagogues, and are really interested in seeing the benefit of the city, they’ll see that we’ve really tightened the belt and they’ll help us with this problem.”
for information call katherine, 525-5231.
jeff egeberg, 981-6406.
“my god,” growls wozzlebrain, “in just one day i’m down a full 50 percent!”
evening restaurant and theater -goers will come by bus.”
learn how to make all natural  soap from olive, coconut, and palm oils.
roth and lima live-trapped 13 cooper’s hawks during two successive  seasons and rigged them with radio transmitters.
www.freightandsalvage.org touch of soul at 9:30 p.m. at beckett’s irish pub, 2271 shattuck ave.
i hadn’t a clue what song lyrics or bands my classmates were referring to, what movie scenes they were emulating, what authors they were copying, what drugs their characters were taking.
from 4 to 8 p.m. at la peña cultural center, 3105 shattuck ave.
peter dale scott is a former canadian diplomat and professor of english at uc berkeley.
she and her associate todd itokazu construct extraordinary bouquets for presentation to soloists who appear with the berkeley symphony.
when she returned for a high school reunion, she met the man who became her  husband and eventually became a californian herself.
uc-owned hotel raises tax issues
wibberkeley@yahoo.com
berkeley copwatch organizational meeting at 6 p.m. at 2022 blake st. join us to work on current issues around police misconduct.
st. paul has a teen pregnancy prevention/teen parenting program that works on preventing teen pregnancy by teaching abstinence through health education and programs that seek to build self-esteem.
they’re specialist bird hunters, built  for close pursuit of mobile targets in woods and thickets: long-tailed,  short-winged avian fighter planes.
what’s left for the corridor, he said, are buildings that are “junky and funky” or far beyond the scope and size of the neighborhood—and lack of parking keeps strong, anchor away.
“all  the people in the opposition have to do is say, ‘look, even the people  you’re going to fund are not for it.’
some smaller trees such as japanese maples also provide beautiful color.
a benefit for berkeley copwatch.
east  oakland—international boulevard, especially—has been something of a  police state of late, with chp cars cruising up and down the nighttime streets.
theater aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” in collaboration with pacific mozart ensemble at 8 p.m. at st. mark’s church, 2300 bancroft.
the driveway seems to be a transit corridor, part of the bird’s  (or birds’) hunting territory.
if they’re really for real and not just demagogues, and are really  interested in seeing the benefit of the city, they’ll see that  we’ve really tightened the belt and they’ll help us with this  problem.”
6 celebrate december with chiquy boom, south american clown extraordinaire, at 11 a.m. at the library west branch, 1125 university ave.
the city  also stands to collect possessory interest taxes—a poorer sister to the  property taxes that the university, as a state entity, doesn’t have to  pay.
while we’re talking jazz, can we get straight, if possible, what is  going on with these berkeley high kids?
holiday plant sale and wreath making from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the botanical garden, 200 centennial dr. 643-2755.
meet up for howard dean at three berkeley locations: au coquelet, 2000 university ave.; raleigh’s (generation dean youth meeting), 2438
stories, along with a name, company number and location should be sent to ccc collection, p.o. box 5, woodbury, nj 08096 or by e-mail to jfjmuseum@aol.com.
john kenneth  galbraith, pictures of formal dances in the 40s and 50s with daringly mixed  racial and ethnic groupings, the saga of how i-house arranged for a japanese  student to live a midwestern home instead of an internment camp when she was  marooned during world war ii.
second, berkeley theaters and restaurants can say goodbye to their patrons from walnut creek, alameda, the oakland hills, marin county and countless other places if they’re expected (especially at night) to wait for a dwindling, sometimes unreliable or even non-existent bus service.
cost is $13 in advance, $15 at the door.
earlier this year, after council deeply split over a resolution from the peace and justice commission to investigate the middle east death of american peace worker rachel corrie, both bates and hawley expressed concern about such “non-berkeley” issues coming before the council.
with hundreds of bios, stories and references already online, the  museum is looking to augment an already outstanding collection.
flu shots fromsutter vna & hospice flu prevention and wellness program.
music and dance concert for dignity and clothing drive to benefit operation dignity at 7:30  p.m. at imusicast, 5429 telegraph ave.
i’m talking about the possibly irreconcilable differences between berkeley’s greens and reds.
“most of this has been beyond anyone’s control.”
mohamed, who was implicated along with  al-kifah veterans in the 1993 bombing of the world trade center, was arrested  again after the bombing of the u.s. embassy in nairobi in 1998.
www.starryploughpub.com “a context for peace” an evening of new work from bay area  musicians, authors and poets at 8 p.m. at la peña cultural center.
council passed a broad budget crisis recovery strategy proposal co-sponsored by bates and councilmembers gordon wozniak, linda maio, and miriam hawley that calls for such belt-tightening measures as a “hard hiring freeze” for city employees and a moratorium on all new city expenditures.
now there’s café van kleef at 1621 telegraph, a classy bistro with live music, art on the walls, and espresso at the bar.
“it’s nice to drive up in a police car and give something to somebody,” agnew said.
st. paul has a teen pregnancy prevention/teen  parenting program that works on preventing teen pregnancy by teaching  abstinence through health education and programs that seek to build  self-esteem.
speaking for downtown residents, many of whom signed petitions and filed appeals against the tower during the past four years, berkeley schoolteacher zoe kalkanis earlier told city council that neighbors of the public service building didn’t want to cause the city any financial problems.
taking aim at community statements against the proposed tax, many of which were expressed at city council’s one and only public hearing on the measure last week, hawley said, “you can’t really gauge the support or lack of support for a measure by the people who come to a single public hearing.”
642-9988  www.berkeleycityballet.org “looking through the eyes of love” fund raising event presented  by connecting through dance, featuring visually impaired partner dancers, as  well as bay area professionals at 7 p.m. at lake merritt dance center, 200  grand ave.
the first congregation,  bethel, was started in philadelphia and led by a former slave, pastor richard  allen, from delaware.
“that they go through the trouble  to do all that work and drive the turkey here, that’s a beautiful  thing,” evans said.
their laminated, high-carbon steel blades  will stay nice and sharp.
splendid birds that they are, i’ll admit to some ambivalence about having cooper’s hawks in the neighborhood.
the commission on disability first requested permits for  wheelchair-accessible taxis in berkeley in 1999 and was later joined in the  effort by the commission on aging.
at 7 p.m. at the ecology center, 2530  san pablo ave, near dwight way.
one of the plan’s six goals is to implement crime tracking along the  university avenue corridor.
the proposed tax hike—called the essential health care services  tax—would give center facilities autonomy in distributing the money and  would not replace money the county already provides for indigent care.
micallef said the city pays for bart tickets to the west oakland station and provides a shuttle from there to the shelter.
www.beckettsirishpub.com yaphet kotto, erase eratta, the yellow press, burmese, bottled o.g. at 8  p.m. at 924 gilman st. cost is $5.
if we don’t put it on the ballot, we are going to have to cut a lot of services, and there will be no community voice in that.”
thinking must be done outside the box for this one, or the downtown  environment will be destroyed by car culture.
what they’re doing, on the sly.
like the recent massachusetts groundbreaking decision, it  is now time for californians to travel a more direct route to this destination  by directly challenging the constitutionality of restrictive state marriage  laws.
for merchant jay ifshin, whose ifshin violins music store has been a  university avenue fixture for over two decades, the city’s failure to  implement the plan is more than a source of frustration.
while we’re talking jazz, can we get straight, if possible, what is going on with these berkeley high kids?
www.jazzschool.com acme observatory contemporary performance series fluxus concert featuring  bibiana padillo maltos at 8 p.m. at the jazz house.
this seems prudent on the smaller  hawks’ part.
unlike many other rose pruning gloves, this pair, in green and cream, really protects arms from the nastiest thorns and longest canes.
www.lapena.org “walk around middle pond” with aquatic park egret’s rangers to see habitat restoration work.
“my main desire, what i believe the city needs to do, is to have a vision broader than just housing, so we will not have groups divided on the avenue,” she said.
the article “newest shelter helps the young homeless” (daily planet, nov. 28-dec.1) incorrectly reported that the army base shelter in west oakland has a reserved area for families.
that’s the cooper’s, though.
“the political environment changed and they fired all the professors, so a bunch of them—including my mother—organized a legal battle and fought to get their jobs back.”
he referred to a smart growth award the city won for acton court, the kind  of project some on the city council say they don’t ever want to happen  again.
and it must provide parking for the new traffic that its megaplex would generate.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu “the call to hawaii: a wellness vacation guidebook” with betsy and laura crites, co-authors, at 7:30 p.m. at easy going bookstore, 1385 shattuck ave at rose.
www.codysbooks.com music and dance california bach society, “christmas vespers” by francisco guerrero, at 8 p.m. at st. john’s presbyterian church, 2727 college ave.
“pills profits and protest: voices of global aids activists” a documentary, followed by discussion at 3 p.m. at parkway theater, 1834 park st. a world aids day benefit for health gap, act up east bay and action=life film collective.
real darn soon, in other words, so stick this paper in  your pocket and get on the train.
options include the shelter at the old army base in west oakland, which  has 50 beds reserved for people from berkeley.
“[the other shelters] are usually a little too rowdy and smelly and insane,” said marz.
a pair of slippers clearly means they want me to walk in their shoes.
—jakob schiller interns sought california assembly majority leader wilma chan is looking for winter student interns to serve in her oakland office.
i first discovered the local pair of coopers nesting in a venerable elm a  few blocks away.
shaw, who also uses a wheelchair, said that “there have been many other members of [the disabled] community who have been killed or injured in accidents.
uaw local 2865, like other uc unions, has accused the university of  negotiating in bad faith, maintaining that uc sends negotiators to the  bargaining table who don’t have authority to reach a deal, a claim the  university rejects.
i don’t think  that berkeley currently has much of a downtown.
www.lapena.org exhibition openings barbara bordnick, “searchings: secret landscapes of flowers” opne at the pacific center for photographic arts, with a lecture at 5 p.m. and reception at 6:30 p.m. 4221 hollis st. at park ave., emeryville.
vigil at 6:30 p.m. followed by peace walk at 7 p.m. www.geocities.com/vigil4peace/vigil community dances, traditional english and american dances, 8 p.m. every wednesday, $9. 7 p.m. first sunday, $10.
it can become the centerpiece of an energized neighborhood, to the benefit of the local communities and every berkeleyan.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu readings and lectures june jordan’s poetry for the people annual exibition of student poets at 7 p.m. in the lipman room, barrows hall, uc campus.
last year, 63,500 of the center’s 125,000 patients were uninsured.
demand that president bush and congress allocate the $15 billion for aids services in africa that the president promised in his january 2003 state of the union address.
if you would like to participate please send your stories, with name company number and location if known, to ccc collection, po box 5, woodbury nj 08096 or email to jfjmuseum@aol.com personnel commissioner sought for alameda county school board responsibilities include administration of the merit system.
uc berkeley student instructors plan to strike the week of dec. 1, just before final exams—potentially leaving students without last-minute instruction or final grades.
wouldn’t you be tempted to buy one just because of the name?
at 8 p.m. at transparent theater, 1901 ashby ave.
“defending the rights of the people in the age of ashcroft,”  featuring clark kissinger, a member of the national council of refuse &  resist!
for more information email brooxbuffy@yahoo.com.
in terms of the fall color question i’m generally a green, with a tinge of red.
but i’ll limit myself to noting a single personal addiction here: mcvitie’s chocolate-covered digestive crackers.
film alternative visions: “superior elegy” and “sneak preview” at 7:30 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
“images of mary in art: the black madonna” with china galland,  director of the images of divinity project at the graduate theological union,  at 7:30 p.m. at all souls episcopal church, 2220 cedar st. 848-1755.
gisele sorensen, 981-7419.
revan tranter animal shelter editors, daily planet: i was delighted to read that mayor tom bates agrees with animal shelter  supporters, shelter staff and members of the community that an animal shelter  “would be great” on the southern portion of the two-acre site at  sixth and gilman streets—the old urban ore site.
the abundant  light radio ministry will broadcast on kyda 1190 am on saturdays from 10:30 to  11 a.m.
uc berkeley’s planned downtown hotel and convention center is part of a growing trend for uc campuses that lure cities with the promise of big tax revenues.
the abundant light radio ministry will broadcast on kyda 1190 am on saturdays from 10:30 to 11 a.m.
for information call 841-4339.
one change that tabor is excited about is st. paul’s newly appointed pastor.
when she returned for a high school reunion, she met the man who became her husband and eventually became a californian herself.
fall permaculture: introduction to permaculture design take some time during the rainy season to design your backyard, school or community garden.
balkan dance lesson with joe kaloyanides graziosi at 7:30 p.m.
the public  will need to be continuously educated and involved in every step of the  process, online and in person, through opinionated open-door planning sessions.
berkeley youth alternatives, blue and gold basketball tournament, 11 years and under division, dec. 5-7, at the bya gym, 1255 allston way.
www.bcco.org “a musical night in africa” with kotoja, west african highlife band, new life band of tanzania, babá okulolo and the nigerian brothers, at 8 p.m. at ashkenaz.
egret@lmi.net prisoner visitation and support, an introduction to the interfaith  independent visitation program at 12:30 p.m. at berkeley friends meeting, 2152  vine st. at the corner of walnut.
many of st. paul’s members, like sarah robinson, have been a part of  the church for decades.
see listing for dec. 5.
when one of the students handed in a story about a young woman going to college in the 70s i breathed a sigh of relief.
imported from england, the crumbly karma of these british browncoats never fails to flash me back to the american revolution.
what emerged from the meeting was an electronic presidential campaign, run in part from a room in a house that was once berkeley’s best-known radical commune.
women for peace anniversary luncheon with minoo moallem, ph.d., department of women’s studies, sf state, at 12:30 p.m. at venezia restaurant, 1799 university ave.
this program, which st. paul runs through a partnership with the university of california office of the president, aims to prepare high school students for college, floyd said.
“we’ve created the basic technological infrastructure for a national campaign, an online fund-raising system, e-mail, and the software for e-mail campaigns,” poole says.
even the  nomenclature “domestic partnership” clearly shows separate legal  status from marriage, and highlights the second-class position of committed gay  relationships in the eyes of the law.
three weeks after this devastating attack, the united states pulled out of somalia, an event osama bin laden has cited as proof that america can be defeated.
“we’re going to have to prove to those people who stood up here before the council and said ‘you tighten your belts.
film yasujiro ozu: “that night’s wife” at 5:30 p.m. and  “dragnet girl” at 7 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
to prepare for the planned strike, uc berkeley provost paul gray asked  professors to hold review sessions that striking gsis would have conducted and  to collect course grade information before the work stoppage begins.
we now know that the arab trainers of the somalis were members of al  qaeda.
the tribune gives the last moments before the crash a slightly different take, saying that the chp officers “canceled the pursuit at 98th avenue and san leandro street.”
to a chocolate snob, which i’m rapidly becoming, milk  chocolate is tres uncool.
cindi and howard goldberg • neighborhood eyesore editors, daily planet: as we look out the front window of our home there are piles of trash and debris and an ancient, dilapidated mobile home with squatters living in it.
researchers at cornell university recently compared the three beverages and determined hot chocolate had almost twice the antioxidant concentration of red wine and two to three times the concentration of green tea.
“the managers understand it—this time we’re not taking  ‘wait’ for an answer.”
our alternate view—of an exceptionally  well designed, landscaped, family friendly, living, community resource—is  gaining momentum as more municipalities are taking pride in their animal  shelters and putting in place reform policies to end the tragedy of pet  overpopulation and high euthanasia.
• cool-looking cyclist-designed gardening gloves made by west county gardener afford exceptional dexterity and tactility.
“will you bear with me?”
but the central failure, others say, is berkeley’s inability to rezone.
imagine if that money were invested to improve transit and to  daylight the creek!
www.blakesontelegraph.com tuesday, dec.
i think most berkeley residents would agree that these preferences are  precisely upside-down.
bates also questioned both the timing of the firefighters’ decision to oppose the tax, as well as the union local’s contention that they had not been formally informed by city officials that the tax would be set aside for the fire department.
“it’s a committed agenda.
but, i suppose, there are lots of things about my  girlfriends i’ve never understood.
when the thief brandished a pistol and demanded money, the victim  complied—then completed his other deliveries before calling police.
the inaugural meeting of the planning commission subcommittee on the new  development is set for 2-4 p.m. in the sitka spruce room at 2120 milvia  st. —matthew artz ccc memories sought the online civilian conservation corps museum, created to provide  information on the new deal program, wants submissions to their online  database.
bayareawomeninblack@earthlink.net bead artistry: an exploration of creativity nov 28 to 30.
tickets are $12-$25.
for more information, call vera 234-8949.
“a lot of our folks have roles scheduling finals and finding rooms  for finals, so there could be a lot problems for the university,” said  cue president claudia horning.
the longer the lease and the more valuable the property improvements, the closer the possesory tax would approach the standard property tax, smith said.
now through christmas: from now until  christmas, at least 10 percent off everything in the store.
meet at 10 a.m. at the cabin on the eastern shore of middle pond at the northern terminus of shellmound street.
no, not the one in 1770s, the one in the 1960s when i discovered  mcvitie’s while in a transcendent state.
interim berkeley planning director dan marks, who has held his position  for five months, said that perceptions notwithstanding, the department  doesn’t chart its own course.
the electronic campaigner isn’t discouraged by media portrayals of  cleveland congressman as an outsider with little chance of winning the  democratic nomination.
www.lapena.org meet up for howard dean at three berkeley locations: au coquelet, 2000  university ave.;
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 1652 shattuck ave.
watch fragrant  flowers bloom in your home this winter.
a number already have wheelchair-accessible vehicles that  are permitted in other bay area cities.”
holiday plant sale and wreath making from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the  botanical garden, 200 centennial dr. 643-2755.
as it is,  i bicycle, bart or walk downtown.
on sunday, williams asked his congregation to pray for him and his family and be patient as he gets settled in his new role.
youths complain that the other shelters are often filled with the mentally disabled and the drugged-out.
when i told a friend i was getting an mfa in creative writing at san francisco state, she looked at me quizzically.
in october, student instructors staged a hastily planned walkout, catching  other university unions and many of its own members off guard and away from  picket lines.
i’m talking about the possibly irreconcilable differences  between berkeley’s greens and reds.
tickets are $25, with champagne  reception.
standby: no technical difficulties: program 4 at 7:30 p.m. at the pacific  film archive.
mayor tom bates called the pilot project “just a toe in the water.
“our kids were slipping through the cracks,” floyd said.
come see our scuba diving, backpacking or camping pictures, at 7:30 p.m. at epworth united methodist church, 1953 hopkins st. 525-6058.
floyd said st. paul is also committed to helping youth in the community.
streets and in her front yards.
crime reduction was a major focus of the strategic plan, and  conditions improved starting in the late 1990s—though that have resulted  more from the overall state of the economy than any city efforts, he said.
peter case, roots music original, at 8 p.m. at freight and salvage.
it sounds red, doesn’t it?
on the same evening council withdrew a proposed parcel tax hike, the  alameda county board of supervisors voted unanimously to place a half-penny tax  increase on the march ballot to bail out cash-strapped public medical  facilities.
youths complain that the other shelters are often filled with the mentally  disabled and the drugged-out.
executive director sharon hawkins leyden, a licensed clinical social worker, says the shelter fills a need for many of berkeley’s homeless youth who have refused to stay at other shelters around the area, which they say are overrun by other groups.
cindi and howard goldberg neighborhood eyesore editors, daily planet: as we look out the front window of our home there are piles of trash and  debris and an ancient, dilapidated mobile home with squatters living in it.
while the city on the bay is a long way in time and space from the  oklahoma plains where poole was born 40 years ago, politics was in his blood  from the start.
“we’ve moved more toward meeting the needs of the  community,” she said.
he’s the only candidate with an exit strategy for the war, the only one with a real grasp of what’s happening to the environment.
“my mother teaches philosophy and religion at university of science  and arts of oklahoma,” he explains, a liberal arts college 40 miles south  of oklahoma city.
tuesday tilden walkers
maybe he should also give up trying to report news and confine his opinions to the editorial page.
tickets are $35, dinner and panel, $10 panel only,
berkeley peace walk and vigil at the berkeley bart sta-
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/rent parks and recreation commission meets mon., dec. 1, at 7 p.m., at the north  berkeley senior center.
“one picture is being painted, but the buildings we’re getting are completely different.”
sliding scale  donation $10-$15.
ruby primus, 981-5106.
there are some powerfully good jazz musicians around here without many places to play.
the board expressed their admiration for our neighborhoods’ willingness to tackle this difficult problem.
all were denied, and thus began their adventure working to  legalize gay marriage.
last week, the daily planet received queries about possible plans by the agenda committee to review all commission reports before they land on city council’s agenda.
when the victim got up and showed them  the empty wallet, the would-be robbers fled.
if you would like to participate please send your  stories, with name company number and location if known, to ccc collection, po  box 5, woodbury nj 08096 or email to jfjmuseum@aol.com free smoke detectors for city residents and uc berkeley students who live  off-campus.
the officer slipped out of his black-and-white police cruiser and strode up to a south berkeley home.
“what happened [with the strategic plan] happens often in  berkeley,” said deputy planning director wendy cosin.
but they also  used what roth and lima called “contour-hugging attacks,” flying a  few feet above the ground and using buildings, fences, and vegetation to cover  their approach to stationary prey, with a final burst of speed as they came in  for the kill.
they’ve spent eight years dinking  around with the thing.”
it was catherine fitts, a professional collaborator and fellow activist, who introduced poole to herman gear, kucinich’s campaign architect.
“i have to remind myself not to be jealous just because i can’t move,” she said laughing.
and when it comes to edible gifts, nothing  beats chocolate.
• elegant, high-carbon garden shears for bonsai and flower arranging are each fashioned by a single craftsperson.
thus, if somebody gives me a sweater or a book as a gift, it’s my gut reaction they’re telling me what to wear and what to read.
i’ve convinced myself my aversion to the present has its roots in the past.
the gardener, 1836 fourth st. 548-6116.
plant families meet and learn to recognize common plant families, with naturalist and gardener terri compost.
imagine if that money were invested to improve transit and to daylight the creek!
he’s not willing to risk going through u.s. visa procedures because of the stories he’s heard about how foreigners, especially foreigners from arabic-speaking countries, are treated in the u.s. these days.
this is not brilliant urban design, but it is an obvious way to end the current impasse and get the shelter built.
ibarra’s cinnamon-laden chocolate discs are packaged in a pretty, hexagonal, red and yellow box, so you can save on gift-wrap.
there are some powerfully good jazz  musicians around here without many places to play.
fourth, closing off center street should also be forever forgotten.
but i am wondering about my sanity.
at the south end of the strip, courtesy of the oakland metro (201  broadway; tel: 763-1146), you have a chance to see gertrude stein’s four  saints in three acts, running dec. 5-14.
forest green nylon fabric  with wooden handles and durable leather look-alike brown trim.
(i rediscovered them when they  were la c.’s holiday gift last year.)
for more information  call 834-3663.
please call terry, 849-4134 or email bloomburgh@sbcglobal.net to sign up.
“when our firefighters turned around and said ‘we don’t  support it,’ i mean, come on,” bates said, exasperated.
i do stand by my remark that it takes guts to put the animal shelter with it’s affordable ‘well-pet’ clinic where it should go—at sixth and gilman, and hope that the city will be able to craft a deal with busd to facilitate the bus yard moving elsewhere and for the animal shelter to be built there.
www.epicarts.org frank johnson at 8:30 p.m. at downtown.
disability commission chairperson wilcox said that daly city and watsonville currently have wheelchair-accessible taxis.
you do the job  and we’ll support you in any kind of a tax measure,’”
and running beneath all of it, say some residents and planning commissioner gene poschman, is an ongoing debate about housing in berkeley.
jamie davis sings music of the masters with an emphasis on romance at 8 p.m. at the jazzschool.
that training, according to author george crile, author of charlie wilson's war, about the cia's arming of islamists during the afghan war, even included “urban terror, with instruction in car bombings, bicycle bombings, camel bombings, and assassination.”
oscar sung, 981-5410.
there seems to be some sort of low-level stein revival underway.
today st. paul has almost 1,000 members who gather to worship in its $1.5 million sanctuary.
i started working with steve cobble, his campaign strategist who’d had the same role for nader.”
stop a thousand cars in east oakland, after all, and the odds are you’ve got to come up with at least one that contains a driver (or a passenger) who might consider shooting somebody, somewhere, sometime in their life.
now, when i juxtapose that image with a “traditional” or “conventional” hotel and convention center with underground parking, i lose hope, get discouraged and want to stay away.
on the other hand, there are those who believe that berkeley’s  natural color this time of year is, and should primarily remain, green.
for information call 548-0425.
open since nov. 10, the facility provides both a general occupancy area and a reserved area for families or people with disabilities.
well, that’s something you should have  questioned a long time ago.”
suggested donation  of $7-$15.
“the church is not there to condemn people for whatever choices they  make,” floyd said.
as  december approaches the leaves turn a lovely fawn brown and mournfully hang on  the tree until some mid-winter storm finally shakes them off.
so, use a little imagination and it should be easy to find a chocolate  treat that won’t trigger a tantrum in your gift-phobic recipient.
“this is  my church.”
berkeley city council quietly put the lid on the coffin of the parcel tax tuesday night, voting 5-2 to keep it off the march 2004 ballot.
this new project can help solve the traffic  congestion problems downtown, not add to them.
this workshop will cover ecological landscape design basics and will be held  indoors at the ecology center from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
academic culture shock from susan parker tuesday december  02, 2003 now that my first semester of graduate school at san francisco state is  winding down, it’s time to reflect on what i’ve accomplished and  learned.
in short story class i learned to compose in the third person.
poetry express, featuring diana quartermaine, from 7 to 9:30 p.m., at priya  restaurant, 2072 san pablo ave.
one trainer of the somalis, egyptian-born ali mohamed, was also a veteran  of u.s. special forces and the cia.
• elegant, high-carbon garden shears for bonsai and flower arranging  are each fashioned by a single craftsperson.
a pair of slippers clearly means they  want me to walk in their shoes.
it’s that time of year again—fall, when there’s visible evidence on the streets of a major divide in viewpoints between berkeley residents.
becoming pastor of st. paul was a sort of homecoming for williams, who attended the church when he was a young boy while his father, e.p. williams, served as pastor in the early 1960s.
but they must be trees that provide fall  color.”
“in st. paul there has always been a willing spirit to help,”  floyd said.
poole’s revolutionary impulses follow a gentler course.
he could not do so, however, without using the opportunity to take a swipe at critics of the tax measure.
all it takes is a trip down the avenue to see that many buildings still need a makeover.
artists with heart, art show benefit from noon to 6 p.m. at 2033 and 2041 center st. more than 50 artists and community members are donating their work to benefit the individuals and families served by boss (building opportunities for self-sufficiency).
voters have given mixed signals in recent years on their willingness to  shoulder high sales taxes, passing a half-cent increase two years ago to pay  for transportation improvements after rejecting it the year before.
www.calperfs.berkeley.edu berkeley ballet theater, “the nutcracker,” at 7 p.m. at julia morgan center for the arts.
the players are so good they’re scary, and they keep coming up with the goods year after year.
but they also used what roth and lima called “contour-hugging attacks,” flying a few feet above the ground and using buildings, fences, and vegetation to cover their approach to stationary prey, with a final burst of speed as they came in for the kill.
the projects arise from the desire of the universities to profit from their steady streams of visitors and the demand for conference space and the hunger for cities to snare room tax money from university land usually exempt from local tax rolls.
or buy the gardener’s paperwhite kit that includes bulbs, pebbles, a  green ceramic dish and instructions.
blue, green, yellow, with a metal feeding tube whose red tip will lure the hummers—the kind with wings.
mary ager domestic partner and berkeley resident tower compromise near?
eight years later, their opera four saints became a  sensation, an infamous cultural event in its time, and the longest-running  opera in broadway history to date.
to the dining pleasure of the cafe patrons across the street?
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu daniel mille at 8:30 p.m. at ashkenaz.
we very much need to provide a large number of urban periphery municipal parking spaces under a cohesive, practical and well-funded transportation plan with free shuttles to both bart and local busing options.
ca.us/commissions/housing public works commission meets thurs., dec. 4, at 7 p.m., at the north berkeley senior center.
and suddenly, at the last minute, they pull the rug out from under us.”
berkeleybiodiesel@ yahoo.com tuesday, dec.
if the taxi option had been available, their lives could have been saved.
but if a  mule is kicked in the head enough, he suddenly wises up.
goodness knows it’s a necessary part of our lives, but except in a few limited instances, public transit is never going to be a serious rival to the private car (least of all at night), and the sooner we realize that, the better.
berkeley city attorney manuela albuquerque said through a spokesperson that her office was reviewing both hotel tax and property tax law to determine the city’s legal rights.
now nine percent of his brain cells go languishing unused.
if mr. koenigshofer feels passionately that the current rent board or the rent ordinance is ”unfair,” i urge him again to devote his time and energy to campaigning on behalf of—and democratically electing—candidates who better reflect his views rather than complaining.
as required by the california supreme court and the city’s rent ordinance, rental property owners in berkeley are entitled to a constitutionally mandated “fair return” from their property investment.
and, on occasion,  have contemplated bidding hasta la vista to the latter part of my own  polysyllabic patronym.
still in oakland (we’ll get to berkeley in a minute), arthur blythe  is at yoshi’s with his quartet on monday, dec. 15.
he says intentional inactivity is a corollary of the lack of coordination.
www.blakesontelegraph.com healthcare sales tax heads for ballot box
suggested donation $30.
• bare root pear trees (partridges not included).
and he believes that in due course berkeley residents will free up spaces “by using transit instead of monthly passes.
call for location  594-4000, ext.
santa cruz offers the worst case scenario, where ucsc signed a long-term  lease on a holiday inn hotel.
there are no electricity, running water, or sewage hook-ups to the mobile home.
www.berkeleyballet.org berkeley city ballet, “the nutcracker,” at 7 p.m. at zellerbach playhouse, uc berkeley campus.
i had to study up on pop culture.
enrollment of international students at cal is down since 9/11, enough to affect the vacancy rate for berkeley rentals.
city unions are getting a major share of the blame from tax opponents.
and, on occasion, have contemplated bidding hasta la vista to the latter part of my own polysyllabic patronym.
this picturesque yet utilitarian rustic bamboo broom sweeps up  leaves, even wet ones, with ease.
the sign would be visible to everyone using the  university avenue freeway entrance—and this would be one of the most  visible buildings in berkeley.
they’re specialist bird hunters, built for close pursuit of mobile targets in woods and thickets: long-tailed, short-winged avian fighter planes.
in the meantime, thanks to a number of large grants, including a $15,000  contribution from the city of berkeley, they’ll operate at full scale  until more money comes in—at least through most of the coldest months.
now here was a narrative i’d be able to critique with knowledge and fairness.
for information, cal (916)691-7170.
tickets are $15-$20 and are available from  642-9988.
thanksgiving at our house has often included guests from other countries, as it did this year.
rob browning animal shelter editors, daily planet: we support jill’s posener view of the berkeley animal shelter.
or was mr. brown simply out there spinning a donut on his own (which  east oaklanders have been doing for a couple of decades, by the way, most often  unrelated to what people define as sideshows)?
“i was interested in software and abstractions, so i got into programming at 14 as an escape form small town thinking.
swing dance lesson with nick and shanna at 8 p.m.
644-6893 www.berkeleyartcenter.org oakland glass artists holiday exhibit and sale, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at  2680 union st. oakland.
www.freightandsalvage.org sterling dervish at 9:30 p.m. at beckett’s irish pub, 2271 shattuck  ave.
since they prey on other  birds, i’d wondered if i was in fact provisioning a hawk-feeder when i  put out seed for the songbirds in my yard.
“technology controls so much of our lives, and it’s not healthy to have it all controlled by a few powerful corporations.”
led by dody donnelly, ph.d. and hank “waablez” adams, from 9:45 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the unitarian church, 1 lawson rd., kensington.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/rent parks and recreation commission meets mon., dec. 1, at 7 p.m., at the north berkeley senior center.
theater wilde irish productions, “endgame” by samuel beckett, opens at  the berkeley city club, 2315 durant ave.
“they’re just a little nuts.”
also provides another perk certain to attract younger people in need.
jane micallef, a community services specialist with the city of berkeley, said there will be other emergency options for those who can’t stay at yeah!
their criticism stung on a very personal level.
but if a mule is kicked in the head enough, he suddenly wises up.
comes with a stainless steel trowel, fork, and three-tined cultivator, all with red oak handles.
tickets are $30 for adults, $25 for children 3 and older, and $5 for  children 2 years and under.
cost is $13 in advance,  $15 at the door.
fall permaculture: introduction to permaculture design take some time  during the rainy season to design your backyard, school or community garden.
the toronto daily globe and mail later concluded that mohamed "was working with u.s. counter-terrorist agents, playing a double or triple game, when he was questioned in 1993."
many of st. paul’s members, like sarah robinson, have been a part of the church for decades.
marcel proust was notorious for manipulating his friends through gift-giving.
francis agrees with maio and bates that one immediate concern is enforcing  building standards that haven’t been applied since the plan was adopted.
“yeah, dennis is a long shot, but i’m willing to take a long  shot.
created by mayor bates as part of his program  to modify council rules and policies after his election last november, the  committee triggered some initial controversy on city council.
www.bacds.org free feldenkrais atm classes for adults 55 and older at 10:30 and 11:45  a.m. at the jewish community center, 1414 walnut at rose.
we can bellweather a progressive planning trend in mid-sized us metros.
berkeley has lots of expatriate new yorkers and  new englanders, and while some of them have adjusted to the more salubrious bay  area climate, others pine (or should i say, maple?) for visible reminders of  home.
in the meantime, he says, he’s been sleeping behind buildings and doing his best to stay healthy.
he’s not  willing to risk going through u.s. visa procedures because of the stories  he’s heard about how foreigners, especially foreigners from  arabic-speaking countries, are treated in the u.s. these days.
to register or for more information call 452-9261.
another site is earmarked to be part of a new bike trail linking emeryville and berkeley and requires a substantial swath of the land, and the site on carlton street, west of seventh street near the railroad tracks, is so close to the bayer plant that many people felt the proximity to a company engaged in live animal testing would present an image problem for the berkeley animal shelter.
yeah! is a new shelter established specifically to house people ages 18-25 who need overnight shelter during the winter months.
holiday plant sale from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the botanical garden, 200  centennial drive.
642-9988 www.berkeleycityballet.org “looking through the eyes of love” fund raising event presented by connecting through dance, featuring visually impaired partner dancers, as well as bay area professionals at 7 p.m. at lake merritt dance center, 200 grand ave.
if, instead, the landlords had showered me with gifts they would have quickly driven me out of town.
there are about 1,600 of them, and some of them are great.
as we’re all soon to be awash in messiahs and requiems, this is as musically provocative a combination as you’re likely to find for the duration of the holidays.
and it must  provide parking for the new traffic that its megaplex would generate.
www.bpf.org overeaters anonymous meets every friday at 1:30 p.m. at the northbrae  church at solano and the alameda.
music and dance berkeley ballet theater, “the nutcracker,” at 2 and 7 p.m. at  julia morgan center for the arts.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu readings and lectures lunch poems at 12:10 p.m. in the morrison library in doe library, uc  campus, former u.s. poet laureate, robert hass.
artists with heart, art show benefit from noon to 6 p.m. at 2033 and 2041  center st. more than 50 artists and community members are donating their work  to benefit the individuals and families served by boss (building opportunities  for self-sufficiency).
“and it’s brought up now because things have gone wrong.”
oakland opera theater, “four saints in three acts,” at 8 p.m.
cyclist foils would-be bandits police arrested two juveniles saturday after the failed robbery of a bike rider.
berkeley has lots of expatriate new yorkers and new englanders, and while some of them have adjusted to the more salubrious bay area climate, others pine (or should i say, maple?) for visible reminders of home.
news vacancies testify to stalled plan by andrew becker special to  the planet tuesday december 02, 2003 for planning commissioner gene poschman, university avenue represents more  than an unfulfilled vision.
he said he is tired of  the city treating the corridor as a dumping ground for what more vocal  neighborhoods don’t want.
for those of you unfamiliar with brookfield village, that is within easy walking distance—almost within sight, in fact, though it’s around a bit of a curve—of the accident scene at denslowe and 98th.
bring a bag of lunch, beverage  provided.
so, use a little imagination and it should be easy to find a chocolate treat that won’t trigger a tantrum in your gift-phobic recipient.
mohamed, who was implicated along with al-kifah veterans in the 1993 bombing of the world trade center, was arrested again after the bombing of the u.s. embassy in nairobi in 1998.
actually, there’s only a single individual  who persists in plying me with presumed tokens of her affection, mon  significant amour, la c. over the years, she’s learned edible gifts are  least likely to drive me up the wall.
yuko maruyama, jazz pianist, in a benefit for chez panisse foundation, at 1  p.m. at yoshi's at jack london square, 510 embarcadero west, oakland.
now through christmas: from now until christmas, at least 10 percent off everything in the store.
community drumming circle from 7 to 9 p.m. at ashkenaz.
but, i suppose, there are lots of things about my girlfriends i’ve never understood.
“but i’m just one out of three people
according to police, the victim was walking along the 1900 block of woolsey street when the pair raced up behind him.
of the three unions pledging sympathy strikes, cue, the university’s largest union representing approximately 2,800 uc berkeley clerical workers, appears most likely to exacerbate logistical difficulties stemming from the planned student instructor strike.
needless to say, the woman of the house was happy to see him.
film yasujiro ozu: “tokyo story”at 2 p.m. and “i was born, but  ...” at 5:30 p.m. and “where now are the dreams of youth?” at  7:25 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
among his creations are kucinich’s campaign website,  www.denniskucinich.us, his electronic bulletin board, us.denniskucinich.us, and  a wiki—a site each user can edit, alter, or otherwise contribute  to—www.civicactions.org.
www.codysbooks.com music and dance cantare chorale and chamber ensemble, “o holy night,” 115 voices accompanied by winds, brass and organ at 3 p.m. at first presbyterian church, corner of 27th and broadway, oakland.
good-looking garden tote bag w/tools.
see  listing for nov. 29.
i think the sunlight issue is easily addressed by use of japanese sunflower fiber-optic or similar technology that pipes sunlight san uv’s wherever it is needed.
•mother-in-law’s chair.
for information and directions call 525-1272.
“i think that the commissions can evaluate what would have been  appropriate for that site like they would have done in the beginning had it  gone through the correct process,” said councilmember linda maio.
we also have a small shady spot that needs  the ivy removed and the soil prepared for a small native garden that we'll  plant in december.
most recently, in what the media erroneously called the “virtual gay marriage act,” approximately a dozen new rights were bestowed by the legislature, such as community property ownership protections and bereavement leave for state employees.
bronstein declined further comment.
revan tranter • animal shelter editors, daily planet: i was delighted to read that mayor tom bates agrees with animal shelter supporters, shelter staff and members of the community that an animal shelter “would be great” on the southern portion of the two-acre site at sixth and gilman streets—the old urban ore site.
those reasons, and the music they inspired, comprise the piece.
there are two  separate facilities, one for single women and children, the other co-ed.
if we follow through on this line of thought, i suggest we’re in for  a disaster.
native plant restoration at wildcat creek, from 1 to 4 p.m.
from 2 to 4 p.m. at tilden nature area, in tilden park.
mr. geller suggests that “the conference center shouldn’t need  much parking...... visitors arriving by air can ride bart directly from either  oak or sfo.”
“i think that this becomes a symbol—things are not getting  done right in berkeley,” poschman said.
the performance is  tonight at 8 p.m. in the green room of the veterans building, 401 van ness  ave., san francisco.
williams  and his congregation seemed to stumble through parts of the service, unsure if  the collection of tithes and offering was to come before church announcements  or not.
instead of building developments that complement the community, the city has had to accept intrusive structures like acton court, poschman said.
• elephant’s foot (crested pachypodium).
learn how to size, specify and design your own solar electrical  generator.
the call quickly secured his release.
we print almost every letter and commentary piece we get that’s not  completely illiterate or overwhelmingly obscene, and during the whole  discussion of the tax proposal we received no more that two or three letters  favoring the tax, plus a commentary from revenue task force chair dion aroner.
carl mcdonald with blazing fire band, the caribbean groovers steel band,  with special guests mr. major-p and razor blade at 9:30 p.m. at ashkenaz.
out in front of the speculative curve, not only do we have the oakland box  theater at 20th and telegraph (previously cited in this column), and the  oakland metro at the base of broadway.
“already home in west berkeley,” with author barbara gates, a  moving memoir that explores the connections between local history, the  environment, the body, and the spirit.
“the university avenue strategic plan was supposed to prevent that kind of gargantuan mess.”
i’m making an appointment with the chairman  of the history department today and offering my expertise.
“i think that this becomes a symbol—things are not getting done right in berkeley,” poschman said.
film yasujiro ozu: “that night’s wife” at 5:30 p.m. and “dragnet girl” at 7 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
jutta’s flowers, on claremont avenue next to the star grocery, is a  perfect example of how the process works.
applications are available from the environment, health & safety office of uc berkeley, at any berkeley fire station, or at the fire admin.
he referred to a smart growth award the city won for acton court, the kind of project some on the city council say they don’t ever want to happen again.
“all the lip service is there, but there isn’t a lot of  follow-through right now,” said robin kibby, 30, who has lived in the  university avenue corridor for seven years.
at 7 p.m. at epworth united methodist church, 1953 hopkins st. preceeded by vegetarian dinner at 6 p.m. donation for dinner and program $15 and up, no one turned away for lack of funds.
the citizens of berkeley need to pull together to solve our fiscal problems.
i have to agree with tom brown (letters, daily planet, nov. 28-dec. 1) that underground parking is not environment friendly or cost effective.
“we feel very constrained by the law,” he said.
cost is $5 for residents, $7 for non-residents.
in the meantime, city manager phil kamlarz announced that he would present  preliminary plans to close berkeley’s budget deficit at council’s  dec. 16 meeting.
what’s left for the corridor, he said, are buildings that are  “junky and funky” or far beyond the scope and size of the  neighborhood—and lack of parking keeps strong, anchor away.
a december 13 class at the nursery will teach you how to choose the right tree for your needs, how to decorate its container, and how to keep your tree in good health.
the performance is tonight at 8 p.m. in the green room of the veterans building, 401 van ness ave., san francisco.
cost is $15.50 in advance, $16.50 at the door.
642-9988 www.berkeleycityballet.org moodswing orchestra at 9:30 p.m. at ashkenaz.
www.ashkenaz.com blues holiday concert with rev. rabia, bay area blues- woman, at 8 p.m. at the berkeley public library’s reading room, 2090  kittredge.
suggested donation $5-$10.
for more information call arden pierce at  650-494-1631.
www.magicgardens.com sunset walk in the emeryville marina, sponsored by the solo sierrans.
people of  all traditions are welcome to join us.
i agree with tom bates that even the local progressive  media often emphasize the wrong issues.
642-9988  www.berkeleycityballet.org moodswing orchestra at 9:30 p.m. at ashkenaz.
“we’ve created the basic technological infrastructure for a  national campaign, an online fund-raising system, e-mail, and the software for  e-mail campaigns,” poole says.
• long-reach pruners, 1 to 8 feet long, plus extendable handles that add up to two feet, will enable you to reach that elusive fruit at the top of the tree.
frank snapp winter brings array of eclectic musical theater by c.  suprynowicz special to the planet tuesday december 02, 2003 mortgaging the earth is the name of john halle’s new work for two  sopranos and chamber ensemble, being presented tonight
the tower was built atop the public safety building on martin luther king  jr. drive in 1999 to replace two existing 130-foot antennae.
now that my first semester of graduate school at san francisco state is winding down, it’s time to reflect on what i’ve accomplished and learned.
in good time for the holidays, the bot garden’s next plant sale will be on saturday, dec. 6, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. and will feature an interesting selection of indoor and outdoor plants, all propagated by volunteer horticulturalists.
from 4 to 8 p.m. at la peña cultural center, 3105  shattuck ave.
but it was the mayor who was most disinclined to keep the parcel tax alive.
voters have given mixed signals in recent years on their willingness to shoulder high sales taxes, passing a half-cent increase two years ago to pay for transportation improvements after rejecting it the year before.
tickets are $10, $5 with student i.d. aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for  dec. 2.
based on a 2000 audit of the defense department that revealed the pentagon  has a billion dollars a year in unaccounted transaction, the site shows how  that money could be used to fund education, children’s healthcare and  other programs.
at that moment, 18 years old, i felt that i was indeed a citizen of the world, even though i’d never been farther from the u.s. than tijuana.
since 1980, aga adjustments have kept pace with bay area inflation, and  maintained the constitutionally mandated ”net operating income” (or  profit) level for all rent controlled units in berkeley.
it should be a place where potential adopters can easily get to the berkeley shelter to adopt dogs and/or cats.
7 children gayle schmidt and the toodala ramblers, bluegrass and old time music for children at 3 p.m. at ashkenaz.
nicole and the soul sisters at 9:30 p.m. at beckett’s irish pub, 2271 shattuck ave.
“back in the 60s, oklahoma was going through some of the same political upheaval that was happening everywhere else in the country, so the conservatives decided to get rid of the hippies by sending them to the liberal arts college there,” he explains with a warm smile.
“i promise it won’t be uncomfortable for long,” williams  said and then urged the crowd to be excited about what the future holds.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/commissions/landmarks playing percentages editors, daily planet: that demented little coterie who have nothing better to do on tuesday nights than to follow city council meetings got a rare dose of comic relief at a recent public hearing when one councilmember tried to snooker his colleagues with some statistical legerdemain.
everything  else will be supplied.
their criticism stung on a very personal  level.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu music and dance the people with lz phoenix, sol americano and dr. masseuse at 9 p.m. at  ashkenez.
tanya holland introduces her new cookbook, “new soul cooking” at 3 p.m. at barnes and noble.
traffic whizzes by empty storefronts on a thoroughfare
team fee is $75, individual fee $15.
operating at full capacity, each bed costs $13 a night, much less than other emergency programs.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/ commissions/peaceandjustice youth commission meets mon., dec. 1, at 6:30 p.m., at 1730 oregon st.  philip harper-cotton, 981-6670.
those of us who always envisaged the new animal shelter there did so  because of the high visibility without encroaching on a residential area.
“speak for the trees”
www.thejazzhouse.org 7th direction and pocket at 9:30 p.m. at the starry plough.
the san pablo park neighborhood has been working for over two years with  the city agencies to remedy this intolerable situation.
professors were also informed that in the case of a strike they would have greater latitude to alter the format of a test.
i’m making an appointment with the chairman of the history department today and offering my expertise.
but he got so many  facts wrong about clothes, hair styles, cars, drinking habits and music, i  spent my entire critique correcting his historical errors, not his actual  writing.
one that stands  out is lachenalia viridiflora, with astonishing turquoise flowers that make you  want to get up close.
“you’re down just three  percent.
before they made it to  martinez, retired lt. tom grant tumbled from his bike, opening a gash on his  leg that needed stitches.
whether that’s justified or not should be openly evaluated in the public arena.
third, it’s time for city leaders to finally drive a silver stake  through the unworkable notion of “daylighting” strawberry creek.
its flowers  are shaped like elongated, rosy red bells about three inches long.
the rent board’s aga calculation includes 27 separate rental property owner expenses, taxes, fees, utility costs, etc.
imported from england, the crumbly karma  of these british browncoats never fails to flash me back to the american  revolution.
i felt that i had made a giant step forward in my efforts to craft a fictional tale.
full text full text erik olson: critics say that the numerous vacant  storefronts on university avenue signify a major planning failure.
whether that’s justified or not should be openly evaluated in the public  arena.
sponsored by the buddhist peace  fellowship.
since they prey on other birds, i’d wondered if i was in fact provisioning a hawk-feeder when i put out seed for the songbirds in my yard.
but now, st. paul has a music  ministry that has musicians who play everything from the flute and saxophone to  drums and bass.
org/benefitconcert.htm “maybe monday” improvisational response to helen mirra’s
in this ruling, justices concurred that marriage is a fundamental right of all citizens, and moreover that “legislation infringing such rights must be based upon more than prejudice and must be free from oppressive discrimination to comply with the constitutional requirements of due process and equal protection of the laws.”
council’s decided for the wheelchair taxis after emotional testimony  from disability commissioner marissa shaw, who cited the recent automobile  accident death of berkeley activist fred lupke as a reason to approve the  project.
funded in part by the city of berkeley and staffed by a crew of over 75 volunteers, the shelter opens dec. 1 at the lutheran church of the cross, 1744 university ave.
and what has been built—acton court, for example—is not what the city had in mind, said councilmember linda maio.
is  there anything you want to tell me?”
report back from occupied palestine with john ross at 7 p.m. at fellowship hall, cedar and bonita.
film yasujiro ozu: “tokyo story”at 2 p.m. and “i was born, but ...” at 5:30 p.m. and “where now are the dreams of youth?”
“elections are like trains,” he said.
tickets are $18 and are available from 848-5698.
the effect—a feathered projectile  hurtling past the kitchen window—would be even more startling from ground  level.
but between now and next november,  let’s talk.
the birds in the study often lost visual contact with their targets during  these broken-field runs, but seemed to know where they were headed.
the same ones who originally saw mr. brown at 73rd and bancroft?
all it takes is a trip down the avenue to see that many buildings still  need a makeover.
in the meantime, city manager phil kamlarz announced that he would present preliminary plans to close berkeley’s budget deficit at council’s dec. 16 meeting.
team fee is  $75, individual fee $15.
if the 160-foot monopole antennae proves to have the same communications coverage as the existing 160-foot antennae tower, it would allay the concerns of city public safety officials about cutting back on communications efficiency.
“there’s a philosophical and ideological debate behind this.
from my personal experiences, when people see this man, they experience a sense of hope that wasn’t there before.
at best, it would open the creek to fast food waste and toxic runoff.
i  don’t believe in raising property taxes on the ever struggling us middle  and lower classes or poorer small business.
floyd said st. paul is even taking on issues that have traditionally been considered taboo in the church.
www.starryploughpub.com “a context for peace” new work from bay area musicians, authors and poets at 8 p.m. at la peña cultural center.
100  professional artists and craftspeople at studio buildings in berkeley open  their doors to the public.
“a good campaign needs volunteers who are pretty passionate about  the topic,” maio said.
for  information call 548-0425.
chocolate-covered stuff decades ago i had a girlfriend who had a passion for chocolate-covered halvah bars—or, more precisely, she had a passion for the chocolate on chocolate-covered halvah bars.
dee at 9:30 p.m. at blakes on telegraph.
we now know that the arab trainers of the somalis were members of al qaeda.
www.beckettsirishpub.com grand unified theory, forget the jonses, the apples, the silence, static thought at 8 p.m. at 924 gilman st., an all-ages, member-run, no alcohol, no drugs, no violence club.
the logic says we we’re  blown out of the water.”
his service to al qaeda is clear and admitted; it is not clear that he has done anything to benefit the united states.
and then we have the oakland practice of spinning donuts in a car in the middle of an intersection.
for a really green christmas, get a living spruce, cypress or cedar  christmas tree.
film “effaced” and “jenin, jenin” at 7 p.m. at 340 stephens hall.
i got very comfortable  with the machine.”
with a straight face, this councilmember told his colleagues the  three percent difference was actually a 50 percent gap (three being 50 percent  of six, right?).
4 aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for  dec. 1.
poole cites the supporter who, after he used the web to announce a  cross-country walk in support of the candidate, was soon joined by four others,  who are now going door-to-door in new york recruiting votes for their  candidate.
“this is the best day of the year,” said lt. bruce agnew, who,  along with sgt.
set several of these utterly charming moss stone frog musicians from indonesia, and you have the makings of a frog gamelan (balinese musical ensemble) for your garden.
the display cases are filled with memorabilia going back almost 75 years since the house opened: a letter of recommendation for canadian john kenneth galbraith, pictures of formal dances in the 40s and 50s with daringly mixed racial and ethnic groupings, the saga of how i-house arranged for a japanese student to live a midwestern home instead of an internment camp when she was marooned during world war ii.
berkeley’s mayor seems not to be immune  from this historic human tendency.
sponsored by the buddhist peace fellowship.
for applications contact the energy office at 644-8544.
www.lapena.org exhibition openings barbara bordnick, “searchings: secret landscapes of flowers”  opne at the pacific center for photographic arts, with a lecture at 5 p.m. and  reception at 6:30 p.m. 4221 hollis st. at park ave., emeryville.
the university holds that current labor contract language prohibits such  actions, but the issue remains a legal gray area, so the school has demanded  that other unions follow the example of university lecturers who earlier this  year agreed to contract language baring sympathy strikes.
williams said he hopes listeners will be inspired by the saturday broadcast and motivated to visit st. paul the following morning.
“through our e-mail discussion, i learned that kucinich was going to be in san francisco in may, so we went to his town hall meeting on the 24th and i heard him speak.
maio said she didn’t see any reason why the agenda committee would  hold over a commission report for more than a week.
i can think of three reasons.”
williams and his congregation seemed to stumble through parts of the service, unsure if the collection of tithes and offering was to come before church announcements or not.
but in at least one case, university ownership delivered exactly the  opposite.
city public safety officials countered that the larger tower eliminates  some of the city’s so-called “communications dead spots”  along the edge of the hills and in some west berkeley neighborhoods where  police with hand-held communications devices could not exchange messages with  police headquarters under the two-antennae system.
other programs, including the berkeley food and housing project, continue to run year-round food and housing projects and conduct emergency services, such as coat and blanket drives.
2 theater aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” with pacific  mozart ensemble at 8 p.m. at st. mark’s church, 2300 bancroft.
the santa cruz city council was warned in late 2001, maybe earlier, that declining state revenues would require substantial cuts, so they went right to work on trying to figure out what to do.
with hundreds of bios, stories and references already online, the museum is looking to augment an already outstanding collection.
the logic says we we’re blown out of the water.”
www.calperfs.berkeley.edu splash circus, “in the magical forest” at 2 p.m. at julia  morgan center for the arts, 2640 college ave.
“i’m really working on trying to open up communications and  create an infrastructure for building up decentralized communities,” he  explains.
we print almost every letter and commentary piece we get that’s not completely illiterate or overwhelmingly obscene, and during the whole discussion of the tax proposal we received no more that two or three letters favoring the tax, plus a commentary from revenue task force chair dion aroner.
services include overnight shelter from 8 p.m. to 8 a.m., along  with snacks, breakfast, and physical and mental health programs.
injury accidents happen all the time in cities, with little notice.
“there’ll be another one before we know it.
becky o’malley is executive editor of the daily planet.
the berkeley development would replace the bank of america branch at the  corner of shattuck avenue and center street with a 200-room hotel/convention  center, including 15,000 square feet of conference space, a 5,000-square-foot  bank and underground parking.
another problem with too much emphasis on fall color is that it reduces  the opportunity for one of the benefits berkeley’s climate offers that  the northeast can’t—winter flowering trees.
we can start, now, with more and better open public conversations about what’s gone wrong.
meanwhile, up on telegraph avenue, everybody’s  spare-changing for fire safety.
they disliked her so much they  didn’t want to read further.
the site’s yard-stick proximity to the downtown bart station, and  frequent service by ac transit make it is easy to see how a relationship  between local transit, the hotel and it’s visitors would be readily  established.
but they must be trees that provide fall color.”
“but everybody wants  to move,” she said of the church’s younger generation of members,  who want more upbeat music.
permitted taxis will be vans equipped with retractable ramps—which will also be available for taxi riders in the city who don’t use wheelchairs.
and i believe in  supporting any venue i’ve never heard of just on principle.
the one male in the study did go after the occasional sparrow, but seemed to prefer bigger game.
crafts include blown glass, functional and decorative ceramics, ornaments, menorahs, clocks, lamps and lighting, painted and custom furniture, garden art, bird houses, egg dioramas, floor cloths, clothing, textiles, jewelry, sculpture, photography, paintings, original prints, and other works on paper.
to date the advice has not been accepted.
he said he believes the planning department has its own agenda for the corridor—which runs west from oxford street to interstate 80 and is bounded by delaware street to the north and allston way to the south—and elsewhere.
how many parking spaces will be needed?
off-loom beading art objects including jewelry sale by featured artists.
it’s happened more than once, but i’m still not used to it: looking down from my dining room window as a cooper’s hawk flies up the driveway.
acton court “is the poster child for what the avenue can become  under current zoning,” he said.
the event will feature speakers, including congresswoman barbara lee, and the display of 300 pairs of shoes to symbolize the africans who will die of aids-related causes in the hour that the rally takes place.
3 aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for  dec. 1.
readings and lectures guided tour: gene(sis): contemporary art explores human genomics, at 2  p.m., berkeley art museum, 2626 bancroft way.
nicole and the soul sisters at 9:30 p.m. at beckett’s irish pub, 2271  shattuck ave.
kagen said implementing the policy denying non-emergency care has proven  difficult because many doctors and staffers refuse to turn away patients.
may be jen and jose, who have been sleeping in their car.
hida tool & hardware, 1333 san pablo ave.
theater wilde irish productions, “endgame” by samuel beckett, opens at the berkeley city club, 2315 durant ave.
pris, go ahead perform indy rock and rock at 9:30 p.m. at blakes on  telegraph.
maybe he should also give up trying to report  news and confine his opinions to the editorial page.
when pressed, he amended his statement to include just  “editorials” and “letters,” not news articles per se.
back in berlin, she got the dream job of showing international visitors her city’s many cultural attractions, but she never forgot california.
and,  with luck, you might elicit a glimmer of gratitude.
to order tickets call 925-284-3740 or visit the junior league website at www.jloeb.org holiday plant sale and wreath making at 10:30 a.m. at the botanical garden, 200 centennial dr. 643-2755.
we really need to have more taxation for necessary services since the fed and state are going republocrat nuts with selfish, heartless and unrealistic slash and burn economic tactics.
at 3 and 7 p.m. and  “the brothers and sisters of toda” at 4:35 and 8:30 p.m. at the  pacific film archive.
$5-20 sliding scale, no one turned away for lack of funds.
instead of offering pedestrian-friendly sidewalks and businesses that merge harmoniously into the surrounding neighborhoods, university avenue continues to be dominated by cars and dotted with empty storefronts.
also, in an earlier letter (daily planet, nov. 17-20), mr. koenigshofer assails the berkeley rent stabilization board’s annual citywide rent increase/adjustment process, or annual general adjustment (aga), as “unfair.”
frankly, all those folks that mim says are for it, i haven’t encountered them.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/commissions/environmentaladvisory landmarks preservation commission meets mon., dec. 8, 7:30 p.m., at the north berkeley senior center.
i don’t mind some fall color, but too much of it is wrong for  berkeley.
the botanical garden has tillandsias, small bromeliads that grow on the trunks of trees in the jungle, placed on special clay mountings that can be hung on the wall.
in davis, a similar development is in the  planning stages, while in san diego a new hotel and convention center will open  next year and in santa cruz the university assumed control of a holiday inn two  years ago.
in addition, a number of chocolate bar manufacturers sell hot chocolate mixes.
based on a 2000 audit of the defense department that revealed the pentagon has a billion dollars a year in unaccounted transaction, the site shows how that money could be used to fund education, children’s healthcare and other programs.
over and over my classmates told me that  my protagonist was a witch, a bitch and worse.
share your slides and prints and learn what other photographers are doing.
thinking must be done outside the box for this one, or the downtown environment will be destroyed by car culture.
“patting  ourselves on the back about what we did in the church just won’t do  it.”
soundwave studios acoustic showcase at 9:30 p.m. at blakes on telegraph.
the only fertilizer you’d want to find under your christmas  tree.
again with a straight face.
at the south end of the strip, courtesy of the oakland metro (201 broadway; tel: 763-1146), you have a chance to see gertrude stein’s four saints in three acts, running dec. 5-14.
with their elegantly curved handles, they could be displayed as art objects in their own right.
the first congregation, bethel, was started in philadelphia and led by a former slave, pastor richard allen, from delaware.
in this context, green  and red are not political ideologies but, rather, the colors of street trees at  this time of year.
later that day, a ford probe sideswiped lt. agnew,  knocking off the car’s sideview mirror and bruising his hip.
we are an inclusive scout group for  high schoolers-college boys and girls.
autumn in the bay area is when the rains return bringing the quickening and reinvigoration of much of the landscape, not the beginning of annual dormancy.
the shelter will allow animals, usually forbidden at the other shelters.
• lapageria rosea, chilean bellflower, is the national flower of  chile and would make a very special gift for a true plant connoisseur.
we will bring back memories of the mid-1970s and berkeley’s “progressive media” folks.
please rsvp to 548-4141.
one proposed site is tune-up masters, an auto maintenance and repair shop  at 1698 university ave.
public hearings should have been at the beginning, not at the end of the  process.
jutta dedicates a whole room to her extensive holiday  offerings, including the wonderful blown glass animals on her christmas tree,  from which part of the proceeds go to the national wildlife federation.
told about the agenda committee proposal regarding commission reports, planning commission chairperson zelda bronstein said that “before any such proposal is taken to city council for discussion, any changes in procedures in how commission reports come before council ought to be first presented to the commissions themselves.
church’s missions include “feeding the hungry,”  “clothing the naked” and “housing the homeless.”
enrollment of international students at cal is down since 9/11, enough to  affect the vacancy rate for berkeley rentals.
5 theater berkeley high school, “you can’t take it with you,” by moss hart and george s. kaufman, directed by rachel rudy, at 8 p.m. at the florence schwimley little theater.
i’ve also had a plausible report of a pair nesting south of the uc campus, and others may be around.
the researchers shadowed the hawks daily until early spring and reported that the birds “were unperturbed by the presence of humans in vehicles or other urban disturbances.”
planted right after the holidays, it will get established over the winter so that it’s ready to go and grow in the spring.
can contact sharon hawkins leyden at 848-1424.
a parisienne at the table has been here for five years, thanks to her  husband’s high-tech job, but her family hasn’t visited her.
the agenda committee, originally known as the rules committee, manages the  agenda for berkeley city council.
they want me screaming for their love.
according to justin, the site functions as a primary source database.
one semester of ninth grade english in my school was devoted to what we called “mythology,” that is, the stories that the ancient greeks and romans used to explain the universe.
from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. benefits healthgap and act up  east bay.
just for kicks i did a search to see what the history department was offering.
take a look later this winter, and consider whether trees that are green all year might not have made more sense.
berkeley’s homeowners pay  some of the highest property taxes in the state.
for ages 12 and older, registration required.
“we’ve never had a line-by-line review of expenditures and revenues,” carson said, adding that the estimated $86 million deficit could be lower if state reimbursements have not been received.
here’s another perspective: one underground parking space costs $40,000!
as to the comment attributed to me, that the land swap could have been  accomplished with more political support, reporter matt artz misunderstood me.
cost $10, $12 for non-residents.
www.blakesontelegraph.com berkeley voters will get to weigh in on a proposed tax hike this march after all.
it might help if i were to get my nose pierced and dyed my hair blue.
in operation anaconda of that month, rpgs, by hitting the tail  rotors, incapacitated several u.s. air force apache helicopters.
plus you can receive thousands of rebate dollars from the state at  the same time.
reports from berkeley’s 23 citizen commissions can be controversial  themselves.
second, the underground garage is essential: uc must replace the parking  it would remove by destroying its addison/oxford parking structure.
the hawks turned out to have two main hunting modes.
for a map of participating studios call 845-2612.
i  think it’s an autonomous agenda.”
color me winter green.
6 celebrate december with chiquy boom, south american clown extraordinaire,  at 11 a.m. at the library west branch, 1125 university ave.
despite our best efforts, we have not gotten it in to the heads of many of our friends and neighbors that the two are a deadly mixture.
5 theater berkeley high school, “you can’t take it with you,” by  moss hart and george s. kaufman, directed by rachel rudy, at 8 p.m. at the  florence schwimley little theater.
www.auroratheatre.org film alternative visions: “superior elegy” and “sneak preview” at 7:30 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
“follow the star …” an exhibit of over 250  crèches from 70 countries, from 5 to 8 p.m. at st. clement’s
www.lapena.org san francisco saxophone quartet performs works of mozart, brubeck and  others at 4:30 p.m. at the jazzschool.
drop in to file complaints, assistance available.
it has now  been over eight weeks since that meeting, and still, there has been no action  taken by the city.
“there has been some discussion about having commission stuff come through the agenda committee,” de vries said, “but in a pretty limited way.”
suggested donation $3-$5, this is a  fund-raiser to bring the church lighting up to code.
tickets  are $22-$24.
www.ashkenaz.com splash circus, “in the magical forest” at 2 p.m. at julia  morgan center for the arts, 2640 college ave.
in particular: first, uc absolutely must conserve its printing press building at center and oxford, even if it’s reused to house the museums.
i can only suggest they come to terms with the fact that cars have been around for well over a century, that good reasons exist for their popularity, and that regrettably, the way to a achieve an exciting downtown is not by wishful thinking.
by matthew artz friday  november 28, 2003 uc berkeley’s planned downtown hotel and convention center is part  of a growing trend for uc campuses that lure cities with the promise of big tax  revenues.
with a weekend’s rest  behind him he’s using all but six percent of his brain cells.
so if you’re within the cruising range of one of berkeley’s resident cooper’s hawks, you should be able to keep stocking your feeders without too much guilt about turning your backyard finches into hawk bait.
for the 2003 holidays, these shops have gathered a wide array of  distinctive quality goods likely to please the discerning plantspersons on your  gift list.
oakland police chase once again ends in mayhem j. douglas  allen-taylor friday november 28,
“it’s wonderful to have history when you can look back and see what god has done,” williams said to the sunday morning worshipers.
and it wouldn’t  be a phony las vegas-like water “feature.”
reserve plants now; their arrival in january will chase away the post-holiday blahs and conjure up the coming, bountiful season.
the chp “briefly gave chase (according to  the chronicle) but chp supervisors quickly called off the pursuit because it  was too dangerous on city streets.”
they come in bright colors  (avocado, gold, electric blue, and burgundy), so you’ll always be able to  find them.
the rent board’s aga calculation includes 27 separate rental  property owner expenses, taxes, fees, utility costs, etc.
united auto workers local 2865, which represents approximately 13,000 university of california student teachers, graders and tutors (ases), most of them graduate students, called for the system-wide strike monday, claiming the administration has bargained in bad faith.
but he got so many facts wrong about clothes, hair styles, cars, drinking habits and music, i spent my entire critique correcting his historical errors, not his actual writing.
the public will need to be continuously educated and involved in every step of the process, online and in person, through opinionated open-door planning sessions.
these three species constituted 95 percent of the hawks’ targets.
but residents and many city officials—including councilmember linda maio and mayor tom bates—agree that rezoning the two-mile stretch is imperative.
grace north church, 2138 cedar st. 233-5065.
what would the creek do to underground parking?
her reply was measured.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/citycouncil/agenda-committee berkeley rent stabilization board meets mon., dec. 1, at 7 p.m., in city  council chambers, pam wyche 644-6128 ext.
“the first time you sleep on the streets you become obnoxiously ill within two weeks.
another problem with too much emphasis on fall color is that it reduces the opportunity for one of the benefits berkeley’s climate offers that the northeast can’t—winter flowering trees.
let us rejoice and be glad in it,” the choir sang as churchgoers stood to their feet and clapped their hands.
eckhart tolle talks on video free gathering at 7:30 p.m. to hear the words  of the author of “the power of now” at the feldenkrais ctr., 830  bancroft way.
the woman clung to her purse, causing her to fall to the pavement where a second youth tried to pull it away.
sponsored by the uu center for spiritual  development.
tickets are $30 for adults, $25 for children 3 and older, and $5 for children 2 years and under.
2 theater aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” with pacific mozart ensemble at 8 p.m. at st. mark’s church, 2300 bancroft.
if they are unable to assign grades by the semester’s end, professors may give students either a mark of ‘in progress (ip) or an option to accept a pass/fail grade, according to an e-mail from chair of the committee on courses of instruction john bishop posted on the uc berkeley website.
and in  1995 a wing was added to the church to accommodate a growing congregation and  multiple community outreach programs.
last year’s program prompted the berkeley chief of police to write a letter thanking the shelter for their help in eliminating one of the city’s largest and most residual problems.
she recalled to  me her disorientation at early rehearsals, then the pleasure of hearing  correspondences emerge between lines, phrases, themes.
grades must be submitted by three days after the test, or jan. 5 for professors with more than 50 students in a class.
by 1935 the church boasted more than 70 members and the following year moved into a larger building at 1630 fairview st.
for applications  contact the energy office at 644-8544.
8-10” long,  $13; 30” long, $25.
• large ceramic pots in jewel tones—mustard, cobalt, deep  jade—look good with the spiky leaves of phormiums.
what they envisioned was a place where people could safely stroll sidewalks and shop in attractive, prosperous stores.
sliding scale donation  $10-$15.
www.beckettsirishpub.com sunday, nov. 30 children dan zanes & friends at 3 p.m. at zellerbach hall, uc campus.
now, it takes brave souls to travel this difficult but rewarding path,  like the 11 in massachusetts or the two back in 1948, to judicially challenge  restrictive marriage laws in california.
www.beckettsirishpub.com grand unified theory, forget the jonses, the apples, the silence, static  thought at 8 p.m. at 924 gilman st., an all-ages, member-run, no alcohol, no  drugs, no violence club.
set several of these utterly charming moss stone frog musicians  from indonesia, and you have the makings of a frog gamelan (balinese musical  ensemble) for your garden.
we  will bring back memories of the mid-1970s and berkeley’s  “progressive media” folks.
i need new jeans and underwear.
cost is $17.50 advance, $18.50 at the door.
the ones at the nursery this year are imported ceramic reproductions of european gnomes that were originally produced in france, germany or england in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
over and over my classmates told me that my protagonist was a witch, a bitch and worse.
www.she-made.com bay area coalition for headwaters 10th anniversary, with food refreshments,  music and more.
in april 2001, 11 gay and lesbian couples in massachusetts applied for a marriage license.
wendy derosa and guests at the 1923 teahouse at 8 p.m. suggested donation of $7-$15.
www.bcco.org “a musical night in africa” with kotoja, west african highlife  band, new life band of tanzania, babá okulolo and the nigerian brothers,  at 8 p.m. at ashkenaz.
the inaugural meeting of the planning commission subcommittee on the new development is set for 2-4 p.m. in the sitka spruce room at 2120 milvia st. —matthew artz ccc memories sought the online civilian conservation corps museum, created to provide information on the new deal program, wants submissions to their online database.
were there hundreds of people out in a crowd, there, watching?
he said he might do some things differently from former pastors such as the order of service.
“speak for the trees” while you make holiday wrapping paper, gift tags and decorations from recycycled products, from 12:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. at tilden nature area, in tilden park.
uc botanical garden docent training at 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. fee and registration required.
www.blakesontelegraph.com monday, dec.
adrian’s music salon featuring lavender grace and teja gerken,  singer-songwriters at 8 p.m. at the jazz house.
how anyone could plan to build such a huge  structure downtown berkeley in the image of the car-dominant paradigm is beyond  me.
just build it with a sign on the roof that says it is the animal shelter and calls for volunteers.
omitted from mr. koenigshofer’s letter is any mention of the years  1990 to 1994: during that time, a real estate industry-backed rent board  majority increased berkeley’s rent levels by an unprecedented 50 percent  across the board leading to extreme hardship for many renters.
www.jazzschool.com acme observatory contemporary performance series fluxus concert featuring bibiana padillo maltos at 8 p.m. at the jazz house.
“arcadia,” by tom stoppard, performed by maybeck high school,  at 7 p.m. at oakland box theater, 1928 telegraph ave.
• large ceramic pots in jewel tones—mustard, cobalt, deep jade—look good with the spiky leaves of phormiums.
sturdy wire mesh coated with green  plastic, walnut handle, pine body.
i’m just glad it’s  done.”
when henry poole met dennis kucinich last may, politics fused with passion and technological savvy.
the berkeley animal cares services will be in the building for maybe 50 years, so you have to design it well and place it excellently.
as for white chocolate, my pct says it’s fine  if you enjoy the taste of suntan lotion.
3078 claremont avenue.
st. john's prime timers tap dancing class meets on thursday mornings at  9:15 a.m. at st. john's presbyterian church at 2717 garber st. class is free  and open to anyone over 50.
services include overnight shelter from 8 p.m. to 8 a.m., along with snacks, breakfast, and physical and mental health programs.
the only deaths have occurred after drivers have raced away from police rolling up on the events.
when i was a berkeley tenant activist in the 1970s and 1980s, i was regularly the target of landlord curses and frequently found death threats left on my answering machine.
• sickles for cutting grass and brush are better than your electric weed whip: no cord, no utility bills.
the challenge would be to create  a model vision, a pedestrian oasis and retreat for business travelers, tourists  and the rest of us.
their nests are easy to spot in winter, until  the trees leaf out and give the hawks some privacy while they incubate their  eggs and rear their young.
rob browning • animal shelter editors, daily planet: we support jill’s posener view of the berkeley animal shelter.
council sounds death knell for parcel tax vote by j. douglas  allen-taylor friday november 28, 2003 berkeley city council quietly put the lid on the coffin of the parcel tax  tuesday night, voting 5-2 to keep it off the march 2004 ballot.
at least one commission member was not mollified.
“what was discussed last week was the possibility of the agenda  committee being able to hold a report over for a week if it looks as if  there’s a commission report that was incomplete and questions needed to  be answered,” maio said.
http://botanicalgarden.berkeley.edu holiday crafts fair, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at the saturday berkeley farmers’ market, center st. at mlk, jr. way.
the city has rebuilt the median strips along the avenue and is now completing the landscaping.
www.codysbooks.com california writers’ club hosts joyce jenkins, editor of “poetry flash” at 10 a.m. at barnes and noble.
“mim [hawley] is an  optimist,” she said.
“that could actually affect how some students perform on their final.”
cost is $16 in advance, $18 at the door.
“follow the star …” an exhibit of over 250  crèches from 70 countries, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at st. clement’s  episcopal church, 2837 claremont blvd.
with  several hundred biographies already listed it has also become an important  resource for ccc veterans interested in tracking down old workmates or reliving  a part of their history.
lately, however, big namen have acquired a distinct  cachet
“we want this to serve the short-term visiting needs of scholars and family members,” he said.
“part of the ame creed is to feed the hungry,” floyd  said.
the reason, said dave fogarty, who oversees the university avenue corridor  for the city’s office of economic development, is simple: “the city  did not implement the plan.”
in both the chronicle and the tribune stories, the california highway  patrol have been cruising the oakland streets of late to help oakland police  crackdown on “sideshow” activities.
very dense cities in europe do it and these city governments also manage to efficiently implement planned pedestrian/public-transportation-only urban centers in cramped and much more heavily regulated circumstances.
police raise funds to donate holiday meals by matthew artz friday november 28, 2003 the officer slipped out of his black-and-white police cruiser and strode  up to a south berkeley home.
in his book on al qaeda, holy war, peter bergen said of the mogadishu battle: “a u.s. official told me that the skills involved in shooting down those helicopters were not skills that the somalis could have learned on their own.”
a list of  shining stars from recent years would include peter apfelbaum, will bernard,  dave ellis, rodney franklin, kito gamble, benny green, david murray, lenny  pickett, josh redman, michael wolff, and hitomi oba.
other uc developments offer cities the same revenue streams, but the money  doesn’t necessarily materialize.
it’s not now charming,  pastoral or particularly interesting.
the board expressed their admiration for our  neighborhoods’ willingness to tackle this difficult problem.
and the chase was not always triggered by sight of the quarry: four hawks staged surprise attacks on empty feeders, which must have been productive in the past.
and uc’s exemption from local zoning  would deny the public any control over the parcel’s future  development.
while it has been our experience that all the agencies—department of health, code enforcement, neighborhood services and the zab— have been sympathetic and kind, our problem is still across the street and out patience has worn thin.
www.blakesontelegraph.com sterling dervish at 9:30 p.m. at beckett’s irish pub, 2271 shattuck ave.
www.blakesontelegraph.com nicole mcrory at 9:30 p.m. at beckett’s irish pub, 2271 shattuck ave.
it’s funny, though, but i don’t hear similar arguments being  offered for the importation of other memorable reminders of northeastern  weather—slush and snow, ice storms, humid summers, or swarms of biting  flies and midges, for instance.
in ithaca, ny— a much smaller city with absolutely greater downtown appeal than berkeley— there is a wonderful pedestrian mall that functions as it was designed to and has blossomed over the years since its creation into a diverse and profitable business open space and has year-round heavily attended community functions.
tabor got up extra early on the morning of nov. 16, the day williams  gave his first sermon as st. paul’s pastor.
jutta singh first came to delano,  california, as a high school exchange student from berlin.
snowcamping, an introduction at 7 pm, at rei, 1338 san pablo ave.
a necktie with an edward munch  print—could it be more obvious?
“we’ve moved more toward meeting the needs of the community,” she said.
www.freightandsalvage.org s.t.f.u., the lewd, words that burn, crop knox, eskapo at 8 p.m. at 924 gilman st. cost is $5.
to do this, the  state requires the city to make exceptions to zoning  regulations—including height restrictions—francis said.
it was disconcerting and sobering to learn that he considered me, the perky co-ed sitting beside him, a representative of an ancient and extinct culture.
“we can’t sustain the system for long without some sort of government subsidy.”
animal shelters are part  of our community, they enhance an area, they encourage children to learn about  animals.
buy an assortment of premium european chocolate bars  and include them in a gift basket along with scharffen berger selections.
taking aim at community statements against the proposed tax, many of which  were expressed at city council’s one and only public hearing on the  measure last week, hawley said, “you can’t really gauge the support  or lack of support for a measure by the people who come to a single public  hearing.”
“no one wants low-income housing in their neighborhood, so it gets dumped on university avenue,” he said.
his service to  al qaeda is clear and admitted; it is not clear that he has done anything to  benefit the united states.
in any event, mr. brown was arrested by officers at the accident, and  charged with felony drunk driving.
parking is free and is handicapped accessible.
it is of course easy in retrospect to challenge the wisdom of having  imparted such skills to jihad-waging islamists.
wendy derosa and guests at the 1923 teahouse at 8 p.m.
www.pillsprofitsprotest.org tibetan buddhism, abbe blum on “personal transitions as new beginnings” at 6 p.m. at the tibetan nyingma institute, 1815 highland pl.
mainly,  because i hardly ever get any.
“mim [hawley] is an optimist,” she said.
once a uc berkeley undergrad in  composition, he’s now teaching at yale.
lifelong medical, berkeley’s care provider for uninsured residents, could also receive increased funds from the tax measure.
we think of hawks as creatures of the wild, but some have adapted handily  to city life.
youth homeless  shelter can coordinate shuttle services, certainly funds for comfortable free  shuttles to and from periphery parking can happen for commuters and visitors  arriving via auto from out of town.
we have, cassandra-like, suggested in editorials that  things were not going well for tax supporters.
open since nov. 10, the facility provides both a general occupancy  area and a reserved area for families or people with disabilities.
we need someone we can trust, who doesn’t put corporate  interests above human rights.
it has required two appearances before the zoning adjustments board, hours of neighborhood organizing, countless phone calls and letters, and coordination of the city’s agencies for the entire time.
org/benefitconcert.htm “maybe monday” performs an improvisational response to helen mirra’s matrix exhibition at 6 p.m. in gallery 1, berkeley art museum, 2626 bancroft way.
he then drove to oakland.
in june of 2003 the new city agency “code enforcement”  finally took an interest.
• sickles for cutting grass and brush are better than your electric  weed whip: no cord, no utility bills.
www.epicarts.org good for cows and karla kihlstedt perform modern jazz at 8 p.m. at the jazz  house.
a large (18” diameter) lethal  golden pincushion studded with 2” long spikes.
if there’s a member of your crowd tormented by an affliction similar to mine, let me suggest a few chocolate delicacies to consider for holiday gift-giving.
and several telegraph avenue  vendors told leyden they’d noticed a decline in the numbers of transients  on the street.
tabor has been a  member of st. paul since 1943, and is known around the church as “granma  tabor.”
conducted by william ludtke with organist  lynn finegan and soloists.
designed to be screwed onto a hose, they are made in wisconsin and have brass fittings, an on-off shut-off valve, and a heavy-to-light spray feature.
scharffen berger chocolate bars come in various sizes and blends and are  widely available locally, from the elmwood pharmacy (at russell & college,  where i get my fix) to the company’s factory store (914 heinz ave.).
www.codysbooks.com music and dance california bach society, “christmas vespers” by francisco  guerrero, at 8 p.m. at st. john’s presbyterian church, 2727 college ave.
i’m  supposed to wear low cut levis that expose the top of my thong when i bend  forward a fraction of an inch.
to the health of pedestrians?
or was mr. brown simply out there spinning a donut on his own (which east oaklanders have been doing for a couple of decades, by the way, most often unrelated to what people define as sideshows)?
corner pocket at 8 p.m. at jupiter.
this fanciful, 10-liter watering can in the shape of a frog will make you smile.
county supervisors have feuded with the center’s county-appointed  board of trustees this year over the budget deficit.
color me  winter green.
city staffers blame a slumping economy and in-house turnover, while many residents blame the city’s interpretation of a state affordable housing law that allows developers to avoid height limits, parking mandates and other design features.
“we’ve never had a line-by-line review of expenditures and  revenues,” carson said, adding that the estimated $86 million deficit  could be lower if state reimbursements have not been received.
with a straight face, this councilmember told his colleagues the three percent difference was actually a 50 percent gap (three being 50 percent of six, right?).
“it is more dense than acton court, and the next project will be more  dense than this one.
we are an inclusive scout group for high schoolers-college boys and girls.
episcopal church 2837 claremont blvd.
neither side would discuss contract details, but mehta said that the sticking point remained a university demand that that the uaw agrees to a stipulation barring them from participating in sympathy strikes.
www.bcco.org mimosas and music, a recital of 17th century german, italian and french  music at 11 a.m. at giorgi gallery, 2911 claremont ave.
you do the job and we’ll support you in any kind of a tax measure,’” he said.
lemurs like to jump on this plant’s  thick stem, which grows to 6 feet and is covered with little green heart-shaped  leaves growing in vertical rows amidst substantial spines.
the woman clung to her purse, causing her to fall to the pavement where a  second youth tried to pull it away.
“but because it sounded good on  paper, the city went ahead with it.”
behind the  scenes, among berkeley progressives who understood what was really going on,  that piece was greeting with much gnashing of teeth.
as maio and others point out, state housing law allowing greater density to bolster financially viable affordable housing development has hamstrung the city’s plans.
between 19th and 20th  sts.
yet he still managed to kick off st. paul’s new radio ministry.
“that could actually affect how  some students perform on their final.”
volunteer trainings will take place from 7 to 9:30 p.m. tonight, and also on dec. 9.
we can start, now, with more and better open public conversations  about what’s gone wrong.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu music and dance a cornucopia concert for thanksgiving, 17th century music, performed on  period instruments by tekla cunningham and anthony martin, baroque violins, and  jonathan shane davis, harpsichord, at 8 p.m. at musicsources, 1000 the alameda,  at marin.
for more information on other emergency and existing shelters services, contact jane micallef with the city of berkeley.
so we’ve had another  drunk-driving-police-chase-“sideshow” automobile injury accident  out in east oakland.
jamie davis sings music of the masters with an emphasis on romance at 8  p.m. at the jazzschool.
designed to be screwed onto a hose,  they are made in wisconsin and have brass fittings, an on-off shut-off valve,  and a heavy-to-light spray feature.
how  many die from drunk driving accidents in a year?
so will many from sacramento and even los angeles, especially if family members are with them.
hot chocolate guess which is healthier for you: red wine, green tea or hot  chocolate?
uc botanical garden garden shop, 200 centennial drive.
i think it’s an autonomous agenda.”
this is a significant art deco structure—and the u.n. charter was printed there.
ases have been without a contract since oct. 1 and negotiations conducted  by a state mediator broke down two weeks ago over university demands that the  union pledge not to engage in future sympathy strikes.
meanwhile, any  direction you go, developers are throwing money at buildings that have been  vacant for years.
and i’m sure it was during the hours i filled turning the  pages of à la recherche du temps perdu that i became acutely aware of  the malevolent intentions of gift-givers.
asked by councilmember betty olds if “companies are clamoring for this,” a. robin orden, a city senior management analyst, told council that staff “recently held a meeting with local companies, and some of them showed interest.
the squatters have been living in this mobile home and in a second vehicle, an  equally tattered rv, since may. the property, located in the 2800 block of san pablo avenue, has been our  neighborhood’s eyesore for four years.
eucalyptus, acacia and melalucas are all good examples.
youth homeless shelter can coordinate shuttle services, certainly funds for comfortable free shuttles to and from periphery parking can happen for commuters and visitors arriving via auto from out of town.
there’s no way that the city won’t have to go to local taxpayers for more money, probably in november 2004, in competition with the schools, who are also suffering.
“if the mayor and councilmembers have to write to the newspaper [about getting the plan implemented,] what are we supposed to do?” asked ifshin.
“a good campaign needs volunteers who are pretty passionate about the topic,” maio said.
the university and the future developer  could be recognized as visionaries world-wide, if it was designed with green  principles built in; not just in the building materials, but how the hotel and  convention center is operated.
it appears the hawks were using fairly sophisticated mental maps to maneuver through their territories.
tickets are $35, dinner and panel, $10 panel only, available from 525-3948.
2 writer’s room needs volunteers to help students improve their writing  and critical thinking skills.
uc ownership would deny the city important property tax revenue.
he was wearing a navy blue windbreaker.
leyden said last year’s shelter was so successful that they were  able to re-open this year with even more support, though with an estimated  budget of $60,000 they’re still short $25,000.
“it’s a huge group of people working around the country on free software, which is a very important issue,” he says, quiet enthusiasm evident in his voice.
5 “the streets are watching” a film by jacob crawford on police accountability through the eyes of three communities: denver, cincinnati and berkeley.
9/11 truth alliance forum at 7 p.m. at the fellowship of humanity, 390 27th st., oakland.
students report endless hassles from u.s. consular employees when they apply for visas, even in countries like china with very little logical connection to fears of terrorism.
i can think of three  reasons.”
in his book on al qaeda, holy war, peter bergen said of the mogadishu  battle: “a u.s. official told me that the skills involved in shooting  down those helicopters were not skills that the somalis could have learned on  their own.”
www.freightandsalvage.org sterling highway, the zachary tree, hazel at 9:30 p.m. at blakes on telegraph.
[tuesday dec. 2] in a  program by composers inc.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/energy city meetings council agenda committee meets mon., dec. 1, at 2:30 p.m., at 2180 milvia  st., sherry m. kelly, city clerk, 981-6900.
their study area was terre haute, indiana, which, dissimilar as it may be to berkeley in most respects, does sustain its own population of wintering hawks.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/commissions/landmarks letters to the editor playing percentages editors, daily planet: that demented little coterie who have nothing better to do on tuesday  nights than to follow city council meetings got a rare dose of comic relief at  a recent public hearing when one councilmember tried to snooker his colleagues  with some statistical legerdemain.
“i found in the past, when the university avenue plan goes counter to growth orientation, there’s no incentive on the part of staff to cause things for less growth,” he said.
assemble at 11:50 a.m. at the bank of america across from the powell  street bart.
berkeley biodiesel cooperative orientation at 7:30 p.m.
diana darby and sonya hunter at the 1923 teahouse at 8 p.m.
sunday, nov. 30 berkeley artisans open studios for a map of participating studios call 845-2612.
a day after the mayor said he was unwilling to consider renewing the parcel tax sometime down the road after march of next year, he left the door open again.
www.lapena.org john gorka, folk troubador, at 8 p.m. at freight and salvage.
one is left to speculate…) encountered the accident scene on 98th avenue near interstate 880, authorities said.”
it happens to everyone,” said marz, one of the many  young transients who consistently line telegraph avenue.
www.blakesontelegraph.com jules broussard, bing nathan and ned boynton at 8 p.m. at downtown.
frankly, all those  folks that mim says are for it, i haven’t encountered them.
the gap between six and nine is just three percent out of your total hundred.
in this context, green and red are not political ideologies but, rather, the colors of street trees at this time of year.
she said that while st. paul has seen different pastors and different members, different locations and different music over the years, no matter how st. paul changes, she’s not going anywhere.
from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. at la peña cultural center, 3105 shattuck ave.
but he wants to omit its underground garage, bring strawberry creek to the surface, and close off center street as a “pedestrian mall.”
diana darby and sonya hunter at the 1923 teahouse at 8 p.m. suggested donation of $7-$15, no one turned away for lack of funds.
at 6 p.m. at twist restaurant,  495 10th st. oakland.
• ceramic toadstools from england and from the united states add a  beautiful touch of whimsy to a garden.
uc berkeley spokeswoman carol hyman said administrators were working on contingency plans, but refused to speculate on potential impacts.
crafts include blown glass, functional and  decorative ceramics, ornaments, menorahs, clocks, lamps and lighting, painted  and custom furniture, garden art, bird houses, egg dioramas, floor cloths,  clothing, textiles, jewelry, sculpture, photography, paintings, original  prints, and other works on paper.
urban areas can serve as breeding or wintering grounds for them.
if they get all their funding, she said, they’ll be open seven days a week through march.
lastly but not leastly, larry ochs, fred frith, and miya masaoka will be at the free gallery, 2575 bancroft way between college and telegraph in berkeley at 6:00 p.m. on thursday dec. 4.
some of the ame church’s missions include “feeding the hungry,” “clothing the naked” and “housing the homeless.”
the insides of these water-smoothed granite rocks have been hollowed out and sealed.
and, if memory serves, it was one windy, fall  day that i literally stumbled over proust and my life changed.
one trainer of the somalis, egyptian-born ali mohamed, was also a veteran of u.s. special forces and the cia.
last sunday, he and churchgoers celebrated st. paul’s 70th anniversary in berkeley.
a fair number of evergreen trees thrive in berkeley and bloom in the late winter or early spring, which can come as early as february in some years.
and, if memory serves, it was one windy, fall day that i literally stumbled over proust and my life changed.
thomas myers, acting manager of berkeley’s office of economic  development, said much has already been done on university avenue.
back in berlin, she got the dream job of showing international visitors  her city’s many cultural attractions, but she never forgot california.
if the 160-foot monopole antennae proves to have the same communications  coverage as the existing 160-foot antennae tower, it would allay the concerns  of city public safety officials about cutting back on communications  efficiency.
the united states in  afghanistan, colombia, and indochina (rowman and littlefield, 2003).
in her ward street home in berkeley, tabor has boxes of old  pictures and yellowed programs from services that date back as far as the  1960s.
in other words, the training that the united states supplied to islamists in the afghan war in the 1980s, when the emphasis was on bringing down soviet helicopters, is still coming back to haunt the united states today.
and this whole discussion started much too late anyway.
415-262-0272 or tickets@calbach.org sweet honey in the rock, female a cappella group, at 8 p.m. at zellerbach hall, uc campus.
people interested in volunteering or making tax deductible donations to yeah!
solar electricity for your home now you can produce your own electricity  and “sell” the excess back to pg&e, running your meter  backwards!
the next scheduled concert for the berkeley high jazz band and combos is not here in berkeley, but will be the csus winter jazz festival in sacramento on saturday, dec. 13.
lori zook, executive director of o.o.t., has been struck by the strange, canny craftsmanship of stein’s text and lyrics.
“besides, we don’t need that much time.
www.accigallery.com tea at four enjoy some of the best teas from the other side of the pacific  rim and learn their cultural and natural history.
holiday kwanzaa and christmas gift show to encourage patronage of black businesses at the oakland marriott convention center, 550-10th street, oakland, fri. - sun.
what i found surprised me.
as bowden wrote, it was these arabs who taught that the best way  to bring down a helicopter with an rpg was to shoot for the tail rotor (which  keeps the helicopter from spinning by countering torque from its main rotor).
www.calperfs.berkeley.edu splash circus, “in the magical forest” at 2 p.m. at julia morgan center for the arts, 2640 college ave.
on the contrary: last tuesday  this same facetious fellow read a parody of a sophomore research paper  purporting to offer a hilariously protracted tangle of statistics as an  argument against instant run-off voting.
you may have already noticed that on some of berkeley’s major commercial streets, including shattuck avenue, replacing evergreen street trees with deciduous species has been the trend in recent years.
people using wheelchairs that can’t be folded can’t use taxis  currently operating out of berkeley and must either use ac transit buses  equipped with motorized lifts or schedule transportation with east bay  paratransit services, a joint consortium of ac transit and the bay area rapid  transit district.
typically, humanities students who receive less independent funding than science students are more likely to strike.
“we can’t just do our work within our walls,” said floyd, who works as the church’s public-relations officer.
women in black vigil, from noon to 1 p.m. at uc berkeley, bancroft at telegraph.
the tax—which needs two-thirds approval from county voters—would raise the sales tax to 8.75 percent, catapulting alameda county past san francisco for the highest sales tax rates in state.
at that moment, 18 years old, i felt that i was indeed a  citizen of the world, even though i’d never been farther from the u.s.  than tijuana.
the cooper in question was a 19th century naturalist, co-founder of the new york lyceum of natural history.
theater aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” in collaboration  with pacific mozart ensemble at 8 p.m. at st. mark’s church, 2300  bancroft.
the insides of these water-smoothed granite rocks  have been hollowed out and sealed.
a necktie with an edward munch print—could it be more obvious?
visitors could be educated and inspired by their  berkeley experience when they return home.
letters to the editor exciting potential editors, daily planet: the hotel and convention center proposed by uc and the mayor of berkeley
noting that the discussions occurred during a six-month  review of the agenda committee, de vries said one proposal would give the  agenda committee the ability to move an individual commission report from the  consent calendar—which is passed with no individual discussion—to  the action calendar, where questions or debate occur.
magic gardens, 729 heinz ave.
charles siegel • voters not stingy editors, daily planet: i deeply resent mr. artz’s uncalled-for editorial comment about “berkeley’s increasingly stingy voters” in a purported news story about the woes of the animal shelter.
i think what the city can afford to put in they have been  able to put in.”
whatever happens in the election, poole’s not about to give up.
the subject was the narrow difference in  effective radio transmission between the controversial public safety building  communications tower and a proposed alternative.
he thinks “maybe the hotel can get by with minimal  parking.”
scharffenberger and partner robert steinberg moved their doubly eponymous  scharffen berger chocolate business to berkeley a couple of years ago and their  pure dark chocolate rivals that fabricated by the creme de la creme of  continental chocolatiers.
poole says the democrats won’t be able to pick a candidate until the convention, and “there’s a lot going to happen between now and then.
the other side is approving a plan that had so many complicated, expensive implementation measures that it was never possible to implement it anyway,” fogarty said.
according to the university’s own projections of an average room price of $130 and a 65 percent occupancy rate in 2006, the hotel would generate roughly $730,080 in hotel taxes its first year of operation.
she said he also plans to develop a program to help find permanent housing for the homeless individuals that the church serves.
undeniably, their sole purpose is to control the lives of the recipients of their largesse.
cost is  $15.50 advance, $16.50 at the door.
watered, they get covered with moss.
the city was willing to pay the price—the hundreds of thousands of dollars spent as consultants, residents, merchants and property owners met with city staff over the next two years.
• vegan fertilizer (no s---!).
benefits junior league of oakland-east bay community projects.
by all means daylight the full length of strawberry creek.
carl mcdonald with blazing fire band, the caribbean groovers steel band, with special guests mr. major-p and razor blade at 9:30 p.m. at ashkenaz.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu readings and lectures joe sacco introduces his graphic novel, “the fixer,” about war  correspondents at 7:30 p.m. at cody’s books.
“my mother teaches philosophy and religion at university of science and arts of oklahoma,” he explains, a liberal arts college 40 miles south of oklahoma city.
the city also stands to collect possessory interest taxes—a poorer sister to the property taxes that the university, as a state entity, doesn’t have to pay.
(a dollar per bulb) mount them on japanese river stones ($4.50/lb.) or tumbled glass—beautiful, rounded, icy-pale aqua or white pieces of glass ($4.15/lb.), in a vessel of your choice.
cost is $7, $5 with  student i.d. 841-2082.
only councilmember maude shirek supported hawley’s efforts to keep the parcel tax on the march ballot, while dona spring and kriss worthington, abstained.
berkeley downtown is loud and dirty.
tom brown • wishful thinking editors, daily planet: steve geller’s letter (“planning ahead,” daily planet, nov. 25-27) makes some good points about the exciting new possibilities for a hotel, conference center, art museums, etc. in downtown berkeley.
11 a.m. to 6 p.m., fri.
by all means daylight the full length of  strawberry creek.
meet  at 3:30 p.m. on the west side of chevy’s restaurant at the public shore  sign for an hour’s walk through the emeryville marina with views of san  francisco and the golden gate bridge.
“but i just wanted to be there when reverend  williams came back for his first service.”
7 holiday festival: arts and crafts show and sale paintings, photography, crafts and greeting cards on view and on sale, from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
it has now been over eight weeks since that meeting, and still, there has been no action taken by the city.
if there’s a member of your crowd tormented by an affliction similar  to mine, let me suggest a few chocolate delicacies to consider for holiday  gift-giving.
egret@lmi.net prisoner visitation and support, an introduction to the interfaith independent visitation program at 12:30 p.m. at berkeley friends meeting, 2152 vine st. at the corner of walnut.
if jutta’s not familiar with the composer’s work, she reads up on it and listens to it, so that the bouquet can symbolize what the piece expresses.
we will be  installing creek-side plants from native here nursery and the regional parks  botanic garden.
officers must use vacation time to cover the ride, and they pay the $125  expenses out of their own pockets, but it’s all worth it when they get to  hand out the meals.
for example, in the late 1980s, after some members noticed that some black students in berkeley city schools were not performing well on standardized tests, st. paul developed a saturday school program that offered free tutoring to students in various subjects, including mathematics and language.
by joe eaton  special to the planet friday november 28, 2003 it’s happened more than once, but i’m still not used to it:  looking down from my dining room window as a cooper’s hawk flies up the  driveway.
supervisor keith carson said he hoped an independent financial audit due  out next week will uncover possible savings to preserve services slated for the  chopping block.
the university and the future developer could be recognized as visionaries world-wide, if it was designed with green principles built in; not just in the building materials, but how the hotel and convention center is operated.
drought-tolerant, rare and unusual plants, many notable for their striking,  e.g. elegant, amusing, just plain weird, form and color.
“my main desire, what i believe the city needs to do, is to have a  vision broader than just housing, so we will not have groups divided on the  avenue,” she said.
the  resources are there.
in the meantime,  he says, he’s been sleeping behind buildings and doing his best to stay  healthy.
if they are unable to assign  grades by the semester’s end, professors may give students either a mark  of ‘in progress (ip) or an option to accept a pass/fail grade, according  to an e-mail from chair of the committee on courses of instruction john bishop  posted on the uc berkeley website.
it might not sound like much, but this year marz has an escape—at  least for part of the year—at a new shelter called yeah!, which stands  for youth emergency assistance hostel.
peter dale scott is a former canadian diplomat and professor of english at  uc berkeley.
for  information and directions call 525-1272.
in these exchanges that often come to resemble kindergarten conversations, i’ve come to this conclusion about the motivation of berkeley’s reds: they have an idealized view of fall as it’s experienced in the american northeast and they want it here, too.
st. paul also has an hiv/aids awareness program and hosts a narcotics anonymous group that meets every saturday, floyd said.
www.lapena.org crater performs modern jazz at 8 p.m. at the jazz house.
at the same meeting, council voted to place all of the electoral change  measures on the march 2004 ballot, including adding filing fees and/or  signature requirements to run for office in berkeley, lowering the percentage  needed for a candidate to win, lengthening the time between elections and  runoffs, and authorizing council to adopt instant runoff voting in the city  once it becomes legally and economically feasible.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu poetry flash with clayton eshelman at 7:30 p.m. at cody’s books.
www.starryploughpub.com bizar bazaar at 9 p.m. at jupiter.
it’s an enormous problem.
www.auroratheatre.org film alternative visions: “superior elegy” and “sneak  preview” at 7:30 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
in defense of same sex marriage mary ager tuesday  december 02, 2003 editors, daily planet: the road leading to full inclusion of gay civil marriage in california  state law has been marked with detours to the land of “domestic  partnership.”
those of us who always envisaged the new animal shelter there did so because of the high visibility without encroaching on a residential area.
next week the center will present county supervisors plans for $53 million in further cuts, including elimination of another 176 positions, ending all specialty care at outpatient clinics, and closing a cardiac ward and obstetrician services at highland, a psychiatric ward at john george, and a nursing home at fairmont.
and let’s not forget the vast cookie, cracker, biscuit and biscotti  categories, with even madeleines available chocolate-dipped.
the department has already completed some crime analysis along the corridor, but the report now in the works will scrutinize the corridor as a whole.
but residents and many city officials—including councilmember linda  maio and mayor tom bates—agree that rezoning the two-mile stretch is  imperative.
police ask that anyone with information about  the crime call the sex crimes unit at 981-5735.
however,  “we need to implement the strategic plan.”
nancy ellis downtown editors, daily planet: mr. geller’s development vision of downtown berkeley is mostly  appropriate and quite achievable (letters, daily planet, nov. 25-27).
ecology center, 2530 san pablo  ave, near dwight way.
remember, go in peace.
“it has been a haven,” she said, adding that st. paul gives people a chance to worship god through self-expression.
the reason, said dave fogarty, who oversees the university avenue corridor for the city’s office of economic development, is simple: “the city did not implement the plan.”
by peter dale scott  pacific news service tuesday december 02, 2003 the recent downing of u.s. black hawk helicopters in iraq is yet another  example of how the aid supplied by the cia to islamist terrorists in the 1980s  has contributed to the escalation and spread of terrorism everywhere in the  world.
today st. paul has almost 1,000 members who gather to worship in its $1.5  million sanctuary.
(the nearest  supplier of authentic angelina’s hot chocolate mix i could find was the  café society in napa; 1000 main st., (707)256-3232.)
berkeley briefs tuesday december 02, 2003 planners ponder uc hotel berkeley residents and planning commissioners will get their first crack  tuesday afternoon to quiz uc berkeley officials about the proposed university  hotel and convention center slated for downtown berkeley.
tickets are $10, $5 with student i.d. aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for dec. 1.
their laminated, high-carbon steel blades will stay nice and sharp.
“that woke me up about the lack of privacy we all have,” he  says.
beyond the  clogged gutters and endless raking that result, the trees are barren during the  winter.
micallef says the additional programs are useful for emergency use, but  are only a partial fix for the city’s long-running homelessness  problem.
“it’s not something we get to usually do.”
executive director sharon hawkins leyden, a licensed clinical social  worker, says the shelter fills a need for many of berkeley’s homeless  youth who have refused to stay at other shelters around the area, which they  say are overrun by other groups.
“i think that the commissions can evaluate what would have been appropriate for that site like they would have done in the beginning had it gone through the correct process,” said councilmember linda maio.
to order tickets call 925-284-3740 or visit the junior  league website at www.jloeb.org holiday plant sale and wreath making at 10:30 a.m. at the botanical garden,  200 centennial dr. 643-2755.
the  city was willing to pay the price—the hundreds of thousands of dollars  spent as consultants, residents, merchants and property owners met with city  staff over the next two years.
many colors and sizes.
as a real estate industry professional associated with a berkeley-based  firm, i can appreciate what apparently motivates mr. koenigshofer’s ad  hominin polemical attacks against both the elected rent board’s policies,  and the city’s 1980 voter-approved rent stabilization ordinance, which  regulates nearly 20,000 rent controlled units citywide.
to put it on the voters and to spend all that money...
choose from a wide assortment of buddhas and kwan yis (the female  form of the buddha of compassion), available in architectural resin, cement or  laval rock, in varied colors.
to boost revenue, the center is seeking to improve services to attract  insured patients, but two of the more profitable departments, cardiac and  obstetrics, are slated for cuts.
the next scheduled concert  for the berkeley high jazz band and combos is not here in berkeley, but will be  the csus winter jazz festival in sacramento on saturday, dec. 13.
so will  many from sacramento and even los angeles, especially if family members are  with them.
for information call 848-0237.
but if the city forecloses other relief, it is the course we’ll  be forced to take.”
of the three unions pledging sympathy strikes, cue, the university’s  largest union representing approximately 2,800 uc berkeley clerical workers,  appears most likely to exacerbate logistical difficulties stemming from the  planned student instructor strike.
in  response, the l.a. city council instituted a temporary ban on police chases for  minor traffic violations.
in april 2001, 11 gay and lesbian couples in massachusetts applied for a  marriage license.
3 theater aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for dec. 1.
the gardeners of the greater berkeley area are doubly fortunate.
www.beckettsirishpub.com george pederson and his pretty good band at 9:30 p.m. at the starry plough.
“through our e-mail discussion, i learned that kucinich was going to  be in san francisco in may, so we went to his town hall meeting on the 24th and  i heard him speak.
www.penoakland.org read the night sky!
the rules that are being broken in our area can be broken  in the rest of berkeley, despite more stringent zoning.”
9/11 truth alliance forum at 7 p.m. at the fellowship of humanity, 390 27th  st., oakland.
however, several berkeley citizens using the service, including  councilmember dona spring, said east bay paratransit rides must be scheduled at  least 24 hours in advance.
to do this, the state requires the city to make exceptions to zoning regulations—including height restrictions—francis said.
between 19th and 20th sts.
it has to be where the human community is, so people will have a daily dose of dog or cat, because it is so soothing.
jutta singh first came to delano, california, as a high school exchange student from berlin.
for every problem, it has been my experience, there is a  multiplicity of satisfying and exemplary solutions.
transit has faced increasing challenges,  required more and more subsidies, and been compelled to reduce service.
chamber music sundaes, san francisco symphony musicians and friends perform beethoven trio, debussy and beethoven cello sonatas, vaughan williams quintet at 3:15 p.m. at st. john’s presbyterian church, 2727 college ave.
well, that’s something you should have questioned a long time ago.”
“but we are here to be an education center.”
yoga for seniors at the berkeley city club, 2315 durant st., on saturdays from 10 to 11 a.m.
her father is old, she said, and was originally from algeria.
but in march 2002  the same technique was used again effectively by al qaeda and taliban remnants  in afghanistan.
council also required that nothing would be spent for outside consultants on the upcoming study without council’s specific say-so.
student instructors also walked out before finals in 1992.
with its substantial trunk and mophead of yellow daisies, this california native—three feet high at maturity—would be right at home in a dr. seuss illustration.
it  can’t be in an out-of-the-way place.
and when it comes to edible gifts, nothing beats chocolate.
mehta insisted that more than half of uc  berkeley’s 2,200 ases honored picket lines in october—though the  university estimated that number at fewer than 50 percent.
it never fails to amaze me how often contemporary human behavior can be described in terms of what i can remember from the old stories i learned fifty years ago.
there was a very modest discussion of whether or not contracts should be  re-negotiated, but it took place in the council’s afternoon rump session,  mostly behind closed doors, with a very short public session held only after  councilmember worthington insisted.
composers on the rest of this  program are alejandro escuer, arthur krieger, kevin beavers, paul barsom, with  berkeley opera’s own jonathan khuner conducting.
while allegedly still on the u.s. payroll, mohamed had been recruiting and training arabs for the u.s.-supported afghan war, at the al-kifah center in brooklyn, n.y.
the series is taught by christopher shein of wildheart gardens, an edible, native, medicinal and other useful plant permaculture nursery.
all work is handcrafted, many pieces are  one-of-a-kind.
they’re also concerned about what they consider oversized buildings dominating the corridor, which runs west from oxford street to interstate 80 and is bounded by delaware street to the north and allston way to the south.
raleigh’s (generation dean youth meeting), 2438  telegraph ave.; sweet basil thai restaurant, 1736 solano ave.
these were extremists who, even at the time, made it clear they despised the west almost as much as they did the soviet union.
de vries added that the agenda committee may want to look at either  speeding up placement of commission reports on the council agenda, or delaying  it “by no more than one week” for the purpose of coordination with  other action being taken by council.
cost is $18.50 in advance, $19.50 at the door.
two years later, in the aftermath of the knight initiative that passed defining marriage as being between a man and a woman, another law was enacted that allowed twelve new domestic partner rights.
from 10 a.m. to 5  p.m. at the building education center, 812 page st. cost is $75.
but maio says it’s now time for the city to finally move forward on the plan.
savant guard at 9 p.m. at jupiter.
www.auroratheatre.org readings and lectures
it’s nice that yoshi’s is continuing to work with jazz in flight on their monday night series; this writer hopes they will reconsider their jitters when it comes to booking local artists at the venue.
bay area poets coalition holds an open reading from 3 to 5 p.m. at the south branch berkeley public library, 1901 russell st. 527-9905.
the meals were enough to feed eight, with the fixings paid for by the  $8,000 raised by the 11 bike riders from the berkeley and uc berkeley police  departments and the turkeys donated by safeway.
on the other  side are residents who want housing that maintains neighborhood character.
www.epicarts.org good for cows and karla kihlstedt perform modern jazz at 8 p.m. at the jazz house.
“images of mary in art: the black madonna” with china galland, director of the images of divinity project at the graduate theological union, at 7:30 p.m. at all souls episcopal church, 2220 cedar st. 848-1755.
roth and lima set out to document what kind of prey  cooper’s hawks hunted in an urban setting, and how they went about it.
so if you’re within the cruising range of one of berkeley’s  resident cooper’s hawks, you should be able to keep stocking your feeders  without too much guilt about turning your backyard finches into hawk bait.
is this councilman suggesting we roll back to the days when only white male landowners have the right to vote? david heller • giving it away editors, daily planet: in a nov. 25 letter, steve geller praises uc’s proposed hotel/convention/museum megaplex on center street.
when the victim got up and showed them the empty wallet, the would-be robbers fled.
a recent study by biologists timothy roth iii and steven lima, published in the condor (the journal of the cooper ornithological society, a group named for the son of the hawk’s namesake) suggests the story is more complicated than that.
marz says he’ll head to the shelter once it opens.
(“red tape snares  animal shelter,” daily planet, nov. 25-27).
during the same period, for example, the following aga components remained flat or increased: city business license (0 percent), street lighting (0 percent), lead abatement (0 percent), insurance (1.6 percent), school bonds (1.6 percent) and property taxes (2 percent), to list a few items.
“we’ll be better organized for sure,” said uaw local spokesperson rajan mehta, adding that strikers planned to place a picket line outside the tang health center so “nurses will have something not to cross.”
the public employment relations board (perb) will  ultimately settle the charges.
from my personal experiences, when  people see this man, they experience a sense of hope that wasn’t there  before.
the tax—which needs two-thirds approval from county  voters—would raise the sales tax to 8.75 percent, catapulting alameda  county past san francisco for the highest sales tax rates in state.
available from 525-3948.
in other words, the training that the united states supplied  to islamists in the afghan war in the 1980s, when the emphasis was on bringing  down soviet helicopters, is still coming back to haunt the united states today.
“and it’s brought up  now because things have gone wrong.”
i’m supposed to wear low cut levis that expose the top of my thong when i bend forward a fraction of an inch.
long before the squatters moved in, we had been trying to gain the city of  berkeley’s interest in the property’s numerous and ongoing  problems.
it would be a natural  feature long covered by a busy street.
right before finals by matthew artz friday november 28, 2003 uc berkeley student instructors plan to strike the week of dec. 1, just  before final exams—potentially leaving students without last-minute  instruction or final grades.
filled with a variety  of succulents that will spill over the edge, they make a simple but dramatic  planting.
people interested in volunteering or making tax deductible donations to  yeah!
helen ettlinger xxxxxxxxxx editors, daily planet: in his op-ed commentary (“public demands tax accountability for tax  payments,” daily planet, nov. 21-24), john koenigshofer again perpetuates  the myth of thousands of “untaxed” berkeley renters who don’t  contribute to owner property tax obligations.
“[our current fiscal crisis] shouldn’t stop us from doing the right thing when we’re able to do it.”
applications are available from the environment, health &  safety office of uc berkeley, at any berkeley fire station, or at the fire  admin.
a hearing was later scheduled oct. 5 before the  zoning adjustments board.
police withheld further details.
cooper’s hawks bring city a touch of wildness
“i have to remind myself not to be jealous  just because i can’t move,” she said laughing.
three university unions—the coalition of university employees (cue), the california nurses association (cna) and the university professional and technical employees, (upte-cwa)—have called for sympathy strikes, creating still more logistical problems for the university.
for more information call arden pierce at 650-494-1631.
www.starryploughpub.com music and dance university chorus noon concert at international house, at the corner of  bancroft and piedmont aves.
donations  suggested to benefit fools street ministry.
arriving in berkeley five years ago, he found a grand old house on ashby avenue that only later he discovered had once been home to the city’s notorious red family commune—the hotbed of revolution presided over by chicago 7 radical and later democratic state legislator tom hayden.
one is the spinning of donuts in an automobile  in the middle of an intersection.
the landmark case that originated in los angeles when andrea perez, who was white, filed a marriage certificate with sylvester davis, who was black, changed racist and exclusionary marriage laws, finding them unconstitutional by the california supreme court.
since the  students live there for more than 30 consecutive days, they aren’t  considered transients and the city doesn’t collect the taxes they  received from guests during the building’s holiday inn-carnation.
www.bookpride.com flamenco open stage at 7:30 p.m. at ashkenaz.
i know details are yet to be worked out, but i hope that in berkeley, we  can work together to create a vision to be emulated elsewhere; a cutting-edge  environment for hotel and convention-goers.
the proposed parcel tax would have made up for something less than half of  what has been estimated to be a $15 million to $20 million city budget deficit  within five years.
i was concerned for them when the elm succumbed to disease and was taken down, but the hawks relocated to a sweetgum around the corner.
the berkeley development would replace the bank of america branch at the corner of shattuck avenue and center street with a 200-room hotel/convention center, including 15,000 square feet of conference space, a 5,000-square-foot bank and underground parking.
“staff met with the firefighters a month ago,” the mayor said, “described what was going on, explained to them what was going on.
the weblog was up and running within two weeks, and the wiki followed soon  afterwards.
princess moxie, puppetry and storytelling from 3 to 4 p.m. at ashkenaz.
joining him at yeah!
but st. paul members are quick to make it known that their church is not  just about singing, dancing and preaching on sunday mornings.
next week the center will present county supervisors plans for $53 million  in further cuts, including elimination of another 176 positions, ending all  specialty care at outpatient clinics, and closing a cardiac ward and  obstetrician services at highland, a psychiatric ward at john george, and a  nursing home at fairmont.
the one  male in the study did go after the occasional sparrow, but seemed to prefer  bigger game.
meditation, peace vigil and dialogue, gather at noon on the grass close to  the west entrance to uc berkeley, on oxford st. near university ave.
uc senior planner kevin hufferd will make a presentation and field questions about the development that calls for demolishing the bank of america at the corner of center street and shattuck avenue to make way for an estimated 200-room hotel with a 15,000-square-foot conference center and 5,000-square-foot bank above one level of underground parking.
council itself  must make the final decision on any proposed changes.
i started working with  steve cobble, his campaign strategist who’d had the same role for  nader.”
mayor jerry brown may be seen from time to time, wafting in from his new digs up the street where sears once was.
charles hamilton, head of the program,  certainly deserves credit, but let’s give the kids their due.
what then happens to the artists we will cover at another time.
• hang your garden tools on pretty rubber straps that screw into the  wall.
www.starryploughpub.com music and dance university chorus noon concert at international house, at the corner of bancroft and piedmont aves.
“i don’t know what is going to be  discussed [at the next committee meeting].”
http://botan icalgarden.berkeley.edu winter pruning and maintenance, with garth jacober at 10 a.m. at magic gardens, 729 heinz ave.
to put it on  the voters and to spend all that money...
www.thejazzhouse.com total fury, harto, deadfall, cross the line at 5 p.m. at 924 gilman st.  cost is $5.
if mr. koenigshofer feels passionately that the current rent board or the  rent ordinance is ”unfair,” i urge him again to devote his time and  energy to campaigning on behalf of—and democratically  electing—candidates who better reflect his views rather than  complaining.
in addition, a number of chocolate bar manufacturers sell hot chocolate  mixes.
charles hamilton, head of the program, certainly deserves credit, but let’s give the kids their due.
let’s hope city officials have finally learned their lesson from  uc’s past encroachments elsewhere.
jane micallef, a community services specialist with the city of berkeley,  said there will be other emergency options for those who can’t stay at  yeah!
holiday food drive help the alameda county community food bank help people  in need.
for classes taught by a striking graduate student instructor, the  department chair will determine the type of grade given.
figures include a drummer, a flutist, a cymbalist  and other instrumentalists.
the ones at the nursery this year are imported ceramic  reproductions of european gnomes that were originally produced in france,  germany or england in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
the african american episcopal church has 7,000 congregations in more than 30 nations, according to the ame church website, but only one site in berkeley—st. paul.
one is  high-speed police auto chases.
behind the scenes, among berkeley progressives who understood what was really going on, that piece was greeting with much gnashing of teeth.
cost is  $17.50 advance, $18.50 at the door.
councilmember betty olds agreed, calling it “foolish” to put the parcel tax measure on the ballot.
“the political environment changed and they fired all the  professors, so a bunch of them—including my mother—organized a  legal battle and fought to get their jobs back.”
“the witness,” a one-woman play which follows the journey of a young woman onto the streets, followed by a discussion of faithful fools ministry, at 2 p.m. at berkeley fellowship, 1924 cedar at bonita.
cost is $37, and reservations required.
one is high-speed police auto chases.
interim berkeley planning director dan marks, who has held his position for five months, said that perceptions notwithstanding, the department doesn’t chart its own course.
a benefit for  berkeley copwatch.
as in many raptors, female coopers are larger than males.
currently, commission reports are automatically placed directly on the council agenda after being examined by the city manager’s office for fiscal impact and the manager’s recommendation.
county officials estimate the tax would generate $90 million annually, with 75 percent earmarked for the alameda county medical center—whose budget deficit has exploded to $86 million from $45.7 million in june.
after prolonged negotiations, ucsc eventually paid the city $75,000 to mitigate the lost revenues, he added.
it’s not  like we’re changing the course of the yangtze here!
its smaller cousin, the  sharpshin, takes proportionally smaller prey, and is a definite threat to  sparrow-sized birds.
i needed to read less than zero or i was never going to make it in the class.
meet at 10 a.m. at the cabin on the  eastern shore of middle pond at the northern terminus of shellmound street.
“it’s important to understand these problems aren’t a case of bad management,” kears said.
until 1948, it was illegal in the united states for a white person to marry a person of color.
sponsored by center for middle eastern studies.
and the  trees often show it.
berkeleychamberperform.org edessa, brass menagerie at 8:30 p.m. at ashkenaz.
while the city on the bay is a long way in time and space from the oklahoma plains where poole was born 40 years ago, politics was in his blood from the start.
uc berkeley spokeswoman carol hyman said administrators were working on  contingency plans, but refused to speculate on potential impacts.
strawberry creek work party we'll be planting and putting down erosion control material on the creek bank.
“we are servants of the community,” he said.
fine japanese tools and supplies.
now 40,  he’s a longtime member and current boardmember of the free software  foundation.
tuesday’s scene was especially gratifying for the cyclists who got  off to a tough start on this year’s ride.
sling  one over your arm or shoulder in the garden, just hose it off.
most recently, in what the media erroneously called  the “virtual gay marriage act,” approximately a dozen new rights  were bestowed by the legislature, such as community property ownership  protections and bereavement leave for state employees.
some councilmembers had argued that even if the larger tower was improperly erected, the present lean economic times made it impossible for the city to correct the problem by tearing down a “perfectly good communications tower.”
mainly, because i hardly ever get any.
2 theater aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for dec. 1.
marcy greenhut, president berkeley ecological and safe transportation misplaced blame editors, daily planet: i thoroughly enjoyed reading that mayor tom bates blames editorials and  letters to the editor for the flame-out of the deceptive parcel tax  (“mayor kills parcel tax vote after firefighters’ rejection,”  daily planet, nov. 25-27).
www.lapena.org yasujiro ozu: “woman of tokyo” at 5:30 p.m. “walk  cheerfully” at 7 p.m. and “i flunked, but...”
here are a few suggestions for where we should go from here: first, having the main discussion of the revenue shortfall in the unpublicized venue of the mayor’s revenue task force was a lousy idea.
mounted bromeliads would make lovely and unusual gifts for lovers  of houseplants.
nonetheless, he says, it’s become increasingly difficult to survive as the temperature drops and the rain starts.
these include scharffen berger, droste, valrhona, green & black and san francisco’s popular ghiardelli.
if a parking lot is built with no thought or encouragement given toward transit, it will be another car-culture frenzy.
stories, along with a name, company number and location should be sent to  ccc collection, p.o. box 5, woodbury, nj 08096 or by e-mail to  jfjmuseum@aol.com.
tickets are $15-$20 and are available from 642-9988.
www.epicarts.org broun fellinis at 8 p.m. at jupiter.
3 theater aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for dec. 2.
perhaps, it’s that my gift paranoia is outweighed by my free food mania.
you don’t suppose he’s serious about these things?
in terms of the fall color  question i’m generally a green, with a tinge of red.
just how many ases plan to honor picket lines remains unclear.
“but i’m just one out of three people [on the committee],” she added.
on  one side is the city’s planning department, supporting dense “smart  growth” intended to preserve open space on the urban fringe.
ongoing we give thanks month, berkeley restaurants, bar-ristorante raphael, cold  stone creamery, downtown, la note, semi-freddi’s, skates, and spengers  will donate a portion of their proceeds to berkeley food and housing project  during the month of november.
one side is the failure to do what  could have been done.
this week friday, nov.
plain chocolate (not milk) digestives are worth the pounds.
published accounts of the ensuing six-week strike reported that strikers divided over whether or not to give students grades, with many acquiescing to the university’s urgings and others giving out marks of “in progress”.
two rounds of cutbacks earlier this year totaling $23.5 million resulted  in 150 layoffs, closure of two outpatient clinics, increased patient  co-payments as well as a call to deny non-emergency care to indigents.
peter case, roots music, at 8 p.m. at freight and salvage.
since the planned hotel will be just outside city limits on county land, the university agreed to downsize the project to lessen the potential loss to davis’ hotel tax revenues.
the study will be undertaken jointly by the city’s zoning adjustments board, design review committee, and landmarks preservation commission.
www.ashkenaz.com theater berkeley high school, “you can’t take it with you,” see  listing for dec. 6.
coopers, remember, will prey on other raptors.
but when i started reading my classmates’ short stories i realized that there was more to this class than just changing “i” to “priscilla.”
berkeley horticultural nursery, 1310 mcgee ave.
bring paper, pencils, and ideas for  working out a sketch for your garden and photographs if possible.
“in st. paul there has always been a willing spirit to help,” floyd said.
though many thought the final product was a good thing, since city council  adopted the university avenue strategic plan in november 1996, implementation  has dragged, residents and city officials agree.
, i wound up spending my newly-freed friday afternoons at the brooklyn public library.
the  program continued through the 1990s until the church began to develop other  education programs like the academic center for excellence.
mehta said striking instructors would refrain from offering review sessions and proctoring and wouldn’t grade final exams.
if it’s successful, then we can expand it to provide a lot more services  for our people.”
“there have been dramatic changes in the community and the economy since [the plan was adopted,]” myers said.
pottery show and benefit for bay area community resources from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. at 871 indian rock ave.
but, beware, only mcvitie’s plain chocolate (not milk) digestives are worth the pounds.
tion, corner of shattuck and center.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu music and dance a cornucopia concert for thanksgiving, see listing for nov. 29.
the proposed tax hike—called the essential health care services tax—would give center facilities autonomy in distributing the money and would not replace money the county already provides for indigent care.
www.ashkenaz.com splash circus, “in the magical forest” at 2 p.m. at julia morgan center for the arts, 2640 college ave.
in contrast, there’s no major “fall color” tree commonly  planted in berkeley that also bursts forth with blossoms right when we most  need them, in the first three or four months of the year.
first, we here at the planet would like to make it clear that we have never come out in opposition to the parcel tax, either for the march ballot or for the november ballot.
and the trees often show it.
“this is the best day of the year,” said lt. bruce agnew, who, along with sgt.
by cachet,  i’m thinking not so much of our governator but of berkeley’s very  own world class chocolatier, john scharffenberger.
“all my friends who are progressive voters tell me they are more aligned with dennis than howard dean, but they say they’re putting their energy into dean because they think he’s electable.
when berkeley merchants and residents sat down with city officials to hash out a vision for university avenue eight years ago, it was supposed to be a break with history.
it has required two  appearances before the zoning adjustments board, hours of neighborhood  organizing, countless phone calls and letters, and coordination of the  city’s agencies for the entire time.
councilmember betty olds agreed, calling it “foolish” to put  the parcel tax measure on the ballot.
one of the sites, 15 feet from the railroad tracks, was so noisy that the realtor suggested we put in triple glazing and keep the windows permanently closed.
sponsored by the uu center for spiritual development.
i came to this viewpoint gradually after multiple conversations along these lines.
the agenda committee hasn’t held anything back.
famous as the indispensable  chocolate egg cream ingredient, the legendary syrup is also terrific for  concocting yummy hot chocolate.
if the measure is passed, county supervisors promise to seek public input  on which health programs to fund with the remaining 25 percent of the  funds.
california cities have  embraced this legal definition of domestic partnership by creating similar  municipal laws.
take the gloriously named scarlet oak, for instance.
the online civilian conservation corps museum is seeking the stories about the cccs, ccc enrollees, staff, or technical advisors for publication to this online historical resource.
as right-wing columnists and web sites have been quick to point out, this is exactly the technique that brought down three black hawks in mogadishu, somalia, in october 1993.
leyden says the center also functions as an intermediary to help their  clients get back on their feet during one of the hardest parts of the year.
reds, greens wage the berkeley foliage battle by steven finacom  special to the planet tuesday december 02, 2003 it’s that time of year again—fall, when there’s visible  evidence on the streets of a major divide in viewpoints between berkeley  residents.
undeniably, their sole purpose is to  control the lives of the recipients of their largesse.
st. paul also has an hiv/aids awareness program and hosts a narcotics  anonymous group that meets every saturday, floyd said.
www.ashkenaz.com pris, go ahead perform indy rock and rock at 9:30 p.m. at blakes on telegraph.
she and her associate todd itokazu construct extraordinary bouquets for  presentation to soloists who appear with the berkeley symphony.
100 professional artists and craftspeople at studio buildings in berkeley open their doors to the public.
www.starryploughpub.com music and dance noon concert with the university chorus at international house, at the  corner of bancroft and piedmont aves.
however, according to my pct, the planet’s preeminent hot chocolate is served at chez angelina rumpelmayer in paris—where proust himself plotted his conquests.
with its  substantial trunk and mophead of yellow daisies, this california  native—three feet high at maturity—would be right at home in a dr.  seuss illustration.
it was disconcerting and sobering to learn that he considered me, the  perky co-ed sitting beside him, a representative of an ancient and extinct  culture.
tickets are $12-$25, and are available from 415-262-0272 or  tickets@calbach.org sweet honey in the rock, female a cappella group, at 8 p.m. at zellerbach  hall, uc campus.
the bay on a canoe paddle in the oakland estuary and learn about the impacts of the “first flush” of polluted runoff from our streets, parks, gardens and homes into the bay.
for example, a bouquet for a piece about bluebeard  featured twisting branches and flowers representing dangling locks and chains.
now in it’s second year,
because it’s hard to propagate, it’s hard to find in nurseries.
the wealthy’s unequal wealth is usually due to under-compensation of the poor.
for a map of participating studios call  845-2612.
she said that  while st. paul has seen different pastors and different members, different  locations and different music over the years, no matter how st. paul changes,  she’s not going anywhere.
but according to oakland police chief richard word—a man not given to public falsehoods—the spinning of donuts has not directly caused a single death in this city.
this would truly be a retreat.
before they made it to martinez, retired lt. tom grant tumbled from his bike, opening a gash on his leg that needed stitches.
weldon smith, a supervisor in the alameda county assessors office, said  the downtown hotel would be exempt from property taxes, but as a moneymaking  venture, the complex would have to pay a less cumbersome possesory interest tax  that taxes the owner on investment income, and not a fixed rate based on the  value of the property.
in a proclamation of recognition that berkeley gave to the church on  sunday, city officials praised st. paul for feeding 5,000 people each year  through its tuesday community feeding program, a service that gives free meals  to the hungry and homeless in berkeley.
and then we have the oakland practice of spinning donuts in a car in the  middle of an intersection.
and i believe in supporting any venue i’ve never heard of just on principle.
this is not only an issue of money.
unlike many other rose pruning gloves, this pair, in green  and cream, really protects arms from the nastiest thorns and longest canes.
dine out for aids advocacy at unicorn pan asian cuisine, 2533 telegraph  ave.
www.accfb.org city of berkeley commissioners sought if you are interested in serving on a commission, applications can be downloaded from www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/ commissions/general.htm#applications or contact the city clerk, 981-6900.
police said the assailant approached the woman while she was parking her  car in the area of stuart street and shattuck avenue, then climbed into the  vehicle and sexually assaulted her.
for more information on  other emergency and existing shelters services, contact jane micallef with the  city of berkeley.
carol denney rolling back the clock editors, daily planet: i was stunned at tuesday night’s berkeley city council meeting when  councilman gordon wosniak, in a 12-minute attack against irv, suggested that  had irv been in effect when abraham lincoln ran against stephen douglas,  douglas would have won.
however, taxation must increase on the individual and corporate rich.
davis and yolo county officials are currently negotiating a split of hotel tax revenue from the project.
www.thejazzhouse.com ellis paul and vance gilbert, new england singer-songwriters, at 8 p.m. at  freight and salvage coffee house.
is  a new shelter established specifically to house people ages 18-25 who need  overnight shelter during the winter months.
we’d been told that the chp had been called in by oakland officials  to help out with oakland’s soaring murder rate, but maybe that’s
there’s no way that the city won’t have to go  to local taxpayers for more money, probably in november 2004, in competition  with the schools, who are also suffering.
i’ve studied the mfa curriculum as well as the undergraduate creative writing offerings and the nursing school’s courses in geriatric studies.
roth and lima live-trapped 13 cooper’s hawks during two successive seasons and rigged them with radio transmitters.
early music with healing muses eileen hadidian, recorder and flute, maureen brennan, celtic harp, natalie cox, renaissance and celtic harp, with dan reiter, cello, at 8 p.m. at st. alban’s episcopal church, 1501 washington ave., albany.
i don’t see [the agenda committee]—and i  don’t know of anyone else who sees it—as being  obstructionist.”
at 9 p.m. at  the pacific film archive.
these are classes i  don’t need to take—these are courses i can teach.
tom brown wishful thinking editors, daily planet: steve geller’s letter (“planning ahead,” daily planet,  nov. 25-27) makes some good points about the exciting new possibilities for a  hotel, conference center, art museums, etc. in downtown berkeley.
www.blakesontelegraph.com sterling dervish at 9:30 p.m. at beckett’s irish pub, 2271 shattuck  ave.
we’re an international city, and many of our retail stores mirror the countries their owners came from.
jim purdum, general manager of pennsylvania state university-owned penn stater, a hotel and conference center in state college, penn., said the university had agreed to pay full taxes to “mitigate the burden for the city.”
www.bookpride.com yu hua reads from his new book, “chronicle of a blood merchant,” set during the early years of china’s cultural revolution, at 7:30 p.m. at cody’s books.
“part of the ame creed is to feed the hungry,” floyd said.
i don’t think the planet will sustain itself if we don’t make  a radical change.
in light of the firestorm in berkeley over a proposed parcel tax, carson  said the board would campaign hard for the tax measure and start a mobilization  drive to get supporters to the polls.
i don’t mind some fall color, but too much of it is wrong for berkeley.
“we would have liked the whole 120 cabs in berkeley to be  wheelchair-accessible, of course, but this is a start.
roth and lima suggest that the small fry were just not worth the  effort it would have taken to catch them.
the driveway seems to be a transit corridor, part of the bird’s (or birds’) hunting territory.
striking at the end of the semester poses extra pains for students.
“what was discussed last week was the possibility of the agenda committee being able to hold a report over for a week if it looks as if there’s a commission report that was incomplete and questions needed to be answered,” maio said.
“i felt fortunate to know that the turkey ride had made life better for three small children,” he said.
visitors could be educated and inspired by their berkeley experience when they return home.
i have two young kids, and i’d hate to see  us lose half our planet before they’re in their twenties.
led by dody donnelly,  ph.d. and hank “waablez” adams, from 9:45 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the  unitarian church, 1 lawson rd., kensington.
4 aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for  dec. 2.
is there anything you want to tell me?”
swing dance lesson with nick  and shanna at 8 p.m.
bike afrika bring a bike in good working condition or requiring minor  parts/repairs and we'll donate it to aids doctors in africa.
women of color arts and crafts fair, featuring paintings, clay sculptures,  textiles, jewelry, quilts, decorative functional furniture and wearable art.
but if japanese-american friendships survived the second  world war, perhaps friendships being made by students in berkeley today will  survive the current unpleasantness.
neighbors  immediately dubbed the tower a “monstrosity,” saying it was out of  character with the historic downtown neighborhood, never properly noticed to  the public in the project’s environmental impact review, and never  subjected to the city’s commission evaluation process.
what emerged from the meeting was an electronic  presidential campaign, run in part from a room in a house that was once  berkeley’s best-known radical commune.
dine out for aids advocacy at unicorn pan asian cuisine, 2533 telegraph ave.
berkeley venture crew 24 open house
but under the city manager  system and a council which is sometimes quite divided, there is a lot of  autonomy
www.lapena.org yasujiro ozu: “woman of tokyo” at 5:30 p.m. “walk cheerfully” at 7 p.m. and “i flunked, but...”
calling the present tower an “oil derrick,” kalkanis urged  councilmembers to “submit alternatives to the present tower to the  standard review process.”
berkeley communicators toastmasters meets the first and third wednesdays of  the month at 7:15 a.m. at hide-a-way café, 6430 telegraph ave.
as bowden wrote, it was these arabs who taught that the best way to bring down a helicopter with an rpg was to shoot for the tail rotor (which keeps the helicopter from spinning by countering torque from its main rotor).
from germany, there’s a full orchestra of tiny angels playing  musical instruments of all kinds, reflecting jutta’s passion for  classical music.
in july, after the supervisors reduced the authority of former ceo kenneth  cohen—who they blamed for failing to implement cuts when revenues first  started evaporating and then proposing cuts far too drastic—five center  trustees voted to fire cohen and then quit in protest, citing frustration with  the supervisors.
the medical center—which also includes fairmont hospital in san leandro, john george psychiatric pavilion in san leandro and three outpatient clinics—has seen its $353 million budget busted by funding cuts, expense increases and swelling ranks of the uninsured they are mandated to serve.
dick penniman’s avalanche safety, slide lecture and video  presentation on the fundamentals: avalanche phenomena, meteorology, snowpack  formation, route selection, stability evaluation and rescue techniques, at 6  p.m. at at rei, 1338 san pablo ave.
a recent study by biologists timothy roth iii and steven lima, published  in the condor (the journal of the cooper ornithological society, a group named  for the son of the hawk’s namesake) suggests the story is more  complicated than that.
hang one or more gorgeous,  multicolored globes on your christmas tree before setting them outside for the  birds.
i’d be disloyal if i didn’t pay homage to the pride of  brooklyn, fox’s u-bet chocolate syrup.
berkeley copwatch open office hours 7 to 9 p.m.
aside from some completed landscaping projects, the university avenue strategic plan has languished since the berkeley city council adopted it in 1996.
yes, evil gift-givers are conspiring to transform me from who i am to who they want me to be.
pris, go ahead perform indy rock and rock at 9:30 p.m. at blakes on telegraph.
“yes,” the congregations answered in unison.
then  he asked if i could help him with his web campaign.
beginners guide to finding planets and constellations using an astrological calendar, at 7:30 p.m. at ancient ways, 4075 telegraph ave, oakland.
if parking is foregone, in favor of demonstrating how well public transit can serve such a center, it could be a bold, world-class vision and model.
we are a few slowpoke seniors who walk between a mile or two each tuesday, meeting at 9:30 a.m. in the little farm parking lot.
music and dance berkeley chamber performances, wolford-rosenblum, saxophone/piano duo at 8 p.m. at berkeley city club, 2315 durant ave.
we have three distinct problems that often get interrelated—by the  police, the public, and the press.
and what has been  built—acton court, for example—is not what the city had in mind,  said councilmember linda maio.
various departments are now preparing and submitting  their portions of the report to tom myers, the city’s acting manager of  the office of economic development, who will compile the final report.
7 children gayle schmidt and the toodala ramblers, bluegrass and old time music for  children at 3 p.m. at ashkenaz.
theater aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for  dec. 2.
the text is a doozy, an internal memo from lawrence summers (then chief economic advisor to the world bank, now president of harvard).
but no one to date has pointed out what mark bowden, author of the best account of that battle, black hawk down, reported: that the somalis on the ground had been trained by arabs who had fought against the soviets in afghanistan.
resembles a living  golfball; and astrophytum myriostigma: a miniaturized, pale green version that  evokes its common name, bishop’s mitre.
volunteers work 10  hours a week and should have good writing and word processing skills.
last  sunday, he and churchgoers celebrated st. paul’s 70th anniversary in  berkeley.
forest green nylon fabric with wooden handles and durable leather look-alike brown trim.
adults $4, children $3, children under 1, free.
org/benefitconcert.htm “maybe monday” improvisational response to helen mirra’s matrix exhibition at 6 p.m. in gallery 1, berkeley art museum, 2626 bancroft way.
www.pillsprofitsprotest.org tibetan buddhism, abbe blum on “personal transitions as new  beginnings” at 6 p.m. at the tibetan nyingma institute, 1815 highland pl.
davis and yolo county  officials are currently negotiating a split of hotel tax revenue from the  project.
give them your money.
as for the folks at the oakland  metro, god bless ‘em for conjuring this peculiar and wonderful show, in  this case with a live 11-piece orchestra and digitally projected scenery.
guided tour: gene(sis): contemporary art explores human genomics, at 12:15  p.m., berkeley art museum, 2626 bancroft way.
once a uc berkeley undergrad in composition, he’s now teaching at yale.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/energy city meetings council agenda committee meets mon., dec. 1, at 2:30 p.m., at 2180 milvia st., sherry m. kelly, city clerk, 981-6900.
if a  parking lot is built with no thought or encouragement given toward transit, it  will be another car-culture frenzy.
berkeley’s homeowners pay some of the highest property taxes in the state.
instead of  building developments that complement the community, the city has had to accept  intrusive structures like acton court, poschman said.
behold  ex-scientist wozzlebrain on tuesday.
if you subscribe to the theory that scrappy arts venues are a precursor to  big-time gentrification, downtown oakland may be ready for its oft-rumored,  oft-postponed real estate boom.
lupke was struck by a car while riding his motorized wheelchair in the  street along ashby avenue, trying to maneuver around an uneven stretch of  sidewalk.
council’s decided for the wheelchair taxis after emotional testimony from disability commissioner marissa shaw, who cited the recent automobile accident death of berkeley activist fred lupke as a reason to approve the project.
she said he also plans to develop a program to  help find permanent housing for the homeless individuals that the church  serves.
the mayor’s task force on permitting and development is supposed to  release its findings shortly, and poschman expects to see the matter on the  planning commission agenda in december.
“it takes a champion and a persistent champion, and certain amounts of energy from merchants, and we have that now,” maio said.
the rich are obligated as community members to balance the scales wherever they live or do business officially.
as for the folks at the oakland metro, god bless ‘em for conjuring this peculiar and wonderful show, in this case with a live 11-piece orchestra and digitally projected scenery.
still in oakland (we’ll get to berkeley in a minute), arthur blythe is at yoshi’s with his quartet on monday, dec. 15.
developers are working on two designs—one four stories, the other five—after being asked to come up with new plans by the design review committee in august, said project planner aaron sage.
“but everybody wants to move,” she said of the church’s younger generation of members, who want more upbeat music.
chris kavanagh carjacking and sexual assault police are searching for the knife-wielding man who forced his way into a woman’s car tuesday morning car and sexually assaulted her before releasing her in oakland.
during all that time, things  have gone in the wrong direction.
he said he is tired of the city treating the corridor as a dumping ground for what more vocal neighborhoods don’t want.
if you would like to participate please send your stories, with name company number and location if known, to ccc collection, po box 5, woodbury nj 08096 or email to jfjmuseum@aol.com free smoke detectors for city residents and uc berkeley students who live off-campus.
buildings weren’t more than two or three stories tall except in highly concentrated “nodes” where a four-story maximum of retail and affordable housing existed.
minutes later, police stopped four youths at the intersection of dwight way and california street, and the cyclist made positive identifications of two, who were charged with attempted robbery and released to their parents.
we printed all of them.
“it’s hard to  deal with them.”
from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the lutheran church, 1744 university ave.
after hosting lunch poems for  eight years, professor hass has finally been prevailed upon to read his own  poems.
anyway, the chronicle and the tribune agree that chp officers spotted brown spinning donuts in his mustang at 73rd and bancroft.
the devices had position-sensitive mercury switches that signaled whether a hawk was perched in its normal upright posture, waiting for something to happen, or in a horizontal pose as it plucked and ate whatever it had killed.
besides the $40k per space, what cost would there be to the environment from pollutants?
when i told a friend i was getting an mfa in creative writing at san  francisco state, she looked at me quizzically.
kears said a county detox center—long sought by berkeley homeless advocates— would likely be a top priority.
if parking is foregone, in favor  of demonstrating how well public transit can serve such a center, it could be a  bold, world-class vision and model.
to a chocolate snob, which i’m rapidly becoming, milk chocolate is tres uncool.
the recent downing of u.s. black hawk helicopters in iraq is yet another example of how the aid supplied by the cia to islamist terrorists in the 1980s has contributed to the escalation and spread of terrorism everywhere in the world.
as it is, i bicycle, bart or walk downtown.
one man punched the victim in the face sending him to the pavement.
644-6893 www.berkeleyartcenter.org oakland glass artists holiday exhibit and sale, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at 2680 union st. oakland.
the projects arise from the desire of the universities to profit from  their steady streams of visitors and the demand for conference space and the  hunger for cities to snare room tax money from university land usually exempt  from local tax rolls.
now, when i juxtapose that image with a “traditional” or  “conventional” hotel and convention center with underground  parking, i lose hope, get discouraged and want to stay away.
no talks are scheduled  before the end of the semester.
“there are two sides to this.
i needed to know about goth clubs, massage parlors, obscure british rock bands, new slang terms.
“when drivers rev  their engines and wage spinning contests to the delight of crowds that can  number in the hundreds.”
and let’s not forget the vast cookie, cracker, biscuit and biscotti categories, with even madeleines available chocolate-dipped.
anyway, the chronicle and the tribune agree that chp officers spotted  brown spinning donuts in his mustang at 73rd and bancroft.
planning for  south berkeley, west berkeley and the city’s general plan emerged as more  pressing concerns, said planning commissioner rob wrenn, the former chair of  the commission.
share your slides and prints and learn what other  photographers are doing.
blue, green, yellow, with a metal feeding tube whose red tip will lure  the hummers—the kind with wings.
us/commissions/firesafety housing advisory commission meets thurs., dec. 4 at 7:30 p.m., at the south  berkeley senior center.
last year’s program prompted the berkeley chief of police to write a  letter thanking the shelter for their help in eliminating one of the  city’s largest and most residual problems.
mehta said the strike would last through finals, though ases would return  to work for the spring semester in january even without a new deal.
these were extremists who, even  at the time, made it clear they despised the west almost as much as they did  the soviet union.
2 writer’s room needs volunteers to help students improve their writing and critical thinking skills.
lots of pockets plus room inside for plenty of other garden supplies.
www.starryploughpub.com geoff muldaur with fritz richmond and tony marcus, american roots, at 8 p.m. at freight and salvage.
green thumb guide: perfect gifts for favorite gardeners by zelda  bronstein special to the planet friday november 28, 2003 the gardeners of the greater berkeley area are doubly fortunate.
“this project is significant because it’s one in a  series,” said robin kibby, a university avenue corridor resident.
just build it with a sign on the roof that says it is the animal shelter  and calls for volunteers.
www.starryploughpub.com “a context for peace” an evening of new work from bay area musicians, authors and poets at 8 p.m. at la peña cultural center.
the gap between six and nine is just three percent out of your total  hundred.
last word poetry series presents garrett murphy and marianne robinson from  7 to 9 p.m. at pegasus bookstore, 2349 shattuck ave.
it could double as a great home dec accent and/or halloween accessory for the witch(es) in your life.
“oh nothing,” she said.
“they’re saying, ‘oh, yeah, we should implement this  thing.’
another project he’s working on with catherine fitts—a former assistant secretary of housing and urban development in the clinton administration—is whereisthemoney.org.
our alternate view—of an exceptionally well designed, landscaped, family friendly, living, community resource—is gaining momentum as more municipalities are taking pride in their animal shelters and putting in place reform policies to end the tragedy of pet overpopulation and high euthanasia.
and cruising  local markets, i spotted an embarrassment of chocolate-covered riches,  including: raisins, cranberries, cherries, strawberries, almonds, peanuts,  pistachios, pecans, ginger, espresso beans, pretzels, malt balls and  licorice.
and running beneath all of it, say some residents and planning  commissioner gene poschman, is an ongoing debate about housing in berkeley.
floyd said services at st. paul  have traditionally been more quiet and subdued.
we offer ongoing classes in exercise and  creative arts, and always welcome new members over 50.
then he asked if i could help him with his web campaign.
but wouldn’t they also take advantage of the smorgasbord of finches and sparrows attracted to bird feeders?
28 thanksgiving holiday - city offices are closed bay area women in black will hold a silent walking vigil to supposrt the new palestine-israel geneva peace initiative and to protest us occupation of iraq.
a local poet calls his bluff with the following: “wozzlebrain deceives himself with statistics,” for the berkeley city council, with condolences.
“already home in west berkeley,” with author barbara gates, a moving memoir that explores the connections between local history, the environment, the body, and the spirit.
www.jazzschool.com “isis: the great goddess” a multimedia event of music, spoken word and video at 8 p.m. at la peña cultural center.
“around here, a lot of times the older homeless people, not to  stereotype them, are on some very hard-core drugs,” said sean, who has  been on the streets of berkeley for seven months.
the call quickly secured his  release.
how anyone could plan to build such a huge structure downtown berkeley in the image of the car-dominant paradigm is beyond me.
“the university avenue strategic  plan was supposed to prevent that kind of gargantuan mess.”
minutes later, police stopped four youths at the intersection of dwight  way and california street, and the cyclist made positive identifications of  two, who were charged with attempted robbery and released to their  parents.
culver said santa cruz won a ruling from the santa cruz county assessor to keep the former holiday inn hotel on the tax rolls despite the ucsc takeover.
“the managers understand it—this time we’re not taking ‘wait’ for an answer.”
if not, she added, “our attorney informs  us we have clear grounds for legal action.
sturdy wire mesh coated with green plastic, walnut handle, pine body.
stein left oakland for paris while still in her teen years, and in 1926 teamed up with another american expat, composer virgil thomson.
“defending the rights of the people in the age of ashcroft,” featuring clark kissinger, a member of the national council of refuse & resist!
in any event, both newspapers agree that when he saw the highway patrol officers, mr. brown sped away.
“it takes a champion and a persistent champion, and certain amounts  of energy from merchants, and we have that now,” maio said.
with their elegantly curved  handles, they could be displayed as art objects in their own right.
nursery staff will help you match plant to pot.
“it’s just that i was under the impression that questioning  one’s gender and sexuality were a prerequisite to the curriculum.
www.freight-andsalvage.org “jah music for the people” at the 1923 teahouse at 8 p.m.
these are great on some streets and as accents, but they and their gaudy cousins shouldn’t be everywhere.
at 7 p.m. at  epworth united methodist church, 1953 hopkins st. preceeded by vegetarian  dinner at 6 p.m. donation for dinner and program $15 and up, no one turned away  for lack of funds.
tickets are $25, with champagne reception.
jutta dedicates a whole room to her extensive holiday offerings, including the wonderful blown glass animals on her christmas tree, from which part of the proceeds go to the national wildlife federation.
she added, however, that st. paul’s commitment to outreach is  one that has evolved over time.
the public employment relations board (perb) will ultimately settle the charges.
cost  is $15.50 in advance, $16.50 at the door.
while political activism came from his mother, an understanding of the  intrusive nature of the system came from his father, a private investigator.
if, instead, the landlords had showered me with gifts  they would have quickly driven me out of town.
“what happened [with the strategic plan] happens often in berkeley,” said deputy planning director wendy cosin.
like the recent massachusetts groundbreaking decision, it is now time for californians to travel a more direct route to this destination by directly challenging the constitutionality of restrictive state marriage laws.
i first discovered the local pair of coopers nesting in a venerable elm a few blocks away.
for the 2003 holidays, these shops have gathered a wide array of distinctive quality goods likely to please the discerning plantspersons on your gift list.
but the trauma of having it ripped apart by my fellow students was something i wasn’t prepared for.
guided tour: gene(sis): contemporary art explores human genomics, at 2  p.m., berkeley art museum, 2626 bancroft way.
“[the other shelters] are usually a little too rowdy and smelly and  insane,” said marz.
becoming pastor of st. paul was a sort of homecoming for williams, who  attended the church when he was a young boy while his father, e.p. williams,  served as pastor in the early 1960s.
tickets are $12-$25, and are available from 415-262-0272 or tickets@calbach.org sweet honey in the rock, female a cappella group, at 8 p.m. at zellerbach hall, uc campus.
the agenda committee, originally known as the rules committee, manages the agenda for berkeley city council.
according to the university’s own projections of an average room  price of $130 and a 65 percent occupancy rate in 2006, the hotel would generate  roughly $730,080 in hotel taxes its first year of operation.
and three percent, all poets know, is statistically insignificant.
the medical center provides care to the county’s indigent and uninsured and includes oakland’s highland hospital—which serves the majority of berkeley trauma and emergency patients and is the lone specialized medical care option for berkeley’s estimated 9,000-11,000 uninsured residents.
bar mitzvah lessons no longer needed
after a berkeley city council meeting  he’s slipped by three percent.
although ubiquitous, house sparrows tended to be ignored.
but coopers seem to exclude sharpshins from their hunting territories; only a few sharpies were observed in the terre haute study, most at the periphery of the coopers’ turf.
other uc developments offer cities the same revenue streams, but the money doesn’t necessarily materialize.
the chp “briefly gave chase (according to the chronicle) but chp supervisors quickly called off the pursuit because it was too dangerous on city streets.”
developers are working on two designs—one four  stories, the other five—after being asked to come up with new plans by  the design review committee in august, said project planner aaron sage.
doris tabor, 85, echoed robinson’s sentiment.
last week i had a chance to take a look at a little exhibit in the basement of international house, the residence hall near the uc campus where students from all countries live together in order to, as their web page says, “foster intercultural respect and understanding, lifelong friendships and leadership skills for the promotion of a more tolerant and peaceful world.”
the pages of this paper are open to all points of view.
“intelligence & empire” with marshall windmiller, retired professor of international relations at san francisco state univ.
me: “and why is that, exactly?”
applications must be received by nov. 28.
our correspondents have been much more forthright with their opinions.
i liked what i heard, but i had a question, so i went up afterwards and asked him.
in particular: first, uc absolutely must conserve its printing press building at center  and oxford, even if it’s reused to house the museums.
tickets are adults $15 in advance, $18 at the door, students $7 in  advance, $10 at door.
we very much need to provide a large number of  urban periphery municipal parking spaces under a cohesive, practical and  well-funded transportation plan with free shuttles to both bart and local  busing options.
www.lapena.org berkeley artisans open studios every weekend through dec. 21.
• long-reach pruners, 1 to 8 feet long, plus extendable handles that  add up to two feet, will enable you to reach that elusive fruit at the top of  the tree.
www.ci.ber keley.ca.us/commissions/youth zoning adjustments board meets mon., dec. 1, at 7 p.m., in city council chambers.
the bare facts, as far as they can be pieced together from newspaper accounts, is that 52-year-old oakland janitor juan martinez was critically injured last saturday night when the car in which he was driving on 98th avenue in brookfield village was struck by a car driven by 27-year-old randolph brown.
who are not sisters  last year.
while allegedly still on the u.s. payroll,  mohamed had been recruiting and training arabs for the u.s.-supported afghan  war, at the al-kifah center in brooklyn, n.y.
one of the plan’s six goals is to implement crime tracking along the university avenue corridor.
i don’t see [the agenda committee]—and i don’t know of anyone else who sees it—as being obstructionist.”
www.berkeleyballet.org berkeley city ballet, “the nutcracker,” at 1 and 5 p.m. at  zellerbach playhouse, uc berkeley campus.
uaw local 2865, like other uc unions, has accused the university of negotiating in bad faith, maintaining that uc sends negotiators to the bargaining table who don’t have authority to reach a deal, a claim the university rejects.
what the heck is it doing underground anyway?
bus passes and bart tickets could be dispensed right at the center, along with a kiosk of clear transit information, resources and popular bay area destinations.
registration required.
“that they go through the trouble to do all that work and drive the turkey here, that’s a beautiful thing,” evans said.
the  wealthy’s unequal wealth is usually due to under-compensation of the  poor.
http://botan icalgarden.berkeley.edu winter pruning and maintenance, with garth jacober at 10 a.m. at magic  gardens, 729 heinz ave.
during all that time, things have gone in the wrong direction.
sol rebelz and occupied thought perform hip hop at 9:30 p.m. at blakes on  telegraph.
started as a hobby by john justin, and dedicated to his father, james, a cccer, the site is seeking stories about ccc camps, enrollees, staff and technical advisors.
www.giorgigallery.com “winter songs with kitka,” women’s vocal ensemble  performs seasonal music from eastern europe at 7 p.m. at lake merritt united  methodist church, 1330 lakeshore ave.
maio and other city officials said that the plan has taken so long to  implement because of staff turnover and the plan’s magnitude.
now nine percent of his brain cells go  languishing unused.
give  them your money.
it wasn’t long before he blended his outsider’s passion for  connection with his technological gifts.
“we didn’t want them to be a barrier.”
dancers moved through the aisles dressed in black leotards and long skirts with their waists wrapped in afro-centric fabric.
one change that tabor is excited about is st. paul’s newly appointed  pastor.
permitted taxis will be vans equipped with retractable ramps—which  will also be available for taxi riders in the city who don’t use  wheelchairs.
www.ashkenaz.com keni el lebrijano, at 8 p.m. at downtown.
kagen said implementing the policy denying non-emergency care has proven difficult because many doctors and staffers refuse to turn away patients.
the facility is co-sponsored by the city of berkeley, city of oakland and alameda county.
now, with proposals on the table for at least two five-story building  developments in the university avenue corridor, the strategic plan is starting  to get attention again.
4 theater aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for dec. 2.
arts calendar tuesday, dec.
in oklahoma—a state never known as a vibrant hub of  culture—the bright youth with the unconventional parents sought solace in  technology.
bates said that both san diego and santa clara counties have announced lawsuits against the state of california for the governor’s actions, while the california league of cities is also considering similar action.
lifetime guarantee from monrovia.
helen ettlinger • xxxxxxxxxx editors, daily planet: in his op-ed commentary (“public demands tax accountability for tax payments,” daily planet, nov. 21-24), john koenigshofer again perpetuates the myth of thousands of “untaxed” berkeley renters who don’t contribute to owner property tax obligations.
embrace the end, animosity, 30 years war, killing the dream at 924 gilman  st. cost is $5.
www.thejazzhouse.com ellis paul and vance gilbert, new england singer-songwriters, at 8 p.m. at freight and salvage.
yoga for seniors at the berkeley city club, 2315 durant st., on saturdays  from 10 to 11 a.m.
first, no one coming to a conference from fresno, modesto, san jose, santa cruz, or santa rosa is going to fly.
autumn in the bay area is when the rains return bringing the quickening and  reinvigoration of much of the landscape, not the beginning of annual  dormancy.
1 acci gallery, holiday arts and crafts show gallery hours are mon. - thurs.
“rally for africa's right to health” at the oakland federal building, 1301 clay street, from noon to 1:00 p.m.
funded in part by the city of berkeley and staffed by a crew of over 75  volunteers, the shelter opens dec. 1 at the lutheran church of the cross, 1744  university ave.
the logic is that when deserted storefronts  give way to theaters and rehearsal space, optimistic developers cannot be far  behind.
editorial: berkeley blame game becky o'malley friday  november 28, 2003 there’s a best-selling book with a title something like everything i  need to know i learned in kindergarten.
for  information call fred garvey, 925-682-1111, ext.
the class is taught by rosie linsky, who at age 72, has practiced yoga for over 40 years.
and, with luck, you might elicit a glimmer of gratitude.
grad instructors plan strike
• rosarians (the fancy name for rose gardeners) will really  appreciate “the american beauty,” tahoe gloves’ long leather  and nylon gauntlets.
readings and lectures guided tour: gene(sis): contemporary art explores human genomics, at 2 p.m., berkeley art museum, 2626 bancroft way.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/commissions/environmentaladvisory landmarks preservation commission meets mon., dec. 8, 7:30 p.m., at the  north berkeley senior center.
for details please contact alameda county office of education, 670-7703.
part of the problem is interpretation of state law that requires cities to have enough affordable housing, she said.
because  it’s hard to propagate, it’s hard to find in nurseries.
oakland opera theater, “four saints in three acts,” an opera by virgil thomson and gertrude stein, at 8 p.m., at oakland metro, 201 broadway, at 2nd st. tickets are $15-$25 and are available from www.oaklandopera.org film yasujiro ozu: “an inn at tokyo” at 7:30 p.m. and “the only son” at 9:10 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
and if you can’t go in peace, just go.
drop in to file complaints,  assistance available.
“images of mary in art: the black madonna” with china galland, director of the images of divinity project at the center for arts, education and religion at the graduate theological union, at 7:30 p.m. at all souls episcopal church, 2220 cedar st. 848-1755.
all use fair trade cocoa and ah!laska donates a percentage of the company’s profits to alaska wildlife organizations.
researchers at cornell university recently compared the three beverages  and determined hot chocolate had almost twice the antioxidant concentration of  red wine and two to three times the concentration of green tea.
last week, the daily planet received queries about possible plans by the  agenda committee to review all commission reports before they land on city  council’s agenda.
but 70 years ago st. paul was a very different place.
the university holds that current labor contract language prohibits such actions, but the issue remains a legal gray area, so the school has demanded that other unions follow the example of university lecturers who earlier this year agreed to contract language baring sympathy strikes.
both papers implied that there was a “sideshow” going on, though never saying so explicitly, and the chronicle article also included a helpful explanation of “sideshow” activity for readers west of the bay not familiar with the practice: they occur (according to the chronicle)
mounted bromeliads would make lovely and unusual gifts for lovers of houseplants.
chocolate bars i’ve always envied people with short last names.
the facility  is co-sponsored by the city of berkeley, city of oakland and alameda  county.
open to non-members of the club for $8 per  class.
goodness knows it’s a necessary part of our lives, but except in a few  limited instances, public transit is never going to be a serious rival to the  private car (least of all at night), and the sooner we realize that, the  better.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu readings and lectures terry wolverton reads from “embers: a novel in poems” at 7:30 p.m. at boadecia’s books, 398 colusa ave., kensington.
on a motion from councilmember dona spring, council voted 6-2-1  (worthington and wozniak voting no, shirek abstaining) to investigate putting  up a single 160-foot pole to replace the current 160-foot multi-antennae tower.
berkeley copwatch organizational meeting at 6 p.m. at 2022 blake st. join  us to work on current issues around police misconduct.
in reality, in most places i’ve seen it planted in berkeley, it’s not at all red in the fall.
www.starryploughpub.com geoff muldaur with fritz richmond and tony marcus, american roots, at 8  p.m. at freight and salvage.
music and dance berkeley ballet theater, “the nutcracker,” at 2 and 7 p.m. at julia morgan center for the arts.
call 643-1924 to sign up!
this would be an unimaginably costly, disruptive, and uncertain undertaking for  a city government that is (a) broke and (b) incapable of keeping even small  public works projects within schedules or budgets.
for more information, call  527-4099.
ongoing holiday food drive help the alameda county community food bank help people in need.
resisting insularity becky o'malley tuesday  december 02, 2003 last week i had a chance to take a look at a little exhibit in the  basement of international house, the residence hall near the uc campus where  students from all countries live together in order to, as their web page says,  “foster intercultural respect and understanding, lifelong friendships and  leadership skills for the promotion of a more tolerant and peaceful  world.”
also, in an earlier letter (daily planet, nov. 17-20), mr. koenigshofer  assails the berkeley rent stabilization board’s annual citywide rent  increase/adjustment process, or annual general adjustment (aga), as  “unfair.”
free food, music,  fun, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at smokey joe’s restaurant, corner of cedar  and shattuck.
• garden gnomes got popular at westbrae after one appeared in the movie amelie.
(don’t even think about  stealing this paper!)
writer’s room needs volunteers to help students improve their writing  and critical thinking skills.
escaping trial  by a negotiated plea, he was in a u.s. prison as late as 2001.
poschman acknowledged that there’s often a time lag on city projects  like the university avenue strategic plan.
cia training of islamists haunts gis in iraq
additionally, in the second phase of the project, uc would pay to move the  pacific film archive, berkeley art museum and phoebe hearst anthropology museum  to uc-owned buildings just east of the hotel development.
what if the money were invested in a local shuttle?
earlier this year, after council deeply split over a resolution  from the peace and justice commission to investigate the middle east death of  american peace worker rachel corrie, both bates and hawley expressed concern  about such “non-berkeley” issues coming before the council.
www.thejazzhouse.com ellis paul and vance gilbert, new england singer-songwriters, at 8 p.m. at freight and salvage coffee house.
breakfast with santa from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. at the claremont resort and  spa.
it’s time to take our city back—not give more of it away.
as to the comment attributed to me, that the land swap could have been accomplished with more political support, reporter matt artz misunderstood me.
uc berkeley senior planner and project manager kevin hufferd said the  santa cruz scenario wouldn’t happen in berkeley.
one that stands out is lachenalia viridiflora, with astonishing turquoise flowers that make you want to get up close.
“most of this has been beyond  anyone’s control.”
the botanical garden has tillandsias, small bromeliads that  grow on the trunks of trees in the jungle, placed on special clay mountings  that can be hung on the wall.
indoor plants • lovely begonia fuchsiodes sports beautiful, deep red, fuchscia-like  flowers.
planners ponder uc hotel berkeley residents and planning commissioners will get their first crack tuesday afternoon to quiz uc berkeley officials about the proposed university hotel and convention center slated for downtown berkeley.
to join us, call 215-7672.
and that’s a disappointment hereabouts in late january or february when we’ve had a few months of chilly, wet, weather and it’s important to see some green, instead of just gray branches mournfully dripping rain.
the police are starting to work on their share of the report to city council, said berkeley police sgt.
neither side would discuss contract details, but mehta said that the  sticking point remained a university demand that that the uaw agrees to a  stipulation barring them from participating in sympathy strikes.
a downtown berkeley hotel offers the city’s cash-starved government  the chance for lucrative 12 percent transient occupancy tax revenues, which  mayor tom bates estimates could run as high as $1 million annually.
very dense cities in europe do it and these  city governments also manage to efficiently implement planned  pedestrian/public-transportation-only urban centers in cramped and much more  heavily regulated circumstances.
professors were also informed that in the case of a strike they would have  greater latitude to alter the format of a test.
as are elms, sycamores, and other trees of their ilk, with leaves that turn, at best, a feeble blotchy yellow or tan as fall approaches.
“but we are here to be an education  center.”
in her ward street home in berkeley, tabor has boxes of old pictures and yellowed programs from services that date back as far as the 1960s.
maio and other city officials said that the plan has taken so long to implement because of staff turnover and the plan’s magnitude.
the series is  taught by christopher shein of wildheart gardens, an edible, native, medicinal  and other useful plant permaculture nursery.
as it is, both  parties put corporate interests above human rights.
• onyx planter pots turn opalescent in the sun.
standby: no technical difficulties: program 4 at 7:30 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
“we’re going to have to prove to those people who stood up  here before the council and said ‘you tighten your belts.
• alluandia ascendans.
jill posener chair, council sub committee on the new animal shelter • not out of sight editors, daily planet: i am puzzled by the claim that an animal shelter on university and third street would be “out of sight, out of mind,” and that this “hidden location” would mean fewer volunteers and less connection to the community.
finally, after weeks of visiting the graduate creative  writing office and asking permission from professors half my age if i could get  into one of their workshops, i settled into three courses: beginning novel,  advanced short stories, and the business of writing.
assemble at 11:50 a.m. at the bank of america across from the powell street bart.
instead of a book bag, i need a large backpack or a suitcase with wheels.”
“yeah, dennis is a long shot, but i’m willing to take a long shot.
called  the berkeley mission, the church began with just five members in a modest  building at the corner of grove and russell streets.
people haven’t changed much since ancient times.
we’ll include a  slideshow to illustrate design concepts.
coopers can handle sizable prey like pheasants, crows, teal, even smaller raptors.
from germany, of bright green plastic.
“you’re down just three percent.
ca.us/commissions/housing public works commission meets thurs., dec. 4, at 7 p.m., at the north  berkeley senior center.
adrian’s music salon featuring lavender grace and teja gerken, singer-songwriters at 8 p.m. at the jazz house.
sponsored by the center for middle eastern studies.
mr. geller suggests that “the conference center shouldn’t need much parking...... visitors arriving by air can ride bart directly from either oak or sfo.”
tabor said she’s delighted to see williams follow in his  father’s footsteps and feels that with his return, great and new things  are going to happen in the church.
no citizen should be required to work so hard to fix a problem that should  be addressed by the agencies who exist to protect the health, safety and the  well being of all neighborhoods.
come out here on the weekend, and you can see them pulling drivers from the  fruitvale district to the san leandro border.
guided tour: gene(sis): contemporary art explores human genomics, at 12:15 p.m., berkeley art museum, 2626 bancroft way.
but what remains is the dangerous system whereby small numbers of policy-makers, acting at the very highest levels of secrecy, are able to make ill-considered decisions that will have long-term, tragic effects worldwide.
may be jen and jose, who have been sleeping in their  car.
how many die from drunk driving accidents in a year?
—jakob schiller interns sought california assembly majority leader wilma chan is looking for winter  student interns to serve in her oakland office.
appetizers and beverages will be served.
allen and others began organizing the church after officials at st. george’s methodist episcopal church didn’t allow blacks to participate in services.
“but because it sounded good on paper, the city went ahead with it.”
at the same meeting, council voted to place all of the electoral change measures on the march 2004 ballot, including adding filing fees and/or signature requirements to run for office in berkeley, lowering the percentage needed for a candidate to win, lengthening the time between elections and runoffs, and authorizing council to adopt instant runoff voting in the city once it becomes legally and economically feasible.
meanwhile, up on telegraph avenue, everybody’s spare-changing for fire safety.
i never understood why consuming chocolate in this unique fashion gave my former girlfriend such satisfaction.
and in 1995 a wing was added to the church to accommodate a growing congregation and multiple community outreach programs.
stein can be seen (though credit is rarely given her) as a forerunner of john ashbery, james tate, james merrill—those contemporary poets who “tell it slant,” as virginia woolf used to say.
antioxidants, as every berkeley citizen has undoubtedly heard, help fight heart disease and cancer as well as slow aging by exterminating pesky free radicals.
first, we here at the planet would like to make it clear that we have  never come out in opposition to the parcel tax, either for the march ballot or  for the november ballot.
“we can’t sustain the system  for long without some sort of government subsidy.”
composers, inc. is an illustrious bay area  enterprise, teaming up first-rate composers with equally stellar  performers.
plus, there’s your basic cut  pieces of bulk chocolate (i’m told the coffee market on gilman street is  a neighborhood shop with decent bulk prices) and, not to mention, edible  chocolate products intended to enhance creative erotic practices (e.g., check  good vibrations on san pablo avenue.)
wouldn’t you be tempted to buy one just  because of the name?
for example, in the late 1980s, after some members noticed that some black  students in berkeley city schools were not performing well on standardized  tests, st. paul developed a saturday school program that offered free tutoring  to students in various subjects, including mathematics and language.
“i’m not questioning my sexuality, but i am wondering about my sanity.
splendid birds that they are, i’ll admit to some ambivalence about  having cooper’s hawks in the neighborhood.
the program also offers help for teen parents.
when berkeley merchants and residents sat down with city officials to hash  out a vision for university avenue eight years ago, it was supposed to be a  break with history.
us/commissions/women fire safety commission meets wed., dec. 3, at 7:30 p.m. at the emergency operations center, 997 cedar st. david orth, 981-5502.
to my knowledge, the commissions have not yet been given the opportunity to discuss this proposal.”
www.ashkenaz.com simon stinger, castles in spain, hazerfan at 9:30 p.m. at blakes on telegraph.
created by mayor bates as part of his program to modify council rules and policies after his election last november, the committee triggered some initial controversy on city council.
by j. douglas allen-taylor friday november 28, 2003 an aide to berkeley mayor tom bates says that a proposal to funnel all  city commission reports through the city council agenda committee is not as  far-reaching as rumor appears to have it, and probably won’t be put into  place “if it’s going to be controversial.”
the toronto daily globe and mail later concluded that mohamed "was  working with u.s. counter-terrorist agents, playing a double or triple game,  when he was questioned in 1993."
de vries added that the agenda committee may want to look at either speeding up placement of commission reports on the council agenda, or delaying it “by no more than one week” for the purpose of coordination with other action being taken by council.
28 thanksgiving holiday - city offices are closed bay area women in black will hold a silent walking vigil to supposrt the  new palestine-israel geneva peace initiative and to protest us occupation of  iraq.
cost $10, $12  for non-residents.
for an organ soloist, she built an organ out of plant “horse tails” with a flower called buddha’s fingers reaching inside.
from germany, there’s a full orchestra of tiny angels playing musical instruments of all kinds, reflecting jutta’s passion for classical music.
currently, commission reports are automatically placed  directly on the council agenda after being examined by the city manager’s  office for fiscal impact and the manager’s recommendation.
since the students live there for more than 30 consecutive days, they aren’t considered transients and the city doesn’t collect the taxes they received from guests during the building’s holiday inn-carnation.
money collected by the department of motor vehicles from the vlf has been distributed to california cities and counties, all of which expect to take a huge financial hit from the governor’s action.
similar to massachusetts, the california state constitution opens with the following statement: “all people are by nature free and independent and have inalienable rights.
in 1999, california created a state domestic partner registry, required hospitals to extend visitation to domestic partners, and allowed state workers to receive health benefits for their partners.
she called that “really, a rare occurrence.
i read both the article (“mayor, university set downtown hotel plan,” daily planet, nov. 21-24”) and the letter by steve geller with interest.
“if the  mayor and councilmembers have to write to the newspaper [about getting the plan  implemented,] what are we supposed to do?” asked ifshin.
and remember that the berkeley hills themselves, come fall, turn green.
instead of offering pedestrian-friendly sidewalks and businesses that  merge harmoniously into the surrounding neighborhoods, university avenue  continues to be dominated by cars and dotted with empty storefronts.
his most recent book is drugs, oil and war:
calling the present tower an “oil derrick,” kalkanis urged councilmembers to “submit alternatives to the present tower to the standard review process.”
the opportunity is too good to pass up.
gay marriage is legally consistent with this basic civil tenet, because it  recognizes that adult citizens have the autonomy to be able to enter into legal  relationships of their choice without state interference or moral  obstruction.
and cruising local markets, i spotted an embarrassment of chocolate-covered riches, including: raisins, cranberries, cherries, strawberries, almonds, peanuts, pistachios, pecans, ginger, espresso beans, pretzels, malt balls and licorice.
www.lapena.org memorial for jerry sager, kpfa development guru, at 4 p.m. at the inland  end of the berkeley pier, by the sundial at the foot of university avenue.
it’s funny, though, but i don’t hear similar arguments being offered for the importation of other memorable reminders of northeastern weather—slush and snow, ice storms, humid summers, or swarms of biting flies and midges, for instance.
meanwhile hufferd insisted that the hotel would not offer special deals to  university groups that could diminish the city’s hotel tax revenue.
no, not the one in 1770s, the one in the 1960s when i discovered mcvitie’s while in a transcendent state.
cost is $5 for residents, $7 for  non-residents.
• ceramic toadstools from england and from the united states add a beautiful touch of whimsy to a garden.
here are a few suggestions for where we should go from here: first, having the main discussion of the revenue shortfall in the  unpublicized venue of the mayor’s revenue task force was a lousy idea.
the flower shop she started will celebrate its twentieth anniversary on dec. 9.
embrace the end, animosity, 30 years war, killing the dream at 924 gilman st. cost is $5.
“we need it codified and we need it now,” maio said.
“this is a life-saving measure,” said alameda county director  of health care services dave kears.
poole says the democrats won’t be able to pick a candidate until the  convention, and “there’s a lot going to happen between now and  then.
this thought in mind, i consulted my personal chocolate trainer (pct) to put together a list of such imports: bernard castelain, valrhona and michel cluizel (france), slitti and venchi (italy), lindt, rapunzel and toblerone (switzerland), callebaut and cote d’or (belgium), droste (holland), valor (spain), hachez (germany), green & black (u.k., but chocolate made in italy).
for more information call 834-3663.
we also have a small shady spot that needs the ivy removed and the soil prepared for a small native garden that we'll plant in december.
but according to oakland police chief richard word—a man not given  to public falsehoods—the spinning of donuts has not directly caused a  single death in this city.
because they don’t have to worry about finding shelter each night, they can spend their days looking for jobs and other programs to help them find more permanent housing—and for young homeless parents to send their children to school.
getting gifts makes me miserable.
we’ll use this  program to iron out the problems in the system.
in contrast, there’s no major “fall color” tree commonly planted in berkeley that also bursts forth with blossoms right when we most need them, in the first three or four months of the year.
if anybody read the daily planet today, that’s the kind of publicity we’re going to have all through the campaign.
www.thejazzhouse.com ellis paul and vance gilbert, new england singer-songwriters, at 8 p.m. at  freight and salvage.
third, it’s time for city leaders to finally drive a silver stake through the unworkable notion of “daylighting” strawberry creek.
all use fair trade cocoa and  ah!laska donates a percentage of the company’s profits to alaska wildlife  organizations.
allen and others began organizing the church after  officials at st. george’s methodist episcopal church didn’t allow  blacks to participate in services.
deborah chernin, 981-6715.
cost is $7, $5 with student i.d. 841-2082.
several police chases resulting in horrific traffic deaths  recently shocked the city of los angeles, which is not easily shocked.
seckels and bartletts, about $30;  6-in-1 espaliers, $50.
city public safety officials countered that the larger tower eliminates some of the city’s so-called “communications dead spots” along the edge of the hills and in some west berkeley neighborhoods where police with hand-held communications devices could not exchange messages with police headquarters under the two-antennae system.
several police chases resulting in horrific traffic deaths recently shocked the city of los angeles, which is not easily shocked.
office located at 2100 mlk, jr. way.
film yasujiro ozu: “late spring”at 2 and 7 p.m. and “an autumn  afternoon” at 4:10 and 9:10 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
among his creations are kucinich’s campaign website, www.denniskucinich.us, his electronic bulletin board, us.denniskucinich.us, and a wiki—a site each user can edit, alter, or otherwise contribute to—www.civicactions.org.
www.accigallery.com tea at four enjoy some of the best teas from the other side of the pacific rim and learn their cultural and natural history.
www.berkeleycameraclub.org wednesday, dec.
“our youth are our most precious commodity,” floyd said.
he’s the only candidate with an exit strategy for the war, the only  one with a real grasp of what’s happening to the environment.
“i believe,” williams said to sunday’s crowd “that  the best is yet to come.”
a report on the ongoing controversy, which has gone through several  studies and hearings, filled nearly 400 pages in last tuesday’s council  packet.
imagine if that money were spent to educate and promote available transit  to travelers.
it appears the hawks were using fairly sophisticated mental maps to maneuver  through their territories.
and several telegraph avenue vendors told leyden they’d noticed a decline in the numbers of transients on the street.
the  opportunity is too good to pass up.
4 “in conversation with political authors: in search of weapons of mass deception” panelists include ishmael reed, iris chang, daniel ellsberg and dori maynard, moderated by normon solomon.
according to the official website for the african methodist episcopal church, the ame church was started in the late 1700s.
www.freightandsalvage.org s.t.f.u., the lewd, words that burn, crop knox, eskapo at 8 p.m. at 924  gilman st. cost is $5.
admission $5, children free.
but the trauma of having it ripped apart by my fellow students was  something i wasn’t prepared for.
everything else will be supplied.
if anybody read the daily planet  today, that’s the kind of publicity we’re going to have all through  the campaign.
by marty  schiffenbauer special to the planet friday november 28, 2003 getting gifts makes me miserable.
in a proclamation of recognition that berkeley gave to the church on sunday, city officials praised st. paul for feeding 5,000 people each year through its tuesday community feeding program, a service that gives free meals to the hungry and homeless in berkeley.
building parking spaces is the no-brainer, default position.
music and dance concert for dignity and clothing drive to benefit operation dignity and their homeless services at 7:30 p.m. at imusicast, 5429 telegraph ave.
the event  will feature speakers, including congresswoman barbara lee, and the display of  300 pairs of shoes to symbolize the africans who will die of aids-related  causes in the hour that the rally takes place.
this is the first of a two-part series on the  university avenue strategic plan.
figures include a drummer, a flutist, a cymbalist and other instrumentalists.
then take a walk to see  wintering birds and dormant ladybeetles, from 4 to 5:30 p.m. at tilden nature  area, in tilden park.
early music with healing muses eileen hadidian, recorder and flute, maureen  brennan, celtic harp, natalie cox, renaissance and celtic harp, with dan  reiter, cello, at 8 p.m. at st. alban’s episcopal church, 1501 washington  ave., albany.
we’ll include a slideshow to illustrate design concepts.
three organic, hot chocolate brands that caught my eye while browsing shop  shelves are dagoba, lake champlain and ah!laska.
“i am dedicated to this church,” robinson said.
berkeley’s mayor seems not to be immune from this historic human tendency.
8-10” long, $13; 30” long, $25.
bar mitzvah  lessons no longer needed, i wound up spending my newly-freed friday afternoons  at the brooklyn public library.
bobby miller who has ridden on 16 of the 19 rides recalled one house several years ago where he found three young children “totally neglected,” while their mother “partied with her new boyfriend.”
for classes taught by a striking graduate student instructor, the department chair will determine the type of grade given.
it is now over 10 years since the first u.s. black hawks were downed by hits on the tail rotor with rpgs.
it can’t be in an out-of-the-way place.
i told him i agreed with mr. cowan’s assessment that the deal was too  complex.
if you would like to participate please send your  stories, with name company number and location if known, to ccc collection, po  box 5, woodbury nj 08096 or email to jfjmuseum@aol.com personnel commissioner sought for alameda county school board  responsibilities include administration of the merit system.
these are classes i don’t need to take—these are courses i can teach.
killing the messenger  isn’t going to make the crisis go away.
tanya holland introduces her new cookbook, “new soul cooking”  at 3 p.m. at barnes and noble.
seckel, bartlett, and 6-in-1 espaliers, varieties suited to local growing conditions.
with technology you can bring light and connections to people who think they’re alone, so that once they’re together they realize they can have power.”
www.lapena.org crater, modern jazz at 8 p.m. at the jazz house.
beautiful, sun-loving plant with deep green,  red-rimmed leaves (like those of a fig tree), deep pink stems and veins.
www.gtu.edu/studentgroups/trees sustainable development in cuba slide show and discussion based on ecotecture editor philip s. wenz’s trip to cuba, at 7 p.m. at the building education center, 812 page st. donation $10, no one turned away for lack of funds.
yet he  still managed to kick off st. paul’s new radio ministry.
the squatters have been living in this mobile home and in a second vehicle, an equally tattered rv, since may. the property, located in the 2800 block of san pablo avenue, has been our neighborhood’s eyesore for four years.
we need someone we can trust, who doesn’t put corporate interests above human rights.
eckhart tolle talks on video free gathering at 7:30 p.m. to hear the words of the author of “the power of now” at the feldenkrais ctr., 830 bancroft way.
it must be where volunteers want to walk dogs without fear.
we support the sixth and gilman site!
doris floyd, tabor’s daughter and a lifelong member of st. paul, said they are proud of their church mostly because of what it has meant to the berkeley community.
in any event, both newspapers agree that when he saw the highway patrol  officers, mr. brown sped away.
berkeley community chorus and orchestra perform handel’s  “messiah” at 4 p.m. at st. joseph the worker church, 1640 addison  st. 964-0665.
two years later, in the  aftermath of the knight initiative that passed defining marriage as being  between a man and a woman, another law was enacted that allowed twelve new  domestic partner rights.
and that’s a disappointment hereabouts in late january or  february when we’ve had a few months of chilly, wet, weather and  it’s important to see some green, instead of just gray branches  mournfully dripping rain.
chocolate-covered stuff decades ago i had a girlfriend who had a passion for chocolate-covered  halvah bars—or, more precisely, she had a passion for the chocolate on  chocolate-covered halvah bars.
i had already started a  novel
the exhibit brought back the most vivid memory i have of my first day in  berkeley: walking through sather gate and seeing an indian woman in a sari  coming toward me.
ibarra’s cinnamon-laden chocolate discs are packaged  in a pretty, hexagonal, red and yellow box, so you can save on gift-wrap.
on the church’s 70th anniversary, st. paul members worshiped god throughout the sunday service with music and movement.
on  the council sub committee and at the humane commission, we are very aware of  the traditional image of animal shelters as nothing more than warehouses to  store and kill unwanted animals.
behold ex-scientist wozzlebrain on tuesday.
(a dollar per bulb) mount them on  japanese river stones ($4.50/lb.) or tumbled glass—beautiful, rounded,  icy-pale aqua or white pieces of glass ($4.15/lb.), in a vessel of your choice.
www.ci.ber keley.ca.us/commissions/zoning commission on the status of women meets wed., dec. 3, at 7:30 p.m., at the north berkeley senior center.
especially in the pre-christmas season, the store reminds people who’ve been to germany of that country’s elegant florists, which carry not only cut flowers but plants, pots, and many small entertaining decorative objects.
we can cut downtown traffic significantly.
omitted from mr. koenigshofer’s letter is any mention of the years 1990 to 1994: during that time, a real estate industry-backed rent board majority increased berkeley’s rent levels by an unprecedented 50 percent across the board leading to extreme hardship for many renters.
aside from some completed landscaping projects, the university avenue  strategic plan has languished since the berkeley city council adopted it in  1996.
a uc pundit, with cooperation from official sources,  authored a glowing description of berkeley’s purported budget surplus  which was widely and approvingly reprinted in the progressive press.
www.ashkenaz.com grown and tremolo perform at 9:30 p.m. at the starry plough.
“in terms of the  basic bottom line, the most powerful force in berkeley is the staff.
but this year i was sadly conscious of the guests who  weren’t there: the cambodian student who left for a short visit to his  family and was inexplicably denied a return visa after 9/11; the canadian opera  singers who had to leave because they never could get working papers; the  israeli girl who went home to months in prison because she is a conscientious  objector.
floyd said st. paul is even taking on issues that have traditionally been  considered taboo in the church.
however, several berkeley citizens using the service, including councilmember dona spring, said east bay paratransit rides must be scheduled at least 24 hours in advance.
tickets are $10, $5 with student i.d. aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for dec. 2.
2 downtown development planning commission subcommittee on the proposed uc  hotel/conference center meets from 2 to 4 p.m. in the sitka spruce room, 2120  milvia st. 981-7484.
12” x 18”, $38.50;  8” x 14”, $33.50.
what if all downtown travelers benefited from this diversion of parking money, so that transit improved for everyone, and downtown automobile congestion decreased overall as a result of this project?
but she wants more than enforced standards.
from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m., $30 for save the bay members, $40 for  non-members.
bobby miller who has ridden on 16 of the 19 rides recalled one house  several years ago where he found three young children “totally  neglected,” while their mother “partied with her new  boyfriend.”
i’ve convinced myself my aversion to the present has its roots in  the past.
this picturesque yet utilitarian rustic bamboo broom sweeps up leaves, even wet ones, with ease.
we can  cut downtown traffic significantly.
www.lapena.org memorial for jerry sager, kpfa development guru, at 4 p.m. at the inland end of the berkeley pier, by the sundial at the foot of university avenue.
i have no doubt that scarlet oaks blaze vivid red or purple in sharper climates, but here they can be a profound disappointment as far as fall color is concerned.
off-loom beading  art objects including jewelry sale by featured artists.
org/benefitconcert.htm “maybe monday” performs an improvisational response to helen  mirra’s matrix exhibition at 6 p.m. in gallery 1, berkeley art museum,  2626 bancroft way.
[tuesday dec. 2] in a program by composers inc.
“around here, a lot of times the older homeless people, not to stereotype them, are on some very hard-core drugs,” said sean, who has been on the streets of berkeley for seven months.
finally, uc should not own the hotel property—mr. geller seems to agree with me here—and the hotel should rise no higher than the downtown plan’s allowed five to seven stories.
the dangers of drinking and driving need not be explained to the average  american adult.
in his mouth, a caramel, sour apple lollipop, in his hands a 10-pound oven-stuffer turkey.
the other side is approving a plan that had so many  complicated, expensive implementation measures that it was never possible to  implement it anyway,” fogarty said.
www.bacds.org free feldenkrais atm classes for adults 55 and older at 10:30 and 11:45 a.m. at the jewish community center, 1414 walnut at rose.
the logic is that when deserted storefronts give way to theaters and rehearsal space, optimistic developers cannot be far behind.
now i’m busy trying to figure out what classes i’ll take next semester.
its smaller cousin, the sharpshin, takes proportionally smaller prey, and is a definite threat to sparrow-sized birds.
www.codysbooks.com california writers’ club hosts joyce jenkins, editor of “poetry  flash” at 10 a.m. at barnes and noble.
meanwhile, any direction you go, developers are throwing money at buildings that have been vacant for years.
the lot historically has been classified as a used car  lot; however the use permits have expired long ago, there are no other existing  permits, and property taxes are in arrears.
instead of a  book bag, i need a large backpack or a suitcase with wheels.”
tickets are $10, $5 with student i.d. aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for  dec. 1.
for information call  848-0237.
in 1937, the church received  official incorporation from the african methodist episcopal church and became  st. paul.
operating at full capacity, each bed costs $13 a night, much less than other  emergency programs.
“there have been dramatic changes in the community and the economy  since [the plan was adopted,]” myers said.
www.freightandsalvage.org small brown bike, the orange band, scissorhands at 5 p.m. at 924 gilman st. cost is $5.
despite our best efforts, we have not gotten it in to the heads  of many of our friends and neighbors that the two are a deadly mixture.
all work is handcrafted, many pieces are one-of-a-kind.
to wheelchair cabs by j. douglas allen-taylor tuesday december 02, 2003 the chairperson of berkeley’s commission on disabilities
thanksgiving at our house has often included guests from other countries,  as it did this year.
meet at 3:30 p.m. on the west side of chevy’s restaurant at the public shore sign for an hour’s walk through the emeryville marina with views of san francisco and the golden gate bridge.
dominos delivers, even when robbed a dominos pizza delivery man was robbed at gunpoint while walking back to  his car after fulfilling an order saturday evening on the 1500 block of prince  street.
this  thought in mind, i consulted my personal chocolate trainer (pct) to put  together a list of such imports: bernard castelain, valrhona and michel cluizel  (france), slitti and venchi (italy), lindt, rapunzel and toblerone  (switzerland), callebaut and cote d’or (belgium), droste (holland), valor  (spain), hachez (germany), green & black (u.k., but chocolate made in  italy).
this program, which  st. paul runs through a partnership with the university of california office of  the president, aims to prepare high school students for college, floyd  said.
metallica gazing balls reflect a garden (and its onlooker), inviting contemplation and providing an intriguing accent to flora and foliage of all sorts.
she added, however, that st. paul’s commitment to outreach is one that has evolved over time.
and he believes that in due course berkeley residents will free  up spaces “by using transit instead of monthly passes.
the science behind genetically engineered plants a lecture with dr. andrew  gutierrez, professor of environmental science, policy, and management, graduate  theological union, from 7 to 8:30 p.m. at 2400 ridge rd.
as for what they were after, the terre haute cooper’s hawks concentrated on starlings, mourning doves, and feral pigeons.
plus you can receive thousands of rebate dollars from the state at the same time.
loic wacquant introduces “body and soul: notebooks of an apprentice  boxer” at 5:30 p.m. university press books, 2430 bancroft way.
i liked what i heard, but i had a question, so i went up  afterwards and asked him.
besides the $40k per space,  what cost would there be to the environment from pollutants?
weldon smith, a supervisor in the alameda county assessors office, said the downtown hotel would be exempt from property taxes, but as a moneymaking venture, the complex would have to pay a less cumbersome possesory interest tax that taxes the owner on investment income, and not a fixed rate based on the value of the property.
since 1980, aga adjustments have kept pace with bay area inflation, and maintained the constitutionally mandated ”net operating income” (or profit) level for all rent controlled units in berkeley.
breakfast with santa from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. at the claremont resort and spa.
this versatile digger has a  hand-forged 7” curved iron blade that resembles a small plough and can be  used to mound, to level, to weed, to cut furrows, and to tamp down newly  planted seeds and plants.
colormark’s metal watering wands come in rainbow hues that  recall the aluminum tumblers of the 1950s.
councilmembers wozniak and maio expressed concern that the tax measure couldn’t pass without a major campaign effort, and neither one said they could imagine how such a campaign could now be generated, given the depth of community opposition.
while you make holiday wrapping paper, gift tags and decorations from  recycycled products, from 12:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. at tilden nature area, in  tilden park.
in october, student instructors staged a hastily planned walkout, catching other university unions and many of its own members off guard and away from picket lines.
wendy derosa and guests at the 1923 teahouse at 8 p.m. donation of $7-$15.644-2204.
“we’ve been working on this a long time,” said a smiling  and excited emily wilcox shortly after council voted on first reading last week  to amend the city’s taxi ordinance to include the new disability-friendly  vehicles.
the devices had  position-sensitive mercury switches that signaled whether a hawk was perched in  its normal upright posture, waiting for something to happen, or in a horizontal  pose as it plucked and ate whatever it had killed.
women for peace anniversary luncheon with minoo moallem, ph.d., department  of women’s studies, sf state, at 12:30 p.m. at venezia restaurant, 1799  university ave.
councilmember hawley made a last-minute—and somewhat half-hearted—effort to save the march parcel tax measure, arguing that city council “has an obligation to the people of this community to let them vote on their options.
register with joan swift 724-6862.
hot chocolate guess which is healthier for you: red wine, green tea or hot chocolate?
“it is more dense than acton court, and the next project will be more dense than this one.
• bemuse a good vegetarian friend with a gift of the carniverous, vaguely sinister-looking sarracenia alata consists of a green stem, about a foot and a half long, that ends in a cobra shaped head.
on tuesday, berkeley police, for the nineteenth consecutive year, put the  service back into “to protect and serve,” handing out 250  thanksgiving dinners to families in need throughout berkeley—all earned  by the blood, sweat and quadriceps of 11 officers on bikes.
some of the choice offerings: outdoor plants: • coreopsis giganta, channel island tree coreopsis.
meet at 1 p.m. in the west end community  garden of people’s park.
the site’s yard-stick proximity to the downtown bart station, and frequent service by ac transit make it is easy to see how a relationship between local transit, the hotel and it’s visitors would be readily established.
the tower was built atop the public safety building on martin luther king jr. drive in 1999 to replace two existing 130-foot antennae.
i needed to read less than zero or  i was never going to make it in the class.
in california, the legal relationship between committed gays and lesbians  has been relinquished to the creation of a dazzlingly unequal system that in  very few ways parallels marriage: domestic partnership.
this served as the main american  recruiting center for the network that after the war became known as al qaeda.
second, berkeley theaters and restaurants can say goodbye to their  patrons from walnut creek, alameda, the oakland hills, marin county and  countless other places if they’re expected (especially at night) to wait  for a dwindling, sometimes unreliable or even non-existent bus service.
budget cuts will now have to take care of the entire deficit.
to my knowledge, the commissions have not yet been given the  opportunity to discuss this proposal.”
the birds in the study often lost visual contact with their targets during these broken-field runs, but seemed to know where they were headed.
according to the official website for the african methodist episcopal  church, the ame church was started in the late 1700s.
balkan  dance lesson with joe kaloyanides graziosi at 7:30 p.m.
“this project is significant because it’s one in a series,” said robin kibby, a university avenue corridor resident.
on this point, both newspapers are silent.
to cite several components: during 2002-03, the peralta community college and east bay regional park tax assessments both declined by—12.30 percent respectively.
during that meeting the board unanimously designated the property a “nuisance,” and clearly stated that abatement should be the course of action.
holiday food drive help the alameda county community food bank help people in need.
the bay on a canoe  paddle in the oakland estuary and learn about the impacts of the “first  flush” of polluted runoff from our streets, parks, gardens and homes into  the bay.
the trend itself is clear.
for  information, cal (916)691-7170.
but i’ll  limit myself to noting a single personal addiction here: mcvitie’s  chocolate-covered digestive crackers.
open to non-members of the club for $8 per class.
and it’s much appreciated.
most of the time, at least.
www.ashkenaz.com keni el lebrijano, flamenco guitar, at 8 p.m. at downtown.
“our job is  to provide council with information and choices.”
in any event, mr. brown was arrested by officers at the accident, and charged with felony drunk driving.
we really need to have more taxation  for necessary services since the fed and state are going republocrat nuts with  selfish, heartless and unrealistic slash and burn economic tactics.
ongoing holiday food drive help the alameda county community food bank help people  in need.
budgeted at $45,000, the program provides between five and six families with a room every night at a cost of about $60 per room.
“this is a blessing for me,” ruby evans said.
when the thief brandished a pistol and demanded money, the victim complied—then completed his other deliveries before calling police.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu readings and lectures terry wolverton reads from “embers: a novel in poems” at 7:30  p.m. at boadecia’s books, 398 colusa ave., kensington.
in francis’ opinion, the quest for denser housing drives the  planning department—and that’s not what’s best for the  neighborhood, she said.
“when our firefighters turned around and said ‘we don’t support it,’ i mean, come on,” bates said, exasperated.
this one rated an article in both the san francisco chronicle and the oakland tribune—as well as a column in the berkeley daily planet—because of the incidents preceding.
poole’s particularly fascinated with wikis (the word’s an hawaiian term meaning “quickie”), the increasingly popular user-built website, of which the best known is wikipedia.com, an encyclopedia written entirely by website visitors.
but, beware, only mcvitie’s
www.freightandsalvage.org eid-ul-fitr, islamic cultural celebration, marking the end of ramadan with music, poems and stories, at 3 p.m. at la peña cultural center.
but while that decision was no surprise—coming, as it did, a day  after mayor tom bates announced plans to withdraw support for his own  proposal—bates unexpectedly took the opportunity to accuse the berkeley  firefighters local of reneging on an earlier indication that they were  supporting the parcel tax.
“we simply want to work with the city in developing the most effective public safety system possible while respecting the character of our residential neighborhood and without defacing our historic civic center,” she said.
“i don’t know what is going to be discussed [at the next committee meeting].”
the subject was the narrow difference in effective radio transmission between the controversial public safety building communications tower and a proposed alternative.
when the plan was adopted in 1996, the planning commission created a subcommittee to supervise implementation—but when the commission membership changed, the plan fell by the wayside, fogarty said.
the program continued through the 1990s until the church began to develop other education programs like the academic center for excellence.
“and it’s not reliable even with a  reservation,” spring told council, stating that her experience has been  that “one out of five times, the east bay paratransit van doesn’t  show up.”
“we’ve been working on this a long time,” said a smiling and excited emily wilcox shortly after council voted on first reading last week to amend the city’s taxi ordinance to include the new disability-friendly vehicles.
but bates aide cisco de vries says that while a commission report proposal  was discussed during the nov. 10 agenda committee meeting, they didn’t  intend to censor the commissions.
the road has been paved, both in massachusetts and california, for gay marriage to be legally recognized.
let’s hope city officials have finally learned their lesson from uc’s past encroachments elsewhere.
for ages 12 and older, registration  required.
i don’t think the planet will sustain itself if we don’t make a radical change.
www.ci.ber keley.ca.us/commissions/zoning commission on the status of women meets wed., dec. 3, at 7:30 p.m., at the  north berkeley senior center.
planning for south berkeley, west berkeley and the city’s general plan emerged as more pressing concerns, said planning commissioner rob wrenn, the former chair of the commission.
www.berkeleyartisans.com
poole cites the supporter who, after he used the web to announce a cross-country walk in support of the candidate, was soon joined by four others, who are now going door-to-door in new york recruiting votes for their candidate.
if the supervisors accept the plan, the center must still cut another $33 million to eliminate its deficit.
take a look later  this winter, and consider whether trees that are green all year might not have  made more sense.
but if the city forecloses other relief, it is the course we’ll be forced to take.”
a superb one-stop hand tool for vegetable and flower beds.
creek fans should go see strawberry creek upstream on the uc campus (where it  runs above ground for everyone’s enjoyment).
in response, the l.a. city council instituted a temporary ban on police chases for minor traffic violations.
www.jazzschool.com “isis: the great goddess” a multimedia event of music, spoken  word and video at 8 p.m. at la peña cultural center.
i needed to learn how to write fiction.
car wash benefit for options recovery services of berkeley, held every sat.
known for being strong on planning but weak on action, the city of  berkeley wanted to create a strategic plan it could actually implement.
benefits the building education center and global exchange cuba program.
but no one to date has pointed out what mark bowden, author of the best  account of that battle, black hawk down, reported: that the somalis on the  ground had been trained by arabs who had fought against the soviets in  afghanistan.
the mayor’s task force on permitting and development is supposed to release its findings shortly, and poschman expects to see the matter on the planning commission agenda in december.
we’re an international city, and many of our retail stores mirror the  countries their owners came from.
council also directed city attorney manuela albuquerque to investigate  whether berkeley should join in a lawsuit against gov. schwarzenegger for  lowering the state vehicle license fee (vlf).
councilmember hawley made a last-minute—and somewhat  half-hearted—effort to save the march parcel tax measure, arguing that  city council “has an obligation to the people of this community to let  them vote on their options.
“we rely a lot on graduate students to learn the material,”  said uc berkeley senior megan thornton.
one of the continuing joys of living in berkeley is that the world has always come to us.
county supervisors have feuded with the center’s county-appointed board of trustees this year over the budget deficit.
• rosarians (the fancy name for rose gardeners) will really appreciate “the american beauty,” tahoe gloves’ long leather and nylon gauntlets.
the cut-and-hold model keeps the harvest from falling onto the ground  and getting bruised or broken.
we offer ongoing classes in exercise and creative arts, and always welcome new members over 50.
metallica gazing balls reflect a garden (and its onlooker),  inviting contemplation and providing an intriguing accent to flora and foliage  of all sorts.
real fall color often requires sharply dropping temperatures and frosts.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/commissions/publicworks arts calendar friday, nov. 28 children splash circus, “in the magical forest” at 2 p.m. at julia  morgan center for the arts, 2640 college ave.
no, it’s just fall color
benefits junior league of oakland-east bay  community projects.
donations of $8-$15 suggested.
in case you don’t catch my drift, dark chocolate is de rigueur!
[on the  committee],” she added.
“the planning department contends there’s a disconnect between the strategic plan and reality.”
“this is a life-saving measure,” said alameda county director of health care services dave kears.
berkeley camera club meets at 7:30 p.m., at the northbrae community church,  941
jutta’s flowers, on claremont avenue next to the star grocery, is a perfect example of how the process works.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/energy city meetings commission on the status of women meets wed., dec. 3, at 7:30 p.m., at the north berkeley senior center.
crime reduction was a major focus of the strategic plan, and conditions improved starting in the late 1990s—though that have resulted more from the overall state of the economy than any city efforts, he said.
these days my gift-receiving phobia isn’t much of a problem.
the alameda county taxpayers association endorsed the tax hike after  learning it will sunset in 2019.
berkeley communicators toastmasters meets the first and third wednesdays of the month at 7:15 a.m. at hide-a-way café, 6430 telegraph ave.
another excellent choice is ibarra’s traditional mexican hot chocolate product.
two of berkeley’s  keystone native tree species—live oaks and bay laurels—are green  year round.
1 exhibition openings “bay area blues: blues musicians on site” a digital photography display at berkeley public library opens today and runs through the month of december.
“i’m really working on trying to open up communications and create an infrastructure for building up decentralized communities,” he explains.
www.ashkenaz.com the bobs, a cappella, with special guest bob malone, at 8 p.m. at freight  and salvage.
zoning  adjustments board, design review committee, and landmarks preservation  commission.
because they don’t have to worry about finding shelter each night, they  can spend their days looking for jobs and other programs to help them find more  permanent housing—and for young homeless parents to send their children  to school.
another site is earmarked to be part of a new bike trail linking  emeryville and berkeley and requires a substantial swath of the land, and the  site on carlton street, west of seventh street near the railroad tracks, is so  close to the bayer plant that many people felt the proximity to a company  engaged in live animal testing would present an image problem for the berkeley  animal shelter.
for the past three decades i’ve heard well-meaning people suggest less reliance on cars and more on public transit.
as far as i’m concerned, i  learned most of what i need to know in my ninth grade english class.
demand that president bush  and congress allocate the $15 billion for aids services in africa that the  president promised in his january 2003 state of the union address.
positions are available in media relations, community outreach, education and policy.
if you subscribe to the theory that scrappy arts venues are a precursor to big-time gentrification, downtown oakland may be ready for its oft-rumored, oft-postponed real estate boom.
once the new ordinance receives final approval from city council, city  staff believes they’ll have little trouble getting cab companies to  apply.
there was a very modest discussion of whether or not contracts should be re-negotiated, but it took place in the council’s afternoon rump session, mostly behind closed doors, with a very short public session held only after councilmember worthington insisted.
meet up for howard dean at three berkeley locations: au coquelet, 2000  university ave.; raleigh’s (generation dean youth meeting), 2438  telegraph ave.; sweet basil thai restaurant, 1736 solano ave.
if not, she added, “our attorney informs us we have clear grounds for legal action.
coopers can handle sizable prey like  pheasants, crows, teal, even smaller raptors.
another reason why too much fall color is undesirable in berkeley has to do with the essential fact that fall color means leaves are dropped.
the parcel tax would have been earmarked  entirely for fire services in berkeley.
last word poetry series presents garrett murphy and marianne robinson from 7 to 9 p.m. at pegasus bookstore, 2349 shattuck ave.
on one side is the city’s planning department, supporting dense “smart growth” intended to preserve open space on the urban fringe.
what he failed to mention was that women and blacks were not allowed to  vote.
mehta  said striking instructors would refrain from offering review sessions and  proctoring and wouldn’t grade final exams.
if they get all their  funding, she said, they’ll be open seven days a week through march.
• handblown glass hummingbird feeders.
on nov. 19, 2003, they and thousands of their gay and lesbian neighbors arrived at their destination: the state supreme court ruled that it is unconstitutional to prohibit same-sex couples from marrying because, in the words of the chief justice, to exclude gays from marriage “is incompatible with the constitutional principles of respect for individual autonomy and equality under law.”
this is not to say i’m against some fall color on berkeley’s streets and in her front yards.
after prolonged negotiations, ucsc eventually paid the city $75,000 to  mitigate the lost revenues, he added.
it was catherine fitts, a professional collaborator and fellow activist,  who introduced poole to herman gear, kucinich’s campaign architect.
shaw, who also uses a wheelchair, said that “there have been  many other members of [the disabled] community who have been killed or injured  in accidents.
attempted robbery two men attacked a berkeley resident sunday night, only to find his wallet  was empty.
www.beckettsirishpub.com grand unified theory, forget the jonses, the apples, the silence, static  thought at 8 p.m. at 924 gilman st. cost is $5.
shamanic journeying meditation, from noon to 1:30 p.m. free.
this is the first of a two-part series on the university avenue strategic plan.
on this point, both newspapers  are silent.
a short field trip to a functioning house/system in berkeley and current catalog of available equipment are also included.
antioxidants,  as every berkeley citizen has undoubtedly heard, help fight heart disease and  cancer as well as slow aging by exterminating pesky free radicals.
the san francisco opera put up mother of us all earlier in the season, and the metro (also known as oakland opera theater) did three sisters who are not sisters last year.
we have, cassandra-like, suggested in editorials that things were not going well for tax supporters.
what it’s  done is given us a little bit of time to get questions answered about agenda  items beforehand, so we don’t have to ask them during the night of the  council meeting.
perhaps mr. artz should try paying property taxes on a limited income before he makes any more snide remarks about berkeley voters.
now, it takes brave souls to travel this difficult but rewarding path, like the 11 in massachusetts or the two back in 1948, to judicially challenge restrictive marriage laws in california.
www.starryploughpub.com music and dance noon concert with the university chorus at international house, at the corner of bancroft and piedmont aves.
in california, the legal relationship between committed gays and lesbians has been relinquished to the creation of a dazzlingly unequal system that in very few ways parallels marriage: domestic partnership.
the electronic campaigner isn’t discouraged by media portrayals of cleveland congressman as an outsider with little chance of winning the democratic nomination.
newest shelter helps the young homeless
tests had revealed the two differed by three percent (one misfired six percent of the time, the other nine percent).
drought-tolerant, rare and unusual plants, many notable for their striking, e.g. elegant, amusing, just plain weird, form and color.
it could double as a great home dec accent  and/or halloween accessory for the witch(es) in your life.
only councilmember maude shirek supported hawley’s efforts to keep  the parcel tax on the march ballot, while dona spring and kriss worthington,  abstained.
in the article “amy goodman praises berkeley 3 at savio awards,” (daily planet, nov. 25-27), featured lecturer goodman was incorrectly reported to be the recipient of the mario savio free speech award.
dick penniman’s avalanche safety, slide lecture and video presentation on the fundamentals: avalanche phenomena, meteorology, snowpack formation, route selection, stability evaluation and rescue techniques, at 6 p.m. at at rei, 1338 san pablo ave.
the first flush: canoe outing with save the bay in oakland what are the first of the winter rains carrying into our bay?
the sign would be visible to everyone using the university avenue freeway entrance—and this would be one of the most visible buildings in berkeley.
a quick google search reveals that publications all around the world have had experience with newsmakers blaming the press for reporting bad news.
“it’s not something we get to usually  do.”
among these are enjoying and defending life and  liberty, acquiring, possessing, and protecting property, and pursuing and  obtaining safety, happiness, and privacy.”
www.freightandsalvage.org eid-ul-fitr, islamic cultural celebration, marking the end of ramadan with  music, poems and stories, at 3 p.m. at la peña cultural center.
planted right after the holidays, it will get established  over the winter so that it’s ready to go and grow in the spring.
he told the daily planet’s reporter that articles about opposition  to the proposed parcel tax were responsible for the decision not to put it on  the march ballot.
• garden gnomes got popular at westbrae after one appeared in the  movie amelie.
you’re not actually down at all!
this fanciful, 10-liter watering can in the shape of a frog will  make you smile.
set in water water, it  will attract the gnats it likes to eat.
once the new ordinance receives final approval from city council, city staff believes they’ll have little trouble getting cab companies to apply.
yup, it’s hot chocolate.
of this illustrious lot, my pct reserves her highest accolades for cote d’or, which she claims is not just palate-pleasing but a powerful antidepressant (she should know, as in her spare time she’s a shrink).
started as a hobby by john justin, and dedicated to his father, james, a  cccer, the site is seeking stories about ccc camps, enrollees, staff and  technical advisors.
uc ownership would deny the city  important property tax revenue.
both say they’ve caught pneumonia sleeping on the streets and welcomed a chance to stay at the shelter, especially because they can bring their pooch.
an information report for the agenda committee proposed changes is scheduled to be presented to city council at council’s dec. 9 meeting.
police said the assailant approached the woman while she was parking her car in the area of stuart street and shattuck avenue, then climbed into the vehicle and sexually assaulted her.
ww.ci.berkeley.ca.us/ commissions/parksandrecreation peace and justice commission meets mon., dec. 1, at 7 p.m., at the north berkeley senior center.
in this ruling, justices  concurred that marriage is a fundamental right of all citizens, and moreover  that “legislation infringing such rights must be based upon more than  prejudice and must be free from oppressive discrimination to comply with the  constitutional requirements of due process and equal protection of the  laws.”
its destruction would represent an irreplaceable loss of history.
jutta’s makes an art of floral tributes by becky  o’malley friday november 28, 2003 berkeley is home to many unique small businesses started by people from  all over the world who came to california, liked what they found, and stayed.
10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 1652
a self-guided tour presents opportunities to meet the artists  and see working craft studios.
bates also said that the firefighters opposed the tax “for reasons  that are not totally clear to me.”
www.connectingthroughdance.org berkeley community chorus and orchestra perform handel’s  “messiah” at 8 p.m. at st. joseph the worker church, 1640 addison  st. 964-0665.
set in water water, it will attract the gnats it likes to eat.
some  smaller trees such as japanese maples also provide beautiful color.
cooper’s hawks are the midsize model of the trio of north american accipiters, about crow-sized; smaller than the northern goshawk, larger than the oddly-named sharp-shinned hawk.
but davis city manager jim antonen complimented uc for addressing his city’s concerns.
westbrae nursery and gift, 1271 gilman st. 526-7606.
tabor got up extra early on the morning of nov. 16, the day williams gave his first sermon as st. paul’s pastor.
tabor said she doesn’t really mind the changes, because she knows they’re necessary to keep the church alive.
during the same period, for example, the following aga components remained  flat or increased: city business license (0 percent), street lighting (0  percent), lead abatement (0 percent), insurance (1.6 percent), school bonds  (1.6 percent) and property taxes (2 percent), to list a few items.
tabor has been a member of st. paul since 1943, and is known around the church as “granma tabor.”
www.ashkenaz.com mimi fox, solo guitar, at 8 p.m. at downtown.
even the nomenclature “domestic partnership” clearly shows separate legal status from marriage, and highlights the second-class position of committed gay relationships in the eyes of the law.
she called that “really, a rare  occurrence.
maestro kent nagano frequently programs unusual compositions by modern composers, often world premieres.
the meals were enough to feed eight, with the fixings paid for by the $8,000 raised by the 11 bike riders from the berkeley and uc berkeley police departments and the turkeys donated by safeway.
organic alfalfa meal: high in  nitrogen, but with a fresh, sweet smell.
sliding scale donation $0-$20.
tickets  are $7-$18 at the door.
the estimated $200 million project would be financed in conjunction with a private developer and could be completed as soon as 2007.
they’re also concerned about what they consider oversized buildings  dominating the corridor, which runs west from oxford street to interstate 80  and is bounded by delaware street to the north and allston way to the south.
www.codysbooks.com music and dance cantare chorale and chamber ensemble, “o holy night,” 115  voices accompanied by winds, brass and organ at 3 p.m. at first presbyterian  church, corner of 27th and broadway, oakland.
uc senior planner kevin hufferd will make a presentation and field  questions about the development that calls for demolishing the bank of america  at the corner of center street and shattuck avenue to make way for an estimated  200-room hotel with a 15,000-square-foot conference center and  5,000-square-foot bank above one level of underground parking.
the effect—a feathered projectile hurtling past the kitchen window—would be even more startling from ground level.
jutta emphasizes that her artistic floral tributes are based on deep emotional appreciation of the music.
westbrae has gazing balls in silver (the most popular color  because it provides the best reflection), gold, green, red, teal and puprle.
theater aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for dec. 2.
however, according to my pct, the  planet’s preeminent hot chocolate is served at chez angelina rumpelmayer  in paris—where proust himself plotted his conquests.
www.ashkenaz.com moore brothers and golden shoulders at 9:30 p.m. at the starry plough.
comes with a  stainless steel trowel, fork, and three-tined cultivator, all with red oak  handles.
he said he believes the planning  department has its own agenda for the corridor—which runs west from  oxford street to interstate 80 and is bounded by delaware street to the north  and allston way to the south—and elsewhere.
dancers moved through the aisles dressed in black leotards and  long skirts with their waists wrapped in afro-centric fabric.
642-9988  www.berkeleycityballet.org rose street art meets rose street music with a concert by irina rivkin and  maria quiles at 6 p.m. at boadecia’s books, 398 colusa ave., kensington.
after a berkeley city council meeting he’s slipped by three percent.
famous as the indispensable chocolate egg cream ingredient, the legendary syrup is also terrific for concocting yummy hot chocolate.
they had earlier asked that the tower be torn down and replaced with the original 130-foot pair.
bates also said that the firefighters opposed the tax “for reasons that are not totally clear to me.”
“unless i feel it, i can’t connect with it,” she  says.
the resources are there.
francis agrees with maio and bates that one immediate concern is enforcing building standards that haven’t been applied since the plan was adopted.
noisy and annoying, yes.
the commission on disability first requested permits for wheelchair-accessible taxis in berkeley in 1999 and was later joined in the effort by the commission on aging.
“i felt fortunate  to know that the turkey ride had made life better for three small  children,” he said.
this one  rated an article in both the san francisco chronicle and the oakland  tribune—as well as a column in the berkeley daily planet—because of  the incidents preceding.
i never  understood why consuming chocolate in this unique fashion gave my former  girlfriend such satisfaction.
www.beckettsirishpub.com saturday, nov. 29 children dan zanes & friends perform roots music for the entire family at 2 p.m.  at zellerbach hall, uc campus.
like many  others in berkeley who are on e-mail trees, we got even more letters from  opponents reluctant to have their names appear in print because they feared  (rightly or wrongly) retaliation from city officials.
www.freightandsalvage.org sterling dervish at 9:30 p.m. at beckett’s irish pub, 2271 shattuck ave.
in short: an animal shelter is a good neighbor.
the cyclist held tight, and when she  started yelling the two youths and a companion fled the scene.
sponsored by the international solidarity movement.
“we realize  students will be hurt by this, but the university has continued to break the  law and put this on themselves.”
on a motion from councilmember dona spring, council voted 6-2-1 (worthington and wozniak voting no, shirek abstaining) to investigate putting up a single 160-foot pole to replace the current 160-foot multi-antennae tower.
ww.ci.berkeley.ca.us/ commissions/parksandrecreation peace and justice commission meets mon., dec. 1, at 7 p.m., at the north  berkeley senior center.
later that day, a ford probe sideswiped lt. agnew, knocking off the car’s sideview mirror and bruising his hip.
in 1937, the church received official incorporation from the african methodist episcopal church and became st. paul.
tickets are $7-$18 at the door.
if the $60,000 a year incredibly necessary yeah!
www.starryploughpub.com jamie davis at 8:30 p.m. at downtown.
sliding scale donation  $0-$20.
uc botanical garden docent training at 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.
so i wasn’t too worried about fulfilling the requirements of that  class.
in ithaca, ny— a much smaller city with absolutely greater downtown  appeal than berkeley— there is a wonderful pedestrian mall that functions  as it was designed to and has blossomed over the years since its creation into  a diverse and profitable business open space and has year-round heavily  attended community functions.
public hearings should have been at the beginning, not at the end of the process.
among these are enjoying and defending life and liberty, acquiring, possessing, and protecting property, and pursuing and obtaining safety, happiness, and privacy.”
bates said that both san diego and santa clara counties have announced  lawsuits against the state of california for the governor’s actions,  while the california league of cities is also considering similar action.
as  right-wing columnists and web sites have been quick to point out, this is  exactly the technique that brought down three black hawks in mogadishu,  somalia, in october 1993.
in 1993, the year of mogadishu, mohamed was picked up by the royal  canadian mounted police in canada in the company of an al qaeda terrorist.
we started talking and we got along really well.
st. john's prime timers tap dancing class meets on thursday mornings at 9:15 a.m. at st. john's presbyterian church at 2717 garber st. class is free and open to anyone over 50.
almost certainly he would have been arrested; but mohamed insisted that the rcmp put in a phone call to his fbi handler.
but on one  point he reveals some wishful thinking, shared, i’m afraid, by too many  of our fellow citizens.
like many others in berkeley who are on e-mail trees, we got even more letters from opponents reluctant to have their names appear in print because they feared (rightly or wrongly) retaliation from city officials.
the berkeley animal cares services will be in the  building for maybe 50 years, so you have to design it well and place it  excellently.
www.giorgigallery.com “winter songs with kitka,” women’s vocal ensemble performs seasonal music from eastern europe at 7 p.m. at lake merritt united methodist church, 1330 lakeshore ave.
the police are starting to work on their share of the report to city  council, said berkeley police sgt.
one  semester of ninth grade english in my school was devoted to what we called  “mythology,” that is, the stories that the ancient greeks and  romans used to explain the universe.
the text is a doozy, an internal memo from lawrence  summers (then chief economic advisor to the world bank, now president of  harvard).
for details please contact  alameda county office of education, 670-7703.
from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the lutheran church, 1744 university ave. 666-9552.
is it something they’re putting in the water?
but coopers seem to exclude sharpshins from their hunting  territories; only a few sharpies were observed in the terre haute study, most  at the periphery of the coopers’ turf.
he could not do so,  however, without using the opportunity to take a swipe at critics of the tax  measure.
“and it’s not reliable even with a reservation,” spring told council, stating that her experience has been that “one out of five times, the east bay paratransit van doesn’t show up.”
“it’s hard to have a  nice holiday when you can’t afford a turkey.”
“pills profits and protest: voices of global aids activists” a  documentary, followed by discussion at 3 p.m. at parkway theater, 1834 park st.  a world aids day benefit for health gap, act up east bay and action=life film  collective.
the researchers shadowed the  hawks daily until early spring and reported that the birds “were  unperturbed by the presence of humans in vehicles or other urban  disturbances.”
the united states in afghanistan, colombia, and indochina (rowman and littlefield, 2003).
in june of 2003 the new city agency “code enforcement” finally took an interest.
the agenda committee meets at 2:30 p.m. on the sixth floor of city hall.
music and dance concert for dignity and clothing drive to benefit operation dignity at 7:30 p.m. at imusicast, 5429 telegraph ave.
3 aurora theatre company, “the play of daniel” see listing for  dec. 2.
volunteer trainings will take place from 7 to  9:30 p.m. tonight, and also on dec. 9.
“when drivers rev their engines and wage spinning contests to the delight of crowds that can number in the hundreds.”
“we know that the youth are really attached to their animals,”  said leyden.
but this year i was sadly conscious of the guests who weren’t there: the cambodian student who left for a short visit to his family and was inexplicably denied a return visa after 9/11; the canadian opera singers who had to leave because they never could get working papers; the israeli girl who went home to months in prison because she is a conscientious objector.
the dry garden, 6556 shattuck ave.
bring a bag of lunch, beverage provided.
for further information and to register, call karen ray at 848-7800.
watch fragrant flowers bloom in your home this winter.
marcel proust was notorious for manipulating his friends through  gift-giving.
micallef says the additional programs are useful for emergency use, but are only a partial fix for the city’s long-running homelessness problem.
yu hua reads from his new book, “chronicle of a blood  merchant,” set during the early years of china’s cultural  revolution, at 7:30 p.m. at cody’s books.
moreover, matching grants for capital improvements have dried up the past couple of years, following the recession.
decadent delights await the chocoholic’s palate
loic wacquant introduces “body and soul: notebooks of an apprentice boxer” at 5:30 p.m. university press books, 2430 bancroft way.
in reality, in most places i’ve seen it planted in  berkeley, it’s not at all red in the fall.
and i’m less discontented with my lengthy appellation.
cost is $15.50 advance, $16.50 at the door.
at 7:25 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
3rd rail, fellatia, jynx at 9:30 p.m. at blakes on telegraph.
by andrew becker  special to the planet friday november 28, 2003 editor’s note:
maestro kent  nagano frequently programs unusual compositions by modern composers, often  world premieres.
this is not brilliant urban design, but it is an obvious way to end the  current impasse and get the shelter built.
matrix exhibition at 6 p.m. in gallery 1, berkeley art museum, 2626 bancroft  way.
fccsb@mindspring.com berkeley community chorus and orchestra perform handel’s “messiah” at 4 p.m. at st. joseph the worker church, 1640 addison st. 964-0665.
instead of standing in line in a big gymnasium, i stood in line in cyberspace and got none of my first or second choices in classes.
gardeners, especially rose gardeners,  love it.
kgb, solemite, limbeck at 9:30 p.m. at blakes on telegraph.
www.berkeleyballet.org berkeley city ballet, “the nutcracker,” at 7 p.m. at zellerbach  playhouse, uc berkeley campus.
for every problem, it has been my experience, there is a multiplicity of satisfying and exemplary solutions.
7 holiday festival: arts and crafts show and sale paintings, photography,  crafts and greeting cards on view and on sale, from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.
berkeley, on the other hand, went on believing that the future was rosy for much too long.
east bay nursery, 2332 san pablo ave. 845-6490.
the medical center—which also includes fairmont hospital in san  leandro, john george psychiatric pavilion in san leandro and three outpatient  clinics—has seen its $353 million budget busted by funding cuts, expense  increases and swelling ranks of the uninsured they are mandated to serve.
both papers implied  that there was a “sideshow” going on, though never saying so  explicitly, and the chronicle article also included a helpful explanation of  “sideshow” activity for readers west of the bay not familiar with  the practice: they occur (according to the chronicle)
holiday plant sale from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the botanical garden, 200 centennial drive.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/citycouncil/agenda-committee berkeley rent stabilization board meets mon., dec. 1, at 7 p.m., in city council chambers, pam wyche 644-6128 ext.
“we would have liked the whole 120 cabs in berkeley to be wheelchair-accessible, of course, but this is a start.
unitarian universalist church of berkeley, 1 lawson road,  kensington.
restaurant robbed two men robbed the popeye’s restaurant on the 1700 block of san pablo avenue saturday night.
poschman acknowledged that there’s often a time lag on city projects like the university avenue strategic plan.
so the house once famous for psychedelics and revolutionary politics is hosting another revolution, more sober and less inflammatory perhaps, but no less challenging for all that.
sling one over your arm or shoulder in the garden, just hose it off.
council itself must make the final decision on any proposed changes.
“you’d think people would go online and trash the sites, but they don’t.
sliding scale donation $10-$15.
on the related berkeley building heights issue, i believe we need less-than-10-story structures with periphery and local above-ground parking.
police said one robber wielded a gun, jumped the  counter and demanded money from an employee, who handed over the cash from a  safe before the bandits fled out the back door.
berkeley youth alternatives, blue and gold basketball tournament, 11 years  and under division, dec. 5-7, at the bya gym, 1255 allston way.
www.starryploughpub.com “a context for peace” new work from bay area musicians, authors  and poets at 8 p.m. at la peña cultural center.
despite a recent request by the city council for a progress report due in january and a commentary in the berkeley daily planet in which maio and mayor tom bates called for zoning regulation changes to implement the university avenue plan, residents are frustrated by what they call a lack of leadership.
planning commissioner rob wrenn said there’s a potential conflict  between the state requirements and the original plan were it to be  implemented—specifically with the decreasing density between the high  concentration “nodes” which the plan mandates.
it wasn’t long before he blended his outsider’s passion for connection with his technological gifts.
“we  simply want to work with the city in developing the most effective public  safety system possible while respecting the character of our residential  neighborhood and without defacing our historic civic center,” she  said.
“there’s so much enthusiasm on working on new plans, [but] we  don’t have enough staff to work on new plans and do implementation of new  plans.
people using wheelchairs that can’t be folded can’t use taxis currently operating out of berkeley and must either use ac transit buses equipped with motorized lifts or schedule transportation with east bay paratransit services, a joint consortium of ac transit and the bay area rapid transit district.
the same ones who  originally saw mr. brown at 73rd and bancroft?
these 27 state domestic partnership rights pale in comparison to the more  than 1,000 state and federal rights granted legally married couples.
it turns out that i had a lot of catching up to do.
positions are available in  media relations, community outreach, education and policy.
evening restaurant  and theater -goers will come by bus.”
holds exciting potential for downtown berkeley.
i’d be disloyal if i didn’t pay homage to the pride of brooklyn, fox’s u-bet chocolate syrup.
for information call internship  manager garrett dempsey at 286-1670 or e-mail your resume and any questions to  garrett.dempsey@asm.ca.gov.
3 zapatistas turn 20, a benefit celebration for the chiapas support committee, at 7:30 p.m. at la peña cultural center.
the prospect of a “more tolerant and peaceful world” seems  more remote than ever.
on sunday, williams asked his congregation to pray for him and his family  and be patient as he gets settled in his new role.
what it’s done is given us a little bit of time to get questions answered about agenda items beforehand, so we don’t have to ask them during the night of the council meeting.
for more information, call  vera 234-8949.
bates also questioned both the timing of the firefighters’ decision  to oppose the tax, as well as the union local’s contention that they had  not been formally informed by city officials that the tax would be set aside  for the fire department.
i’m just glad it’s done.”
this workshop will cover ecological landscape design basics and will be held indoors at the ecology center from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
williams said he hopes listeners will be inspired by the saturday  broadcast and motivated to visit st. paul the following morning.
on the other side are residents who want housing that maintains neighborhood character.
noting that the discussions occurred during a six-month review of the agenda committee, de vries said one proposal would give the agenda committee the ability to move an individual commission report from the consent calendar—which is passed with no individual discussion—to the action calendar, where questions or debate occur.
one is drinking and driving.
jackie hetman will show slides of northern sweden and lapland at 11 a.m.
• bemuse a good vegetarian friend with a gift of the carniverous,  vaguely sinister-looking sarracenia alata consists of a green stem, about a  foot and a half long, that ends in a cobra shaped head.
by matthew artz tuesday december 02, 2003 cyclist foils would-be bandits police arrested two juveniles saturday after the failed robbery of a bike  rider.
www.ashkenaz.com the bobs, a cappella, with special guest bob malone, at 8 p.m. at freight and salvage.
to boost revenue, the center is seeking to improve services to attract insured patients, but two of the more profitable departments, cardiac and obstetrics, are slated for cuts.
on the  church’s 70th anniversary, st. paul members worshiped god throughout the  sunday service with music and movement.
police ask that anyone with information about the crime call the sex crimes unit at 981-5735.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/commissions/publicworks community environmental advisory commission meets fri., dec. 5, at 7 p.m., at 2118 milvia st. nabil al-hadithy, 981-7461.
volunteers work 10 hours a week and should have good writing and word processing skills.
buy an assortment of premium european chocolate bars and include them in a gift basket along with scharffen berger selections.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu readings and lectures june jordan’s poetry for the people annual exibition of student poets  at 7 p.m. in the lipman room, barrows hall, uc campus.
what would underground parking do to the creek?
people haven’t changed  much since ancient times.
now, with proposals on the table for at least two five-story building developments in the university avenue corridor, the strategic plan is starting to get attention again.
raleigh’s (generation dean youth meeting), 2438
executive director marty lynch said with fewer insured residents and less public money to pay for them, lifelong has had to turn back 20-30 patients per week at its four clinics.
last week williams was busy visiting the sick, preparing for the church’s annual revival and anniversary celebration and planning a trip back to kansas city to complete his move from that city to berkeley.
what he failed to mention was that women and blacks were not allowed to vote.
6 children los amiguitos de la peña with derique the high tech clown at 10:30  a.m. at la peña.
anyway, it seems the yen for stuff covered with chocolate is universal, from chocolate-covered matzohs to chocolate-covered crickets.
cooper’s hawks are the midsize model of the trio of north american  accipiters, about crow-sized; smaller than the northern goshawk, larger than  the oddly-named sharp-shinned hawk.
marz, who has been on the berkeley streets for six months, had his sick  spell and says he’s now developed immunities.
editors, daily planet: the road leading to full inclusion of gay civil marriage in california state law has been marked with detours to the land of “domestic partnership.”
one of the sites, 15 feet from the railroad tracks, was so noisy that the  realtor suggested we put in triple glazing and keep the windows permanently  closed.
it is an issue of safety, as  well.”
now 40, he’s a longtime member and current boardmember of the free software foundation.
look at the governator.
meet at 1 p.m. in the west end community garden of people’s park.
told about the agenda  committee proposal regarding commission reports, planning commission  chairperson zelda bronstein said that “before any such proposal is taken  to city council for discussion, any changes in procedures in how commission  reports come before council ought to be first presented to the commissions  themselves.
“unless i feel it, i can’t connect with it,” she says.
scharffenberger and partner robert steinberg moved their doubly eponymous scharffen berger chocolate business to berkeley a couple of years ago and their pure dark chocolate rivals that fabricated by the creme de la creme of continental chocolatiers.
thomas myers, acting manager of berkeley’s office of economic development, said much has already been done on university avenue.
i’ve studied the mfa curriculum as well as the undergraduate  creative writing offerings and the nursing school’s courses in geriatric  studies.
lori zook, executive director of o.o.t., has been struck by the  strange, canny craftsmanship of stein’s text and lyrics.
indoor plants • lovely begonia fuchsiodes sports beautiful, deep red, fuchscia-like flowers.
ase’s receive a minimum of $14,200 for a nine-month work year as well as health benefits and student fee waivers for those listed as working 25 percent of their time on instruction—among the better packages in public education according to uc spokesperson paul schwartz.
i had already started a novel so i wasn’t too worried about fulfilling the requirements of that class.
they come in bright colors (avocado, gold, electric blue, and burgundy), so you’ll always be able to find them.
the parcel tax would have been earmarked entirely for fire services in berkeley.
raising revenues need be neither painful nor unjust.
this week tuesday december 02, 2003 tuesday, dec.
it has been the site of an arson  fire, a haven for prostitution, and the location of numerous altercations over  bad business dealings.
women in black vigil, from noon to 1 p.m. at uc berkeley, bancroft at  telegraph.
one way to achieve proportionate and appropriate taxation on the wealthy is to provide a non-negotiable higher taxation gradient for more valuable personal and corporate property transfers.
u.s. pilots have developed countermeasures, by quickly cutting off their engines to avoid a fatal spin.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/commissions/publicworks friday, nov.
this seems prudent on the smaller hawks’ part.
in the meantime, thanks to a number of large grants, including a $15,000 contribution from the city of berkeley, they’ll operate at full scale until more money comes in—at least through most of the coldest months.
the commission report proposal and other suggested changes to agenda committee procedures are scheduled to be discussed by the agenda committee again dec. 1.
killing the messenger isn’t going to make the crisis go away.
“i don’t see them lining up.”
• hang your garden tools on pretty rubber straps that screw into the wall.
however, taxation must increase on  the individual and corporate rich.
if we follow through on this line of thought, i suggest we’re in for a disaster.
solar electricity for your home now you can produce your own electricity and “sell” the excess back to pg&e, running your meter backwards!
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu music and dance the people with lz phoenix, sol americano and dr. masseuse at 9 p.m. at ashkenez.
it’s nice that  yoshi’s is continuing to work with jazz in flight on their monday night  series; this writer hopes they will reconsider their jitters when it comes to  booking local artists at the venue.
i needed to know about goth clubs, massage parlors,  obscure british rock bands, new slang terms.
the estimated $200 million project would be  financed in conjunction with a private developer and could be completed as soon  as 2007.
was there a “spinning contest” going on at 73rd and bancroft  on saturday night?
one of the continuing joys of living in berkeley is that the  world has always come to us.
www.epicarts.org brian melvin at 8:30 p.m. at downtown.
alec boga, founded the annual bpd turkey ride in 1994—a three-day, 216-mile september journey to south lake tahoe that raises money to feed berkeley families on thanksgiving and christmas.
www.beckettsirishpub.com grand unified theory, forget the jonses, the apples, the silence, static thought at 8 p.m. at 924 gilman st. cost is $5.
to examine this and other issues, city council requested a plan update report this past summer.
i do stand by my remark that it takes guts to put the animal shelter with  it’s affordable ‘well-pet’ clinic where it should go—at  sixth and gilman, and hope that the city will be able to craft a deal with busd  to facilitate the bus yard moving elsewhere and for the animal shelter to be  built there.
the i-house exhibit is a touching reminder of what has been accomplished in 75 years, against all odds, by dedicated internationalists determined to rise above the periodic eruptions of national strife.
decorate the lorax way you can help conserve nature’s tallest plants  by re-using and recycling their products.
by matthew artz tuesday december 02, 2003 berkeley voters will get to weigh in on a proposed tax hike this march  after all.
www.blakesontelegraph.com jp orbit at the 1923 teahouse at 8 p.m. suggested donation of $7-$15, no  one turned away for lack of funds.
oakland opera theater, “four saints in three acts,” an opera by  virgil thomson and gertrude stein, at 8 p.m., at oakland metro, 201 broadway,  at 2nd st. tickets are $15-$25 and are available from www.oaklandopera.org film yasujiro ozu: “an inn at tokyo” at 7:30 p.m. and “the  only son” at 9:10 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
red: “because in the fall you need fall color.”
runs through dec. 21.
“the witness,” a one-woman play which follows the journey of a  young woman onto the streets, followed by a discussion of faithful fools  ministry, at 2 p.m. at berkeley fellowship, 1924 cedar at bonita.
the ame church has about two million members today.
i don’t think that berkeley currently has much of a downtown.
this is not to say i’m against some fall color on berkeley’s
until sept. 1, i hadn’t been back on a college campus in 32 years.
cost is $10 ec members, $15 others, no one turned away.
if the supervisors accept the plan, the center must still cut another $33  million to eliminate its deficit.
fee and  registration required.
as are elms, sycamores, and other trees of their ilk, with leaves  that turn, at best, a feeble blotchy yellow or tan as fall approaches.
tickets are  adults $15 in advance, $18 at the door, students $7 in advance, $10 at door.
for further information and to register, call karen ray at  848-7800.
look at the  governator.
come out here on the weekend, and you can see them pulling drivers from the fruitvale district to the san leandro border.
report back from occupied palestine with john ross at 7 p.m. at fellowship  hall, cedar and bonita.
“you’d think people would go online and trash the sites, but  they don’t.
there are two separate facilities, one for single women and children, the other co-ed.
a day after the mayor said he was unwilling to consider renewing the  parcel tax sometime down the road after march of next year, he left the door  open again.
a december 13 class at the nursery will teach you how to choose  the right tree for your needs, how to decorate its container, and how to keep  your tree in good health.
“it’s just that i was under the impression that questioning one’s gender and sexuality were a prerequisite to the curriculum.
men’s and women’s sizes.
but in march 2002 the same technique was used again effectively by al qaeda and taliban remnants in afghanistan.
in francis’ opinion, the quest for denser housing drives the planning department—and that’s not what’s best for the neighborhood, she said.
handel’s “messiah” sing at 2:30 p.m., first church of  christ, scientist, 2619 dwight way.
he sent child protective services to remove the children for a few weeks, and came back around to check up after they returned.
from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. benefits healthgap and act up east bay.
the alameda county taxpayers association endorsed the tax hike after learning it will sunset in 2019.
www.beckettsirishpub.com vince wallace jazz machine at 9 p.m. at jupiter.
i got very comfortable with the machine.”
budgeted at $45,000, the program provides between five and six families with a  room every night at a cost of about $60 per room.
they’ve spent eight years dinking around with the thing.”
“voices from the edge” and “the favela goes to the world social forum” and discussion with brazilian filmmakers daniela broitman and fernando salis, at 7:30 p.m. at la peña cultural center.
the chairperson of berkeley’s commission on disabilities joyfully hailed berkeley city council’s recent decision to authorize five wheelchair-accessible taxis in the city, even though the number was halved from the originally requested 10.
while it has been our experience  that all the agencies—department of health, code enforcement,  neighborhood services and the zab— have been sympathetic and kind, our  problem is still across the street and out patience has worn thin.
3-lb. box, $6.99; 12-lb. sack, $14.99.
this has become a ghastly familiar story out here in this end of oakland.
executive director  marty lynch said with fewer insured residents and less public money to pay for  them, lifelong has had to turn back 20-30 patients per week at its four  clinics.
ases have been without a contract since oct. 1 and negotiations conducted by a state mediator broke down two weeks ago over university demands that the union pledge not to engage in future sympathy strikes.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu “the call to hawaii: a wellness vacation guidebook” with betsy  and laura crites, co-authors, at 7:30 p.m. at easy going bookstore, 1385  shattuck ave at rose.
nicole mcrory at 9:30 p.m. at beckett’s irish pub, 2271 shattuck ave.
arriving in berkeley five years ago, he found a grand old house on ashby  avenue that only later he discovered had once been home to the city’s  notorious red family commune—the hotbed of revolution presided over by  chicago 7 radical and later democratic state legislator tom hayden.
a quick google search reveals that publications all around the world have  had experience with newsmakers blaming the press for reporting bad news.
at 6 p.m. at twist restaurant, 495 10th st. oakland.
let’s hear a plan to better clean up and protect the creek’s exposed portion—not to endanger its safe underground stretch.
organic alfalfa meal: high in nitrogen, but with a fresh, sweet smell.
some state universities have opted to voluntarily place their hotels on  the tax rolls.
www.ashkenaz.com blues holiday concert with rev. rabia, bay area blues- woman, at 8 p.m. at the berkeley public library’s reading room, 2090 kittredge.
he pointed out projects like acton court were ultimately decided by city council, and he said the state housing density bonus mandate—a one-size-fits-all law—makes his department’s job more difficult.
but while that decision was no surprise—coming, as it did, a day after mayor tom bates announced plans to withdraw support for his own proposal—bates unexpectedly took the opportunity to accuse the berkeley firefighters local of reneging on an earlier indication that they were supporting the parcel tax.
the san pablo park neighborhood has been working for over two years with the city agencies to remedy this intolerable situation.
me: “berkeley should have more street trees.”
telegraph ave.; sweet basil thai restaurant, 1736 solano ave.
meet at the strawberry creek lodge, 1320 addison at 10 a.m.
sex has some effect on prey  size, though.
www.operationdignity.
unitarian universalist church of berkeley, 1 lawson road, kensington.
it would be a natural feature long covered by a busy street.
lupke was struck by a car while riding his motorized wheelchair in the street along ashby avenue, trying to maneuver around an uneven stretch of sidewalk.
it is an issue of safety, as well.”
santa cruz offers the worst case scenario, where ucsc signed a long-term lease on a holiday inn hotel.
maio said she didn’t see any reason why the agenda committee would hold over a commission report for more than a week.
a fair number of  evergreen trees thrive in berkeley and bloom in the late winter or early  spring, which can come as early as february in some years.
three weeks after this devastating attack, the united  states pulled out of somalia, an event osama bin laden has cited as proof that  america can be defeated.
from madagascar, this  wonderfully bizarre plant grows in a fanlike shape with a finely textured,  silvery-green, almost iridescent surface, topped with a leafy green fringe.
these three  species constituted 95 percent of the hawks’ targets.
cost is $5-$10 in  advance, $12 at the door.
the uaw has filed numerous unfair labor practice charges against the university, which they insist gives them the right to strike despite neither side declaring an impasse.
we’ll use this program to iron out the problems in the system.
restaurant robbed two men robbed the popeye’s restaurant on the 1700 block of san  pablo avenue saturday night.
i have two young kids, and i’d hate to see us lose half our planet before they’re in their twenties.
“so we’re going to do that, and we’ll call them on it.
halle is a homeboy who’s done good.
www.nyingmainstitute.com monday, dec.
it should  be a place where potential adopters can easily get to the berkeley shelter to  adopt dogs and/or cats.
donations suggested to benefit fools street ministry.
and uc’s exemption from local zoning would deny the public any control over the parcel’s future development.
the longer the lease and the more valuable the property improvements, the  closer the possesory tax would approach the standard property tax, smith  said.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu “to be or not to be,” 1942 classic with jack benny at 2 p.m. at the jewish community center, 1414 walnut st. $2.
soapmaking do you know where soap comes from?
wheelchair accessible.
an aide to berkeley mayor tom bates says that a proposal to funnel all city commission reports through the city council agenda committee is not as far-reaching as rumor appears to have it, and probably won’t be put into place “if it’s going to be controversial.”
suggested donation $3-$5, this is a fund-raiser to bring the church lighting up to code.
these 27 state domestic partnership rights pale in comparison to the more than 1,000 state and federal rights granted legally married couples.
us/commissions/firesafety housing advisory commission meets thurs., dec. 4 at 7:30 p.m., at the south berkeley senior center.
let us rejoice and be glad  in it,” the choir sang as churchgoers stood to their feet and clapped  their hands.
asked by councilmember betty olds if “companies are clamoring for  this,” a. robin orden, a city senior management analyst, told council  that staff “recently held a meeting with local companies, and some of  them showed interest.
www.kitka.org berkeley ballet theater, “the nutcracker,” at 2 p.m. at julia morgan center for the arts.
for an organ soloist, she built an organ out of plant “horse tails”  with a flower called buddha’s fingers reaching inside.
“it’s really been an amazing thing to see the response.”
plus, there’s your basic cut pieces of bulk chocolate (i’m told the coffee market on gilman street is a neighborhood shop with decent bulk prices) and, not to mention, edible chocolate products intended to enhance creative erotic practices (e.g., check good vibrations on san pablo avenue.)
grades must be  submitted by three days after the test, or jan. 5 for professors with more than  50 students in a class.
the compromise was passed after councilmembers were assured that the  replacement pole would only be studied, with no commitment from council to do  anything more until the city’s present budget crisis is over.
a parisienne at the table has been here for five years, thanks to her husband’s high-tech job, but her family hasn’t visited her.
called the berkeley mission, the church began with just five members in a modest building at the corner of grove and russell streets.
the articles on this phenomenon inevitably refer to the greek custom of killing the messenger who brought the news.
bus passes and bart tickets could be dispensed right at the  center, along with a kiosk of clear transit information, resources and popular  bay area destinations.
cost is $15.50  advance, $16.50 at the door.
wendy derosa and guests at the 1923 teahouse at 8 p.m. donation of  $7-$15.644-2204.
u.s. pilots have developed countermeasures,  by quickly cutting off their engines to avoid a fatal spin.
mehta insisted that more than half of uc berkeley’s 2,200 ases honored picket lines in october—though the university estimated that number at fewer than 50 percent.
i told him i agreed with mr. cowan’s assessment that the deal was too complex.
both say they’ve caught pneumonia sleeping on the streets and  welcomed a chance to stay at the shelter, especially because they can bring  their pooch.
just two minutes later, officers (which officers?
the american president is a man who had never left the country until he was elected, and who now travels isolated in military jets wearing soldier suits he hasn’t even earned.
gay marriage is legally consistent with this basic civil tenet, because it recognizes that adult citizens have the autonomy to be able to enter into legal relationships of their choice without state interference or moral obstruction.
officers saw mr. brown’s mustang again at 87th and international  “but again brown took off at speeds exceeding 70 mph (according to the  chronicle, again) and the pursuit was dropped (again according to chp  officials).
if you stay away from city council meetings there may be hope you’ll learn to think again!”
although residents want more small community-oriented business, myers said, it’s difficult to attract them because of inflated lease rates and property values.
stiff-leaved, rosettaed plants.
if you stay away from city  council meetings there may be hope you’ll learn to think again!”
www.freightandsalvage.org sterling highway, the zachary tree, hazel at 9:30 p.m. at blakes on  telegraph.
4 “in conversation with political authors: in search of weapons of mass  deception” panelists include ishmael reed, iris chang, daniel ellsberg  and dori maynard, moderated by normon solomon.
www.lapena.org “walk around middle pond” with aquatic park egret’s
so we’ve had another drunk-driving-police-chase-“sideshow” automobile injury accident out in east oakland.
“yes,”  the congregations answered in unison.
for planning commissioner gene poschman, university avenue represents more than an unfulfilled vision.
she recalled to me her disorientation at early rehearsals, then the pleasure of hearing correspondences emerge between lines, phrases, themes.
so here we are, late in the game, with no game plan.
so the house once famous for psychedelics and revolutionary politics is  hosting another revolution, more sober and less inflammatory perhaps, but no  less challenging for all that.
decorate the lorax way you can help conserve nature’s tallest plants by re-using and recycling their products.
sometimes they waited in ambush until a smaller bird got within close striking range.
nancy ellis patricia kaspar • downtown editors, daily planet: mr. geller’s development vision of downtown berkeley is mostly appropriate and quite achievable (letters, daily planet, nov. 25-27).
council and agenda committee member linda maio agreed.
but st. paul members are quick to make it known that their church is not just about singing, dancing and preaching on sunday mornings.
the prospect of a “more tolerant and peaceful world” seems more remote than ever.
they had earlier  asked that the tower be torn down and replaced with the original 130-foot  pair.
one man punched the victim in  the face sending him to the pavement.
money collected by the department  of motor vehicles from the vlf has been distributed to california cities and  counties, all of which expect to take a huge financial hit from the  governor’s action.
appetizers and beverages  will be served.
also provides another perk certain to attract younger people in  need.
when the plan was adopted in 1996, the planning commission created a  subcommittee to supervise implementation—but when the commission  membership changed, the plan fell by the wayside, fogarty said.
the san  francisco opera put up mother of us all earlier in the season, and the metro  (also known as oakland opera theater) did three sisters
cost is $4 for adults, $3 for children.
is this councilman suggesting we roll back to the days when only white  male landowners have the right to vote?
women of color arts and crafts fair, featuring paintings, clay sculptures, textiles, jewelry, quilts, decorative functional furniture and wearable art.
“follow the star …” an exhibit of over 250 crèches from 70 countries, from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. at st. clement’s episcopal church, 2837 claremont blvd.
and which one of these three  problems, do you think, does the city of oakland consider so dangerous that  upon it must be instituted a continuing crackdown?
reservations are suggested.
we will be installing creek-side plants from native here nursery and the regional parks botanic garden.
creek fans should go see strawberry creek upstream on the uc campus (where it runs above ground for everyone’s enjoyment).
the victim was riding her bike along the 1800 block of channing way at  10:08 p.m. when a youth on a bike chased her down and yanked on her purse,  police said.
(the nearest supplier of authentic angelina’s hot chocolate mix i could find was the café society in napa; 1000 main st., (707)256-3232.)
“just between you and me,” summers wrote,”  shouldn’t the world bank be encouraging more migration of the dirty  industries to the less developed countries?
molded garden totes from germany have a clean, modern design.
fccsb@mindspring.com
long before the squatters moved in, we had been trying to gain the city of berkeley’s interest in the property’s numerous and ongoing problems.
berkeleychamberperform.org “edessa and brass menagerie” at 8:30 p.m. at ashkenaz.
there are no courses dedicated to the  history of the 60s and 70s.
he was  wearing a navy blue windbreaker.
“our job is to provide council with information and choices.”
the science behind genetically engineered plants a lecture with dr. andrew gutierrez, professor of environmental science, policy, and management, graduate theological union, from 7 to 8:30 p.m. at 2400 ridge rd.
but bates aide cisco de vries says that while a commission report proposal was discussed during the nov. 10 agenda committee meeting, they didn’t intend to censor the commissions.
on the related berkeley building heights issue, i believe we need  less-than-10-story structures with periphery and local above-ground parking.
berkeley poetry slam at 8:30 p.m. at the starry plough.
the challenge would be to create a model vision, a pedestrian oasis and retreat for business travelers, tourists and the rest of us.
but now it seems that this could change.
wheelchair  accessible.
it is of course easy in retrospect to challenge the wisdom of having imparted such skills to jihad-waging islamists.
the suspect is described as a black male, 25-30 years old, approximately six feet, 170 pounds with short hair, an unshaven face, a mustache, and dark, possibly decayed, front teeth.
mehta said the strike would last through finals, though ases would return to work for the spring semester in january even without a new deal.
the daily planet received  first drafts of two different commentaries which attempted to set the record  straight, from local activist writers who later withdrew the pieces, again  because they feared political retaliation.
while political activism came from his mother, an understanding of the intrusive nature of the system came from his father, a private investigator.
if the taxi option had been available, their lives could have  been saved.
vigil at 6:30 p.m. followed by peace  walk at 7 p.m. www.geocities.com/vigil4peace/vigil community dances, traditional english and american dances, 8 p.m. every  wednesday, $9. 7 p.m. first sunday, $10.
as required by the california supreme court and the city’s rent  ordinance, rental property owners in berkeley are entitled to a  constitutionally mandated “fair return” from their property  investment.
“this will be a hopefully affordable market rate hotel,” he said.
12” x 18”, $38.50; 8” x 14”, $33.50.
animal shelters are part of our community, they enhance an area, they encourage children to learn about animals.
“i’m not questioning my sexuality,
for merchant jay ifshin, whose ifshin violins music store has been a university avenue fixture for over two decades, the city’s failure to implement the plan is more than a source of frustration.
east oakland—international boulevard, especially—has been something of a police state of late, with chp cars cruising up and down the nighttime streets.
three university unions—the coalition of university employees (cue),  the california nurses association (cna) and the university professional and  technical employees, (upte-cwa)—have called for sympathy strikes,  creating still more logistical problems for the university.
but between now and next november, let’s talk.
11 a.m. to 7 p.m. and sat.
lifelong medical, berkeley’s care provider for uninsured residents,  could also receive increased funds from the tax measure.
frank snapp mortgaging the earth is the name of john halle’s new work for two sopranos and chamber ensemble, being presented tonight
at least two of the u.s. black hawk helicopters that crashed in iraq  recently were brought down by the same sophisticated technique—by taking  out the ship's vulnerable tail rotor with a rocket-propelled grenade (rpg).
asked about the timing of the strike, mehta blamed the university and said the interests of the union’s members had to come first.
lately, however, big namen have acquired a distinct cachet and i’m less discontented with my lengthy appellation.
“it’s hard to deal with them.”
as a real estate industry professional associated with a berkeley-based firm, i can appreciate what apparently motivates mr. koenigshofer’s ad hominin polemical attacks against both the elected rent board’s policies, and the city’s 1980 voter-approved rent stabilization ordinance, which regulates nearly 20,000 rent controlled units citywide.
sometimes they waited  in ambush until a smaller bird got within close striking range.
“staff met with the firefighters a month ago,” the mayor said,  “described what was going on, explained to them what was going on.
oakland opera theater, “four saints in three acts,” an opera by virgil thomson and gertrude stein, at oakland metro, 201 broadway, at 2nd st. tickets are $15-$25 and are available from www.oaklandopera.org film yasujiro ozu: “an inn at tokyo” at 7:30 p.m. and “the only son” at 9:10 p.m. at the pacific film archive.
“it  has been a haven,” she said, adding that st. paul gives people a chance  to worship god through self-expression.
please bring sturdy shoes and water, and gloves, if you have them.
they enjoy the blessings of nature—a climate that is exceptionally congenial to horticultural pursuits—and the blessings of commerce—an uncommon number of first-rate, one-of-a-kind, locally owned gardening supply stores.
i felt that  i had made a giant step forward in my efforts to craft a fictional tale.
scharffen berger chocolate bars come in various sizes and blends and are widely available locally, from the elmwood pharmacy (at russell & college, where i get my fix) to the company’s factory store (914 heinz ave.).
and it wouldn’t be a phony las vegas-like water “feature.”
center street is a transit corridor, a gateway to the uc campus, and an essential pressure-relief valve for a downtown that’s already too congested.
it  might help if i were to get my nose pierced and dyed my hair blue.
hang one or more gorgeous, multicolored globes on your christmas tree before setting them outside for the birds.
that’s the way nature made berkeley.
learn how to make all natural soap from olive, coconut, and palm oils.
part of the problem is interpretation of state law that  requires cities to have enough affordable housing, she said.
out in front of the speculative curve, not only do we have the oakland box theater at 20th and telegraph (previously cited in this column), and the oakland metro at the base of broadway.
www.blakesontelegraph.com jp orbit at the 1923 teahouse at 8 p.m. donation of $7-$15.
in operation anaconda of that month, rpgs, by hitting the tail rotors, incapacitated several u.s. air force apache helicopters.
parking is free and is handicapped  accessible.
culver said santa cruz won a ruling from the santa cruz county assessor to  keep the former holiday inn hotel on the tax rolls despite the ucsc  takeover.
www.ci.berkeley.ca.us/commissions/publicworks community environmental advisory commission meets fri., dec. 5, at 7 p.m.,  at 2118 milvia st. nabil al-hadithy, 981-7461.
oakland opera theater, “four saints in three acts,” at 2 and 7  p.m.
(“red tape snares animal shelter,” daily planet,  nov. 25-27).
he thinks “maybe the hotel can get by with minimal parking.”
tickets  are $15-$25.
piñata and snacks follow performance.
free energy bill payment assistance the city of berkeley has money to help low-income households pay their gas and electric bills.
i know details are yet to be worked out, but i hope that in berkeley, we can work together to create a vision to be emulated elsewhere; a cutting-edge environment for hotel and convention-goers.
as for what they were after, the terre haute cooper’s hawks  concentrated on starlings, mourning doves, and feral pigeons.
www.bampfa.berkeley.edu readings and lectures lunch poems at 12:10 p.m. in the morrison library in doe library, uc campus, former u.s. poet laureate, robert hass.
perhaps mr. artz should try  paying property taxes on a limited income before he makes any more snide  remarks about berkeley voters.
www.epicarts.org jucifer, bottles and skulls, race bannon at 9:30 p.m. at the starry plough.
“you don’t need any of those  things, but your sanity?
now i’m busy trying to figure out what classes i’ll take next  semester.
the cooper in question was a 19th century  naturalist, co-founder of the new york lyceum of natural history.
the central conflict is between the planning department’s belief in  smart growth and neighbors’ opposition to denser housing, poschman said.
“i found in the past, when the university avenue plan goes counter  to growth orientation, there’s no incentive on the part of staff to cause  things for less growth,” he said.
us/commissions/women fire safety commission meets wed., dec. 3, at 7:30 p.m. at the emergency  operations center, 997 cedar st. david orth, 981-5502.
i came to this viewpoint gradually after multiple conversations along  these lines.
we think of hawks as creatures of the wild, but some have adapted handily to city life.
it sounds like this is what’s going on with the hawks that  use my driveway.
those  things might begin to resonate in the next few months, and people could decide  they want their civil rights back, that they’re not willing to give them  up to become the aggressors of the planet.”
meetings once a month.
we berkeleyans who enjoy the rewards of living in an international  community should continue to do as much as we can to prevent our government  from working against these goals.
jackie hetman will show slides of  northern sweden and lapland at 11 a.m.
www.freightandsalvage.org small brown bike, the orange band, scissorhands at 5 p.m. at 924 gilman st.  cost is $5.
jill posener chair, council sub committee on the new animal shelter not out of sight editors, daily planet: i am puzzled by the claim that an animal shelter on university and third  street would be “out of sight, out of mind,” and that this  “hidden location” would mean fewer volunteers and less connection  to the community.
she was thrilled by the wide open spaces there, quite different from europe, and resolved to come back sometime and make her home here.
pots, $20-$160; phormiums, 1 gallon $12.95; 5 gallon, $34.95.
please call terry, 849-4134 or email  bloomburgh@sbcglobal.net to sign up.
“arcadia,” by tom stoppard, performed by maybeck high school, at 7 p.m. at oakland box theater, 1928 telegraph ave.
www.ashkenaz.com pris, go ahead perform indy rock and rock at 9:30 p.m. at blakes on  telegraph.
great selection of succulents and agaves.
plant families meet and learn to recognize common plant families, with  naturalist and gardener terri compost.
www.lapena.org san francisco saxophone quartet performs works of mozart, brubeck and others at 4:30 p.m. at the jazzschool.
a self-guided tour presents opportunities to meet the artists and see working craft studios.
in davis, a similar development is in the planning stages, while in san diego a new hotel and convention center will open next year and in santa cruz the university assumed control of a holiday inn two years ago.
their nests are easy to spot in winter, until the trees leaf out and give the hawks some privacy while they incubate their eggs and rear their young.
and which one of these three problems, do you think, does the city of oakland consider so dangerous that upon it must be instituted a continuing crackdown?
beyond the clogged gutters and endless raking that result, the trees are barren during the winter.
mark rhoades, 981-7410.
westbrae has gazing balls in silver (the most popular color because it provides the best reflection), gold, green, red, teal and puprle.
call for location 594-4000, ext.
choose from a wide assortment of buddhas and kwan yis (the female form of the buddha of compassion), available in architectural resin, cement or laval rock, in varied colors.
1 exhibition openings “bay area blues: blues musicians on site” a digital photography  display at berkeley public library opens today and runs through the month of  december.
the  articles on this phenomenon inevitably refer to the greek custom of killing the  messenger who brought the news.
arnold schwarzenegger took over sixth largest economy in the world in a campaign that lasted just six weeks.
roth and lima set out to document what kind of prey cooper’s hawks hunted in an urban setting, and how they went about it.
“they’re saying, ‘oh, yeah, we should implement this thing.’
benefits the building education center and global exchange cuba  program.
to traditionalist falconers, these three species would be true hawks (as opposed to falcons, buzzards, harriers).
is it something they’re putting  in the water?
as we’re all soon to be awash  in messiahs and requiems, this is as musically provocative a combination as  you’re likely to find for the duration of the holidays.
doris floyd,  tabor’s daughter and a lifelong member of st. paul, said they are proud  of their church mostly because of what it has meant to the berkeley  community.
“that woke me up about the lack of privacy we all have,” he says.
to prepare for the planned strike, uc berkeley provost paul gray asked professors to hold review sessions that striking gsis would have conducted and to collect course grade information before the work stoppage begins.
www.beckettsirishpub.com yaphet kotto, erase eratta, the yellow press, burmese, bottled o.g. at 8 p.m. at 924 gilman st. cost is $5.
• sweeten the season with sasanqua camellias: fragrant,  winter-blooming, pink, white, or rose-colored flowers.
granma tabor said sometimes she wishes the choir would sing more  traditional hymns like the ones she grew up singing.
2 downtown development planning commission subcommittee on the proposed uc hotel/conference center meets from 2 to 4 p.m. in the sitka spruce room, 2120 milvia st. 981-7484.
suggested  donation of $7-$15, no one turned away for lack of funds.
“my body felt like it was a cushion and my aches felt they was pins,” she said.
seckels and bartletts, about $30; 6-in-1 espaliers, $50.
even with the sales tax revenues, kagen said, he probably couldn’t salvage services already on the chopping block, though the funds could help sustain highland’s emergency room and trauma center.
and i’m sure it was during the hours i filled turning the pages of à la recherche du temps perdu that i became acutely aware of the malevolent intentions of gift-givers.
what they envisioned was a place where people could safely stroll  sidewalks and shop in attractive, prosperous stores.
note how much trash the creek suffers even in this sheltered environment.
then take a walk to see wintering birds and dormant ladybeetles, from 4 to 5:30 p.m. at tilden nature area, in tilden park.
the only fertilizer you’d want to find under your christmas tree.
there are  about 1,600 of them, and some of them are great.
tickets are $20.00 in advance, $25.00 at the door.
• hoes with nice balance, very sharp blades, oak handles 1-5 feet  long, are made by small companies in japan.
• top-size (17 cm.) paperwhites and accessories.
i don’t think anyone [on the agenda committee] has any plans—i certainly don’t—to hold any reports back from the council.
these are great on some streets and as accents, but they and their gaudy  cousins shouldn’t be everywhere.
www.ci.ber keley.ca.us/commissions/youth zoning adjustments board meets mon., dec. 1, at 7 p.m., in city council  chambers.
one proposed site is tune-up masters, an auto maintenance and repair shop at 1698 university ave.
i agree with tom bates that even the local progressive media often emphasize the wrong issues.
it is now over 10 years since the first u.s. black hawks were downed by  hits on the tail rotor with rpgs.
composers on the rest of this program are alejandro escuer, arthur krieger, kevin beavers, paul barsom, with berkeley opera’s own jonathan khuner conducting.
berkeleypoetryexpress@yahoo.com music and dance steve gannon band and mz.
maybe a little dangerous, too.
but the police department still hasn’t  answered the question planners asked of it: what does crime along the corridor  look like and how does it compare to previous years?
www.starryploughpub.com sunday, dec.
with a weekend’s rest behind him he’s using all but six percent of his brain cells.
the class is taught by rosie linsky, who at age 72, has  practiced yoga for over 40 years.
leyden says the center also functions as an intermediary to help their clients get back on their feet during one of the hardest parts of the year.
the victim was riding her bike along the 1800 block of channing way at 10:08 p.m. when a youth on a bike chased her down and yanked on her purse, police said.
while a precedent has been set for cities to collect occupancy tax revenue from university-owned hotels, property taxes usually remain out of reach.
the lot historically has been classified as a used car lot; however the use permits have expired long ago, there are no other existing permits, and property taxes are in arrears.
as it is, both parties put corporate interests above human rights.
mayor jerry brown may be seen from time to time, wafting  in from his new digs up the street where sears once was.
it’s a distinction that is a source of pride to many of its members.
it has to be where the human  community is, so people will have a daily dose of dog or cat, because it is so  soothing.
of the larger trees that once flourished in berkeley’s natural landscape only buckeyes entirely drop their leaves, and that usually happens in the dry late summer, well before conventional autumn weather arrives.
she was thrilled by  the wide open spaces there, quite different from europe, and resolved to come  back sometime and make her home here.
filled with a variety of succulents that will spill over the edge, they make a simple but dramatic planting.
www.ashkenaz.com the cottars, youthful celtic roots, at 8 p.m. at freight and salvage.