he founded thesunstove organization and spent much of his retirement years promoting solar cooking, particularly in south africa.
additional funds are needed.
participants who use their  solar panel cooker at least 70 percent of sunny days during a 90-day period  will be eligible to buy a gso at a subsidized rate.
at its exciting spring meeting, solar cookers internationals dynamic, diverse board of directors set six program goals for the year 2010, each embracing major new initiatives.
on arrival in the early morning our group first went to the village elders to be introduced and then moved to the place where the participants were waiting.
sri lanka the emace foundation continues its efforts to spread solar cooking  in sri lanka, particularly war-torn northern and eastern regions.
the  project will involve cooperation with community-based mexican ngos.
of the initial people trained, 65  percent continued to use their solar panel cooker one year later on a regular  basis.
the  health effects include acute respiratory infections, eye infections, asthma and  increased risk of tuberculosis and cataracts.
the cookers parabolic mirrors are made of cast iron with a highly reflective aluminum tape comprising the reflective surface.
this pillow is placed on the pot’s lid before cinching  the unit with a drawstring, preventing heat loss through the top of the pot.
their promotional slogan is “cooking in a  piece of cardboard … you have to see it to believe it”.
two hundred cookits for these early courses and demonstrations were  graciously provided by thekozon foundation.
last may i accompanied seven afima members to two villages ― niamana and n'tororo ― in the segou region.
over the years he built several  other solar cookers ― some quite sophisticated ― and displayed them  throughout japan and china in the 1950s.
men said that they could take the cookit and ingredients to the field and in that way their wives would not be obligated to follow them ― often more than six miles ― to bring them their midday meal.
solar cooker review is compiled and edited by the staff of solar  cookers international (sci), with layout graciously provided byimpact publications located in medford, oregon, usa.
next, practical tips on cookit storage and maintenance are shared, followed  by more singing and dancing until the food is cooked and ready to be shown and  tasted.
why is aluminum foil used?
for example, even though our  survey did not ask a specific question about schools, nearly 10 percent of the  respondents volunteered the information that their strategy involves spreading  solar cooking through universities, colleges, secondary schools, primary  schools or training centers.
ms. bailey and ms. simonson learned about solar cooking during their peace  corps service.
since 2001 afima has continued to promote solar cooking throughout mali.
the kozon foundation found two organizations in the netherlands willing to finance demonstrations in the ségou, mopti and kayes regions.
the wonder cushion is made from two large disks of material sewn together in such a way as to create a base circle, on which the pot rests, and a series of pockets like the petals on a daisy.
when the cookers were finished, abe tested several recipes and pasteurized  water in them.
collectively they have trained over 1,700 instructors.
the 250-mile journey was taken by  rented school bus, in which we endured temperatures over 40ºc without air  conditioning.
he found them to be fairly expensive so he decided to make some for himself using salvage materials.
funds will be used to distribute 2,000 hotpot solar cookers in remote rural mexican communities this year.
subsequent workshops are being planned for schools in cotonou.
workshops generally had 10-12 participants lead by a teacher and two assistants.
the cookers are being used in the bosaso region of northeast  somalia.
on arrival in the early morning our group first went to the  village elders to be introduced and then moved to the place where the  participants were waiting.
on and off women arrive with the filled pots, which are put  in the transparent, heat resistant plastic bags and tied closed.
united states of america dr. paul funk, a solar cooking expert and previous solar cookers  international (sci) board member, sends news that after many years of  effort an official standard for testing and reporting solar cooker performance  has been adopted by theamerican society of agricultural engineers.
funds are still being sought for the sikasso, gao and timbuktu regions.
excerpts from a report by devendra ghimire, a beneficiary of the solar cooking projects in bhandar, follow: i received a solar cooker in november 2000.
the amazing thing about the solar oven project is the unprecedented level of community interest and investment, says ms. simonson.
soil or other substrates are placed in the tubes through an upper hatch during the early morning and recovered through the lower hatch 24 hours later.
solar cookers and the hiv/aids pandemic
we proceed to explain  how the cookit works and why the black pot is heated up by the energy of the  sun.
solar cooks that are ill may  experience some or all of the following: fewer respiratory and water-related infections relief from the physical burdens of gathering fuel wood reduced transmission of hiv from mother to child through the use of solar  pasteurization.
smoke is also linked to low-birth  weight and infant mortality.
it is a great help, ms. araujo says of the solar cooker.
twenty parabolic solar cookers ― designed  and provided bydominic michaelis of solar energy ltd.
two other priorities are 1) to provide technical assistance in several selected countries to governments or other major institutions wanting to promote solar cooking, and 2) to select one or more additional countries for multi-year projects over the next decade.
… it can boil up to 40 liters of water during solar day.
solar cookers can be left unattended, so that they are  user-friendly for the sick as well as those caring for them.
japan saveur magazine recently published a 1955 photo showing mr. seizo goto of tokyo demonstrating his parabolic solar cooker on top of the 72-story rca building in new york city, where he successfully cooked rice despite cool air temperatures of -6ºc.
amir mahdi komarizadeh, a graduate student at azad university in iran, has designed, built and tested a concentrating-type solar cooker called vafa.
salifu mahama in ghana, for example, reports teaching 1,000 students  how to make solar box cookers using packing cases and cardboard.
tracking of the sun is simple due  to rotational capabilities around its vertical axis.
china horn relief, a local somali ngo, recently imported several solar cookers from china with the assistance of a small grant frommrs.
the sunstove®, still selling today, is the result of many hours of drawing, dozens of trial models and eventual capital input from dick.
through the programme energie solaire (pes) ― a project of the free  methodists ― over 5,000 haitians have learned to solar cook.
an inexpensive solar collector, developed in brazil, has been used by growers and nurseries for the past decade to disinfest soil.
sunstove founder passes away richard dick wareham passed away this past january at his home in brookfield, wisconsin (usa).
contact: amir mahdi komarizadeh, no. 3, 24 alley, bimeh 3 st., ekbatan minisity, azadi sq., tehran, iran.
workshops were recently held in the vavuniya district and orders for 50  solar box cookers were filled.
sci’s top priority for 2010 is independent spread of solar cooking  beyond nyakach― its “sunny solutions” project community in  western kenya ― to all suitable parts of kenya.
the photo originally ran on the front page of the new york herald tribune, and the event was reported on television and radio.
she then translated construction guidelines  and cooking tips into the local language, sesotho.
the 25  participants learned how to build and use solar box cookers and panel cookers ( solar cookers international’s cookits).
it is an arid region with a lot of sunshine and limited fuel wood resources so solar cooking has obvious attractions.
send contributions to  solar cookers international, 1919 21st
in addition to saving food, money and time, solar cookers offer significant  health benefits via 1) reduced exposure to indoor air pollution from smoky  cooking fires, 2) improved nutrition by eating slow-cooked foods, 3) fewer  injuries associated with fuel wood collection and working around open fires,  and 4) solar water pasteurization.
for the past three years a group of professional women ― the association of women engineers(afima) ― have worked to spread solar cooker use throughout mali.
li hsiao-li of beijing.
for safety  reasons the panels are designed to provide a focal area of 225 square  centimeters instead of a focal point.
some months ago the solar cooker cooked for 28 persons.
tororo workshop participants insert a food-filled pot into a cookit afima follows a fixed program during these demonstrations in which they include as many of the spectators as possible.
santa fe 1159 3f, buenos aires 1059, argentina.
(heated-water can be kept warm in a heat-retention cooker.)
ulog is best known for its sturdy box cookers that are used in many countries, but ulog also promotes parabolic cookers and the scheffler solar kitchens.
ms. bailey and ms. simonson learned about solar cooking during their peace corps service.
workshops began with an explanation of basic solar cooking principles and cooking tips.
contact: oliver walton, solar project coordinator, emace, 1/72  sri rahula mawatha, katubedda, moratuwa 10400, sri lanka.
first, ingredients are prepared and put in the pots.
creole chicken cooked to perfection in a gso a similar, smaller project in 2000 provided gsos at a subsidized cost of us $50 each.
i have to tolerate a lot of smokes coming inside my house when someone cooks food for us and make animal seeds.
these groups jointly have produced and distributed 6,500 cookers in southern zimbabwe in a little over six years.
these are mostly cardboard  solar panel cookers made by and for the new solar cooks themselves.
the women in these villages all cook over wood fires.
e-mail:raquel@cnpma.embrapa.br.
solar cookers: a tool for reaching un millennium development goals by pascale dennery, sci program manager the united nations millennium development goals, adopted by all 191 united nations member states, are a roadmap towards the next decade of human development on a global scale.
through the programme energie solaire (pes) ― a project of the free methodists ― over 5,000 haitians have learned to solar cook.
e-mail:nb_rorisang@yahoo.com.
architects, builders offered built-in solar cooker option the solar wall oven (swo) has been solar cooker pioneer barbara kerr s pet project for nearly two decades.
instead, inside the outer pot it is more like an oven and the heat is more evenly distributed.
the harsh realities of fuel wood scarcity have a disproportionate impact on  women and undermine their ability to generate income through agriculture or  small businesses.
the cookers are being used in the bosaso region of northeast somalia.
an insulated, circular pillow  must also be sewn.
goal: improve maternal health smoke from cooking fires is increasingly recognized as a major health threat, particularly for women and young girls in developing countries.
contact: kerr-cole sustainable living center, p.o. box 576, taylor, arizona 85939, usa.
a group then takes about 30 cookits to a sunny place  nearby, unfolds them and learns to set them up, and finds stones to stabilize  them in the wind.
it also makes easy to farmers they can consume more of their time for farming by cooking their food in the solar cooker easily.
la trame plans to release versions of the film subtitled in english, spanish and german, and dubbed in bambara, dioula and mooré.
sci board looks toward 2010 by bev blum, sci executive director
― a popular, high-quality solar cooker that has stood the test of time.
the cookers come with reflective areas ranging from 1.5 to 2.5 square meters.
in an obituary, his colleague margaret bennett wrote: as a businessman with investments in [south africa], dick became aware of our environmental and social problems, especially those worsened by energy and water shortage.
our often-copied and translated educational resources support all of the  above initiatives and need expanding in scope and accessibility.
in this area the best way to popularize the cookit is to use it to produce  warm water.
they have to: obtain at least 25% more food for the ill family member whose nutritional  requirements increase with time constantly keep the patient clean to prevent infection of skin sores have money for medicine to control diarrhea, pain, respiratory infections  and other ailments once an adult dies from the disease, the remaining adults and children  struggle to survive day to day.
although her neighborhood is dense with houses, ms. araujos patio has a good northern exposure.
since the cookits will be sold they must look as much as possible like cookits produced in a factory.
the international directory makes it easy for people working in the same part of the world to find others who share an interest in and experience with solar cooking.
solar cooker use at home or work allows women to fulfill their responsibility as the main provider of food and fuel for daily meals.
from time to time we cover related topics such as womens issues, wood shortages, health, nutrition, air pollution, climatic changes, and the environment.
some months ago the solar cooker cooked for 28 persons.”
for more information about the cookers, contact: mr. zhang zang, sangli solar, sheng zhou road # 8, yan du industrial zone,
during their last six months as peace corps volunteers, ms. bailey and ms.  simonson taught over 100 people how to make and use solar cookers.
abe mcbride, a student in greenville, tennessee (usa), researched solar cookers for a science fair project.
solar cooker review is sent to those who contribute money or news about solar cooking projects.
thanks to virginie mitchem, task force coordinator of solar  cookers international’s
additional stability is gained by allowing wind to pass between the four panels.
this tape has  proved to be durable, yet repairable if necessary.
special thanks first- and second-graders from edgerton school in kalispell, montana  (usa), earned a dime for each fact they learned during a unit about african  cultures.
recent solar cooking graduates and their hand-made solar box cookers at liphofung
street #101, sacramento, california 95811, usa; or faxed: +1 (916) 455-4498.
(the head of horn relief  won the goldman environmental prize in 2001 for her work in environmental  conservation, in particular her efforts to control the charcoal trade in  northeastern somalia that is decimating the little remaining tree cover in the  country to supply an export market to the middle east.)
street  #101, sacramento, california 95811, usa; or faxed: +1 (916) 455-4498.
the project will involve cooperation with community-based mexican ngos.
it is an arid region with a lot of sunshine and limited fuel wood  resources so solar cooking has obvious attractions.
by: pascale dennery, sci program manager
at the end, two cookits are given to representatives from each village so the women can test them and further explore solar cooking.
it is found that it saves from rs. 1350 to rs.
this will reduce the final cost by more than 50 percent.
lesotho is a high-altitude country with environmental degradation and  cooking fuel shortages.
solar cooker use at home or work allows women to fulfill  their responsibility as the main provider of food and fuel for daily meals.
contact: amir mahdi komarizadeh, no. 3, 24 alley, bimeh 3 st., ekbatan  minisity, azadi sq., tehran, iran.
(the hotpot is a  panel-style solar cooker similar tosolar cookers international’s  cookit, but including a custom bowl-shaped cooking pot encased in a glass bowl  and lid.)
research on larger cookits is being conducted.
dan kammen (usa/kenya/indonesia, 500 cookers) women for peace (south africa, 500 cookers)
next, practical tips on cookit storage and maintenance are shared, followed by more singing and dancing until the food is cooked and ready to be shown and tasted.
some women could not believe that there was no fire under the cardboard.
the suggested subscription price is us $10/year.
the chinese cookers cost approximately us $100 each including sea transport  charges from china.
the fact that people paid to  attend these workshops where they built their own oven and only tea was served  is a testament to their level of interest in this project.”
the sunstove organization, based in south africa, says it has sold  12,000 of its sunstove® box cookers.
recent solar cooking “graduates” and their hand-made solar box  cookers at liphofung
architects, builders offered built-in solar cooker option the solar wall oven (swo) has been solar cooker pioneer barbara kerr ’s pet project for nearly two decades.
this tape has proved to be durable, yet repairable if necessary.
afima invited me in may 2001 to introduce the cookit (solar cookers internationals panel-style solar cooker) and its fabrication to their members.
participants build their own  panel-type solar cooker (modeled aftersolar cookers international’s  cookit) and solar cook lunch each day.
this design allows for maximum temperatures of about 250ºc. the advantages of his semi-parabolic design include lower material cost compared to full parabolic design, easy access to the cooking pot, and protection of mirrored surfaces from possible food spillage.
contact: hosana nyirenda, c/o e-mail: ash747mw@yahoo.com.
in areas of acute shortages, this task interferes with school attendance and  eats up study time.
a current peace corps volunteer has taught her women’s  handicraft group how to solar cook and now the women use the ovens to cook  their meals at work and at home.
a tip from the solare-bruecke web site ( http://solare-bruecke.org): you can bake with a parabolic cooker by placing your baking pan inside a larger, covered pot with space all around the baking pan.
(food and process engineering fall under the realm of this organization.)
he founded thesunstove organization and spent much of his retirement years promoting solar cooking,  particularly in south africa.
tests are now being  conducted as to the usefulness of parabolic solar cookers in that area.
project coordinator ed carswell took the opportunity to demonstrate how heated water and a  water pasteurization indicator (wapi) work in conjunction to pasteurize  drinking water.
quality cardboard is not readily available in mali and must be ordered from senegal, adding to the price of the final product.
funds will be used to distribute 2,000 “hotpot”  solar cookers in remote rural mexican communities this year.
tel:  00229444619, e-mail:vinfish@hotmail.com.
third  world conference on solar cooking sponsored by avinashilingam university and  sci.
it developed a program to demonstrate the cookit in the nine administrative regions of mali.
solar cooking is clean and smoke-free, and can benefit the health of all family members.
two other priorities are 1) to provide technical assistance in several  selected countries to governments or other major institutions wanting to  promote solar cooking, and 2) to select one or more additional countries for  multi-year projects over the next decade.
the standards are available on scis solar cooking archive: www.solarcooking.org/asae_test_std.pdf.
sunstove founder passes away richard “dick” wareham passed away this past january at  his home in brookfield, wisconsin (usa).
gordon magney ― formerly of serve, a relief organization that spread solar cookers in pakistan and afghanistan ― is leading a pilot partnership project implemented byinternational foundation of hope andglobal hope network in istalif village, a suburb of kabul.
ms. kerr’s swo as seen from inside her kitchen … and outside her  home the kerr-cole sustainable living center has developed do-it-yourself  guidelines for architects, builders and remodelers to incorporate swos into  their own designs.
children can attend school more regularly or take the time to study as they spend less time helping with collecting fuel wood or tending a cooking fire.
mr. mohau continues to lead workshops in  surrounding communities, and display and demonstrate several types of solar  cookers at liphofung.
fifty-four of the respondents report that they sell solar cookers, in many cases at subsidized prices.
a favorite project of theirs was solar cooking.
initial results are  favorable.
leading these efforts has been klaus schulte, a rotarian from sweden.
rotarian wilfred pimentel reports that 20,000 solar cookers have been produced as a result of his efforts to teach solar cooking through partnerships among rotary organizations, frequently supported by girl guide solar cooking instructors.
tel: 209-478-7925, e-mail: mahnazsaremi@yahoo.com.
they experimented with the cookit and a  homemade solar box cooker, testing many local foods and making modifications to  optimize efficiency.
the seyhan rotary club in southeastern turkey reports nearly 2,000  solar panel cookers produced and distributed — over 800 through training  workshops and 1,000 supplied in an earthquake disaster relief effort in turkey.
in mid-2003, sci again began taking the pulse of the solar cooking movement by surveying 4,000 international readers of the solar cooker review and some selected promoters based in the united states.
funds are still being sought for the sikasso, gao and timbuktu  regions.
yan cheng  city, 224005 jiang su province, china.
he built three types of solar cookers ― a solar box cooker, a panel-type cooker, and a concentrating cooker ― using tools his grandfather gave him.
for both demonstrations women from 10 to 12 neighboring villages were  also present.
ms. araujo is married, with one adult child, but she is also raising her three teenage nephews.
goal: combat hiv/aids, malaria and other diseases acute and chronic illnesses are related to many aspect of family  social-economic status.
tel: +86 515-8466966 x 8008, fax: +86 515-8466877, e-mail:sangli@pub.yc.jsinfo.net, web: www.chinasangli.com/2oven.htm .
for more information visit la trame’s web site: www.la-trame.org.
92 percent of the people who obtained the gsos continued using them regularly after the first 12 months.
the pilot phase is expected to last  one year, with a budget of us $27,000.
this will  reduce the final cost by more than 50 percent.
collectively they have trained over 1,700  instructors.
… it is very easy for us to make tea and cook food in  the solar heater together even when i am studying books in a day.
solar cookers benefit the bhandar economy: here, a solar cooker is used to melt honey for saleable skin ointment contact: klaus schulte, stenbyvägen 12, 15021 mölnbo, sweden.
survey results have thus far helped us to update nearly 300 listings in the directory with improved contact information and expanded notes on solar cooking activities.
solar cooking is clean and smoke-free, and can  benefit the health of all family members.
the fact that people paid to attend these workshops where they built their own oven and only tea was served is a testament to their level of interest in this project.
some leading promoters gordon magney, now based in kabul, afghanistan, reports 21,000 solar  box cookers produced in a long career involving service to afghani communities  both in refugee camps in pakistan and in afghanistan itself.
we do not sell, rent or trade names of our donors.
it also serves to introduce this  cooking method to decision makers in government agencies and ngos.
solar cookers allow children to spend more time in class.
in the november 2003 solar cooker review we erroneously stated that manuel collares pereira lives in spain.
rotarian wilfred pimentel reports that 20,000 solar cookers have  been produced as a result of his efforts to teach solar cooking through  partnerships among rotary organizations, frequently supported by girl guide  solar cooking instructors.
sonnenenergie fur west afrika (germany/west africa, 400 cookers) emace (sri lanka, 320 cookers) centre neuchateloiscuisine solair (switzerland, 300 cookers) center for rural technology’s outpost in dolpa (nepal, 250  cookers).
sixty-five percent said that they belong to large families and cook for  10 to 30 persons.
javahar maniar, a retired solar box cooker business owner in baroda, india, reports that in his career he produced and sold 10,000 solar cookers.
because the adults eat lunch at work and the children eat lunch at school,  the main meal of the day is the evening meal.
adult caregivers who solar cook can devote more time for income generating activities and care of their ill family member(s), plus save the money they would have otherwise spent on cooking fuel to purchase additional food and other essentials.
ms. araujo works three hours per day in a local school in exchange for the  city’s aid.
this  three-day training program includes sessions on solar cooking principles and  concepts as well as local environmental education.
if your  broker holds your securities, your donation can be transferred to: mr. david hayward ag edwards
you, our supporters and advocates, help shift the paradigm toward sustainable solutions for future generations.
solar cooks that are ill may experience some or all of the following: mothers who are hiv positive can solar pasteurize water for infant formula with freely available solar energy.
solar cookers have the potential to benefit those that are ill and those who care for them.
in 2002 she took a solar cooking course offered by the government of the city of buenos aires as part of poverty alleviation program.
instead, inside the outer pot it is more like an oven and the heat is more  evenly distributed.
the project continues through the commitment of several basotho solar enthusiasts and current peace corps volunteers.
twenty parabolic solar cookers ― designed and provided bydominic michaelis of solar energy ltd. ― were also distributed.
ulog  is best known for its sturdy box cookers that are used in many countries, but  ulog also promotes parabolic cookers and the scheffler solar kitchens.
topics include solar cooker technology, dissemination strategies, educational  materials, and cultural and social adaptations.
sun ovens international will employ the pes training model in its new  project, in which 500 women will build their own solar panel cooker.
hotpots will likely be manufactured in monterrey, mexico.
ms. araujo says that, except for fried foods, everything can be cooked in a  solar cooker.
tax id #  68-0153141.
weighing 80 kilograms, the cookers are sturdy and stable in high winds.
they prepare food three times daily starting at 5 am, 10 am  and 4 pm.
the international directory makes it easy for people working in the same  part of the world to find others who share an interest in and experience with  solar cooking.
many tool and strategies will be needed to achieve the millennium  development goals by 2015.
since the cookits will be sold they must look as much as  possible like cookits produced in a factory.
i can happily leave the pots with the food  until whenever i return home, and the food will be cooked without being burnt  or sticking to the pot.”
about 30 participants took the week-long course.
additional stability is gained by allowing wind to pass between the  four panels.
the project  continues through the commitment of several basotho solar enthusiasts and  current peace corps volunteers.
people were astonished about the cooking heat generated  by the sun.
tel: 928-536-2269, e-mail: kerrcole@frontiernet.net.
after people have mastered solar cooking, they can then apply for help in making permanent, metal cookers.
they collect their own wood, which takes three to four hours to find.
to  them we are most grateful.
(out of 2,700 applicants, 47  received grants.)
their promotional slogan is cooking in a piece of cardboard you have to see it to believe it.
solar cookers benefit the bhandar economy: here, a solar cooker is used to  melt honey for saleable skin ointment contact: klaus schulte, stenbyvägen 12, 15021 mölnbo, sweden.
contact: susana mazzolli, av.
supporting mr. pimentel’s estimate are the responses from an alliance  known as “four rotary clubs of bulawayo” and the girl  guides of zimbabwe.
afima received funding from theislamic education and science organization to demonstrate the cookit in the koulikoro region and the district of bamako.
the board also created two adjunct groups ― sci advocates and international advisors ― to honor sci volunteers and key solar cooker promoters respectively.
1500 in kerosene in a month.
she then translated construction guidelines and cooking tips into the local language, sesotho.
the award recognizes sun ovens international (soi) for exports to haiti that were made with the assistance of the department of commerces foreign commercial service.
lesotho is a high-altitude country with environmental degradation and cooking fuel shortages.
they contain instructions on how to position and mount the oven to receive sufficient sunlight.
how long will a cookit last?
no single type of solar cooker stands out as the “cooker of  choice” for promoters.
a story on this page discusses  preliminary results of that survey.
“we are looking forward to getting down to work in mexico,” says louise meyer, a she founder who led a solar cooking pilot project in the  sierra gorda region of mexico in may 2003.
for those without internet access, hard  copies of specific country listings may be obtained by contacting the sci  office at the address above, or by e-mail:ramon@solarcookers.org.
it reduces from eye diseases, like eyes hurt, eyes being black and  eyes being swelled.
solar methods reduce or eliminate the need for methyl bromide, a toxic, ozone-depleting pesticide.
to pass the time we sang and clapped, or dozed.
special thanks first- and second-graders from edgerton school in kalispell, montana (usa), earned a dime for each fact they learned during a unit about african cultures.
it  developed a program to demonstrate the cookit in the nine administrative  regions of mali.
soi has been involved in haiti since 1997.
solar cookers are a boon: they address all eight goals with their multiple social, health and environmental benefits for sun-rich communities, as illustrated below: goal: eradicate extreme poverty and hunger solar cookers free up scarce money as a result of savings on purchases of traditional cooking fuels ― a significant expense for those with incomes less than one dollar a day.
(it has french  subtitles.)
according to emace, “women in particular are  benefiting from the cookers as they enable them … to spend more time away  from cooking and to save money otherwise spent on firewood.
sun ovens  international recently launched a new solar cooking program in haiti that will  reward motivated solar cooks with subsidized global sun ovens® (gsos)
by using solar energy, each canister of cooking gas lasts an extra 15 days  or longer, saving the family substantial funds.
local shops in the area now carry large oven roasting bags (a necessary  component of panel-style cookers and an inexpensive glazing option for solar  box cookers) and have agreed to sell the bags individually to make them more  affordable.
“the solar cookers are great,” says a new bosaso solar cook.
goal: achieve universal primary education children, particularly girls, start helping at a young age with the collection of small branches and agricultural residues for use as cooking fuel.
solar cookers are a boon: they address all eight  goals with their multiple social, health and environmental benefits for  sun-rich communities, as illustrated below: goal: eradicate extreme poverty and hunger solar cookers free up scarce money as a result of savings on purchases of  traditional cooking fuels ― a significant expense for those with incomes  less than one dollar a day.
the solar health/samburu health project in kenya trains  community health workers and traditional birth attendants to promote solar  cooking along with their other community work.
rural primary health clinics are centers for spreading solar cooking, reportsalice hoenecke of the program she initiated in madagascar, where 1,400 families have built solar panel cookers for themselves.
purchasers  will receive thorough training to ensure that they become long-term solar cooks.
“it is a great help,” ms. araujo says of the solar cooker.
at the end, two cookits are given to representatives from each village  so the women can test them and further explore solar cooking.
group ulog of switzerland reports 10,000 cookers distributed.
besides schools, a number of promoters make use of existing health networks to promote solar cooking.
goal: ensure environmental sustainability over half the world’s population relies on wood and charcoal for  cooking daily meals.
we had a list of  simple questions and, during the demonstrations, collected answers from 60  women.
after this event he was invited by the rockefeller foundation to cook atop the rca building.
it protects environment from pollution and protects diseases caused by smoke.
the solar health/samburu health project in kenya trains community health workers and traditional birth attendants to promote solar cooking along with their other community work.
after the course i went with two afima members to two villages south of bamako (the capital) and two villages far to the northwest of the country to introduce the cookit.
for both demonstrations women from 10 to 12 neighboring villages were also present.
they prepare food three times daily starting at 5 am, 10 am and 4 pm.
in addition to saving food, money and time, solar cookers offer significant health benefits via 1) reduced exposure to indoor air pollution from smoky cooking fires, 2) improved nutrition by eating slow-cooked foods, 3) fewer injuries associated with fuel wood collection and working around open fires, and 4) solar water pasteurization.
i can happily leave the pots with the food until whenever i return home, and the food will be cooked without being burnt or sticking to the pot.
further, according to bob huff, formerly with the american foundation for aids research, some exciting research is being conducted on the possibility of pasteurized, expressed breast milk reducing (or eliminating) transmission of hiv from mother to child.
the gsos will be assembled at a vocational school located at the evangelical baptist church in lambert, haiti.
for more information about making gifts of all kinds to sci, please give me a call: +1 (916) 455-4499.
it’s quick, easy and tax-efficient!
mr. goto was invited by stanford  university’s dr. marjil to display a solar cooker at an international  solar energy symposium in arizona (usa) in november 1955.
tributes tribute gifts have been given to sci by: joanne lindsay in memory of michael mazur wanda whitehead in  honor of barby pulliam jean becker in honor of joan and lou truskoff mary b. strauss in honor of michael baiad and barry  chersky spread the light by giving securities by virginia callaghan, sci resource coordinator when you decide to donate appreciated securities to sci you help fuel the  spread of solar cooking.
mr. mohau continues to lead workshops in surrounding communities, and display and demonstrate several types of solar cookers at liphofung.
solar product designerrichard pocock calls his version the wonder cushion.
it consists of a segmented frame and four mirrored fiberglass panels with  an aperture area of 1.5 square meters.
ms. araujo is married, with one adult child, but she is also raising her  three teenage nephews.
when the cookers were finished, abe tested several recipes and pasteurized water in them.
the cookers come with reflective areas ranging from  1.5 to 2.5 square meters.
why don't you add water when cooking meat, vegetables and eggs?
solar oven partners (usa/haiti, 600 cookers) bsw alternative energie (germany, 500 cookers)
burkina faso the la trame documentary film studio has released bon appétit,  monsieur soleil, a film about solar cooking in burkina faso.
excerpts from a report by devendra ghimire, a beneficiary of the  solar cooking projects in bhandar, follow: “i received a solar cooker in  november 2000.
as they become more comfortable with the cookits ability to heat water they will likely begin to utilize it more for cooking.
in this way, you don't get a hot spot on the baking pan.
many tool and strategies will be needed to achieve the millennium development goals by 2015.
completed surveys should be mailed to: solar cookers international, 1919 21st
(we no longer use thermometers when demonstrating!)
sun ovens international recently launched a new solar cooking program in haiti that will reward motivated solar cooks with subsidized global sun ovens® (gsos) ― a popular, high-quality solar cooker that has stood the test of time.
she, inc. awarded grant for mexico promotion solar household energy (she), inc., in collaboration with the mexican nature conservation fund, was recently awarded a world bank  “development marketplace” grant.
quality cardboard is not readily available in mali and must  be ordered from senegal, adding to the price of the final product.
goal: improve maternal health smoke from cooking fires is increasingly recognized as a major health  threat, particularly for women and young girls in developing countries.
contact: richard pocock, solarworks, 81 archer crescent, manor gardens,  durban 4001, kwazulu-natal, south africa.
sixty-five percent said that they belong to large families and cook for 10 to 30 persons.
after locating needed materials, some of which came from neighboring south africa, ms. bailey offered a build your own solar oven workshop to friends and neighbors.
midday soil temperatures in the tubes reach 70-80ºc.
of the 234 respondents, 130 teach others to solar cook, 120 build solar  cookers and 107 demonstrate solar cooking in various public forums.
south africa many foods ― such as beans, grains, stews and soups ― require  long, fuel intensive simmering periods to cook properly.
a limited number of complete units are slated for production and sale.
we welcome reports and commentary related to solar cooking for possible  inclusion.
the girl guides association of zambia looks at the question from a  fresh angle.
solar cookers can heat water to pasteurization temperatures using free solar energy.
since the workshop the youth have been traveling around  the rural outskirts of bohicon teaching households how to make and use solar  cookers.
she, inc. awarded grant for mexico promotion solar household energy (she), inc., in collaboration with the mexican nature conservation fund, was recently awarded a world bank development marketplace grant.
mr. pocock suggests placing the pot in a heat-resistant bag before it goes in  the wonder cushion in case of food spillage, but it isn’t necessary.
fifty-four of the respondents report that they sell solar cookers, in many  cases at subsidized prices.
in sunny communities where severe shortages of traditional fuels exist and where there is a prevalence of hiv/aids, solar cookers address many of the challenges faced by families in the midst of the aids pandemic.
rayner sturton in australia notes that by teaching solar cooking to his primary school students, he is able to get the parents interested and involved in solar cooking.
sci especially hopes to hear from those currently listed in our web sites international directory of solar cooking experts and advocates.
ad hoc committee on afghanistan, for keeping  us posted on these and other events.
the  cooker is on a small stand and can be easily covered with a plastic sheet and  moved under a small roof on rainy days to keep it perfectly dry.
if you haven’t yet joined or  renewed for this year, please do so.
during their last six months as peace corps volunteers, ms. bailey and ms. simonson taught over 100 people how to make and use solar cookers.
tel: (800) 998-0832 solar cookers international account #726-027056 dtc #0201 please inform us of the transfer so that we may accurately identify and acknowledge your gift.
last may i accompanied seven afima members to two villages ― niamana  and n'tororo ― in the segou region.
you may also send them by fax: (916) 455-4498 or  e-mail:info@solarcookers.org.
survey results have thus far helped us to update nearly 300 listings in the  directory with improved contact information and expanded notes on solar cooking  activities.
e-mail:inquiries@she-inc.org, web: www.she-inc.org.
by wietske jongbloed
you’ll be hearing more as we map out  the details and seek support for major undertakings.
the chinese cookers cost approximately us $100 each including sea transport charges from china.
the discussions were  enriched by three professional facilitators who generously donated their  services:heidi kolbe, shahrzad saderi and leslie parks.
goal: reduce child mortality waterborne diseases are a primary cause of death among children under the  age of five.
the photo originally ran on the front page of  the new york herald tribune, and the event was reported on television and radio.
ideas for spreading solar cooking many solar cooking promoters try to make use of existing institutions whose mission is compatible with teaching solar cooking.
ms. simonson began to lead workshops as well, concentrating on a panel-style solar cooker based on the cookit because it was simpler to construct.
the board elected a new board member, bruce stahlberg, an energy  efficiency expert and businessman who has promoted household energy efficiency  in latin america.
for safety reasons the panels are designed to provide a focal area of 225 square centimeters instead of a focal point.
tel/fax: 27(0)31 2616881, e-mail: edufun1@iafrica.com.
nepal since 1996 rotary has funded small solar cooker projects in the village of  bhandar, nepal.
“rural primary health clinics are centers for  spreading solar cooking,” reportsalice hoenecke of the program she  initiated in madagascar, where 1,400 families have built solar panel cookers  for themselves.
we welcome reports and commentary related to solar cooking for possible inclusion.
as they  become more comfortable with the cookit’s ability to heat water they will  likely begin to utilize it more for cooking.
a swo costs approximately $150 to build.
contact: raquel ghini, embrapa meio ambiente, c.p. 69, 13820-000  jaguariúna sp, brazil.
emace recently began to produce its own solar box cookers, helping to keep costs down and ensure the projects viability.
you, our supporters and advocates, help shift the paradigm toward  sustainable solutions for future generations.
the standards are available on sci’s solar cooking archive: www.solarcooking.org/asae_test_std.pdf.
according to dr. raquel ghini, a plant pathologist, one sunny day is enough to control several plant pathogens, including fusarium, pythium, sclerotium, sclerotinia and meloidogyne.
this three-day training program includes sessions on solar cooking principles and concepts as well as local environmental education.
they have to: once an adult dies from the disease, the remaining adults and children struggle to survive day to day.
her favorites dishes include rice, polenta, vegetables, potatoes,  soups, seeds, sauces, biscuits, rolls, cakes, eggs and lentils.
we will credit your contribution.
tel: 81-467-793334, fax: 81-467-793334, e-mail:  y-torii@a5.ctktv.ne.jp, web: www5.ctktv.ne.jp/~y-torii.
the board also created two adjunct groups ― sci  advocates and international advisors ― to honor sci volunteers and key  solar cooker promoters respectively.
on clear days in tehran most dishes will cook in 30-90 minutes in  a pressure cooker.
responses came from solar cooking promoters in 67 different countries,  including 18 in india, 12 in nigeria, 11 in kenya, 11 in uganda, 10 in  tanzania, nine in south africa, six in nepal, six in haiti, and five each in  argentina, nepal, mali and the gambia.
over the years he built several other solar cookers ― some quite sophisticated ― and displayed them throughout japan and china in the 1950s.
nepal since 1996 rotary has funded small solar cooker projects in the village of bhandar, nepal.
the environmental impact of this dependence is far reaching ― loss of tree cover, soil depletion, carbon dioxide emissions, etc.
solar cookers can heat water to  pasteurization temperatures using free solar energy.
after people have mastered solar cooking, they can  then apply for help in making permanent, metal cookers.
cooking in a piece of cardboard you have to see it to believe it
now we don't have such problems.
these cookers were assembled locally, providing needed work opportunities.
on the covers of some of the pots i placed an oven thermometer and some people thought that we were cheating, that the thermometers were producing some sort of cooking gas.
back issues are available at  http://solarcooking.org/docs.htm#backissues.
no single type of solar cooker stands out as the cooker of choice for promoters.
gordon magney ― formerly of serve, a relief organization  that spread solar cookers in pakistan and afghanistan ― is leading a  pilot partnership project implemented byinternational foundation of hope andglobal hope network in istalif village, a suburb of kabul.
in sagara,  karnataka, india,k. venkatesha reports that a solar cooking awareness  program exists in 20 schools.
solar product designerrichard pocock calls his version the  wonder cushion.
after that, every body gathers around a microphone, some welcoming speeches are made, and a folded cookit is put on a table and set up.
our respected  worldwide query-response service continues to assist thousands of solar cooking  advocates worldwide.
the film covers the essential points of solar cooking, the acceptance of these devices by the population, the advantages achieved by using them (savings in money and/or time), and their contribution to fighting deforestation.
solar cookers have the potential to benefit  those that are ill and those who care for them.
japan saveur magazine recently published a 1955 photo showing mr. seizo goto of tokyo demonstrating his parabolic solar cooker on top of the 72-story  rca building in new york city, where he successfully cooked rice despite cool  air temperatures of -6ºc.
at the end of the  week they organized a big reception to mark the launch of their cookit  activities.
project coordinator ed carswell took the opportunity to demonstrate how heated water and a water pasteurization indicator (wapi) work in conjunction to pasteurize drinking water.
the americas brazil
goal: promote gender equality and empower women
contact: sun ovens international, 39w835 midan drive, elburn, illinois 60119, usa.
although her neighborhood is dense with houses, ms. araujo’s  patio has a good northern exposure.
a grassroots organization in uganda — solar connect association — also reports 10,000 solar cookers produced.
by january 2004, 234 individuals and organizations had responded to  sci’s 2003 survey of solar cooking promoters.
it is very easy for us to make tea and cook food in the solar heater together even when i am studying books in a day.
the directory, which is updated monthly, is available online: www.solarcooking.org/directory.asp.
in sagara, karnataka, india,k. venkatesha reports that a solar cooking awareness program exists in 20 schools.
when fuel is scarce and expensive, it becomes even harder to heed  public health messages about boiling water.
solar cooker review is sent to those who contribute money or news  about solar cooking projects.
these pockets, and the base circle, are filled with an insulating material such as vermiculite, sawdust, feathers, shredded paper or wool.
the cookers were produced by  silversmiths in kathmandu, transported by bus and carried over the himalayas in  big baskets.
sci especially hopes to hear from those currently listed in our web  site’s international directory of solar cooking experts and advocates.
tel: 94-11-2611 857,  fax: 94-11-2611 857, e-mail:emace@slt.lk, web: www.emace.net; solar energy  ltd., web: www.solarenergyltd.net.
tilt of the reflective panels is also adjustable.
thanks for your visionary support.
soil or other substrates are placed in the tubes through an upper  hatch during the early morning and recovered through the lower hatch 24 hours  later.
“cooking in a piece of cardboard … you have to see it to believe  it” by wietske jongbloed
the solar collector is comprised of six dark-colored metal tubes, each 15 centimeters in diameter, placed in a wooden box 1.5 meters long, 1.0 meter wide and 0.3 meter deep.
it has partnered with a number of rotary clubs and faith-based organizations, notably thefree methodist inland mission in port-au-prince.
for more information visit la trames web site: www.la-trame.org.
hiv/aids places an enormous economic and social burden on affected families.
she keeps it on the small patio behind her  kitchen.
we had a list of simple questions and, during the demonstrations, collected answers from 60 women.
these instructions are posted (in french) on the kozon web  site:www.kozon.org.
in areas of acute shortages, this task interferes with school attendance and eats up study time.
the amazing  part of this story?
the harsh realities of fuel wood scarcity have a disproportionate impact on women and undermine their ability to generate income through agriculture or small businesses.
some women could not believe that there was no fire under the  cardboard.
dieter seifert ― inventor of the sk-14 and similar parabolic cookers ― estimates that about 16,000 of his cookers have been produced worldwide.
united states of america dr. paul funk, a solar cooking expert and previous solar cookers international (sci) board member, sends news that after many years of effort an official standard for testing and reporting solar cooker performance has been adopted by theamerican society of agricultural engineers.
we also continue to  support a refugee-run solar cooking cooperative in kakuma refugee camp.
thanks to virginie mitchem, task force coordinator of solar cookers internationals ad hoc committee on afghanistan, for keeping us posted on these and other events.
92 percent of the people who obtained the gsos continued using them  regularly after the first 12 months.
purchasers will receive thorough training to ensure that they become long-term solar cooks.
the seyhan rotary club in southeastern turkey reports nearly 2,000 solar panel cookers produced and distributed over 800 through training workshops and 1,000 supplied in an earthquake disaster relief effort in turkey.
then participants would build their own solar cooker and paint their pots black.
the burden on elderly relatives and orphans  increases as they need to get food and the fuel wood to cook it with, and raise  money for many needs ― such as soap, clothing, school fees, and  maintenance of their own health.
goal: develop a global partnership for development widespread access to solar cookers by those who will benefit most will  require partnerships between the public and private sectors, on a local,  national and international scale.
contact: mahnaz saremi, 7624 amber way, stockton, california 95207, usa.
mothers who are hiv positive can solar pasteurize water for infant formula  with freely available solar energy.
each panel is adjustable.
seventy respondents report that they teach people to be solar cooking instructors.
tel: 54-11-4815-2999, fax: 54-11-4815-2999, e-mail: solar@zeus-net.com.ar.
you may also send them by fax: (916) 455-4498 or e-mail:info@solarcookers.org.
iran dr. mahnaz saremi, former project director at solar cookers  international, presented a seminar titled “environment, ngos and  community projects, case study: solar cooking in east africa” at shiraz  university in december 2003.
it is found that it saves from rs.
since the workshop the youth have been traveling around the rural outskirts of bohicon teaching households how to make and use solar cookers.
a story on this page discusses preliminary results of that survey.
in rural areas, however, the most people seem able and  willing to pay is around us $4.75.
they contain instructions on how to position and  mount the oven to receive sufficient sunlight.
a tip from the solare-bruecke web site ( http://solare-bruecke.org): you can bake with a parabolic cooker by placing  your baking pan inside a larger, covered pot with space all around the baking  pan.
solar cookers transform clean solar energy into valuable heat for cooking  and water pasteurization.
at the end of the week they organized a big reception to mark the launch of their cookit activities.
peace corps duo enthusiastic about lesotho project u.s. peace corps volunteers nancy bailey and mary simonson spent two years (2001-2003) in the butha-buthe district of northern lesotho.
when they invite adults to a workshop on solar cooking, they  provide a day school environment for the children, so that the parents are free  for the workshop and the children are also stimulated.
the cooker is on a small stand and can be easily covered with a plastic sheet and moved under a small roof on rainy days to keep it perfectly dry.
contact: solar household energy, inc., po box 15063, chevy chase,  maryland 20825-0063, usa.
after that, every body gathers around a microphone, some welcoming speeches are  made, and a folded cookit is put on a table and set up.
he has shown his  designs at trade shows in butha-buthe and hopes to begin selling the cookers.
malawi lilongwe rotary club has embarked on a solar cooker project in the central region of malawi.
ms. yasuko torii, an avid solar cook and promoter, was inspired by this discovery of early solar cooking research in japan and reports her findings on mr. gotos pioneering work.
most participants pay a fee to cover the costs of the  workshop and materials.
contact: richard pocock, solarworks, 81 archer crescent, manor gardens, durban 4001, kwazulu-natal, south africa.
one cookit is adequate for families of up to five persons, but two is better.
if you are promoting solar  cooking and have not returned your survey, please do so soon.
seventy respondents report that they teach people  to be solar cooking instructors.
street, suite 101, sacramento, california 95811-6827, usa.
the health effects include acute respiratory infections, eye infections, asthma and increased risk of tuberculosis and cataracts.
now the women have more time to devote to  their weaving, resulting in higher incomes for their families.
(out of 2,700 applicants, 47 received grants.)
(the head of horn relief won the goldman environmental prize in 2001 for her work in environmental conservation, in particular her efforts to control the charcoal trade in northeastern somalia that is decimating the little remaining tree cover in the country to supply an export market to the middle east.)
mission mazahua, in mexico, is one of the producers of the sunstove®, and it reports 600 cookers made at its center in mexico.
contact: yasuko torii, 2-8-12 kamitsuchidana, kita, ayase, kanagawa  252-1111, japan.
tel: 31-317412370, fax: 31-317410732, e-mail: wiewen@bart.nl.
in this area the best way to popularize the cookit is to use it to produce warm water.
(food  and process engineering fall under the realm of this organization.)
because the adults eat lunch at work and the children eat lunch at school, the main meal of the day is the evening meal.
this will include two international meetings.
in 2002 she took a solar cooking course offered by the  government of the city of buenos aires as part of poverty alleviation program.
workshops were recently held in the vavuniya district and orders for 50 solar box cookers were filled.
tel: 94-11-2611 857, fax: 94-11-2611 857, e-mail:emace@slt.lk, web: www.emace.net; solar energy ltd., web: www.solarenergyltd.net.
solar methods  reduce or eliminate the need for methyl bromide, a toxic, ozone-depleting  pesticide.
for example, even though our survey did not ask a specific question about schools, nearly 10 percent of the respondents volunteered the information that their strategy involves spreading solar cooking through universities, colleges, secondary schools, primary schools or training centers.
there is always something on it.
he was a tireless and enthusiastic  attendee at solar conferences both in his us homeland and elsewhere in the  world.”
larger cookits are often requested so that meals, particularly millet  porridge, can be cooked in greater quantities.
tel: (800) 998-0832 solar cookers  international account #726-027056 dtc #0201 please inform us of the transfer so that we may accurately identify and  acknowledge your gift.
other cookers include parabolic-type cookers, concentrator trough cookers and a variety of box cookers.
other survey respondents who reported producing/distributing 250 or more  cookers included these: solar oven society (based in usa, 2,500 cookers produced) narenda singh rathore of the department of renewable energy  sources (india, 2,400 cookers) ashok kundapur (india, 2,000 cookers) ao sol (portugal, 1,000 cookers) eri (india, 1,000 cookers)
south africa many foods ― such as beans, grains, stews and soups ― require long, fuel intensive simmering periods to cook properly.
schematics of mr. gotos 600-watt solar cooker seizo goto (1891-1982), founder of telescope and planetarium company goto optical manufacturing, built two parabolic solar cookers in 1947 with a subsidy from tokyo metropolitan government.
then many questions are asked: why do you  blacken the pot?
to them we are most grateful.
if you are promoting solar cooking and have not returned your survey, please do so soon.
mr. goto was invited by stanford universitys dr. marjil to display a solar cooker at an international solar energy symposium in arizona (usa) in november 1955.
local shops in the area now carry large oven roasting bags (a necessary component of panel-style cookers and an inexpensive glazing option for solar box cookers) and have agreed to sell the bags individually to make them more affordable.
contact: wietske jongbloed, stichting kozon, hollandseweg 384, 6705 be wageningen, netherlands.
“one of them is working at our office.
cow dung patties are the primary cooking fuel,  supplemented with shrubs, dried aloe plants, and rootstalks of corn and other  crops.
he recently led a workshop at a school for developmentally disabled children in butha-buthe.
one cookit is adequate for families  of up to five persons, but two is better.
can we find plastic cooking bags in our village?
for more information about the cookers, contact: mr. zhang zang, sangli solar, sheng zhou road # 8, yan du industrial zone, yan cheng city, 224005 jiang su province, china.
contact: wietske jongbloed, stichting kozon, hollandseweg 384,  6705 be wageningen, netherlands.
in a show of inspiring persistence, noel bourke of sola kookas in perth, australia, reports hand-building 45 solar box cookers per year for  the past 10 years.
goal: develop a global partnership for development widespread access to solar cookers by those who will benefit most will require partnerships between the public and private sectors, on a local, national and international scale.
incentives offered to motivated haitian solar cooks on december 18, 2003, speaker of the u.s. house of representatives dennis hastert presented paul munsen, president of sun ovens  international, with the us commerce department’s export achievement  certificate.
many have used the  extra time and money to start their own micro-businesses ― some have even  used the cookers themselves to gain extra income by selling cakes and sweets  prepared in them.”
in the november 2003 solar cooker review we erroneously stated that manuel  collares pereira lives in spain.
while the sun is doing its work there is dancing and singing.
these benefits are all the more life enhancing for families affected by hiv/aids.
it can boil up to 40 liters of water during solar day.
we find that poor rural women dare to spend their precious money on the cookit only if it is highly subsidized, and packaged with the requisite black cooking pot, heat-resistant cooking bags, and a cotton carrying bag.
incentives offered to motivated haitian solar cooks on december 18, 2003, speaker of the u.s. house of representatives dennis hastert presented paul munsen, president of sun ovens international, with the us commerce departments export achievement certificate.
a retained-heat cooker, also known as a fireless cooker or hay box, is an insulated enclosure in which is set a pot of food that has been brought to a boil, allowing it to continue to cook after being removed from its heat source.
it also serves to introduce this cooking method to decision makers in government agencies and ngos.
in mid-2003, sci again began taking the pulse of the solar cooking movement  by surveying 4,000 international readers of the solar cooker review and some  selected promoters based in the united states.
further, according to bob huff, formerly  with the american foundation for aids research, some exciting research is being  conducted on the possibility of pasteurized, expressed breast milk reducing (or  eliminating) transmission of hiv from mother to child.
the solar collector is comprised of six dark-colored metal tubes, each 15  centimeters in diameter, placed in a wooden box 1.5 meters long, 1.0 meter wide  and 0.3 meter deep.
… it is very easy and useful to boil beans, potatoes and other  beans, which usually consumes more kerosene.
the cookers were produced by silversmiths in kathmandu, transported by bus and carried over the himalayas in big baskets.
solar cookers deserve recognition as one of these tools.
though kozon  provides afima with aluminum foil and cooking bags, the pricier cardboard (and  black cooking pot) drive the price up to nearly us $18, which urban people with  jobs may be able to pay.
(it has french subtitles.)
e-mail:klaus.schulte@telia.com.
why don't you add water when  cooking meat, vegetables and eggs?
her favorites dishes include rice, polenta, vegetables, potatoes, soups, seeds, sauces, biscuits, rolls, cakes, eggs and lentils.
rayner sturton in australia notes that by  teaching solar cooking to his primary school students, he is able to get the  parents interested and involved in solar cooking.
since ms. bailey lived at the popularliphofung cultural heritage site, many passers-by witnessed her cookers in action.
now, the school has three  solar cookers with which to cook the children’s lunches and each of the  teachers have a solar cooker that they use at home.
though kozon provides afima with aluminum foil and cooking bags, the pricier cardboard (and black cooking pot) drive the price up to nearly us $18, which urban people with jobs may be able to pay.
ms. bailey taught her colleague, ntate mohau, general principles of  solar cooker construction and use.
now the women have more time to devote to their weaving, resulting in higher incomes for their families.
the survey is available online atwww.solarcooking.org/surveys/survey1.htm.
portrait of a new solar cook susana mazzolli, an active solar cooking promoter in argentina,  provided this portrait ofjosefina araujo, a new solar cook living on the  outskirts of buenos aires.
children can attend school more regularly or take the time to  study as they spend less time helping with collecting fuel wood or tending a  cooking fire.
e-mail: faratab@yahoo.com.
topics include solar cooker technology, dissemination strategies, educational materials, and cultural and social adaptations.
1350 to rs. 1500 in kerosene in a month.
“the meals don’t burn.
they collected all the dimes in a bucket and donated them tosolar  cookers international.
this can be challenging with hand  production.
most have not yet responded to the survey.
when they invite adults to a workshop on solar cooking, they provide a day school environment for the children, so that the parents are free for the workshop and the children are also stimulated.
sun ovens international will employ the pes training model in its new project, in which 500 women will build their own solar panel cooker.
the 25 participants learned how to build and use solar box cookers and panel cookers ( solar cookers internationals cookits).
china horn relief, a local somali ngo, recently imported several solar  cookers from china with the assistance of a small grant frommrs.
asia and pacific afghanistan pre-formed parts and cutting jigs for 400 sos sport solar box cookers from thesolar oven society were shipped to afghanistan last year.
now, the school has three solar cookers with which to cook the childrens lunches and each of the teachers have a solar cooker that they use at home.
another workshop participant, mr. mpiti, was intrigued by the design possibilities and constructed several different solar cooker prototypes including an efficient concentrator-type solar cooker made from cardboard and foil.
afima invited me in may 2001 to introduce the cookit (solar cookers  international’s panel-style solar cooker) and its fabrication to their  members.
these benefits are all the more life  enhancing for families affected by hiv/aids.
initial results are favorable.
cow dung patties are the primary cooking fuel, supplemented with shrubs, dried aloe plants, and rootstalks of corn and other crops.
in an obituary, his colleague margaret bennett wrote: “as a  businessman with investments in [south africa], dick became aware of our  environmental and social problems, especially those worsened by energy and  water shortage.
the kozon foundation found two organizations in the  netherlands willing to finance demonstrations in the ségou, mopti and  kayes regions.
(the hotpot is a panel-style solar cooker similar tosolar cookers internationals cookit, but including a custom bowl-shaped cooking pot encased in a glass bowl and lid.)
… it protects environment from  pollution and protects diseases caused by smoke.
men said that they could take the  cookit and ingredients to the field and in that way their wives would not be  obligated to follow them ― often more than six miles ― to bring  them their midday meal.
after her three-hour shift, she returns in the early afternoon to find everything cooked.
in sunny communities where severe shortages of traditional fuels  exist and where there is a prevalence of hiv/aids, solar cookers address many  of the challenges faced by families in the midst of the aids pandemic.
since buenos aires is nearly 35 degrees south of the equator, a northern exposure is essential for solar cooking.
according to dr. raquel ghini, a plant pathologist, one sunny day is enough to control  several plant pathogens, including fusarium, pythium, sclerotium, sclerotinia  and meloidogyne.
some leading promoters gordon magney, now based in kabul, afghanistan, reports 21,000 solar box cookers produced in a long career involving service to afghani communities both in refugee camps in pakistan and in afghanistan itself.
each woman will receive a log in which to document her solar cooker use and the amount of money saved by not buying cooking fuel (charcoal).
by using solar energy, each canister of cooking gas lasts an extra 15 days or longer, saving the family substantial funds.
solar cookers transform clean solar energy into valuable heat for cooking and water pasteurization.
since our report on these efforts last year an additional 56  sk-14 parabolic solar cookers have been disseminated, bringing the total to 122  cookers in this village of roughly 400 families.
she then keeps it in the cooler until dinnertime and quickly  reheats it on a gas stove before serving it to her family.
dieter seifert ― inventor of the sk-14 and similar parabolic  cookers ― estimates that about 16,000 of his cookers have been produced  worldwide.
if you havent yet joined or renewed for this year, please do so.
in rural areas, however, the most people seem able and willing to pay is around us $4.75.
tororo workshop participants insert a food-filled pot into a cookit afima follows a fixed program during these demonstrations in which they  include as many of the spectators as possible.
participants build their own panel-type solar cooker (modeled aftersolar cookers internationals cookit) and solar cook lunch each day.
smoke is also linked to low-birth weight and infant mortality.
malawi lilongwe rotary club has embarked on a solar cooker project in the  central region of malawi.
iran dr. mahnaz saremi, former project director at solar cookers international, presented a seminar titled environment, ngos and community projects, case study: solar cooking in east africa at shiraz university in december 2003.
in both villages about a 100 women attended, accompanied by many men and hundreds of children.
the 250-mile journey was taken by rented school bus, in which we endured temperatures over 40ºc without air conditioning.
we regret the  error.
for the past three years a group of professional women ―
our often-copied and translated educational resources support all of the above initiatives and need expanding in scope and accessibility.
―  were also distributed.
the project is organized by a team of researchers led  bymr.
in this way, you don't get a “hot spot” on the baking pan.
contact: nancy bailey, site 9 box 7, hoopa, california 95546, usa.
since buenos aires is nearly 35 degrees  south of the equator, a northern exposure is essential for solar cooking.
creole chicken cooked to perfection in a gso a similar, smaller project in 2000 provided gsos at a subsidized cost of us  $50 each.
according to emace, women in particular are benefiting from the cookers as they enable them to spend more time away from cooking and to save money otherwise spent on firewood.
tel: 630-208-7273, fax: 630-208-7386, e-mail:info@sunoven.com, web:  www.sunoven.com.
when you decide to donate appreciated securities to sci you help fuel the spread of solar cooking.
the film is a tool to inform people living in countries with energy problems about other ways to cook.
contact: yasuko torii, 2-8-12 kamitsuchidana, kita, ayase, kanagawa 252-1111, japan.
a current peace corps volunteer has taught her womens handicraft group how to solar cook and now the women use the ovens to cook their meals at work and at home.
each woman  will receive a log in which to document her solar cooker use and the amount of  money saved by not buying cooking fuel (charcoal).
other  cookers include parabolic-type cookers, concentrator trough cookers and a  variety of box cookers.
ms. kerrs swo as seen from inside her kitchen and outside her home the kerr-cole sustainable living center has developed do-it-yourself guidelines for architects, builders and remodelers to incorporate swos into their own designs.
we find that poor rural women dare to spend their precious  money on the cookit only if it is highly subsidized, and packaged with the  requisite black cooking pot, heat-resistant cooking bags, and a cotton carrying  bag.
these groups jointly have produced and distributed  6,500 cookers in southern zimbabwe in a little over six years.
nearly all of the sos sport cookers have since been purchased.
these guidelines allow for adaptability to a variety of circumstances and materials.
participants who use their solar panel cooker at least 70 percent of sunny days during a 90-day period will be eligible to buy a gso at a subsidized rate.
on clear days in tehran most dishes will cook in 30-90 minutes in a pressure cooker.
we are looking forward to getting down to work in mexico, says louise meyer, a she founder who led a solar cooking pilot project in the sierra gorda region of mexico in may 2003.
solar cookers: a tool for reaching un millennium development goals by pascale dennery, sci program manager the united nations millennium development goals, adopted by all 191 united  nations member states, are a roadmap towards the next decade of human  development on a global scale.
after locating needed  materials, some of which came from neighboring south africa, ms. bailey offered  a “build your own solar oven” workshop to friends and neighbors.
weighing 80 kilograms, the  cookers are sturdy and stable in high winds.
“previous workshops … were  historically poorly attended if there wasn’t food offered or if  participants were required to contribute money.
participants paid half of the materials cost (roughly us $1.40) and brought  their own aluminum pots to paint black.
we also continue to support a refugee-run solar cooking cooperative in kakuma refugee camp.
the environmental impact of this dependence is far  reaching ― loss of tree cover, soil depletion, carbon dioxide emissions,  etc.
the guidelines are freely  available on the internet:www.solarcooking.org/bkerr/swo.htm.
in january 2004 vincent nnanna, an experienced solar cooking advocate, held a two-day workshop with members ofcanadian world youth who are volunteering in the south-central part of benin near bohicon.
solar cooker review solar cooker review is published two or three times per year with the purpose of presenting solar cooking information from around the world.
ms. araujos approach to solar cooking is to start the food in her solar cooker before she goes to work.
in may 2003 i worked with five afima members to develop a method to accomplish this.
back issues are available at http://solarcooking.org/docs.htm#backissues.
it is like a reviving medicine to my family and to the entire [village].
tel: 630-208-7273, fax: 630-208-7386, e-mail:info@sunoven.com, web: www.sunoven.com.
the water is used for taking baths, cleaning dishes, making tea and for cooking food.
pots contain, rice, meat and chicken combined with vegetables; eggs to hard bake; and syrup preparations.
these instructions are posted (in french) on the kozon web site:www.kozon.org.
the discussions were enriched by three professional facilitators who generously donated their services:heidi kolbe, shahrzad saderi and leslie parks.
a summary of their reports follows.
in july 2003 she was supplied with one of the cookers built in her course and has become a regular user.
ms. araujo says that, except for fried foods, everything can be cooked in a solar cooker.
since ms. bailey lived at the popularliphofung cultural  heritage site, many passers-by witnessed her cookers in action.
they received a cookit (solar cookers international ’s panel-style solar cooker) from a friend, as well as plans for various  types of solar cookers from sci’s informational website the solar cooking  archive (http://solarcooking.org.
these may be edited for clarity or space.
with mr. mohaus assistance, ms. bailey taught an initial 20 people how to build their own solar box cooker.
in both villages about a 100 women attended,  accompanied by many men and hundreds of children.
ms. araujo’s approach to  solar cooking is to start the food in her solar cooker before she goes to work.
schematics of mr. goto’s 600-watt solar cooker seizo goto (1891-1982), founder of telescope and planetarium company goto optical manufacturing, built two parabolic solar cookers in 1947 with  a subsidy from tokyo metropolitan government.
demand for cookers among these communities is currently outstripping  supply.
for more information about making gifts of all kinds to  sci, please give me a call: +1 (916) 455-4499.
other survey respondents who reported producing/distributing 250 or more cookers included these: in a show of inspiring persistence, noel bourke of sola kookas in perth, australia, reports hand-building 45 solar box cookers per year for the past 10 years.
it consists of a segmented frame and four mirrored fiberglass panels with an aperture area of 1.5 square meters.
he was determined that any technology designed for rural people had to be within their power to purchase.
he recently led a workshop at a school for  developmentally disabled children in butha-buthe.
they have very little money, if any, to spend on apparatus they have to  try out.
eggs and groundnuts are good starter foods.
she keeps it on the small patio behind her kitchen.
sci is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization assisting communities to use the power of the sun to cook food and pasteurize water for the benefit of people and environments.
he found them to be fairly expensive
then many questions are asked: why do you blacken the pot?
nguyen tan bich (viet nam, 700 cookers)
the project is organized by a team of researchers led bymr.
abe did all the work by himself, and he is five years old!
it is a great companion to a solar cooker, allowing for food to  cook or stay warm as the sun sets.
ms.  simonson began to lead workshops as well, concentrating on a panel-style solar  cooker based on the cookit because it was simpler to construct.
refugee shadrack alumai finishes painting the new solar cooking cooperative (sococo) building a close second priority is the mobilization of solar cooking leaders worldwide for joint advocacy toward public and private support to spread solar cooking for health, economic and environmental benefits in the twenty most needy countries.
he has also promoted solar cooking in tajikistan.
people were astonished about the cooking heat generated by the sun.
he has shown his designs at trade shows in butha-buthe and hopes to begin selling the cookers.
two women out of the audience are then asked to repeat the explanations to show that they are well understood, which sometimes ends up in hilarious situations with lots of laughter.
solar cookers can be left unattended, so that they are user-friendly for the sick as well as those caring for them.
from time to time we cover  related topics such as women’s issues, wood shortages, health, nutrition,  air pollution, climatic changes, and the environment.
burkina faso the la trame documentary film studio has released bon appétit, monsieur soleil, a film about solar cooking in burkina faso.
solar cooker review july 2004 solar cooking archive: http://solarcooking.org volume 10, number 1 (back issues at http://solarcooking.org/docs.htm) paper circulation: 12,000 online hits: in this issue news you send africa and europe benin
eggs and groundnuts are good  starter foods.
sci is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization assisting communities to use the  power of the sun to cook food and pasteurize water for the benefit of people  and environments.
he was a tireless and enthusiastic attendee at solar conferences both in his us homeland and elsewhere in the world.
tests are now being conducted as to the usefulness of parabolic solar cookers in that area.
please cite sources  whenever possible.
contact: oliver walton, solar project coordinator, emace, 1/72 sri rahula mawatha, katubedda, moratuwa 10400, sri lanka.
tel: +86 515-8466966 x 8008, fax: +86  515-8466877, e-mail:sangli@pub.yc.jsinfo.net, web: www.chinasangli.com/2oven.htm .
he built three types of solar cookers ― a solar box cooker, a panel-type  cooker, and a concentrating cooker ― using tools his grandfather gave  him.
tracking of the sun is simple due to rotational capabilities around its vertical axis.
hans bekaert of belgium reports that his organization developed an educational program for the belgian government to promote renewable energy in schools.
he actually lives portugal.
meyer andlorenzo rosenzweig,  executive director of themexican nature conservation fund, will manage  the project.
this pillow is placed on the pots lid before cinching the unit with a drawstring, preventing heat loss through the top of the pot.
hosana nyirenda, a solar cooking advocate who first contacted solar cookers international in 1998.
afima now organizes hand production of cookits.
seventy-five percent of the women heat water to wash babies.
tel: 00229444619, e-mail:vinfish@hotmail.com.
they have very little money, if any, to spend on apparatus they have to try out.
ms. bailey taught her colleague, ntate mohau, general principles of solar cooker construction and use.
two hundred cookits for these early courses and demonstrations were graciously provided by thekozon foundation.
he was determined that any technology designed for rural  people had to be within their power to purchase.
portrait of a new solar cook susana mazzolli, an active solar cooking promoter in argentina, provided this portrait ofjosefina araujo, a new solar cook living on the outskirts of buenos aires.
it has  partnered with a number of rotary clubs and faith-based organizations, notably  thefree methodist inland mission in port-au-prince.
sri lanka the emace foundation continues its efforts to spread solar cooking in sri lanka, particularly war-torn northern and eastern regions.
solar cooker review is compiled and edited by the staff of solar cookers international (sci), with layout graciously provided byimpact publications located in medford, oregon, usa.
workshops  generally had 10-12 participants lead by a teacher and two assistants.
this can be challenging with hand production.
transparent plastic film allows sunlight in through the top of the box, while aluminum foil lines the bottom of the box to increase heating.
the tooling and  training required to assemble the ovens in haiti is being provided.
preview of coming attractions: a worldwide solar cooking movement by ramón coyle, sci database coordinator responses to a recent solar cookers international (sci) survey indicate that a few hundred individuals, nonprofit organizations, research centers and alternative energy businesses have produced well over 100,000 solar cookers.
solar cooker review solar cooker review is published two or three times per year with  the purpose of presenting solar cooking information from around the world.
(gsos retail in the us for $229.)
after the course i went with two afima members to two villages south of  bamako (the capital) and two villages far to the northwest of the country to  introduce the cookit.
afima received funding from theislamic education and  science organization to demonstrate the cookit in the koulikoro region and  the district of bamako.
it is like a reviving medicine to my  family and to the entire [village].”
the solar cookers are great, says a new bosaso solar cook.
a retained-heat cooker  can finish off these dishes without fuel (or sunlight if solar cooking) and can  keep cooked foods warm for long periods of time.
a limited number of complete units are  slated for production and sale.
these savings can be used on additional food.
tel: 81-467-793334, fax: 81-467-793334, e-mail: y-torii@a5.ctktv.ne.jp, web: www5.ctktv.ne.jp/~y-torii.
emace is looking for additional support to assist with production and  transport costs.
by january 2004, 234 individuals and organizations had responded to scis 2003 survey of solar cooking promoters.
abe mcbride, a student in greenville, tennessee (usa), researched  solar cookers for a science fair project.
we’ll put your gift to work  immediately.
meyer andlorenzo rosenzweig, executive director of themexican nature conservation fund, will manage the project.
nearly all  of the sos sport cookers have since been purchased.
the burden on elderly relatives and orphans increases as they need to get food and the fuel wood to cook it with, and raise money for many needs ― such as soap, clothing, school fees, and maintenance of their own health.
the film covers the essential points of solar cooking, the  acceptance of these devices by the population, the advantages achieved by using  them (savings in money and/or time), and their contribution to fighting  deforestation.
tilt of the reflective  panels is also adjustable.
most participants pay a fee to cover the costs of the workshop and materials.
to pass the time we sang and clapped, or  dozed.
on the covers of some of the pots i placed an oven thermometer and  some people thought that we were cheating, that the thermometers were producing  some sort of cooking gas.
these efforts were initiated by the test standard committee at 1997s third world conference on solar cooking sponsored by avinashilingam university and sci.
ideas for spreading solar cooking many solar cooking promoters try to make use of existing institutions whose  mission is compatible with teaching solar cooking.
“the amazing thing about the  solar oven project is the unprecedented level of community interest and  investment,” says ms. simonson.
an insulated, circular pillow must also be sewn.
since 1985, when she first built one into her house, she has tried to make this cooker available to the world.
jack anderson (canada/haiti, 500-1,000 cookers) fundacion terra (spain, 500 cookers)
street, suite 101, sacramento,  california 95811-6827, usa.
scis top priority for 2010 is independent spread of solar cooking beyond nyakach― its sunny solutions project community in western kenya ― to all suitable parts of kenya.
it is very easy and useful to boil beans, potatoes and other beans, which usually consumes more kerosene.
respondents are involved with promoting the very large and powerful scheffler community kitchens, scis humble, low-cost cookit panel-type cooker, and many cookers in between.
those not heard from may be dropped from the directory.
these efforts culminate with a solar potluck on the final day.
so he decided to make some for himself using salvage materials.
emace recently began to produce its own solar box cookers,  helping to keep costs down and ensure the project’s viability.
the girl guides association of zambia looks at the question from a fresh angle.
adult caregivers who solar cook can devote more time for income generating  activities and care of their ill family member(s), plus save the money they  would have otherwise spent on cooking fuel to purchase additional food and  other essentials.
not only women but also men took interest.
larger cookits are often requested so that meals, particularly millet porridge, can be cooked in greater quantities.
amir mahdi komarizadeh, a graduate student at azad university in  iran, has designed, built and tested a concentrating-type solar cooker called  vafa.
the  association of women engineers(afima) ― have worked to spread solar  cooker use throughout mali.
a  favorite project of theirs was solar cooking.
hans bekaert of belgium reports that his organization developed an educational program  for the belgian government to promote renewable energy in schools.
an inexpensive solar collector, developed in brazil, has been used by  growers and nurseries for the past decade to disinfest soil.
a retained-heat cooker can finish off these dishes without fuel (or sunlight if solar cooking) and can keep cooked foods warm for long periods of time.
santa fe 1159 3f, buenos aires 1059,  argentina.
besides schools, a number of promoters make use of existing health networks  to promote solar cooking.
as stated before the cookit is not large enough to accept big cooking pots used to prepare millet broth and rice for large families.
previous workshops were historically poorly attended if there wasnt food offered or if participants were required to contribute money.
… i have to tolerate a lot of  smokes coming inside my house when someone cooks food for us and make animal  seeds.
a carrying handle can also be added.
with mr. mohau’s assistance, ms.  bailey taught an initial 20 people how to build their own solar box cooker.
fabiola cuvi ortiz (ecuador, 500 cookers) abdoulaye sadid diallo (guinea, 493 cookers)
one of them is working at our office.
leaders anticipate the project will expand with revenue from user fees, sales of gsos to haitian americans for delivery to family members in haiti, sales to other ngos and solicitation of additional donors.
emace is looking for additional support to assist with production and transport costs.
as stated before  the cookit is not large enough to accept big cooking pots used to prepare  millet broth and rice for large families.
a group then takes about 30 cookits to a sunny place nearby, unfolds them and learns to set them up, and finds stones to stabilize them in the wind.
the sunstove®, still  selling today, is the result of many hours of drawing, dozens of trial models  and eventual capital input from dick.
a grassroots organization in uganda solar connect association also reports 10,000 solar cookers produced.
he has also  promoted solar cooking in tajikistan.
it also makes  easy to farmers they can consume more of their time for farming by cooking  their food in the solar cooker easily.
many have used the extra time and money to start their own micro-businesses ― some have even used the cookers themselves to gain extra income by selling cakes and sweets prepared in them.
the pilot phase is expected to last one year, with a budget of us $27,000.
a retained-heat cooker, also  known as a fireless cooker or “hay box”, is an insulated  enclosure in which is set a pot of food that has been brought to a  boil, allowing it to continue to cook after being removed from its heat  source.
help sci identify solar cooking leaders in your country
its quick, easy and tax-efficient!
leaders anticipate the project  will expand with revenue from user fees, sales of gsos to haitian americans for  delivery to family members in haiti, sales to other ngos and solicitation of  additional donors.
preview of coming attractions: a worldwide solar cooking movement by ramón coyle, sci database coordinator responses to a recent solar cookers international (sci) survey  indicate that a few hundred individuals, nonprofit organizations, research  centers and alternative energy businesses have produced well over 100,000 solar  cookers.
further  instructions are available for us $5-25 depending on level of detail needed.
respondents are involved with promoting the very  large and powerful scheffler community kitchens, sci’s humble, low-cost  “cookit” panel-type cooker, and many cookers in between.
contact: solar household energy, inc., po box 15063, chevy chase, maryland 20825-0063, usa.
this process will provide students with vocational training and a source of income.
the amazing part of this story?
transparent plastic film allows sunlight in through the top  of the box, while aluminum foil lines the bottom of the box to increase  heating.
the cooker’s parabolic mirrors are made of cast iron with a highly  reflective aluminum tape comprising the reflective surface.
it helps to preserve natural  environment.
meanwhile, in zambia, the girl guide association, with aid from a local rotary group, has taught 500 people to make and use their own solar cookers.
after her three-hour shift, she returns in the early afternoon to find  everything cooked.
at its exciting spring meeting, solar cookers international’s  dynamic, diverse board of directors set six program goals for the year 2010,  each embracing major new initiatives.
since 1985, when she first built  one into her house, she has tried to make this cooker available to the world.
these guidelines allow for adaptability to a variety of  circumstances and materials.
for example, dr. michael götz of switzerland demonstrates solar cooking at  various fairs and festivals, serving delicious solar pancakes to stimulate  people’s appetites for more solar cooking knowledge.
responses came from solar cooking promoters in 67 different countries, including 18 in india, 12 in nigeria, 11 in kenya, 11 in uganda, 10 in tanzania, nine in south africa, six in nepal, six in haiti, and five each in argentina, nepal, mali and the gambia.
completed  surveys should be mailed to: solar cookers international, 1919 21st
the board elected a new board member, bruce stahlberg, an energy efficiency expert and businessman who has promoted household energy efficiency in latin america.
she then keeps it in the cooler until dinnertime and quickly reheats it on a gas stove before serving it to her family.
it reduces from eye diseases, like eyes hurt, eyes being black and eyes being swelled.
our respected worldwide query-response service continues to assist thousands of solar cooking advocates worldwide.
contact: raquel ghini, embrapa meio ambiente, c.p. 69, 13820-000 jaguariúna sp, brazil.
mr. pocock suggests placing the pot in a heat-resistant bag before it goes in the wonder cushion in case of food spillage, but it isnt necessary.
refugee shadrack alumai finishes painting the new solar cooking  cooperative (sococo) building a close second priority is the mobilization of solar cooking leaders  worldwide for joint advocacy toward public and private support to spread solar  cooking for health, economic and environmental benefits in the twenty most  needy countries.
meanwhile, in  zambia, the girl guide association, with aid from a local rotary group, has  taught 500 people to make and use their own solar cookers.
demand for cookers among these communities is currently outstripping supply.
salifu mahama in ghana, for example, reports teaching 1,000 students how to make solar box cookers using packing cases and cardboard.
the water is used for taking baths, cleaning dishes, making tea and for cooking  food.
107 demonstrate solar cooking in various public forums.
the project manager istemba lama.
since our report on these efforts last year an additional 56 sk-14 parabolic solar cookers have been disseminated, bringing the total to 122 cookers in this village of roughly 400 families.
of the 234 respondents, 130 teach others to solar cook, 120 build solar cookers and
pots contain,  rice, meat and chicken combined with vegetables; eggs to hard bake; and syrup  preparations.
research on larger cookits is  being conducted.
women for peace in south africa teach people to make their own  cardboard solar cookers.
caring for a sick family member takes time away from various livelihood activities and death of an adult family member can lead to loss of income.
well put your gift to work immediately.
it helps to preserve natural environment.
a summary of  their reports follows.
asia and pacific afghanistan pre-formed parts and cutting jigs for 400 “sos sport” solar box  cookers from thesolar oven society were shipped to afghanistan last  year.
when fuel is scarce and expensive, it becomes even harder to heed public health messages about boiling water.
for example, dr. michael götz of switzerland demonstrates solar cooking at various fairs and festivals, serving delicious solar pancakes to stimulate peoples appetites for more solar cooking knowledge.
goal: reduce child mortality waterborne diseases are a primary cause of death among children under the age of five.
their scholarly efforts brought in nearly $50.
another workshop  participant, mr. mpiti, was intrigued by the design possibilities and  constructed several different solar cooker prototypes including an efficient  concentrator-type solar cooker made from cardboard and foil.
contact: kerr-cole sustainable living center,  p.o. box 576, taylor, arizona 85939, usa.
supporting mr. pimentels estimate are the responses from an alliance known as four rotary clubs of bulawayo and the girl guides of zimbabwe.
this design allows for maximum  temperatures of about 250ºc. the advantages of his semi-parabolic design  include lower material cost compared to full parabolic design, easy access to  the cooking pot, and protection of mirrored surfaces from possible food  spillage.
solar cookers deserve recognition as one of these  tools.
of the initial people trained, 65 percent continued to use their solar panel cooker one year later on a regular basis.
single copies are sent free to select libraries and groups overseas.
caring for a sick family member takes time away from  various livelihood activities and death of an adult family member can lead to  loss of income.
goal: combat hiv/aids, malaria and other diseases acute and chronic illnesses are related to many aspect of family social-economic status.
contact: sun ovens international, 39w835 midan drive, elburn, illinois  60119, usa.
the  survey is available online atwww.solarcooking.org/surveys/survey1.htm.
the award recognizes sun ovens international (soi) for exports to  haiti that were made with the assistance of the department of commerce’s  foreign commercial service.
javahar maniar, a retired solar box cooker business owner in baroda,  india, reports that in his career he produced and sold 10,000 solar cookers.
la trame  plans to release versions of the film subtitled in english, spanish and german,  and dubbed in bambara, dioula and mooré.
the guidelines are freely available on the internet:www.solarcooking.org/bkerr/swo.htm.
youll be hearing more as we map out the details and seek support for major undertakings.
the sunstove organization, based in south africa, says it has sold 12,000 of its sunstove® box cookers.
they received a cookit (solar cookers international s panel-style solar cooker) from a friend, as well as plans for various types of solar cookers from scis informational website the solar cooking archive (http://solarcooking.org.
when sewing up the pockets make a fold over tube for a drawstring.
it is a great companion to a solar cooker, allowing for food to cook or stay warm as the sun sets.
on and off women arrive with the filled pots, which are put in the transparent, heat resistant plastic bags and tied closed.
the film is a tool to inform people living in countries with  energy problems about other ways to cook.
hotpots will be sold to users by newly trained micro-retailers.
after this event he  was invited by the rockefeller foundation to cook atop the rca building.
these are mostly cardboard solar panel cookers made by and for the new solar cooks themselves.
the tooling and training required to assemble the ovens in haiti is being provided.
goal: ensure environmental sustainability over half the worlds population relies on wood and charcoal for cooking daily meals.
these efforts culminate with a solar  potluck on the final day.
participants paid half of the materials cost (roughly us $1.40) and brought their own aluminum pots to paint black.
a  swo costs approximately $150 to build.
goal: achieve universal primary education children, particularly girls, start helping at a young age with the  collection of small branches and agricultural residues for use as cooking fuel.
the wonder cushion is made from two large disks of material sewn together  in such a way as to create a base circle, on which the pot rests, and a series  of pockets like the petals on a daisy.
in may 2003 i worked with five afima members to develop a method to  accomplish this.
if your broker holds your securities, your donation can be transferred to: mr. david hayward ag edwards
contact: vincent nnanna, 01 bp 1126, cotonou 00229, benin.
please cite sources whenever possible.
they collected all the dimes in a bucket and donated them tosolar cookers international.
afima now organizes hand  production of cookits.
send contributions to solar cookers international, 1919 21st
when sewing up the pockets make a fold over tube for a  drawstring.
word spread  and local residents began asking how they, too, could become solar cooks.
we proceed to explain how the cookit works and why the black pot is heated up by the energy of the sun.
these pockets, and the base circle, are  filled with an insulating material such as vermiculite, sawdust, feathers,  shredded paper or wool.
word spread and local residents began asking how they, too, could become solar cooks.
workshops began with an explanation of basic solar cooking principles and  cooking tips.
tributes tribute gifts have been given to sci by: spread the light by giving securities by virginia callaghan, sci resource coordinator
further instructions are available for us $5-25 depending on level of detail needed.
ms. yasuko torii, an avid solar cook and promoter, was inspired by this  discovery of early solar cooking research in japan and reports her findings on  mr. goto’s pioneering work.
why is  aluminum foil used?
the vajra foundation (netherlands/nepal, 400 cookers)
this process will provide  students with vocational training and a source of income.
ms. araujo works three hours per day in a local school in exchange for the citys aid.
for those without internet access, hard copies of specific country listings may be obtained by contacting the sci office at the address above, or by e-mail:ramon@solarcookers.org.
africa and europe benin in january 2004 vincent nnanna, an experienced solar cooking  advocate, held a two-day workshop with members ofcanadian world youth who are volunteering in the south-central part of benin near bohicon.
first, ingredients are prepared  and put in the pots.
mission mazahua, in mexico, is  one of the producers of the sunstove®, and it reports 600 cookers made at  its center in mexico.
they experimented with the cookit and a homemade solar box cooker, testing many local foods and making modifications to optimize efficiency.
hiv/aids places an enormous economic and social burden on affected  families.
then participants would build their own solar cooker and paint  their pots black.
women for peace in south africa teach people to make their own cardboard solar cookers.
these  efforts were initiated by the test standard committee at 1997’s
in july 2003 she was supplied with one of the cookers built in her course  and has become a regular user.
two women out of the audience are then asked to repeat the explanations to  show that they are well understood, which sometimes ends up in hilarious  situations with lots of laughter.