find affordable holiday gifts  at any price return to: gift ideas « | home  « |top of page ^ benson, az
all rights reserved.
plants are not just beautiful, but also cheer up any space and even improve air  quality in a home or office space.
pop your plants into colorful ceramic, glass, wood  or even metal containers for a more interesting and personal touch.
inexpensive  terra cotta pots can be painted in bright or metallic-colored paint, large  coffee cups as containers can add a quirky element or baskets can be lined with  plastic and used to hold small pots.
friday, february 10, 2012 sort  by ----
the following sections are available as rss feeds: - opinion - sports - news - obituaries copyright © 2012 san pedro valley news-sun send feedback to webmaster@bensonnews-sun.com.
whether paying a call  on friends or attending a party, host or hostess gifts are another fun way to  spread holiday cheer.
add a photo of the flower your guest can expect and directions onforcing the bulb to the gift tag.
customize the plant to the person: flowers, succulents, cacti, tropicals and even bulbs can make great presents.
plants make excellent gifts and will be a reminder of the  good times you shared.
instead, give them an interesting cactus or  succulent, which needs less frequent care.
when gifting plants: give care: always include care instructions for the plant gift.
relevance recent first oldest first home news sports obits opinion classifieds print ads calendar
most live goods come with suggested light feeding and watering recommendations.
inexpensive terra cotta pots can be painted in bright or metallic-colored paint, large coffee cups as containers can add a quirky element or baskets can be lined with plastic and used to hold small pots.
poinsettia, amaryllis and christmas cactus are seasonal favorites.
plants make excellent gifts and will be a reminder of the good times you shared.
however, unique and meaningful ideas can be a daunting task.
the varieties and combinations are as endless as the  personalities on your gift list.
the holidays are a time for celebrating, reflecting on the past year and exchanging gifts with friends and family.
it is important to match the plant to the  recipient.
for presentation, wrap foil, paper or cellophane around the outside of the container and use fabric bows or raffia to add a finishing touch.
also, keep in mind that specialty  plants like cacti, african violets and orchids may perform better in special  potting mixes.
photos multimedia benson yellow pages contact advertise ara > gift ideas print | | text size giving green: natural ways to spread holiday cheer published: tuesday, october 25, 2011 7:00 pm cdt (ara) -
it is important to match the plant to the recipient.
the  holidays are a time for celebrating, reflecting on the past year and exchanging  gifts with friends and family.
add a photo of the flower your guest can  expect and directions onforcing the bulb to the gift tag.
the varieties and combinations are as endless as the personalities on your gift list.
customize the plant  to the person: flowers, succulents, cacti, tropicals and even bulbs  can make great presents.
whether paying a call on friends or attending a party, host or hostess gifts are another fun way to spread holiday cheer.
for instance, a plant needing daily watering would not make a good gift for a constant traveler.
when gifting plants: give  care: always include care instructions for the plant gift.
pop your plants into colorful ceramic, glass, wood or even metal containers for a more interesting and personal touch.
when hosting a party, offer little mementos for your guests to take home.
when repotting plants yourself, make sure  to use a high-quality potting mix such as miracle-gro potting mix or  miracle-gro organic choice potting mix.
containers make a difference: those boring, plastic pots that house most plants are not very attractive or personal.
when in doubt, ask the nursery for recommendations.
this material may not be broadcast, published, rewritten or redistributed without written permission.
find affordable holiday gifts at any price return to: gift ideas « | home « |top of page ^ benson, az sponsored by: sections - homepage - news - obituaries - sports - opinion - health - online features - entertainment - classifieds - ads from print online features - archives - calendar - buy photos online - guestbook - multi-media - online photo gallery - published legals - syndicated features - special sections - county legals - twitter with us!
view the san pedro valley news-sun'sprivacy policy | terms & conditions .
plants at the party: little gifts from nature go a long way in  spreading the holiday cheer to friends, family and neighbors.
for an artistic friend, try a  terrarium that can be customized to their tastes.
for those with asthma or  allergies, plants like palms, peace lilies and ferns do an excellent job of  improving air quality and filtering out toxins.
for instance, a plant needing daily watering would not make a good  gift for a constant traveler.
the more sophisticated giftee may appreciate a colorful and delicate orchid.
the more sophisticated giftee  may appreciate a colorful and delicate orchid.
gifts that keep giving and growing are a perfect solution.
when hosting a  party, offer little mementos for your guests to take home.
however, unique and meaningful ideas can be a  daunting task.
also, keep in mind that specialty plants like cacti, african violets and orchids may perform better in special potting mixes.
relevance recent first oldest first home news sports obits opinion classifieds print ads calendar  photos multimedia benson yellow pages contact advertise ara > gift ideas giving green: natural ways to spread holiday cheer published: tuesday, october 25, 2011 7:00 pm cdt (ara) -
containers make a  difference: those boring, plastic pots that house most plants are not  very attractive or personal.
try a small terra  cotta pot painted gold and planted with rosemary or thyme and tied with a  lovely ribbon or, maybe small, colorful pots filled with soil and a bulb to add  a pop of spring to the winter months.
if the plant selected does not have these care instructions, ask before leaving the nursery so the recipient can keep this lovely gift green.
try a small terra cotta pot painted gold and planted with rosemary or thyme and tied with a lovely ribbon or, maybe small, colorful pots filled with soil and a bulb to add a pop of spring to the winter months.
most live goods  come with suggested light feeding and watering recommendations.
plants are not just beautiful, but also cheer up any space and even improve air quality in a home or office space.
- benson yellow pages services - advertise with us - contact us - employment - make us your home page - online forms - e-mail updates - subscriber services employee links - webmail - verican admin rss feeds - rss is a format set up for sharing content on the web.
so the recipient can keep this lovely gift green.
poinsettia, amaryllis and christmas cactus are seasonal  favorites.
for an artistic friend, try a terrarium that can be customized to their tastes.
if the plant  selected does not have these care instructions, ask before leaving the nursery
when repotting plants yourself, make sure to use a high-quality potting mix such as miracle-gro potting mix or miracle-gro organic choice potting mix.
even the  most experienced indoor plant grower appreciates a little help.
plants at the party: little gifts from nature go a long way in spreading the holiday cheer to friends, family and neighbors.
even the most experienced indoor plant grower appreciates a little help.
for  presentation, wrap foil, paper or cellophane around the outside of the  container and use fabric bows or raffia to add a finishing touch.
for those with asthma or allergies, plants like palms, peace lilies and ferns do an excellent job of improving air quality and filtering out toxins.
friday, february 10, 2012 sort by ----
instead, give them an interesting cactus or succulent, which needs less frequent care.