formal gardens emphasize their own failures, too.
thin plastic anything is well worth avoiding in pots, however chic.
this wonderful product is  inevitably the latest thing in rose design.
add to this the invention of increasingly garish and  unnatural garden features, and you can assume that senility of the species is  well advanced.
in all honesty, anything really chic usually starts as a sort of accident.
unless a major breakthrough in the construction of really intelligent  flowerpots happens soon, pots have their limits.
given the vast advances in biological science, the desire to play god can’t be far away.
the fun is programmed, the plants  are usually neurotic things that believe their own publicity, even if nobody  else does, and the result is chic atrocity.
in middle age you advance to the wholesome cheapness that only real architectural mediocrity can hope to achieve, eating something requiring a degree in food technology to understand and wearing the aberrations of fashion designers whose shoes are smarter than they are.
terra cotta is generally reliable, and breathes better, allowing some  movement of air and water when the potting mix isn’t impacted, but they  are very heavy and very breakable, and should only be handled by those that  know how.
nevertheless, even a professional cynic who practices regularly will look at something “new” because it is “new”, at least in theory.
centuries’ worth of perfectly good, reliable ceramic pots have  been replaced by seconds’ worth of bland little plastic things.
where the wallet goes, the mind will follow……eventually.
the garden palette is made not only formal but symmetrical, and the mind is as likely to just see the symmetry and ignore it,because it’s too deliberately symmetrical, as it is to look further.
cultural events, art exhibits or gardens, are occasionally  touted as tours de force when they’re really tours de farce.
art suffers from the artist, as well as the aficionado.
if nothing makes you happier than to have  a plaster something-or-other sitting in the ivy, please have one.
the pot is a potential prison.
have what youlike, not what is thrust upon you.
chic gardening now produces images which are related to formal gardening, and require an army to grow and maintain.
it also achieves the straitjacket effect of preventing much else being done.
in old age you  progress still further into the depths of lifestyle among the restful shades of  places designed specifically for those who need to be containerized.
given the vast advances in biological science, the  desire to play god can’t be far away.
a life sentence, or a death sentence, in fact, if the gardener isn’t careful.
it’s interesting that modern design tends to come in outcrops.
the need to have the latest of  everything is probably the best possible example of a social inferiority  complex applied in practice.
between modern sculptures,  charming bric-a-brac and entirely forgettable odds and sods, the only thing  that can be safely said is that it prevents cluttering up the garden with  plants.
art suffers from the  artist, as well as the aficionado.
he wondered if willow pattern  would be revered 100 years from 1888.
that they lack substance is obvious, but look at what’s happened.
we appreciate….sometimes, if we can.
whole generations are raised in the squalid piles of concrete we are told are normal human habitations called cities.
you then progress to living in something very  like a necro diner eating slop amid that original lifeless modern supermarket  look most of the baby boom generation grew up in, and wearing the results of  advanced alcoholism.
in middle age you advance to the wholesome cheapness that  only real architectural mediocrity can hope to achieve, eating something  requiring a degree in food technology to understand and wearing the aberrations  of fashion designers whose shoes are smarter than they are.
the mental restrictions are arguably much worse, and they're the basis of garden art as it is now called, blending with an unspeakable environment.
some pots are truly useless; the cheapo variety, thin black plastic, are genuinely dangerous for the plant.
anyone can be persuaded they know what they're doing if it's  banal enough.
chic gardening tends to reflect this inferior thinking.
the  lavender might well be the next mingus, and the petunia a better motorist than  most.
unless a major breakthrough in the construction of really intelligent flowerpots happens soon, pots have their limits.
the serried ranks of daffodils were an icon once, but even then they were set amid other features.
it will be written up for centuries afterward as a symbol of the great  artistic masters of the day.
sometimes unkindly and  inaccurately referred to as train set planning, the hideous procedure of  neatness settles in.
a car salesman earnestly explaining the  benefits of all wheel drive to a petunia.
art is often misrepresented as something it  simply isn’t.
the art analogy isn’t entirely misplaced.
the black spot factory seems to be much the same, and the thing may or may not flower properly.
you could make a fortune in chat show appearances discussing  what’s likely to happen to the plumber when the agapanthus realized he  was disconnecting the outlet from the bathroom.
entertaining as the sight of a tree devouring a suburb is, surely we could do more to enhance the life of the tree than just allowing it to play with any old rubbish.
it is a process of acceptance, the valuing of things as  what they represent, not what they actually are.
however, there are some chic gardening motifs that deserve to be  questioned: the modern desert with flowerpots.
they can also make small plants out of big plants, and do enough damage to make repotting a real problem.
the willow pattern has since degenerated into a  rather tacky imitation of its original self, a mere series of smears under the  glaze, no life or personality in them.
uniformity is a rarity in gardens these days, and with good reason.
it  is also unique for its ability to completely defeat its own purpose.
where the wallet goes, the mind will  follow……eventually.
the pot garden can be a lot of fun, and can be done truly brilliantly.
care to guess what 90% of chic is, at any given moment in history?
one of the problems with chic anything is that it’s usually chic devoid of practicalities.
consider the possibilities of one of your more bovine acquaintances trying  to tame a jazz-playing lavender.
people don’t have the space to play with, and they want to look at more than one plant.
big pots should be handled by those who are insured.
â  the mental restrictions are arguably  much worse, and they're the basis of garden art as it is now called, blending  with an unspeakable environment.
the formal  styles are out of fashion these days, and one of the reasons for that is that  they are unbelievably expensive, and require a technical expertise that few  people either have or can afford.
i got lucky and found an old piece that actually looks like real willow pattern.)
one of the problems with chic anything is that it’s usually chic  devoid of practicalities.
if you live in a place where you have scope to design, remember that you might want to design something else sometime, too.
fake chic is usually the result of some sleazy desire to flog merchandise,  and it shows.
thin plastic anything is well worth avoiding in pots, however  chic.
small pots are for small plants.
there is a theory which i’ve been spreading that formal gardens are a sort of efficient masochism.
vote upvote downshareprintflag
on of the big selling points of  anything is that it’s “new”.
indoor chic size does matter.
the equation is "plant first, decorative values of pot last".
if you want to be an chic gardener, make sure it’s your idea of chic, not the marketing industry’s latest attempt to prove it’s ever seen a plastic daisy.
fake chic is usually the result of some sleazy desire to flog merchandise, and it shows.
venus rising from the styrofoam doesn’t strike me as  particularly inspiring, or inspired.
on of the big selling points of anything is that it’s “new”.
the "spanish look" can give you a hernia.
a  plant that looks like a hamburger or a can of soup isn’t impossible,  it’s just that nobody with sufficient lack of taste and class has yet  evolved to produce them.
so you see the beginnings of neo garden art.
anyone can be persuaded they know what they're doing if it's banal enough.
the roots will cook with a bit of help from the black plastic, if left in the sun.
in old age you progress still further into the depths of lifestyle among the restful shades of places designed specifically for those who need to be containerized.
the serried ranks of daffodils were an icon once, but even then they  were set amid other features.
(i’m actually eating anzac biscuits out of a willow pattern saucer as i write… fate, eh?
they don’t have credit cards so they can go to the nursery and buy their own, so they’ve learned to make do without.
my father was an industrial designer, among other things, so i’m not  quite so impressed with this mongrelization of ideas.
chic gardening now produces images which are  related to formal gardening, and require an army to grow and maintain.
a “piece” will appear, a “feature” like  a table setting, will slither into the postage stamp sized garden area.
there is a theory which i’ve been spreading that formal gardens are a  sort of efficient masochism.
in the arts, chic is normally a synonym for insufferable.
there is an interminable supply of little things to hang about the garden, and designer planters for that primary school look.
venus rising from the styrofoam doesn’t strike me as particularly inspiring, or inspired.
a car salesman earnestly explaining the benefits of all wheel drive to a petunia.
the willow pattern has since degenerated into a rather tacky imitation of its original self, a mere series of smears under the glaze, no life or personality in them.
it has been praised more than the latest hit movie, and credited with saving lives and starting a few cults, and it’s still rubbish.
terra cotta is generally reliable, and breathes better, allowing some movement of air and water when the potting mix isn’t impacted, but they are very heavy and very breakable, and should only be handled by those that know how.
your sedge getting arrested for shoplifting.
they arethe incarnate form of garden  perfectionism.
a “piece” will appear, a “feature” like a table setting, will slither into the postage stamp sized garden area.
the pitiful spectacle of a pot bound plant is so familiar and so obvious that i’m wary of mentioning it, but pots will kill plants as efficiently as neglect.
everything ever designed as a consumer item usually turns out to be substandard.
you can start in a life of soap  operatic innocence in your gothic apartment eating gruel and wearing things  that look anonymous in crowds.
i was reading him almost exactly a hundred years later, and i  can see what he meant.
my father was an industrial designer, among other things, so i’m not quite so impressed with this mongrelization of ideas.
in terms of the garden, it’s also usually chic  lacking anything useful or tolerable.
in gardening, this syndrome has branched out  recklessly into chic gardening, the pursuit of novelty at any price.
otherwise most of this stuff is about as useful as a whale in a bathtub, and  far less interesting.
formality uber alles.
everything ever designed as a consumer item usually turns out to be  substandard.
a few plants missing is a conceptual disaster.
like wearing a tuxedo to breakfast, there is a  degree of “demanding self image” placed on the gardener.
chic gardening takes advantage of both the marketing and the fact that anything old enough is usually considered “art”, however bloody awful it is.
like wearing a tuxedo to breakfast, there is a degree of “demanding self image” placed on the gardener.
between modern sculptures, charming bric-a-brac and entirely forgettable odds and sods, the only thing that can be safely said is that it prevents cluttering up the garden with plants.
it is a process of acceptance, the valuing of things as what they represent, not what they actually are.
jerome k jerome, author of three men in a boat, (if you  haven’t read it, rush out immediately and get a copy.
weight is a real issue, particularly after watering.
it will be written up for centuries afterward as a symbol of the great artistic masters of the day.
in the arts, chic is normally a synonym  for insufferable.
that they lack substance is obvious, but look at what’s  happened.
even the fertilizer trade has its uncharacteristic chic moments,  particularly with indoor pot plants.
care to guess what  90% of chic is, at any given moment in history?
your sedge getting arrested for  shoplifting.
if this unavoidable eyesore is a  plant, it will inevitably be the most daring thing in gardening since plastic  daisies.
they arethe incarnate form of garden perfectionism.
nor is it impossible that something with leaves like van gogh’swheatfield with crows will be grown for its rustic charm, and dear tiny little flowers that look like price tags.
(i’m actually eating anzac biscuits out of a willow pattern saucer as  i write… fate, eh?
there  will be an architectural renaissance, followed by a décor revolution,  followed by cheesy packaging innovations.
centuries’ worth of perfectly good, reliable ceramic pots have been replaced by seconds’ worth of bland little plastic things.
anyone who’s ever tried to unravel a pot bound plant knows the  story.
hence  the remains of some gruesome excess will sit in the garden for centuries, in  some cases, protected by archaeologists and other masochists.
cookery is a case in point.
a bit of incinerated mammoth translated into a major industry and the cause of more sincere cursing than any commercial ever run.
nothing else will...) wrote about the domestic  horrors of his day, including the revered willow pattern in much the same way.
as mentioned above, there are plenty of  arguments in favor of at least looking at design ideas through a computer.
you wear by now only what’s comfortable.
as mentioned above, there are plenty of arguments in favor of at least looking at design ideas through a computer.
while forgivable in anyone with any talent under about 25,  the conceit is a bit much for the art lover.
the idea of garden décor has been a great boon to those that sell garden décor, and almost nobody else.
as  discussed above, the normal version of this is tiresome décor, soggy  management-seminar level orientation to design concepts, and a supply of third  rate materials.
primulas able to singthe hallelujah chorus are only a punnet away.
so it follows that chic gardening is going to be a horror of epic vistas.
an array of plants  in formal rows looks great en masse, in a large setting, but it’s not the  same, jammed against the garage, sandwiched between the car and the hose.
primulas  able to singthe hallelujah chorus are only a punnet away.
even the shapes are arcane.
sometimes unkindly and inaccurately referred to as train set planning, the hideous procedure of neatness settles in.
if nothing else it will explain england to you.
they can also make small  plants out of big plants, and do enough damage to make repotting a real  problem.
i was reading him almost exactly a hundred years later, and i can see what he meant.
i know they’re not new.
some plants must have large pots, and you'll be astonished to hear that most of the more fashionable big pots are useless as anything but shop displays.
he wondered if the commonplaces of his day would become hallowed a hundred  years from then.
the “new” rose  is a transparent mix of older cultivars, and the name, “smarmy goo  goo” lacks a certain poise.
name: comment: read more hubs by paul wallis contact paul wallis copyright © 2012 hubpages inc. and respective owners.
usually  it will be known by some restrained market description like cosmic phallus, or  credit card symbiote, and look like the remains of a car accident.
an array of plants in formal rows looks great en masse, in a large setting, but it’s not the same, jammed against the garage, sandwiched between the car and the hose.
you could make a fortune in chat show appearances discussing what’s likely to happen to the plumber when the agapanthus realized he was disconnecting the outlet from the bathroom.
people have every right to their own aesthetic values, and i’ll never say otherwise.
in gardening, the equivalent is a sort of grow your own cliche, and that's  where chic gardening really hits top gear.
actually putting a bit more absurdity into modern life does have a few  things to recommend it.
in terms of the garden, it’s also usually chic lacking anything useful or tolerable.
virtually everything in a normal household can be lethal with a little  effort.
but it's growing more chiropractors than plants.
it also achieves  the straitjacket effect of preventing much else being done.
add to this the invention of increasingly garish and unnatural garden features, and you can assume that senility of the species is well advanced.
you eat a  balanced diet of medications and occasionally something which might  theoretically be digestible.
no, not a supply of cars being fixed in the back yard, but a programmed garden, growing according to a plan.
chic gardening generally dumps large amounts  of new looks, new shapes, new products, and new books about itself onto the  gardener.
the “new” rose is a transparent mix of older cultivars, and the name, “smarmy goo goo” lacks a certain poise.
it's just that i'm pretty sure  the basic idea of gardening isn't to provide a wreath for the funeral of human  aesthetics.
if you don't happen to have a palace of versailles, consider other options.
even the fertilizer trade has its uncharacteristic chic moments, particularly with indoor pot plants.
if nothing else it  will explain england to you.
ergo the garden lover is usually a bit less than impressed with the normal  run of chic everythings, even in the normal forms.
by paul wallis starting with the basic premise that what people grow in their own gardens is their own business, it has to be said that both style and technology intrude if they get the chance.
nor does a garden shed looking like the  sistine chapel and costing as much necessarily transport me to valhalla.
i got lucky and found an old piece that  actually looks like real willow pattern.)
virtually everything in a normal household can be lethal with a little effort.
submit a comment members and guests sign in or sign up and post using a hubpages account.
you can start in a life of soap operatic innocence in your gothic apartment eating gruel and wearing things that look anonymous in crowds.
pot plants in unsuitable containers can get sick pretty easily.
seems to me that you might as well start by making yourself comfortable, and simply ignore the rest of the process.
nor is it impossible that something with leaves like  van gogh’swheatfield with crows will be grown for its rustic  charm, and dear tiny little flowers that look like price tags.
plants naturally don’t grow in pots.
chic gardening,  like commercials, works on the predictability as the garden's raison d'etre,  believe it or not.
actually putting a bit more absurdity into modern life does have a few things to recommend it.
none of which has prevented the daily flood of consumer goods being rammed delicately into everyone’s lives.
the garden palette is made not  only formal but symmetrical, and the mind is as likely to just see the symmetry  and ignore it,because it’s too deliberately symmetrical, as it  is to look further.
the lavender might well be the next mingus, and the petunia a better motorist than most.
ideas have to grow, too.
if nothing makes you happier than to have a plaster something-or-other sitting in the ivy, please have one.
i know they’re not  new.
a life sentence, or a death  sentence, in fact, if the gardener isn’t careful.
hence the remains of some gruesome excess will sit in the garden for centuries, in some cases, protected by archaeologists and other masochists.
you then progress to living in something very like a necro diner eating slop amid that original lifeless modern supermarket look most of the baby boom generation grew up in, and wearing the results of advanced alcoholism.
by paul wallis how to avoid getting planted by fashionable gardening starting with the basic premise that what people grow in their own gardens  is their own business, it has to be said that both style and technology intrude  if they get the chance.
the roots will cook with a bit of help from  the black plastic, if left in the sun.
but- there’s something irritating about the predictable.
better quality pots are thicker, with a feel of real durability.
it will be  made by some hitherto unknown genius called gushette maximus, and be duly  revered as a breakthrough in domestic life, the entrance of culture onto the  previously barren stage of human existence.
entertaining as  the sight of a tree devouring a suburb is, surely we could do more to enhance  the life of the tree than just allowing it to play with any old rubbish.
otherwise most of this stuff is about as useful as a whale in a bathtub, and far less interesting.
from predictable to dull as a fence post is a very small step.
it’s just that the  human race brings this unspeakable irritant with itself wherever it goes.
the  slightly prudish garden statuary has been supplanted byobjé ts de anonymous, personality-less things with no known purpose or aesthetic
nevertheless, even a professional cynic who practices regularly will look at  something “new” because it is “new”, at least in theory.
the sedge could become a sort of clumpy robin hood, and the agapanthus could make the most wanted list look a bit nicer, but is that all we expect from designer plants, to merely make do with suburbia as a venue?
therein the essence of motifs.
people have every right to their own aesthetic values, and i’ll never
the pitiful spectacle of a pot  bound plant is so familiar and so obvious that i’m wary of mentioning it,  but pots will kill plants as efficiently as neglect.
some pots are truly useless; the cheapo variety, thin black plastic, are  genuinely dangerous for the plant.
chic  gardening invariably includes a range of pots which are probably better for  attracting fungi and diseases than growing anything but excuses.
it will be made by some hitherto unknown genius called gushette maximus, and be duly revered as a breakthrough in domestic life, the entrance of culture onto the previously barren stage of human existence.
weight is a real  issue, particularly after watering.
using a lot of whizzbang nutrients is a great way of growing molds and fungi, and with a little effort a healthy crop of mysterious afflictions will keep you very busy and help keep your asthma and hay fever feeling appreciated.
you can  slaughter all your plants by weakening a pot plant to the extent it gets a  disease and passes it on to the others.
but… does one want to live among the idiocies of consumerism?
anything not covered by case law or statutes can drag on for years.
it’s just that the human race brings this unspeakable irritant with itself wherever it goes.
chic gardening invariably includes a range of pots which are probably better for attracting fungi and diseases than growing anything but excuses.
he wondered if willow pattern would be revered 100 years from 1888.
the formal styles are out of fashion these days, and one of the reasons for that is that they are unbelievably expensive, and require a technical expertise that few people either have or can afford.
the need to have the latest of everything is probably the best possible example of a social inferiority complex applied in practice.
there will be an architectural renaissance, followed by a décor revolution, followed by cheesy packaging innovations.
a few plants missing is a  conceptual disaster.
none of which has prevented the daily flood of consumer goods being rammed  delicately into everyone’s lives.
the main selling point remains that it’s new, not that it’s any sort of actual improvement.
chic gardening, like commercials, works on the predictability as the garden's raison d'etre, believe it or not.
there is an interminable supply of little things to hang about the garden,  and designer planters for that primary school look.
arguably no form of artistic pretension could survive without it.
however, there are some chic gardening motifs that deserve to be questioned: the modern desert with flowerpots.
the main selling point remains that it’s new,  not that it’s any sort of actual improvement.
terms of use privacy policy (0.89 sec) hubpages livingworking
using a lot of whizzbang nutrients is a  great way of growing molds and fungi, and with a little effort a healthy crop  of mysterious afflictions will keep you very busy and help keep your asthma and  hay fever feeling appreciated.
art is often misrepresented as something it simply isn’t.
privet  hedges able to park the car and lawns able to mow themselves while conducting  ballet classes may be safely assumed to be on their way.
if  you don't happen to have a palace of versailles, consider other options.
if you want to be an chic gardener, make sure it’s your idea  of chic, not the marketing industry’s latest attempt to prove it’s  ever seen a plastic daisy.
(metal planters are equally deadly, and  dangerous to you, too, if heated up enough.)
there’s an insidious tendency on the part of the industry to intrude with novelties, gadgets, and the sort of hack advertising that makes people think they can’t live without them.
they don’t have credit  cards so they can go to the nursery and buy their own, so they’ve learned  to make do without.
some plants must have large pots, and you'll  be astonished to hear that most of the more fashionable big pots are useless as  anything but shop displays.
the idea of garden décor has been a great boon to those that sell  garden décor, and almost nobody else.
while forgivable in anyone with any talent under about 25, the conceit is a bit much for the art lover.
arguably no  form of artistic pretension could survive without it.
nothing else will...) wrote about the domestic horrors of his day, including the revered willow pattern in much the same way.
if this unavoidable eyesore is a plant, it will inevitably be the most daring thing in gardening since plastic daisies.
chic gardening generally dumps large amounts of new looks, new shapes, new products, and new books about itself onto the gardener.
like pop art, it has no depth and no basis.
jerome k jerome, author of three men in a boat, (if you haven’t read it, rush out immediately and get a copy.
you eat a balanced diet of medications and occasionally something which might theoretically be digestible.
usually it will be known by some restrained market description like cosmic phallus, or credit card symbiote, and look like the remains of a car accident.
you can slaughter all your plants by weakening a pot plant to the extent it gets a disease and passes it on to the others.
this wonderful product is inevitably the latest thing in rose design.
as discussed above, the normal version of this is tiresome décor, soggy management-seminar level orientation to design concepts, and a supply of third rate materials.
the sedge could become a sort of clumpy robin hood, and the agapanthus  could make the most wanted list look a bit nicer, but is that all we expect  from designer plants, to merely make do with suburbia as a venue?
consider the possibilities of one of your more bovine acquaintances trying to tame a jazz-playing lavender.
in gardening, the equivalent is a sort of grow your own cliche, and that's where chic gardening really hits top gear.
in gardening, this syndrome has branched out recklessly into chic gardening, the pursuit of novelty at any price.
the culture creates the art, which is rather a pity.
he wondered if the commonplaces of his day would become hallowed a hundred years from then.
a plant that looks like a hamburger or a can of soup isn’t impossible, it’s just that nobody with sufficient lack of taste and class has yet evolved to produce them.
anyone who’s ever tried to unravel a pot bound plant knows the story.
it has been praised more than the  latest hit movie, and credited with saving lives and starting a few cults, and  it’s still rubbish.
there’s an insidious tendency  on the part of the industry to intrude with novelties, gadgets, and the sort of  hack advertising that makes people think they can’t live without them.
people  don’t have the space to play with, and they want to look at more than one  plant.
privet hedges able to park the car and lawns able to mow themselves while conducting ballet classes may be safely assumed to be on their way.
all of the above is expensive to maintain, repair, and operate.
the black spot factory seems to be much the  same, and the thing may or may not flower properly.
it's just that i'm pretty sure the basic idea of gardening isn't to provide a wreath for the funeral of human aesthetics.
repetition makes the mind less interested.
the fun is programmed, the plants are usually neurotic things that believe their own publicity, even if nobody else does, and the result is chic atrocity.
they were designed to cater for large areas, like the palace of versailles, and the smaller chic versions tend to look window-box-like.
chic gardening  takes advantage of both the marketing and the fact that anything old enough is  usually considered “art”, however bloody awful it is.
vote upvote downshareprintflagwas this hub ...?
seems to me that you might as well start by making yourself comfortable,  and simply ignore the rest of the process.
whole generations are  raised in the squalid piles of concrete we are told are normal human  habitations called cities.
a bit of incinerated mammoth translated into a  major industry and the cause of more sincere cursing than any commercial ever  run.
as land sizes relative to buildings shrink, and the laughable mentalities of those who design living space becomes more infected with the belief that everyone lives in a sitcom with compulsory squalor, the garden has become something which is seen more as art deco than a design feature.
if that isn’t warning enough, consider: 1.
they can also be rather an atavism, something out of its time.
the slightly prudish garden statuary has been supplanted byobjé ts de anonymous, personality-less things with no known purpose or aesthetic
they were designed to cater for large areas, like the palace of versailles,  and the smaller chic versions tend to look window-box-like.
the  thunderous rote praise is usually an omen of the mediocrity to come.
that’s a fairly good analysis of the design process.
as land sizes relative to buildings  shrink, and the laughable mentalities of those who design living space becomes  more infected with the belief that everyone lives in a sitcom with compulsory  squalor, the garden has become something which is seen more as art deco than a  design feature.
the thunderous rote praise is usually an omen of the mediocrity to come.
ergo the garden lover is usually a bit less than impressed with the normal run of chic everythings, even in the normal forms.
if you live in a  place where you have scope to design, remember that you might want to design  something else sometime, too.
nor does a garden shed looking like the sistine chapel and costing as much necessarily transport me to valhalla.
it is also unique for its ability to completely defeat its own purpose.
no, not a supply of cars being fixed in the back yard, but a programmed  garden, growing according to a plan.
other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners.
cultural events, art exhibits or gardens, are occasionally touted as tours de force when they’re really tours de farce.
(metal planters are equally deadly, and dangerous to you, too, if heated up enough.)