and if you don't already have my button...
skip the bottled water and get yourself a nice stainless steel bottle like earthlust.
and those aren't even natural.
do you have any other you can share with us?
i think it is great when someone can find a cool way to reuse things!
remember this is mandatory and you must complete this before  submitting additional entries.
i am a chocoholic, i could eat it all day every day.
there are truly so many great shops over on etsy, especially eco-friendly  ones.
i actually used to this in the beginning of the school year, not sure why i stopped.
phthalates have been linked to liver cancer and kidney  damage in some animals.
win earth's  sweet pleasures kindly sent me a 1/2 pound box ofrich rainforest dark with  walnuts to send to one lucky winner.
while most parts can be washed in the dishwasher (except for the valve), i  prefer to wash my cups by hand.
everything about his bag is recycled!
that was definitely not the case here.
the flowers are made of pink recycled  suede, the branches of cream recycled leather and the bag of brown recycled  leather.
solution: make them ourselves and share the love with the world!"i've built up a decent amount of their makeup during that time.
mandatory entry visit the earth's sweet pleasures  site, take a look around at all the pages and come back and tell me something  i did not mention above.
win ecostore usa is giving 1 winner a $25.00 gift certificate to their online  store.
i was sent a pair of baby moccasins to borrow so that i could get an up close and personal look at them.
as for the yogurt, i might be stuck with it for a while.
so sorry for the mix up and thanks!!
they have laundry care, pet care dish cleaners, household  cleaners and so much more.
- visit matthew's puzzle
"our mission is to focus on individual health issues.
theyare made from high quality #304 food grade stainless steel, which is naturally safe unlinedand all paints used are non-toxic.
one of my green goals for 2009 was to pack waste free lunches for my son.
now they have a great selection ofeco-friendly bags: laptop jackets, sleeves and messenger style laptop bags and also totes and shoulder bags.
the come back and tell me which two products you would like to try.
i was pleasantly surprised that it was so much better.
(this might be used for an extra entry!)
i was sent a pair of baby moccasins to  borrow so that i could get an up close and personal look at them.
so how do we get away from the single-serve addiction ?
i received theb ody wash, shampoo and lotion and immediately  started using them on the boys.
now i just have to work on the cheese sticks, yogurt and juice.
there are lots of others out there you can try aswell.
i decided that  the best thing to do for my boys was to switch tostainless steel sippy cups.
extra entries - follow me on blogger or subscribe to my rss feed - subscribe via e-mail.
the pair i  looked at was the same style as these, only a darker brown.
all fabrics used for the greensmart  bottles 2 bags are derived from certified 100% post-consumer recycled pet water  and soda bottles.
he  definitely had the most mildeczema of the three.
i also like the butterfly design.
there is a sleeve to keep drinks cold and protect the cup.
the most talked about is bisphenol-a (bpa) but there are others to avoid as well like deha and phthalates.
there are no chemicals in the stainless steel so no chemical can leach into the beverages.
when i first joined the "green movement", the thought of cloth pads truly grossed me out
- add my earth day blog  party button to your sidebar.
apple blossoms infographic: 7 burglary facts you have never heard... enhance your wardrobe with body bark luxurious top... the problem with the news industry green giveaway friday 4/20 i'm enjoying the spring weather wordless wednesday: ice cream! wild kratts: predator power dvd review clean off your counters with the rubbermaid hidden... celebrate earth day with bbc #giveaway green giveaway friday 4/13 help make "wishes delivered" with dunkin' donuts #...
one last thing i want to mention is the bottle opening.
you don't have to settle for just a plain stainless finish anymore, unless you want to of course.
while our grocery store has a decent natural/organic foods section, there really isn't any candy in it.
this gets you two  entries, so leave two comments.
however in 2007, with recycled materials now readily available, they committed to converting all items they make to green material composition.
finny’s greens eco-savvy onesie under the nile doll from green baby bliss posted by marianna nichols  at 5:00 am 4 comments links to this post labels: green giveaways green toys gardening kit review & giveaway i really think it is great when companies take the initiative to make  things out recycled materials.
sure enough, i look out onto the deck and there they are.
i will not  share your e-mail address with anyone, it will strictly be used to notify you  if you win.
so i know i am a tad late on this post, but hey, the day isn't over yet!
winner has 48 hours to claim  their prize otherwise a new winner will be picked.
i do recommend you get their nail  polish remover to go with it as regular remover doesn't work very well.
win one lucky reader  will win not one, not two, but three of the safe sippy!!
i also want to mention that a little  goes a long way with the shampoo and body wash.
all of the ecostore usa products  are free fromparabens, sls, phosphates, chlorine, propylene glycol and other  chemicals that pose dangers to our bodies and our environment.
do you have a green giveaway on your blog that i missed?
well as the company states,the safe sippy is spill proof but  cannot be 100% drip proof otherwise it would be hard for children to drink from  it.
it is so easy to get into the habit of using single-serve foods.
- add my green mama's pad button to your sidebar or add green mama's pad to your blogroll - follow me ontwitter and tweet this giveaway.
here is something i had no idea about.
they were always pretty uncomfortable for me, especially after child birth (which is kind of ironic).
of course let's not forget  the best part: "no nasty chemicals".
-  become a fan onfacebook.
and i really can't stress  enough how comfortable cloth pads are.
we do still have some bpa-free plastic cups, but i’m trying to gradually phase those out as who knows what bad chemical will be found in them tomorrow.
because it does not interact with the foods and fluids it comes into contact with like plastic does.
do you have any tips for packing a waste-free lunch?
the forest stewardship council is a non-profit organization devoted to encouraging the responsible management of the world’s forests.
source:  forest stewardship council posted by marianna nichols  at 12:14 am 1 comments links to this post labels: fsc certified, green glossary monday, april 20, 2009 going green: reusable feminine products since i have a lunapads giveaway going on, i thought now would be a good  time to elaborate more on reusable feminine products.
the forest stewardship council is a non-profit organization devoted to  encouraging the responsible management of the world’s forests.
your email must  validate or it will not count.
- stumble  this and comment with your id.
when the boys are out of the bath i love cuddling up with them and  smelling their hair.
and a cool feature in their store is they will tell you  how many bottles were used to make the bag.
william actually had a school field trip to the police station  this morning, so i dropped him off for that.
why does she do this?"the  pieces i recycle are headed for the landfill, or in bulk rag shipments to third  world countries.
deha is linked to negative effects on the liver, kidney, spleen, bone formation and weight.
do you ever wonder what happens to all those plastic bottles that you recycle?
since we are talking about waste-free lunches this week, i thought it would also be a good time to take a look at reusable water bottles.
i am more than happy with  all of them.
so it is important for me  to use washes and lotions that are easy on the chemicals and therefor easy  their skin.
it also seemed like the liquid flowed much easier through the spout.
this giveaway  is open to us residents 18+ only and will end on sunday, may 3rd at 11:59pm  est.
posted by marianna nichols  at 1:00 am 256 comments links to this post labels: earth's sweet pleasures, organic fudge, product review green glossary: fsc certified products bearing the forest stewardship council (fsc) logo, which  guarantees that the wood from a certified well-managed forest, are available  across the world from a variety of mills, manufacturers, and distributors.
everyone is different and therefor your experiences may differ from mine.
so i was nervous that themoon cup would be the same way.
very rich and creamy and literally melts in your mouth.
if you think you want to give a  menstrual cup a try, irecommend visiting this informative review.
safe sippy to try out.
why does she do this?"the pieces i recycle are headed for the landfill, or in bulk rag shipments to third world countries.
mandatory entry visit the greensmart site and tell me something that i  haven't mentioned here.
there it is hanging out and looking cute!
i love that thelunapads let you just change the liner as needed instead of changing the entire bad.
for example, thehorizontal  messenger bag uses 30 bottles which saved energy equal to 236 laptop hours.
please remember that this is mandatory and you must complete this before  submitting any extra entries.
this review is based on my opinions and my experiences only.
this week's theme is about police  safety, 911 and strangers.
you can  also find other baby shoes there, like thesepretty pink maryjanes.
she also has tips ondifferent folds for inserting that you can try.
i've had my glad rags for a while and they are still going strong.
posted by marianna nichols  at 12:30 am 279 comments links to this  post labels: ecostore usa, giveaway, product review sunday, april 19, 2009 closed greensmart bottles to bags giveaway!
then visit thegreensmart store and tell me which jacket  or sleeve you would choose if you won.
fsc sets high standards that ensure forestry is practiced in an environmentally responsible, socially beneficial, and economically viable way.
bpa is a synthetic estrogen used to harden polycarbonate plastics.
then come back and tell me which one you  entered.
they have natural  cosmetics, hair care, body care and lip care and all at reasonable prices.
believe me, i know it can sound gross and be intimidating.
"gr een toys inc. makes an awesome line of classic children’s toys constructed from recycled plastic and other environmentally friendly materials.
leave both in one comment.
if you are wondering, pet is plastic #1.
if you think you want to give a menstrual cup a try, irecommend visiting this informative review.
the soild come sin dehyrdated  "bricks" that you simply add water to and then atch them exand.
in the last few years there has been a lot of talk about the dangers of  chemicals found in plastic baby bottles and sippy cups.
extra entries (please leave a separate comment for each) - follow me on blogger or subscribe to my rss feed - subscribe via e-mail.
firstly, they are adorable, just look at  them!
it lathers really nicely with only a small amount; i'd say i use about dime sized portion.
then  leave a comment here letting me know you did it.
the opening on theearthlust was better fit for my mouth and so i didn't have any spillage issues.
good for the entire month of april 2009.
his  eczema is quite bad and my pediatrician said what he has is hereditary and  there actually isn't anything i can use to cure it.
the safe sippy feels so much lighter than that and yet it holds about 2 more ounces.
the  uppers are made from repurposed suede and the soles are made from new non-skid  suede.
that was a long and hot day
i plan on purchasing another one for luke so they each have one and i can finally toss the few plastic cups that we have left.
so i was really excited when i foundecostore usa and their natural baby care products.
i think i am going to pick up some more cucumber and zucchini seeds and just plant them directly outside once there is no more overnight frost.
the seeds are basil, sunflower and zinia and  they give you more than enough in the packets.
however it is very difficult to find candies that are not made with high fructose corn syrup and lots of artificial ingredients.
posted by marianna nichols  at 12:27 am 234 comments links to this  post labels: bottles 2 bags, giveaway, greensmart kaboogie repurposed leather moccasins review
just be careful  when pouring because it can come out fast!
(the photos i took  were fuzzy).
- stumble this and comment with your id.
if the school or place they are being used has recycling, well then it isn't quite as bad.
- follow me ontwitter and tweet this giveaway.
so i can  contact you.
however in the several weeks i've been using these, that has happened much less.
here i thought i was doing great with the napkin, spoon and reusable sandwich container.
safe sippy is shaped like a straw because  traditional wide spouts that are on many sippy cups have been found by experts  to cause speech development problems.
then leave a comment here letting me know you did it.
ok, i fixed it yet again.
i was thrilled when kate from the shopping mama asked me to write a guest  article about "green" shopping for kids.
they initially didn't look too good, but i kept watering them and caring for them in hopes that by some miracle i could revive them.
posted by marianna nichols  at 12:50 am 179 comments links to this  post labels: honeybee gardens, makeup, product review tuesday, april 21, 2009 green mama's pad goes shopping!
in addition to the  fact that they use recycled plastic, their packaging is made from recycled  cardboard and is 100% recyclable itself.
i  read this entire thing before making my purchase and ithelped me decided on the  moon cup.
you must leave your  e-mail address in your comment(s)
they are so darn convenient - just toss them in and go.
you must leave your e-mail  address in your comment(s)
the process of turning a used water bottle into a bag is quite interesting and you can read all about ithere.
plus their overnight ones are awesome - no leaks!
my kaboogie review, visit the  kaboogie store and leave a comment on my review telling me your favorite item.
they also damage rodent reproductive systems and there is concern that they do the same to human infant boys.
the handle makes  it easy for little hands to hold and comes off when no longer needed.
very rich and creamy  and literally melts in your mouth.
- blog about this giveaway  with a link to green mama's pad and greensmart.
with my 2 year old twins both in speech  therapy, i’m taking that point very seriously.
by purchasing our fudge you helpsustain the rainforest where cacao trees are grown in the shade of the canopy.
i finished up the few i had left and then when the grocery store was having a sale on organic applesauce in big jars, i stocked up.
the first cycle was a learning  one, but by the second cycle i had figured out how to insert it properly and  now i don't even notice it is there.
that's saying a lotfor me because i am sensitive to scents.
mandatory entry visit the safe sippy site then come back and comment with something you learned that i did not mention here.
but i knew i had to  choose just one because attempting to let them both try it would lead to  fighting over who it belongs to.
i  plan on purchasing another one for luke so they each have one
"at honeybee gardens, we believe natural, healthy body care  and cosmetics should be affordable.
- add my  green mama's pad button to your sidebar or add green mama's pad to your blogroll - add my earth day blog party button to your sidebar.
the first thing i noticed was the scent -
i just wish i had found that out sooner.
so i hope you can maybe consider trying out some reusable menstrual products.
when they use other cups it sounds like they have to suck really hard to  get the drink out.
so i was very excited when i was contacted by the mom behindkaboogie!
the fudge  with walnuts is their bestseller.
i have't worn lipliner in a very long time
we're not rich and we want good products.
the most talked about  is bisphenol-a (bpa) but there are others to avoid as well like deha and  phthalates.
so i have a huge favor to ask of everyone!
i  started off with theirwater-based nail polish.
what makes surfs sweets so great?
we all spend way too much money for bottled water when we can get water at home for free and with no waste!earthlust recently sent me one of their 20 oz stainless steel bottles to test.
in honor of earth month, receive free shipping on  all orders of $25.00 more.
if you comment here telling me  what you like, you may just earn extra entries into some of my earth day blog  party giveaways!
it seems to me that the trend with natural cosmetics is that most can be pretty expensive.
so hop on over tokaboogie to see what she has.
i do recommend you get their nail polish remover to go with it as regular remover doesn't work very well.
but theecostore baby care line has a nice, clean, fresh scent.
it was a beautiful day.
by eliminating hazardous toxins that are the basis of so many conventional cleaning products we not only help you but keep our planet in the best shape possible.
so  hop on over tothe
honeybee gardens was nice enough to send me jobacolors lip  liners to try out.
i will not share your  e-mail address with anyone, it will strictly be used to notify you if you win.
but there are lots of other great ones.
the first thing i noticed about this cup is the weight.
- follow me on twitter and tweet this  giveaway.
just think about all those disposable ones  that end up in landfills ever year, the petroleum that goes into making the  plastic in them, or the chlorine used to bleach them.
i barely even notice them.
you will find some plastic in this cup on the cap, spout, handle and sleeve.
overall, i am extremely pleased  with the safe sippy.
i may have to try and push them for something next year.
its discouraging to me because the average person like me  can't afford super expensive makeup and it deters people from making the  switch.
posted by marianna nichols  at 12:00 am 13 comments links to this post labels: etsy, kaboogie, product review, repurposed leather newer posts older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) get  daily updates by email •
-read my kaboogie review, visit the kaboogie  store and leave a comment on my review telling me your favorite item.
that would save a ton of plastic and a ton of money.
this week's theme is about police safety, 911 and strangers.
the fudge with walnuts is their bestseller.
that's a whole lot of waste going on, especially since our preschool does not recycle (don't get me going...).
i picked the poppy design (pictured far left) because i liked the blues and greens.
that's right boys, another post about periods.
we did make it to the zoo on the 18th for  their "party for the planet" event, but it didn't go as well as we  had hoped.
the body of the safe sippy is made from stainless steel and holds 11 oz of liquid.
in addition to the nail polish, i also have ajobacolors eyeliner and a powdercolors mineral color that i use for eyeshadow.
this gets you two entries, so leave two comments.
have you already made the switch?
this giveaway is open to  us residents 18+ only and will end on thursday, may 7th at 11:59pm est.
i've only tried 2 brands:glad rags and lunapads, and i have been extremely pleased with both.
i was never a big fan of tampons.
in 1995,  tom and debbie larsen founded bag company shoreline.
now is your chance to quickly click on a different post of mine before we get into it.
i decided to let josh try this cup.
i love that these bottles come with a carabineer clip which is really handy, especially when pushing a packed stroller.
so i was very excited when kid basix sent methe
that's equal to 4.3 million laptop hours!
the only time it  leaked for me is when josh was holding it upside down and shaking it.
leave link to tweet in comment.
winner has 48 hours to claim their prize otherwise a new winner will be picked.
here are some green giveaways that i have found around the blogosphere!
the ingredient list on my sample fudge bar reads as follows: ingredients (all organic): evaporated cane juice, fair-trade chocloate - 65% bittersweet, marshmallow creme, walnuts, contains dairy (half & half), natural oil blend, vanilla extract, love & gratitude.
most importantly i love that it is free from harmful chemicals.
remember this is mandatory and you  must complete this before submitting additional entries.
trader joe's treat kindergarten, here they come!
just think about all those disposable ones that end up in landfills ever year, the petroleum that goes into making the plastic in them, or the chlorine used to bleach them.
i know a lot of people have said good things about ama'z padz as well.
the about a year ago i discoveredhoneybee gardens.
this kit comes with everything you need to plant your seeds: 3 pots, tray,  shovel, soil and organic seeds.
this helps reduce fossil fuel use and  reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improving the overall health and happiness of  the planet.
deha is linked to negative effects on the liver, kidney, spleen, bone  formation and weight.
he would occasionally get  really rough patches around his elbows.
the  ingredient list on my sample fudge bar reads as follows: ingredients (all organic): evaporated cane juice, fair-trade  chocloate - 65% bittersweet, marshmallow creme, walnuts, contains dairy (half  & half), natural oil blend, vanilla extract, love & gratitude.
there are lots of others out there you  can try aswell.
i'm not really sure what to do for the yogurt and cheese sticks.
posted by marianna nichols  at 7:00 am 5 comments links to this post labels: cloth pads, going green, menstrual cup ecostore usa review and giveaway all 3 of my boys suffer from dry skin and eczema, especially luke.
i  love this statement from them:
i've also noticed improvement in josh's skin.
mandatory visit the ecostore usa site then come back and  tell me two items you would like to try.
buying a large jar is cheaper then buying single-serve normally, so on sale its even better.
this helps reduce fossil fuel use and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improving the overall health and happiness of the planet."
i read this entire thing before making my purchase and ithelped me decided on the moon cup.
so i would be so grateful if you could update it with the new html that is posted over in the sidebar.
they were  always pretty uncomfortable for me, especially after child birth (which is kind  of ironic).
(the photos i took were fuzzy).
all of their fudge is made with organic, fair  trade chocolate.
i'd much rather see them have new life as baby shoes to hand down and pass along!"
now kaboogie is more than  just shoes.
the pair i looked at was the same style as these, only a darker brown.
- follow  me ontwitter and tweet this giveaway.
we  planted our seeds on april 17 and today, 6 days later, we alrady have some  sprouts poking through the soil.
not only does it taste great, but its comforting to know that there are no artificial yucky ingredients.
it also seemed like the liquid flowed much easier through the  spout.
unfortunately, i didn't have a natural lipstick to try with it
- blog about this giveaway with a link to green  mama's pad andecostore usa.
i've already discussed the  benefits of giving cloth pads a try.
- fave me on technorati and comment with your id.
the handle makes it easy for little hands to hold and comes off when no longer needed.
every ingredient in our fudge is all natural certified organic and the delicious dark chocolate is grown by fair trade farmers in central and south america.
he does this with all his cups and they all leak.
i  so badly wanted to do something special for earth day this year, but it just  didn't happen.
i decided that the best thing to do for my boys was to switch tostainless steel sippy cups.
william actually had a school field trip to the police station this morning, so i dropped him off for that.
the inside of each  bag has a bright green lining imprinted with their recycle logo, to remind you  of your green purchase.
i actually had not realized what a lousy job i was doing of this until i took this photo of his lunchbox for myfabkins review a few months back.
two thursdays ago i posted on how well me veggie seedlings were doing.
so i turned to the internet and foundearth's sweet pleasures.
because it does not interact with the foods  and fluids it comes into contact with like plastic does.
i opted for themoon cup over the diva cup because at the time it was on sale and considerably less money.
i love the look of thischerry blossoms wristlet.
(i am so jealous by the way, i want one!)
even the brass zipper is reclaimed!
and i said to myself that i would never go that far.
when the boys are out of the bath i love cuddling up with them and smelling their hair.
you will also find leather pillow covers as well as purses and  wristlets here.
i'm so jealous  of you all that live near ameijer store, where the ecostore usa line is  exclusively sold in the united states.
mandatory entry go to the green toys site and look around.
doing good by nature means taking the wonderful gifts that nature  offers and developing plant based products that are safe, authentic and really  work.
plus i am suffering from some really awfulmorning all-day sickness that is rendering me pretty much useless.
and it is good through may 1, 2009.
earth's sweet pleasures endeavors to make the highest quality organic gourmet fudge in the world while supporting sustainability of the planet and it's inhabitants.
one winner will be chosen at random using  random.org.
but i've found it  difficult to find organic chocolates locally.
i actually received it just the  other day and let me tell you, it took a great amount of willpower to not eat  the entire piece all at once because it is so delicious.
so please copy the code one last time.
well as the company states,the safe sippy is spill proof but cannot be 100% drip proof otherwise it would be hard for children to drink from it.
- blog about this  giveaway with a link to green mama's pad and earth's sweet pleasures.
it also lasted a pretty long  time.
i have another stainless steel sippy cup that i think is really  heavy.
the first thing i noticed about this cup is  the weight.
have you already made the  switch?
- fave me on technorati and  comment with your id.
the safe sippy is also easy to clean.
that same day, i brought the seedlings out onto the deck for some fresh air and sunlight.
some of the risks associated with bpa include prostate and breast cancer, testicular abnormalities in boys and puberty in girls younger than eight years old.
kaboogie makes baby shoes, moccasins, wristlets and more all from repurposed  leather (the shoe soles are made from new suede).
i have to research that and see how it works out economically and give it a try.
"gr een toys inc. makes an awesome line of classic  children’s toys constructed from recycled plastic and other  environmentally friendly materials.
but as you can see i also have single-serve yogurt, apple sauce, cheese and juice in there.
especially when they are using it to make eco-friendly toys!
the earthlust bottles also come in 3 sizes: 13 oz, 20 oz and 1 liter.
"i was so thankful to receive some samples of ecostore's baby products.
however in the several weeks i've been  using these, that has happened much less.
not only does it taste great, but its  comforting to know that there are no artificial yucky ingredients.
overall, i am extremely pleased with the safe sippy.
at earth's sweet pleasures you will findrich rainforest dark fudge, both plain and with walnuts.
many of us also pack our own lunches for work or outings.
however in 2007, with  recycled materials now readily available, they committed to converting all  items they make to green material composition.
win one lucky reader will win not one, not two, but three of the safe sippy!!
we need to take a step back for a moment and think about what happens to these containers when we're done.
i love this statement from them: "at honeybee gardens, we believe natural, healthy body care and cosmetics should be affordable.
so how did it test out?
here is something i  had no idea about.
what are they being recycled into?greensmart is one company that is taking those recycled bottles and turning them into cool bags!
just think of twin 2 year olds screaming the entire time.
for comparison sakes, i just went to cvs.com to see what the prices of some mineral eye shadows are and the ones they carry range from $6.99 to $9.99.
at that time, there were no options for eco-friendly materials or fabrics.
which brands/products areyour favorite?
so i was happy to  get some to use.
josh loved having a new cup and i loved all the nifty features.
your email must validate  or it will not count.
they also make overnighters which i want to try too.
- blog about this giveaway with a link to green mama's pad and the safe sippy.
well, at least the ones i have tried.
i would read about other mamas trying them
i think it is great when  someone can find a cool way to reuse things!
the twins are in a side by side double stroller which i love, but it is short on cup holders.
and i said to  myself that i would never go that far.
- blog  about this giveaway with a link to green mama's pad and honeybee gardens.
over time i would definitely like to do that, i'm just not there yet.
the honeybee gardens mineral color is  only $4.99.
i will not share your e-mail address with anyone, it will strictly be used to notify you if you win.
leave link to tweet in  comment.
two weekends ago we took the boys to the zoo (what a rough day).
i was  pleasantly surprised that it was so much better.
the cucumber and zucchini plants were thriving and taking over my table.
i forgot to bring them in.
win earthlust is generously giving one winner their choice of one bottle!
i love his school but i am disappointed that they did  absolutely nothing for earth day this week.
what’s nice is there aren’t a bunch of pieces to take apart and clean, which is another complaint i have for the other stainless steel cup we have.
i thought it was funny that the two colors they sent me
there is  a sleeve to keep drinks cold and protect the cup.
anyway (lol) i would love to hear what everyone else did for earth day today!
so i used  my regular ones.
breville  juice fountain plus 4/30 loading...  ►  2012 (104) stop texting and driving!
i know a lot of people have said good things about
since i have a lunapads giveaway going on, i thought now would be a good time to elaborate more on reusable feminine products.
they were kind enough to send me asample of the rich  rainforest dark fudge with walnuts to taste.
one thing i really wanted to bring you all this week was a tasty organic treat.
and i made sure he was wearing his organic earth day tee.
while most parts can be washed in the dishwasher (except for the valve), i prefer to wash my cups by hand.
this giveaway is open  to us residents 18+ only and will end on monday, may 4th at 11:59pm est.
i've only tried 2  brands:glad rags and lunapads, and i have been extremely pleased with both.
i'd much rather see them have new life as baby shoes to hand  down and pass along!"
but theecostore baby care line has a nice, clean,  fresh scent.
this giveaway is open to us residents 18+ only and will end on friday, may 15th at 11:59pm est.
yes, these used to  gross me out too.
posted by marianna nichols  at 2:00 am 179 comments links to this post labels: giveaway, product review, the safe sippy wednesday, april 22, 2009 happy earth day!
but i knew i had to choose just one because attempting to let them both try it would lead to fighting over who it belongs to.
and i just thought  there was no way they would be comfortable and it would be such a mess.
it has been a rainy week here so far and today was no exception.
with my 2 year old twins both in speech therapy, i’m taking that point very seriously.
i decided to let josh try  this cup.
you must leave your e-mail address in your comment(s)
in  honor of earth day, green toys sent me theirindoor gardening kit to try out.
so it is important for me to use washes and lotions that are easy on the chemicals and therefor easy their skin.
i'm anxious to try out the cream cleanser on my  cooktop!
fsc sets  high standards that ensure forestry is practiced in an environmentally  responsible, socially beneficial, and economically viable way.
however all of the plastics are certified bpa, deha and phthalates free.
please leave link in comment.
we  do still have some bpa-free plastic cups, but i’m trying to gradually  phase those out as who knows what bad chemical will be found in them tomorrow.
win one  winner will receive their indoor gardening kit from green toys.
surf sweets makesorganic and natural gummy candies and jelly beans.
a portion of our proceeds go to environmental  and humanitarian organizations that promoteeconomic fairness for cacao farmers and their families.
(they've entered that terrible twos, everything is a tantrum phase).
we did make it to the zoo on the 18th for their "party for the planet" event, but it didn't go as well as we had hoped.
just the bare minimum so there is less waste and the toys are easy  to remove.
extra entries (please leave a separate comment for each) - follow me on blogger or subscribe to my rss feed - subscribe via  e-mail.
he's been intently looking at my veggie seedlings for  a few weeks now so he was very happy to get his own seeds to plant.
shop green mama's pad readers can get 15% off orders when using code gmp001 at checkout.
wouldn't  these look great on your little princess?
- blog  about this giveaway with a link to green mama's pad and the safe sippy.
winner has 48 hours  to claim their prize otherwise a new winner will be picked.
- blog about this giveaway with a link to  green mama's pad and green toys.
- add my green mama's pad button to your sidebar or  add green mama's pad to your blogroll.
the safe sippy feels so much lighter than that and yet it holds about 2  more ounces.
they were kind enough to send me asample of the rich rainforest dark fudge with walnuts to taste.
one  winner will be chosen at random using random.org.
maybe that will go better.
- become a fan on facebook.
i will not share your e-mail address with anyone, it will strictly  be used to notify you if you win.
ecostore usa has much more than  baby care products.
fast forward to friday morning.
the  lip liner went on very smoothly and looked great.
the winner will receive one of each of the  following colors: island spice, perfection and zen.
that is a  huge savings!!
by purchasing  our fudge you helpsustain the rainforest where cacao trees are  grown in the shade of the canopy.
please remember that this is mandatory and you must complete this before submitting any extra entries.
i fill atake & toss snack cup with applesauce, snap the lid on and voila!
products bearing the forest stewardship council (fsc) logo, which guarantees that the wood from a certified well-managed forest, are available across the world from a variety of mills, manufacturers, and distributors.
he would occasionally get really rough patches around his elbows.
but it is stillunnecessary waste.
this  giveaway is open to us residents 18+ only and will end on wednesday, may 6th at  11:59pm est.
- add my green mama's pad button to your  sidebar or add green mama's pad to your blogroll.
i actually received it just the other day and let me tell you, it took a great amount of willpower to not eat the entire piece all at once because it is so delicious.
i have other bottles with extra wide openings that make it easier to get ice in.
you will  find some plastic in this cup on the cap, spout, handle and sleeve.
(or maybe i'm just clumsy?)
the honeybee gardens mineral color is only $4.99.
i received theb ody wash, shampoo and lotion and immediately started using them on the boys.
the body of the safe sippy is made from stainless steel and holds 11  oz of liquid.
mandatory entry visit the safe sippy site  then come back and comment with something you learned that i did not mention  here.
- stumble this and comment with your  id.
plus their  overnight ones are awesome - no leaks!
some of the risks associated with bpa include prostate and breast cancer,  testicular abnormalities in boys and puberty in girls younger than eight years  old.
so many  can trigger headaches for me.
win one lucky winner will receive three jobacolors lip  liners from honeybee gardens.
but now i think it is safe to say that they are pretty much all dead.
and i was so glad i had that water with me.
at that time, there were  no options for eco-friendly materials or fabrics.
- follow me on twitter and tweet this giveaway.
the first thing i noticed was the scent - i love it!
now that doesn’t mean this cup is always leaking.
there  are no substitutes for that!
in addition to the gardening  kit, they also have trucks, a tool set, a tea set and more.
our  ingredients are the principle factor in helpingecostore achieve this goal.
the promo code iskz39mx
the avengers prize pack 5/14 •rubbermaid hidden recycler 5/8 • bbc  earth day blu-ray prize pack: frozen planet, planet earth, natural history  4/30 • $25 dunkin' donuts gc 4/30 ~ 3 winners •
in  addition to the nail polish, i also have ajobacolors eyeliner and a  powdercolors mineral color that i use for eyeshadow.
i started off with theirwater-based nail polish.
there are only 2, which i was using for their cups, so i used the clip to hang myearthlust bottle from the back of the stroller.
i  will not share your e-mail address with anyone, it will strictly be used to  notify you if you win.
in honor of the 39th annual earth day, greensmart is running an earth  month promotion and offering a discount promo for 39% off any order.
this woman  tried out a bunch of different ones and then lists all of her findings here.
anyway (lol) i  would love to hear what everyone else did for earth day today!
i  opted for themoon cup over the diva cup because at the time it was on sale and  considerably less money.
and i can finally  toss the few plastic cups that we have left.
no particular reason, just a random choice.
but now that i have this lip liner, i was inspired to order  some lipstick from honeybee gardens which should be arriving any day now.
and i really can't stress enough how comfortable cloth pads are.
while believe me that stuff is so very important, i  would have liked them to throw something about the earth in their somewhere.
one of each color:  pink, green and blue.
the first cycle was a learning one, but by the second cycle i had figured out how to insert it properly and now i don't even notice it is there.
one winner will be chosen at random using random.org.
you can alsosubmit your green giveaways to me during the week for me to include on fridays.
- stumble this and comment  with your id.
there are no chemicals  in the stainless steel so no chemical can leach into the beverages.
what are they being recycled into?greensmart is one company that is  taking those recycled bottles and turning them into cool bags!
i so badly wanted to do something special for earth day this year, but it just didn't happen.
as  of october 2008 greensmart bottles 2 bags had used 555,169 16oz pet bottles  which saved 369 million btus.
so i turned to the internet and  foundearth's sweet pleasures.
green works reverse graffiti gallery disneynature's chimpanzee family activity book wordless wednesday:
posted by marianna nichols  at 3:52 pm 2 comments links to this post ended earth's sweet pleasures fudge review and giveaway one thing i really wanted to bring you all this week was a tasty organic  treat.
for comparison sakes, i just went to cvs.com to see what the  prices of some mineral eye shadows are and the ones they carry range from $6.99  to $9.99.
a portion of our proceeds go to environmental and humanitarian organizations that promoteeconomic fairness for cacao farmers and their families.
-  fave me on technorati and comment with your id.
their is a good selection of  colors, i have a few, and they wear well.
i have another stainless steel sippy cup that i think is really heavy.
there are no substitutes for that!
in 1995, tom and debbie larsen founded bag company shoreline.
i particuarly like  the recycling truck and the cooware & dining set.
now is your chance to quickly click on a different  post of mine before we get into it.
i really love the fringe.
while believe me that stuff is so very important, i would have liked them to throw something about the earth in their somewhere.
i've built up a decent amount of their makeup during that time.
- add my green mama's pad button to your sidebar or add green mama's pad to  your blogroll.
however all  of the plastics are certified bpa, deha and phthalates free.
my first attempt at a veggie garden has already gone down in flames.
winner has 48 hours to claim their prize otherwise a new winner  will be picked.
your email must validate or it will not count.
and i just thought there was no way they would be comfortable and it would be such a mess.
we should be good to go now.
- fave me on  technorati and comment with your id.
extra entries  (please leave a separate comment for each) - follow me on blogger or  subscribe to myrss feed - subscribe via e-mail.
so i can contact you.
shop kaboogie is  offering free shipping to all green mama's pad readers.
i love finding cool green stuff, especially for my little guys, so i was happy to share that with her.
well be sure to add it to mr. linky down below!
shopping mama to check it out and be sure to leave a comment!!
source: forest stewardship council
just be careful when pouring because it can come out fast!
it lathers really nicely with  only a small amount; i'd say i use about dime sized portion.
no ideally it would be better to get away from plastic and use stainless steel storage, but baby steps.
but once  you try it you will realize how much better it is.
now they have a great selection  ofeco-friendly bags: laptop jackets, sleeves and messenger style laptop bags  and also totes and shoulder bags.
extra entries (please leave a separate comment for each) -  follow me on blogger or subscribe to my rss feed - subscribe via e-mail.
i love finding cool green  stuff, especially for my little guys, so i was happy to share that with her.
when i first joined the "green  movement", the thought of cloth pads truly grossed me out
all of their toys are also free of bpa and phthalates.
mandatory entry visit the earthlust site then come back and tell me which bottle you would choose if you won.
" green toys makes all of their toys from  recycled plastic milk jugs and they are all made in the usa.
i love that thelunapads let you just  change the liner as needed instead of changing the entire bad.
and i made sure he was wearing his  organic earth day tee.
every ingredient in our fudge is  all natural certified organic and the delicious dark chocolate is grown by fair trade farmers in central and south america.
safe sippy is shaped like a straw because traditional wide spouts that are on many sippy cups have been found by experts to cause speech development problems.
i  may have to try and push them for something next year.
just leave a comment  here and then when you place your order put "greenmamaspad" in  "message to seller" and kaboogie will refund your shipping.
i would love it if stonyfield made a large container of yobaby and yokids yogurt.
all 3 of my boys suffer from dry skin and eczema, especially luke.
you must complete this entry before you can submit any  extra entries.
allergy notice: please note that this fudge  contains walnuts.
solution: make them ourselves and share the love with the world!"
he does  this with all his cups and they all leak.
#itcanwait green giveaway friday 4/26 what a difference a deck can make popular themes for a boys birthday party marvel's the avengers opens may 4 #giveaway wordless wednesday:
" i was so thankful to receive some samples of ecostore's  baby products.
this woman tried out a bunch of different ones and then lists all of her findings here.
their is a good selection of colors, i have a few, and they wear well.
this  gets you two entries, so leave two comments.
the only time it leaked for me is when josh was holding it upside down and shaking it.
i am more than happy with all of them.
so i was really excited when i foundecostore usa and their natural  baby care products.
one of each color: pink, green and blue.
remember that when we talk about waste-free lunches, we are not just talking about our kids.
so i hope you can maybe consider trying out some reusable menstrual  products.
hopefully i can keep those going and plant them outside soon.
there are truly so many great shops over on etsy, especially eco-friendly ones.
extra entries - follow me on  blogger or subscribe to my rss feed - subscribe via e-mail.
i love their line:if it doesn’t exist in nature, you won’t find it in surf sweets.
no cellophane or annoying little  twist-ties.
the same time i bought my first cloth pads, i bought a cup as well.
so many can trigger headaches for me.
- follow me on twitter and  tweet this giveaway.
win greensmart is generously awarding one winner a laptop jacket or  sleeve of their choice.
green earth journey i really think it is great when companies take the initiative to make things out recycled materials.
and enter one of the  autism awareness month giveaways.
mandatory  entry visit honeybee gardens and take a look at all the products they  carry.
i will not share your e-mail  address with anyone, it will strictly be used to notify you if you win.
in the last few years there has been a lot of talk about the dangers of chemicals found in plastic baby bottles and sippy cups.
- add my green  mama's pad button to your sidebar or add green mama's pad to yourblogroll.
his eczema is quite bad and my pediatrician said what he has is hereditary and there actually isn't anything i can use to cure it.
the key is to reduce our waste, even recycling waste.
thank you all in advance, i appreciate it!
you must  leave your e-mail address in your comment(s)
our fudge ismade the  old-fashioned way, using an original family recipe that is 25% less  sweet than conventional fudge, enhancing the intense flavor of the award  winning rich,dark chocolate.
winner has  48 hours to claim their prize otherwise a new winner will be picked.
- add my earth day blog party button  to your sidebar.
- blog about this giveaway with a link to green mama's pad and earthlust.
that's right boys,  another post about periods.
i come downstairs in the morning and realize my kitchen table is missing something.
how does it do with leaking?
of course the best ingredients are the love and gratitude.
this giveaway is open to us residents 18+ only and will end  on friday, may 8th at 11:59pm est.
posted by marianna nichols  at 12:00 am 170 comments links to this  post labels: giveaway, green toys, product review thursday, april 23, 2009 the safe sippy review and giveaway
when they use other cups it sounds like they have to suck really hard to get the drink out.
it will more than pay for itself as far as saving you money since you wont have to buy water and by helping save the planet from plastic waste.
josh loved having a new cup and i loved all the nifty  features.
this giveaway is open to us residents 18+ only and will end on tuesday, april  28th at 11:59pm est.
if you have grabbed my button in the past, it is probably no longer displaying on your site.
he definitely had the most mildeczema of the three.
kaboogie makes baby shoes, moccasins, wristlets and more all from repurposed leather (the shoe soles are made from new suede).
i also want to mention that a little goes a long way with the shampoo and body wash.
these moccasins are incredibly soft too.
posted by marianna nichols  at 8:31 pm 1 comments links to this post labels: earth day posted by marianna nichols  at 1:21 am 29 comments links to this post labels: wordless wednesday honeybee gardens review & giveaway it seems to me that the trend with natural cosmetics is that most can be  pretty expensive.
the process of  turning a used water bottle into a bag is quite interesting and you can read  all about ithere.
i wish my twins were younger because these would be so cute on them.
remember this  is mandatory and you must complete this before submitting additional entries.
this giveaway is open to us residents 18+ only and will end on thursday, may 7th at 11:59pm est.
its discouraging to me because the average person like me can't afford super expensive makeup and it deters people from making the switch.
extra entries (please leave a separate  comment for each) - follow me on blogger or subscribe to my rss feed -  subscribe via e-mail.
i've read some suggestions on buying the bigger blocks of mozzarella cheese and then slicing them into sticks yourself.
so i was very excited whensurf sweets sent me their candy to try out!
the problem i have with those is that the opening is wider than my mouth and i often spill some water.
matched the typicl lipstick colors that i wear: brownish-berryish colors.
doing good by nature means taking the wonderful gifts that nature offers and developing plant based products that are safe, authentic and really work.
we still have some juice boxes we are working on, but when those are gone i should start sending in a strawsippy cup with water/juice in it.
how does it  do with leaking?
the only seedlings that survived are the peppers (the right 4 columns).
william was very excited!
i've already discussed the benefits of giving cloth pads a try.
i was thrilled when kate from the shopping mama asked me to write a guest article about "green" shopping for kids.
the server where my button was previously located had issues so now the location of it has changed.
phthalates have been linked to liver cancer and kidney damage in some animals.
one type of product i have not talked about yet are menstrual cups.
what you will first notice about their bottles is that they come in so many cool designs.
one type of  product i have not talked about yet are menstrual cups.
they also damage rodent reproductive systems and there  is concern that they do the same to human infant boys.
i  barely even notice them.
please  leave link in comment.
do you ever wonder what happens to all those plastic bottles that you  recycle?
plus i am suffering from some really awfulmorning all-day sickness that is  rendering me pretty much useless.
at earth's sweet pleasures  you will findrich rainforest dark fudge, both plain and with walnuts.
i may have mentioned in the past that i have quite a sweet tooth.
remember this is mandatory and you must complete this before submitting additional entries.
our fudge ismade the old-fashioned way, using an original family recipe that is 25% less sweet than conventional fudge, enhancing the intense flavor of the award winning rich,dark chocolate.
maybe i'll write to them!
i just wish i had found  that out sooner.
by  eliminating hazardous toxins that are the basis of so many conventional  cleaning products we not only help you but keep our planet in the best shape  possible.
come back and  tell me something you learned that i did not mention here plus a toy that you  think looks cool.
- add my green mama's pad button to your sidebar or add green mama's pad to your blogroll.
all of their fudge is made with organic, fair trade chocolate.
but once you try it you will realize how much better it is.
i started with the applesauce.
our ingredients are the principle factor in helpingecostore achieve this goal.
i love his school but i am disappointed that they did absolutely nothing for earth day this week.
earth's sweet pleasures endeavors to make the highest quality organic gourmet fudge in the world while supporting  sustainability of the planet and it's inhabitants.
- read my kaboogie review,  visit the kaboogie store and leave a comment on my review telling me your  favorite item.
they have natural cosmetics, hair care, body care and lip care and all at reasonable prices.
what’s nice is there aren’t a bunch  of pieces to take apart and clean, which is another complaint i have for the  other stainless steel cup we have.
but i've found it difficult to find organic chocolates locally.
- add my earth day blog party button to your sidebar.
yes, these used to gross me out too.