and i'm still thinking about what to do with the whitecurrants and the gooseberries.
it's a full moon in taurus and the sun is  shining.
i meant to do that when the moon was last in leo but ran out of time.
she came and visited my site and i proudly showed  her a cleared plot.
the only fruit trees that i'm still feeding are the olive and the fig tree.
a couple of weeks ago i was doing an intense hypnotherapy course  which meant that there was no time for gardening.
today i made blackberry jam.
in fact, i did mix in compost that my partner got from the local recycling centre but as you can appreciate, with 125sq metres, i had to make it stretch a little.
ideally, i would have done it when the moon was last in capricorn
this is a job i normally do towards the end of september when i want  them to ripen before the frosts.
i seem to cross my fingers frequently  when gardening!
having spent all summer last year clearing brambles, bindweed and couch grass, this year i've been dealing with the weeds that were dormant on the plot.
you can grow bean sprouts, alfalfa and lettuce.
i had hoped to have had everything in order before christmas.
on the subject of tomatoes,  at the rhs wisley gardens this afternoon, i noticed that their tomatoes were  just beginning to ripen.
one of my students kindly brought some woodash he's  collected from his wood burning stove, so i can use that to feed the fruit on  the allotment.
with the moon in capricorn, an earth sign, roots are the focus.
on monday, my day off, not much time was given to rest.
i've been making the most of the remaining hours of the waning moon to make my preserves.
it's a very easy way to propagate strawberries and at this time of year they are very busy multiplying.
the moon is now waxing and today it has been in the sign of gemini.
i'm going to feed my apples, strawberries, pear, peach and cherry trees.
20/11/11 with the moon in the earth sign virgo, my thoughts are with  compost.
if  they've finished when the moon goes into leo, i'll prune them then.
i've been making the most of the remaining hours of the waning moon to make my  preserves.
more recycling, the rest will continue to rot down to create beautiful compost that will make the clay soil more friendly to young plants.
the winds actually blew it over, but i've staked it now and it is still very statuesque.
garlic needs exposure to about three weeks of very cold weather, preferably with frost.
i'm loving  the autumn
it was a very satisfying thing to do a way of saying a big thank-you.
i planted more  parsnips (very late due slugs devouring previous plantings), beetroot, carrots,  celeriac and spring onions.
waning moons are good for feeding as they ground  is more absorbant.
5/11/11 those who read this blog on a regular basis will remember that this year, my biggest battle has been with slugs and snails.
if you have sorrel, tomorrow will be a good day to increase  your supply.
last year i was too late planting sweetcorn to get a good crop so again i'm really hoping things will be different this year.
i'm  so delighted that my coriander has actually survived the slugs.
i think  i'll put my feet up now!
today the moon has been in aries.
last year, my priority was to tame the wilderness that was my allotment and plant it.
of late it's leaves have been  losing their vivid green colour.
this year's wonderful crop were self seeded.
this time though the moon has  been in gemini.
air moons are flower days but as the moon  was waning, i decided to wait for tomorrow to start planting.
although i'd have preferred to have done this job on a waxing moon, the fact that i was working with the roots of the plant, means that the plants can still benefit from the waning moon.
with the moon in  a water sign, i decided to thin them in the hope that they will grow nice and  fat in the early spring.
having been up late, i found myself at one in the morning remembering that plants hadn't been brought in.
in fact, i did mix in compost that my partner got from the  local recycling centre but as you can appreciate, with 125sq metres, i had to  make it stretch a little.
so liquid feeds are best at this  time.
picking them  in the sunshine was heavenly.
so i have to keep it in check and then enjoy the fruit.
i can never leave without a new addition for the  garden.
29/04/11 more  seed sowing today.
the moon is in leo, whilst still waning, i decided to cut back some of the foliage of my tomatoes.
the beans are going strong too and there is that feeling of abundance we get just as we approach the end of summer.
it's easy to think that the garden doesn't need watering in  the winter but if you have pots with plants against walls, they may not be  getting the rain.
the tree is a bare root tree and it remained in its package until christmas  eve.
the heat in the last couple of days has changed everything.
this morning i planted carrots, parsnips, beetroot and celeriac.
i sowed the seeds last  month and they're doing well.
of  course there is another capricorn link to this and that is that this is the  sign most associated with hard work!
i will leave it for a while and then when it is suitably stinky, it will provide a very nutritious feed for my plants.
you can already see the little peaches forming on it.
june is the month  when apple trees often shed excess fruit.
friday's heat was so welcome that my pumpkins actually started to change colour  and ripen for the first time.
thankfully, i think i'll be in time for  the next cold spell.
but i noticed while watering the other day that some potatoes were peeking up above the soil.
i dug them up and put  them in the greenhouse.
the  moon is now waning.
it's been a very hot day, so i found myself watering everything very  thoroughly again today.
remember that this includes flowering vegetables too.
if you like strawberries and have a little space for them, now is a great  time of year to buy a few or ask a friend who has some to give you some  runners.
this is a most unexpected and welcome surprise!
at the  moment, i'm harvesting soft fruit.
water your house plants and any  container plants in the garden that might be in need.
this is very exciting as i've never made  compost before!
so i'm planning to harvest all the peppers and the runner beans this coming week.
i hope they survive the night!
my redcurrant bush  was dripping with fruit and the bowl i brought for harvesting was really  nowhere near enough.
the  annoying thing is that my neighbour's currant bushes were left intact.
with the moon in the  earth sign of virgo, yesterday and today, the focus has been on compost.
so i'm taking a leaf out of nature's book and sowing some now and some in spring.
sweet corn, courgettes and peppers  were planted on the allotment.
2/08/11 with the moon  in virgo, i've turned my attention to roots- actually my potatoes.
gemini is approaching the summer solstice so is considered to have descending energy.
it also involves caring for the soil with the preparation of natural feed and ways of controlling pests.
they are fairly easy to store as long as they are kept cool and in the dark, otherwise they begin to go green which makes them poisonous.
so i've got them covered with mini cloches.
so today they were pricked out- planted into  small pots and given some protection- as much from slugs as from the weather.
my seed catalogue arrived today.
i think i found heaven!
suckers appear on the original root stock or trees  that are grafted.
blacurrants need the oldest and weakest branches removed.
otherwise i'll wait for the waning moon next month.
to do this, i removed all leaves that were stopping them from getting  the sun.
these are all indoors of course as it's still too cold at night for  them to be out.
the  moon was still waning in an air moon.
a very simple, necessary and satisfying job that can be done even with a migraine.
february- 00:56 wednesday 15th
first month, looking a little bare-
it certainly felt abundant.
if they peep above the ground, then they are exposed to the light andwill go green.
11/05/11 next week, i'll be  unable to attend to any gardening due to a very busy schedule.
i weeded  around them and applied a dressing of compost.
the sign associated with harvest, it is very helpful for biodymanic gardeners.
today with the moon in capricorn, i turned to look at my root vegetables.
my partner went back to the recycling centre and brought bags of beautiful compost.
as  the moon is in aries and is now waxing, this is a good day to attend to your  fruit.
being outdoors was not an  option.
lots of seed was sown, coriander, dill and other herbs  as well as cabbage.
beans and peas could use a boost too.
after  teaching, i went over to the allotment and was given more squashes and  courgettes by a friend.
happily though, this morning was delightfully sunny so i started to  work on my tomatoes to ensure that they got as much exposure to the sun as  possible.
5/11/11 those who read  this blog on a regular basis will remember that this year, my biggest battle  has been with slugs and snails.
having been up late, i found myself at one in  the morning remembering that plants hadn't been brought in.
that  taught me the value of having some produce in store so that i don't have to go  out everyday regardless of the weather.
so i'm looking through the catalogues getting ready to order garlic and onions.
virgo is the most useful sign for gardeners.
it feels nice to be storing for the harder times to come.
central heating can also be a problem for some plants, so check whether you need to spray them so as to increase humidity.
the calendar will give a clue as to the reason for this burst of activity.
today the triumph was the blackcurrants though.
i won't be watering again until next week.
it's fine, they'll just be a  little late.
it's my first time doing all of  this.
gemini is approaching the summer solstice so is  considered to have descending energy.
so if i were to have a new year's resolution for the garden, it's to be far more clever and ruthless when it comes to the slimy brigade!!!
the twelve signs also have another property- they are ascending or
this is the ideal day to do it as the waning moon will promote good root growth.
i had hoped to have this covered and protected from the rain by the end of november but didn't get round to it.
18/04/11 a beautiful day today
this will come in handy as it's likely that my store  of onions will be dwindling by then.
this is a sign of descending energy, so although the  moon is still waxing, i felt it was good enough to plant the rest of my  shallots and onions.
but if you have pots with plants against walls, they may not be getting the rain.
with the moon in capricorn, an  earth sign, roots are the focus.
it too will feed the bees, and provide me with wonderful scent when i'm working.
the moon is in capricorn so i'm turning my attention to potatoes today.
plants benefit from being in a nursery bed for a  while as they have less competition than in border with lots of grown up and  competing plants.
you may wonder why i haven't just sown the seed straight into  the ground, but i haven't yet had much success with this due to the large slug  population so the tried and trusted method is preferred.
this is all i have time for today.
today i also attended to something that got put off while i was sick.
as this is my last chance to have these this year,  i think it was worth getting out of bed.
the same goes for all currants and gooseberries.
to do this, i removed all leaves that were stopping them from getting the sun.
if you have any flower shrubs needing pruning at this time of year, tomorrow  will be a good day to do it.
i ran out of time today but tomorrow the moon will still be in capricorn.
this is not the best time for  planting leaf vegetables or herbs, so rather than spend time gardening, i went  to the rhs gardens at wisley.
i decided to collect seed from my cornflowers and found that they had already self seeded.
with any luck  this and a bit of sunshine should do the trick.
having said that, it clearly shows my unease over unseasonal weather, even though the sun is shining, with the weirdness of our weather, we could yet see frosts before june!
26/08/11 rain and work have kept  me from the allotment for the last few days.
as the moon is waning, there isn't much else to be done.
fire moons are good for dealing with fruit and this is a waxing moon so good for planting.
specifically, i needed to check on my peach and nectarine trees.
my garden is small, but it is walled.
but take care that you don't use too much  in one meal as it's it's high  in oxalic acid.
water moons are foliage days which means leaf vegetables like lettuce and herbs but it's a waxing moon, so there is not a lot to do.
as you  might imagine transforming my plot from a wilderness into a well tended garden  has created large compost heaps.
in the meantime, today was spent preparing yet another bead for the all the planting that i'll be doing with the moon in leo.
so it's time to feed fruit  like tomatoes, aubergines, cucumbers, peppers, courgettes, pumpkins and  squashes.
so for example, garlic and onions  should be planted on different beds each year.
8/06/11 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=thc09ibcqf0 virgo is a very forgiving sign  in the garden.
4/06/11 yesterday morning the moon went into the sign of cancer and it will remain ther until around 4pm tomorrow.
it is now january so you will notice that i am late.
i do have a third just in case, but it would be really nice if they  would leave this batch to me!!!
i had some left over and put them on the allotment again, just in case we get an indian summer.
other sowings included hardy annual- statice and alyssum as well as hardy perennial- dianthus.
she also said that even if the tops go  green, i could remove the green part and enjoy the rest safely.
look out for it, the smell is  simply delicious.
for this reason, i had to resow my leeks much later than i should.
february waxing moon in aries sow aubergines, peppers, tomatoes, cape gooseberries  indoors 14:29 sunday 26th
this isn't a moon associated with gardening so i usually use this time for enjoying the garden, contemplating changes that need to be made or tidying up.
it has  outgrown its pot.
it's not a large crop, half a jar, but it's  the largest ever and an unexpected bonus.
i sowed courgettes, french, borlotti and runner beans as well as pumpkins and cobnut squash.
they don't develop deep roots which makes them more vulnerable during droughts.
if it doesn't get this, you will get a very fat bulb  without division into separate cloves.
again, i'm thinking the harvest for both will  just be delayed and as the packet of seeds' viability was only guaranteed for  this year, i had nothing to lose.
i think i'll be harvesting  fennel.
as for the figs, i'm helping them to swell to a bigger size before they ripen.
i'll also provide some for my cherry tree for the same reason.
this meant that i had to spend rather a long time digging it out before planting.
sadly for me, due to the fact that it's my second year on an allotment that had been abandoned for three years, weeding happens on a daily basis.
so i cut off the dead branches to allow the new life to come through.
she came and visited my site and i proudly showed her a cleared plot.
before the snow, i noticed that some of my pots  outdoors were dry.
so today, i'll water the house  plants that need it and do some more tidying up.
it feels like i'm ready for winter.
these are simply wonderful and there are few pleasures that compare to walking barefoot on a cool lawn, on a hot summer's day!
i miss it when i can't get out there!
this is enough time to take some  cuttings from mint and peppermint.
happily, it has shrunk and most of the matter has decomposed.
if you've missed this chance, don't worry, there is still  plenty of time as you can sow the seeds in may.
back in the autumn i sowed a batch of seed.
these were immediately removed.
today the moon is in sagittarius as i've been working i haven't been able to do much, and anyway it was raining.
there are some suckers on my peach tree  which need to be removed.
so you  can imagine how much time they took to prepare!
so i decided to plant half in the green house with the cucumbers and the other half out on the allotment.
waning  moons are good for pruning, so if there is any fruit pruning to be done, today  and tomorrow are good days for it.
one of them is so high that it's at eye level and looks very much like a wall!
today was much more pleasant.
together with a few drops of lavender oil, i now have a gel in the freezer to  help with burns.
yesterday with the moon in cancer, i  sowed some chickory seeds and planted more spinach beet, swiss chard, lettuce  and radiccio.
the moon is in scorpio and this is a water sign.
you can then cut the chord and you have a new plant.
it's quite a job as it covers about 2 square  metres but very satisfying.
they are fairly easy to store as long as they are kept cool  and in the dark, otherwise they begin to go green which makes them poisonous.
thankfully, it has already begun to shrink.
that's exactly what i  did yesterday.
as a biodynamic gardener, i'm supposed to make a special preparation and put it in a cow's horn to then bury it.
i have a plastic mini greenhouse which my partner has screwed to the back of my shed to stop it blowing away.
it is possible to get nemetodes that  predate on slugs.
the moon is now in sagittarius.
they seem to love cabbage  and coriander!
libra is an air sign and air signs are linked with flowers, so today is a flower day.
it's a great alternative to spinach in soups, and sauces.
the same goes  for all currants and gooseberries.
this is my third attempt at coriander this year, the slugs  have had every plant so far.
it means that watering and feeding is crucial, but it also makes for a longer growing season
there is a great crop ready to be harvested and i'm just about to head out.
autumn fruiting raspberries fruit on the current year's  growth.
they  throw out what looks like a chord with baby strawberry plants on it.
they are late but  previous attention from slugs and snails have left me with one parsnip plant!
i've kept a diagram of all the beds on the allotment and what's been planted in them from the start (the last two years).
the  strawberries are slowing down now, but along with raspberries, there's still  enough for breakfast.
but i'm concerned that i'll be too late.
i also tied  back some floppy branches.
planting will be done  at a more ideal time.
this is enough time to take some cuttings from mint and peppermint.
fingers crossed it will all be well!
it will also allow fruit to be more exposed to the sun during the ripening stage.
it was an opportunity to admire everyone's plots which look wonderful!
winter arrived early last year.
ideally you would  have done that earlier in the season though.
also when there were bowls in the fridge and the fridge was opened, you were hit by the smell of strawberries.
liquid seaweed or if you're close enough to collect seaweed, you can put it on your beds.
this meant that my parsnips in particular looked like something out of a parsnip horror movie!
being a waning water moon means that the focus has been on leafy vegetables.
they were making their way to my courgettes, an offense  payable by death!
so it was that despite  the fact that the moon is waxing and root vegetables are best planted on waning  moons, i planted some forgotten red onion sets.
as it's a waning moon though, there isn't much to do.
1/05/11 as the moon is still waning and in aries, today i fed the cherry, pear, apple, peach, nectarine and plum trees.
it's been a while since i've had the time to write this  blog.
the moon is now waxing again and it's in aquarius.
so today i planted cabbages, lettuce, spinach beet, swiss chard, coriander, thyme and chamomile.
i also sowed some more spring onion seeds.
i also sowed more parsnips, carrots, salsify, beetroot, celeriac and spring onions.
the prevents them from growing  so fast that they bolt (produce flowers too quickly and go to seed).
so i took  advantage of the fact that the moon has been in scorpio today and watered the  allotment.
2/12/11 with the days getting shorter, it's harder to get the time to be on the allotment.
but still there are weeds!
so the potatoes have all been harvested which means that they are clean, safe from the attention of slugs, eelworm and easily accessable.
the strawberries are slowing down now, but along with raspberries, there's still enough for breakfast.
not allot that needs to be done as the moon is waning  and in sagittarius.
but i'm  concerned that i'll be too late.
3/09/11 it was wonderful to  have a couple of days of sunshine, but it's a pity it didn't last longer!
i was completely shattered but the efforts were very worthwhile as i can now just enjoy gardening without having to clear and dig!
although pruning is normally  done on a waning moon, this could easily become an uncontrollable thug so i  pruned it today in the hope of reducing its vigour.
so i planted a few in pots also in the mini green house.
water moons are related to foliage plants and  these are best delt with on a waning moon.
2/10/11 the moon is still in sagittarius and today i  continued my focus on fruit.
i drank the scent of  some roses and then decided that it was time to head home.
i think they need  a longer growing season.
29/01/12 with the moon in aries, the focus has been on fruit.
it is now  january so you will notice that i am late.
i had hoped to have  this covered and protected from the rain by the end of november but didn't get  round to it.
i  wonder if they'll grow extra large having been planted on a moon jupiter  conjunction!
rain would now be most welcome!
last year didn't work out for watermelons so my fingers are crossed this year!
one of my very experienced allotment neighbours reassured me that if i did that now, they'd still be ok.
this is truly what spring  is all about!!
i've noticed a few small branches on my peach which are dead, so they'll be coming off.
they need to be  measured so that i could create a kind of tent shelter around them.
they would look around  they said and let me know.
the most i've done is water the house plants.
i've been picking the unaffected fruit and some are ripening on the window sill.
15/09/11 the moon has still been in aries through the day and i would normally have been feeding my fruit.
i didn't get the chance to cut its stems to crystallising but will try to do that when the moon is waning in aquarius as that will be a better time to do it anyway.
this is a new feeling for me but brought on by ritual of the harves and the laying in of stores.
in preparation for the moon in taurus tomorrow, and the planting of a new bed, my partner kindly got me some more compost from the recycling centre.
this is the other reason why i love being on my allotment.
3/05/11 one of my compost bins has been  sitting in the shed for about two months.
31/01/12 one of the wonderful things about allotments is the fact that there's always someone on hand who can tell you what you need to know.
those going in now will mean an earlier  display.
you can plant them very deep and this increases their reliability, but i find the best thing to do is to lift the bulbs when the foliage has died down, store them in a dark and ventilated place, planting them in november or december.
well this is very necessary as i now have to stand on my tippy toes to reach the top which is above my head!
it's like being in a sweet shop!
this way they are big enough to resist the attention of the pigeon population.
the idea is that between the moon in  capricorn and the moon in leo, seeds will have germinated.
still on the subject of fruit, i had my first figs today!
i wasn't worried though as  it's dormant, i knew it would survive a little while.
i'll start  to feed it and keep my fingers crossed.
the allotment is still being enjoyed through the food i'm eating.
it's the first time i've done this so i'm looking forward to the results.
at least now i'm only weeding the beds!
i have probably left them on the bush a bit  longer than i should but i've been so busy with the strawberries that  everything else had to wait.
this year the focus has been on getting the allotments in order whilst planting.
they will be weaker having  produced so much fruit.
if it rains, i  won't need to.
strawberries for breakfast  every morning and today there were raspberries too!!
this way i can get a sense of how many plants are in the bed and i can thin out those that are too tightly packed.
6/08/11 with the moon still in scorpio, i have been watering and feeding my houseplants.
the ground is very hard and so today for  the first time, i've watered the garden and allotment.
you may wonder why i haven't just sown the seed straight into the ground, but i haven't yet had much success with this due to the large slug population so the tried and trusted method is preferred.
as it's a waxing moon, i also sowed some hollyhocks and foxgloves.
i'll be harvesting more potatoes,  checking on the turnips and radishes i planted last month and starting a new  compost heap.
whatever happens outside, nature just goes on oblivious to our madness.
i think it will be ok because the aim of chitting is for the  potatoes to start developing buds and i think a waxing moon may actually speed  this up.
they know  what they like!
yesterday with the moon in cancer, i sowed some chickory seeds and planted more spinach beet, swiss chard, lettuce and radiccio.
this is something to look forward to tomorrow.
ideally  they'd be planted when the moon goes into gemini, but actually they're growing  quickly and are desperate for more roomy pots.
a few of them will have strawberries descended from mine next year.
so today, i'll water the house plants that need it and do some more tidying up.
26/06/11 jupiter is a planet of abundance and today the moon has been very close to it.
any fruit trees or shrubs which  are either in blossom or which have flowered and are now forming fruit, now  need a feed.
today, with the moon in taurus, i decided to turn my attention to compost.
air moons are flower days but as the moon was waning, i decided to wait for tomorrow to start planting.
i then planned to plant them last month but last month, i had no time for gardening.
last  year i was too busy to do this and lost all my blackcurrants to the birds.
so it was that i picked the last of my runner beans, french beans and  borlotti beans.
pumpkin soup has proved to be delicious and popular with all my students!
happily the  harvest has been very generous and although the weather has made a difference,  the flavour is still good
this  is all i have time for today.
it's been two weeks since i was on  the allotment.
i drank the scent of some roses and then decided that it was time to head home.
a seed tray containing half parsnips and half carrots, has all the carrots left and all the parsnips gone!!!
before watering  them on a water moon, i check whether they actually need it.
a few of them will have strawberries descended from mine  next year.
they are doing really well with baby cucumbers  already visible.
the good thing is that tomorrow the moon will still be waxing in libra, so if like me you didn't get the chance to work in the garden, there's always tomorrow.
28/05/11 the moon is still in aries.
i wasn't worried though as it's dormant, i knew it would survive a little while.
during this period the focus shifts from fruit and flowers to roots and leaf plants.
if the smell is indicative of the good it will do them, they should thrive!!!
as  you have  read, time and again i've written about my losing battle with slugs and snails.
last week was spent bringing in the last of the  harvest.
today's  job is to split the peppermint.
i feel an experiement coming on.
they grow in clumps of corms, similar to those of crocus.
happily my shallots are ready to be lifted.
interestingly, last year this didn't happen.
keeping on top of the weeds at this time of year is crucial.
the same feed that i use for the  camellia and magnolia should help.
the deluge will  undoubtedly be with us soon- probably just in time for my birthday!
water too much and plants become dependant on water on the surface.
aries is a fire sign and so the focus  was on fruit.
i think i'll sow some more french beans that will extend the  season.
descending in energy.
during this phase, the earth is more absorbant.
so this afternoon was spent dodging showers and pricking  out lettuce, chervil, coriander, spinach beet and swiss chard, radicchio.
maybe  in a month's time.
the moon is now in gemini.
although, virgo being a working sign, i'm sure you'll find something that needs doing.
in the meantime, today was spent preparing  yet another bead for the all the planting that i'll be doing with the moon in  leo.
this isn't ideal as it means that energy has gone into seed production rather than into the bulbs for next year's flowers.
some also had rust on them.
as it's  a waxing moon, i also sowed some hollyhocks and foxgloves.
well the jungle is now tame enough for me to attend to details.
delicious but  confusing!!!
february waxing moon in aries sow aubergines, peppers, tomatoes, cape gooseberries indoors 14:29 sunday 26th february- 02:26
13/05/11 virgo is a sign  associated with harvest.
it's only because i have taken to covering it at night.
not allot that needs to be done as the moon is waning and in sagittarius.
they seem to love cabbage and coriander!
thanks to them, my breakfasts continue to be delicious!
true to  capricorn rather than having a lazy easter morning in bed, i was planting my  potatoes.
broadbeans are to be planted.
this is useful as it encourages strong root growth.
so it was  that i found myself picking olives.
i did plant one outdoors though just to see  how it does.
i'm also going to give my fig a new home today.
it's not a large crop, half a jar, but it's the largest ever and an unexpected bonus.
if you do so, try to do it early in the day so that they aren't wet at night if the heating goes off.
february- 10:28 sunday 19th february waning moon in capricorn good day for weeding, attending to compost heaps plant out garlic that's been started in seedtrays sow carrots, parsnips indoors 10:28 sunday 19th
christmas got in the way last week.
it's easy to think that the garden doesn't need watering in the winter
again, i'm thinking the harvest for both will just be delayed and as the packet of seeds' viability was only guaranteed for this year, i had nothing to lose.
borage  flowers were also picked.
the moon is  indeed in sagittarius, things are looking up!
take care to only removed branches that have fruited or  you'll reduce the fruit yield for later in the year.
actually, i decided to have a look at the comfrey concoction that i made a few weeks ago.
mine were obviously tastier!!!
it feels like summer and yet it's autumn and time to be planning for spring.
if you do so, try to do it early in the  day so that they aren't wet at night if the heating goes off.
like a parent unwilling to give up on her unpromising child, i defended my  misshapen parsnips on the grounds that looks don’t matter and that nobody  would know what they looked like, once they’d been cut.
sadly the burst of heat was short lived and the  rain is back!!!
but i like to use it to wash my face.
31/05/11 carrots and parsnips like soft, friable soil; soil that they can grow through without much resistance.
i was teaching on sunday and then came down with a  terrible cold.
if  you pull and there is resistance, they are not yet fully ripe.
13/11/11 i haven't had any time for the allotment the last few days.
then  that will be it for the winter.
the recent wet weather has made them more prone  to rot
27/10/11 with the moon in scorpio, the focus is on herbs and leaf vegetables.
actually the important thing  is also to remember not to put in cooked food, meat or dairy products as these  would attract mice and rats.
on the subject of tomatoes, at the rhs wisley gardens this afternoon, i noticed that their tomatoes were just beginning to ripen.
a few jobs needed doing that were overdue with last month having been taken up with hypnotherapy, nursing a cold and christmas.
my compost heap has been so big that i'd had to start another one.
31/05/11 carrots and parsnips like soft, friable soil; soil that they can grow  through without much resistance.
so i am now turning to the salsify.
i'm now happier about my nectarine tree too.
the snow has now melted, but i'm going to check whether  anything is still dry.
this is a sign of descending energy, so although the moon is still waxing, i felt it was good enough to plant the rest of my shallots and onions.
i got an  early harvest from a few last week.
a couple of days ago it was much smaller!
21/06/11 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jh9yoimnvoa the moon has been in pisces today.
it's now very full again!
i covered them with  plastic bottles just to protect them until i have time to create a netted cage  around them.
but, things are beginning to wind down now.
so this year, i've decided to grow them in large containers in the garden again.
in fact there were four.
other seeds ripe for collection are those of my foxgloves and my hollyhocks.
the fight with the slugs is continuing and to avoid further losses of celeriac and parsnips i've been sowing in seed trays and waiting for the plants to be big enough to plant in the allotment.
actually with the colder mornings, this is very welcome and soothing.
as you might imagine transforming my plot from a wilderness into a well tended garden has created large compost heaps.
29/04/11 more seed sowing today.
i've also pricked out sunflowers, and the few larkspur and nicotiana  seedlings left by the slugs!
actually, that will only happen if the rain  stops.
the  perfect crop to sow today was cauliflower.
this  means that it's in a water sign on a waxing moon.
i  find it hard to believe that we're not in for a shock, given the current summer  weather.
to do this, i'm going to simply cut the plant in half and pot up both pieces.
in the last few days with  tensions running so high, i've taken refuge there.
by then even the beans can be  sown outdoors.
3/11/11 early spring  often is holds a hungry gap.
as you have read, time and again i've written about my losing battle with slugs and snails.
the latter were started off in trays and just need to be put into the ground.
25/04/11 aquarius, is not a sign for gardening, so usually this is a  moon for enjoying the garden.
this will then create potash which will feed my strawberry beds and apple  trees.
this means  that house plants are not growing as actively as they might otherwise.
the green ones are ripening on a widow sill.
i think there will be caramelised onion tarts and french onion soups in the coming months!
my bramley apples are enourmous.
one final tip- if you have plants on the windowsill, and you close the  curtains at night, be sure to bring them into the room.
more potatoes were harvested and i've been  drying basil for the winter.
if you have garlic  that needs planting, today and tomorrow will be the right days for it.
i'll be harvesting more potatoes, checking on the turnips and radishes i planted last month and starting a new compost heap.
however as the moon is  waning, the best job will be pruning.
sweet and creamy beyond any parsnips i’ve had anywhere else.
this afternoon  the moon will go into libra.
well this is very necessary as i now have to stand on my tippy
i was wearing a rain coat and surprisingly enjoyed the  experience as the rain was quite soft.
happily, it all looks as though it's rotting nicely.
in fact  it wins awards every year.
i've also noticed that my olive tree is in bloom.
i'll continue to do so for a bit  longer.
i had even put my hosepipe away in the back of the shed.
4/06/11 yesterday morning the moon went  into the sign of cancer and it will remain ther until around 4pm tomorrow.
so i'll prick them out today and  put them in the mini-greenhouse.
this is obvious as we can see its influence on the tides, which are higher.
so the potatoes have all been harvested  which means that they are clean, safe from the attention of slugs, eelworm and  easily accessable.
but i noticed while watering the other day that some potatoes were peeking up  above the soil.
in fact i was surprised that they survived the previous winter's  harsh spell.
21/11/11 the moon is now in the air sign libra.
if you have sorrel, tomorrow will be a good day to increase your supply.
we've had some rain in the south east  at the weekend but not enough.
13/01/11 more fruit went in today.
the last of the apples were picked and tomatoes were also brought in.
the fact that the moon is in an air sign and waxing also made me think of my cauliflower seedlings.
the twelve signs also have another property- they are ascending or descending in energy.
i haven't been on the allotment today but did get to enjoy yesterday's harvest- a punnet of strawberries- in october?
that is to say, it's too early for all the early summer crops and the winter crops are done.
last year they survived our coldest winter and the snow, so it's worth looking after them as they provide a ready supply of greens through the winter.
so i had to forget the clock ticking as i pricked out aquilegias, cauliflower, purple sprouting broccoli, statice, pinks, chamomile, alyssum, and borage.
so the waxing properties of the moon encourage growth above ground  and the descending energy encourages healthy roots.
being  rather a novice compost maker, yesterday with the moon in the earth sign of  taurus, i invited my neighbour to come and look at my compost bin.
i can never leave without a new addition for the garden.
21/08/11 with the moon still in taurus, i  continued to focus on root vegetables.
that's why it's a good time to start now for  delicious sensations next year!
today with the moon in  capricorn, i turned to look at my root vegetables.
half not believing what i was doing, i found myself getting up to bring them in from the garden.
tricky and fiddly but worth it if i'm to avoid peach leaf curl next year.
it's very large and in a container in the garden.
i'm so grateful for my allotment!
thunderstorms yesterday evening meant that my potatoes had to wait until this morning to be planted.
so i'm watering my houseplants
some time on the allotment!
two beautiful ponies are currently being used to graze some  overgrown fields.
i did plant one outdoors though just to see how it does.
the moon is in aries.
9/04/11 what do snails prefer parsnips or carrots?
actually with the colder mornings, this is very welcome and  soothing.
the new canes are also quite  tall now and needed staking.
the moon will be in cancer
last year i  was too late planting sweetcorn to get a good crop so again i'm really hoping  things will be different this year.
but i'll enjoy trying.
they don't develop  deep roots which makes them more vulnerable during droughts.
february- 02:47 friday 24th
one thing that has helped is that i've let  grass grow over my paths.
i have been bringing young  plants in at night and forgot.
the final push also meant that yesterday i was  able to make use of the moon in a waxing fire sign (sagittarius) and finish  planting all fruit.
the recent heat has stimulated my courgettes into  very fast growth.
my redcurrant bush was dripping with fruit and the bowl i brought for harvesting was really nowhere near enough.
as it's a waxing moon in an air sign it's a good day to attend to flowers.
i also planted salsify and some more  red onions, which are late and i don't expect to harves before next spring.
sadly the clock's ticking meant that i didn't get to sow any of the seeds i wanted to sow today.
remember doing a  rain dance?
crop rotation is very necessary as it prevents a build up of pests and diseases associated with certain crops from building up in the soil.
i have, however, been thinking and planning.
as the moon is waning, there isn't much else to be  done.
i also tied back some floppy branches.
to this end, i spent the better part of yesterday afternoon digging a bed for them.
the greatest disappointments were all due to losses brought about by voracious slugs and snails.
it has outgrown its pot.
i shared it with my partner and it was delicious!!!!
this is very exciting as i've never made compost before!
biodynamic gardening has turned into quite an adventure.
to this end, i spent the better part of  yesterday afternoon digging a bed for them.
i'd better get started.
although last  night i dreamt that i'd woken up to snow in july.
as for the figs, i'm helping them to swell to a bigger size before  they ripen.
i noticed my cucumbers are doing well and look forward to my first salad with them.
in the  meantime, i've been dealing with some of the harvest.
indeed this was  the case, and they were absolutely delicious.
as for aubergines, i was undecided.
february waxing moon in pisces new moon 22:34-
30/12/11 a bad migraine has kept me indoors since  yesterday.
a very simple,  necessary and satisfying  job that can be done even with a migraine.
the anser is a  combination of weeds, grass cuttings, prunings, vegetable peels, fruit peels.
i found it in  three pieces!
it's nice to be picking strawberries and raspberries in september, but the real stars of the month are the apples.
21/04/11 like most people, i've been cooped up indoors all day but am now looking forward to some time on the allotment.
my bramley apples are  enourmous.
so in they will go, with my fingers firmly crossed.
my site isn't that big
with today's  moon in virgo, a sign most associated with detail, i created two fruit cages.
weeding around the lettuces and spinach beet has  revealed that they are in great shape and that i'll soon be having great salads  and stir fries.
this of course has been due to the wet and cool summer.
so i've now got them in big pots and as i clear it from other plants, they will have a dedicated space.
just one more row to bring in.
i can look forward  to a beautiful display in the containers in my garden.
i also planted more shallots and onions.
if the smell is indicative of the good it will do them,  they should thrive!!!
25/01/12 a waxing moon in pisces means that today is an easy day.
february- 14:29 sunday 26th
thank god it was a dream.
we can also feel its effect on us .
the potatoes are more than ready to go in, having been chitted and i really don't think they could wait for the waning moon in capricorn.
the hardest part is done.
i can't wait to pick the flowers and have that sweet scent in the house.
with  the moon in scorpio, my thoughts turned to water and a good soak was delivered.
you can do this by roughly pulling outone of the stems, ensuring that there's a bit of root attached to it.
i also spent some time  looking after my cabbages.
i will now wait for the waning moon in pisces to  plant my new treasures.
that is they grew into  sizeable bushes and did flower but never actually set fruit.
actually i'm looking at becoming more efficient  in weed control next year so that they have less places to hide.
having spent all summer last year clearing  brambles, bindweed and couch grass, this year i've been dealing with the weeds  that were dormant on the plot.
you may wonder why, but that is because in high winds, it has been taking flight and landing in neighbouring allotments.
i think  my strawberries will be the first to be fed.
i've planted broccoli, more aquilegias, statice and  pinks.
i was beginning to worry that it would collapse in the high winds and rain that we had in june.
i can hear them shivering already!
well i knew the moon in leo was going to be busy...
it feels like summer and yet  it's autumn and time to be planning for spring.
using clear  plastic bottles with their bottoms cut off as miniature greenhouses has also  been effective.
waxing  moon in taurus attend  to any compost jobs necessary 13/02/12
it  certainly felt abundant.
these are beautiful, a much more simple version of gladioli.
the sign associated with harvest, it is very helpful for  biodymanic gardeners.
i've kept a diagram of all the beds on the  allotment and what's been planted in them from the start (the last two years).
the moon has been in aries today, but as it's waning, this is a quiet time in the garden.
however, there was a fly in the  ointment.
i do hope the slugs leave some parsnips for me this time!
i'm also going to be sowing some annual  seeds.
today's job was to get rid of the grass.
however, the two that are  on the allotment were beginning to show signs of stress.
there is, however, always weeding.
it's been a while since my last blog, but  i have continued to work on my allotment.
a very new feeling and a very  enjoyable one!
these are beautiful, a much more  simple version of gladioli.
this is not good news as when exposed to light, they go green  which is poisonous.
sadly, my hunt continues.
21st water house plants 02:47 friday 24th
3/11/11 early spring often is holds a hungry gap.
blackberries are in abundance now.
libra is an air sign and air signs are linked with flowers, so  today is a flower day.
wonderful as my course was, i missed my allotment!!
it's been looking a bit anaemic, so to speak.
2/08/11 with the moon in virgo, i've turned my attention to roots- actually my potatoes.
keeping on  top of the weeds at this time of year is crucial.
this is an  air sign so it's a day for flowers.
giant beetroot- september middle of august picking raspberries picking spinach beet and swiss chard 1st apple harvest aubergine flower cucumbers ever growing compost heap runner beans squash and pumpkin patch this month in the garden (times listed are based on gmt) 22:01 sunday 12th
i diluted it about half the watering can to half water and proceeded to feed leaf vegetables and herbs.
3/05/11 one of my compost bins has been sitting in the shed for about two months.
the seeds look very much like tomatoes, as they are from the same family.
tomatoes have blight due to the lack of sun and excess rain.
driving into the south east from wales, i became  very aware of how parched everything looks compared to the west.
i've planted broccoli, more aquilegias, statice and pinks.
this is not the best time to deal with fruit.
one of my students brought me a bag of apples  from her tree and some apple chutney!
the  moon is in libra today and the sun is shining.
i picked some chamomile flowers, blended them together with oatmeal and put the mixture in a muslin bag.
i filled a bucket with comfrey leaves and then filled it  with water.
i had planned to plant cauliflower and purple  sprouting broccoli today but the recycling centre was out of compost and the  clay soil on a newly dug bed is just too harsh for young seedlings.
this is useful as it encourages strong  root growth.
14/09/11 raspberries can be tricky to prune.
i think i'll sow some more french beans that will extend the season.
i have a plastic mini greenhouse which my partner has screwed  to the back of my shed to stop it blowing away.
15/07/11 the moon in capricorn is now waning so it's a good time to sow more carrots, beetroot and radishes.
february waning moon in scorpio sow some vegetables or herbs indoors, greenhouses or propagators.
last year i battled through wind, rain and mud to harvest in winter.
i planted more parsnips (very late due slugs devouring previous plantings), beetroot, carrots, celeriac and spring onions.
i wasn't expecting any for another month.
so as the leaves start to develop, we need to at least part cover them with earth.
i have been bringing young plants in at night and forgot.
with today's moon in virgo, a sign most associated with detail, i created two fruit cages.
they were like honey and for a few moments, i was on holiday in spain!
wednesday 29th february waxing moon in taurus
this surprised me as i though  it would be too wet.
i got an early harvest from a few last week.
this year's  crop looks a little thinner than last year's so i'm hoping the cherries will be  bigger!
i'll also be feeding my japanese laurel.
although it feels like everything is dying, i'm planning for  next year.
i'm also bringing in more of my herbs for drying.
i sowed these seeds last year and they're now ready  to plant in a border.
9/04/11 what do snails prefer parsnips or  carrots?
it's staying indoors for the winter to stop it from being exposed to  cold rain as this will mean that it won't get peach tree wilt.
but take care that you don't use too much in one meal as it's it's high in oxalic acid.
so i sowed more lettuce, swiss chard,  spinach beet, radiccio and - coriander!
having said that, it clearly shows my unease  over unseasonal weather, even though the sun is shining, with the weirdness of  our weather, we could yet see frosts before june!
so liquid feeds are best at this time.
then plant it and you'll find a new  plant growing soon.
the final push also meant that yesterday i was able to make use of the moon in a waxing fire sign (sagittarius) and finish planting all fruit.
however, the beds in which i planted my peas were over-run with one of the many banes of an allotment holder' s life- couch grass.
the moon is in sagittarius.
my attention was  turned to fruit.
so i decided to plant half in the green house  with the cucumbers and the other half out on the allotment.
happily my shallots are  ready to be lifted.
still it is done and already half full of weeds!!!
30/09/11 moon in  scorpio is meant to be a good moon for dealing with pests.
6/08/11 with the moon still in scorpio, i  have been watering and feeding my houseplants.
this is for the benefit of my  plants not my dinner.
water your house plants and any container plants in the garden that might be in need.
so tomatoes, cucumbers, aubergines, olives and figs have had some attention in between showers, doing a radio show and teaching today!
during a trial in my garden ( a trial that i did not give consent to)  the favourite appears to be parsnips.
that is they grew into sizeable bushes and did flower but never actually set fruit.
this means that i was planting in the rain.
one of my students kindly brought some woodash he's collected from his wood burning stove, so i can use that to feed the fruit on the allotment.
i think i'll be better at remembering to bring them in, in  future.
also remember  that plants with furry foliage are prone to rotting if their leaves are wet.
may your harvest this year be abundant and bring you great  joy!
this meant that my attempts to improve my sticky, clay  soil were limited.
i think i might just be in time.
this means that house plants are not growing as actively as they might otherwise.
they are making delicious apples tarts!!!
the rain is keeping me off the allotment  this morning but there is a little job that needs doing.
aquarius is not the best sign for any gardening activity, but at the moment it is the only air sign in which the moon is in the waxing phase.
the slugs and snails are thriving in this wet weather and of course they regard my plantings as their personal supermarket!
9/05/11 this is going to be a busy day.
i harvested more potatoes, some of which are massive.
i didn't deadhead my lilies earlier in the season and so they are producing seed.
cape gooseberries/ physallis, did very well last year.
this is not the best time for planting leaf vegetables or herbs, so rather than spend time gardening, i went to the rhs gardens at wisley.
my fuchsias were hit hard by the winter.
just as well, i found three snails munching through my parsnips and five on  their way to young carrots!
my cherries are doing well but could use a feed.
if they reach the sky, i hope there isn't a giant up  there!
i remember last year, planting onions one afternoon after  work, being very cold and looking anxiously at a sky threatening to pour with  rain.
if you still have any potatoes in the ground, bring them in.
it will also allow fruit to be more exposed to the sun  during the ripening stage.
the  nice thing is, that if i run out of time, there's also tomorrow!
and i have had to remove many.
so i potted my cucumbers on.
i've planted them in a nursery bed on the allotment with a view to have some to cut and bring indoors, but also to then find room for them in the front garden.
in fact, i've resorted to bringing seedtrays in at night!
i've noticed that all my current bushes are now flowering and have  decided that this will be a good day to net them to prevent bird damage.
this enables the tree to concentrate  its resources on the remaining fruit, producing bigger apples.
the nice thing is, that if i run out of time, there's also tomorrow!
it was great to be on jeni barnett's show  on radio london.
it's been a long time coming and the final push took a lot of determination but
we've been getting a mix of sun and cloud everyday but they really need a few days of clear skies and sunshine!!!
i think i'll try to get a hold of some.
they're looking big and healthy so should be able to cope with attention from the slug population.
i am still off today, thankfully as i have pumpkins and more  peas to put in.
there has been a big shift with the quality of my strawberries.
i weeded around them and applied a dressing of compost.
i'll wait for the compost to come in and then plant them next week when the moon goes into libra.
1/05/11 as the  moon is still waning and in aries, today i fed the cherry, pear, apple, peach,  nectarine and plum trees.
of course there is another capricorn link to this and that is that this is the sign most associated with hard work!
then i'll start to prepare the bed for the  potatoes which will go in when the moon's in virgo.
and i'm still thinking about what to do with the  whitecurrants and the gooseberries.
in the meantime, i've been dealing with some of the harvest.
there has been a big shift with  the quality of my strawberries.
so a happy medium  is needed.
i diluted  it about half the watering can to half water and proceeded to feed leaf  vegetables and herbs.
last year, my priority was to tame the wilderness that was my allotment  and plant it.
so once again, i noticed that some of my raspberries have dead wood which i pruned out.
but it is also a good time to prune, and feed.
i've also been checking the  turnips and oriental radishes that i planted last month.
the rule is that when the  moon is waxing we deal with plants above ground, the exception being leaf  vegetables.
in the meantime, i prepared a  bed to plant the cauliflowers and purple sprouting broccoli tomorrow.
by then even the beans can be sown outdoors.
i'm so glad that i  openedthe bucket in the open air instead of in the shed!!!!
i picked some chamomile flowers, blended them  together with oatmeal and put the mixture in a muslin bag.
consequently gardeners often recommend that they be treated as annual plants and bought every year.
now, we're enjoying a hot dry spell, we have a reprieve.
summer fruiting raspberries fruit on the previous  year's growth so they're best left at the moment or you'll lose next year's  fruit.
one of my beds needed some attention, clearing weeds, etc.
the perfect crop to sow today was cauliflower.
but i figure  that the worst that can happen is that i'll have some early onions next year.
this is a  sign of renewal.
i know what i like too and took advantage of the moon in gemini to plant some lavender and a couple of japonese anemones.
the same feed that i use for the camellia and magnolia should help.
it's been a while since i've had the time to write this blog.
then you clear it again and more will germinate in time to clear a third time when the moon is in capricorn.
so today, it was gooseberry sauce and tomorrow it will be gooseberry  jam.
lots of seed was sown, coriander, dill and other herbs as well as cabbage.
it's one of the few places where we still find community  spirit.
with the moon in scorpio, my thoughts turned to water and a good soak was delivered.
although last night i dreamt that i'd woken up to snow in july.
so it's time to feed fruit like tomatoes, aubergines, cucumbers, peppers, courgettes, pumpkins and squashes.
and so it was  that each parsnip, due to its many contortions took twenty minutes to wash in  the garden, be scrubbed in the kitchen and then finally cut, with all the  little crevices cleaned.
so my beans and two more varieties of squashes went in.
i decided not to prick out the seedlings i planted when the moon was in scorpio as they were too small.
one of my very experienced allotment neighbours reassured me that if  i did that now, they'd still be ok.
one of my allotment neighbours gave me a clump of crocosmia  crocosmiflora, otherwise known and monbretia.
it will take a  few years to produce a bulb large enough to flower
the strawberries got a feed too as did the  raspberries, the blueberries and cranberries.
have a go and you'll be healthier throug the winter.
at the moment, i'm harvesting soft fruit.
if you don't you're  leaving them exposed to the cold air coming in through the glass, especially if  you don't have double glazing and you're depriving them of the heat in the room  because the curtains act like a barrier.
one thing that has helped is that i've let grass grow over my paths.
i also include herbal tea bags.
i'm going to sow some on the allotment to ensure that there's a good supply of pollen for bees.
also remember that plants with furry foliage are prone to rotting if their leaves are wet.
the moon has been in cancer today.
so perfect for dealing with all fruit matters.
the rest is enjoyed through the summer with yoghurt for breakfast.
the ground is more absorbant during a waning moon, so this is a good time to water and feed.
this seemed  such a mysterious process when i first did it last year.
i do have a third just in case, but it would be really nice if they would leave this batch to me!!!
indoors and here they will remain until they are big enough to contend with  molluscs!
16/09/11 today the moon is in taurus.
19/08/11 with the moon still in aries this morning, i continued to focus on fruit.
they taste sweeter like a cross between a melon and a grape.
tomatoes though seem to be slow to ripen this year.
the only fruit  trees that i'm still feeding are the olive and the fig tree.
this meant clearing the patch where it belonged of weeds, and then digging a small circle into which to push it and secure it.
i will leave it for a while and then when it is  suitably stinky, it will provide a very nutritious feed for my plants.
they need  acid soil so you need to ensure that what you feed is appropriate for them.
otherwise they develop into odd, contorted shapes.
water moons are related to foliage plants and these are best delt with on a waning moon.
if they peep  above the ground, then they are exposed to the light andwill go green.
what i didn't enjoy was the slugs, which believe that the plot is theirs in this weather.
since having an allotment, i have developed an interest in biodynamics.
i'm also going to be sowing some annual seeds.
this includes citrus peels as long as these are free of juice, they're not that acid
24/05/11 being on holiday is wonderful, but coming home is always a delight for me.
this meant that my parsnips in particular looked like  something out of a parsnip horror movie!
it's all about flowers, including broccoli.
now my  original heap is smaller, and i know that i can burn more material from it.
31/08/11 the moon is in libra today.
i'm actually planning to be up before 7 tomorrow, on my day off so that i can have some time gardening before the rain!
after putting the  wheelbarrow away, i stopped to have a chat with the proud holders of a plot  which is without a doubt the prettiest and best kept on the whole site.
planting will be done at a more ideal time.
you can already see the little peaches  forming on it.
21/08/11 with the moon still in taurus, i continued to focus on root vegetables.
i have never had blight there and have managed to pick tomatoes in november due to the shelter from the walls.
as for my beans, well they're looking like i had jack's magic bean.
i planted my last batch in november  but ran out of time.
this isn't ideal as it means that energy has gone into  seed production rather than into the bulbs for next year's flowers.
i'm also planning to make a strawberry  sauce that i could freeze and then use to flavour yoghurts, ice cream, cakes,  etc.
however, during dry periods, i also water on waxing moons.
then there is the rose  garden which at this time of year is filled with scent.
this is not good news as when exposed to light, they go green which is poisonous.
31/01/12 one of the wonderful things about allotments is the fact that there's  always someone on hand who can tell you what you need to know.
the moon was still in capricorn this morning
if it doesn't get this, you will get a very fat bulb without division into separate cloves.
i finally got the chance to plant my garlic.
the thing is that today is especially windy again and so this proved to be a challenging job.
perhaps pruning could wait until next week when the moon's cycle will be further from the full moon.
also there are beans and squashes that need pricking out.
a couple of weeks ago i was doing an intense hypnotherapy course which meant that there was no time for gardening.
the most i've done is water  the house plants.
but everytime the moon was right, i was too busy and ran out of time.
that is to say, it's too early for all the early  summer crops and the winter crops are done.
maybe in a month's time.
i only have two more left ripening on the tree.
the moon is in leo and it's waxing now.
although i did leave an undersized one which not only has survived the cold nights but is growing well!
so i'll prick them out today and put them in the mini-greenhouse.
i'll be sowing more tomato seeds along with more peas.
the other difference is that during the  sunny weather, i could smell them while i was working on the allotment.
they came with couch grass attached.
the moon is now in scorpio.
they need to be measured so that i could create a kind of tent shelter around them.
to come are the blackberries.
the moon is in capricorn so i'm turning my attention to potatoes  today.
otherwise  i'll wait for the waning moon next month.
with a little protection from the worst of the winter weather, i should have at least one crop in the early spring.
they would look around they said and let me know.
but i figure that the worst that can happen is that i'll have some early onions next year.
spring has been very dry here and the ground is hard.
yesterday it was rhubarb, oregano as mine died in the hard winter, and  some coriander as slugs keep eating my seedlings.
there's usually a second chance for most things.
this means that it was my only  chance this month to plant my tulip bulbs.
the moon is still in taurus so it's a good day to tend to the compost.
back in the autumn i sowed a batch of  seed.
the peach already has tiny peaches  forming and this one has only just begun to wake from its winter slumber.
the soft fruit is all in.
aquarius is not a great day for gardening so it's a time to enjoy the garden.
if you are growing potatoes in containers, this is easy to do.
but she then told me that i could borrow her wheelbarrow  and take all the burnable material to where she was creating a heap for a  bonfire.
i dug them up and put them in the greenhouse.
but i also did another important job.
for once i worked in comfort on a portable table in my hallway.
happily it's all done and i look forward to a crop-
i think i may have been too late but time will tell.
i've also pricked out sunflowers, and the few larkspur and nicotiana seedlings left by the slugs!
if you're wondering how you can grow salad leaves in winter, then all you need is a window sill.
looking back, i remember accidently cutting back  the flowers- no flowers, no seed.
these need protection, not from frost but from cold rain.
the moon is now waning in the sign of  leo so it's time to do some pruning.
low light levels are to  blame.
manolias and camellias develop their flower buds during august so it's important that they are fed and kept well watered during this period.
so it was that despite the fact that the moon is waxing and root vegetables are best planted on waning moons, i planted some forgotten red onion sets.
the new canes are also quite tall now and needed staking.
i'm very excited about this as i've never had the space to grow flowers specifically for the house.
then that will be it for the winter.
the moon was still in aquarius.
they were over ten years old, so i guess they were more vulnerable.
september- sharing the beauty with a friend.
i covered them with plastic bottles just to protect them until i have time to create a netted cage around them.
you might enjoy a little video clip that was taken on tuesday when the moon was still in capricorn.
thanks to them, my breakfasts continue  to be delicious!
it's going to be a busy few days.
this is the joy of winter.
12/05/11 last year i was too busy taming the jungle that was my  overgrown allotment, to have time to attend to things like netting fruit.
so today, i watered my house plants and took a walk in the  countryside.
it's a very easy way to propagate strawberries and at this time of year  they are very busy multiplying.
this is ideal for putting in the bath
i'd  better get started.
they need acid soil so you need to ensure that what you feed is appropriate for them.
i then cut back the comfrey once again and used  its leaves to make another batch.
i thought about pricking out some carrot and  fennel seedlings but decided to wait for the moon in capricorn as they still  look quite young.
although it feels like everything is dying, i'm planning for next year.
i tried to water the allotment today but found that rodents had chewed through my hose pipe!
still it's all ready for the last of the potatoes which  didn't get to go in last time.
today the moon is in  sagittarius as i've been working i haven't been able to do much, and anyway it  was raining.
a busy gardening day today.
i think it will be ok because the aim of chitting is for the potatoes to start developing buds and i think a waxing moon may actually speed this up.
this meant that my attempts to improve my sticky, clay soil were limited.
the  currant bushes fruited well this year and needed a little attention.
the apple blossom is exquisite.
weeding around the lettuces and spinach beet has revealed that they are in great shape and that i'll soon be having great salads and stir fries.
so once the leaves have fallen,  i'll need to cover them with clear plastic so that they don't get wet but still  have light.
this is an earth sign so i focused on earthy matters.
these are easily grown in containers.
this makes it easier to plan crop rotation.
so with the moon in aquarius, and it being a day to think about flowers, i turned my thoughts to spring.
in fact it wins awards every year.
the link between water moons and leaves is due to the fact that the actual body of a plant is largely made up of water.
so when the moon is in virgo, we can do things that we  haven't had the chance to do because of very busy lives.
the trouble is that salsify is not a common vegetable and no one has been able to tell me whether it's possible to store them in the same way that i store potatoes.
i also bought one of my favourite herbs of all time- lemon verbena.
so i'm comforting myself in the knowledge that the earth is drinkingly  deeply and keeping my fingers crossed for a break in the weather for the sake  of my cauliflowers!
i gave her some strawberry runners and salsify.
but she then told me that i could borrow her wheelbarrow and take all the burnable material to where she was creating a heap for a bonfire.
aries is a fire sign and so the focus was on fruit.
my  strawberry patch was a joy last year but plants were growing too close together  by the end of the season.
i'm looking forward to some colder weather just so that i can  feel that i'm on top of things.
it would be  good to get some significant rain before the new moon.
sadly for me, due to the fact that it's my second year on  an allotment that had been abandoned for three years, weeding happens on a  daily basis.
this is my third attempt at coriander this year, the slugs have had every plant so far.
tomorrow there will be more seed sowing.
i also planted salsify and some more red onions, which are late and i don't expect to harves before next spring.
seedlings in pots could also use a drink.
this is what happened to my pot marigold, borage and chamomile.
i was away for four days and returned to growth that might have been  expected after two weeks!
i do hope the  slugs leave some parsnips for me this time!
this will come in handy as it's likely that my store of onions will be dwindling by then.
the latter were started  off in trays and just need to be put into the ground.
many of you interested in organic gardening will be familiar with some of the principles placing emphasis on the health of the soil.
the moon is now waning in the sign of leo so it's time to do some pruning.
does anyone know a rain  dance?
but there is a price to pay for this glorious spring we've been enjoying.
the sauce can again be used with yoghurt and desserts as well as being frozen.
i removed them and then earthed up the visible  potatoes.
today the moon is in pisces.
my cherries are doing well but could  use a feed.
redcurrants will be turned into a jelly
this year's cherry harvest has been very limited compared to  last year.
jam, jellies, tonics, and sauces have been made.
but happily the moon will still be  waxing when it goes into libra next week.
these need  protection, not from frost but from cold rain.
aquarius is not  the best sign for any gardening activity, but at the moment it is the only air  sign in which the moon is in the waxing phase.
so i'm taking a leaf out of nature's book and  sowing some now and some in spring.
click on the link and enjoy!
garlic needs exposure to about three weeks of very cold weather,  preferably with frost.
this year the focus has been on getting  the allotments in order whilst planting.
the moon has been in aries today, so my attention was on fruit.
there is still a little daylight left, so if you haven't done it yet, there's still time.
normal tea has too much  tannin which would acidify the compost.
good job i had some time off this last week.
i also sowed some parsnip and celeriac seeds.
you can plant them very  deep and this increases their reliability, but i find the best thing to do is  to lift the bulbs when the foliage has died down, store them in a dark and  ventilated place, planting them in november or december.
i ran out of time today but  tomorrow the moon will still be in capricorn.
this will then create potash which will feed my strawberry beds and apple trees.
more potatoes were harvested and i've been drying basil for the winter.
as this is my last chance to have these this year, i think it was worth getting out of bed.
i think that it may be that when it was in blossom we had some very  bad windy and wet weather, so it's possible that there weren't as many insects  around to pollinate fully.
manolias and camellias develop their flower buds during august so it's  important that they are fed and kept well watered during this period.
so when the moon is in virgo, we can do things that we haven't had the chance to do because of very busy lives.
so i planted some aquilegias,  also known as columbines.
but i'm constantly reminded of this by bindweed and bramble shoots poking out their heads all over.
i wonder if they'll grow extra large having been planted on a moon jupiter conjunction!
a waxing moon in a fire sign means it's a planting day.
ideally, i would have  done it when the moon was last in capricorn
while  i was sick in bed, my apricot tree arrived with three small blueberry bushes.
but i'm also looking forward to spring!
an easier job was the planting of sweet cicely.
so i planted a few in pots also in the mini green  house.
of late it's leaves have been losing their vivid green colour.
biodynamic gardening has  turned into quite an adventure.
time was not on my side as digging down a meter in some places is slow, gruelling work.
so i soaked the roots in  a bucket to rehydrate it and then a couple of hours later, it was planted in a  container.
it's worth feeding the olives, i know that i get better results when i have done so in the past.
so all in all a quiet day in terms of gardening, but these days are just right for enjoyment!
wonderful as my course was, i  missed my allotment!!
when i was a teacher, children were always more hyper around the full moon.
may your harvest this year be abundant and bring you great joy!
it's my first time doing all of this.
remember doing a rain dance?
this is such an improvement on last year when i had four gooseberries and two of them were had by the pigeons!
this relates to the time of year.
as the moon is in aries and is now waxing, this is a good day to attend to your fruit.
i need to do the same for my cranberry.
they know what they like!
so i cut off the  dead branches to allow the new life to come through.
when these  touch the soil, they form roots.
potatoes,  that is the tubers that we plant, need to be kept from light.
these may need watering more frequently if the weather is dry.
my breakfasts are changing, and  reflecting the end of the season too.
half not believing  what i was doing, i found myself getting up to bring them in from the garden.
i'm looking forward to being back there again tomorrow.
this  means that i took away dead leaves and noticed that i had some rust on other  leaves.
i fed the tomatoes,  figs, olives, cucumbers and aubergines.
i was beginning to worry that it would collapse in the  high winds and rain that we had in june.
just as well, i found three snails munching through my parsnips and five on their way to young carrots!
anything that was prone to frost came in as there were a few very cold nights.
if that's a sign of things to come, i will be having a very good strawberry season indeed.
although it's better today, i've still needed quiet.
i'm still harvesting some strawberries but with less regularity.
i sowed the seeds last month and they're doing well.
the courgettes came in too.
ideally they'd be planted when the moon goes into gemini, but actually they're growing quickly and are desperate for more roomy pots.
other fruit family in need of pruning at this time of year, is the currant family.
this one is bigger so i think i'm in with a  chance.
it means that  watering and feeding is crucial, but it also makes for a longer growing season
the moon is  in scorpio and this is a water sign.
it  feels like i'm ready for winter.
29/05/11 the moon went into taurus  this afternoon and it was nice to have unlimited time on my allotment for a  change.
i still feel my profound  shock!
after putting the wheelbarrow away, i stopped to have a chat with the proud holders of a plot which is without a doubt the prettiest and best kept on the whole site.
being an earth sign,  taurus meant that it was time to deal with root vegetables.
the anser is a combination of weeds, grass cuttings, prunings, vegetable peels, fruit peels.
but happily the moon will still be waxing when it goes into libra next week.
quiet days in the garden are good days to do little jobs.
it too will feed the bees, and provide me  with wonderful scent when i'm working.
as for the olives, they're a bonus.
i've noticed a few small branches on my peach  which are dead, so they'll be coming off.
i haven't been on the allotment today but did get to enjoy  yesterday's harvest- a punnet of strawberries- in october?
it's nice to still be sowing seeds at this time of year.
i'm itching to go back on monday.
the moon is still in libra and flowers continued to be the focus today.
happily the beds alloted for my onions, were already prepared a couple of months ago so there was no battle to be done with couch grass.
thankfully, with  the moon in virgo there are many jobs which can be done.
just look out for the next moon in leo, as it will be waxing in fire.
alternatively, you might find that when you pull on an old  stem, there is a little shoot of a new plant attached to it.
i have never had blight there and have managed to  pick tomatoes in november due to the shelter from the walls.
today's job is to split the peppermint.
the bonus yesterday was finding a tiny brown lizard.
i think that it may be that when it was in blossom we had some very bad windy and wet weather, so it's possible that there weren't as many insects around to pollinate fully.
it's an exciting experiement.
the problem is that they look so similar that i'm finding it difficult to determine which are which!
waning moons are good for harvesting and preserving.
at this time of year, seeds are still germinating and although the weeds have slowed down, there is still enough to keep me busy.
tomatoes, sweet pepper and okra, pea seedlings are looking big enough to be pricked out.
in fact they had begun to sprout on their own.
this means that everything is soaked about once a week.
so today is a day for reading seed catalogues.
growing them on the allotment made them prone to blight.
it was lovely to do  so in warm sunshine for a change!
i planted my last batch in november but ran out of time.
i found it in three pieces!
but everytime the moon was right,  i was too busy and ran out of time.
so once again, i noticed that some of my  raspberries have dead wood which i pruned out.
that taught me the value of having some produce in store so that i don't have to go out everyday regardless of the weather.
last week was spent bringing in the last of the harvest.
this year's cherry harvest has been very limited compared to last year.
with the moon in a water sign, i decided to thin them in the hope that they will grow nice and fat in the early spring.
the allotment  is still being enjoyed through the food i'm eating.
i can't quite believe that i'm going to enjoy a second  crop of figs this year without even leaving the uk!
so i'll be checking on my herbs.
the moon  is still in taurus so it's a good day to tend to the compost.
rain had been expected but it didn't arrive and with young seedlings, and the heat, i didn't want to risk waiting to see if rain would arrive tonight.
replacements were promptly and generously  offered as she said she had too many.
my plot was a jungle of brambles, bindweed and couch grass only a year ago.
seedlings in pots could  also use a drink.
while i was sick in bed, my apricot tree arrived with three small blueberry bushes.
there is a great crop ready to be harvested and i'm just about to head  out.
pumpkin soup has proved to  be delicious and popular with all my students!
watering on waning water moons is usually enough if necessary.
i decided not to prick out the seedlings i planted when the moon  was in scorpio as they were too small.
being  a waning water moon means that the focus has been on leafy vegetables.
my fuchsias were  hit hard by the winter.
so i planted some aquilegias, also known as columbines.
i have yet to net them, so they have had little protection from pigeons and cabbage white butterflies.
this is a waxing moon in leo.
so i'm comforting myself in the knowledge that the earth is drinkingly deeply and keeping my fingers crossed for a break in the weather for the sake of my cauliflowers!
i'm looking at everything and thinking that i had better start winding things down before the frosts come.
i didn't manage to get everything done yesterday so today saw me spend a very long time on my allotment planting peas.
of course to do this, i need to ensure that the leaves are dry when i bring them in.
leek and  chicken pie-
dill as my first batch succombed to scorching from the sun in the greenhouse which i forgot to ventilate.
this is because of the shorter days.
they are an indulgence wich will provide cut flowers for the house in the spring.
i'm also planning to make a strawberry sauce that i could freeze and then use to flavour yoghurts, ice cream, cakes, etc.
6/04/11 what a glorious sunny day!!!
in the uk, i've only ever seen these on tv.
crop rotation is very  necessary as it prevents a build up of pests and diseases associated with  certain crops from building up in the soil.
the greatest  disappointments were all due to losses brought about by voracious slugs and  snails.
i then cut back the comfrey once again and used its leaves to make another batch.
so  today has been a day for watering the allotment, all container plants,  seedlings and house plants.
this surprised me as i though it would be too wet.
i was wearing a rain coat and surprisingly enjoyed the experience as the rain was quite soft.
it's staying indoors for the winter to stop it from being exposed to cold rain as this will mean that it won't get peach tree wilt.
fingers crossed once again.
tomatoes have  blight due to the lack of sun and excess rain.
these are painted with an arabic powder and rose  water paste to be crystallised and used for cake decorations.
i do hope the carrots and parsnips will be straight this time!
there wasn't any time for gardening
i'll wait  for the compost to come in and then plant them next week when the moon goes  into libra.
the problem is that  they look so similar that i'm finding it difficult to determine which are which!
my strawberries are flowering again!
last week i was doing the second part of an intensive hypnotherapy course.
my thoughts have turned to earthy matters.
the moon was still in libra this afternoon.
being outdoors was not an option.
now, we're enjoying a hot  dry spell, we have a reprieve.
31/08/11 the moon is in  libra today.
this is no longer the case and this means that they're no longer as sweet as they were.
i've lost two, and i removed their twiggy remains; but i was very happy to notice new growth coming from the base of the third.
with all the rain we've been having, i'm not sure this will be  possible.
last year  they didn't do very well on the allotment but that may be because they were  growing next to some large cape gooseberries which meant that there was hardly  any light available for them.
when these touch the soil, they form roots.
yesterday i gave strawberry runners to someone else.
the strawberries got a feed too as did the raspberries, the blueberries and cranberries.
- guestbook the moon and biodynamics
the moon is in leo, whilst still  waning, i decided to cut back some of the foliage of my tomatoes.
13/11/11 i haven't had any time for the  allotment the last few days.
coming  home was less fun though as i had to dig over a large area of the allotment  again in very hot sun.
20/07/11 rain, rain and more rain.
they were making their way to my courgettes, an offense payable by death!
the sun is shining again today.
i'm looking at everything and  thinking that i had better start winding things down before the frosts come.
they were over ten years old, so i guess they were more  vulnerable.
this is a water sign, so it's time to think about leaves and herbs.
i had begun to grow impatient and a  little worried that it might be dead!
it may not feel like summer but it still  feels like a time of great abundance!
this morning i picked more wonderful strawberries!
the moon is  waning once again.
this morning i planted  carrots, parsnips, beetroot and celeriac.
just a bit of weeding and they settled in nicely.
the fruit has been worth it!
perhaps pruning could wait until next  week when the moon's cycle will be further from the full moon.
nevertheless, i did manage to get out  into the garden to plant some basil and a lemon verbena.
if you don't you're leaving them exposed to the cold air coming in through the glass, especially if you don't have double glazing and you're depriving them of the heat in the room because the curtains act like a barrier.
they too deserved a feed.
indeed this was the case, and they were absolutely delicious.
30/12/11 a bad migraine has kept me indoors since yesterday.
i'm getting a bit  desperate.
in fact,  i've resorted to bringing seedtrays in at night!
if you are growing them in the ground, it's easier to do it, if you have  grown them in rows.
that will be quite enough for today.
this year's crop looks a little thinner than last year's so i'm hoping the cherries will be bigger!
this reminded me of how far i've come.
that's the great thing about biodynamics, there's usually another day!
winter signs, signs related to the time after the winter solstice and before the summer solstice are signs of ascending energy.
as a biodynamic  gardener, i'm supposed to make a special preparation and put it in a cow's horn  to then bury it.
so today was the day.
not without visiting the shop first, of course!
it's been a long time coming and the final push took a lot of determination but  i wanted to be free!
if you've finished all your jobs for the moon in  virgo, yesterday, today is a day to enjoy the garden.
i find this to be  the perfect time for them as by the spring, i have run out of onions.
you know they are at their sweetest when you can pick them easily.
i'll also provide some for my cherry tree for the same  reason.
with the moon in the earth sign of virgo, yesterday and today, the focus has been on compost.
this made it an ideal day to sow flower seeds.
vegetables don’t come clean and prepared from the plot.
i had begun to grow impatient and a little worried that it might be dead!
and i was rewarded when i got home, with  some blossom on my nectarine tree!
3/02/12 a waxing moon in gemini means that it's a flower day, so this afternoon was all about cauliflowers.
in fact i was surprised that they survived the previous winter's harsh spell.
this seemed such a mysterious process when i first did it last year.
it was  like having a potting shed, but warmer.
i think it was some time in mid-august when i last watered the allotment.
so once the leaves have fallen, i'll need to cover them with clear plastic so that they don't get wet but still have light.
that was a real test to my commitment to eat my own produce!!!
on another note, i'm also going to plant a honeysuckle against my shed.
i'll just check  to see all is as it should be.
still at last there is hope!
dill as my first batch succombed to scorching from the sun  in the greenhouse which i forgot to ventilate.
the recent wet weather has made them more prone to rot
remember that this includes  flowering vegetables too.
25/10/11 autumn is the time in which we lay the groundwork for next year.
runners are the way in which strawberries propagate themselves.
so it was that last week, when the moon was in another earth  sign, virgo, i found myself at a farm shop asking them whether their cattle had  horns.
all manner of jobs work out well during this moon, so i'm  chancing putting in my potatoes, onions and shallots.
these are very large and growing in containers.
as for the olives, they're  a bonus.
25/11/11 with the moon in sagittarius (a fire sign), my thoughts turned to fruit.
i removed them and then earthed up the visible potatoes.
whatever happens outside,  nature just goes on oblivious to our madness.
they are late but previous attention from slugs and snails have left me with one parsnip plant!
i think i'll be spending a happy hour deciding what to order for next year.
this means that  everything is soaked about once a week.
rain had been expected but it didn't arrive and with  young seedlings, and the heat, i didn't want to risk waiting to see if rain  would arrive tonight.
2/11/11 the moon is in aquarius.
on the other hand, it might be time to tidy things up a little.
they are late but as they are winter  hardy, i'm looking forward to harvesting them in the spring.
this is a water sign, so it's time to think about leaves and  herbs.
today's job  was to get rid of the grass.
in fact the idea is that if  you're clearing land, you do so when the moon is in capricorn to start, then  you do it again when the moon is in leo.
this includes citrus peels as long as these are free of juice, they're not that  acid
this time i planted turnips, an oriental  radish variety as well as more beetroot and carrots.
i also spent some time looking after my cabbages.
it was an  opportunity to admire everyone's plots which look wonderful!
i say half, it sounds like large numbers but actually there were only four plants!
this is quite a tough plant that can withstand  some rough treatment.
i'm also sowing some turnips.
with all the rain we've been having, i'm not sure this will be possible.
this is a sign of renewal.
they have now been  marinated in olive oil, a splash of vinegar, garlic, oregano and salt.
winter signs, signs  related to the time after the winter solstice and before the summer solstice  are signs of ascending energy.
in fact i spent 7 hours in total clearing the  rest of my allotment.
16/04/11 i had planned to plant my honeysuckle today but ran out of  time.
i sowed  courgettes, french, borlotti and runner beans as well as pumpkins and cobnut  squash.
summer fruiting raspberries fruit on the previous year's growth so they're best left at the moment or you'll lose next year's fruit.
more recycling, the rest will continue to rot down to create beautiful  compost that will make the clay soil more friendly to young plants.
mine are still fruiting so i'm leaving them for the time being.
last year my greatest success were the strawberries.
my  strawberries are flowering again!
actually i'm looking at becoming more efficient in weed control next year so that they have less places to hide.
it's hard to believe now,
i find it hard to believe that we're not in for a shock, given the current summer weather.
instead it's porridge with apples and cinnamon.
then i think i'll net some more of the fruit to keep the birds away.
also  when there were bowls in the fridge and  the fridge was opened, you were  hit by the smell of strawberries.
this  is a flower day, so my attention turned to my magnolia and camellia.
this is an earth sign so i focused on  earthy matters.
i've been meaning to prick them out and put them in more comfortable  quarters- that's bigger pots, since december.
so this year, i've  decided to grow them in large containers in the garden again.
then you clear it  again and more will germinate in time to clear a third time when the moon is in  capricorn.
the moon has been in libra today so the focus has been on flowers and flowering vegetables.
i planted cabbages, swiss chard, spinach beat and celery.
i remember last year, planting onions one afternoon after work, being very cold and looking anxiously at a sky threatening to pour with rain.
i think this is a waste and there is a better way of dealing with them.
june is the month when apple trees often shed excess fruit.
she also said that even if the tops go green, i could remove the green part and enjoy the rest safely.
the deluge will undoubtedly be with us soon- probably just in time for my birthday!
given that i'm late, this could be a good thing.
the moon has been in  cancer today.
now what's left is healthy and in great shape to see me through the  winter.
i left a  bramble to grow on the edge of my plot so as to keep the delicious fruit,  although of course i know for its sweetness, it's actually a thug with world  domination as its aim.
there have been a few surprises but none greater than the fact that i'm still  picking strawberries and raspberries.
i had some left over and put them on the allotment again, just in case  we get an indian summer.
this time i've put them somewhere safe- indoors and here they will remain until they are big enough to contend with molluscs!
i think they need a longer growing season.
my partner went back to the  recycling centre and brought bags of beautiful compost.
1/07/11 my gooseberries were wonderful and have  been turned into a sauce which will be used to flavour cakes and desserts.
you can also sow cress and lettuce that you can pick and eat while growing on the window sill.
if you have a fruit tree, chances are that it's grafted as this is done to provide a more vigorous or dwarf tree, depending on what's required.
it may not feel like summer but it still feels like a time of great abundance!
they are doing really well with baby cucumbers already visible.
a moon in capricorn is perfect- an earth moon  for roots and a waning moon also good for roots!
rain and work have continued to keep me  away from the allotment but with the moon in leo, it's been about feeding my  fruit.
so it's well worth the effort!
in fact the idea is that if you're clearing land, you do so when the moon is in capricorn to start, then you do it again when the moon is in leo.
it was great to be on jeni barnett's show on radio london.
with a little protection from the  worst of the winter weather, i should have at least one crop in the early  spring.
it's only  because i have taken to covering it at night.
it's a full moon in taurus and the sun is shining.
it's quite a job as it covers about 2 square metres but very satisfying.
there is still a little daylight left, so if you haven't done it  yet, there's still time.
so the waxing properties of the moon encourage growth above ground and the descending energy encourages healthy roots.
so it's lacking in something, probably iron.
the beginning of the new has put me in a thoughtful mood.
being an earth sign, taurus meant that it was time to deal with root vegetables.
i love the way a little heat has brought everything  on.
they have now been marinated in olive oil, a splash of vinegar, garlic, oregano and salt.
but i'm also checking the garden.
in fact one of them got so many plants from me that she's going to share them with her daughter.
in the meantime my compost heap is more like a hill!
picking them in the sunshine was heavenly.
water too  much and plants become dependant on water on the surface.
finally the bramble bush, which i left on site because the thought of free blackberries was too appealing, was beginning to get out of control.
21/01/12 a holiday and then the need to  catch up with work have kept me off the allotment.
i have probably left them on the bush a bit longer than i should but i've been so busy with the strawberries that everything else had to wait.
it's all very exciting!
these are painted with an arabic powder and rose water paste to be crystallised and used for cake decorations.
it is waxing so it's not  an ideal time for dealing with your root vegetables.
today, with the moon in taurus, i decided to turn my attention to  compost.
they grow in clumps of corms, similar to those of  crocus.
there has been some gardening though.
today the moon has been in cancer.
this is only the first year, but what a great sign of things to come.
the oldest of the heaps is  about 7 months old and is taking up space which is very much needed for the  planting of purple sprouting broccoli and cauliflower that i'm planning when  the moon goes into libra.
the oldest of the heaps is about 7 months old and is taking up space which is very much needed for the planting of purple sprouting broccoli and cauliflower that i'm planning when the moon goes into libra.
i still feel my profound shock!
it stands to reason that these could be sown now if we consider that  annuals will be shedding their seed now to germinate in the spring.
anything that was prone to frost came in as there were a few very cold  nights.
my  thoughts have turned to earthy matters.
these are easily grown in  containers.
i am also providing a gardening calendar each week so that you can plan your gardening week.
so i soaked the roots in a bucket to rehydrate it and then a couple of hours later, it was planted in a container.
before the snow, i noticed that some of my pots outdoors were dry.
at least before freezing temperatures return.
i may be too late to prevent peach leaf curl later this season, but at least the blossom will be protected from future frosts.
when i get there on monday, i know i'll be enjoying how quiet and peaceful it all looks!
the wonderful thing about gardening is that i'm always looking forward to something in the future!
well i think it's time we did a sun dance!!!
on a much more  cheerful note, the moon today is in sagittarius which means that it's a day for  focusing on fruit.
so it was that i picked the last of my runner beans, french beans and borlotti beans.
it turned out to be the perfect easter  morning!
i don't remember an april like this for a very long  time.
this is only the  first year, but what a great sign of things to come.
i think this is a  waste and there is a better way of dealing with them.
after quizzical looks, i explained my dilemma.
i love the way a little heat has brought everything on.
i find this to be the perfect time for them as by the spring, i have run out of onions.
so next year there are a variety of plans which mean that whatever the weather, life won't be so easy for the ravenous molluscs!
more lettuce, coriander and cabbages.
the seeds look very much like tomatoes, as  they are from the same family.
other fruit family in need of pruning at this time of year, is the currant  family.
this meant clearing the patch where it belonged of weeds, and then  digging a small circle into which to push it and secure it.
flowers need a  waxing moon which is what we'll have tomorrow.
19/08/11 with the moon  still in aries this morning, i continued to focus on fruit.
that's exactly what i did yesterday.
with the moon  in libra, it's a good time to collect next year's flower seeds.
so  it's time to prune and feed.
although this appears like a good thing, actually they need thinning out.
happily it did rain this morning, but not enough.
i  also sowed another variety of peas.
it's nice to be picking  strawberries and raspberries in september, but the real stars of the month are  the apples.
two beautiful ponies are currently being used to graze some overgrown fields.
i'm often asked what goes into my compost bin.
i've planted them in a nursery bed on the allotment with  a view to have some to cut and bring indoors, but also to then find room for  them in the front garden.
she then looked at my gigantic compost heap and told me that much of it could be burnt.
delicious but confusing!!!
the rest is enjoyed through the summer with yoghurt for  breakfast.
at this time of year, seeds are still  germinating and although the weeds have slowed down, there is still enough to  keep me busy.
for this reason, i had to resow my leeks much  later than i should.
the mild weather has also brought on the start of blossom on my nectarine tree.
i'm actually planning to be up before 7 tomorrow, on my day off  so that i can have some time gardening before the rain!
it was like having a potting shed, but warmer.
so in they will go, with my fingers  firmly crossed.
it makes me look forward to next year already!
dinner includes courgettes, peas and mangetout- yum!!!!
then  again i might just sit and listen to the birds!
one of many very large onions!
i then checked the spinach  beet and swiss chard.
sadly the clock's ticking meant that i didn't get to sow  any of the seeds i wanted to sow today.
like the sorrel, some of the leaves looked a bit tatty.
in the process some of the clumps of corms broke away, thus creating new plants.
so i took advantage of the fact that the moon has been in scorpio today and watered the allotment.
it was still a fruit day as i made an apple tart for my students with apples harvested yesterday.
my seed catalogue arrived  today.
but there is a price to pay for this  glorious spring we've been enjoying.
so a happy medium is needed.
happily, there is less to do at this time  of year.
some time on  the allotment!
but it  is also a good time to prune, and feed.
this is important as it will help air circulate between the plants and minimise the development and subsequent spreading of fungus.
i think my strawberries will be the first to be fed.
the moon has been in libra today so the focus has been on flowers and  flowering vegetables.
i  harvested enough to make plenty of blackcurrant tonic.
driving into the south east from wales, i became very aware of how parched everything looks compared to the west.
so today has been a day for watering the allotment, all container plants, seedlings and house plants.
so yesterday i began the process of removing any uncomposted material to add to the other heaps for further composting.
i may be too late to prevent peach leaf curl  later this season, but at least the blossom will be protected from future  frosts.
yesterday, with the sunny  weather, the old fragrance was back and so was the smell!
potatoes, that is the tubers that we plant, need to be kept from light.
still, at least i'm not worrying about everything becoming overgrown, drying out or overcome with weeds.
everyone who ate them, loved them, but no one knew what a labour of love was sitting on their plate!
a very pleasant hour was spent and  they're now comfortably sheltered in my mini-greenhouse.
the moon is now waxing so the shift will be to fruit and  flowers for the next couple of weeks.
in the last few days with tensions running so high, i've taken refuge there.
other harvests were the green peppers and my first ever bunch of grapes!!!!
the moon is now in scorpio and the sun is shining.
if they reach the sky, i hope there isn't a giant up there!
virgo is the most  useful sign for gardeners.
today iraced  to do some planting while the moon was still in pisces.
this is such an improvement on last year when i had four  gooseberries and two of them were had by the pigeons!
still on the subject of fruit, i had my  first figs today!
thought it was hilarious to be called a 'fierce astrologer'  and later to be referred to as the 'lunar lady'!
this is quite a tough plant that can withstand some rough treatment.
i tried to water the allotment  today but found that rodents had chewed through my hose pipe!
25/01/12 a waxing moon in pisces  means that today is an easy day.
i finally planted my leeks.
so today i'm pricking  out last month's sowings.
last year i was too busy to do this and lost all my blackcurrants to the birds.
actually, i found that i prefer them a little riper.
this is also the time to cut back autumn  flowering raspberries.
this is a fungus which affects fruit of this family causing leaves to distort and fall in summer.
but i'm  also checking the garden.
the rule is that when the moon is waxing we deal with plants above ground, the exception being leaf vegetables.
there have been a few surprises but none greater than the fact that i'm still picking strawberries and raspberries.
this is a fungus  which affects fruit of this family causing leaves to distort and fall in  summer.
of course, i also picked strawberries.
it seems counter-intuitive to bury a growing plant, but it it necessary.
1/07/11 my gooseberries were wonderful and have been turned into a sauce which will be used to flavour cakes and desserts.
if like me, you are house bound, virgo is a good sign for planting.
jam, jellies,  tonics, and sauces have been made.
i don't think there will be any nectarines though as there is no blossom.
however wonderful the gooseberry harvest was though, it pales into insignificance compared to the redcurrant harvest of today!
1/11/11 the moon has been in capricorn today.
the  sun is shining again today.
11/05/11 next week, i'll be unable to attend to any gardening due to a very busy schedule.
the peppers can ripen on the window sill.
this is a fire sign and so there is a link with fruit.
then again i might just sit and listen to the birds!
thankfully this is a smell
so time was spent tidying up and enjoying what's there.
but i missed my chance.
still, at least i'm not  worrying about everything becoming overgrown, drying out or overcome with  weeds.
not without visiting  the shop first, of course!
my houseplants got a drink today and i was filled with pride when a client complemented me on their healthy appearance.
to do this, i'm going to simply cut the plant  in half and pot up both pieces.
the trouble is that salsify is not a common  vegetable and no one has been able to tell me whether it's possible to store  them in the same way that i store potatoes.
i've never grown this before but it is supposed to have lots of useful qualities which i look forward to experimenting with.
this time it was especially so as i returned to ripe strawberries.
and good stuff it is- soft crumbly and a rich dark colour for salsify, carrots, parsnips and other rooty delights.
thankfully, i think i'll be in time for the next cold spell.
this way they are big  enough to resist the attention of the pigeon population.
to say that it stinks is a gross understatement!
cornflowers in the pumpkin patch-
every gardener i know has complained about their over-abundance this year.
this year's wonderful  crop were self seeded.
i will now wait for the waning moon in pisces to plant my new treasures.
i think there will be caramelised onion tarts and french  onion soups in the coming months!
i planted cabbages, swiss chard, spinach beat and  celery.
i noticed  my cucumbers are doing well and look forward to my first salad with them.
actually, i found that i prefer them a little  riper.
if you  still have any potatoes in the ground, bring them in.
if you have access to blackberries, enjoy them now.
the tree is a bare root tree and it remained in its package until christmas eve.
i harvested from the middle of may to the middle of july and then to my great surprise i started to pick them again in september and carried on into early november.
this means that it's in a water sign on a waxing moon.
so i'm looking through the  catalogues getting ready to order garlic and onions.
so perfect for dealing with all  fruit matters.
they  then become poisonous.
it's  leaves are finally beginning to unfurl.
ana isabel - life astrologer - home page - ana isabel - astrology - hypnotherapy - media - myspiritradio/lightways - blog - moon/ biodynamicsblog - college of psychic studi - astrology lodge london - readings - workshops - distance learning - talks - spirit and destiny magaz - kindred spirit magazine - find your moon sign - cusp dates - mercury retrograde - testimonials - contact
and i was getting concerned about  losing one of my beeds for growing food to another gigantic heap.
15/07/11 the moon in capricorn is now waning so it's a  good time to sow more carrots, beetroot and radishes.
these are all indoors of course as it's still too cold at night for them to be out.
6/05/11 it has been one of those days with too much to do in too  little time.
however, the moon is linked with the earth all the time, so its energy does affect us all the time.
this moon is the only chance i have to deal  with flowers while the moon is waxing this month, so although aquarius isn't  the best gardening moon, i attended to my cauliflowers.
i now smell of tomatoes.
waning moons are good for pruning, so if there is any fruit pruning to be done, today and tomorrow are good days for it.
in fact one of them got so many plants from me that she's going to  share them with her daughter.
so i've  watered again today.
abundance is everywhere!
so much to do that i'd better get started.
they are now a small size but doing well.
at this time of  year, although it's still warm in the house, the days are shorter.
so today they were pricked out- planted into small pots and given some protection- as much from slugs as from the weather.
last year they survived our coldest  winter and the snow, so it's worth looking after them as they provide a ready  supply of greens through the winter.
although thre isn't much of it at this time of year, i'm looking ahead.
tulips are expensive but unreliable.
if you have garlic that needs planting, today and tomorrow will be the right days for it.
sweet corn, courgettes and peppers were planted on the allotment.
it was still a fruit day as i made an apple tart for my students  with apples harvested yesterday.
this is a tricky operation as they are in pots.
so i'm planning to harvest all the peppers and the runner beans this  coming week.
there are some last  vestiges of summer as i'm still picking strawberries and raspberries.
the fight with the slugs is continuing and to avoid further  losses of celeriac and parsnips i've been sowing in seed trays and waiting for  the plants to be big enough to plant in the allotment.
so it was that last week, when the moon was in another earth sign, virgo, i found myself at a farm shop asking them whether their cattle had horns.
other sowings included hardy annual- statice and alyssum as well as hardy  perennial- dianthus.
friday's heat was so welcome that my pumpkins actually started to change colour and ripen for the first time.
if you've finished all your jobs for the moon in virgo, yesterday, today is a day to enjoy the garden.
this time i've put them somewhere safe-
this is the ideal day to do it as the waning  moon will promote good root growth.
a few jobs needed doing that were overdue with last month  having been taken up with hypnotherapy, nursing a cold and christmas.
i filled a bucket with comfrey leaves and then filled it with water.
this is a way of gardening that takes into account the place of the moon when doing different tasks in the garden.
i gently carried him to the other compost heap and hope that he's busy devouring slugs!!!!
time was not on my side as digging down a meter in some places is  slow, gruelling work.
they were like honey and for a few moments, i was on holiday  in spain!
11/04/11 today is a good day to enjoy the garden.
the moon is waning once again.
you might enjoy a little  video clip that was taken on tuesday when the moon was still in capricorn.
in the meantime, i've started the new year eating figs from my small tree which is taking refuge from the winter indoors.
olives are too  bitter to be eaten fresh.
but i missed  a raspberry bush when i was pruning and it has some dead wood on it, so i'll  attend to that today.
i'm loving the autumn
it's a very cold day and a job like this doesn't involve a lot of movement.
i'm looking forward to some colder weather just so that i can feel that i'm on top of things.
the battle with slugs continues.
on a much more cheerful note, the moon today is in sagittarius which means that it's a day for focusing on fruit.
i harvested  more potatoes, some of which are massive.
this week i'm making mincemeat for the  mince pies and christmas pudding which will be made later in the autumn.
finally the bramble  bush, which i left on site because the thought of free blackberries was too  appealing, was beginning to get out of control.
if you are growing potatoes in containers, this is easy to  do.
the beans  are going strong too and there is that feeling of abundance we get just as we  approach the end of summer.
the link  between water moons and leaves is due to the fact that the actual body of a  plant is largely made up of water.
i'm so glad that i openedthe bucket in the open air instead of in the shed!!!!
so as the moon is in taurus, (an earth sign),  today is the day.
16/04/11 i had planned to plant my honeysuckle today but ran out of time.
we became great friends and i felt connected with nature once again.
low light levels are to blame.
if that's a sign of things to come,  i will be having a very good strawberry season indeed.
happily all  of this exchanging of fruit happened on a fire moon.
alternatively, you might find that when you pull on an old stem, there is a little shoot of a new plant attached to it.
as much as i'm looking forward to the start of the growing season, there is such comfort in the slow pace of this season.
this is also the time to cut back autumn flowering raspberries.
and i was getting concerned about losing one of my beeds for growing food to another gigantic heap.
the beans i plan to blanche and then freeze.
if you have access to blackberries, enjoy  them now.
i  gently carried him to the other compost heap and hope that he's busy devouring  slugs!!!!
the winds actually blew it over, but i've staked it now and it is still very  statuesque.
rain and work have continued to keep me away from the allotment but with the moon in leo, it's been about feeding my fruit.
i fed the tomatoes, figs, olives, cucumbers and aubergines.
i'm looking forward to having them in the early spring.
flowers need a waxing moon which is what we'll have tomorrow.
the aubergines in the  greenhouse are thriving with fruit developing well.
3/09/11 it was wonderful to have a couple of days of sunshine, but it's a pity it didn't last longer!
other seeds ripe for collection are those of my foxgloves and my  hollyhocks.
my  mini greenhouse also need to to be prepared for the start of the growing season  as it's about to get very busy indeed.
also i noticed that they are producing seed.
18/08/11 i love this time of year.
so yesterday i began the process of removing any uncomposted  material to add to the other heaps for further composting.
cherries often do the same thing.
so a very busy day ahead!
on monday, my day off,  not much time was given to rest.
15/06/11 it's been a very busy few days.
on another note, i'm also going to  plant a honeysuckle against my shed.
although, virgo being a  working sign, i'm sure you'll find something that needs doing.
the next project is going to focus on soil and slug control!!!!
but virgo is a forgiving moon for gardeners.
if you have a fruit tree, chances are that it's grafted as  this is done to provide a more vigorous or dwarf tree, depending on what's  required.
leek and chicken pie-
the peach is still  indoors and that needed a feed too.
it will take a few years to produce a bulb large enough to flower
we became great friends and i felt connected with nature once  again.
the potatoes are more  than ready to go in, having been chitted and i really don't think they could  wait for the waning moon in capricorn.
it's been a while since my last blog, but i have continued to work on my allotment.
the mild weather so far has meant  that they weren't killed by frost before i got to them.
it's fine, they'll just be a little late.
the moon is still in libra and flowers continued to be the  focus today.
25/05/11 today the moon is in pisces.
the moon is  now in scorpio and the sun is shining.
they throw out what looks like a chord with baby strawberry plants on it.
i've never grown this before but it is supposed to have lots of useful  qualities which i look forward to experimenting with.
my breakfasts are changing, and reflecting the end of the season too.
in fact i spent 7 hours in total clearing the rest of my allotment.
this  of course has been due to the wet and cool summer.
waning moons are good for feeding as they ground is more absorbant.
this is no longer the case and this means  that they're no longer as sweet as they were.
if they've finished when the moon goes into leo, i'll prune them then.
they will be weaker having produced so much fruit.
it's now very full  again!
happily, today moon and time coincided so i spent a good part of the afternoon looking after them.
removing the leaves at this point doesn't  worry me as i want the focus to shift from growth to ripening.
fire moons are good for dealing with fruit and this is a waxing moon so good  for planting.
i then planned to plant them last month but last month, i  had no time for gardening.
the moon is now waxing so the shift will be to fruit and flowers for the next couple of weeks.
the abundance of strawberries means that there is enough to make strawberry jam.
i can't wait to pick the flowers and have that sweet scent  in the house.
my attention was turned to fruit.
so as the moon is in taurus, (an earth sign), today is the day.
you may wonder why, but that is  because in high winds, it has been taking flight and landing in neighbouring  allotments.
i had hoped to have had everything in  order before christmas.
i have yet to net them, so they have had little  protection from pigeons and cabbage white butterflies.
i'm looking forward to a little time on  the allotment- well about half an hour.
21/01/12 a holiday and then the need to catch up with work have kept me off the allotment.
in order to put this on the plot, i went to the centre of the allotment where wheelbarrows are kept and shared.
however as the moon is waning, the best job will be pruning.
the moon is in libra today and the sun is shining.
at this time of year, although it's still warm in the house, the days are shorter.
if you pull and there is resistance, they are not yet fully ripe.
i have,  however, been thinking and planning.
after teaching, i went over to the allotment and was given more squashes and courgettes by a friend.
9 very heavy bags of "the good  stuff" as one of my fellow allotment holders called it.
you could also  divide the plant by simply putting a fork through the middle of it and then  pulling the two plants apart.
it is still waning so it was a good day to  cut back my comfrey and to make comfrey soup.
she then looked at my gigantic compost  heap and told me that much of it could be burnt.
2/12/11 with the days getting shorter, it's harder to  get the time to be on the allotment.
it just goes to show what poor light levels we've had.
leo moons are a good time to do some weeding.
the peach already has tiny peaches forming and this one has only just begun to wake from its winter slumber.
during a trial in my garden ( a trial that i did not give consent to) the favourite appears to be parsnips.
and i was rewarded when i got home, with some blossom on my nectarine tree!
however, care is needed with young  seedlings like peas and beans which do not yet have developed root systems.
slugs seem  to love coriander.
tricky and  fiddly but worth it if i'm to avoid peach leaf curl next year.
does anyone know a rain dance?
i think i'll be better at remembering to bring them in, in future.
i ended up filling a shopping bag as well!
i would normally wait for the next time the moon is waning on an earth moon
but planting my beans will have to wait as it's a waning moon.
today i harvested one that was more like a marrow.
i was away for four days and returned to growth that might have been expected after two weeks!
6/10/11 the moon is in aquarius today.
this is a job i normally do towards the end of september when i want them to ripen before the frosts.
having fallen out of love with cleaning parsnips, i determined that this  year, things will be different.
however wonderful the gooseberry harvest was though, it pales into  insignificance compared to the redcurrant harvest of today!
the ground is  more absorbant during a waning moon, so this is a good time to water and feed.
my strawberries are threatening to  take over my plot so i've been lifting runners and giving them to fellow  allotment holders.
the aubergines in the greenhouse are thriving with fruit developing well.
the annoying thing is that my neighbour's currant bushes were left intact.
i harvested from the middle of may to  the middle of july and then to my great surprise i started to pick them again  in september and carried on into early november.
pricking out seedlings is an act of real patience as rushing means delicate seedlings are lost.
as blackcurrants are rich in vitamin c, i freeze some of this tonic to have in winter and the smallest sign of colds.
the bonus came when we were chatting about the season, and i told her about the loss of my pumpkins and squashes to the onslaught of slugs and snails.
well a few of them met their  maker this afternoon.
however, there is a silver lining.
i didn't get the chance to cut its stems to crystallising but will  try to do that when the moon is waning in aquarius as that will be a better  time to do it anyway.
but virgo is a forgiving  moon for gardeners.
during this  period the focus shifts from fruit and flowers to roots and leaf plants.
20/08/11 the moon has been in taurus today.
some of the squash and pumpkin harvest
if it doesn't shed enough, then next month, while the moon is still waning in aries, i'll do some thinning myself.
a waxing moon in libra is perfect for sowing flower seeds, pricking out flower seedlings and planting flowers.
one of my students brought me a bag of apples from her tree and some apple chutney!
they were given to me back in the summer and i haven't had the time to do much with them.
february- 17:31 tuesday 21st
a second, albeit lesser crop is coming.
7/04/11 another glorious day!!!
i know what i like too and took advantage of the moon  in gemini to plant some lavender and a couple of japonese anemones.
i have  larkspur, sunflowers, nicotiana ( a little late for these) and some nigella.
the moon is  now in scorpio.
although pruning is normally done on a waning moon, this could easily become an uncontrollable thug so i pruned it today in the hope of reducing its vigour.
i have a half hour window to bring in the last of my potatoes.
they don't stand a chance!!!
these are simply wonderful and there are few  pleasures that compare to walking barefoot on a cool lawn, on a hot summer's  day!
what i didn't enjoy was the slugs, which  believe that the plot is theirs in this weather.
so i had to forget the clock ticking as i pricked  out aquilegias, cauliflower, purple sprouting broccoli, statice, pinks,  chamomile, alyssum, and borage.
today  i also attended to something that got put off while i was sick.
like a parent unwilling to give up on her unpromising child, i defended my misshapen parsnips on the grounds that looks don’t matter and that nobody would know what they looked like, once they’d been cut.
so you can imagine how much time they took to prepare!
20/11/11 with the moon in the earth sign virgo, my thoughts are with compost.
this year's crop is mine.
this is important as it will help air  circulate between the plants and minimise the development and subsequent  spreading of fungus.
interestingly,  last year this didn't happen.
my compost heap has been so big that i'd had  to start another one.
happily, it has shrunk and most of the matter has  decomposed.
so today i'm pricking out last month's sowings.
there are some last vestiges of summer as i'm still picking strawberries and raspberries.
removing the leaves at this point doesn't worry me as i want the focus to shift from growth to ripening.
i harvested enough to make plenty of blackcurrant tonic.
these are  very large and growing in containers.
so wonderful to have a sunny afternoon as it's been rather gloomy lately.
i think i'll be harvesting fennel.
that means that this is a fruit day.
it was lovely to be in the  sunshine doing this.
i didn't deadhead my lilies earlier in the season and so  they are producing seed.
at least i know i won't be having to go out to harvest them in the wind and rain like last year.
today iraced to do some planting while the moon was still in pisces.
the bonus came when we were chatting  about the season, and i told her about the loss of my pumpkins and squashes to  the onslaught of slugs and snails.
so for example, garlic and onions should be planted on different beds each year.
i finally got  the chance to plant my garlic.
a waxing moon in libra is just right for planting flowers and at this time of year that means daffodils and hyacinths.
air sign days are flower days, so my thoughts turned to the tulip bulbs which i found on the top shelf of my shed.
30/06/11 today's harvest was gooseberries.
this isn't a moon associated  with gardening so i usually use this time for enjoying the garden,  contemplating changes that need to be made or tidying up.
as it's a  waning moon, you might want to divide your herbacious perennials so as to  increase your stock next year.
last year my  greatest success were the strawberries.
26/06/11 jupiter  is a planet of abundance and today the moon has been very close to it.
i say half, it  sounds like large numbers but actually there were only four plants!
12/02/12 snow, and another week of  my intensitve hypnotherapy course have kept me off the allotment.
i'm just glad it's alive.
of course to do this, i need to ensure that the leaves are dry when i bring  them in.
the fact that the moon is in  an air sign and waxing also made me think of my cauliflower seedlings.
although we think of these as vegetables what we eat are the plants flowers.
waxing moons encourage fast growth and vigour which is why we deal with leaf vegetables and herbs on a waning moon.
i'm still harvesting some strawberries  but with less regularity.
i was completely shattered but the efforts were very  worthwhile as i can now just enjoy gardening without having to clear and dig!
the last of the apples were picked and tomatoes  were also brought in.
redcurrants  will be turned into a jelly
so i deadheaded my bulbs- tulips, daffodils, hyacinths and irises.
actually the important thing is also to remember not to put in cooked food, meat or dairy products as these would attract mice and rats.
i have larkspur, sunflowers, nicotiana ( a little late for these) and some nigella.
nevertheless, i did manage to get out into the garden to plant some basil and a lemon verbena.
in the meantime, there are seeds to order-
with any luck this and a bit of sunshine should do the trick.
the moon is in pisces and waning.
i'll just check to see all is as it should be.
my garden  is small, but it is walled.
what a lovely surprise!
for one thing, the garlic needs planting and today would have been the perfect day.
but the moon in aquarius which is not a great moon for any gardening, has allowed me the time to plan the next few days to deal with surplus fruit.
i seem to cross my fingers frequently when gardening!
12/05/11 last year i was too busy taming the jungle that was my overgrown allotment, to have time to attend to things like netting fruit.
it's a very cold day and  a job like this doesn't involve a lot of movement.
you can then cut the chord and you have a new  plant.
i am still off today, thankfully as i have pumpkins and more peas to put in.
it is still waning so it was a good day to cut back my comfrey and to make comfrey soup.
it was lovely to do so in warm sunshine for a change!
this is the other reason why i love being  on my allotment.
i  don't think there will be any nectarines though as there is no blossom.
so next year there are a variety of plans which mean that  whatever the weather, life won't be so easy for the ravenous molluscs!
it's been a hot day and it was wonderful to be outdoors.
i've decided to keep growing my cucumbers in it, as they seem to do so well  there.
strawberries for breakfast every morning and today there were raspberries too!!
happily the beds alloted for my onions, were already  prepared a couple of months ago so there was no battle to be done with couch  grass.
olives are too bitter to be eaten fresh.
a couple  of days ago it was much smaller!
thought it was hilarious to be called a 'fierce astrologer' and later to be referred to as the 'lunar lady'!
this week i'm making mincemeat for the mince pies and christmas pudding which will be made later in the autumn.
consequently gardeners often recommend  that they be treated as annual plants and bought every year.
lemongrass, and sweet marjoram for example can be sown now.
http://www.youtube.com/user/lifeastrologer?feature=mhee 4/10/11 with the moon in capricorn, the emphasis has been on roots.
just one more row to  bring in.
toes to reach the top which is above my head!
all manner of jobs work out well during this moon, so i'm chancing putting in my potatoes, onions and shallots.
pricking out seedlings is an act of real patience as rushing means  delicate seedlings are lost.
21/04/11 like most  people, i've been cooped up indoors all day but am now looking forward to some  time on the allotment.
redcurrant jelly next!
then plant it and you'll find a new plant growing soon.
my mini greenhouse also need to to be prepared for the start of the growing season as it's about to get very busy indeed.
i'm sowing more peas, beans, squashes and trying out watermelons too.
yesterday, my day  off, was exceptionally busy!
february waning moon in aquarius enjoy the garden!
that was a real test to my  commitment to eat my own produce!!!
last week i was doing the second part of an intensive  hypnotherapy course.
in the process some of the clumps of corms broke  away, thus creating new plants.
this being a waning  water moon, it was time to think of leaves.
one of them is so  high that it's at eye level and looks very much like a wall!
the moon is indeed in sagittarius, things are looking up!
two lost parsnips, minimal losses.
the waning moon was just what i needed.
consequently, they need special care.
yesterday it was rhubarb, oregano as mine died in the hard winter, and some coriander as slugs keep eating my seedlings.
if you've missed this chance, don't worry, there is still plenty of time as you can sow the seeds in may.
this moon is the only chance i have to deal with flowers while the moon is waxing this month, so although aquarius isn't the best gardening moon, i attended to my cauliflowers.
it's the  first time i've done this so i'm looking forward to the results.
so today, i watered my house plants and took a walk in the countryside.
i turned the material in my compost bin and was delighted to  find that towards the bottom things are decomposing into something that will  hopefully be fryable by next spring!
happily though, this morning was delightfully sunny so i started to work on my tomatoes to ensure that they got as much exposure to the sun as possible.
it was a very satisfying thing  to do a way of saying a big thank-you.
in  winter, root vegetables are muddy, especially if grown in clay!
first  job on the list is to water the garden, the houseplants and the allotment.
the wonderful thing about gardening is that i'm always looking forward  to something in the future!
consequently i was left with two gooseberries and a handful of redcurrants.
they've already decimated my first sowing.
it stands to reason that these could be sown now if we consider that annuals will be shedding their seed now to germinate in the spring.
i'll continue to do so for a bit longer.
we've had some rain in the south east at the weekend but not enough.
but i missed a raspberry bush when i was pruning and it has some dead wood on it, so i'll attend to that today.
scorpio being a water sign, it's a day for dealing with leaf vegetables.
i've decided to keep growing my cucumbers in it, as they seem to do so well there.
i think it was some time in mid-august when i last watered  the allotment.
happily all of this exchanging of fruit happened on a fire moon.
a very new feeling and a very enjoyable one!
like the sorrel, some of the leaves looked  a bit tatty.
the snow has now melted, but i'm going to check whether anything is still dry.
definately something to avoid.
the sauce can again be used with yoghurt and desserts as well as being  frozen.
they are an indulgence wich will  provide cut flowers for the house in the spring.
the moon was still waning in an air moon.
sadly the burst of heat was short lived and the rain is back!!!
it's been a very hot day, so i found myself watering everything very thoroughly again today.
a moon in capricorn is perfect- an earth moon for roots and a waning moon also good for roots!
so i tidied up my sorrel.
today i've been  planning where everything will be grown next year.
the currant bushes fruited well this year and needed a little attention.
happily, there is less to do at this time of year.
with the moon in libra, it's a good time to collect next year's flower seeds.
this is a new feeling for me but brought on by  ritual of the harves and the laying in of stores.
mine  were obviously tastier!!!
however,  there is a silver lining.
i think i'm just ready!
this means that i can have a continuous supply of peppermint tea next year.
it would be good to get some significant rain before the new moon.
the lawned path along the avenue with herbacious borders on either side,  gives you the opportunity to do just that.
the good thing is that tomorrow the moon will still be waxing in libra,  so if like me you didn't get the chance to work in the garden, there's always  tomorrow.
normal tea has too much tannin which would acidify the compost.
so today, it was gooseberry sauce and tomorrow it will be
this is a flower day, so my attention turned to my magnolia and camellia.
my apple trees are laden with little apples.
i then began to dig the new compost into the area.
my grapes may well be edible soon!
actually self sown nigella (love in a mist) are already in full bloom and looking lovely.
that will be quite enough  for today.
the ground is very hard and so today for the first time, i've watered the garden and allotment.
aquarius is not a great  day for gardening so it's a time to enjoy the garden.
8/06/11 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=thc09ibcqf0 virgo is a very forgiving sign in the garden.
it was the first chance i got to deal with it.
little seedlings cropping up all around their bed.
my plot was a jungle of  brambles, bindweed and couch grass only a year ago.
the calendar will give a clue as to the reason for  this burst of activity.
you could also divide the plant by simply putting a fork through the middle of it and then pulling the two plants apart.
it's  all very exciting!
however, the beds in which i planted  my peas were over-run with one of the many banes of an allotment holder' s  life- couch grass.
thankfully, with the moon in virgo there are many jobs which can be done.
last year didn't work out for watermelons so my fingers are crossed this  year!
it's leaves are finally beginning to unfurl.
2/10/11 the moon is still in sagittarius and today i continued my focus on fruit.
now what's left is healthy and in great shape to see me through the winter.
she was so excited for me as she remembered a wilderness!
the  moon has still been in aries through the day and i would normally have been  feeding my fruit.
seeds are not good news as the plant will then put all its energy into producing seed instead of continuing to grow and producing tubers (potatoes).
i'm sowing more peas, beans, squashes and trying out watermelons  too.
if like me, you  are house bound, virgo is a good sign for planting.
well a few of them met their maker this afternoon.
this is truly what spring is all about!!
replacements were promptly and generously offered as she said she had too many.
the cherry and pear have finished so now they need feeding as they are in containers.
these too were  removed.
as much as i'm looking forward to the start  of the growing season, there is such comfort in the slow pace of this season.
then there is the rose garden which at this time of year is filled with scent.
i left a bramble to grow on the edge of my plot so as to keep the delicious fruit, although of course i know for its sweetness, it's actually a thug with world domination as its aim.
i also collected some marigolds to add to the gel from my aloe vera plant.
having always loved parsnips, i planted many-
february- 05:03 friday 17th february waning moon in sagittarius prune blackcurrant bushes and autumn raspberries.
i also sowed another variety of peas.
being an earth moon, i spent time earthing up my potatoes.
this  way i can get a sense of how many plants are in the bed and i can thin out  those that are too tightly packed.
redcurrant  jelly next!
so i've now got them in big pots and as i clear it from other plants,  they will have a dedicated space.
yesterday, with the sunny weather, the old fragrance was back and so was the smell!
it is waxing so it's not an ideal time for dealing with your root vegetables.
if it rains, i won't need to.
so as the leaves start to develop, we need to at least  part cover them with earth.
i'm going to harvest the seed to sow.
14/01/11 the moon has gone into virgo today.
so i deadheaded my bulbs- tulips, daffodils,  hyacinths and irises.
the abundance of strawberries means that  there is enough to make strawberry jam.
it seems counter-intuitive to bury a growing plant,  but it it necessary.
so today is a  day for reading seed catalogues.
26/08/11 rain and work have kept me from the allotment for the last few days.
as it's a waxing moon in an air sign it's a good day to attend  to flowers.
today though, i took advantage of the fact that the moon is waning in an air sign.
they're looking big and healthy so  should be able to cope with attention from the slug population.
tomorrow is my day off.
6/05/11 it has been one of those days with too much to do in too little time.
autumn fruiting raspberries fruit on the current year's growth.
dinner includes courgettes, peas and  mangetout- yum!!!!
the moon  will be in cancer
it feels nice to be storing for the harder times to  come.
other harvests were the green peppers and my first ever bunch of   grapes!!!!
i  decided to collect seed from my cornflowers and found that they had already  self seeded.
it feels as though summer has begun very early too.
i'm going to sow some on the allotment to ensure that there's a  good supply of pollen for bees.
being rather a novice compost maker, yesterday with the moon in the earth sign of taurus, i invited my neighbour to come and look at my compost bin.
on the other hand, it  might be time to tidy things up a little.
the peach is still indoors and that needed a feed too.
seeds are not good news as the plant will then  put all its energy into producing seed instead of continuing to grow and  producing tubers (potatoes).
and i am very spoiled.
now my original heap is smaller, and i know that i can burn more material from it.
my strawberry patch was a joy last year but plants were growing too close together by the end of the season.
this means that i was  planting in the rain.
it's  only its first year so i'm ok with that.
30/09/11 moon in scorpio is meant to be a good moon for dealing with pests.
17/05/11 the moon is waning once again.
suckers appear on the original root stock or trees that are grafted.
coming home was less fun though as i had to dig over a large area of the allotment again in very hot sun.
this is a most unexpected and welcome  surprise!
gone are the bowls of yoghurt with blackcurrant, strawberry or gooseberry sauce.
today though, i took advantage of the fact that  the moon is waning in an air sign.
my houseplants got a drink today and i was filled with pride when a  client complemented me on their healthy appearance.
next, i saw to the tomatoes.
i then began to dig  the new compost into the area.
this means that i can have a continuous supply  of peppermint tea next year.
blackcurrants will be turned into a tonic and jam.
there's usually a second chance for  most things.
the moon is still in pisces and it was so wet earlier  that a fish might have had a good time!
in the meantime, i prepared a bed to plant the cauliflowers and purple sprouting broccoli tomorrow.
still it's all ready for the last of the potatoes which didn't get to go in last time.
a seed tray containing half parsnips and  half carrots, has all the carrots left and all the parsnips gone!!!
i think i'll put my feet up now!
they then become poisonous.
suckers need to be removed as they drain the tree from its energy.
so i sowed more lettuce, swiss chard, spinach beet, radiccio and - coriander!
a waxing moon in libra is perfect for sowing flower seeds,  pricking out flower seedlings and planting flowers.
so today i planted cabbages, lettuce,  spinach beet, swiss chard, coriander, thyme and chamomile.
i also fed other fruit like figs and the olives.
however, the two that are on the allotment were beginning to show signs of stress.
i'm also sowing some  turnips.
i meant to do that when the moon was last in leo but ran out  of time.
i'll let you know the results in due course.
there are some suckers on my peach tree which need to be removed.
the mild weather so far has meant that they weren't killed by frost before i got to them.
it's been two weeks since i was on the allotment.
the bonus yesterday  was finding a tiny brown lizard.
it makes me look forward to next year  already!
actually, i decided to have a look at the comfrey concoction that i made a few  weeks ago.
it has been full of seedlings.
yesterday, i picked my first ripe strawberry.
when i get there on monday, i know i'll be enjoying how quiet and peaceful it  all looks!
this included purple sprouting broccoli and cauliflower.
ideally you would have done that earlier in the season though.
30/04/11 the moon is now in aries.
that's why it's a good time to start now for delicious sensations next year!
i also sowed some more  spring onion seeds.
they are late but as they are winter hardy, i'm looking forward to harvesting them in the spring.
today i plan to finish the job.
so it's time to prune and feed.
in addition to my usual blog about astrological events, on this page i am writing about my experiences as a biodynamic gardener in a special blog.
i've also been checking the turnips and oriental radishes that i planted last month.
the moon was  still in libra this afternoon.
i can't believe my luck!
19/04/11 the moon is now waning.
thankfully, it has  already begun to shrink.
the idea is that between the moon in capricorn and the moon in leo, seeds will have germinated.
actually, that will only happen if the rain stops.
my strawberries are threatening to take over my plot so i've been lifting runners and giving them to fellow allotment holders.
i'm looking  forward to being back there again tomorrow.
using clear plastic bottles with their bottoms cut off as miniature greenhouses has also been effective.
if it doesn't  shed enough, then next month, while the moon is still waning in aries, i'll do  some thinning myself.
the cherry and pear have  finished so now they need feeding as they are in containers.
so with the moon in aquarius, and  it being a day to think about flowers, i turned my thoughts to spring.
liquid seaweed or if you're  close enough to collect seaweed, you can put it on your beds.
and good stuff it  is- soft crumbly and a rich dark colour for salsify, carrots, parsnips and  other rooty delights.
true to capricorn rather than having a lazy easter morning in bed, i was planting my potatoes.
i think i'll be spending a happy hour deciding what to order for next  year.
otherwise they develop into odd, contorted  shapes.
today i've been planning where everything will be grown next year.
i also harvested more potatoes.
even my pets seem to have been more needy at this time of the month; and of course we know that some police forces have admitted to having more officers on duty at the time of the full moon because statistically they can see that there are more incidents aroud this time.
a very pleasant hour was spent and they're now comfortably sheltered in my mini-greenhouse.
that's coming tomorrow afternoon.
actually self sown nigella (love in a mist) are already in full bloom and  looking lovely.
i  think i might just be in time.
yesterday, my day off, was exceptionally busy!
it's one of the few places where we still find community spirit.
it's time consuming but at least it helps.
this is  what happened to my pot marigold, borage and chamomile.
i love the old name (love in a mist), it's so romantic!
30/11/11 today the moon is in aquarius.
the mild weather has  also brought on the start of blossom on my nectarine tree.
i've been picking the unaffected  fruit and some are ripening on the window sill.
and so it was that each parsnip, due to its many contortions took twenty minutes to wash in the garden, be scrubbed in the kitchen and then finally cut, with all the little crevices cleaned.
that means that this is a  fruit day.
last year they didn't do very well on the allotment but that may be because they were growing next to some large cape gooseberries which meant that there was hardly any light available for them.
i turned the material in my compost bin and was delighted to find that towards the bottom things are decomposing into something that will hopefully be fryable by next spring!
i think it's reducing in the more established parts of the plot so there is hope!
in the meantime my compost heap is more  like a hill!
wednesday 29th february
as for my beans, well they're looking like  i had jack's magic bean.
the slugs  and snails are thriving in this wet weather and of course they regard my  plantings as their personal supermarket!
together with a few drops of lavender oil, i now have a gel in the freezer to help with burns.
one of my allotment neighbours gave me a clump of crocosmia crocosmiflora, otherwise known and monbretia.
happily the harvest has been very generous and although the weather has made a difference, the flavour is still good
it's only its first year so i'm ok with that.
this is not a difficult job, albeit fiddly because of having to provide steaks for each plant.
but  there is a simple rule.
frosts in october and snow by the end of november.
i also bought one of my  favourite herbs of all time- lemon verbena.
it was lovely to be in the sunshine doing this.
so this afternoon was spent dodging showers and pricking out lettuce, chervil, coriander, spinach beet and swiss chard, radicchio.
so if i were to have a new year's resolution for the garden, it's to be  far more clever and ruthless when it comes to the slimy brigade!!!
in order to put this on the plot, i went to the  centre of the allotment where wheelbarrows are kept and shared.
i thought about pricking out some carrot and fennel seedlings but decided to wait for the moon in capricorn as they still look quite young.
frosts in october and snow by the end of  november.
the recent heat has stimulated my courgettes into very fast growth.
13/05/11 virgo is a sign associated with harvest.
i sowed these seeds last year and they're now ready to plant in a border.
it is possible to get nemetodes that predate on slugs.
the moon has been in  aries today, so my attention was on fruit.
central  heating can also be a problem for some plants, so check whether you need to  spray them so as to increase humidity.
i think it's reducing in the more established  parts of the plot so there is hope!
i'm so delighted that my coriander has actually survived the slugs.
7/05/11 watering the garden needs to be carefully judged.
any fruit trees or shrubs which are either in blossom or which have flowered and are now forming fruit, now need a feed.
instead it's porridge with apples  and cinnamon.
this enables the tree to concentrate its resources on the remaining fruit, producing bigger apples.
slugs seem to love coriander.
i don't remember an april like this for a very long time.
at least i know i won't be having to go out to  harvest them in the wind and rain like last year.
water moons are  foliage days which means leaf vegetables like lettuce and herbs but it's a  waxing moon, so there is not a lot to do.
they were given to me back in the summer and i haven't had  the time to do much with them.
i had planned to plant cauliflower and purple sprouting broccoli today but the recycling centre was out of compost and the clay soil on a newly dug bed is just too harsh for young seedlings.
3/02/12 a waxing moon in gemini means that it's a flower day, so this  afternoon was all about cauliflowers.
having fallen out of love with cleaning parsnips, i determined that this year, things will be different.
what a lovely  surprise!
although i'd have preferred  to have done  this job on a waxing moon, the fact that i was working with the roots of the  plant, means that the plants can still benefit from the waning moon.
this is not a difficult job, albeit fiddly because of  having to provide steaks for each plant.
but there is a simple rule.
if you're  wondering how you can grow salad leaves in winter, then all you need is a  window sill.
fingers crossed, i'll have my first harvest this year!
have a go and  you'll be healthier throug the winter.
that's the great thing about biodynamics, there's usually another  day!
1/06/11 today was a quiet day in gardening terms.
those going in now will mean an earlier display.
i also have a fig and a cranberry that need to be potted on.
it's very frustrating!!!
25/04/11 aquarius, is not a sign for gardening, so usually this is a moon for enjoying the garden.
i then checked the spinach beet and swiss chard.
i've lost two, and i removed their twiggy remains; but i was very  happy to notice new growth coming from the base of the third.
that's it for the mini greenhouse!
so i knew i was just in time to make the most of a very young moon in an earth sign.
this time i planted turnips, an oriental radish variety as well as more beetroot and carrots.
so i've watered again today.
although i did leave an undersized  one which not only has survived the cold nights but is growing well!
plan now for next year's beauty!
so it was that i found myself picking olives.
being a water  moon, and therefore a leaf day, i also planted some rhubarb, oregano and  coriander today.
the lawned path along the avenue with herbacious borders on either side, gives you the opportunity to do just that.
i've noticed that all my current bushes are now flowering and have decided that this will be a good day to net them to prevent bird damage.
before watering them on a water moon, i check whether they actually need it.
a busy gardening  day today.
the tomatoes have been fed, as have the olives.
then i think i'll net some more of the fruit to keep the  birds away.
i didn't manage to get  everything done yesterday so today saw me spend a very long time on my  allotment planting peas.
i'm getting a bit desperate.
my mouth is already watering!
these too were removed.
my angelica is massive!
with any luck we will get some more so all will be well for another week.
this is a  fruit day.
at least before freezing  temperatures return.
blackberries are in abundance  now.
28/05/11 the moon is still in  aries.
a waxing moon in  libra is just right for planting flowers and at this time of year that means  daffodils and hyacinths.
i  can't believe my luck!
the moon is  in pisces and waning.
i do hope the carrots and parsnips  will be straight this time!
but i'm constantly reminded of this by bindweed and bramble shoots poking out  their heads all over.
as it's a waning moon, you might want to divide your herbacious perennials so as to increase your stock next year.
i can look forward to a beautiful display in the containers in my garden.
i think i found  heaven!
this time though the moon has been in gemini.
bio we often think about the full moon as having an effect on us.
i shared  it with my partner and it was delicious!!!!
the other difference is that during the sunny weather, i could smell them while i was working on the allotment.
6/01/12 today the moon has been in gemini.
this being a waning water moon, it was time to think of leaves.
i'm also pricking out sweet corn and more tomatoes.
the moon has been in aries today, but as it's waning, this is a quiet time in  the garden.
as blackcurrants are  rich in vitamin c, i freeze some of this tonic to have in winter and the  smallest sign of colds.
more lettuce, coriander  and cabbages.
in winter, root vegetables are muddy, especially if grown in clay!
26/12/11 it's now been three weeks since i was on the allotment.
however, there was a fly in the ointment.
just look out for the next moon in leo, as it will be waxing in  fire.
waxing moons encourage fast growth and vigour which is why we deal  with leaf vegetables and herbs on a waning moon.
so  i knew i was just in time to make the most of a very young moon in an earth  sign.
but  the moon in aquarius which is not a great moon for any gardening, has allowed  me the time to plan the next few days to deal with surplus fruit.
i'm looking forward to a little time on the allotment- well about half an hour.
this meant that i had to spend rather a long time digging it  out before planting.
another windy afternoon, but the sun came out and it was very pleasant indeed.
last week i made apple sauce.
it turned out to be the perfect easter morning!
you can do this by roughly pulling outone of the stems, ensuring  that there's a bit of root attached to it.
plants benefit from being in a nursery bed for a while as they have less competition than in border with lots of grown up and competing plants.
then i'll start to prepare the bed for the potatoes which will go in when the moon's in virgo.
i would  normally wait for the next time the moon is waning on an earth moon
this afternoon the moon will go into libra.
the beans i plan to  blanche and then freeze.
for one thing, the garlic needs planting and today  would have been the perfect day.
but biodynamic preparations also have some links with homeopathic principles.
i also harvested the first lot of onions.
i want it to get bigger before planting it.
take care to only removed branches that have fruited or you'll reduce the fruit yield for later in the year.
this made it an ideal day  to sow flower seeds.
first job on the list is to water the garden, the houseplants and the allotment.
so all in all a quiet day in terms of gardening,  but these days are just right for enjoyment!
consequently, they need less water and i stop feeding them.
turnips are one of the few crops at this time of year and they're rather large!
my thoughts have also been on composting.
the thing is that  today is especially windy again and so this proved to be a challenging job.
i also sowed more  parsnips, carrots, salsify, beetroot, celeriac and spring onions.
i'm very excited about this as  i've never had the space to grow flowers specifically for the house.
i can't quite believe that i'm going to enjoy a second crop of figs this year without even leaving the uk!
this means that it was my only chance this month to plant my tulip bulbs.
if you are growing them in the ground, it's easier to do it, if you have grown them in rows.
i'm going to feed my apples, strawberries,  pear, peach and cherry trees.
9 very heavy bags of "the good stuff" as one of my fellow allotment holders called it.
this means that i took away dead leaves and noticed that i had some rust on other leaves.
sweet and creamy beyond any  parsnips i’ve had anywhere else.
everyone who ate them, loved  them, but no one knew what a labour of love was sitting on their plate!
one final tip- if you have plants on the windowsill, and you close the curtains at night, be sure to bring them into the room.
26/10/11 the moon is now in scorpio.
we've been getting a mix of sun and cloud everyday but they really need  a few days of clear skies and sunshine!!!
however, care is needed with young seedlings like peas and beans which do not yet have developed root systems.
12/02/12 snow, and another week of my intensitve hypnotherapy course have kept me off the allotment.
this one is bigger so i think i'm in with a chance.
attend to any compost jobs necessary 13/02/12
look out for it, the smell is simply delicious.
i'll need to keep the slugs off.
looking back, i remember accidently cutting back the flowers- no flowers, no seed.
being a water moon, and therefore a leaf day, i also planted some rhubarb, oregano and coriander today.
i'll start to feed it and keep my fingers crossed.
if you like strawberries and have a little space for them, now is a great time of year to buy a few or ask a friend who has some to give you some runners.
i've been meaning to prick them out and put them in more comfortable quarters- that's bigger pots, since december.
the rain is keeping me off the allotment this morning but there is a little job that needs doing.
so the job has been to clear up the dead leaves.
thunderstorms yesterday evening meant  that my potatoes had to wait until this morning to be planted.
gone are the bowls of yoghurt with  blackcurrant, strawberry or gooseberry sauce.
it's  worth feeding the olives, i know that i get better results when i have done so  in the past.
if you have any flower shrubs needing pruning at this time of year, tomorrow will be a good day to do it.
borage flowers were also picked.
although this  appears like a good thing, actually they need thinning out.
in  the meantime, i've started the new year eating figs from my small tree which is  taking refuge from the winter indoors.
this is an air sign so it's a day for flowers.
29/05/11 the moon went into taurus this afternoon and it was nice to have unlimited time on my allotment for a change.
this is ideal for  putting in the bath but i like to use it to wash my face.
so tomatoes, cucumbers, aubergines, olives and figs have had some  attention in between showers, doing a radio show and teaching today!
4/04/11 yesterday was the new moon so the moon is now waxing.
00:56 wednesday 15th
happily, today moon and time coincided so i  spent a good part of the afternoon looking after them.
happily, it  all looks as though it's rotting nicely.
another windy afternoon, but the sun came out and  it was very pleasant indeed.
tomatoes, sweet pepper and okra, pea seedlings are looking big enough to be  pricked out.
i was teaching on sunday and then came down with a terrible cold.
the next project  is going to focus on soil and slug  control!!!!
the moon is still in pisces and it was so wet earlier that a fish might have had a good time!
25/11/11 with  the moon in sagittarius (a fire sign), my thoughts turned to fruit.
in preparation for the moon in taurus  tomorrow, and the planting of a new bed, my partner kindly got me some more  compost from the recycling centre.
air sign days are flower days, so my  thoughts turned to the tulip bulbs which i found on the top shelf of my shed.
this is for the benefit of my plants not my dinner.
the prevents them from growing so fast that they bolt (produce flowers too quickly and go to seed).
as this is an air sign, it was a day for flowers.
jackets are in the oven as i write.