containers are a fabulous way to add color, texture, fragrance and even tasty goodness to your client's home, whether they're intended for a balcony, patio or in a traditional suburban yard.
she trains master gardener volunteers and teaches the public about healthy garden practices.
color combinations can set the mood for a garden container and invite people in to a peaceful, relaxing setting or grab their attention with eye-popping bold colors.
anything goes with containers these  days, so try something new this year.
mix flowers in with vegetables, mix herbs with flowers, mix tropicals with  foliage plants.
plants will grow in most anything as long as there is enough soil or  soilless mix, and there is a drainage hole.
use a lot of organic matter in your soil or  soilless mix to increase growth and help retain moisture in the pot.
match styles and colors to the décor of the home or building.
recycled containers are wonderful to use, but should be food-safe if you are growing herbs and vegetables.
with slight elevation, the pot will drain better, and there will be fewer problems with deck and patio staining.
creativity also arises when containers are used as a true garden space.
plastic is generally not breakable, however.
food production in pots can be as simple as a single tomato plant in a five-gallon bucket, but adding a touch of creativity to a single tomato plant could turn it into a "salsa garden of delight."
water is absolutely essential, and outdoor containers will require frequent watering as the summer progresses and the plants get bigger.
proper soil is critical container gardens grow fast and furiously when provided with the right  soil environment.
it's advisable to  use a liner or secondary pot within the metal container.
keep in mind, though, the basics for a healthy container garden: good soil, good drainage, good site selection - and the right plants - will make and keep container plantings beautiful and healthy throughout the season.
a cluster of similar containers creates a small,  easy-to-maintain garden tableau.
lead is a problem  for humans, but copper and zinc can create toxicity issues for the plants.
happy  roots produce happy plants, beautiful blooms and more fruit!
for best results over the summer, incorporate into the soil mix a  timed-release fertilizer for flowering plants - do this before planting.
soil - real soil - adds a lot of weight to the  mix, but it can certainly be included for outdoor container gardening.
large containers that will be left outdoors all year round should be freeze  resistant if your winters come with ice and snow.
gardening can be tricky for those new to this most popular hobby, but gardening in containers is an easy way to get them started.
consider choosing edibles for a different twist on container gardening, surprise your customers with  colorful, edible plants.
full sun is defined as greater than six hours of direct sunlight a day, which is sometimes difficult to obtain with planters under overhangs and near buildings.
new styles look like terra cotta or glazed  ceramic; and although an advantage is that they're lightweight, this means they  can turn over easily.
full sun is needed for growing herbs, vegetables and many of the flowering plants.
color  combinations can set the mood for a garden container and invite people in to a  peaceful, relaxing setting or grab their attention with eye-popping bold  colors.
the container itself could be a focal point, or multiple containers could be used as a flowing connection between two garden areas, living spaces or as a guide to a business entrance.
in addition, they may have perlite or vermiculite added for drainage.
that  additional weight in the pot may be very helpful as the summer progresses and  your plants get taller and more top heavy.
a handy formula for creating container gardens has made the circuit for years now - the "thriller-filler-spiller" design with a tall plant in the center, something full and colorful in between and a vine hanging over the edge.
clay pots require a high frequency of watering, so they're great for  plants that like dry conditions.
adding  soil to a soilless mix is great for large containers; just make sure it is  clean, sterilized soil to reduce the risk of disease or insects.
large containers that will be left outdoors all year round should be freeze resistant if your winters come with ice and snow.
extra weight also keeps containers  from taking a walk late at night.
garden design is important because a container is a garden, albeit a small one, and it needs to blend and integrate into the surrounding area.
the basics of garden planning and design still apply: site selection and view
the variety of container styles can be overwhelming, but what's also important is the container's composition.
be sure  the plants that are added require the same care.
soilless potting mixes are generally organic, usually containing peat moss,  compost and sometimes pine bark.
resist the temptation to use a container  without drainage holes.
thinking outside the pot a simple but effective combination of  cool blooms and bold foliage makes a welcoming statement.
resist the temptation to use a container without drainage holes.
use whimsical planters for children's areas.
in addition, fertilize every two weeks with a balanced nutrient mix (for example, 10-10-10 or 20-20-20) or a fertilizer for flowering plants (such as 9-18-9 or 5-10-10).
advise your  clients to check containers daily to see if they are dry, and be sure to water  thoroughly till water drains through the bottom of the pot.
for best results over the summer, incorporate into the soil mix a timed-release fertilizer for flowering plants - do this before planting.
but  don't worry about following the rules.
in  addition, fertilize every two weeks with a balanced nutrient mix (for example,  10-10-10 or 20-20-20) or a fertilizer for flowering plants (such as 9-18-9 or  5-10-10).
anything goes with containers these days, so try something new this year.
try 'garden babies' butterhead lettuce, 'sweetie baby romaine', 'sea of red' lettuce, 'thumbelina' carrot, and 'salad bush' cucumber for a one-pot salad that's ready to harvest.
the basics of garden planning and design still apply: containers are the perfect way to try new plants, new techniques and even new foods, without as much investment as that spent on a large flower or vegetable garden.
some foreign imports may be contaminated  with lead, either in the clay or in the glaze.
use "feet" or a plant tray turned upside down  to keep the container up off the surface whether it's soil, concrete, brick or  decking material.
encourage clients to grow more, and encourage them to chronicle their adventures in container gardening through photographs and container "recipes."
full sun is defined as greater than six hours of direct sunlight a day,  which is sometimes difficult to obtain with planters under overhangs and near  buildings.
the container itself could be a focal point, or multiple  containers could be used as a flowing connection between two garden areas,  living spaces or as a guide to a business entrance.
mix flowers in with vegetables, mix herbs with flowers, mix tropicals with foliage plants.
try combining 'margherita' tomato, 'chichimeca' jalapeno pepper and a few  plants of cilantro - perhaps the all-america selection 'delfino' - to spice up  the container's look as well as the taste.
good drainage is the key to  successful container gardening.
color themes are always popular, whether it is the tried and true red,  white and blue or the cool, peaceful colors of silver, white and purple.
many ceramic and concrete containers must be protected over the winter to keep from cracking.
large, dramatic containers planted with cool colors provide an  elegant transition from concrete surface to the garden beyond.
once successful, they'll keep coming back for more - more containers, more plants, more fertilizer and more education.
once successful,  they'll keep coming back for more - more containers, more plants, more  fertilizer and more education.
in addition, with the regular and frequent watering that outdoor  container gardens require, many nutrients will be leached out of the soil.
keep in mind, though, the basics for a  healthy container garden: good soil, good drainage, good site selection - and  the right plants - will make and keep container plantings beautiful and healthy  throughout the season.
simply remove one or more as the season progresses.
cool colors such as blue, gray and green will keep them calm and  relaxed.
containers are a fabulous way to add color, texture, fragrance and even  tasty goodness to your client's home, whether they're intended for a balcony,  patio or in a traditional suburban yard.
with slight elevation, the pot will drain better, and there will be fewer  problems with deck and patio staining.
overflowing containers can be dramatic,  but may require a bit more care, a little more fertilizer and extra water.
pots can literally look like they have feet or claws, or the feet can simply be plastic pads or plastic triangular supports.
metal containers are sometimes an  issue due to potential lead, copper or zinc contamination.
try combining 'margherita' tomato, 'chichimeca' jalapeno pepper and a few plants of cilantro - perhaps the all-america selection 'delfino' - to spice up the container's look as well as the taste.
photos  courtesy of patti nagai container basics choose the container based on where it will be situated.
container gardens grow fast and furiously when provided with the right soil environment.
overflowing containers can be dramatic, but may require a bit more care, a little more fertilizer and extra water.
do not let plants sit in water; water is needed, but good drainage is also essential!
creativity comes out in individual container designs and groupings of containers when the limits are pushed.
ceramic, glazed pottery retains moisture longer than unglazed pots, so  make sure there is a drainage hole.
consider the planter as a piece of art, or simply as a functional holder for the plants, which will then become the work of art.
by patti nagai, ph.d. multiple hanging baskets combine with  standing containers to provide shade, privacy and brilliant color at an outdoor  café.
remember the container is a limited growth environment for plants; the soil mix will make the difference in their health.
patti nagai, ph.d., is horticulture educator for racine county, university of wisconsin extension in sturtevant, wis., serving both consumers and producers of horticultural products.
clay is very porous, and salts - and sometimes  algae - may build up on the exterior and rim of the pot.
plants will grow in most anything as long as there is enough soil or soilless mix, and there is a drainage hole.
some vegetables are beautiful and healthy: an all-eggplant container that would  also be a conversation starter could contain the all-america selection winners  'hansel', 'gretel' and 'fairy tale'.
hot colors such as orange and red warm people up and stimulate their appetite.
feet can be functional and fun, and should be promoted for  use with container gardens.
consider the space  available, how tall the plants will be (will a trellis or other support be  needed?), whether a single container or multiple containers will be used, and  most importantly: how much light will the container receive during the day?
use whimsical planters  for children's areas.
what type of container?
placement of containers could be on a porch, in a woodland area, in a vegetable garden or in a flowerbed.
the potential for container combinations is endless, as long as  you mix and match plants based on size and location of your container, and the  light and water needs of the plants.
this may seem like a lot of work, and you may need to remind your  customers that these plants are in a confined, limited resource pot and will  grow quickly.
some vegetables are beautiful and healthy: an all-eggplant container that would also be a conversation starter could contain the all-america selection winners 'hansel', 'gretel' and 'fairy tale'.
soilless potting mixes are generally organic, usually containing peat moss, compost and sometimes pine bark.
feet can be functional and fun, and should be promoted for use with container gardens.
begin with good design garden design is important because a container is a garden, albeit a small  one, and it needs to blend and integrate into the surrounding area.
care of the container garden water is absolutely essential, and outdoor containers will require frequent  watering as the summer progresses and the plants get bigger.
remember the  container is a limited growth environment for plants; the soil mix will make  the difference in their health.
adding soil to a soilless mix is great for large containers; just make sure it is clean, sterilized soil to reduce the risk of disease or insects.
consider using a liner for metal containers.
for a different twist on container gardening, surprise your customers with colorful, edible plants.
many ceramic and concrete  containers must be protected over the winter to keep from cracking.
consider the space available, how tall the plants will be (will a trellis or other support be needed?), whether a single container or multiple containers will be used, and most importantly: how much light will the container receive during the day?
happy roots produce happy plants, beautiful blooms and more fruit!
match styles and colors to the décor of the home  or building.
container gardens are an easy way to introduce these colors into a  living, working or even therapeutic area.
consider the planter as a piece of art, or simply as a functional holder  for the plants, which will then become the work of art.
use a lot of organic matter in your soil or soilless mix to increase growth and help retain moisture in the pot.
but don't worry about following the rules.
in addition, they may have perlite or  vermiculite added for drainage.
that additional weight in the pot may be very helpful as the summer progresses and your plants get taller and more top heavy.
use "feet" or a plant tray turned upside down to keep the container up off the surface whether it's soil, concrete, brick or decking material.
plastic containers are easy to use and easy to keep clean, and they retain  moisture better than clay pots.
she can be reached at patricia.nagai@ces.uwex.edu.
lead is a problem for humans, but copper and zinc can create toxicity issues for the plants.
soil - real soil - adds a lot of weight to the mix, but it can certainly be included for outdoor container gardening.
pots can literally look like they have feet or  claws, or the feet can simply be plastic pads or plastic triangular supports.
food production in pots can be as simple as a single  tomato plant in a five-gallon bucket, but adding a touch of creativity to a  single tomato plant could turn it into a "salsa garden of delight."
the variety of container styles can be overwhelming, but what's also  important is the container's composition.
creativity comes out in individual container designs and groupings of  containers when the limits are pushed.
choose the container based on where it will be situated.
in addition, with the regular and frequent watering that outdoor container gardens require, many nutrients will be leached out of the soil.
full sun is needed for growing herbs, vegetables and many of the flowering  plants.
below, use "feet" to keep the container up  off the surface, whether it's soil, concrete, brick or decking material.
for a "rustic" look,  however, this can be a bonus.
advise your clients to check containers daily to see if they are dry, and be sure to water thoroughly till water drains through the bottom of the pot.
cool colors such as blue, gray and green will keep them calm and relaxed.
metal is not recommended as a primary container for growing plants, as the  metals can leach into the soil and cause toxicity problems.
extra weight also keeps containers from taking a walk late at night.
good drainage is the key to successful container gardening.
try 'garden babies'  butterhead lettuce, 'sweetie baby romaine', 'sea of red' lettuce, 'thumbelina'  carrot, and 'salad bush' cucumber for a one-pot salad that's ready to harvest.
fill in with a bolder color or dramatic foliage.
sharing these successes can boost their confidence - and your bottom line.
gardening can be tricky for those new to this most popular hobby, but  gardening in containers is an easy way to get them started.
maybe a colorful salad container would be appreciated.
container gardens are an easy way to introduce these colors into a living, working or even therapeutic area.
this may seem like a lot of work, and you may need to remind your customers that these plants are in a confined, limited resource pot and will grow quickly.
do not let plants  sit in water; water is needed, but good drainage is also essential!
these containers also  are heavy and breakable.
placement  of containers could be on a porch, in a woodland area, in a vegetable garden or  in a flowerbed.
the potential for container combinations is endless, as long as you mix and match plants based on size and location of your container, and the light and water needs of the plants.
above, combining ornamentals with edibles saves space in a  small residential setting.
stand up for your industry plant health american nurseryman magazine - horticulture magazine and horticulture  books - april, 2011 features create excitement for clients and customers  with brilliant, easy-to-assemble and easy-to-sell container gardens.
hot colors such as orange and red warm people up and stimulate their  appetite.
a handy formula for creating container  gardens has made the circuit for years now - the  "thriller-filler-spiller" design with a tall plant in the center,  something full and colorful in between and a vine hanging over the edge.
that's the container that fills in, grows up and flows over  using every square inch of space available.
color themes are always popular, whether it is the tried and true red, white and blue or the cool, peaceful colors of silver, white and purple.
depending on the  metal, rust may develop from frequent watering.
metal containers are sometimes an issue due to potential lead, copper or zinc contamination.
recycled containers are wonderful to use, but should be food-safe  if you are growing herbs and vegetables.