the video below is an installment in dental health sovereignty.
for this reason i will continue to promote sovereign self-health care strategies here at danielvitalis.com.
i am so enthusiastic about this upcoming foraging and touring season.
this workshop will be fully catered with organic, local food, prepared by chef frank giglio, who is one of my best  friends and a truly culinary mentor of mine.
for those who would like a deeper look into the biological processes that  take place in the fermentation of cabbage into sauerkraut, check out  this link!
when we eat and drink – we practice relationship  with different forces, with spirits and sentience.
it is easy to lose sight of the obvious; that we are all friends and  workingtogether toward a common goal.
though each of us is very different, there is a common theme that we all agree on, and that is wanting to see a healthier, more peaceful, and more beautiful world for everyone.
our species’ “ultimate verdict” is the concept of death.
the initial fermentation stage is wonderful, as the cider develops its sparkling effervescence.
if you are thinking of coming, secure your space  soon because this workshop will fill!
simultaneously, it is these  elements whichunite our species, and always have.
through the alchemy of the fermentative process  something new will be created, and that new thing is known as the  “synbiotic”.
oh, and one other thing, a message to the haters…  i am making  a joke about the sales of this dvd for this reason alone.
~daniel dec 27, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments did you know that fermented beverages, specifically ethanol containing beverages were a crucial componant of most indigenous and traditional health strategies?
~daniel ps, check out this podcast i recently did where we discuss the history of  grains and agriculture, as well as some must have information on making the  grains you use a safe and healthy food!
in fact, for  much of the year i use it almost daily and have for several years now… chaga is normally decocted (boiled in water to produce a broth or tea) for  about two hours, yielding a very mild vanilla like flavor (it containsvanillin  as one of its components) which is great to drink on its own, with added cream  and a sweetener (i like maple syrup) to create a drink much like coffee.
we are friends first  and foremost, and we know the value of love and laughter.
current projects | view comments surthrival into the 21st century adaptation: the process by which an organism becomes better suited to its  environment.
either the pictures weren’t clear, the text  wasn’t informative enough, the author was lacking real experience, or the  book just wasn’t laid out in a user friendly way (ok, samuel  thayer’s books are an exception to these criticisms, and are excellent  wild food references).
what follows is a spoof of myself, david wolfe, and matt monarch all hanging out in my kitchen making the “longevity now conference 16 dvd set superfood tonic elixir smoothie”… i play all of the parts, and keep in mind that this was made on an extreme time budget.
its the sap of the maple tree.
each of the  three of us represent extrememly driven and productive individuals.
invite the forces of nature, say an orange or a  mushroom, and with the right kind of eyes – grow further infused with  infinite ecologies of everlasting spirits.
this is truest expression of environmentalism i can think of!
i will be  talking aboutrewilding and transcending human domestication, and how  we can stay strong, healthy, and actively-fit for a lifetime in a world that  constantly pushing us towards a deeper state of domestication.
while i know it is an ambitious goal, it is my personal desire  to hunt and gather.
my close  friendfrank giglio will be creating all of our meals throughout the weekend  using the freshest local, organic, and wild-crafted ingredients.
and even though it is winter here, i have been studying up  on the plants i want to learn in the next growing season, as well as using the  calendar in the back to determine when i will be harvesting the key plants i  intend to use throughout the year of 2011!
if you are looking for a premier chaga extract you can find it at my company,surthrival.
synbiotics like sauerkraut have long been used by those before us to  fortify their immune systems, assist in digestion (their acidity helps to lower  the ph of the stomach increasing the effectiveness of our hydrochloric acid),  and to maintain healthy levels of the probiotic organisms that colonize our  digestive lumen.
if you are reading this, i assume you are part of the change that is  coming, and i commend you.
if you are thinking of coming, secure your space soon because this workshop will fill!
for years i used this fungus without peeling it, which yeilded wonderful results, but now that i have included the traditional preperation method, it would be difficult to depart from.
i am hoping that in the future some of you will have the opportunity to come to maine to learn the art in person.
more than this, it also prevents the conversion of testosterone into a  metabolite known as dihydrotestosterone, which has been implicated in benign  prostate hyperplasia and even male pattern baldness.
not only is this book the most useful and user friendly i have seen on the subject, but by purchasing it you are directly supporting the preservation of remaining wild places in a radical new way, by educating people how to care for and interface with wild nature.
this video post is about peeling chaga, which is its traditional  preparation method in siberia (it is from their folk medicine that we have  learned of chaga).
before trying truly wild rice, i was familiar only with the store bought, paddy cultivated wild rice which, though wonderful in flavor and rich in nutrition, just simply pales in comparison.
this doesn’t refer to behaving wildly, or giving up your standards of personal conduct, rather it means “shed your domesticator“!
fermentation can seem a bit intimidating when you haven’t tried it before, and that is why i am posting this video.
this video details how you can make your own, and at a very low price  at that.
oil in the seas, nuclear fallout spreading across the globe, shortages of  food, genetic and degenerative disease, antibiotic resistant infectious agents,  mass extinctions, epidemic infertility, genetic modification, electro-smog,  etc, ad infinitum.
~daniel jan 09, 2012 | audio podcasts, current projects, featured videos, from the  road, interviews, wild food & water | view comments neti pots: nasal irrigation to smog-proof your sinuses how is your sinus hygiene?
plant-based edible living sculpture with vibrant living beings who in return sculpt you.
~daniel jan 05, 2011 | current projects | view comments
so it’s really up to us to take an interest if we are to make the friendship of those spirits.
this is going to be a very special weekend,  featuring talks by botharthur haines and myself, as well as introductions to several earth based surthrival skills.
the whole surthrival team with be present for the weekend, posted up at the booth, ready to share and connect with all of the participants!
the fresh maple sap is so refreshing, so hydrating, and tastes so good that it is almost shocking that more people aren’t taking advantage of this delicious, abundant, and free late winter/early spring drink!
be ithomo nexus, homo luminous, neo aboriginalis, or sylvapolitans – it’s on, and it’s your choice.
also, special thanks to my friends at evolver for inviting me to be a part  of thevisionary nutrition project, beginning on april 8th with my interview, where i will be teaching about the role of  psychoactive plants in the human ecological and dietary niche.
if you’d like to register for general admission, which includes viewing the workshop and hearing my talk, then register here.
the lifestyle that dominates the “developed world” today is wreaking havoc on our immunity, our endocrine systems, our neurology, our physiology and even our psychology.
i believe in their value.
check out the video below to hear more about ancestral ignition , and to see acclaimed botanist, author, and my foraging and aboriginal skills guide and all around friend, arthur haines, make a fire with a primitive tool known as the bow drill.
hint…  its over 2000!
because we will be teaching actual skills on the land, we must limit the  class size in order to ensure that each student experiences an attentive  learning environment.
~daniel jan 19, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, written word | view comments my good friend arthur haines has just released his new book ancestral plants, and i must say, it is amongst the best wild food and plant-use book i have yet to come across.
if you are looking for a riveting adventure, are interested in peruvian  shamanism, amazonian biology, visiting machu pichu, or just wanting to soak in  a rain forest hotspring, this trip might be for you.
the world and its spirits don’t really care if we do, for the  most part.
below is a link to one of the best books i have read on the subject.
hand harvested, sundried, fire parched, foot treaded, and wind winnowed wild rice is so soft and delicate in flavor that it simply has to be tasted to be understood.
i feel very good about sharing these with you because i know how much quality information they contain, and how diverse that information is.
this book was published by anaskimin, (the penobscot native word for “acorn”) a nonprofit organization here in maine, who’s purpose is the protection of open and wild spaces through public and private education.
i am expecting this to be a very intimate event, with lots of time for  personal exchanges, questions and answers, and exploration of territory that  isn’t always easy to cover in a one night talk.
please let us know what you thought about the video above, and if there are any subjects you would like to see covered in the future.
it was my desire to begin wild fermenting a local sugar of low to moderate  alcohol content that could be drank unfiltered and unpasteruized.
eat garbage conjured and sold by the darkest magicians – become “stay puft marshmallow man”; your ill-conceived nightmares.
no…  i couldn’t, i didn’t.
probably, but i didn’t.
i hope to see you there!
this book was published by anaskimin, (the penobscot native word for  “acorn”) a nonprofit organization here in maine, who’s  purpose is the protection of open and wild spaces through public and private  education.
growing in size, staring at our hands, finding our feet, rubbing our  eyeballs, mind boggled – immersed, surrounded, and face to face with an  overwhelming presence perceived, at times, as threatening.
this e-book is very comprehensive, and empowers us  to take our dental health into our own hands for a lifetime.
in contrast to many wild foraged plants, wild rice requires a more  considerable amount of know how and equipment to locate, access, harvest, and  process, so to show this in its entirety is simply outside the scope of a blog  post.
the surthriver believes in and aligns themselves with life.
the class has been filling up rather quickly  these last few weeks, and we are getting very excited for the spring foraging  to begin!
we are constantly working to serve  you better!
we strive to put on events that can nourish  the body, inform the mind, and touch the spirit.
the entire book is extensively footnoted so that you  can access the scientific literature from which so much of this information has  been compiled.
significantly, it’s acleanse – of body, of mind – and by extension, environment.
trees will be here long after we’re gone, and so will stones and bricks and clouds and the moon.
making your own nettle root tinctures at home can be easy, and only takes few minutes.
it has connected me with one of the essential practices  that makes us human.
i am grateful to the abundant earth.
one last piece i would like announce, is that i will be one of the featured speakers in the extended workshop taking place the monday after the conference concludes!
of course the beverages fermented by native peoples and by our traditional  cultural forebearers were much healthier and nutritionally viable than those of  today, created with local ingredients and wild yeasts, and were not filtered  and pasturized like the ones that most of us were raised around.
especially those “quacks” – originally a term reserved for dentists who employed mercury amalgam fillings – with less than shiny-white histories (e.g. fluoride, mercury, etc).
keep on rewilding yourself!
keep checking mycurrent events for more details, and i hope to meet you somewhere out there soon!
stinging nettle (urtica dioica) is an herbaceous perennial flowering plant  known by many of us for the painful stinging hairs (they are actually called  “trichomes”) that inject histamine into our skin like micro  hypodermic needles.
it is 3 days long, catered by chef frank  giglio with all local organic and wild food, and taught by myself and wild food  expertarthur haines.
this  is afree interview – call in to  listen live at 10  a.m. est (9 a.m. cst & 8 a.m. pst).
so i can honestly tell you they are the best around.
tuesday, november 16, 7-10pm
~d p.s. though saline water is what people usually put in their neti  pots, i have heard of many other solutions.
best of all, you can swallow this toothpaste, which yields all of the amazing health benefits of these detoxifying earth compounds.
and it’s your choice.
this health seminar unlike any other.
enjoy the article and let us know what you think!
many of us have taken our diets and nutrition into our own hands, though  when it comes to personal health care, few of us have really stepped out and  away from the entrenched medical system’s doctor/dentist treatment, and  the role we play in it as “patient” (from the latin meaning  “suffering”).
this is particularly perplexing  since the pollen of pine trees has been used for millennia in china and korea  as both food and a particularly powerful tonic and adaptogen, especially for  the elderly.
we are now getting ready for ancestral ignition, a workshop that myself and some good friends are hosting here at my home in maine,september 16th – 18th, 2011.
this began 65 years ago, and has become particularly disconcerting in the last few months since the damage to the japanese facility at fukushima.
“in order to live a magical life, you have to eat magical
i will be speaking in washington, dc at the take back your health conference on april 14th and 15th!
we have  created a world so very far outside of the balances of natural law and it is  now time that each one of us reestablishes a new equilibrium within ourselves.
there are those online whodo take this far too seriously and are constantly leveling accusations, and cruel  and harsh words against us.
you can imagine that prior to the widespread use of refrigeration, areas of  the world with large apple yields would have had quite a bit of cider on hand,  as the juice of fresh apples ferments quite readily.
for the last several years i have talked more about chaga (inonotus obliquus) than any other wild foraged food or medicine.
i have used this strategy, along side others, such as regular sauna use (check out clearlight saunas, it is the brand of infrared sauna that i have in my home), a clean whole food diet containing lots of wild foods and herbs,drinking natural spring water, implimenting regular functional exercise, all combined with and tied together with time spent in nature.
not only is this book the most useful and user friendly i have  seen on the subject, but by purchasing it you are directly supporting the  preservation of remaining wild places in a radical new way, by educating people  how to care for and interface with wild nature.
they can throw you down,  clean you up, send you out to space, thrust you on a new paths, make you change  your ways, whisper advice, keep you warm, dry, sheltered, alive, and in some  cases, even kill you.
it has been working very well for me, and it just might work for you too.
you will gain tremendous knowledge and be supporting  a wonderful and important cause.
now that i am moving away from “novelty foraging” toward a  subsistence that includes wild foods, i am acutely aware of this nutritional  crux.
an open source invitation into deeper relation with the many things that fuel, heal, and energize us; that which is alive all around us, co-createswith us.
i have just finished preparing my presentation, called “habitat, your guide to intentional lifestyle design” which will focus on specific strategies for more than just vigorous health, but epi-genetic wealth.
better yet, take some time to develop mastery of this skill by making it a  regular practice!
it is exciting to see who takes the plunge and  comes along!
you can check out lots of my past interviews with  him (as well as hundreds of other amazing guests) in hisextensive audio archives .
i think of it like this, imagine that david wolfe, matt monarch, and i all  walked into a restraunt together (ok, what restraunt would that be?
it was schinus terebinthifolius, the brazilian pink peppercorn, and while not a true peppercorn, it is the pink berry we all have seen in the high end peppercorn blends and fancy see-through peppermills.
it is easy to lose sight of the obvious; that we are all friends and workingtogether toward a common goal.
it does not mean we are contending with one another, and certainly doesn’t affect our friendship or support of eachother.
the longevity now conference is held at the orange county hilton in costa mesa, ca.the longevity now conference is by far, the most original, comprehensive, and exhilarating healing and longevity seminar i have ever seen.
for those of you who are interested in going deeper, i would highly  recommend an e-book by my good friend nadine artemis called “successful self-dentistry, how to avoid the dentist without ignoring  your teeth”.
and if we can do that–a big  task, no doubt–then the way people interact with the world and the  spirits of the world and universe will change, automatically, from one of  dominance to one of cooperation.
in gratitude, ~daniel vitalis subscribe to entries subscribe to comments all content © 2012 by daniel vitalis compression plugin created by jake ruston - sponsored by memory foam mattress pad and gpt sites.
to compliment and expand on my video, i have also included a video with botanist arthur haines detailing how he taps his maples, and prepares his maple syrup.
it can be so easy to find and focus on the differences in what each of us is teaching and if we are not careful, to allow ourselves to be divided by it.
turning  simple sugars into ethanol, amino acids, and b complex vitamins, not to mention  a culturally and ritually significant inebriant is a nearly ubiquitous human  behavior, and part of what holds the fabric of traditional societies together.
they take our work and contort it in an attempt to make a mockery of us.
for this reason i will continue to promote sovereign self-health care  strategies here at danielvitalis.com.
nettle root contains compunds that bind to shbg taking the place of testosterone and thereby keeping free testosterone in the blood.
it is the open, clear, and relaxed sense of breathing; the ability to fully utilize your respiration that makes you conscious of its importance.
the experience of procuring food directly from wild nature is truly, for me  at least, one of the great joys of living!
and while we use the term  “intoxicant” to refer to drinks that contain alcohol, these people  didn’t associate their sacred beverages with “toxicity” at  all.
thanks for watching, and please let me know what you think.
while the aerial parts of the plant (the parts that grow above the ground) are most commonly eaten as a pot herb (cooked) or made into infusions (teas), it is the roots from which we can extract its potent androgenic substances.
none the less, it will  now be immortalized forever.
while i get to meet so many of you out on the road when i am teaching  around the world, this is our chance to spend a full week together, exploring  the wonders of this beautiful planet!
if you know anyone who might be interested in these events, please share this post with them!
we have become overfed and under nourished.
we have priced this event very resonably, and i look forward to sharing a message of empowerment, resolve, wisdom, and health with all who attend.
your probably wondering what “a moderate amount of  alcohol” is.
the surthrivalist differs from the survivalist in that they operate from a  place of love and recognition of the inherent bounty of the natural world.
this is because of a curing process used with commercially prepared “wild rice” that causes the grains to become very hard and locks in some of the unpleasantly strong flavors.
i love drinking it this way throughout the day, and like saving the older, dryer, and “harder” cider for the evenings with dinner and after.
or that those who drink a moderate amount of ethanol live longer than those who drink heavily or don’t drink at all?
celebrated kripalu center may 20th
while many people use probiotic supplements in an attempt to achieve these ends, most often lacto-fermented foods perform these tasks better, can be made at home from whole, fresh, local foods, are inexpensive, and add a considerable amount of quality nutrition in the form of highly absorbable predigested, living food.
please let us know what you thought about the video above, and if there are  any subjects you would like to see covered in the future.
from it nothing is hidden and it knows what’s what –
greetings and thanks for visiting!
the question remains, what will separate those who go on to inherit the  earth from those who’s genes will fade into the recess of geologic  history.
david wolfe and hislongevity warehouse exists to support peoples health and developement, and is critical to keeping the message alive and available.
i look forward to meeting you, and  the special few who attend!
it has been really exciting to share these with you all, and for me it feels like a timely message, given the considerable distrust and dissatisfaction so many of us have been feeling for mainstream “medicine” in recent years.
greetings rewilder’s!
duringplant dietas, one is isolated, eats very little, and/or very simply, in order to remove distractions, sensitize one’s body/mind/spirit to the subtleties of the spirit world, to become transparent, lucid and focused in it.
i guess this is hypothetical).
another aspect that makes this seminar unlike any other, is that each individual participant will be “grounded” (using the latest cutting-edge technology provided to us byearthing) throughout the event in its entirety!
it only took a few moments of internet research to discover the identity of  this wildly successful invasive.
i can hardly believe this is  real….
this book has become part of my  everyday kit.
in fact, it seems to me that the only humans who will be able to inhabit this planet soon will be those who have developed and implemented strategies to thrive in this brave new polluted planetary ecology.
now that i am just weeks away from surthrival’s launch of its new pine pollen extracts, i wanted to share a video that is yet one more piece of my natural hormone maintnance strategy.
for those of us who are developing or returning to our ancestral health through traditional and indigenous nutritional practices, few food preparation skills are as valuable to possess as lacto-fermentation.
stephen was sure to include extensive sections on the historical use of pine pollen in various traditional medicine systems, its chemistry, as well as its androgen profile, dosages for use, and yes… even how you can harvest your own!
if you are interested in developing this skill set as well, or if you have experience but are ready to go deeper please check out myancestral plants workshop this may in southern maine!
check out the video interview below to learn more about the book, and click here to get your copy now!
it was my friends  from the longevity now conference.
imagine the fearlessness it takes to put yourself out there  to the world.
alcohol consumption goes further into antiquity than can be  accounted for, in other words it is part of the human story.
they take our work and contort it in an  attempt to make a mockery of us.
today, most of the worlds citizens are living with an inverse relationship  between micronutrients (vitamins, minerals, etc) and macronutrients (calories).
lastly i want to share the link to the newly rebuilt surthrival website!
everything has a spirit.
the toxic cations are then transported out of our bodies, along with the zeolite powder in our bowel movement.
regardless,  taking actions like these has put me at considerable ease about the  radio-isotopes in our environment.
merge with the maelstrom, let gaia absorb you.
this blog is in no way supporting reckless or irreverent use of ethanol.
rather, and more vital to our personal healing – as well as to the continuation of life as we know it – is our becoming acquainted with the organism producing the food or medicine itself.
as i began experimenting with tissue detoxification using zeolites and clay, it dawned on me that these, when rendered into a fine flour-like powder, have just the right amount of abrasiveness to take the place of the toothpaste i had grown up with.
this project began a few years back when i read stephen’s outstanding  book “the natural testosterone plan”.
and if we can do that–a big task, no doubt–then the way people interact with the world and the spirits of the world and universe will change, automatically, from one of dominance to one of cooperation.
it is the strengthened engagement with the harmony of humanity – the  beautiful songs we’ve sung and are singing, our peak performance, the  best of the best – that boils down to our collective necessities –  food, medicine, life – from which can be drawn ever-expanding analogies,  inter-elated metaphor, and metamorphosis.
we are less than a  month away, so if you would like to join us – by us i mean the very  amazing and interesting group of people who have assembled for this trip  – contactjeannette at info@rawflora.com, and check out the 11 day 10  night itinerary here.
and when we, mankind, begin interacting with the world, rather than trying to dominate it, well, i think mankind will be better off.
commonly referred to and often mistaken as  “the ayahuasca diet”- plant dietas are, in very general terms; a discipline and process of cleansing, purging, healing,  learning, and building right-relationship.
each day we are all breathing the many stow-away particles (read: pollutants) that free float amongst what was once, some pretty fresh air here on planet earth.
you can learn a lot from arugula – even more from cacao, or from an elder like maize.
how would i be able to do what i do if i otherwise had a full time career doing something else?
it sort of turned into an informal contest, and i was determined to win… it all started last week with my team and i brainstorming about how we could get peoples attention.
this quiet, ripping whorl, where time is in question, and of its essence.
as though i was, or have been, turning myself into some kind of garden.
it can be so easy to find and focus on the differences in what each of us  is teaching and if we are not careful, to allow ourselves to be divided by it.
none the less, it will now be immortalized forever.
shailene, from all of us, thank you for all  that you are doing!
this current video is a 6 part dental health and maintenance strategy that has replaced the role of dentistry in my life.
no… i couldn’t, i didn’t.
i was going to  back down.
for years now the three of have worked seperately and together in the same general arena and field.
arthur writes from a place of profound understanding of the nutritional  and medicinal actions of wild foods, as well as the important uses that these  95 plants held for the native people of this continent (and still do for the  “neo-aboriginal” today).
in the meantime, check out the video below to see the harvest and  processing of these beautifully blush bunches of berries!
i have events planned around the us, canada, and even in peru.
this video is a message to  those people.
in fact, not only does this lifestyle exist, i feel that many apects of   it will be as common to people in the coming decades as taking a shower  or brushing your teeth is today.
in the  environment we now live in, with its extremes of climate, toxic foods,  petro-chemicals, pharmaceuticals, polluted air and water, etc, only those who  have developed strong, wise, and strategic methods for thriving will be able to  carry forth their genetic material and live through this phase of history to  populate the new and coming world.
the experience of procuring food directly from wild nature is truly, for me at least, one of the great joys of living!
if you are looking for a riveting adventure, are interested in peruvian shamanism, amazonian biology, visiting machu pichu, or just wanting to soak in a rain forest hotspring, this trip might be for you.
today i have been considering what an honor it is to be a part of this  great change that is taking place here on our planet, and in ourselves.
these particles are constantly  lodging in and congesting our upper respiratory tract, creating an environment  for infection and/or being drawn still deeper into our lower respiratory tract  (our lungs).
my company surthrival recently started carrying what we  feel are the most beautiful and durable ceramic neti pots available anywhere,  andyou can get one for yourself right here on our newly  designed website (we are pretty excited about this)!
not only will you discover the latest advances in longevity technology that aren’t available anywhere else, but this event will be nothing short of one of the most uplifting, educational, and inspirational weekends of your life.
each day is packed with truly exciting adventures, from visits to cacao plantations to white water rafting down a deep jungle river, from a forest canopy eco adventure to visits with the local shaman for healing jungle herbs.
your feedback is crucial to us, and we really do love hearing from you.
– 22nd for our invincible health workshop, a weekend of inspiration,  invigoration, and community building with other’s who share your  passions, your insights, and your lifestyle.
the case with clay is very similar, though the phenomena in this case is referred to as adsorption, which is also an electrical binding, but in this case to the surface of the clay particle and without the accompanying exchange of a cation.
their constant  quest instead was securing the macronutrient (carbohydrate, lipid, and protein  calories) that they required for their huge daily energy expenditures.
the softness is like that of the most perfectly cooked white rice but with all the nutritious nutty flavors of a wild intact grain.
my experience has been that you can only truly feel the chronic congestion after you have cleared it.
if your looking to smog proof your sinuses, help to prevent sinus issues in general, and improve your respiratory health, give the neti pot a try.
from my perspective, it appears that a diet that lacks the geophagy pattern could not be called a “natural diet” at all, as it would essentially be deficient in these all-important compounds.
working safely and respectfully with ayahuasca and other teacher plants,  alongside raw food/garden-variety plants, the teacher’s assistants so to  speak, leads, of course, to many physical and spiritual benefits.
also, i want to let you know that though this book was written for plants  of the north east, dozens of the plants here will  be found throughout  north america, and even beyond.
instead i have prepared this short video to highlight the  experiences i had ricing this season.
the behavior is termed“geophagy”, and is unquestionably part of the species-specific diet of human beings.
and  going through the process is yet another gratifying experience of building  self-sufficiency.
it was schinus terebinthifolius, the  brazilian pink peppercorn, and while not a true peppercorn, it is the pink
today i have been considering what an honor it is to be a part of this great change that is taking place here on our planet, and in ourselves.
the world of “modern medicine”, to include modern dentistry, seems far less interested in our health than it does in furthering its quasi-scientific agendas, human experiemention, and profit driven procedures.
trust me, it will help.
magical  food” -david
a sentiment  reinforced in a recent new york times magazine article describing the plant  take-over of new orleans’ lower ninth ward, where “for six and a  half years, the neighborhood has undergone a reverse colonization —  nature reclaiming civilization.”
stephen, having  studied pine pollen extensively, had much to share on the subject.
be ithomo  nexus, homo luminous, neo aboriginalis, or sylvapolitans – it’s on,
i encourage you to give it a try, and to get out into your local ecosystem to commune with your landscape.
ok, a little caveat, we might not actually add the probiotic, but rather  let it colonize itself, in what is called a “wild fermentation”, as  is the case here with sauerkraut.
while i hadn’t had personal experience with this plant before, i do have plenty of experience with the principles of wild food identification, harvest, and processing, and each of these skills translate well from biome to biome, from one eco-system to the next.
for years now the three of have worked  seperately and together in the same general arena and field.
this, if you have time, is a must see!
cider is so easy to produce at homea cave man could do it!
there are times when we all come together for work and play, and when we do, all of these apparent differences are set aside.
the question remains, what will separate those who go on to inherit the earth from those who’s genes will fade into the recess of geologic history.
we have created a world so very far outside of the balances of natural law and it is now time that each one of us reestablishes a new equilibrium within ourselves.
though each of us is very different, there is a common theme that we all  agree on, and that is wanting to see a healthier, more peaceful, and more  beautiful world for everyone.
still for my daily use this  is now my preferred method.
stephen was sure to include extensive sections on the historical use of  pine pollen in various traditional medicine systems, its chemistry, as well as  its androgen profile, dosages for use, and yes…  even how you can  harvest your own!
we will literally cover healthful living from conception to the grave and beyond.
i can hardly believe this is real….
in other words, we can use our environment and lifestyle to activate our genetic potential for a more robust experience of life on earth!
they are so obsessed, and take it allso seriously that they have committed their lives to displaying hatred and spewing vitriol, claiming that their way, their method, their diet, is the only viable truth.
michael pollan, for example, explores this extensively and convincingly in his  work, posing the question: “what if we are all just pawns in corn’s  clever strategy game to rule the earth?”.
the second will focus on  the creation of fire from friction, using natural materials from the landscape,  the way it was done for the last 400,000 years.
our lodge sits directly on a private tropical beach, where the noni trees  grow abundantly to meet the gentle lick of the caribbean sea.
to learn more about this excellent dvd offer or to purchase your copy  today,follow this link.
especially those “quacks” – originally  a term reserved for dentists who employed mercury amalgam fillings – with  less than shiny-white histories (e.g. fluoride, mercury, etc).
it is a wild new idea that comes from the effects our modern lifestyle has had on our epi-genome and our health.
i recently did an interview with len foley of the longevity now team, in preparation for the event which you can listen to here, and get a taste of what i will be speaking about at the conference!
imagine for a moment living without a fossil fuel driven infrastructure to  deliver us our “fresh” veggies in january and an electrically  powered refrigerator to store them in, and its importance and relevance becomes  clear.
i eventually engaged and evolved my raw food/living diet path as a kind of  inverted version of aplant dieta.
- stephen harrod buhner i suspect you will all enjoy this book as much as i have enjoyed being a part of it.
it has already become one of my most valued herbal references.
our ability to generate and maintain fire is a powerful thing indeed, so it is our intention to pass on not just the skill, but the ethics of stewardship as well.
in the environment we now live in, with its extremes of climate, toxic foods, petro-chemicals, pharmaceuticals, polluted air and water, etc, only those who have developed strong, wise, and strategic methods for thriving will be able to carry forth their genetic material and live through this phase of history to populate the new and coming world.
the roll of  shamanic knowledge for us westerners introduced to those spirits is to spread  that knowledge, make communication easier.
the last two weekend events we hosted in maine turned out to be game-changers for nearly everyone involved.
the longevity now conference  dvd’s are amazing.
from  “organic” store-bought toothpaste brands, to tooth soaps and  powders, and even aboriginal “chew sticks” – nothing has been  the right fit for my self-dentistry needs.
~daniel dec 27, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments wild fermented hard cider did you know that fermented beverages, specifically ethanol containing  beverages were a crucial componant of most indigenous and traditional health  strategies?
one of the things i really appreciate about it is that it is written as  more than just a wild food guide, it is a plant medicine guide as well,
it says “you can never make fun of us better than we  can of ourselves!”, and that living without humor in your life is more  than ugly, it is unhealthy and violates one of realities prime directives.
i eventually engaged and evolved my raw food/living diet path as a kind of inverted version of aplant dieta.
i will be teaching a three day workshop at the kripalu institute in western massachusetts may 20-22nd of 2011, called invincible health, the intention of which is to develop in each participant a strong desire to thrive combined with the knowledge necessary to take their health into their own hands with poise and grace.
that doesn’t mean i don’t appreciated a reprieve, and a chance to charge up my blood with vitamin d from the equatorial sun just before spring begins (ok, the trip actually concludeson the spring equinox)!
i will be teaching a three day workshop at the kripalu institute in western  massachusetts may 20-22nd of 2011, called invincible health, the intention of  which is to develop in each participant a strong desire to thrive combined with  the knowledge necessary to take their health into their own hands with poise  and grace.
i look forward to meeting you, and the special few who attend!
there will be just one  tour, and space is extremely limited, so please contact us immediately at  info@rawflora.com to reserve your space!
the  primary fermentative organism present in these kinds of preserves is  lactobacillus acidophilus (who’s name means “acid loving milk  bacteria”) one of our bodies primary microbial symbionts.
~d nov 08, 2010 | current projects, wild food & water, written word | view comments i am very excited to be co-hosting this up-coming autumn workshop with my good friend and mead-mentor, jim lindenschmidt ofbardic brews and the sweet peas podcast.
thanks for visiting and please let me know what you think of the book!
my company,surthrival,  became the first to bring a fully developed pine pollen product line to the  natural foods market place in north america.
this monograph is intended to remedy that oversight and help establish it as one of the most important medicinals in the herbalist’s repertory.”
we are now  awakening from the last few decades of over-fed / under-nourished slumber and  collectively reclaiming our sovereign health!
the neti pot gives us the ability to clean our upper  respiratory tract, in much the same way that a toothbrush cleans our mouth or a  shower washes our skin, before these particles can accumulate or be drawn  deeper.
i guess that is the nature of this technology.
we were sure to get them in several different colors so that you can choose one thats right for you.
i have personally been witness to it in my own life amongst people that i love dearly.
the film exposes the myths and mistruths that the diet-fad and processed food industries have perpetrated on a mis-educated populace for so many years.
also, i feel the need to point out the obvious here: people buy products from myself or my colleagues because we carry extremely good products, products that help people.
come play with us  in paradise as we explore the bounty of the pachamama (mother earth)!
there are plenty of micronutrients in the foods that i forage from my ecosystem, but most of my actual caloric needs still come from my local farm.
was it edible, and if so could i make the  time to harvest some of it before my flight home?
and now its more important than ever!
it has connected me with one of the essential practices that makes us human.
knowing what i know  now, i wish i had started the day i came into this world.
please come visit me and the  surthrival team, and support this important east coast event!
the second will focus on the creation of fire from friction, using natural materials from the landscape, the way it was done for the last 400,000 years.
we are less than a month away, so if you would like to join us – by us i mean the very amazing and interesting group of people who have assembled for this trip – contactjeannette at info@rawflora.com, and check out the 11 day 10 night itinerary here.
spending time witharthur haines has propelled my wild nutrition path forward in ways i am so grateful for.
to your health and adaptation!
this is truest expression of  environmentalism i can think of!
here is a recent interview with her in black book magazine titled  “eating clay and super humans”!
and going through the process is yet another gratifying experience of building self-sufficiency.
for me, lacto-ferments like sauerkraut are one of my primary ways of preserving and consuming local vegetables through out the long maine winters.
each character had to be filmed separately and i had to shave between each filming session.
essentially though, it is process of healing and strengthening.
was it edible, and if so could i make the time to harvest some of it before my flight home?
duringplant dietas, one is  isolated, eats very little, and/or very simply, in order to remove  distractions, sensitize one’s body/mind/spirit to the subtleties of the  spirit world, to become transparent, lucid and focused in it.
what is funny to me, is the way that  these people seem to do this as a near full time job!
simply follow the steps in the video below, and in a couple of weeks you will have your first batch ready to eat!
the initial fermentation stage is wonderful, as the cider  develops its sparkling effervescence.
in fact, not only does this lifestyle exist, i feel that many apects of it will be as common to people in the coming decades as taking a shower or brushing your teeth is today.
daily comm-union, even telepathy, most often one-way, where a plant invited into the human body as food or medicine can “see what you mean”.
it was our friends and colleagues trying to out-do us (special thanks tojason wrobel and ron obadia) with videos of their own!
the following is a short excerpt from the opening pages of the book: “although the western world has been undergoing its greatest herbal renaissance in over a century the medicinal actions of trees are often overlooked, perhaps none more so than pine.
nettle root  contains compunds that bind to shbg taking the place of testosterone and  thereby keeping free testosterone in the blood.
we can each enjoy our meal together over laughter and appreciation for each others company.
the differences between us are beautiful and healthy, and ultimately what make this whole ride so much fun.
what is funny to me, is the way that these people seem to do this as a near full time job!
watching the season change, feeling the solar low just  before we emerge into the spring, seeing the tracks of the animals who move  like ghosts through this icy, crystalline landscape, all of this brings out the  wonder of a child in me!
you the reader may have encountered some of the harassing internet trolling  that each of us has had to endure.
when we eat and drink – we practice relationship with different forces, with spirits and sentience.
for instance, lacto-fermentaion actually increases the amount of  nutrition that was present in the vegetable alone (by converting sugars into  protein rich bacterial bodies, b vitamins, and omega 3 fatty acids), increase  the bio-availability of the existing nutrition (by breaking down cell walls by  predigesting the vegetables cellulose, and removing anti-nutrients) and all the  while preserving the inherent nutrition better than freezing, canning, or  drying!
not only does lactobacillus acidophilus allow us to preserve and even  increase the amount of nutrition in our vegetables, but it also aids in  digestion and increases our immunity too!
i am so  proud ofsurthrival as a project, as a company, and as a team!
each day we are all breathing  the many stow-away particles (read: pollutants) that free float amongst what  was once, some pretty fresh air here on planet earth.
as each season goes by and my skills  in this area increase, not only have i developed a strong sense of food  security, my direct relationship to the earth as an abundant and loving  provider continues to increases.
studies indicate that 1 – 3 drinks ethanol  drinks per day seems to extend lifespans!
if you would like to see the rest of thetalk, as well as those presented by the rest of the longevity
harvesting nettle rhizomes greetings everyone!
i suspect you will all enjoy this book as much as i have enjoyed being a  part of it.
it is exciting to see who takes the plunge and comes along!
the main focus of this retreat is to share theancient and ancestral skill of aboriginal friction fire with all of those who attend.
i really feel that this movie has the potential to make some real change in the lives of people you know, so please turn your friends and loved ones onto it as well!
this will be a fun call, and patrick is never shy about taking me into edgy and interesting territory!
we add to that the  “probiotic” organism (these are healthy, symbiotic micro-organisms)  that will be performing the fermentation (here it will be lactobacillus).
the exotic sweet and spicy aromatic flavor of these brittle pink berries was well worth the risk, and i was certain i was on the trail of a new wild food ally.
after years of hosting  events and retreats, we have learned what powerful transformational tools these  kinds of workshops can be.
since the prostrate is the endocrine gland thats responsible for male  orgasm, taking care of it for a lifetime is probably a good idea!
that doesn’t mean i don’t appreciated a reprieve, and a chance  to charge up my blood with vitamin d from the equatorial sun just before spring  begins (ok, the trip actually concludeson the spring equinox)!
while you may not need nettle root as a medicine for yourself, its highly likely you know a man who does.
please allow me to summerize.
this e-book is very comprehensive, and empowers us to take our dental health into our own hands for a lifetime.
but we are new here – sometimes awesome, but ultimately amateur, and we’ve been grasping.
most of us brush our teeth and we usually expect the same of others.
each one of  us must determine how we will responsibly relate to it as a substance, and how  we will steward it with health and safety in mind.
~daniel nov 18, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water | view comments greetings everyone!
this is the stuff comedy is born of!
we can use these advances to ground us while we are spending time indoors, working away by keeping our feet on a ground pad, or wearing one of their grounding bands.
while i have also been fermenting honey with some success (a beverage called mead), i wanted to brew something with a milder effect (mead has the alcohol content of wine, upwards of 16 % or more) that could be done with very little labor or input, just the way our ancestors had done it.
your probably wondering what “a moderate amount of alcohol” is.
it seems like a cold way to live, and very, very lonely.
the brazilian pink peppercorn tampa bay was the site of another example of an urban forage, and this time  with an exotic invasive that produces more food than i could ever hope to  harvest.
in fact, if you know where to look, you could get everything you  would need for making all the toothpaste you would use for the rest of your  life for probably under $100!
each of us  has spent countless hours employing personal development strategies to fulfill  the blueprints for who we truly are and what we want to share with the world.
we will have an  experienced chef on hand to prepare our meals, and keep us fueled up for our  exciting and dramatic daily excursions!
this plant, once planted ornamentally is now southern florida’s most noxious invasive, and today is illegal to plant, sell, or transport within the state!
i am very excited about  both of these classes, and will be posting the details shortly.
after a few days, to a few weeks, of implementing this practice it will become immediately clear why i am recommending it.
something i could practice daily as a way to learn from, and build relations with numerous “common” plants like kale, chard, chia, blueberries, tomatoes, pears, for example.
my company,surthrival, is my contribution to peoples health and healing and is my way of operating economically in a world that demands this of me.
the  survivalist too often operates from a place of fear and uncertainty.
(the actual video of harvesting wild rice is at the bottom of this blog  post!)
we all participate, we all dance with these elements – and it is these elements that, by and large, make up our world.
aside from myself speaking, we will be graced with the presence of many other amazing health experts such asdavid wolfe, dr. joseph mercola, frank giglio, donna gates, truth caulkins, nadine artemis, and several others!
dec 08, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments (the actual video of harvesting wild rice is at the bottom of this blog post!)
what role do psychoactive’s play today, and if they are no longer represented in our food supply, is it possible that we can become “alkaloid deficient”?
and don’t forget to check out the mead making workshop that i have coming up next week.
we went back to the drawing board.
still for my daily use this is now my preferred method.
i will be talking about everything from the “best foods available in the super-market” to the “ worst food that people are eating today“.
this book has become part of my everyday kit.
given the drive for new plant  medicines and the continual search for a new herb-of-the-day that will simulate  excitement in the general populace (e.g. rhodiola, maca), it is astonishing  that pine has been unrecognized for so long.
i so look forward to sharing my knowledge on this ancient beverage at our workshop coming up in november!
i had grown up with.
please post your comments so that we can get up on the site for the continued stimulation of the minds of our readers!
it has been  practiced around the world and is present in virtually all pre-industrial  populations.
in fact, aspects of it will have to be implemented if we are to continue to inhabit this world.
there will be over $10,000 in prizes given out throughout the event as well!
it was a tremendous honor to be a part of the new documentary film “hungry for change”.
these are made right here in the state of maine (where we are based  out of) and i have personally tested them now for almost a decade and a half,
knowing what i know now, i wish i had started the day i came into this world.
this project began a few years back when i read stephen’s outstanding book “the natural testosterone plan”.
the fact that we ordered different dishes does not mean we  are in nutritional opposition to one another.
i promise a profound and moving experience in this  workshop.
she talks about foraging, spring water and her daily clay consumption!
and when we, mankind, begin interacting with  the world, rather than trying to dominate it, well, i think mankind will be  better off.
all three of us are so focused on creating the life that we desire, each of  us so good at what we do, that we have all become characters as archetypical as  those found in the pages of a comic book.
imagine for a moment living without a fossil fuel driven infrastructure to deliver us our “fresh” veggies in january and an electrically powered refrigerator to store them in, and its importance and relevance becomes clear.
there are plenty of micronutrients in the foods that i forage from  my ecosystem, but most of my actual caloric needs still come from my local farm.
i had just a mere three hours to make some magic.
before trying truly wild rice, i was familiar only with the store bought,  paddy cultivated wild rice which, though wonderful in flavor and rich in  nutrition, just simply pales in comparison.
thanks for visiting and please let me know what you think of  the book!
null null most of us were taught to spit our toothpaste out, which, given the host of  less-than-beneficial ingredients (particularly fluoride) is pretty sound  advice.
there are times when we all come together for work and play, and when we  do, all of these apparent differences are set aside.
what an amazing autumn it has been!
click here to see a 15 minute clip of the my main lecture from the event, titled “habitat, living the life of our biological design” which i feel came out wonderfully!
lacto-fermentation, the kind of vegetable fermentation that produces foods like sauerkraut (as well as kimchee and brined pickles), preserves our food in lactic acid, and was one of the dominant preservation techniques used by our ancestors before sugar and preservatives became the norm.
perhaps  it is because they make their money in ways they are not so proud of.
the softness  is like that of the most perfectly cooked white rice but with all the  nutritious nutty flavors of a wild intact grain.
these wonderful drinks were both relatively low in  alcohol, with probably just a bit less than a modern beer, and loaded with  nutrition and calories, making them as much a food as a drink.
if you can’t make it to the  event, but would like to watch the video stream, here isthe link where you can  sign up to watch at home.
very disturbing, but strangely entrancing…  i  guess that is the nature of this technology.
it might not be easy, though that doesn’t mean it can’t be exciting – and yes… maybe even fun.
~d p.s. though saline water is what people usually put in their neti pots, i have heard of many other solutions.
“i think that once a person is aware of the life in everything,  they can begin to access the spirit of everything.
that should be obvious, though there are those that detract from this.
the first will be a three day wild food education, identifaction, gathering, processing, and preparation workshop!
eating and drinking is intimate communication.
while you may  not need nettle root as a medicine for yourself, its highly likely you know a  man who does.
more than any other medicinal mushroom, this has been my number one herbal/fungal ally.
if you are interested in joining us for this online workshop just click the banner below.
my girlfriend ali, my operations manager and brother kaleb, and my best friend and business partner leighlon and i then spent several hours posting this video to everyone we could think of in our social networks.
you can find the details of that event here.
i really feel that this movie has the  potential to make some real change in the lives of people you know, so please  turn your friends and loved ones onto it as well!
we can each enjoy our meal together over  laughter and appreciation for each others company.
one of the things i really appreciate about it is that it is written as more than just a wild food guide, it is a plant medicine guide as well, detailing herbal uses of these plants in addition to their uses as foods.
i am proud of the work that i do there, and of the people that this business supports.
they told me that i had until midnight to get  something onto youtube, if i was to regain my honor.
of course today it is nearly the opposite, where most of the (over) developed world has calorie rich diet composed of overly processed and refined food – think white sugar, white flour, high fructose corn syrup, etc – that is deeply lacking in micro-nutrition.
in  particular i am referring to zeolites ability to perform cation exchange -  cec or cation exchange capacity is the term used in physics- which is its  ability to electrically bind positively charged ions (heavy metals,  radio-isotopes, etc) whilst trading out (in exchange) beneficial cations like  potassium or calcium.
oil in the seas, nuclear fallout spreading across the globe, shortages of food, genetic and degenerative disease, antibiotic resistant infectious agents, mass extinctions, epidemic infertility, genetic modification, electro-smog, etc, ad infinitum.
join me on my upcoming radio show with patrick timpone on march  29th at 10 am est.
we are what we eat, and what  we eat runs the show.
the drinks served are scrumptious healing blends of herbs and superfoods, to help heal and optimize any individuals condition.
our work is  the distillation of years of study and practice, and we could be celebrating  the diversity that this has created.
~d nov 08, 2010 | current projects, wild food & water, written word | view  comments from alcohol to alchemy: the lore, craft, and nutrition of mead a mead workshop with daniel vitalis and jim lindenschmidt i am very excited to be co-hosting this up-coming autumn workshop  with my good friend and mead-mentor, jim lindenschmidt ofbardic brews and the  sweet peas podcast.
arthur writes from a place of profound understanding of the nutritional and medicinal actions of wild foods, as well as the important uses that these 95 plants held for the native people of this continent (and still do for the “neo-aboriginal” today).
shailene, from all of us, thank you for all that you are doing!
this past autumn was a really exciting time for my team and i, with so many of our projects coming to fruition and our message ofrewilding, spring water, and indigenous nutrition spreading around our community and beyond, faster than we ever imagined.
this is a path of uniting stories.
with childlike enthusiasm, we have been texting back and forth each day to see how much sap the others trees have produced!
there has been a friendly rivalry going on, and a few of us decided to take it as far as we had to in order to bring the most attention to these dvd’s.
also, as a heads up, arthur and i will be leading two weekend workshops together this year in the north east, one in may called “ancestral plants” and another in september called “ancestral ignition”.
would you like to make your own toothpaste for self-dentistry and
i  truly believe that the generations alive today are uniquely positioned as the  gate keepers of an emerging world.
i am proud of the work that i do there, and of the  people that this business supports.
growing in size, staring at our hands, finding our feet, rubbing our eyeballs, mind boggled – immersed, surrounded, and face to face with an overwhelming presence perceived, at times, as threatening.
now that i am moving away from “novelty foraging” toward a subsistence that includes wild foods, i am acutely aware of this nutritional crux.
given the drive for new plant medicines and the continual search for a new herb-of-the-day that will simulate excitement in the general populace (e.g. rhodiola, maca), it is astonishing that pine has been unrecognized for so long.
while i have also been  fermenting honey with some success (a beverage called mead), i wanted to brew  something with a milder effect (mead has the alcohol content of wine, upwards  of 16 % or more) that could be done with very little labor or input, just the  way our ancestors had done it.
this will be a robust and fully developed workshop covering hundreds of aspects of personal health sovereignty, loaded with tips, techniques, and strategies for those of us who are ushering in the new paradigm on earth.
earlier in the year i had the culturally enriching experience of imbibing some of the traditional fermented beverages of south america, specificallychicha (from maize) and masatao (fromcassava), both traditional ferments of the people of peru.
so it provides certain answers in the form of nourishment – literally;  “bringing (you) up, raising, fostering, supporting, preserving”.
so, what’s the message here?
want to see what a truly clean upper respiratory tract feels like?
this video is a quick peek into my spring cleansing strategy which is most  welcomed after a lengthy season of living indoors.
on this interview, daniel will be speaking about his latest research into thereclassification of modern humans as a new subspecies.
i get so excited every time it snows here, and though some people find it challenging to live through this kind of cold and dark, i must say that even more than loving it, i am fascinated by it.
the surthrivalist differs from the survivalist in that they operate from a place of love and recognition of the inherent bounty of the natural world.
come learn how this april!
the few hours that followed are little more than a blur, and if it wasn’t for the record kept in the footage i am about to share with you, i would’t have believed that it even happened.
this plant, once planted ornamentally is now southern florida’s
“what ayahuasca teaches is that right now, at every moment, we already live in the magic forest.”
a path of connectivity.
this is exciting to me, because i am a huge advocate for maximizing the amount of time we spend outdoors, with our barefeet connected to the ground.
as  though i was, or have been, turning myself into some kind of garden.
until then, please know that your readership is appreciated.
this quiet, ripping  whorl, where time is in question, and of its essence.
also, as a heads up, arthur and i will be leading two weekend workshops  together this year in the north east, one in may called “ancestral  plants” and another in september called “ancestral ignition”.
many of you are already planning on being there, and those who would like  to join canget your tickets here.
thanks for taking a moment in your day to read this.
lactobacillus takes up residence in our small intestine, creating a kind of probiotic bio-shield in the gut, where it aggressively out-competes other dys-biotic organisms that can cause us to fall ill.
the second is a documentary called trinity, and it shows with nothing less than truly epic footage, the history of these tests.
since i received my first copy (just a couple of weeks ago on the winter  solstice) i haven’t been able to put it down.
and thus far, for most of us throughout mankind’s short history  on this planet, that effort has not been made.
we invoke separation, like children covering their ears – convinced it’s not happening.
~daniel feb 02, 2011 | current projects, wild food & water | view comments david wolfe, matt monarch, and daniel vitalis make a smoothie spoof!
as for the technique and specifics, i will let this video explain  the rest.
i can’t wait to see what everyone brings to the stage!
what a wonderful feeling to know that this winter i will be eating more of  my calories from foods that were sustainably harvested from my local landscape.
we will also be  talking about footwear, and why i am such a fan of five-toed shoes!
when this clay or zeolite consumption is combined with sauna therapy (this dual approach is the subject ofmy last video), we arrive at a very effective life-long detoxification strategy that really works, and is easy to implement.
all of the trip details are available here!
those who remain will have to be more than survivors, they will be  surthrivalists.
if you would like to deepen your training,  move further down this path, develop skills that can protect and nourish you  and the generations to come, please consider joining usmay 20th-22nd in the  berkshire mountains.
also, i will be at the longevity now conference in april (1st-3rd), and will be making tickets for the upcoming conference available soon… so… stay tuned, i might just be forced to top this last video!
also, this is an excellent resource for herbalists or those interested in herbal medicine, as each plants pharmacology and mode of action are broken down in a very explicit and comprehensible way.
i am also including here the two links that i mention in the video.
when this clay or zeolite consumption is combined with sauna therapy  (this dual approach is the subject ofmy last video), we arrive at a very  effective life-long detoxification strategy that really works, and is easy to  implement.
my girlfriend ali, my operations manager and brother kaleb, and my best  friend and business partner leighlon and i then spent several hours posting  this video to everyone we could think of in our social networks.
there are only 12 premium seats available, so hurry!
with this home-made clay or zeolite toothpaste, the goal is  indeed to swallow it, moving it into the intestine where it can go to work  mopping up industrial and nuclear debris that has bioaccumulated in our tissues.
more than any other medicinal  mushroom, this has been my number one herbal/fungal ally.
storing vegetables for the winter is a critical skill, and lacto-fermentation has some advantages that are hard to beat.
i think the universe has all the secrets of the universe.
they were not viewed as guilt laden pleasures or sources of immoral behavior and debauchery, but rather as sacred and vitally health supportive.
oh, and one other thing, a message to the haters… i am making a joke about the sales of this dvd for this reason alone.
however, the heart of this guidance was clear: ayahuasca, once  drank, prefers to live in, and works better with; clean bodies.
i have a few more days of maple sap harvesting before heading of to los  angeles for the longevity now conference, april 1st
it is easy to do, and requires very little work or know how.
~daniel jan 12, 2011 | current projects, interviews, wild food & water | view  comments join me in costa rica march 13th – 20th!
i put this up to demonstrate how simple it is to produce your own wild  nettle root tincture for use as an herbal medicine.
i think it is an inspired and poignant summation of the plant medicine path, and especially thesynthesis of food, medicine, and the realm of entheogenic plants in the human ecological niche.
the toxic cations are then transported out of our  bodies, along with the zeolite powder in our bowel movement.
cider is  usually defined as having an alcohol content of 2 – 8.5 % or higher,  though my experience is that it tastes great and is incredibly refreshing even  during initial fermentation when the alcohol content is negligible like that of kombucha.
thousands of chinese herbs have entered the western pharmacopoeia; the  earliest and best known is perhaps ginseng.
imagine what it takes to make videos, write books, travel  the world getting in front of hundreds and thousands of people to share a  message of hope and healing in a world so full of suffering and destruction.
from yet another direction, the “higher reflection” in a sense themother of raw, living diets, can be seen in the traditions and disciplines ofplant dietas.
more than ever before, every choice we make, each and every action we take is leading us onward to thrive or downward to our own demise.
it has been many years since i have seen a dentist (i was 12 the last time i can remember having an appointment with one), and as it is with so many aspects of living, i have found it far more rewarding to take care of myself, rather than turning my health over to others.
and our  arrogance in trying to continually conquer the universe rather than communicate  with it, has kept us from being taught those secrets.
how i arrived at this… as i began experimenting with tissue detoxification using zeolites and  clay, it dawned on me that these, when rendered into a fine flour-like powder,  have just the right amount of abrasiveness to take the place of the toothpaste
to those who have supported us all these years, thank you.
for instance, methods  for removing radioactive isotopes from our body fat, muscles and bones,  pcb’s and other industrial chemicals from our lipid stores, and keeping  genetically modified bio-pollutants out of our bodies will become as common  place as removing plaque from your teeth or dirt from beneath your fingernails.
the goal is to create a kind of invincible health that allows us to thrive in this mad, mad, world!
we invoke separation, like children  covering their ears – convinced it’s not happening.
~daniel nov 18, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water |  view comments wild foods and medicines!
further, pollan suggests, in his “plants-eye view” ted talk, that “looking at the world from other species’ points of view is a cure for the disease of human self-importance.”
survival is bare minimum, surthrival is abundant, and even opulent.
despite this, and even because of it, nettle has been used as food and medicine by many cultures and is an important species for those of us who practice foraging, herbalism, or primitive outdoor skills.
~d oct 28, 2010 | current projects | view comments i am honored and excited to share that i will be speaking at the upcoming longevity now conference!
the photos are very clear and  the descriptions have been written by someone who has actually used the plants  to the ends described therein (believe me, this is not the norm).
i’m talking about the spirit of the  creek, the bricks in your house, the hundreds of spirits roaming your kitchen.
all three of us are so focused on creating the life that we desire, each of us so good at what we do, that we have all become characters as archetypical as those found in the pages of a comic book.
in contrast to many wild foraged plants, wild rice requires a more considerable amount of know how and equipment to locate, access, harvest, and process, so to show this in its entirety is simply outside the scope of a blog post.
daniel will be sharing tips on the kinds of things a person  can do to rewild themselves and what it could mean to our health.
that is all changing for me now that i have learned to forage a few key  items, perhaps the greatest and most important, of which is wild rice.
we add to that the “probiotic” organism (these are healthy, symbiotic micro-organisms) that will be performing the fermentation (here it will be lactobacillus).
aside from the vegetables that keep in my cellar (onions, squashes, garlic) and the vegetables i have frozen (wild fiddle heads, japanese knotweed) lacto-ferments are my main source of “living” vegetation.
food, water, air, and sunlight, are the critical elements for nourishing our bodies, and we will be covering these topics in depth.
the reason i share these videos and information is to demonstrate that the issues with radiation did not begin fukushima, or even with chernobyl, but with the “silent” nuclear war that has already happened on earth.
what if you knew someone hadn’t showered or bathed in months, years, or worse still, never at all… how would you feel about getting… um, close to them?
that is because this seminar has the worlds leading health authorities, all gathered in one place for a whole weekend, to share their unique knowledge around health and longevity.
more than ever before, every choice we make, each and every action we take  is leading us onward to thrive or downward to our own demise.
david the globetrotting shamanic mad scientist, matt the california beach boy turned south american land owner, me the elven borreal forest primitive locavore.
we are what we eat, and what we eat runs the show.
now that i am just weeks away from surthrival’s launch of its new  pine pollen extracts, i wanted to share a video that is yet one more piece of  my natural hormone maintnance strategy.
there are those online whodo take this far too seriously and are constantly leveling accusations, and cruel and harsh words against us.
i have just  finished preparing my presentation, called “habitat, your guide to  intentional lifestyle design” which will focus on specific strategies for  more than just vigorous health, but epi-genetic wealth.
thanks to all of you who have supported us!
each presenter brings to us their unique skillset and education around optimal health and longevity.
in fact, aspects of it will have to be  implemented if we are to continue to inhabit this world.
i certainly wasn’t, growing  up in the 1980’s american dream.
through this quest i have become enamoured by cider, which is the proper  name for the fermented alcoholic draught made from the fresh pressed juice from  apples.
we will be covering a very comprehensive lifestyle approach that can – and i believe will – give one the confidence to step into the world each day with a sense of abundant growth, rather and fear and uncertainty.
she was  so kind as to mention my name and the work i have been doing the last several  years!
wild rice however, is a complex carbohydrate (macro-nutrient), and unlike the mono-cropped and refined carbohydrates of the average american diet, is a rich whole food grain loaded with vitamins and minerals (micronutrients) as well.
from “organic” store-bought toothpaste brands, to tooth soaps and powders, and even aboriginal “chew sticks” – nothing has been the right fit for my self-dentistry needs.
i am very excited about both of these classes, and will be posting the details shortly.
while i know it is an ambitious goal, it is my personal desire to hunt and gather.
i encourage you to give it a try, and to get out into your local ecosystem  to commune with your landscape.
most americans are deficient in micronutrients even to the rda standard (recommended daily allowances of the u.s. national academy of sciences) which is surprisingly low when compared against the nutrient intakes of so called “primitive peoples”.
essentially, plants can do whatever they want with humans, and with  near-absolute impunity.
now  conference last april is now available for purchase in dvd format, in an 18-dvd  set which includes the lectures from each of the other health educators who  spoke at the conference!
and our arrogance in trying to continually conquer the universe rather than communicate with it, has kept us from being taught those secrets.
hour after hour i burned to know and meet the species who’s berry drupes splatter painted pink the otherwise indistinguishable wall of sub-tropic greenery that lined the highway 75.
~daniel ps, check out this podcast i recently did where we discuss the history of grains and agriculture, as well as some must have information on making the grains you use a safe and healthy food!
i think that foragers of all skill level  and in a variety of eco-ranges will benefit from this work.
they were not viewed as guilt laden  pleasures or sources of immoral behavior and debauchery, but rather as  sacred and vitally health supportive.
zizania palustris is an aquatic grain occurring  widely throughout the eastern united states (like maine where i live) and  canada.
please come visit me and the surthrival team, and support this important east coast event!
aside from the occasional whole foods splurge, i don’t suspect i  will be eating very many fresh green vegetables until the wild spring shoots  emerge after the thaw.
my last  few videos have been focused on sharing some sovereign self-healthcare  strategies that i have been developing and employing for some time now.
go ahead and leave  a comment below, and please…  don’t be shy dec 21, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments rewilding: tips & tricks for strengthening our epigenetic health tune into daniel’s next interview on the one radio network on november 10th called “rewilding, tips &  tricks for strengthening our epigenetic health”!
plant-based edible living sculpture with vibrant living beings  who in return sculpt you.
this current video is a 6 part dental health and maintenance strategy that  has replaced the role of dentistry in my life.
actually, it is common to nearly all mammals, and in particular to broad ranging herbivores.
it is the wild food apprenticeship you have been  waiting for!
very disturbing, but strangely entrancing…
-steve beyer dig around a bit, and you might observe the root of our crisis as being humankind’s long, drunken lust for separation – mind/body, human/nature, food/medicine, physical/spiritual.
evidence for this has been found in archeological sites that predated our current human form, and anthropological surveys have found that it lives on in societies around the world today.
this online workshop will delve deeply into human  domestication and the affects of an alkaloid-poor diet.
there is a globulin in human blood calledsex hormone binding globulin (shbg) which binds to testosterone, rendering it unavailable to the our cells.
~daniel feb 02, 2011 | current projects, wild food & water | view comments this week has been full of just that kind of laughter!
below is a link to one of the best books i  have read on the subject.
this video comes on the heels of the last video we released, which  details how to make the toothpaste that is used in this dental care strategy.
this, if you have time, is  a must see!
i truly believe that the generations alive today are uniquely positioned as the gate keepers of an emerging world.
i certainly wasn’t, growing up in the 1980’s american dream.
where the consensus  amongst the conscious is that we are indeed all one, weare nature,  there is no separation, and it’s all changing dramatically.
it is also an excellentblended drink or soup base.
click here to see a 15 minute  clip of the my main lecture from the event, titled “habitat, living the  life of our biological design” which i feel came out wonderfully!
ok, so forgive me here, but i am going to interject a few definitions and a  quick mathmatical formula.
-daniel vitalis visionary nutrition.
if this wasn’t enough, phyto-chemicals in nettle root further work to  prevent benign prostate hyperplasia (bph) by stopping the binding of dht to the  prostate membrane.
is there an app for that yet?
from creating healthy habitat  within your own home, to protecting yourself from the radioactive fallout that  is, even now, blanketing the northern hemisphere.
there is so much i am excited to share, from creating and implementing a healthy and well developed natural diet, to finding the cleanest and purest water available to keep your body hydrated.
-daniel vitalis ~ visionary nutrition.
i will be teaming up again with rawflora this year for a one time only costa rican adventure, and have a limited amount of space available for those who want to have a special experience at the tail end of this year’s winter!
this will be a robust  and fully developed workshop covering hundreds of aspects of personal health  sovereignty, loaded with tips, techniques, and strategies for those of us who  are ushering in the new paradigm on earth.
in particular i am referring to zeolites ability to perform cation exchange - cec or cation exchange capacity is the term used in physics- which is its ability to electrically bind positively charged ions (heavy metals, radio-isotopes, etc) whilst trading out (in exchange) beneficial cations like potassium or calcium.
it only took a few moments of internet research to discover the identity of this wildly successful invasive.
be sure to read  on.
there will be just one tour, and space is extremely limited, so please contact us immediately at info@rawflora.com to reserve your space!
if you would  like to see the rest of thetalk, as well as those presented by the rest of the  longevity now speakers, it is available here.
the results are his latest book which you can find here.
~daniel nov 24, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments important new chaga foraging update!!!
and once they can do that they can interact with those spirits.
also, i feel the  need to point out the obvious here: people buy products from myself or my  colleagues because we carry extremely good products, products that help people.
i have had the opportuntiy to forage wild foods for a few years now, with each season yielding greater and greater amounts of food.
to say that i am grateful would hardly do justice to this exuberant emotion.
honestly, i feel sorry for people like that, people who are too closed  down in their hearts to display the lightness of being that initiates human  bonding.
alcohol consumption goes further into antiquity than can be accounted for, in other words it is part of the human story.
aug 19, 2010 | current projects, written word | view comments let's connect!
at the urban farm fermentory 200 anderson st. – bay 4 portland, me 04101
click the banner below  to tune in or listen to the recorded version!
what if you knew someone hadn’t showered or  bathed in months, years, or worse still, never at all…  how would  you feel about getting… um, close to them?
if this post (or any other) has inspired you, please leave a comment below!
i believe in us, i believe in our ability as a species to make it through  even the most challenging times.
click the banner below to tune in or listen to the recorded version!
-morgan brent all plants are psychoactive.
the goal is to create a kind of invincible health that allows us to  thrive in this mad, mad, world!
if you are reading this, i assume you are part of the change that is coming, and i commend you.
and one of my favorites, fresh water coconuts to drink all day long!
the first is an amazing visualization that shows all of the nuclear detonations  that have happened on earth since 1946.
in other words, those who can keep their bodies clean and detoxified, nourished and healthy, no matter what the level of contamination.
we all require training and education in order  to successfully navigate a transitioning world that sometimes seems -strangely-  designed to corrupt our health, our values, and even our will.
to compliment and expand on my video, i have also included a video with  botanist arthur haines detailing how he taps his maples, and prepares his maple  syrup.
i get so excited every time it  snows here, and though some people find it challenging to live through this  kind of cold and dark, i must say that even more than loving it,  i am  fascinated by it.
quick question:  what is  the most exotic thing you have ever put in a neti pot?
there is a long and rich historical record of its harvest by  native peoples of this continent and is to this day still harvested by existing  native populations of north america, and in particular the great lakes region.
for the last couple of weeks myself and several good friends and great acquaintances have been working together diligently to get the word out about the 16 dvd set that was filmed last september at the longevity now conference in costa mesa, ca.
further, pollan suggests, in  his “plants-eye view” ted talk, that “looking at the world  from other species’ points of view is a cure for the disease of human  self-importance.”
in fact, learning to properly construct and burn a fire has meant far more to me than just having another survival skill.
thanks  to all of you who have supported us!
each speaker is very different from the others, and holds a piece of information that could be the piece that you are looking for.
berry we all have seen in the high end peppercorn blends and fancy see-through  peppermills.
of course the beverages fermented by native peoples and by our traditional cultural forebearers were much healthier and nutritionally viable than those of today, created with local ingredients and wild yeasts, and were not filtered and pasturized like the ones that most of us were raised around.
they are so  obsessed, and take it allso seriously that they have committed their  lives to displaying hatred and spewing vitriol, claiming that their way, their  method, their diet, is the only viable truth.
if you are woman reading this pay close attention.
thats all for now, though i eagerly await your comments, so please let me  know what you would like to see future videos on!
a student-teacher  relationship emerges as one sits with a plant, drinking it exclusively over a  period of time.
please take a few minutes to check out the “rewild yourself” skills event that i am hosting in maine in the late summer of 2012!
we are now awakening from the last few decades of over-fed / under-nourished slumber and collectively reclaiming our sovereign health!
there are of course wonderful uses for chaga with its bark on as well, particularly as an anti-neoplastic medicine.
people are constantly asking me to recommend a book on the subject, and there just haven’t been many that i have found particularly helpful.
and how delicious they might be!”
here is a review from the journal of clinical epidemiology showing the effects of alcohol on life span!
this means that as a forager i am still largely  dependent on my local agricultural system to provide me with calories that i  need to live out my daily life.
i think of it like this, imagine that david wolfe, matt monarch, and i all walked into a restraunt together (ok, what restraunt would that be?
many of you are already planning on being there, and those who would like to join canget your tickets here.
if you would like to deepen your training, move further down this path, develop skills that can protect and nourish you and the generations to come, please consider joining usmay 20th-22nd in the berkshire mountains.
~daniel mar 20, 2012 | audio podcasts, current projects, featured videos, interviews ,wild food & water, written word | view comments pine pollen book now available!
also, this is  an excellent resource for herbalists or those interested in herbal medicine, as  each plants pharmacology and mode of action are broken down in a very explicit  and comprehensible way.
for those who don’t know, chaga is a fungal sclerotium with  notable anti-cancer  terpines (such as betulinic acid) and immune system  modulating sugars (called beta glucans).
also, i want to let you know that though this book was written for plants of the north east, dozens of the plants here will be found throughout north america, and even beyond.
significantly, it’s acleanse – of body, of  mind – and by extension, environment.
jan 05, 2011 | current projects | view comments sauerkraut fermentation at home
whats more, the  flowing sap of the maple tree is the first wild food to emerge after a long and  cold snow covered new england winter.
from creating healthy habitat within your own home, to protecting yourself from the radioactive fallout that is, even now, blanketing the northern hemisphere.
~d food medicine life by morgan maher
it inhabits the shallow waters of lakes, ponds, and slow moving  rivers.
in full honesty, i don’t believe that most of – or even many of – the human beings alive today will carry forth their genetic material into the future.
the primary fermentative organism present in these kinds of preserves is lactobacillus acidophilus (who’s name means “acid loving milk bacteria”) one of our bodies primary microbial symbionts.
the roll of shamanic knowledge for us westerners introduced to those spirits is to spread that knowledge, make communication easier.
plants, and plant-time, are like  crop circles (which of course are made of plants in most cases) – like  magic, they appear, leave traces, clues, fruit, messages.
gorman apr 06, 2012 | audio podcasts, current projects, interviews, wild food  & water, written word | view comments watch hungry for change for free!
i am really excited to announce the release of the new book   “pine pollen, ancient medicine for a new millennium”,  by  stephen harrod buhner.
here is a little bit more information on the event, as well as the kripalu center itself.
for those of you who are interested in going deeper, i would highly recommend an e-book by my good friend nadine artemis called “successful self-dentistry, how to avoid the dentist without ignoring your teeth”.
for us to continue, for us to clean up the mess we have  collectively made, we will have to, as a species, choose to walk down a new  path.
invite the forces of nature, say an orange or a mushroom, and with the right kind of eyes – grow further infused with infinite ecologies of everlasting spirits.
i put this up to demonstrate how simple it is to produce your own wild nettle root tincture for use as an herbal medicine.
something i could practice daily as  a way to learn from, and build relations with numerous “common”  plants like kale, chard, chia, blueberries, tomatoes, pears, for example.
we create worlds, as worlds creates us.
this online workshop will delve deeply into human domestication and the affects of an alkaloid-poor diet.
i needed something fresh, something bold, something that would send ripples  coursing throughout the health-minded community…  i had an idea,  but would this be going to far?
i am so proud ofsurthrival as a project, as a company, and as a team!
the plants led me out of concrete jungles, cured any concrete ideologies and crumbling health i might carry – hold my gaze and engage my commitment to unfolding endeavors of evolutionary advantage – wild foods, living water, permaculture, forest gardening, medicinal mushrooms, herbalism, synaesthesia…
simply  follow the steps in the video below, and in a couple of weeks you will have  your first batch ready to eat!
i want to extend a big thanks to the longevity now conference for all they have done to make this happen.
i want to emphasize, the synbiotic is a new  food, not the sum of the original parts, this is why sauerkraut is not  “cabbage”, and wine is not “grape juice”.
as you can probably tell, i am an avid “foodie” so i have made sure there will be an abundance of fresh local fruits and vegetables, wild fish and seafood, as well as local goat milk and cheese!
this video is for all of you who celebrate being grown-ups, and are unafraid to raise yourselves up and out of the near ubiquitousneoteny that is now standard in the epi-genome in our “modernized” population.
also, on another note, my opening evening talk at the longevity
however, the heart of this guidance was clear: ayahuasca, once drank, prefers to live in, and works better with; clean bodies.
i promise a profound and moving experience in this workshop.
branches bowed under the weight of pinkish-red berries as i sped across the  highway on a recent trip to southern florida last december.
this video is about the strategies that i have been employing since the japan disaster earlier this year.
the apple juice i have worked with begins to ferment almost immediately after it reaches room temperature, and in truth gets better each and every day that it sits.
of course today it is nearly the opposite, where most of the (over)  developed world has calorie rich diet composed of overly processed and refined  food – think white sugar, white flour, high fructose corn syrup, etc  – that is deeply lacking in micro-nutrition.
people choose to purchase these products because they add value to their lives and health, and because they feel good about putting their money back into the economic networks that support what they believe in.
but wait…  theres more!
david the globetrotting shamanic mad scientist, matt the california beach  boy turned south american land owner, me the elven borreal forest primitive  locavore.
each day is  packed with truly exciting adventures, from visits to cacao plantations to  white water rafting down a deep jungle river, from a forest canopy eco  adventure to visits with the local shaman for healing jungle herbs.
this is a huge deal considering the amount of knowledge, connections, goodies, and community you will leave with after the weekend!click
the concept of “rewilding” is about recreating or replicating some of our natural conditions to make ushealthier and more robust .
finally curiosity got  the better of me, and i decided to do what any avid forager would –   i  pulled over to have a taste.
despite this, and even because of it, nettle has been used as food and  medicine by many cultures and is an important species for those of us who  practice foraging, herbalism, or primitive outdoor skills.
there will also be a 90-minute panel, where the audience members can ask us all of their burning question!
if you know anyone who might be interested in these events, please share  this post with them!
in fact, when someone neglects this important bit of personal cleanliness, the rest of us can be easily turned off.
three full days of major downloads of advanced information is priced at a mere$297!
click here to learn more about this upcoming online event.
recently, she also appeared on the ellen degeneres show carrying a mason jar of spring water which she promptly shared with ellen!
~daniel jan 19, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, written word | view  comments new book now available!
i am really excited to announce the release of the new book “pine pollen, ancient medicine for a new millennium”, by stephen harrod buhner.
i really hope you make  the commitment to join us there!
that said, each of us faces innumerable challenges to our health everyday,  from the simple habituated patterns that have been passed on to us from the  generations past, to more complex issues like genetically modified foods and  radioactive fallout that have emerged more recently as a result of our rapidly  developing technologies.
i have a few more days of maple sap harvesting before heading of to los angeles for the longevity now conference, april 1st
- stephen harrod  buhner
here is what it means.
or that those who drink a moderate amount of ethanol live  longer than those who drink heavily or don’t drink at all?
keep  checking mycurrent events for more details, and i hope to meet you somewhere  out there soon!
a student-teacher relationship emerges as one sits with a plant, drinking it exclusively over a period of time.
it sort of turned into an informal contest, and i was  determined to win… it all started last week with my team and i brainstorming about how we  could get peoples attention.
i am expecting this to be a very intimate event, with lots of time for personal exchanges, questions and answers, and exploration of territory that isn’t always easy to cover in a one night talk.
zizania palustris is an aquatic grain occurring widely throughout the eastern united states (like maine where i live) and canada.
due to its status as florida’s floral-enemy-number-one, we can harvest its berries with a kind of impunity that is rarely experienced by the modern forager.
you can find all the details and register here.
i was going to back down.
and while this presents ecological issues in southern florida, it produces a tremendous surplus of wild food for the keenly aware forager.
she was so kind as to mention my name and the work i have been doing the last several years!
now speakers, it is available here.
and while this presents ecological issues in southern florida, it produces  a tremendous surplus of wild food for the keenly aware forager.
be it food or information – we become what we consume, and we produce from the inside out.
oct 20, 2011 | current projects, interviews, wild food & water | view  comments sovereign dental health, a 6 part strategy hello friends, welcome (or welcome back) and thanks again for stopping by.
please give us your feedback by leaving a comment below!
people were loving it, but the competition was swarming and before we knew what to do, several other videos popped up.
while i hadn’t had personal experience with this plant before, i do  have plenty of experience with the principles of wild food identification,  harvest, and processing, and each of these skills translate well from biome to  biome, from one eco-system to the next.
matt  monarch has ceaslessly brought more and more products to us at hisraw food world , and runs one of the tightest ships i have ever seen.
~daniel jan 09, 2012 | audio podcasts, current projects, featured videos, from the road, interviews, wild food & water | view comments how is your sinus hygiene?
through this quest i have become enamoured by cider, which is the proper name for the fermented alcoholic draught made from the fresh pressed juice from apples.
natural selection is a simple enough concept.
i know what your thinking,  shouldn’t i identify the plantbefore i taste it?
as each season goes by and my skills in this area increase, not only have i developed a strong sense of food security, my direct relationship to the earth as an abundant and loving provider continues to increases.
nettle root supports male health in a few different ways.
which has left us losing out on  so much we might have learned.
i want to emphasize, the synbiotic is a new food, not the sum of the original parts, this is why sauerkraut is not “cabbage”, and wine is not “grape juice”.
please keep in mind that this toothpaste, in addition to providing the  mild abrasive qualities we have become accustomed to in our commercially  available toothpaste preparations, is designed to pull toxic cations out of the  body, and to be an aid in our overall radio-protection strategy (protection  from radioactive isotopes).
it might not be easy, though that doesn’t mean it can’t be  exciting – and yes… maybe even fun.
as public speakers and figures, there is a tremendous amount of pressure  placed on us from all directions, as this is the nature of the work that we do.
you the reader may have encountered some of the harassing internet trolling that each of us has had to endure.
i don’t understand why there are people who are critical of me or anyone in my field for being a business person.
quick question: what is the most exotic thing you have ever put in a neti pot?
which has left us losing out on so much we might have learned.
we will also be talking about footwear, and why i am such a fan of five-toed shoes!
chemical and radiation exposure, emf’s, xeno-estrogens, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, and a host of other health pitfalls will also be addressed to ensure that each participant can protect and detoxify themselves from these safely and adequately.
the experience of harvesting the ingredients for the mead from my environment (honey, fruits, herbs, etc.)
people were  loving it, but the competition was swarming and before we knew what to do,  several other videos popped up.
i am proud to work with him.
i will be teaming up again with rawflora this year for a one time only  costa rican adventure, and have a limited amount of space available for those  who want to have a special experience at the tail end of this year’s  winter!
the class has been filling up rather quickly these last few weeks, and we are getting very excited for the spring foraging to begin!
lets explore the awakening, forge a path into the new paradigm  together, and let’s do it in a place as beautiful as this.
most of the wild plants that i have been learning to use are incredibly nutritious (as well as delicious) but a bit low in calories.
many wild  foraged plants are eaten like vegetables (stinging nettle come to  mind) but lack the energy density that we get from meats, grains, oils,  concentrated sugars.
though people may at time level criticisms against us, i ask that you  imagine this.
in the new orleans  “jungleland” – behind climates of chaos and the media  newsfeed, burnt cars and dead bodies are consumed by tall grass.
i believe some can, and whats more,  that some will.
greetings friends & welcome to 2012!
i  guess this is hypothetical).
those individuals who  are more adapted to a particular environment will be healthier and will produce  more offspring than those less suited to an environment.
i had met stephen at a workshop he gave in british columbia (here is an interview i did with him) and having become friends, asked if he would be willing to collaborate with myself and the surthrival team on a pine pollen herbal-monograph.
not only does lactobacillus acidophilus allow us to preserve and even increase the amount of nutrition in our vegetables, but it also aids in digestion and increases our immunity too!
those individuals who are more adapted to a particular environment will be healthier and will produce more offspring than those less suited to an environment.
after 14 years of using a neti pot on a regular, almost daily basis –  i must admit, i am amazed how overlooked this basic bit of personal hygiene is.
null null most of us were taught to spit our toothpaste out, which, given the host of less-than-beneficial ingredients (particularly fluoride) is pretty sound advice.
hand harvested, sundried,  fire parched, foot treaded, and wind winnowed wild rice is so soft and delicate  in flavor that it simply has to be tasted to be understood.
be sure to contact us soon, as the class size is very limited.
if you can’t make it to the event, but would like to watch the video stream, here isthe link where you can sign up to watch at home.
as always, we would love to hear from you, so please let us know what you  think of this recent post, video upload, and what you would like to see in the  future by commenting below.
i have now arrived at a strategy that is really working wonders for me, and i feel could really work for you too.
it does not mean we are  contending with one another, and certainly doesn’t affect our friendship  or support of eachother.
there are not many wild foods that taste particularly sweet here in new england, but maple syrup is certainly the exception.
most americans are  deficient in micronutrients even to the rda standard (recommended daily  allowances of the u.s. national academy of sciences) which is surprisingly low  when compared against the nutrient intakes of so called “primitive  peoples”.
having harvested several pounds of these beautiful pink peppercorns, they  are now dried and jarred, and have become a staple of my ever increasingly wild  food rich diet.
organisms native to the area where you are fermenting, or – as is the case with cabbage – are indigenous to the food itself.
keep rewilding, ~daniel mar 25, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments tampa bay was the site of another example of an urban forage, and this time with an exotic invasive that produces more food than i could ever hope to harvest.
“what ayahuasca teaches is that right now, at every moment, we  already live in the magic forest.”
in other words, once you have tried it and felt what clean and clear sinus cavities feel like, you won’t want to go back.
“the fiction that supports the culture-nature separation is rapidly failing under the weight of its own inconsistencies.
i really believe there is such a lifestyle, and living it is so much more exciting and rewarding than the life that most of us were born to.
this film is a beautiful  depiction of how that is happening.
please consider joining me there next month.
our ability to generate and maintain fire is a powerful thing indeed, so it is our intention to pass on not just the skill, but the  ethics of stewardship as well.
i wanted to share an article by my good  friendmorgan maher, the host of the my upcoming online workshop on  “visionary nutrition”.
what we  place inside ourselves, transforms us.
keep rewilding, mar 25, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments urban foraging florida!
i have a good sense of the tastes of poisons, and  this strategy has rarely failed me ( i will spare you the tale of the time i  tried a taste of “jack-in-the-pulpit”.
and once they can do that  they can interact with those spirits.
if plants – specifically teacher plants – convey anything, it is that they have the upper hand, the higher branch.
~ “i think that once a person is aware of the life in everything, they can begin to access the spirit of everything.
evidence for this has been found in archeological sites that  predated our current human form, and anthropological surveys have found that it  lives on in societies around the world today.
daniel will be sharing tips on the kinds of things a person can do to rewild themselves and what it could mean to our health.
check out the video interview below to learn more about the book, and click  here to get your copy now!
though people may at time level criticisms against us, i ask that you imagine this.
the apple juice i have worked with begins to ferment almost immediately  after it reaches room temperature, and in truth gets better each and every day  that it sits.
one of those dvd’s is dedicated to the talks that i  gave at the conference, and is the information that is most on my heart and  mind now.
it seems to be some kind of natural (or perhaps unnatural) selection.
the  results are his latest book which you can find here.
in fact, it seems to me that the only humans who will be  able to inhabit this planet soon will be those who have developed and  implemented strategies to thrive in this brave new polluted planetary ecology.
i had the privilege of both publishing this book as well as writing the foreword, and am very excited to see it added to the existing herbal literature.
i think that foragers of all skill level and in a variety of eco-ranges will benefit from this work.
there has been a friendly rivalry going on, and a few of us decided to  take it as far as we had to in order to bring the most attention to these  dvd’s.
i’m talking about the spirit of the creek, the bricks in your house, the hundreds of spirits roaming your kitchen.
~daniel apr 21, 2011 | current projects, written word | view comments ok, so of course maine hasn’t got any coconuts, but we do have something that tastes just as good – maybe better – and is just as nutritious.
if you don’t know shailene’s work, check out her latest film, the descendants, where she co-stars alongside george clooney.
please take a few minutes to check out the “rewild  yourself” skills event that i am hosting in maine in  the late summer of 2012!
there is so much i am excited to share, from creating and implementing a  healthy and well developed natural diet, to finding the cleanest and purest  water available to keep your body hydrated.
this video post is about peeling chaga, which is its traditional preparation method in siberia (it is from their folk medicine that we have learned of chaga).
with this in mind, i set forth exploring  a raw food diet – with sharp eyes and a healthy aversion to dogma and  definitions.
each speaker is very different from the others, and holds  a piece of information that could be the piece that you are looking for.
he or she has the ability to  witness events like those that recently struck japan, and while maintaining a  sense of empathy and compassion, takes the necessary steps to protect  themselves, their health, and that of those they love.
daily comm-union, even telepathy, most often one-way, where a  plant invited into the human body as food or medicine can “see what you  mean”.
being able to laugh at yourself!
this deserves to be laughed at  sometimes…  its funny.
whats the world’s best kept health secret???
while i get to meet so many of you out on the road when i am teaching around the world, this is our chance to spend a full week together, exploring the wonders of this beautiful planet!
best of all, you can swallow this toothpaste, which yields all of the  amazing health benefits of these detoxifying earth compounds.
what if there was a lifestyle that protected your health, increased your  ability to express your personal potential, kept your body clear of industrial,  agricultural, radioactive and genetic pollution, protected your fertility, your  stamina, your libido, and increased your will and desire to care for all of  life?
a sentiment reinforced in a recent new york times magazine article describing the plant take-over of new orleans’ lower ninth ward, where “for six and a half years, the neighborhood has undergone a reverse colonization — nature reclaiming civilization.”
it is the wild food apprenticeship you have been waiting for!
this is the life affirming new year resolution trip you have been quietly desiring, and this is your chance to make it a reality!
i am proud to work  with him.
you are  appreciated!
make no mistake, we stand before the greatest evolutionary event our  species has ever known.
i really hope you make the commitment to join us there!
food, water, air, and sunlight, are the critical elements for nourishing  our bodies, and we will be covering these topics in depth.
the first is an amazing visualization that shows all of the nuclear detonations that have happened on earth since 1946.
finally curiosity got the better of me, and i decided to do what any avid forager would – i pulled over to have a taste.
it has already become one of my most valued  herbal references.
join me on my upcoming radio show with patrick timpone on march 29th at 10 am est.
i am home in maine, and gearing up for the headlong plunge into the frigid depths of another new england winter!
my company surthrival recently started carrying what we feel are the most beautiful and durable ceramic neti pots available anywhere, andyou can get one for yourself right here on our newly designed website (we are pretty excited about this)!
the neti pot gives us the ability to clean our upper respiratory tract, in much the same way that a toothbrush cleans our mouth or a shower washes our skin, before these particles can accumulate or be drawn deeper.
for years i used this fungus without peeling it, which  yeilded wonderful results, but now that i have included the traditional  preperation method, it would be difficult to depart from.
many of us already have, and are.
my company,surthrival, is my contribution to peoples  health and healing and is my way of operating economically in a world that  demands this of me.
this doesn’t refer to behaving wildly, or   giving up your standards of personal conduct, rather it means “shed  your domesticator“!
here is another video from my archive showing how to identify and harvest chaga if you are interested in trying this yourself.
imagine what it takes to make videos, write books, travel the world getting in front of hundreds and thousands of people to share a message of hope and healing in a world so full of suffering and destruction.
it was our friends and colleagues trying to  out-do us (special thanks tojason wrobel and ron obadia) with videos of their  own!
with childlike enthusiasm, we have been texting back and forth  each day to see how much sap the others trees have produced!
simultaneously, it is these elements whichunite our species, and always have.
the world and its spirits don’t really care if we do, for the most part.
watching the season change, feeling the solar low just before we emerge into the spring, seeing the tracks of the animals who move like ghosts through this icy, crystalline landscape, all of this brings out the wonder of a child in me!
in the second half of the video  i’ve included a recipe that i have been making with fresh maple water,  chaga, and a bit of cream.
lacto-fermentation, the kind of vegetable fermentation that produces foods  like sauerkraut (as well as kimchee and brined pickles), preserves our food in  lactic acid, and was one of the dominant preservation techniques used by our  ancestors before sugar and preservatives became the norm.
this blog is in no way supporting reckless or irreverent use  of ethanol.
they are a group of “elixircraft masters “, for sure!
in closing, i want to say this.
thats not hype, i have literally been taking it everywhere.
i needed to do something out of the  ordinary, something bold and hilarious.
the video that accompanies this  blog post is a two part strategy breaking down how you can inexpensively and  easily begin protecting yourself from the long-lived radio isotopes, which have  now become a regular part of our habitat.
let me explain… this week has been full of just that kind of laughter!
~daniel apr 21, 2011 | current projects, written word | view comments coconut water in maine???
i think it is an inspired and poignant  summation of the plant medicine path, and especially thesynthesis of food, medicine, and the realm of entheogenic plants in the human ecological niche.
was what i was about to do; was i crossing the boundary?
p.p.s.  i understand the many detrimental effects that alcoholism and  alcohol related accidents have had on us as individuals and as a civilization.
for me, lacto-ferments like sauerkraut are one of my primary ways of  preserving and consuming local vegetables through out the long maine winters.
perhaps you have bought  fresh apple juice from a local orchard before and had it begin to ferment on  you!
the  exotic sweet and spicy aromatic flavor of these brittle pink berries was well  worth the risk, and i was certain i was on the trail of a new wild food ally.
it is quickly claiming more and more habitat for itself, displacing native species from their long held habitat.
the businesses that each of us run are beautiful, thriving, life promoting  operations and each of them is working to support the vision that each of us  share for the world.
the newly emerging scientific field of “epigenetics” is rapidly confirming the obvious fact, our habitat and lifestyle choices, from what we eat and breath to what we wear and think not only impacts our health but actually influences our gene expression!
these dvd’s are not for the dogmatic; they are for the open minded  and adaptable!
we are also excited to have a booth in the exhibition area for my company, surthrival, all weekend long at the event!
into  which, ayahuasca digs deep, purging junk, transforming thoughts, composting  things, creating soil from soul, turning the stomach into a womb, encouraging  conditions right, good, and fertile – so it can root, grow, and flower.
i hope this motivates you to get out and harvest some food or medicine for  yourself.
this workshop is being called “the masters workshop”, and it will be a comprehensive lecture between myself, david wolfe, and truth caulkins where we will go in depth about elixircrafting, the art of tonic alchemy, the secrets to abundant health, complete cell rejuvenation, and longevity.
as for the technique and specifics, i will let this video explain the rest.
while the aerial parts of the plant (the parts that grow above the ground)  are most commonly eaten as a pot herb (cooked) or made into infusions (teas),  it is the roots from which we can extract its potent androgenic substances.
the longevity now conference dvd’s are amazing.
the newly emerging scientific  field of “epigenetics” is rapidly confirming the obvious fact, our  habitat and lifestyle choices, from what we eat and breath to what we wear and  think not only impacts our health but actually influences our gene expression!
trees will be here long after we’re gone, and so will stones  and bricks and clouds and the moon.
i believe we are standing on the edge of a truly profound event horizon,  one that holds within its grasp the seed of the greatest human evolutionary  renaissance since our species first emerged into the world some 200,000 years  ago.
three days gives us time to deeply explore the lifestyle that is the theme of this workshop.
it is becoming obvious that what we do to nature we do to ourselves, what we do to ourselves we do to nature.”
and even though it is winter here, i have been studying up on the plants i want to learn in the next growing season, as well as using the calendar in the back to determine when i will be harvesting the key plants i intend to use throughout the year of 2011!
we are constantly working to serve you better!
honestly, i feel sorry for people like that, people who are too closed down in their hearts to display the lightness of being that initiates human bonding.
you will gain tremendous knowledge and be supporting a wonderful and important cause.
there is a  globulin in human blood calledsex hormone binding globulin (shbg) which binds  to testosterone, rendering it unavailable to the our cells.
stephen, in addition to being a prolific writer on herbal  craft and lore, is a poet and word-smith par excellence.
it has been many years  since i have seen a dentist (i was 12 the last time i can remember having an  appointment with one), and as it is with so many aspects of living, i have  found it far more rewarding to take care of myself, rather than turning my  health over to others.
here is a recent interview with her in black book magazine titled “eating clay and super humans”!
we are now getting ready for ancestral ignition, a workshop that myself and  some good friends are hosting here at my home in maine,september 16th  – 18th, 2011.
i love to hear from you, so please leave me comment below to let me know what you think of this post, the website, and what you would like to see next!
we also feel privileged to share the basics of fire-craft with our friends  and clients because so many of us were never taught how to properly or  efficiently build or maintain a fire.
nettle root is an herbal ally that seems almost designed to ensure the good health of a mans reproductive system into longevity (wives and girlfriends may want to take note).
this universe is full full full of life and life force.
it seems to be some kind of natural (or  perhaps unnatural) selection.
this is particularly perplexing since the pollen of pine trees has been used for millennia in china and korea as both food and a particularly powerful tonic and adaptogen, especially for the elderly.
here is another video from my archive showing how to identify and harvest  chaga if you are interested in trying this yourself.
for us to continue, for us to clean up the mess we have collectively made, we will have to, as a species, choose to walk down a new path.
the tonic bar team will be providing us with the most powerful, delicious healing drinks only available through this wonderful crew.
making your own nettle root tinctures at home can be easy, and only takes  few minutes.
have you ever seen plants happen?
the case  with clay is very similar, though the phenomena in this case is referred to as adsorption, which is also an electrical binding, but in this case to the  surface of the clay particle and without the accompanying exchange of a cation.
but we are new here – sometimes awesome, but ultimately  amateur, and we’ve been grasping.
an open source  invitation into deeper relation with the many things that fuel, heal, and  energize us; that which is alive all around us, co-createswith us.
not just for the participants, but also for the facilitators.
my lecture will revolve around eugenics and what “natural foods” really are, in this day and age.
each of us is simply bringing forward the health strategy that has fueled our unique missions and passions, and each of us does this in our own unique style.
join us for this sure-to-be spectacular call!
the surthriver understands the health challenges inherent in our modern world, and yet chooses to thrive despite them.
what if there was a lifestyle that protected your health, increased your ability to express your personal potential, kept your body clear of industrial, agricultural, radioactive and genetic pollution, protected your fertility, your stamina, your libido, and increased your will and desire to care for all of life?
i love to hear from you, so please leave me comment below to let me know  what you think of this post, the website, and what you would like to see next!
it’s a great place to stock up on great winter immune system supplements, such as medicinal mushroom extracts and colostrum.
check out the video below to hear more about ancestral ignition , and to see acclaimed botanist, author, and my foraging and  aboriginal skills guide and all around friend, arthur haines, make a  fire with a primitive tool known as the bow drill.
cider is usually defined as having an alcohol content of 2 – 8.5 % or higher, though my experience is that it tastes great and is incredibly refreshing even during initial fermentation when the alcohol content is negligible like that of kombucha.
we also feel privileged to share the basics of fire-craft with our friends and clients because so many of us were never taught how to properly or efficiently build or maintain a fire.
plants, fungi and bacteria are significantly adept at piloting humans.
today, most of the worlds citizens are living with an inverse relationship between micronutrients (vitamins, minerals, etc) and macronutrients (calories).
all this will be supported by our outdoor training withtai chi master dr. bob bacher (he trained extensively in china, and has taught tai chi for over 40 years)!
those who remain will have to be more than survivors, they will be surthrivalists.
each one of us must determine how we will responsibly relate to it as a substance, and how we will steward it with health and safety in mind.
after years of hosting events and retreats, we have learned what powerful transformational tools these kinds of workshops can be.
i believe in us, i believe in our ability as a species to make it through even the most challenging times.
from my perspective, it appears  that a diet that lacks the geophagy pattern could not be called a  “natural diet” at all, as it would essentially be deficient in  these all-important compounds.
this a path of dissolving separation.
since i received my first copy (just a couple of weeks ago on the winter solstice) i haven’t been able to put it down.
it is quickly claiming more and more habitat for itself,  displacing native species from their long held habitat.
and while we use the term “intoxicant” to refer to drinks that contain alcohol, these people didn’t associate their sacred beverages with “toxicity” at all.
it was 9 p.m., and  time was running out.
people choose to purchase these products because they add value to their  lives and health, and because they feel good about putting their money back  into the economic networks that support what they believe in.
current projects | view comments i believe we are standing on the edge of a truly profound event horizon, one that holds within its grasp the seed of the greatest human evolutionary renaissance since our species first emerged into the world some 200,000 years ago.
i have used this strategy, along side others, such as regular sauna use  (check out clearlight saunas, it is the brand of infrared  sauna that i have in my home), a clean whole food diet containing lots of wild  foods and herbs,drinking natural spring water, implimenting regular functional  exercise, all combined with and tied together with time spent in nature.
today we often refer to “hard cider” as the fully  fermented version, and “cider” as the unfermented, unfiltered juice  of apples, which is a departure from the traditional meaning.
i am home in maine, and gearing up for the headlong plunge into the frigid  depths of another new england winter!
the  behavior is termed“geophagy”, and is unquestionably part of the  species-specific diet of human beings.
in this video arthur and i go into the wilds in search of wild stinging nettle roots for our personal homemade medicine stashes!
“the fiction that supports the culture-nature separation is  rapidly failing under the weight of its own inconsistencies.
we will literally cover healthful living from conception to  the grave and beyond.
dec 01, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments nettle root tincturing and male health
our ancestors ate extremely micronutrient dense diets when compared against our own.
cider is so easy to  produce at homea cave man could do it!
i have had the opportuntiy to forage wild foods for a few years now, with  each season yielding greater and greater amounts of food.
ancestral plants is different, this book just seems to have it all.
the main focus of this retreat is to share  theancient and ancestral skill of aboriginal friction fire  with all of those who attend.
in fact, when someone neglects this important bit of personal  cleanliness, the rest of us can be easily turned off.
these are made right here in the state of maine (where we are based out of) and i have personally tested them now for almost a decade and a half, so i can honestly tell you they are the best around.
this has been, by far, my most prolific year of harvesting wild food and  medicine.
stay tuned for events that arthur and i will be putting on  where you can learn to harvest your own foods and medicines!
working safely and respectfully with ayahuasca and other teacher plants, alongside raw food/garden-variety plants, the teacher’s assistants so to speak, leads, of course, to many physical and spiritual benefits.
well, how about our sinuses?
we were sure to get  them in several different colors so that you can choose one thats right for  you.
the lifestyle that dominates the “developed  world” today is wreaking havoc on our immunity, our endocrine systems,  our neurology, our physiology and even our psychology.
the reason i share these videos and information is to demonstrate that the  issues with radiation did not begin fukushima, or even with chernobyl, but with  the “silent” nuclear war that has already happened on earth.
~d jul 02, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, written word | view comments hello friends, join me in western massachusetts’s
ancestral plants uses a series of icons to denote the possible uses of a  plant  (a little fire icon for plants with fire uses, an arrow for plants  with uses in archery, etc), and then the text details how, when, and which  parts of a plant can be used in this way.
most of the wild plants that i have been learning to use are incredibly  nutritious (as well as delicious) but a bit low in calories.
we are can’t wait to share our latest excitement with all of you there!
join forces with a vine.
i am hoping that in the future some of you will have the opportunity to  come to maine to learn the art in person.
they provide an exotic spiciness to any dish, from sweet  to savory, and they come with the added percieved benefit of being from my own  personal harvest.
earlier in the year i had the culturally enriching experience of imbibing  some of the traditional fermented beverages of south america, specificallychicha  (from maize) and masatao (fromcassava), both traditional ferments of the  people of peru.
fermentation can seem a bit intimidating when you haven’t tried it  before, and that is why i am posting this video.
the video that accompanies this blog post is a two part strategy breaking down how you can inexpensively and easily begin protecting yourself from the long-lived radio isotopes, which have now become a regular part of our habitat.
these wonderful drinks were both relatively low in alcohol, with probably just a bit less than a modern beer, and loaded with nutrition and calories, making them as much a food as a drink.
i had met stephen at a  workshop he gave in british columbia (here is an interview i did with him) and  having become friends, asked if he would be willing to collaborate with myself  and the surthrival team on a pine pollen herbal-monograph.
what an opportunity it is for me to spend three days with you amidst  kripalu’s gorgeous spring settings, with its wonderful food and renowned  staff.
in fact, learning to properly  construct and burn a fire has meant far more to me than just having another  survival skill.
plants, i’ve found, often speak in terms of one’s present perception – in shapeshifting symbols that change as you follow them, conversations to discern and decipher.
to ensure the continued integrity of this site and the quality experience that it provides for our users, we now post all comments on an approval-first basis.
my company,surthrival, became the first to bring a fully developed pine pollen product line to the natural foods market place in north america.
it is becoming  obvious that what we do to nature we do to ourselves, what we do to ourselves  we do to nature.”
stinging nettle (urtica dioica) is an herbaceous perennial flowering plant known by many of us for the painful stinging hairs (they are actually called “trichomes”) that inject histamine into our skin like micro hypodermic needles.
the thing we intend to ferment is known as a “prebiotic” (i am using this term loosely, don’t tell the scientists), this is the food source (sugars) for the organisms that will be converting the food into a fermented-food (in our case cabbage).
they wanted to know if i, daniel vitalis, was the kind of person to retreat into shadow, to fall sullenly into obscurity, or would i rise like the proverbial phoenix from the ashes of video doldrums to deliver the masterpiece that the world had been waiting for?
because our epi-genetics are influenced by everything in our environment, the lifestyle we have lived has shaped us into some new and all together different creature.
eating and drinking is intimate  communication.
check out this 12 minute video clip  (click on the image below) of the talk i delivered in costa mesa last october  titled, “developing sovereign health: the path of   rewilding ourselves”.
having harvested several pounds of these beautiful pink peppercorns, they are now dried and jarred, and have become a staple of my ever increasingly wild food rich diet.
there is a long and rich historical record of its harvest by native peoples of this continent and is to this day still harvested by existing native populations of north america, and in particular the great lakes region.
for those who don’t know, chaga is a fungal sclerotium with notable anti-cancer terpines (such as betulinic acid) and immune system modulating sugars (called beta glucans).
keep surthriving, the world is your inheritance.
homo sapiens have a long and rich history with psychoactive plant medicines, and they have always been a part of our traditional diets.
perhaps you have bought fresh apple juice from a local orchard before and had it begin to ferment on you!
yet perhaps most importantly, the process has opened, and continues to expand, a certain grandpermeability – pathways and bridges between common ground and the sky – between day-to-day and ceremonial nights.
a second message i have embedded into this video is the following: don’t take life or yourself too seriously.
to your health and prosperity, ~d feb 26, 2012 | current projects, wild food & water, written word | view comments greetings friends & welcome to 2012!
my last few videos have been focused on sharing some sovereign self-healthcare strategies that i have been developing and employing for some time now.
the fact that we ordered different dishes does not mean we are in nutritional opposition to one another.
storing vegetables for the winter is a critical skill, and  lacto-fermentation has some advantages that are hard to beat.
i will be speaking in washington, dc at the take back your health  conference on april 14th and 15th!
this video is the first part of that strategy, the rest of which i am eager to share with you in full over the next few weeks.
not just for the  participants, but also for the facilitators.
my hope is that our community will immediately see the value of this handy  little device and add it to the tool-belt of practices and skills that are  helping us to thrive in, and adapt to our modern environment.
we have chosen the intimate class size to ensure that each of you gets the  close personal attention you need, and to ensure that we don’t trample  our wild foraging grounds.
was what i was about to do; was i  crossing the boundary?
this is what i came up with, and if you haven’t seen it yet, i would love to hear your opinion.
rather, and more vital  to our personal healing – as well as to the continuation of life as we  know it – is our becoming acquainted with the organism producing the food  or medicine itself.
actually, i was reading a few of his books and found myself particularly spellbound by the section on pine pollen and its incredible androgenic effects.
this workshop will be fully catered with organic, local food, prepared by chef frank giglio, who is one of my best friends and a truly culinary mentor of mine.
as you can probably tell, i am an avid “foodie” so i have made  sure there will be an abundance of fresh local fruits and vegetables, wild fish  and seafood, as well as local goat milk and cheese!
this video below is part 2 of the stinging nettle root harvesting  video that i put up a couple of weeks back.
aside from the vegetables that keep in my cellar  (onions, squashes, garlic) and the vegetables i have frozen (wild fiddle heads,  japanese knotweed) lacto-ferments are my main source of “living”  vegetation.
(and other upcoming 2012 happenings ;)
our ancestors ate extremely  micronutrient dense diets when compared against our own.
the second is a documentary called trinity, and it shows with nothing less  than truly epic footage, the history of these tests.
i needed to do something out of the ordinary, something bold and hilarious.
what a wonderful feeling to know that this winter i will be eating more of my calories from foods that were sustainably harvested from my local landscape.
i wanted to share an article by my good friendmorgan maher, the host of the my upcoming online workshop on “visionary nutrition”.
and thus far, for most of us throughout mankind’s short history on this planet, that effort has not been made.
here is a review from the journal of  clinical epidemiology showing the effects of alcohol on life span!
you can see the detailshere.
these dvd’s are not for the dogmatic; they are for the open minded and adaptable!
i highly encourage you to join us in september at this event.
he or she has the ability to witness events like those that recently struck japan, and while maintaining a sense of empathy and compassion, takes the necessary steps to protect themselves, their health, and that of those they love.
ok, a little caveat, we might not actually add the probiotic, but rather let it colonize itself, in what is called a “wild fermentation”, as is the case here with sauerkraut.
it has been practiced around the world and is present in virtually all pre-industrial populations.
dec 01, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments this video below is part 2 of the stinging nettle root harvesting video that i put up a couple of weeks back.
plants, and plant-time, are like crop circles (which of course are made of plants in most cases) – like magic, they appear, leave traces, clues, fruit, messages.
this monograph is intended to  remedy that oversight and help establish it as one of the most important  medicinals in the herbalist’s repertory.”
for those of us who are developing or returning to our ancestral health  through traditional and indigenous nutritional practices, few food preparation  skills are as valuable to possess as lacto-fermentation.
“in order to live a magical life, you have to eat
our environment is changing faster than our minds can keep pace with, and this change is pressuring our biology to adapt at what are now nearly break neck speeds.
go ahead and leave a comment below, and please… don’t be shy dec 21, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments tune into daniel’s next interview on the one radio network on november 10th called “rewilding, tips & tricks for strengthening our epigenetic health”!
most noxious invasive, and today is illegal to plant, sell, or transport within  the state!
as public speakers and figures, there is a tremendous amount of pressure placed on us from all directions, as this is the nature of the work that we do.
seating is limited, so register soon!
it is 3 days long, catered by chef frank giglio with all local organic and wild food, and taught by myself and wild food expertarthur haines.
that said, each of us faces innumerable challenges to our health everyday, from the simple habituated patterns that have been passed on to us from the generations past, to more complex issues like genetically modified foods and radioactive fallout that have emerged more recently as a result of our rapidly developing technologies.
i will be talking aboutrewilding and transcending human domestication, and how we can stay strong, healthy, and actively-fit for a lifetime in a world that constantly pushing us towards a deeper state of domestication.
this video is a quick peek into my spring cleansing strategy which is most welcomed after a lengthy season of living indoors.
we really believe that stewardship of this ancient fire-craft is valuable for many reasons, not the least of which is the carrying on of what is one of our most ancient and fundamental human technologies.
i was  immediately impressed with the way that these were built into the nutritional  and spiritual systems of the area.
what are you doing this march?
this film is a beautiful depiction of how that is happening.
i have a good sense of the tastes of poisons, and this strategy has rarely failed me ( i will spare you the tale of the time i tried a taste of “jack-in-the-pulpit”.
it was a  huge hit, and got a few thousand views in its first 24 hours!
oh, and they taste great too!
the few hours that followed are little more than a blur, and if it  wasn’t for the record kept in the footage i am about to share with you, i  would’t have believed that it even happened.
you can check out lots of my past interviews with him (as well as hundreds of other amazing guests) in hisextensive audio archives .
lactobacillus takes up  residence in our small intestine, creating a kind of probiotic bio-shield in  the gut, where it aggressively out-competes other dys-biotic organisms that can  cause us to fall ill.
from my perspective it’s a kind of plant artistry.
we exist as businesses because we carry things that people want.
there are not many wild foods that taste particularly sweet here in new  england, but maple syrup is certainly the exception.
it is the strengthened engagement with the harmony of humanity – the beautiful songs we’ve sung and are singing, our peak performance, the best of the best – that boils down to our collective necessities – food, medicine, life – from which can be drawn ever-expanding analogies, inter-elated metaphor, and metamorphosis.
in fact, for much of the year i use it almost daily and have for several years now… chaga is normally decocted (boiled in water to produce a broth or tea) for about two hours, yielding a very mild vanilla like flavor (it containsvanillin as one of its components) which is great to drink on its own, with added cream and a sweetener (i like maple syrup) to create a drink much like coffee.
i  wanted to recreate this often undiscussed and overlooked aspect of traditional  human diets and bring it into my home and my life.
perhaps it is because they make their money in ways they are not so proud of.
our lodge sits directly on a private tropical beach, where the noni trees grow abundantly to meet the gentle lick of the caribbean sea.
make no mistake, we stand before the greatest evolutionary event our species has ever known.
none of us would be wrong for what we ordered,  it is just a menu after all.
dec 08, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments wild ricing in maine!
aside from the occasional whole foods splurge, i don’t suspect i will be eating very many fresh green vegetables until the wild spring shoots emerge after the thaw.
after a few days, to a few weeks, of implementing this practice it will  become immediately clear why i am recommending it.
stephen, in addition to being a prolific writer on herbal craft and lore, is a poet and word-smith par excellence.
the concept  of “rewilding” is about recreating or replicating  some of our natural conditions to make ushealthier and more robust .
oct 20, 2011 | current projects, interviews, wild food & water | view comments hello friends, welcome (or welcome back) and thanks again for stopping by.
de-barking  chaga yields a far more mild, pleasant tasting, less medicinal and more tonic  tea.
the world of “modern medicine”, to include modern dentistry,  seems far less interested in our health than it does in furthering its  quasi-scientific agendas, human experiemention, and profit driven procedures.
we strive to put on events that can nourish the body, inform the mind, and touch the spirit.
more than this, it also prevents the conversion of testosterone into a metabolite known as dihydrotestosterone, which has been implicated in benign prostate hyperplasia and even male pattern baldness.
for years i have been looking for the right toothpaste for my home  self-dentistry, and have experimented with a great many things.
if you are interested in joining us, or learning more about ancestral  ignition please contact us atinfo@danielvitalis.com.
actually, i was reading  a few of his books and found myself particularly spellbound by the section on  pine pollen and its incredible androgenic effects.
because our epi-genetics are  influenced by everything in our environment, the lifestyle we have lived has  shaped us into some new and all together different creature.
i had the privilege of both publishing this book  as well as writing the foreword, and am very excited to see it added  to  the existing herbal literature.
this is the life affirming new year resolution trip you have been quietly  desiring, and this is your chance to make it a reality!
you can learn a lot  from arugula – even more from cacao, or from an elder like maize.
each of the three of us represent extrememly driven and productive individuals.
and how delicious they  might be!”
they will have to, as these things are rapidly destroying the integrity  of our immune systems, our ability to reproduce, and even riddling our bodies  with cancers.
organisms native to the area where you  are fermenting, or – as is the case with cabbage – are indigenous  to the food itself.
i have now arrived at a strategy that is really working wonders for me, and  i feel could really work for you too.
each of us has spent countless hours employing personal development strategies to fulfill the blueprints for who we truly are and what we want to share with the world.
if you would like to get yourself a set, click here now!
-steve beyer dig around a bit, and you might observe the root of our crisis as being  humankind’s long, drunken lust for separation – mind/body,  human/nature, food/medicine, physical/spiritual.
eating well grown local food, drinking clean, fresh water, breathing clean  and uncontaminated air, and receiving brilliant sunlight on our skin will once  again become the norm, and again, this just might come about -for many at  least- out of necessity before want.
none of us would be wrong for what we ordered, it is just a menu after all.
for years i have been looking for the right toothpaste for my home self-dentistry, and have experimented with a great many things.
studies indicate that 1 – 3 drinks ethanol drinks per day seems to extend lifespans!
side with the plants, learn plants, eat plants, become plants  – let food be your medicine, let medicine be your food – and begin  to synthesize entirely different dimensions of time, technology, communication,  and potential.
this video comes on the heels of the last video we released, which details how to make the toothpaste that is used in this dental care strategy.
the differences between us  are beautiful and healthy, and ultimately what make this whole ride so much fun.
i needed something fresh, something bold, something that would send ripples coursing throughout the health-minded community… i had an idea, but would this be going to far?
each of us orders something different from the menu, something that is suited our own unique taste, preference, whim, and health goals.
i have been highly involved in brewing my own mead for  several months now, after learning the traditional nutrition that has been  derived from this fermented beverage for ages.
while many people use probiotic supplements in an  attempt to achieve these ends, most often lacto-fermented foods perform these  tasks better, can be made at home from whole, fresh, local foods, are  inexpensive, and add a considerable amount of quality nutrition in the form of  highly absorbable predigested, living food.
today we often refer to “hard cider” as the fully fermented version, and “cider” as the unfermented, unfiltered juice of apples, which is a departure from the traditional meaning.
it was my friends from the longevity now conference.
we simply cannot believe it.
~daniel jul 13, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments greetings and thanks for visiting!
we dash for the door, or some way out.
in other words,  we can use our environment and lifestyle to activate our genetic potential for  a more robust experience of life on earth!
ancestral plants uses a series of icons to denote the possible uses of a plant (a little fire icon for plants with fire uses, an arrow for plants with uses in archery, etc), and then the text details how, when, and which parts of a plant can be used in this way.
essentially though, it is process of healing and  strengthening.
with the life-form, the being.”
to say that i am grateful would hardly  do justice to this exuberant emotion.
for the last several years i have talked more about chaga (inonotus  obliquus) than any other wild foraged food or medicine.
you can find all the details and register  here.
prebiotic + probiotic =
i wish there was some way to convey flavor through the internet!
in addition, each participant will receive a complimentary $40 earthing kit so that they will experience the healing effects of being grounded even while in their hotel room.
but wait… theres more!
click here to see the  full length film for free between now and march 31st!
i wanted to recreate this often undiscussed and overlooked aspect of traditional human diets and bring it into my home and my life.
what we place inside ourselves, transforms us.
all  this will be supported by our outdoor training withtai chi master dr. bob bacher  (he trained extensively in china, and has taught tai chi for over 40 years)!
i feel very good about sharing these with you  because i know how much quality information they contain, and how diverse that  information is.
who knows what we have missed simply by not asking a plant what benefit it might have for mankind, rather than saying “tree, chop it and burn it for fire.”
in other words, once you have tried it and felt what clean and clear  sinus cavities feel like, you won’t want to go back.
here is what it  means.
please keep in mind that this toothpaste, in addition to providing the mild abrasive qualities we have become accustomed to in our commercially available toothpaste preparations, is designed to pull toxic cations out of the body, and to be an aid in our overall radio-protection strategy (protection from radioactive isotopes).
actually, it is common to  nearly all mammals, and in particular to broad ranging herbivores.
“as we begin (once again) to naturalize ourselves – both  nutritionally and medicinally – we may begin to discover that there is  far more to a plant than just its chemical composition, more than just its list  of constituent phyto-nutrients, vitamins and minerals.
no harvest yet has supplied me with the amount of food energy that i was able to gather this september when i learned the ancient art of “ricing”.
this began 65 years ago, and  has become particularly disconcerting in the last few months since the damage  to the japanese facility at fukushima.
we all participate,  we all dance with these elements – and it is these elements that, by and  large, make up our world.
this is the go-to book for understanding wild plants of the north  east, and the one that will accompany me into the field this year and for years  to come (mine is getting dog-eared already).
if plants – specifically teacher plants – convey anything, it  is that they have the upper hand, the higher branch.
our work is the distillation of years of study and practice, and we could be celebrating the diversity that this has created.
now is the time – our time – to seize this opportunity and sail it into the future!
what follows is a spoof of myself, david wolfe, and matt monarch all  hanging out in my kitchen making the “longevity now conference 16 dvd set  superfood tonic elixir smoothie”… i play all of the parts, and keep in mind that this was made on an extreme  time budget.
no harvest yet  has supplied me with the amount of food energy that i was able to gather this  september when i learned the ancient art of “ricing”.
matt monarch has ceaslessly brought more and more products to us at hisraw food world , and runs one of the tightest ships i have ever seen.
i hope this motivates you to get out and harvest some food or medicine for yourself.
de-barking chaga yields a far more mild, pleasant tasting, less medicinal and more tonic tea.
also, on another note, my opening evening talk at the longevity now conference last april is now available for purchase in dvd format, in an 18-dvd set which includes the lectures from each of the other health educators who spoke at the conference!
"rewild yourself: tips & tricks for strengthening your epigenetic health" i also want to share this quick video clip of my good friend shailene woodley’s appearance on thelate night with jimmy fallon show (check out that clip right here)!
this  will be a fun call, and patrick is never shy about taking me into edgy and  interesting territory!
thanks for visiting and i hope to see you there, ~daniel may 05, 2011 |
shailene has become a tremendous ally, helping to share the  message ofrewilding, spring water, and indigenous  nutrition with the world.
the plants  led me out of concrete jungles, cured any concrete ideologies and crumbling  health i might carry – hold my gaze and engage my commitment to unfolding  endeavors of evolutionary advantage – wild foods, living water,  permaculture, forest gardening, medicinal mushrooms, herbalism,  synaesthesia… yet perhaps most importantly, the process has opened, and continues to  expand, a certain grandpermeability – pathways and bridges  between common ground and the sky – between day-to-day and ceremonial  nights.
this workshop is the three days long, just enough time to share an entire, coherent, and well organized method for insuring your surthrival into the 21st century, and i am feeling very honored for the opportunity to do so.
truth caulkins, one of the speakers, brings us a world-class longevity tonic bar which will be open all weekend long!
i believe some can, and whats more, that some will.
if your looking to smog proof your sinuses, help to prevent sinus issues in  general, and improve your respiratory health, give the neti pot a try.
thats not hype, i  have literally been taking it everywhere.
the thing we intend to ferment is known as a “prebiotic” (i am  using this term loosely, don’t tell the scientists), this is the food  source (sugars) for the organisms that will be converting the food into a  fermented-food (in our case cabbage).
though today much of the wild rice sold in the market place is cultivated in rice paddies, this highly nutritious grain is still available to the forager for the price of his or her labor.
i hope you enjoy this two part “wild fermented hard cider”  video.
the entire book is extensively footnoted so that you can access the scientific literature from which so much of this information has been compiled.
try using a neti pot!
for those of you who are interested in developing more wild food identification, harvesting, and processing skills, please consider joining arthur and i for ourancestral plants workshop here in maine, may 6th – 8th, 2011.
celebrated kripalu center may 20th – 22nd for our invincible health workshop, a weekend of inspiration, invigoration, and community building with other’s who share your passions, your insights, and your lifestyle.
instead i have prepared this short video to highlight the experiences i had ricing this season.
jul 13, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments looking for some inexpensive radiation detoxification?
my good friend arthur haines has just released his new book ancestral  plants, and i must say, it is amongst the best wild food and plant-use book i  have yet to come across.
running in  circles, making mirages, chasing dragons, ouroborically awestruck, deaf, blind  and dumbfounded by this life, the afterlife, reality and its alternatives,  ghosts, dreams, philosophy, the powers that be, the secret life of plants  – all this raging intricacy.
click here to  learn more about this upcoming online event.
synbiotics like sauerkraut have long been used by those before us to fortify their immune systems, assist in digestion (their acidity helps to lower the ph of the stomach increasing the effectiveness of our hydrochloric acid), and to maintain healthy levels of the probiotic organisms that colonize our digestive lumen.
it is the open, clear, and relaxed sense of breathing; the ability to  fully utilize your respiration that makes you conscious of its importance.
also, i will be at the longevity now conference in april (1st-3rd), and  will be making tickets for the upcoming conference available soon…   so…  stay tuned, i might just be forced to top this last  video!
through the alchemy of the fermentative process something new will be created, and that new thing is known as the “synbiotic”.
here is a little bit more information on the event, as well as the kripalu  center itself.
i know what your thinking, shouldn’t i identify the plantbefore i taste it?
i have personally been witness to it in my own life amongst people that i  love dearly.
happy new year, both solar (winter solstice) and gregorian (jan 1st)!
we will have our full product line up for sale at our booth, along with some surprises we are waiting to reveal for the first time at the conference!
otherwise, we simply carry this debris around, haphazardly sneezing or blowing it out, or letting it drain back into our throats…
your time here is very appreciated.
where the consensus amongst the conscious is that we are indeed all one, weare nature, there is no separation, and it’s all changing dramatically.
it was my desire to begin wild fermenting a local sugar of low to moderate alcohol content that could be drank unfiltered and unpasteruized.
it inhabits the shallow waters of lakes, ponds, and slow moving rivers.
the following is a short excerpt from the opening pages of the book: “although the western world has been undergoing its greatest herbal  renaissance in over a century the medicinal actions of trees are often  overlooked, perhaps none more so than pine.
better yet, take some time to develop mastery of this skill by making it a regular practice!
i truly hope that you get the chance to watch these, as this is why i do what i do.
otherwise, we simply carry this debris around, haphazardly sneezing or  blowing it out, or letting it drain back into our throats…  blah!
people are constantly asking me to recommend a  book on the subject, and there just haven’t been many that i have found  particularly helpful.
on this interview, daniel will be speaking about his latest research  into thereclassification of modern humans as a new subspecies.
i  promise if you give it just one week of consistent practice, not only will you  easily master this skill, but you will have a life long practice that will  contribute to your health and personal detoxification strategy.
the survivalist too often operates from a place of fear and uncertainty.
this means that as a forager i am still largely dependent on my local agricultural system to provide me with calories that i need to live out my daily life.
can any of us adapt fast enough?
turning simple sugars into ethanol, amino acids, and b complex vitamins, not to mention a culturally and ritually significant inebriant is a nearly ubiquitous human behavior, and part of what holds the fabric of traditional societies together.
wild rice however, is a complex carbohydrate (macro-nutrient), and unlike  the mono-cropped and refined carbohydrates of the average american diet, is a  rich whole food grain loaded with vitamins and minerals (micronutrients) as  well.
each of us orders something different from  the menu, something that is suited our own unique taste, preference, whim, and  health goals.
that  should be obvious, though there are those that detract from this.
enjoy the summer sunshine!
whats more, the flowing sap of the maple tree is the first wild food to emerge after a long and cold snow covered new england winter.
this video is a message to those people.
for instance, lacto-fermentaion actually increases the amount of nutrition that was present in the vegetable alone (by converting sugars into protein rich bacterial bodies, b vitamins, and omega 3 fatty acids), increase the bio-availability of the existing nutrition (by breaking down cell walls by predigesting the vegetables cellulose, and removing anti-nutrients) and all the while preserving the inherent nutrition better than freezing, canning, or drying!
it takes a lot, and it is not always easy.
into which, ayahuasca digs deep, purging junk, transforming thoughts, composting things, creating soil from soul, turning the stomach into a womb, encouraging conditions right, good, and fertile – so it can root, grow, and flower.
so it’s really up to us to take an  interest if we are to make the friendship of those spirits.
homo  sapiens have a long and rich history with psychoactive plant medicines, and  they have always been a part of our traditional diets.
it’s a great place to stock up on great winter immune system  supplements, such as medicinal mushroom extracts and colostrum.
this has been, by far, my most prolific year of harvesting wild food and medicine.
gorman apr 06, 2012 | audio podcasts, current projects, interviews, wild food & water, written word | view comments it was a tremendous honor to be a part of the new documentary film “hungry for change”.
welcome friends, foodies, and foragers!
watch the video  above where i compare some of the features against other design-styles.
this past autumn was a really exciting time for my team and i, with so many  of our projects coming to fruition and our message ofrewilding, spring water, and indigenous nutrition spreading around our  community and beyond, faster than we ever imagined.
we are blessed to receive such a wide range of knowledge and experience to learn from!
current projects visionary nutrition greetings friends!
it says “you can never make fun of us better than we can of ourselves!”, and that living without humor in your life is more than ugly, it is unhealthy and violates one of realities prime directives.
at the urban farm fermentory 200 anderson st. – bay 4 portland, me 04101 207-653-7406 - or - brewing equipment kit ~
they wanted to know if i, daniel  vitalis, was the kind of person to retreat into shadow, to fall sullenly into  obscurity, or would i rise like the proverbial phoenix from the ashes of video  doldrums to deliver the masterpiece that the world had been waiting for?
check out my coming events page to see more of what i am up to in 2012, and how you can come be a part of it!
ancestral plants finally, a wild food and medicine book that really delivers!
my hope is that our community will immediately see the value of this handy little device and add it to the tool-belt of practices and skills that are helping us to thrive in, and adapt to our modern environment.
we do not and will not have any  other options left.
if you are interested in developing this skill set as well, or if you have  experience but are ready to go deeper please check out myancestral plants  workshop this may in southern maine!
optional, available at event $60 includes: ingredient kit ~ optional, available at event $40 includes: if you’d like to register for the full get your gear, brew your mead package, including admission, ingredients, and all brewing gear so you can take home your first batch of fermenting mead, register here.
this allows me to operate without  fear, but remain in a dominant emotion of confidence.
for the last  couple of weeks myself and several good friends and great acquaintances have  been working together diligently to get the word out about the 16 dvd set that  was filmed last september at the longevity now conference in costa mesa, ca.
one of those dvd’s is dedicated to the talks that i gave at the conference, and is the information that is most on my heart and mind now.
~daniel nov 24, 2010 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments welcome friends, foodies, and foragers!
i have been highly involved in brewing my own mead for several months now, after learning the traditional nutrition that has been derived from this fermented beverage for ages.
lets explore the awakening, forge a path into the new paradigm together, and let’s do it in a place as beautiful as this.
one of  the great things about a plant like this, is there there is no concern of over  harvest.
we will have an experienced chef on hand to prepare our meals, and keep us fueled up for our exciting and dramatic daily excursions!
"rewild yourself: tips & tricks for strengthening your epigenetic  health" i also want to share this quick video clip of my good  friend shailene woodley’s appearance on thelate night with  jimmy fallon show (check out that clip right here)!
our species’ “ultimate verdict” is  the concept of death.
for those who would like a deeper look into the biological processes that take place in the fermentation of cabbage into sauerkraut, check out this link!
it is here all around us; eden, heaven – find it in an apple.
however, in this day and age, most of us are unable to spend all of our time outdoors ~ that is where the grounding technology comes in.
their constant quest instead was securing the macronutrient (carbohydrate, lipid, and protein calories) that they required for their huge daily energy expenditures.
we do not and will not have any other options left.
keep in mind that this practice, consuming clay and other earth compounds,  is perhaps one of the oldest of all human behaviors.
aug 02, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water, written word | view comments greetings friends, thanks for stopping by.
three days gives us time to deeply explore the lifestyle that is  the theme of this workshop.
today is the first blizzard of 2011 here in maine, and i am off to enjoy  the snow!
in full honesty, i don’t believe that most of – or even many of  – the human beings alive today will carry forth their genetic material  into the future.
commonly referred to and often mistaken as “the ayahuasca diet”- plant dietas are, in very general terms; a discipline and process of cleansing, purging, healing, learning, and building right-relationship.
this video is about the strategies that i have been  employing since the japan disaster earlier this year.
this allows me to operate without fear, but remain in a dominant emotion of confidence.
pine pollen, given its potency, its  similarity to ginseng in some of its actions, and its status as, perhaps,the premier phytoandrogen on the planet, should have been recognized long  before now as the powerful medicinal it is.
from it nothing is hidden and it knows what’s
more  than that, it also lays out which plants may be useful as a fire resource (for  friction fire, tinder etc), for cordage (plants that contain fibers that can be  removed and braided in to cord), archery uses (woods that are optimal for  making bows or arrows), and even uses like dyes, glues, and basketry.
what – so it provides certain answers in the form of nourishment – literally; “bringing (you) up, raising, fostering, supporting, preserving”.
click here to see the full length film for free between now and march 31st!
chemical and  radiation exposure, emf’s, xeno-estrogens, fluoride, pharmaceuticals, and  a host of other health pitfalls will also be addressed to ensure that each  participant can protect and detoxify themselves from these safely and  adequately.
the photos are very clear and the descriptions have been written by someone who has actually used the plants to the ends described therein (believe me, this is not the norm).
this is afree interview – call in to listen live at 10 a.m. est (9 a.m. cst & 8 a.m. pst).
pine pollen, given its potency, its similarity to ginseng in some of its actions, and its status as, perhaps,the premier phytoandrogen on the planet, should have been recognized long before now as the powerful medicinal it is.
timelapse  the situation and it’s like we appeared only yesterday –  instantaneously – in ever-changing form, on a particular planet.
thousands of chinese herbs have entered the western pharmacopoeia; the earliest and best known is perhaps ginseng.
because we will be teaching actual skills on the land, we must limit the class size in order to ensure that each student experiences an attentive learning environment.
p.p.s. i understand the many detrimental effects that alcoholism and alcohol related accidents have had on us as individuals and as a civilization.
check out my coming events page to see more of what i am up to in 2012, and  how you can come be a part of it!
it was 9 p.m., and time was running out.
to your health and prosperity, ~d feb 26, 2012 | current projects, wild food & water, written word | view  comments is hollywood rewilding?
but to a plant, death is laughable.
one of the great things about a plant like this, is there there is no concern of over harvest.
~d jul 02, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, written word | view  comments invincible health at the kripalu center hello friends, join me in western massachusetts’s
side with the plants, learn plants, eat plants, become plants – let food be your medicine, let medicine be your food – and begin to synthesize entirely different dimensions of time, technology, communication, and potential.
we all require training and education in order to successfully navigate a transitioning world that sometimes seems -strangely- designed to corrupt our health, our values, and even our will.
text messages from my close friends david wolfe and chef frank giglio started rolling in.
this is what i came up with, and  if you haven’t seen it yet, i would love to hear your opinion.
many wild foraged plants are eaten like vegetables (stinging nettle come to mind) but lack the energy density that we get from meats, grains, oils, concentrated sugars.
my close friendfrank giglio will be creating all of our meals throughout the weekend using the freshest local, organic, and wild-crafted ingredients.
what role do  psychoactive’s play today, and if they are no longer represented in our  food supply, is it possible that we can become “alkaloid  deficient”?
since the prostrate is the endocrine gland thats responsible for male orgasm, taking care of it for a lifetime is probably a good idea!
i so look forward to sharing my knowledge on this ancient  beverage at our workshop coming up in november!
~daniel mar 20, 2012 | audio podcasts, current projects, featured videos, interviews ,wild food & water, written word | view comments greetings rewilder’s!
branches bowed under the weight of pinkish-red berries as i sped across the highway on a recent trip to southern florida last december.
that is all changing for me now that i have learned to forage a few key items, perhaps the greatest and most important, of which is wild rice.
thank you for taking the time.
for instance, methods for removing radioactive isotopes from our body fat, muscles and bones, pcb’s and other industrial chemicals from our lipid stores, and keeping genetically modified bio-pollutants out of our bodies will become as common place as removing plaque from your teeth or dirt from beneath your fingernails.
who knows what we have missed simply by not  asking a plant what benefit it might have for mankind, rather than saying  “tree, chop it and burn it for fire.”
and one of my  favorites, fresh water coconuts to drink all day long!
they provide an exotic spiciness to any dish, from sweet to savory, and they come with the added percieved benefit of being from my own personal harvest.
~daniel jan 12, 2011 | current projects, interviews, wild food & water | view comments happy new year, both solar (winter solstice) and gregorian (jan 1st)!
from my perspective it’s a kind of  plant artistry.
the dvd set is a compilation of hours, upon  hours, of live footage from the weekend long event and includes tons of the  latest health information and inspiration.
this is because of a  curing process used with commercially prepared “wild rice” that  causes the grains to become very hard and locks in some of the unpleasantly  strong flavors.
and don’t forget to check out the mead making workshop that i have  coming up next week.
from yet another direction, the “higher reflection” in a sense  themother of raw, living diets, can be seen in the traditions and  disciplines ofplant dietas.
in other words, those who can keep their bodies clean and detoxified,  nourished and healthy, no matter what the level of contamination.
i love drinking it this way  throughout the day, and like saving the older, dryer, and “harder”  cider for the evenings with dinner and after.
we are up against something so much more powerful than any natural disaster, we are up against our selves.
i don’t  understand why there are people who are critical of me or anyone in my field  for being a business person.
with this in mind, i set forth exploring a raw food diet – with sharp eyes and a healthy aversion to dogma and definitions.
timelapse the situation and it’s like we appeared only yesterday – instantaneously – in ever-changing form, on a particular planet.
the surthriver understands the health challenges inherent in our modern  world, and yet chooses to thrive despite them.
a second message i have embedded into this video is the following:   don’t take life or yourself too seriously.
ok, so forgive me here, but i am going to interject a few definitions and a quick mathmatical formula.
we really believe that stewardship of this  ancient fire-craft is valuable for many reasons, not the least of which is the  carrying on of what is one of our most ancient and fundamental human  technologies.
i really believe there is such a lifestyle, and living it is so  much more exciting and rewarding than the life that most of us were born to.
my experience has been  that you can only truly feel the chronic congestion after you have cleared it.
i will be talking about everything from the  “best foods available in the super-market” to the “ worst food that people are eating today“.
now is the time – our time – to seize  this opportunity and sail it into the future!
be it food or information – we become what we consume, and we produce  from the inside out.
if you have never made a fermentation like this at home, take heart!
you can imagine that prior to the widespread use of refrigeration, areas of the world with large apple yields would have had quite a bit of cider on hand, as the juice of fresh apples ferments quite readily.
you can see that video here.
the film exposes  the myths and mistruths that the diet-fad and processed food industries have  perpetrated on a mis-educated populace for so many years.
“as we begin (once again) to naturalize ourselves – both nutritionally and medicinally – we may begin to discover that there is far more to a plant than just its chemical composition, more than just its list of constituent phyto-nutrients, vitamins and minerals.
i was immediately impressed with the way that these were built into the nutritional and spiritual systems of the area.
how would i be able to do what i do if i  otherwise had a full time career doing something else?
i truly hope that you get the chance to watch these, as this is  why i do what i do.
keep in mind that this practice, consuming clay and other earth compounds, is perhaps one of the oldest of all human behaviors.
if you are looking  for a premier chaga extract you can find it at my company,surthrival.
today our air is loaded  with everything from dust (which is mostly dead skin cells) to heavy metals,  from car exhaust to radioactive isoptopes.
it was a huge hit, and got a few thousand views in its first 24 hours!
check out this 12 minute video clip (click on the image below) of the talk i delivered in costa mesa last october titled, “developing sovereign health: the path of rewilding ourselves”.
watch the video above where i compare some of the features against other design-styles.
each of us is simply  bringing forward the health strategy that has fueled our unique missions and  passions, and each of us does this in our own unique style.
produce solutions – dissolve.
spending time witharthur haines has propelled my wild  nutrition path forward in ways i am so grateful for.
thanks for watching and i can’t wait to hear your results!
also, special thanks to my friends at evolver for inviting me to be a part of thevisionary nutrition project, beginning on april 8th with my interview, where i will be teaching about the role of psychoactive plants in the human ecological and dietary niche.
ok, so of course maine hasn’t got any coconuts, but we do have  something that tastes just as good – maybe better – and is just as  nutritious.
it is a wild new idea that comes from the effects our modern lifestyle  has had on our epi-genome and our health.
this is the go-to book for understanding wild plants of the north east, and the one that will accompany me into the field this year and for years to come (mine is getting dog-eared already).
hour after  hour i burned to know and meet the species who’s berry drupes splatter  painted pink the otherwise indistinguishable wall of sub-tropic greenery that  lined the  highway 75.
due to its status as florida’s floral-enemy-number-one, we  can harvest its berries with a kind of impunity that is rarely experienced by  the modern forager.
recently, she also appeared on the ellen  degeneres show carrying a mason jar of spring water which she promptly shared  with ellen!
we have chosen the intimate class size to ensure that each of you gets the close personal attention you need, and to ensure that we don’t trample our wild foraging grounds.
we are friends first and foremost, and we know the value of love and laughter.
if this wasn’t enough, phyto-chemicals in nettle root further work to prevent benign prostate hyperplasia (bph) by stopping the binding of dht to the prostate membrane.
here to reserve your seat today!
wolfe several years ago, during dieta with ayahuasca, the plants  suggested to me that “ayahuasca would go best with raw food”.
the first wild food of the season!
the experience of harvesting the  ingredients for the mead from my environment (honey, fruits, herbs, etc.)
essentially, plants can do whatever they want with humans, and with near-absolute impunity.
the last two weekend events we hosted in maine turned out to be  game-changers for nearly everyone involved.
eat garbage conjured and sold by the darkest  magicians – become “stay puft marshmallow man”; your  ill-conceived nightmares.
today is the first blizzard of 2011 here in maine, and i am off to enjoy the snow!
plants, i’ve found, often speak in terms of one’s present  perception – in shapeshifting symbols that change as you follow them,  conversations to discern and decipher.
nettle root is an herbal ally that seems almost designed to ensure the good  health of a mans reproductive system into longevity (wives and girlfriends may  want to take note).
they told me that i had until midnight to get something onto youtube, if i was to regain my honor.
imagine the fearlessness it takes to put yourself out there to the world.
in this video arthur  and i go into the wilds in search of wild stinging nettle roots for our  personal homemade medicine stashes!
this is going to be a very special weekend, featuring talks by botharthur haines and myself, as well as introductions to several earth based surthrival skills.
with this home-made clay or zeolite toothpaste, the goal is indeed to swallow it, moving it into the intestine where it can go to work mopping up industrial and nuclear debris that has bioaccumulated in our tissues.
our environment is changing faster than our minds can keep pace with, and  this change is pressuring our biology to adapt at what are now nearly break  neck speeds.
running in circles, making mirages, chasing dragons, ouroborically awestruck, deaf, blind and dumbfounded by this life, the afterlife, reality and its alternatives, ghosts, dreams, philosophy, the powers that be, the secret life of plants – all this raging intricacy.
this deserves to be laughed at sometimes… its funny.
there are of course wonderful uses for chaga with its bark on as well,  particularly as an anti-neoplastic medicine.
i promise if you give it just one week of consistent practice, not only will you easily master this skill, but you will have a life long practice that will contribute to your health and personal detoxification strategy.
these particles are constantly lodging in and congesting our upper respiratory tract, creating an environment for infection and/or being drawn still deeper into our lower respiratory tract (our lungs).
today our air is loaded with everything from dust (which is mostly dead skin cells) to heavy metals, from car exhaust to radioactive isoptopes.
eating well grown local food, drinking clean, fresh water, breathing clean and uncontaminated air, and receiving brilliant sunlight on our skin will once again become the norm, and again, this just might come about -for many at least- out of necessity before want.
it  has been working very well for me, and it just might work for you too.
i wish there was some way to convey flavor  through the internet!
david wolfe and hislongevity warehouse  exists to support peoples health and developement, and is critical to keeping  the message alive and available.
we have priced this  event very resonably, and i look forward to sharing a message of empowerment,  resolve, wisdom, and health with all who attend.
each character had to be filmed separately and i had to  shave between each filming session.
this video is the first part of  that strategy, the rest of which i am eager to share with you in full over the  next few weeks.
your readership is truly appreciated, ~daniel aug 02, 2011 | current projects, featured videos, wild food & water,  written word | view comments how to make your own detoxifying toothpaste, and details on my annual trip  to peru greetings friends, thanks for stopping by.
thats all for now, though i eagerly await your comments, so please let me know what you would like to see future videos on!
what does all this mean?
regardless, taking actions like these has put me at considerable ease about the radio-isotopes in our environment.
in the meantime, check out the video below to see the harvest and processing of these beautifully blush bunches of berries!
they can throw you down, clean you up, send you out to space, thrust you on a new paths, make you change your ways, whisper advice, keep you warm, dry, sheltered, alive, and in some cases, even kill you.
i hope you enjoy this two part “wild fermented hard cider” video.
looking forward to seeing you all there!
to learn more about this excellent dvd offer or to purchase your copy today,follow this link.
for those of you who are interested in developing more wild food  identification, harvesting, and processing skills, please consider joining  arthur and i for ourancestral plants workshop here in maine, may 6th –  8th, 2011.
they will have to, as these things are rapidly destroying the integrity of our immune systems, our ability to reproduce, and even riddling our bodies with cancers.
many of us have taken our diets and nutrition into our own hands, though when it comes to personal health care, few of us have really stepped out and away from the entrenched medical system’s doctor/dentist treatment, and the role we play in it as “patient” (from the latin meaning “suffering”).
if you are  interested in joining us for this online workshop just click the banner below.
it has been really exciting to share these with you all, and for me it  feels like a timely message, given the considerable distrust and  dissatisfaction so many of us have been feeling for mainstream  “medicine” in recent years.
in the new orleans “jungleland” – behind climates of chaos and the media newsfeed, burnt cars and dead bodies are consumed by tall grass.
the fresh maple sap is  so refreshing, so hydrating, and tastes so good that it is almost shocking that  more people aren’t taking advantage of this delicious, abundant, and free  late winter/early spring drink!
we will be covering a very comprehensive lifestyle approach that can  – and i believe will – give one the confidence to step into the  world each day with a sense of abundant growth, rather and fear and uncertainty.
this video is for all of you who celebrate being grown-ups, and are  unafraid to raise yourselves up and out of the near ubiquitousneoteny that is  now standard in the epi-genome in our “modernized” population.
stay tuned for events that arthur and i will be putting on where you can learn to harvest your own foods and medicines!
wolfe several years ago, during dieta with ayahuasca, the plants suggested to me that “ayahuasca would go best with raw food”.
text messages from my close friends david wolfe and chef frank giglio  started rolling in.
come play with us in paradise as we explore the bounty of the pachamama (mother earth)!
this second video is about my august 4th, 11 day tour of peru, for which i  have just a few openings left.
stephen, having studied pine pollen extensively, had much to share on the subject.
after 14 years of using a neti pot on a regular, almost daily basis – i must admit, i am amazed how overlooked this basic bit of personal hygiene is.
this workshop is the three days long, just enough time to share an entire,  coherent, and well organized method for insuring your surthrival into the 21st  century, and i am feeling very honored for the opportunity to do so.
what an opportunity it is for me to spend three days with you amidst kripalu’s gorgeous spring settings, with its wonderful food and renowned staff.
raw, living diets take many forms.
nasal irrigation for optimal upper respiratory health greetings, and thank you for visiting this domain!
though today much of the wild rice sold in the market place is cultivated  in rice paddies, this highly nutritious grain is still available to the forager  for the price of his or her labor.
detailing herbal uses of these plants in addition to their uses as foods.
either the pictures weren’t clear, the text wasn’t informative enough, the author was lacking real experience, or the book just wasn’t laid out in a user friendly way (ok, samuel thayer’s books are an exception to these criticisms, and are excellent wild food references).
we are up against something so much more  powerful than any natural disaster, we are up against our selves.
the businesses that each of us run are beautiful, thriving, life promoting operations and each of them is working to support the vision that each of us share for the world.
shailene has become a tremendous ally, helping to share the message ofrewilding, spring water, and indigenous nutrition with the world.
the first will be a three day wild food education, identifaction,  gathering, processing, and preparation workshop!
then, suddenly i was flooded by a deluge of emails.
michael pollan, for example, explores this extensively and convincingly in his work, posing the question: “what if we are all just pawns in corn’s clever strategy game to rule the earth?”.
yet we appear now to see eye to eye with the storm.
in the second half of the video i’ve included a recipe that i have been making with fresh maple water, chaga, and a bit of cream.
the dvd set is a compilation of hours, upon hours, of live footage from the weekend long event and includes tons of the latest health information and inspiration.
more than that, it also lays out which plants may be useful as a fire resource (for friction fire, tinder etc), for cordage (plants that contain fibers that can be removed and braided in to cord), archery uses (woods that are optimal for making bows or arrows), and even uses like dyes, glues, and basketry.