plastic pots can be sued as liners for both cement, and terracotta pots.
they can  be moved around to take advantage of sun or shade, given a prominent position  when flowering, and taken indoors when at their best.
beware  of cheap potting mixes - it is a false economy to buy a good plant, and expect  it to grow happily in cheap potting mix.
the flower pot is one of the most ancient forms of gardening, having been found in the ruins of ancient mediterranean cities, and in ancient biblical references.
"pots" is a simple word to embrace the myriad shapes and sizes of containers in which plants may be grown, from a miniature bonsai pot to a large urn or barrel, from hollow logs to drain pipes !
it is possible to design a total landscape in a small space.
carefully trim the roots, and prune the branchlets to compensate  for root loss, and to neaten or reshape.
it should not detract from the plant.
containers are also used in larger gardens for their versatility.
plastic pots can be sued as liners for  both cement, and terracotta pots.
the variety of plants  is as great as the range of containers.
buy a mix with australian standards  accreditation, and for porous containers, choose a specialised mix, with high  moisture retaining properties.
carefully trim the roots, and prune the branchlets to compensate for root loss, and to neaten or reshape.
they add interest to  leisure areas"difficult" or fussy plants can be kept in pots  to provide the most suitable soil and growing conditions.
window boxes, a very old form of gardening, have regained popularity.
never let a pot sit in a saucer of water ...
wait until the surface 1 to 2 cm of soil is dry before re-watering.
regular pinch pruning of terminal  growth is the easiest and best method.
regular pinch pruning of terminal growth is the easiest and best method.
cement pots should be used carefully because of their lime content.
the best time is just  after flowering.
hooks and pulleys can be used to  make baskets more accessible.
plants on patios, or in courtyards should be raised to allow water to drain freely and to hinder snails and other pests.
potting mixes some special mixes are available for baskets.
when they move they can take their favourite  plants with them.
liners have a  limited life but by the time they have broken down repotting is usually  necessary anyway.
window boxes, a very old  form of gardening, have regained popularity.
cement pots should be used  carefully because of their lime content.
the right selection is important  from the aesthetic and the practical point of view.
its style and size must be suited to the plant and to its site, blending with the ambience of its surroundings.
some general pruning is necessary for container plants.
baskets and pots with australian natives --- select a  topic --- gardening overview trades, products & services directory project  ideas tools & equipment products & materials plant & grow library  landscaping maintenance tips, tricks & savings industrial links "pots" is a simple word to embrace the myriad shapes and  sizes of containers in which plants may be grown, from a miniature bonsai pot  to a large urn or barrel, from hollow logs to drain pipes !
a pot may be an  artistic statement or merely a utensil to house a plant until it is ready to be  placed in the ground.
the right selection is important from the aesthetic and the practical point of view.
vermiculite or perlite also decrease the weight and are better soil  conditioners.
the elderly and those with limited mobility can enjoy the beauty and fragrance of a garden and the exercise that comes with caring for it.
building | restoring & renovating | gardening | special features | news & events | questions & answers | eco corner | disability corner | kids corner | out & about | price guide copyright © 2000-2002 bintec pty ltd.
give the container a good soaking after planting and allow it to  drain before hanging.
building | restoring &  renovating | gardening | special features | news & events | questions &  answers | eco corner | disability corner | kids corner | out & about |  price guide copyright © 2000-2002 bintec pty ltd.
people who live in confined inner city areas of in apartment blocks, with little or no garden area, can enjoy a wide range of native plants.
apply water  gently- thoroughly soaking the soil.
plants on patios, or in courtyards should be raised to allow water to drain  freely and to hinder snails and other pests.
containers can provide a portable garden, ideal for those who are renting a home.
balconies  and courtyards can be enlivened by a potted garden.
apply water gently- thoroughly soaking the soil.
it is possible to design a total  landscape in a small space.
they can add life to blank walls and fences, pergolas  and verandahs, and are ideal for people with little space available for  gardening or for pots.
give the container a good soaking after planting and allow it to drain before hanging.
never use earth from the garden in pots.
nutrients in the soil are leached out by watering more quickly in a hanging  container so regular feeding is beneficial.
the elderly and those with limited mobility can enjoy the  beauty and fragrance of a garden and the exercise that comes with caring for  it.
these generally include  water-retention crystals and some mixes contain a lot of plastic foam to reduce  the weight.
source: from greengold website - for more info go to their website other topics how to identify water efficient plants previous: pot plants using less water show all topics | goto top of page home | site map | products & services |
avoid fertilisers high in phosphorous as many natives are sensitive to this.
what are the advantages?
a pot may be an artistic statement or merely a utensil to house a plant until it is ready to be placed in the ground.
periodic repotting is necessary for healthy nutrient levels.
nutrients in the soil are leached out by watering more quickly in a hanging container so regular feeding is beneficial.
the pot is one of the oldest known utensils when pottery  and metals were first part of human industry.
repotting: if plants lack vigour and do not respond to watering and feeding, repotting is desirable, using fresh potting mix.
do not feed if the plant is growing well.
source: from greengold website - for more info go to their website show all topics | goto top of page home | site map | products & services |
avoid fertilisers high in phosphorous as  many natives are sensitive to this.
the best time is just after flowering.
when they move they can take their favourite plants with them.
prepared potting mixes available from yourgreengold  garden centre, are the easiest and cheapest source of potting soil.
containers can provide a portable garden, ideal for  those who are renting a home.
consider first the location, whether it is in sun or shade and the effect  you wish to create.
choose plants which are long-flowering or group together,  either in large containers, or in coordinated smaller ones, varieties which are  complementary and will bloom successively over a long period.
once or twice a year when plants  are in active growth give a light application of a slow-release fertiliser  suitable for natives.
selecting a container: the container can be any receptacle that  holds soil, as long as it has good drainage.
plastic containers with their own saucers can be purchased in a wide range of styles and colours.
growing requirements containers impose obvious restrictions on the root systems of plants.
prepared potting mixes available from yourgreengold garden centre, are the easiest and cheapest source of potting soil.
there needs to be space for  the roots to grow, but the plant must be in proportion.
pots can be terracotta,  ceramic, plastic, or wood.
feeding: plants in containers need more  frequent fertilising for moderate but healthy growth.
selecting a container: the container can be any receptacle that holds soil, as long as it has good drainage.
this causes the mix in the bottom of the container to turn sour, and  ultimately the loss of the plant.
many native plants are suited to container growing.
many people say  that there is probably nothing more appealing than the display provided by well  grown plants in hanging baskets: they add beauty to many situation, both  indoors and out, and the flowers and foliage are often better appreciated since  they occur at eye level.
some have self-watering systems, a variety  of ceramic pots are available but these can prove very heavy and care must be  taken in securing them to upright supports.
there is a  wide variety of fertilisers available -osmocote for natives is a useful  slow release fertiliser, and nitrosol used as directed for natives, is  recommended as a liquid fertiliser.
pruning: some  pruning is necessary for container plants.
many people say that there is probably nothing more appealing than the display provided by well grown plants in hanging baskets: they add beauty to many situation, both indoors and out, and the flowers and foliage are often better appreciated since they occur at eye level.
pruning: some pruning is necessary for container plants.
once or twice a year when plants are in active growth give a light application of a slow-release fertiliser suitable for natives.
some have self-watering systems, a variety of ceramic pots are available but these can prove very heavy and care must be taken in securing them to upright supports.
hooks and pulleys can be used to make baskets more accessible.
feeding: plants in containers need more frequent fertilising for moderate but healthy growth.
do not leave pots standing in water.
there is a wide variety of fertilisers available -osmocote for natives is a useful slow release fertiliser, and nitrosol used as directed for natives, is recommended as a liquid fertiliser.
regular pinch  pruning of terminal growth is the easiest and best method.
the pot is one of the oldest known utensils when pottery and metals were first part of human industry.
periodic repotting is necessary for healthy nutrient  levels.
plant care baskets require frequent water checks so that they don't dry out.
the variety of plants is as great as the range of containers.
these generally include water-retention crystals and some mixes contain a lot of plastic foam to reduce the weight.
wash the pot thoroughly before re-using.
there needs to be space for the roots to grow, but the plant must be in proportion.
vermiculite or perlite also decrease the weight and are better soil conditioners.
its style and size must be  suited to the plant and to its site, blending with the ambience of its  surroundings.
in containers, there is a limited volume of soil providing nutrients and moisture, and drainage and aeration are reduced compared with the same soil in the garden.
repotting: if plants lack vigour and  do not respond to watering and feeding, repotting is desirable, using fresh  potting mix.
the most basic and the commonest is the wireframe lined with paperbark or  wool.
the flower pot is one of the most  ancient forms of gardening, having been found in the ruins of ancient  mediterranean cities, and in ancient biblical references.
they add interest to leisure areas"difficult" or fussy plants can be kept in pots to provide the most suitable soil and growing conditions.
one of the most popular genus in their choices is boronia.
many native plants are suited to  container growing.
yates have introduced the woolrich liner made from new australian wool  which they claim aids water retention and insulates the roots.
wash the pot thoroughly before  re-using.
consider first the location, whether it is in sun or shade and the effect you wish to create.
they can be moved around to take advantage of sun or shade, given a prominent position when flowering, and taken indoors when at their best.
terracotta's earthy colour suits native plants
people who live in confined inner city areas of in apartment blocks, with  little or no garden area, can enjoy a wide range of native plants.
buy a mix with australian standards accreditation, and for porous containers, choose a specialised mix, with high moisture retaining properties.
beware of cheap potting mixes - it is a false economy to buy a good plant, and expect it to grow happily in cheap potting mix.
terracotta's earthy colour suits native plants but  it is porous.
plastic containers with their own saucers can be purchased in  a wide range of styles and colours.
in the garden, roots are able to exploit a large volume of soil to obtain moisture and nutrients.
pots can be terracotta, ceramic, plastic, or wood.
wait  until the surface 1 to 2 cm of soil is dry before re-watering.
this causes the mix in the bottom of the container to turn sour, and ultimately the loss of the plant.
the most basic and the commonest is the wireframe lined with paperbark or wool.
they can add life to blank walls and fences, pergolas and verandahs, and are ideal for people with little space available for gardening or for pots.
in containers, there is a limited volume of soil providing  nutrients and moisture, and drainage and aeration are reduced compared with the  same soil in the garden.
watering incorrect watering causes many losses with container grown plants.
yates have introduced the woolrich liner made from new australian wool which they claim aids water retention and insulates the roots.
choose plants which are long-flowering or group together, either in large containers, or in coordinated smaller ones, varieties which are complementary and will bloom successively over a long period.
balconies and courtyards can be enlivened by a potted garden.
in  the garden, roots are able to exploit a large volume of soil to obtain moisture  and nutrients.
liners have a limited life but by the time they have broken down repotting is usually necessary anyway.
for this reason, mixes such asdebco terracotta and tub mix , oramgrow shrub and tub, should be used.
special uses special uses of containers include indoor or house plants and the art of bonsai.