page last updated: wollongong city  council ▪ address: wollongong city council, 41  burelli street, wollongong nsw 2500 ▪postal: locked bag  8821 wollongong dc nsw 2500 ▪ phone: (02) 4227 7111  ▪fax: (02) 4227 7277 ▪ email: council@wollongong.nsw.gov.au ▪ web: www.wollongong.nsw.gov.auabn 63 139 525 939 – gst  registered a-z directory | copyright © 201 1 | accessibility | privacy  |terms and conditions | website feedback | contact us  |  |  |
council | library | tourist parks | leisure centres | botanic garden | golf course | memorial gardens | gallery | emergency our city council services & projects building & development community facilities customer service our city council services & projects planning & development community facilities customer service awards & recognition business opportunities emergency procedures events history & demographics new residents parking & transport sister cities visitor information access to information community consultation council jobs @ council major publications & reports meetings news & announcements organisational policies & governance tenders, eoi's & quotations arts & culture business permits & services community services & programs environmental sustainability grants & sponsorships household services works & maintenance major projects revitalising city centre coastal zone study community land development regulations & policies independent hearing & assessment panel joint regional planning panel lodging development applications maps planning for the future view a development application wollongong city gallery beaches & pools community centres crematorium & cemeteries golf course libraries parks & gardens sporting & recreation leisure centres contact council book a venue submit an application
please contact council's customer service centre on (02) 4227  7111  and complete the form found below.
it's best to ensure the contents are dry before placing them loosely into the bin.
if you want to change the size of your garbage bin, complete a application for change of garbage bin size notification form and return the form with payment of $60.
your recycling service the following items belong in your yellow lid recycling bin - newspapers - paper and cardboard products eg. egg cartons, envelopes (tear out plastic windows) - magazines and advertising leaflets - glass bottles and jars (all colours) - plastic bottles with symbols r, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or rocket bottoms on base - aluminium cans - milk and juice cartons (remove lids) - steel cans including aerosol cans, remove nozzle, clean and empty paint and petfood cans.
taking some simple steps, like  setting up a compost or worm farm, can put this material to good use and keep  it out of the waste system.
using your green waste and recycling bins correctly also frees up  space in your red lid garbage bin.
plastic coated paper eg. cereal bags gummed labels thermal fax paper or carbon paper syringes or needles scrap metal - this can be recycled free of charge at waste depots oil or fuel - some types can be recycled free of charge food scraps clothing - use charity clothing bins.
opting  for an 80 litre bin instead of the largest size (240 litres) will mean a waste  levy saving of $300 per year.
submit feedback update my contact details forms & factsheets online services rates & charges property certificates online home | council | news & announcements homecouncilnews & announcements access to information community consultation council jobs @ council major publications & reports meetings news & announcements media releases community update advertisement latest news organisational policies & governance tenders, eoi's & quotations waste calendars 2010-11 council produces a financial yearly waste calendar
your green waste service the following items belong in your green lid waste bin - lawn clippings - flowers - garden prunings - leaves and twigs - branches less than 50cm in length and 7.5cm in diameter - timber off cuts (must be untreated, unpainted with no nails) less than 50cm in length and 7.5cm in diameter.
please  ensure your green waste bin is not too heavy for collection vehicles to lift.
please contact council's customer service centre on (02) 4227 7111 and complete the form found below.
handy hints for recycling - rinse out all cans, bottles and plastic containers - remove all lids - crush all bulky items to make more space - place items loosely into the bin - make sure the lid is closed and no items stick out.
figures show food and other compostable  material makes up around 50% of waste collected.
items that do not belong in your red lid barbage bin building or demolition materials including bricks, floor or roof tiles,  carpet or concrete hazardous waste including pool cleaners, chlorine, chemicals or pesticides solvents, brake fluid, oils and other liquid wastes automotive parts and other scrap metal soil and rocks syringes.
so you know what bin to place out for collection week to week waste calendar 2010 -11
items that do not belong in your yellow lid recycling bin - plastic bags - ceramics, crockery, china or pyrex cookware - broken glass - mirrors or windows - light globes or tubes - paper contaminated by food eg. pizza boxes, serviettes, paper plates - put these in your compost or red lid bin - waxed paper and waxed cardboard cartons - styrofoam containers
figures show food and other compostable material makes up around 50% of waste collected.
by choosing the smallest (80 litre) bin size, you can save money on your  waste levy each year and make a difference to our precious environment.
items that do not belong in your green lid waste bin plastic bags vegetable, fruit or other food scraps (this bin is not a composting system) chemically treated timber glass ceramic or plastic plant pots.
if your recycable bin is full bring the extra recyclables to our waste disposal depots free of charge arrange a second recycling bin by calling us keep items until the next pick up service ask your neighbour if they have room in their recycling bin.
privacy |terms and conditions | website feedback | contact us | | |
your recycling service the following items belong in your yellow lid recycling bin newspapers paper and cardboard products eg. egg cartons, envelopes (tear out plastic  windows) magazines and advertising leaflets glass bottles and jars (all colours) plastic bottles with symbols r, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or rocket bottoms on base aluminium cans milk and juice cartons (remove lids)
if you want to change the size of your garbage bin, complete a application  for change of garbage bin size notification form and return the form with  payment of $60.
change your bin size did you know you can save money and help the environment by scaling down  the size of your household waste bin?
choose between three sizes 120 litre 240 litre.
waste calendar north 2010-11 waste calendar south 2010-11 your garbage service items that belong in your red lid garbage bin - waste material that cannot be recycled or composted - plastic bags - crockery - pizza boxes, serviettes, paper plates - light globes and window glass - non-recyclable plastics and styrofoam containers.
items that do not belong in your red lid barbage bin - building or demolition materials including bricks, floor or roof tiles, carpet or concrete - hazardous waste including pool cleaners, chlorine, chemicals or pesticides - solvents, brake fluid, oils and other liquid wastes - automotive parts and other scrap metal - soil and rocks - hot ash - syringes.
if bins are too heavy they will not be emptied.
handy hints for recycling rinse out all cans, bottles and plastic containers remove all lids crush all bulky items to make more space place items loosely into the bin make sure the lid is closed and no items stick out.
council provides the yearly bin calendar for north and south suburbs across the local government area (lga).
page last updated: wollongong city council ▪ address: wollongong city council, 41 burelli street, wollongong nsw 2500 ▪postal: locked bag 8821 wollongong dc nsw 2500 ▪ phone: (02) 4227 7111 ▪fax: (02) 4227 7277 ▪ email: council@wollongong.nsw.gov.au ▪ web: www.wollongong.nsw.gov.auabn 63 139 525 939 – gst registered a-z directory | copyright © 201 1 | accessibility |
opting for an 80 litre bin instead of the largest size (240 litres) will mean a waste levy saving of $300 per year.
taking some simple steps, like setting up a compost or worm farm, can put this material to good use and keep it out of the waste system.
change your bin size did you know you can save money and help the environment by scaling down the size of your household waste bin?
do not tie, jam or place items in plastic bags.
items that do not belong in your yellow lid recycling bin plastic bags ceramics, crockery, china or pyrex cookware broken glass mirrors or windows light globes or tubes paper contaminated by food eg. pizza boxes, serviettes, paper plates - put  these in your compost or red lid bin waxed paper and waxed cardboard cartons styrofoam containers
- plastic coated paper eg. cereal bags - gummed labels - thermal fax paper or carbon paper - syringes or needles - building materials - scrap metal - this can be recycled free of charge at waste depots - oil or fuel - some types can be recycled free of charge - food scraps - clothing - use charity clothing bins.
steel cans including aerosol cans, remove nozzle, clean and empty paint  and petfood cans.
please ensure your green waste bin is not too heavy for collection vehicles to lift.
using your green waste and recycling bins correctly also frees up space in your red lid garbage bin.
if your recycable bin is full - bring the extra recyclables to our waste disposal depots free of charge - arrange a second recycling bin by calling us - keep items until the next pick up service - ask your neighbour if they have room in their recycling bin.
by choosing the smallest (80 litre) bin size, you can save money on your waste levy each year and make a difference to our precious environment.
tenders, eoi's  & quotations waste calendars 2010-11 council produces a  financial yearly waste calendar so you know what bin to place out for  collection week to week waste calendar 2010 -11
items that do not belong in your green lid waste bin - plastic bags - plastics including garden hoses - rubbish - foam and styrofoam - building materials - soil and rocks - paper and cardboard - vegetable, fruit or other food scraps (this bin is not a composting system) - chemically treated timber - painted or stained timber - glass ceramic or plastic plant pots.
your green waste service the following items belong in your green lid waste bin lawn clippings leaves and twigs branches less than 50cm in length and 7.5cm in diameter timber off cuts (must be untreated, unpainted with no nails) less than  50cm in length and 7.5cm in diameter.
council provides the yearly bin calendar for north and south suburbs across  the local government area (lga).
waste calendar north 2010-11 items that belong in your red lid garbage bin waste material that cannot be recycled or composted plastic bags pizza boxes, serviettes, paper plates light globes and window glass non-recyclable plastics and styrofoam containers.
it's best to ensure the  contents are dry before placing them loosely into the bin.
choose between three sizes - 80 litre - 120 litre - 240 litre.