as the roots become visible from the slits  they are air pruned, which makes your plants root structure grow more  internally, enabling your plants to uptake more nutrients that are applied to  produce a better yield.
these fabric pots allow more air to circulate in and  around the root zone of your plants, allowing them to breath far easier than  being contained in a regular plastic pot with no air holes in the sides.
from: £69.00 bluelab ec pen the bluelab ec pen accurately measures the water temperature and the  electrical conductivity that flows through the water when you have added the  nutrients.
from: £8.95 plant magic plus evolution plant magic plus evolution should be applied once a week to your plants  foliage throughout the vegetative stage and the first 14 days of the flowering  period, to significantly increase the number of fresh shoots that form for your  flowers or fruits to develop on and help deliver you a more bountiful harvest.
as the roots become visible from the slits they are air pruned, which makes your plants root structure grow more internally, enabling your plants to uptake more nutrients that are applied to produce a better yield.
it can fit neatly into a 2.4  x 1.2 grow tent if required and the system can store up to 100 litres of  nutrient solution to flood all the potz and a hailea v series air pump provides  all the bubbles you will need.
- hydroponics dictionary - hydroponics faq - hydroponics information & guides - hydroponics image gallery - potz systems - help - links - delivery - contact us - log
in latest products root pruning pots root pruning pots encourage the internal root structure of your plants to develop a lot more than normal pots.
rhizotonic - canna aktrivator - bio harvest bio
segmental timer - grasslin digital timer - plug & grow heavy duty timer - ecotechnics minute timer - buckets & lids - softy trim scissors - microtip trim scissors - illuminated microscope x40 - active eye green led headlight - stackable mesh dry racks - hanging mesh dry rack - measuring pipettes - measuring syringes - measuring cups & jugs - canna bottle spanner - spray bottle - essentials room clean - ona odour control - yoyo plant supports - pea netting - cable ties - electrical cable - plugs - hydroponics books - indoors with soil & hydroponics - gardening indoors with co2 - gardening indoors with cuttings - gardening indoors with rockwool - copyright © 2006 - 2012 | - contact us | - site map | - links | - terms & conditions | - privacy policy | - delivery website by green jersey greensea hydroponics | tel: 0845 602 4086 | email:info@greensea.biz
plug - irrigation hole punch - flood & drain fittings - flood & drain spacer - flood & drain top screen - irrigation micro sprinkler - ec, ph meters & solutions - bluelab ph meter - bluelab ph pen - bluelab ec pen - bluelab ec truncheon - bluelab combo meter - bluelab guardian monitor - bluelab ph probe - essentials ph meter - essentials ec meter - ph manual test kit - canna organic ph down - canna ph down - canna ph up - hydroponics ph up - hydroponics ph down - ph buffer 4 & 7 solution - ec calibration solution - ph probe refill & storage - ph probe cleaning solution - pest control products - nite nite spider mite - neem repel - fungus gnat
the design of these filters is second to none and  the charcoal used inside is the best on the planet.
this allows you to  supply your own air system for just one dwc potz or you can use a larger air  pump with a manifold fitted to supply air to as many dwc potz that you wish to  use.
sheeting - megalux black white sheeting - megalux silver mylar sheeting - megalux diffusion foil sheeting - timers, tools & accessories - grasslin 24hr
this allows you to supply your own air system for just one dwc potz or you can use a larger air pump with a manifold fitted to supply air to as many dwc potz that you wish to use.
this minute timer is fitted with a socket and a mains lead so it  requires no wiring.
from: £8.95 plant magic plus evolution plant magic plus evolution should be applied once a week to your plants foliage throughout the vegetative stage and the first 14 days of the flowering period, to significantly increase the number of fresh shoots that form for your flowers or fruits to develop on and help deliver you a more bountiful harvest.
it  can be used to run a 600w grow light and it can also be used to control many  other appliances in your grow room.
push the pins in to set the on period and  pull the pins out to set the off period, then set the timer to gmt and plug  into the mains.
from: £335.00 plug & grow heavy duty timer this 24 hour heavy duty plug timer is capable of switching high loads.
from: £185.00 root pouch fabric pots root pouch are fabric degradable pots that can be washed and reused in your garden for several years.
push the pins in to set the on period and pull the pins out to set the off period, then set the timer to gmt and plug into the mains.
if you require your extracted air to be clean of unwanted odours, we recommend you buy yourself a genuine phat filter.
from: £55.00 flood 8 potz system the flood 8 potz system is designed to be used with at least two grow lights hung above to cover the plant canopy well.
from: £185.00 root pouch fabric pots root pouch are fabric degradable pots that can be washed and reused in your  garden for several years.
from: £55.00 flood 8 potz system the flood 8 potz system is designed to be used with at least two grow  lights hung above to cover the plant canopy well.
this tells you exactly how strong the feed is, that is available to your plants.
off - sticky fly traps - fortefog bug bomb p fumer - pyrethrum 5ec organic insecticide - plant health products - plant magic plus essence - superthrive - guardian angel - bud rot stop - revive - biobizz leafcoat - block clean - guard 'n' aid rot stop - growroom reflective
bio terra professional plus - canna coco professional plus - plagron light mix - plagron royalty mix - plagron bat mix - plagron coco coir - biobizz light mix - biobizz all mix - hydroton clay pebbles - perlite - nutrients - formulex - canna start - canna hydro - canna aqua - canna terra - canna coco - canna bio - plagron terra - plagron alga - plagron coco - biobizz - plant magic plus hydro - plant magic plus soil - plant magic plus old timer - vitalink easy - vitalink max - nutrient additives & boosts - plant magic plus granules - plant magic plus catalyst - plant magic plus bio silicon - plant magic plus bio
from: £4.95 ecotechnics minute timer the ecotechnics minute timer is a most reliable unit for controlling your  pump feed times with more precision.
it can be used to run a 600w grow light and it can also be used to control many other appliances in your grow room.
stimulant - plant magic plus root stimulator - plagron roots - biobizz root juice - vitalink bio plus - scalpel - plant cloche - grow lights - eurowing grow lights - eurowing digital grow lights - cooltube air cooled grow
drs120 - secret jardin dark room drs150 - grow tent fittings - grow tent kits - hydroponics 400w grow tent kit - hydroponics 600w grow tent kit - hydroponics 1200w grow tent kit - hydroponics 2400w grow tent kit - organic 400w grow tent kit - organic 600w grow tent kit - organic 1200w grow tent kit - organic 2400w grow tent kit - soil 400w grow tent kit - soil 600w grow tent kit - soil 1200w grow tent kit - soil 2400w grow tent kit - coco 400w grow tent kit - coco 600w grow tent kit - coco 1200w grow tent kit - coco 2400w grow tent kit - aeroponics 600w grow tent kit - hydroponics starter kits - dwc 1 potz 250w starter kit - drip 1 potz 250w starter kit - nft gt205 250w starter kit - hydroponics discount deals - canna terra discount deal - canna bio terra discount deal - 600w grow light kit - essentials ec ph meters & buffers - biobizz organic discount deal - growing media - jiffy peat pellets - root riot - rockwool propagation cubes - grodan rockwool sbs cubes - grodan rockwool grow blocks - grodan rockwool hugo blocks - grodan rockwool vital slabs - plant magic plus soil supreme - canna terra professional plus - canna
if you require your  extracted air to be clean of unwanted odours, we recommend you buy yourself a  genuine phat filter.
it has 16 settings for the on and off  periods, with the on periods in minutes and the off periods in 15 minute  segments.
bio-wetter is also an anti-stress agent, helping plants to recover from any shock.
not only can this be used as a wetting agent for foliar feeding,  it has the added benefit of being used as a soil drench for softening hard  compacted soil.
the ecotechnics minute timer is a most reliable unit for controlling your pump feed times with more precision.
the design of these filters is second to none and the charcoal used inside is the best on the planet.
it can fit neatly into a 2.4 x 1.2 grow tent if required and the system can store up to 100 litres of nutrient solution to flood all the potz and a hailea v series air pump provides all the bubbles you will need.
lights - mantis grow lights - mantis digital grow lights - powerplant eurowing reflector - ecotechnics cooltube reflector - powerplant aerowing reflector - ecotechnics diamond reflector - maxibright supernova reflector - powerplant mantis reflector - powerplant daylite ballasts - maxibright digilight digital ballasts - lumatek digital ballasts - compact fluorescent lamps - cfl lamp hanger - sun mate cfl reflector - sun mate twin cfl reflector - lightwave t5 fluorescent lights - maxibright propagation lights - grow light accessories - powerplant hps lamps - powerplant metal halide lamps - sunmaster dual spectrum lamps - philips hps lamps - sylvania hps grolux lamps - compact fluorescent lamps 55w - lighting reflector heatshield - eazi roll reflector hangers - jack chain - reflector cable & iec connection - e40 ceramic lamp socket - powerstar light contactors - powerstar pro light contactors - iec reflector connectors - growroom ventilation & co2 - phat filter extraction kits - phat filter acoustic extraction kits - systemair rvk inline fans - acoustic box fans - phat filters - primair twin fan speed controller - sms fan speed controller - sms smart fan speed controller - sms twin fan speed controller - tubular grow room heaters - wall & floor fans - clip
from: £54.99 flood 4 potz system the flood 4 potz system is ideal for growers who wish to use just one 600w grow light hung above.
from: £12.00 bluelab ph pen the bluelab ph pen accurately measures the ph level in your nutrient  solution and also the temperature, enabling you to keep your solution at the  optimum level so that your plants can maximise their nutrient uptake and  thrive.
from: £1.00 dwc 1 potz system this great little hydroponics dwc system is now available with or without the air pump and stones, with the drain tap also optional.
this pen is fully waterproof and has a clear backlit lcd screen to  make viewing easier.
from: £15.00 phat filters phat filters are the best carbon filters available for removing unwanted  odours from your grow room.
from: £1.00 dwc 1 potz system this great little hydroponics dwc system is now available with or without  the air pump and stones, with the drain tap also optional.
0845 602 4086 info@greensea.biz home - online shop - about us - latest news - testimonials - contact us - hydroponics?
from: £0.75 plant magic plus bio wetter plant magic plus bio-wetter is an organic wetting agent extracted from the  yukka plant.
this system can store up to 50 litres of nutrient  solution ready to flood the 10 litre mesh baskets above and then it can drain  through special filters that prevent your roots from entering the pipes and  blocking them.
this minute timer is fitted with a socket and a mains lead so it requires no wiring.
this pen is fully waterproof and has a clear backlit lcd screen to make viewing easier.
it has 16 settings for the on and off periods, with the on periods in minutes and the off periods in 15 minute segments.
from: £4.95 ecotechnics minute timer
a compact pen that displays the ph level and water tempreature on an lcd backlit screen.
wetter - plant magic plus evolution - plant magic plus veg boost - plant magic plus bloom boost - plant magic plus flush - cannazym - canna pk 13/14 - canna boost accelerator - canna bio boost - canna flush - plagron green sensation - plagron phyt-amin - plagron enzymes - plagron bat guano - biobizz fish mix - biobizz top max - biobizz bio heaven - biobizz alg-a-mic - vitalink buddy - vitalink fulvic - vitalink biopac - vitalink foliar - liquid silicon - liquid oxygen - guanokalong - halo - ghe ripen - vintage bat guano - bio link plus - powdered bud blood - organic b - tarantula - propagation - aeroponics 12 site propagator - aeroponics 20 site propagator - aeroponics 105 site propagator - aeroponics neoprene collars - unheated plant propagator - heated plant propagator - plant clone kit 24 - plant clone kit 48 - clonex rooting gel - nitrozyme - canna rhizotonic - canna bio
from: £12.00 bluelab ph pen the bluelab ph pen accurately measures the ph level in your nutrient solution and also the temperature, enabling you to keep your solution at the optimum level so that your plants can maximise their nutrient uptake and thrive.
lights - cooltube digital grow lights - aerowing air cooled grow lights - aerowing digital grow lights - diamond grow lights - diamond digital grow lights - supernova grow lights - supernova digital grow
from: £15.00 phat filters phat filters are the best carbon filters available for removing unwanted odours from your grow room.
from: £69.00 bluelab ec pen the bluelab ec pen accurately measures the water temperature and the electrical conductivity that flows through the water when you have added the nutrients.
these fabric pots allow more air to circulate in and around the root zone of your plants, allowing them to breath far easier than being contained in a regular plastic pot with no air holes in the sides.
not only can this be used as a wetting agent for foliar feeding, it has the added benefit of being used as a soil drench for softening hard compacted soil.
tent - green room gr120 grow tent - green room gr240n
this tells you exactly how strong the feed is, that is available to  your plants.
grow tent - green room gr240 grow tent - secret jardin dark room drs60 - secret jardin dark room drs90 - secret jardin dark room
on fan - oscillating pedestal fan - thermometer hygrometer - nutrient growroom thermometer - flexible silencers - rigid silencers - aluminium ducting - acoustic insulated ducting - vinyl duct tape - aluminium foil duct tape - fast clamp - jubilee clip - equal t section - equal y section - ducting reducer - back draft shutter - ducting connector - wall spigot - ecotechnics unis co2 controller - co2 layflat release pipe - 10" rvk fan mounting bracket - pumps, air pumps & heaters - hydor seltz pumps - hydor theo heaters - maxi jet mc pumps - maxi jet mj pumps - mj pump filters - hailea hx water pumps - hailea air pumps - hailea v series air pumps - hailea air pump manifolds - air line tubing - air stones - irrigation fittings & pipe - irrigation pipe - torsino hosepipe - irrigation inline filter - irrigation pipe reducers - irrigation barbed elbow - irrigation barbed equal t - irrigation barbed stop end - irrigation barbed flow tap - irrigation barbed connector - irrigation outlet connector - irrigation drippers & stakes - irrigation drip line - irrigation drip line nipple - irrigation goof
bio-wetter is also an anti-stress agent, helping plants to  recover from any shock.
a compact pen that displays the ph level and water tempreature on an  lcd backlit screen.
this system can store up to 50 litres of nutrient solution ready to flood the 10 litre mesh baskets above and then it can drain through special filters that prevent your roots from entering the pipes and blocking them.
from: £0.75 plant magic plus bio wetter plant magic plus bio-wetter is an organic wetting agent extracted from the yukka plant.
from: £59.00 our products - aero potz systems - aero 4 potz system - aero 8 potz system - aero 16 potz system - aero 24 potz system - aero potz top lid & potz - aero & drip header return potz - potz systems drain fittings - drip potz systems - drip 1 potz system - drip 6 potz system - drip 12 potz system - drip 24 potz system - drip 36 potz system - drip 48 potz system - drip 60 potz system - drip potz stand saucer & filter - dwc potz systems - dwc 1 potz system - dwc 4 potz system - dwc 8 potz system - dwc 16 potz system - dwc 24 potz system - dwc header potz - dwc potz top lid & potz - flood potz systems - flood 1 potz system - flood 2 potz system - flood 4 potz system - flood 8 potz system - flood potz & basket - flood potz tanks & top plates - nft systems - nft gt205 system - nft gt424 system - nft gt604 system - nft gt901 system - nft gt100 system - nft md601 system - nft md603 system - nft multi duct tray stands - nft multi duct water tanks - nft delivery tubes - nft spreader mat - wilma pot systems - wilma 4 pot system - wilma big 4 pot system - wilma 8 pot system - wilma 16 pot system - plant pots, trays & tanks - square plant pots - round plant pots
latest products root pruning pots root pruning pots encourage the internal root structure of your plants to  develop a lot more than normal pots.
from: £54.99 flood 4 potz system the flood 4 potz system is ideal for growers who wish to use just one 600w  grow light hung above.
from: £335.00 plug & grow heavy duty timer this 24 hour heavy duty plug timer is capable of switching high loads.
- root pruning pots - root pouch fabric pots - plant pot saucers - garland trays - water tanks - water butts & stands - aquatrays - mesh pots - grow tents - green room gr100 grow