remember, never use any kind of purchased water to make tincture.
begin by pouring salt and iodine ("povidone" iodine, topical antiseptic, is available in most drug stores) on the mess and letting it stand for 5 minutes before cleaning it up.
your immune system can keep up with them  quite easily provided you don't have a mold in you at the same time.
in fact, if any family member should accidentally eat something poisonous, drinking cornstarch will quickly mop it up and keep it stuck so it can't enter your tissues.
here is the recipe: parsley water: cook a big bunch of fresh parsley in a quart of water for  3 minutes.
the pulse reflects the heartbeat.
choose any one; they need not be in order.
by selecting wise habits your improved  lifestyle pays you back for the rest of your life.
getting well after cancer
this fits a lot more oxygen, o2, than round balls would.
if you deprive yourself of the "good" normal greases that come  from plant or animal sources which would ordinarily make up 25% of your  calories, of course you'll crave grease.
cook with onions and  oregano for flavoring.
lemon or lime indulge yourself.
of course, it all enters the houses anyway.
moving into the summer  kitchen got you away from the accumulation of filth from winter!
the silent cervix 112 menopausal symptoms, hot flushes, pms 113 infertility 117 nausea 121 prostate problems 124 side pain 128 midabdomen pain, stomach pain 131 stomach ulcer 132 hiatal hernia 133 respiratory illness 134 asthma 134 bronchitis, croup, chronic cough 140 breast pain 142 breast sensitivity 143 breast lumps 144 heart pain 146 slow pulse/syncope (passing out) 149 chest pain 149 upper back pain 150 shoulder pain 151 upper arm pain 153 elbow pain 154 wrist pain 154 thumb pain and hand pain 155 finger pain 155 back of neck pain 156 front neck pain 156 temporal mandibular joint (tmj) problems 157
aflatoxin what is so important about molds?
after we are infected with it this way, we can give it to each other through blood, saliva, semen, and breast milk, which means kissing on the mouth, sex, nursing, and child-bearing.
serve thoroughly chilled.
how many of us will die trying?
feeling comfortable
launder the sheets and towels yourself at a laundromat with borax and/or washing soda.
we can say no to rotten moldy food.
then your  personal help.
if an elderly person refuses or can't wear dentures, provide food that is soft and without chunks since this decides whether the stomach can digest it.
the lethal dose for a man  by ingestion is 0.5-1.0 gram.
this leads to pancreas damage, invites pancreatic fluke infestation, and typically results in diabetes.
formaldehyde as in foam bedding and new clothing.
45 only unpolluted tea tree oil i found.
bring these two items to your loved one at the "home" if it cannot be provided regularly and reliably.
escaping from dead parasites!
to keep out mice, walk all around your house, stuffing holes and cracks with steel wool.
t-2 toxin t-2 toxin is a mold i have found in all cases of high blood pressure and kidney disease.
maintenance parasite program you are always picking up parasites!
it does take a whole morning to make pasta or some ethnic dish.
these sockets never fully heal.
find butter that is not  wrapped in foil and is not salted.
that creates a  terrible deficiency of oxygen.
cavitations  are visible in a panoramic x-ray that may not be seen in a full mouth series.
don't fill the house with smoke when stoking.
a day and watch your sugar  craving shrink.
the stomach is the weak point of the digestive process for the elderly because  nearly all don't produce enough acid to get the job done.
45 only unpolluted tea tree oil i  found.
a dry socket (really an infected socket) is a common result.
accept the charge with humor and dignity - as long as  you're not expected to eat any more spoiled, moldy food.
if the pulse is quite high, over 100 perhaps, this will wear the heart out much sooner than necessary.
whether it's coffee, cigarets, beer or lipstick, say "that is something i can't buy for you; it's against my principles".
after three weeks, repeat with fresh herbs.
make  crisp things in the oven from left over bakery goods.
vegetable matter, although high in calcium, does  not give you available calcium either, unless you buy a juicer and make  vegetable juice out of it.
better kitchen habits once a day,  sterilize the sponge or cloth you use to wipe up the table, counter tops and  sink.
the meal should always include something sour to curdle the  milk.
the following toxins can be present in any organ!
not everybody gets all of these effects.
sometimes it has a slight odor at first, which may warn you,  but most pathogens do not have an odor!
store bought jams  are sweeter and brighter in color but strangely low in flavor and often  indistinguishable from each other.
only metal-free plastic should be put back in your mouth.
let  over-compliance enthuse you.
you haven't eaten since two o'clock, but you won't feel hungry.
if it is lower than 60, a medicine may be at fault.
killing these three invaders (heartworm, loa loa, staphylococcus aureus)  should cure an irregular heart beat immediately (within a day).
mix liquid ingredients and add gradually, while tossing until thoroughly mixed.
persons test negative to hiv shortly  after the fluke and its stages are eliminated.
kojic acid kojic  acid is a mycotoxin that appears to be responsible for wood alcohol build up.
the liver is full of tubes (biliary tubing) that deliver the bile to one large tube (the common bile duct).
this bit of progress  will put him or her solidly on your side.
you smell nothing and feel nothing.
how did a pollutant as dangerous as benzene get to be in our very food?
touching the infected person is not very damaging either; the pathogens can't get through our skins and since we wash hands before eating we are not at great risk of infection this way.
add honey, and salt while it's  cooking-this raises the boiling temperature and detoxifies more.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++all malignancies have the same two fundamental causes: +++intestinal flukes and propyl alcohol.
then we eat them along with our food.
remember parasites are all around us.
request  that family members zap themselves and take at least one 2 tsp.
whether it's coffee, cigarets, beer or  lipstick, say "that is something i can't buy for you; it's against my  principles".
this is not so bizarre.
brown rice is especially moldy.
i find it mostly in pasta.
we land in a  debacle such as the present one, where large segments of society are ill with  uncontrollable behavior (called crime), suffer from hormone imbalances and  sexual disturbances, are sidelined by chronic fatigue and new illness.
magnesium oxide, 300 mg., is another must.
if an elderly person refuses or can't wear dentures, provide food that is  soft and without chunks since this decides whether the stomach can digest it.
yes if you grind it yourself and add 1/4 tsp.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++walking and liver cleansing  are the most health-promoting +++activities you can do for your loved one.
(similarly, if you have a lot of the regular strength left and want to use it in place of extra strength, simply take four times as much.)
sea salt flats are often roosting places for sea gulls.
(no croutons or bacon bits, though.)
epstein barre virus (ebv) is a mysterious disease because in spite of  building up antibodies, it attacks repeatedly.
go to sleep, you may fail to get stones out if you don't.
homemade yogurt is fine.
close off the  ventilation between utility room and the rest of your house.
don't let your elderly person choose whether they will walk that day.
- a young man needs "his" beer to enjoy a cook-out.
the metal does come out of the porcelain!
rolled oats never showed molds in my testing, although they have their characteristic fungi, too.
you have more energy and increased sense of well being.
now you  are getting lab-made (hydrogenated) grease with a non-biological structure, and  loaded with the carcinogen nickel.
eating the dust off the tables, inhaling the dust, and eating off surfaces wiped by the kitchen sponge happens to everyone.
dr. jerome: if your dentist tells you that mercury and other metals will  not cause any problems, you will not be able to change his or her mind.
their previous symptoms return.
deli  food and restaurant salads carry salmonellas and shigellas, too.
where did they come from?
soup only if nothing else is available.
pure vegetable glycerin into a bottle cap.
this can be  very rewarding if they are still able to communicate and distill their life  experience into wisdom for you.
be present so the question does not turn into "will smoking a few cigarets once in a while kill me?"
they are on your kitchen sponge, and in any food or dishes that stand uncovered anywhere in the home.
add the herbs to the boiling water and turn down to simmer, covered, for 20 minutes.
all dirt brought into the house by shoes gets circulated throughout the house by forced air systems of heating or cooling.
you may be familiar, but so very helpless against this microscopic invader.
attach a carbon filter to the shower head (see the sources chapter).
let salt-hunger be your signal to do a kidney  cleanse (page 549).
if the food is toxic, suspect: food molds bacteria don't eat that food any more.
just make a guess and begin  somewhere.
you can have all these killed in a day, without side  effects and your heart is once more free to beat regularly.
of course, there is no defense if somebody should cough or sneeze at the table.
originaly published at:  http://healthalternative.freeyellow.com/cfad.htm here are the the parts of the book that are only available as images  (.gif's) : front cover page 16, page 17 "bandwidth of bioradiation of animals" page 18 "bioradiation of typical pathogens", page 19  "building a zapper" page 20, page 21 page 22 "zapper schematic", page 23 page 24, page 25 back cover
lesson thirteen 493 lesson fourteen 493
deli food and restaurant salads carry salmonellas and shigellas, too.
teach children to cough and sneeze into a suitable collecting place like a tissue, not their hands.
drink one pint upon rising in the morning, the other pint in the afternoon sometime.
or to turn a  page of the telephone directory.
the inside of the neck line for dresses.
if your problem is severe, only cook them twice.
again, you will not find adenovirus beeping its characteristic frequency out of your mite specimen.
) honey custard salad of lettuce, 1 glass water water tomato, olives, avocado milk with homemade dressing bread with butter ice-cream (optional) 1/2 cup vegetable juice water milk day 6 egg and homemade homemade peanut gourmet pizza: home biscuit with honey and butter sandwich baked bread topped with butter 1/2 cup vegetable juice olive oil, sliced milk milk tomato or homemade fruit juice water sauce, grated cheese, (homemade) sardines or anchovies, water chopped vegetables, garlic and onion salad milk water day 7 pancakes salmon sandwich stir-fry vegetables:
figure 46: every brand of popcorn and corn chips i tested had  zearalenone contamination.
again, mood will improve dramatically when diuretic drugs are removed for your loved one.
one current use for thallium is in arctic/antarctic thermostats.
80 syncrometer parts list.
oxygen must first jump onto its raft, the hemoglobin, in the lungs.
(dangerous properties of industrial materials, 7th ed.
but we can get  ourselves out of the path of the falling human tide.
that is too much stress for your body.
90 chart of bandwidths for organism families.
do additional zapping as time permits until the bowel program has stemmed  the invasion.
cold cereal, hot cereal, bread, crackers, cookies,  rice, other grains, fresh fruit, store bought fruit juice, nuts, syrups, pasta,  honey?
use genuine butter,  only, or a homemade sour cream dressing (see recipes).
when the brain problems are corrected for an elderly person, be sure to  relate the improvement to him or her.
the  thermometer does not tell all.
it will heal beautifully if you let it.
remember, the simpler the treatment, the better.
figure out how long it should last and write the date for replacement on the outside of it for your own convenience.
you need to do the kidney cleanse for six weeks to get good results, longer for severe problems.
since tumors are often large, many centimeters in  diameter, and toxins do not occupy much space, there is much unidentified  substance.
the kidney herbs (page 549), at half dose level (1/2 cup a day instead of a whole cup) can be given daily for three weeks and then on alternate days indefinitely.
as metal corrodes your body absorbs it!
salt your own butter, using aluminum-free salt.
kill them and go off commercial beverages that may contain wood  alcohol.
bacteria and viruses are soon to follow.
your fatigue can vanish.
unfortunately, the shot itself may contain traces of this harmful solvent-take a sample home for testing.)
food should taste good.
put a filter on your faucets.
find one that works best for you: vitamin c water.
both heartworm and loa loa are very easy to kill with a zapper and both  are very easy to pick up again.
+++a weight-loss diet must wait at least two years.
don't even use soap unless it is homemade soap (see the recipes chapter) or borax straight from the box.
day 4: take 4 drops in l/2 cup water  same as above.
use celery, lettuce, cabbage, cucumber, beet, squash, tomato, everything raw that you normally have in your refrigerator.
this brings relief to the heart because its  work is easier.
there's just one catch, if the new found interest in communication  can't be expressed.
carpets were intended to help keep filth out of the air.
potatoes (not overcooked), peeled to make sure there are no blemishes (contain mold and pesticide) can be cooked with the beans.
if your garage is under your house, you cannot keep the pollution from entering your home.
also keep a bit of dry washing soda in a saucer by the sink for scouring.
you may add more water or honey or a spice to make it more palatable.
but you can reinfect with a single soft grape.
tooth ache 158 throat pain 159 eye pain 160 macular degeneration 162 headache and migraines 162 earache 168 ear noises and ringing 169 scalp pain 171 non-painful diseases 173 diabetes 173 prediabetic 178 diabetes of childhood 178 herpes 179 fatigue 182 skin problems 188
before the dizziness a blood pressure or blood sugar problem.
you use more and more propyl alcohol.
aflatoxin reaches the liver and simply kills portions of it.
find an alternative dentist.
regular dish detergents, including health brands, are now polluted with pcbs.
start drinking water  with lemon juice or vinegar and honey. - bacon.
again, mood will  improve dramatically when diuretic drugs are removed for your loved one.
remember everything corrodes and everything seeps, so  amalgams must too.
get rid of their breeding places: beds, cloth covered chairs and soft sofas.
some worms are actually pink from absorbing  your b12!
they do more harm than  good.
but when benzopyrenes are added, the total is entirely too much for  the liver and it begins to accumulate in your thymus.
when the gallbladder is removed the acute attacks are gone, but the bursitis and other pains and digestive problems remain.
this is extremely infectious and hazardous.
the pot of soaking walnuts should not be refrigerated.
more  flavorings are added.
to answer each question, test the item using your syncrometer searching technique.
remember propyl alcohol is also called propanol,  isopropanol, isopropyl alcohol and rubbing alcohol.
1 cup fresh lemon juice, 1 cup honey, 11/2 quarts water.
yet another method is to buy vodka that is 100 proof.
switch to bakery breads or homemade.
when into and out of the bathroom is a different performance suspect  chlorine.
change the recipes to avoid processed ingredients.
what this means is, in animals, "zear" looks likes extra estrogen to the body.
first it molds; then bacterial  action sets in.
go to see for yourself what chelation is all  about.
the hiv virus infects us during the time the intestinal fluke, fasciolopsis buskii, is being hosted.
it is much healthier to be warmly dressed and breathe cool air than to be lightly dressed in an 80 degrees f room.
tremor 312 tremor remedies 313 weakness 317 heart disease 318  heart/kidney relationship 320 diuretics 321 feeling comfortable 322 hearing  loss 324 insomnia 326 healthful habits 326 not old yet 328 super longevity 329
they dwell on dying, though, because they know it isn't far  away and wonder what to do about it.
the computer age would make communication possible.
use them minimally and line them with tissue or paper towel.
they are forced to eat carrots, peas, and other  vegetables; vegetables that taste terrible, (modern agriculture has ruined the  flavor).
over 50 case histories of cured hiv victims are the subject of another  book (the cure for hiv and aids by the same author, promotion publishing, 1993)
(dangerous properties of industrial materials,  7th ed.
the pulse should be between 60 and 80 beats per minute.
if the fluke eggs and other stages go through their development in your breast it can become breast cancer.
52 packaged herb tea is moldy and polluted with solvents.
your immune system would be able to gobble them all up if they weren't gagged by the food mold you ate.
check your dwelling for uncovered fiberglass.
many sick persons have 50 or more symptoms to start out!
so learn to use a syncrometer, it will save your life.
living to age 140 is not living  forever.
only then can your body heal.
abstract electricity can now be used to kill bacteria, viruses and parasites in  minutes, not days or weeks as antibiotics require.
and everyone "catches" colds.
notice in the picture how many have embedded unidentified objects.
it begins to plague women much  earlier-after childbirth, for instance.
it is in the public interest to know when a single bottle of a single product tests positive to a serious pollutant.
this makes them  work together.
honey can be warmed and treated the same way (1/4 tsp.
it is wisest to check this possibility with a dentist before doing weeks of other testing.
zearalenone can induce thymic atrophy and macrophage activation.
corn starch (see sources) 1 cup water boil starch and water until clear, about one minute.
since a diabetic's tissues are not  absorbing sugar, they crave it more and more.
for this reason, milk should never be reduced in fat content (not less than 2%).
if the  body acid level is too high, help the kidneys excrete it by adding more water  to the diet and more minerals to neutralize the acid.
this leads me to believe it is their waste products, namely ammonia, that really causes insomnia.
don't sit on the floor at a gathering.
copyright notice the cure for all diseases copyright 1995 by hulda regehr clark, ph.d.,  n.d. all rights reserved.
it is advantageous to kill bacteria and viruses to some extent every day.
pour it into the other palm and do the remaining fingernails.
do not  use black strap molasses as an iron source, or any molasses, since it contains  toxic molds.
- cigarets have lead, mercury, nickel and tobacco mosaic virus.
table scraps would be much less toxic  for them than their commercial feed.
diet  clean-up 420 breakfast 420 lunch 422 supper 423 beverages 424 horrors
use this motivation to acquire the taste for new foods and  beverages.
53 three safe flavorings.
your loved one should not be the one who must  suffer from medical politics.
lysine (crush tablets) 2 tbs.
the  morning blood sugar test is essential to keep track of changing circumstances.
if you have gas and bloating, pour yourself l/2 glass of water.
if our food was doused with sugar for breakfast, lunch and supper, we wouldn't care much about what was under the sugar either.
the real culprit is  parasite invaders and toxic pollutants.
this is just the property we want to make it safe for use.
tapeworm stage or mites the fascinating story of how we really "catch" a cold kept me  spellbound for a year.
lead was not less  toxic then, we were just less informed!
kill your flukes immediately.
1 peeled pear, raw, with whipping cream.
43 grilled food has benzopyrenes as do hot dogs and "smoke flavored" foods.
many common bacteria, especially staphylococcus aureus, choose the heart as their favorite location.
it can be detoxified  by adding vitamin c but takes longer, about 10 minutes.
frightening, perhaps, as cancer, but entirely avoidable.
of  course, there is no defense if somebody should cough or sneeze at the table.
this alone could drop the pulse  from 120 to 80 in a few days.
see a dentist who can find and clean cavitations.
even after cooking, it  may be toxic.
in breast cancer, especially, you find that metals from dentalware have  dissolved and accumulated in the breast.
better housekeeping throw out as much of the wall to wall carpeting as you can bear to part with.
the hearing deficit in an elderly person is always much greater than they or you realize.
there is no fruit or vegetable juice except homemade, and not much of that because it crowds out milk and water.
i hope you do, and i hope you find that the food in your area is cleaner than mine!
zearalenone ("zear") and aflatoxin both have immune lowering  effects.
keep only the borax, washing soda, white distilled vinegar and homemade soap.
if  you can walk into the bathroom blindfolded and know you're in the bathroom,  it's not clean enough.
please feel free to consult with your physician or other health care provider.
if you want to keep them a month or more, add 1 tbs.
unfortunately, this will not kill shigellas; follow the bowel program (page 546) to get them.
often the elderly prefer it this way in order not to bother with pill taking at meal time.
do different exercises.
raising potassium levels slows the pulse.
when golden, remove and let cool.
when you find the culprit, you not only will be stopping the tremor, you will be improving a lot of other conditions along the way.
do you do root canals?
pick out all dark colored, shriveled bits.
thyme and fenugreek, together, make a flavorful combination you can purchase in capsules.
fenugreek and thyme are the most beneficial of the common  cooking herbs.
some of these antiseptics are substances you must avoid!
if your loved one is  already on a pill for beginning diabetes, take this as your challenge never to  let it get worse.
borax inhibits the bacterial enzyme urease
or freeze half of it (take the potatoes out first).
get your essential minerals from foods, not cookware.
in 3/4 cup water now.
the complete name of cavitations is alveolar cavitational osteopathosis.
you may then go back and complete treatment over the next 6 to 12 months.
the healthiest house is no house.
that infection can be the  cause of tinnitus, tmj, arthritis, neck pain, loss of balance, and heart  attacks!
don't wrap potatoes in foil to bake, coat with butter or olive oil.
to satisfy this craving  without endangering their blood sugar regulation.
make sure the temperature suits the person.
make marmalade the same way, slicing the fruit and peel thinly.
health isn't just being free of sickness.
your teeth will whiten noticeably in 6 months.
the  brain is simply not getting enough oxygen and food to work right.
you will not be infectious to anybody.
day 3: take 3 drops in l/2 cup water same as above.
production and storage methods must be better regulated so as to be fail-safe.
keep your toxic things in the attic.
they may be harboring a few parasite stages in +++their intestinal tract without having symptoms.
the cream is  necessary to improve calcium absorption.
so the toxic effects of a dose of aflatoxin aren't even  noticeable for several weeks!
is there a new hair dresser?
the asparagus can be fresh or canned.
they may not have requested this, out of a sense of guilt or masochism, or plain dementia.
see instructions on bottle.
this strength is necessary to push the  blood into the farthest "corners" of the body, especially the hands  and feet, and warm them up!
it is frustrating to cook "a fine meal" for the family and find  everybody likes it except ms. picky.
remember everything corrodes and everything seeps, so amalgams must too.
grocery store ground cloves do not work!
their effects on the body from dentalware have not been studied.
let the salesperson use his or her special talents to sell your loved one on hearing aids.
air pollution improve the quality of the air by lowering the pollution level.
if they do,  they probably don't have enough experience in the use of non-metal composites.)
complete instructions for building and using this device are contained in this book.
no diabetes, no high blood pressure, no cancer, no hiv/aids, no migraines, no lupus and so on!
the secret is to talk to the patients themselves.
popular stain resistance treatments contain arsenic.
- pancakes or  waffles with artificial maple syrup made with brown sugar and vitamin c. - 1  cup herb tea with vitamin c, cinnamon, or other spice.
ninety percent or more of dental offices will not be able to answer any of the above questions correctly.
but it only makes us sicker if we harbor molds.
what eliminated them was the cutting of long hair as a  societal practice.
300 mg measure 1/4 cup of each root and set them to soak, together in 10 cups of cold tap water, using a non-metal container and a non-metal lid (a dinner plate will do).
by mixing spoiled food with good food, by adding flavors and changing  the food consistency, parents can't distinguish substandard foods, nor teach  their children to.
peanut butter (store bought) and other nut butters can't be detoxified by  adding vitamin c due to the mixing problem, even if you stir it in thoroughly.
a plastic pitcher (not clear plastic or flexible plastic) with a carbon pack fitted into the top is best.
a young athlete may have a slow pulse legitimately, due to having a very strong efficient heart, but your elderly person does not fit this category.
as soon as you open a cereal grain, put the  whole box in a plastic bag to keep moisture out.
try to avoid them at night, though, so the skin can breathe freely.
this doesn't obligate you to carry out any of their wishes.
all your hard work and successes are culminating in one grand failure!
propyl alcohol facilitates the intestinal fluke but is toxic to us.
it would pick up something: some little particle of dust or dirt.
rolled oats never showed  molds in my testing, although they have their characteristic fungi, too.
don't eat cold cereal; it has numerous  solvents and molds.
make sure all fragrances are removed from the air, even though family members "like" them.
try this diet on yourself if you have a temper or crying spells or frequent colds!
mix well 1/4 tsp powdered vitamin c  with each new (1 lb.) box of brown sugar.
even if you do not suffer from insomnia now, you may when you kill parasites.
but you can break into this cycle and get it all reversed again.
for this reason, it is important to have air conditioning during the hot season.
it belongs to other parasites.
this only "controlled" them.
compare notes with others; maybe it is common, maybe it's a rare one.
buy such small quantities that you can  afford to throw it all away when you are done with them.
you rub the rock under your arms.
black cherry concentrate, heat to boiling and simmer for 20 minutes.
in two hours they are already multiplying in the greatest culture system of all: your body!
or to have a handy towel hanging from  the refrigerator handle.
all your hard work and successes are culminating  in one grand failure!
turmeric and fennel are herbs also used as cooking spices.
i never see coxsackie viruses without the bacteria, bacteroides fragilis, and i never see bacteroides fragilis without ascaris (a roundworm.)
stop the parasite program and kidney herbs, too, the day before.
if you have been quite ill, move far enough south to avoid heating and cooling.
your malignancy is  stopped.
and where i found them...
you wouldn't slice a tomato or egg directly on the  counter top.
- every room in the house gets cleaned.
naturally, one would not leave such medicine within the reach of children.
but you should not spend more than two hours in the dentist's chair  at any one time.
now you need only wait for your tissues to decongest and stop making  mucous, etc.
and how  much better the sleep is at night.
is  it the nerve that ages then, and decides death for each of us?
house builders and contractors are also reliable in their gas leak detection.
crackers are notoriously moldy.
missing two beats in a row certainly can produce a weak or "sinking" spell.
you have to find out  why you are so short, in spite of eating it.
oxygen gets to the brain on a carrier system of tiny rafts called red blood cells.
for this reason, milk  should never be reduced in fat content (not less than 2%).
this depends on removing benzene from your body  and keeping it out of your body.
it is free of pain, free of medicine,  free of shots and doctor visits, free of dementia, free of the dreadful  weakness that demands so much help.
cadmium is five times  as toxic as lead, and is strongly linked to high blood pressure.
as soon as the beat is regular and under 100 per minute,  reduce your heart drugs.
only bile from the liver is pea green.
you may be keeping them glossy by the constant polishing action of  your toothpaste.
add raisins that were soaked for 5 minutes in vitamin c water.
when they take over the  region near the top of the stomach, it weakens the esophageal sphincter and  food keeps coming back up a bit - a most uncomfortable development, especially  after supper or when lying down.
you don't want a salmonella infection added to your cold.
don't feed pets  at the table, keep them outdoors during mealtime.
my own super c-pop 516 half and half 516  buttermilk-c 516 food recipes 516 daily foods 517 two granolas 518 peanut  butter 519
why are we still using stainless steel cookware when it contains 18% chromium and 8% nickel?
if rules are sure to be broken, calculate it into the rest of the day so you can compensate for it.
stop using any new food, supplement, or body product, even if it is a health variety, and see if it goes away.
increase the oxygen delivery system to the brain by raising hemoglobin  levels.
this lets the dentist see impacted teeth, root fragments, bits of mercury buried in the bone and deep infections.
if more bread is requested, provide a wheat-free, corn-free variety; but  limit bread eating to "after main dish" eating.
flush out the alcohol with two pitchers of  water.
figure 40: products with propyl alcohol.
the green ones get their color from being coated with bile.
it is caused by the same parasite but the solvent is  benzene instead of propyl alcohol.
fried potatoes with 2 eggs (use only butter, olive oil or lard), 1 cup hot  or cold milk.
it would clutter the planet.
the counter and table top have on them whatever is in the kitchen dust and on the wipe cloth.
but no blemish, no cut, no dark spot inside  may be left for you to eat.
it should not have any bruises.
put the powder mix in a plastic (not styrofoam) cup, add honey and stir until you get a paste.
you may be able to purchase fresh ground cloves that are already encapsulated; they should be about 500 mg.
356curing the common cold 357 tapeworm stage or mites 357 molds and colds 360  the cure 363 mold free diet 365 prevention 368 curing symptoms 369 true origins  of viruses
if you deprive yourself of the "good" normal greases that come from plant or animal sources which would ordinarily make up 25% of your calories, of course you'll crave grease.
you have given yourself your next  sore throat, or cold or headache.
even inside cupboards, store them upside  down.
the most common parasite heart invaders are dirofilaria, heartworm  "of dogs" and loa loa, another small filaria worm.
do not use the hot water from an electric hot water heater for cooking or drinking.
this is the saddest, most tragic part of your instructions.
less sweets are consumed if you dip the fruit rather than  pour the sauce over.
getting rid of  mites we do not tolerate external parasites like bedbugs, lice, ticks, leeches.
this includes parkinson's cases.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ the secret is in the varied actions of different herbs.
the risk is greater than the benefit.
the brain and body need every pulse of blood sent  out right on time.
the alcohol in the  tincture can make you slightly woozy for several minutes.
it is still like death in the forest amongst chimpanzees.
if your dentist will not follow the necessary procedures, then you must find one that will.
do  whatever it takes to get your loved one out into the world again!
a low red blood cell count (under 4.4 million/mm3) is the "garden" variety.
remove all cleaners such as carpet cleaner, leather cleaner, rust remover.
if you know you are allergic to this, leave this one out of your recipe.
yet you can build the test apparatus yourself (see the "making a syncrometer" section that begins on page 457), buy foods at your grocery store, and tabulate your own results.
milk 1 cup fresh squeezed or frozen vegetable juice water day 2 egg (limit is 2) bagel (from bakery) homemade bean or fried potatoes sour cream-c lentil soup 1 glass milk tomato sardines peppermint herb tea 1 cup vegetable juice dinner roll and butter fresh orange juice water salad milk homemade dressing ice cream (homemade) water day 3 cream of wheat(tm)
only by putting this power in your hands will it be safe from government regulation, however well intended.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ mix together 1 gal.
actually, they drew the  cancer to the organ.
later, when heart health is improved, the heart will beat regularly without drug use.
it helps me, my children, and my  grandchildren, if you are well.
lunch cook your food from scratch.
won't you catch one if you're in a roomful of coughing, sneezing people?
add l/2 cup 95% alcohol to 1/2 cup cold tap water or buy plain vodka, 80 to 100 proof.
isn't this a delicious way to start your day!
chips and  fries were made in chemical grease called "hydrogenated."
a speck in the  batter gets noticed.
what must be done to protect ourselves and loved ones from future disasters?
just make a guess and begin somewhere.
pour into a pint jar and shake to mix.
purple patches, like bruises, on the hands or arms of an elderly person are called purpura, and is also caused by sorghum molds.
health comes back and rewards you.
potency is strong for several years if unopened, even if it darkens.
see page 321 in the book metal ions in biological systems, vol. 10, carcinogenicity and metal ions.
diabetic eating out since the rules are always somewhat relaxed when "eating out" a  diabetic loved one will badger you to go out with them.
remember to enjoy and celebrate your achievements together; don't make a grim business out of it.
this will certainly increase the "pickiness" of a child's appetite.
the food and drug administration (fda) requires all body products to have sufficient antiseptic in them.
it only takes minutes to kill everything.
why is| | | she digging that | | | up.
the  sense of humor comes back: be prepared for some new jokes and new laughter.
the first few nights may be disturbed by extra  urination.
the capsule in the foreground is a notorious tryptophane capsule.
that infection can be the cause of tinnitus, tmj, arthritis, neck pain, loss of balance, and heart attacks!
"myelotoxicity toxicity resulting from exogenous estrogens evidence for  bimodal mechanism of action".
could the tapeworms of these animals give us a tapeworm stage that hosts polio virus?
to your mouth to remove a hull or bit of  something from your teeth.
if you are trying to do all this in a nursing home, feed it to your loved one while visiting.
it is a major mineral; all of our cells need lots of it.
this makes your refrigerator, if  it leaks even microscopically, the top cancer hazard in the country!
since you, the cook, know where the salt is, (mostly in soups and stews), don't serve as much of these when there is heart and kidney illness or high blood pressure.
the answer may be "i'm not deaf".
this throws light on self infection, too.
avoiding food toxins that are specifically immune-lowering is most important.
i can't guarantee the brands in sources will stay pure.
it is especially important though to rehydrate your elderly person after a diarrhea.
i conclude that one lives  inside the other!
perhaps you, too, will find the needed natural help when you are aged and have lost your authority and your way mentally.
do you remove amalgam tattoos?
substitute cooked cereals, bakery breads, potatoes, and honeys.
sweeten with honey or brown sugar with vitamin c added.
production and storage methods must be  better regulated so as to be fail-safe.
added to cooked cereal,  soup, stew, pudding.
use non-metal dishes and a non-metal stirring spoon.
to improve heart health, the first steps of course would be to go off caffeine and to kill parasites and bacteria.
if your house is more than 10 years old, change all the galvanized pipe to pvc plastic.
how  did a pollutant as dangerous as benzene get to be in our very food?
muscles that are diseased will take in the newcomer and allow it to survive adding to the parasites and pollutants already there!
nowhere is the concentration of the isopropanol specified.
eggs and meats (all very well cooked) are the richest sources  of iron and other minerals used in blood building.
remember to enjoy and celebrate your achievements  together; don't make a grim business out of it.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ after killing the parasite and its stages the hiv virus will be gone in 2 hours, almost as quickly as the cancer marker, orthophospho-tyrosine.
shine, isn't it a | isn't it a | sentence.
drinking  water before meals stimulates it in unknown ways but is hard to do for the  elderly.
thr: extremely toxic.
this will let some of the indoor toxins blow away.
how did hiv spread so rapidly?
propyl alcohol polluted products ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++throw these out even if propyl  alcohol is not listed on the label!
this is not so  bizarre.
your constant hunger can disappear.
teach children this rule.
use cornstarch from the original box.
as the stones from the far corners of the liver move forward, they compact into larger stones and plug the ducts again.
day 2: take two capsules 3 times a day.
throw away the parsley.
low potassium levels (due to excess potassium losses by the adrenals) causes more weakness.
these pollutants were identified using a testing device of my invention known as the syncrometer.
(ask when they will arrive.)
don't allow this door to be used.
the drugs responsible are usually "beta blockers", used for the purpose of smoothing out the heart beat, that is, making it regular.
boil the fresh parsley, after rinsing, in 1 quart of water for 3 minutes.
to clean the house, start with the bedroom.
so how could evolutionary forces have "learned" to establish death to prevent overpopulation?
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++without benzene in your body  you can't get aids.
and for this reason it is so useful for killing vicious bacteria like salmonella.
to your mouth to remove a hull or bit of something from your teeth.
but reinfection with an ebv-carrying  eurytrema (plus a wood alcohol containing beverage to allow the fluke to go to  the pancreas) can spark the next recurrence.
do not use the hair drier they supply.
during this time set up a system of sterilizing all dairy products (see milk, page 425) since this is the source of reinfection.
pump alcohol into  one palm.
vitamin c, in crystal form, is a must in your lifestyle.
a coxsackie virus has entered your child's brain causing inflammation (encephalitis) there.
endometriosis 109 contraception 112
if you have an illness wear a mask to vacuum.
they will leave the breast if you clear them out of your mouth (and diet, body, home).
it is a human parasite although it can also parasitize other species.
everyone would benefit from 100 mg.
this is the most powerful deodorant.
a few drops of olive oil on a dampened cloth.
the first cleanse may rid you of them for a few days, but as the stones from the rear travel forward, they give you the same symptoms again.
check the pulse immediately.
treat your elderly person twice a week if there is any heart problem.
they  were meant to pass their thousands of eggs with your bowel movement, outside,  to some pond where snails live.
but when the eggs hatch before they leave your body and are allowed to continue their development inside you, the setting is right for cancer to develop.
be very careful to keep the herb tea sterile by reheating every fourth day.
pour the vodka into the pump bottle.
a more reasonable philosophy is that there is no tooth worth saving if it damages your immune system.
not so for other sugars.
yes, if seasoned only with herbs (no bouillon cube).
ergot can make you super religious, hearing voices of command or threat.
shower water  puts a lot of chlorine into the bathroom air which then distributes itself  through the rest of the house.
burning and numbness 253 depression 256 manic depression  257 schizophrenia 261 autism 263 digestion problems 266 alzheimer's 269  dementias, memory loss 272pushing back age 275
if you don't plan to fry much (only once a week), you might keep the teflon(tm) or silverstone(tm)
then add the sodium alginate base to the desired thickness (about equal amounts) and shake.
baking soda is .476 grams.
in a pinch, buy gelatin capsules and empty them  or empty other vitamin capsules.
it will get harder after a few days.
when they believe in you, it makes  your task more rewarding.
only citric acid is strong enough to get the borax out, lemon juice and vinegar are not.
these bacteria are then free to spread to regions of injury and tumors.
aflatoxin is the  toxin in your diet that keeps you from clearing propyl alcohol from your body  (see the "aflatoxin" section that begins on page 382)!
pasta is mold-ridden.
your genes brought you the good things about your  ancestors, not the bad things.
use this on pancakes, cereal, plain yogurt and homemade ice cream too.
stopping eating them will.
it is common to find a crowned tooth to be very weak and not worth replacing the crown, particularly if you are already having a partial made and could include this tooth in it.
use only water or chemically pure baking soda if you have any metal fillings.
42 keep both salt and vitamin c powders in closable plastic shakers.
the purpose of the parsley water is to keep the kidneys flowing well so dead parasite refuse is eliminated promptly.
give niacin (page 279).
you won't drop dead from  getting propyl alcohol, but your cancer will flare up with each small addition.
be sure to test everything  eaten in a two week time period: unusual things like popcorn, candy, crackers,  cookies, health foods and special powders.
never buy filters with silver or other chemicals, even if they are just added to the carbon.
but the same molds can grow  on many plants.
make sure all fragrances are removed from the air, even though family  members "like" them.
if we knew which organ is failing, we could come to its assistance and  prevent the collapse of the whole body.
the heavy use of cream and butter is offset by no deep fat fried food and little cheese.
benzene goes to the bone marrow where t-cells are made, and to the thymus  where t-cells are programmed, two big blows to the immune system.
if you plan on trying this for yourself, order the set of cold remedies listed above (see sources).
powdered milk has both solvent and bacterial pollution.
to test the water, make samples by putting about a tsp.
the panoramic x-ray shows the whole mouth including the jaws and the sinuses.
the beverages to encourage are sterilized milk and hot water - delicious  with whipping cream, honey and cinnamon.
use 70% grain alcohol which you make yourself or plain  vodka which is about 50% alcohol.
crusts of mold, sometimes several feet thick, that form on top of grain bins can be simply shoveled away before the inspector arrives.
keep your elderly person warmly dressed, away from air conditioner or  fan drafts, but keep it cool.
it will not completely dissolve even if you use a tablespoon of the alcohol.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++in five or six hours your cold  could be gone.
their brilliant work and discussion was largely responsible for my pursuit of the whole subject of cancer.)one table from this book is shown on page 431.
don't heat your water in a coffee maker or tea kettle.
perhaps they  can sense the benefit it brings them.
members can ask for the bureau of library services, non-members ask for public information.)
if this leaves you uncomfortable, brush the extra times with plain water and a second "water-only" toothbrush.
mix glycerin and water, half and half, and add it to the charcoal powder until you get the consistency you like.
request that family members zap themselves and take at least one 2 tsp.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ other animals are as parasitized as we, full of flukes and worms and schistosomes in every imaginable stage, and if the blood carries these, would we not be eating live parasites if we eat animals in the raw state?
(we have  been told that eggs carry salmonella bacteria.
to use them you read the symptoms listed and take the remedy with the closest match.
hepatitis and cirrhosis cases always reveal aflatoxin.
you must stop the source  of both.
ergot toxicity could explain "jekyll and hyde" behavior in  children, commonly attributed to "allergies".
fortunately, this is easy to do with a  syrup.
don't start with a can or packet or cube.
expect to damage any foliage it touches.
none interfere with drugs.
get at least 4 flavors for variety: linden blossom, orange blossom, plain clover and local or wild flower honey.
start with only 1/4 cup at a  time.
increase oxygen brain problems include memory loss, communication deficit, dementia  (calling things by inappropriate names and saying inappropriate things).
borax can remove grease, too, and some stains.
no carpets or stuffed furniture, no foam bedding, no fresh paint, no pesticide.
don't let your grandchildren take "rides" on you.
only if  the weather doesn't allow outdoor walking can an indoor walk be substituted.
so instead of getting traces of pesticide, i got traces of propyl alcohol!
the denture-soak should kill bacteria each night.
heartworm and loa loa are two very  common heart parasites.
in  spite of adding mold inhibitors, american bread-stuff is far inferior to  mexican baked goods in which i do not find aflatoxin!
don't hesitate to drink the municipal water.
we can visualize the blocked bile ducts from such shapes.
use one package frozen fruit, such as cherries, blueberries or raspberries.
continue on the maintenance parasite program, indefinitely, to prevent  future reinfection.
if the stool floats or is orangish in color prepare your elderly person for a liver cleanse (page 552) to clear a bile duct of obstruction.
there's just one catch, if the new found interest in communication can't be expressed.
best is to observe that it is done with non-toxic methods.
especially if they themselves complain about it.
of course you must guard against daytime napping if nights are sleepless.
132  fig. 25 hiatal hernia.
ask a pharmacist to make a 1% hcl solution and use 10 drops of it in a beverage at mealtime once a day.
store in airtight container in freezer.
any dish soap that you use should be safe enough to eat because nothing rinses off clean.
(no croutons or bacon bits,  though.)
whether you rent a machine or have a cleaning service, don't use the carpet shampoo they want to sell, even if they "guarantee" that it is all natural and safe.
your hair can stop falling out-might even grow back.
what is it in the air that is toxic?
if you have learned the new bioelectronic technology described in this book, you can test all your foods and products for isopropyl alcohol.
1 cup hot milk with cinnamon.
with a parasite and pollution-free heart and a low-resistance, freely  flowing kidney, some reserve strength will soon be built up.
with so many benzene-polluted items, there is  hardly enough detoxification capability to get it all taken care of.
don't use hydrogen peroxide, though, if you have metal fillings, because they react.
dr. clark: i'd like to thank dr. jerome for his contributions to this section, and his pioneering work in metal-free dentistry.
waiting until after breakfast may not work.
the  first one should be in the morning.
use this for general sanitizing purposes: bathroom fixtures, knobs, handles, canes, walkers, and for personal cleanliness (but use chlorine bleach for the toilet bowl once a week).
they get quite fond of their parsley water.
take your fourth (the last) dose of epsom salts.
week 3: parsley water, black walnut, and wormwood.
i use it at doses from one capsule, 3 times a day, to 2 capsules, 5 times a day.
read the list of foods and products that are polluted with propyl alcohol.
this removes the ever-present pesticides and common fruit mold.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ when preparing the walnuts, rinse only with cold tap water.
dilute it from 35% to 17l/2% by adding water (equal parts).
these four cleanups - dental, diet, body, home - are aimed at removing parasites and pollutants at their source.
grab a tissue, quick-quick-quick!
exchange it for a usa belt (see the sources chapter).
this, of course, happens to every household member.
benzene, which is a solvent and extremely harmful to humans, may not be  harmful to fluke parasites living within us.
cook chicken in a pressure cooker to kill all parasites.
diabetes is a common development in the elderly.
the noise of a filter motor and fumes it may put  out itself adds misery to the simple job of breathing.
still, it is so shocking not to be able to run a few steps or  sneeze or cough without wetting the underwear, that anything seems better than  doing nothing.
if you get total relief at some point, stop.
- don't use massage oils of any kind.
it takes the fun out of their life as much as yours.
do this for a week before starting the black walnut hull tincture.
when you do a lot of dental repair in a short time, it can seem to be costly.
it is feeling happy to see the sky and to see growing things and to feel confident in human society's progress.
powdered lysine (you may crush tablets) 1/4 tsp.
in the sink 527 shampoo 528 hair spray 529 homemade soap  529 liquid soap 530 skin sanitizer 530 deodorant 531 brushing teeth 532 for  dentures 533 mouthwash 533 contact lens solution 533 lip soother 534 foot  powder 534 skin healer moisturizer lotion 534 other skin healers 535 massage  oil 536 sunscreen lotion 536 nose salve 536 quick corn starch skin softener 537  cornstarch skin softener 537
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++one more thing, don't take no  for an answer ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
the food will sink lower if some of it can leave the stomach at the lower  pyloric end.
then store in the refrigerator or freezer.
why are highly toxic metals put in materials for our mouths?
don't try to remove them.
do dental  repair according to the principles described in the dental section.
check into carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, fumes from a gas stove pilot light, auto exhaust from an attached garage or nearby highway, arsenic from household pesticide, pvc from new plastic curtains or carpeting, formaldehyde from wearing new clothing before washing it, asbestos from hair dryers, freon from a refrigerator, fiberglass, and chlorine from running tap water.
the starch skin softener gives  the smoothness of soap, and prevents the pain of friction.
because no additional value has been observed.)this dose kills any remaining stages throughout the body, including the bowel contents, a location unreachable by electric current.
they can not be killed by zapping, because the high frequency current does not penetrate the bowel contents.
propyl alcohol and wood alcohol are present because the tubing used to fill the bottles is sterilized and cleaned with them.
but even eating tree branches for supper won't move a  bowel that has the wrong bacteria in it.
but for the elderly it does not reflect a strong athletic heart beat.
if you have a household pet, you will always be able to find a tapeworm  stage in your sponge or in a dust sample you collect from the table or kitchen  counter in the morning.
the loneliness of the last coma, the last silence is unspeakable.
there are no  alternatives available without these metals.
so with mold toxins present, adenovirus, fleeing the dead tapeworm stage,  mite, or e. coli is not gobbled up.
when the fluke is gone, i no longer find ebv in the white blood cells.
do not burn your food in a microwave oven.
589  index 591 figures fig.
in the past, when the nutrient properties of molasses were  discovered, the molasses manufacturing was a small, carefully conducted  business.
drinking water before meals stimulates it in unknown ways but is hard to do for the elderly.
(bottalico, a., lerario, p., and  visconti, a., "production of zearalenone, trichothecenes and moniliformin  by fusarium species from cereals, in italy".
then the beep disappears; presumably the mite is dead.
barium found in  lipstick draws cancer to the breast.
tattoos are pieces of mercury left in the gum tissue.)
don't provide wine or other alcoholic beverages; they are too contaminated with ergot and aflatoxin.
now, more than ever, must you stay off dairy products (except for boiled milk), do the bowel program, take lugol's.
make  yourself a mixture of equal parts of sodium chloride and potassium chloride.
dying 330curing cancer 331 another fluke disease 331 teamed with a solvent 332 propyl alcohol polluted products 335
perhaps they believed that small amounts - too small to measure with an ultraviolet spectrophotometer - could surely do no harm.
17 stone ground corn tortillas, high in  calcium.
vitamin c powder (ascorbic acid); or 8 tablets, 500 mg each 3 tsp.
for that matter, none of us should tolerate any of these: if you allowed a tiny drop of kerosene or carpet cleaning fluid to get into your pet's food every day, wouldn't you expect your pet to get sick?
ill health, even aging, can be reversed.
other syrups may have sorghum added, polluting them.
it starts females maturing  too early, too.
the kidney herbs (page 549), at half dose level (1/2 cup a day instead of  a whole cup) can be given daily for three weeks and then on alternate days  indefinitely.
this doesn't obligate you to carry out any of  their wishes.
when heated to  decomposition they [sic] emit highly toxic fumes of tl
only two health problems no matter how long and confusing is the list of symptoms a person has,  from chronic fatigue to infertility to mental problems, i am sure to find only  two things wrong: they have in them pollutants and/or parasites.
over compliance can bring back radiant health, strength  you never knew you had, a beautiful normal body again!
let your family know you are aiming to reach 100 years in healthy condition.
hydrogen peroxide, food grade.
the inside of your t-shirt for t-shirt wearers.
you'll say "no thanks" to canned food and metal cutlery  (you can taste the metal now).
however most commercial lugol's is polluted with isopropyl alcohol.
very thick olive oil can be substituted.
follow with a stronger damp paper towel.
lesson fifteen 494  lesson sixteen 494 lesson seventeen 495 sensitivity of pollutant-in-product  testing 497 microscopy lesson 498 taking pictures of what you see 501 using a  frequency generator 502 the theory 502 lesson eighteen 504 lesson nineteen 505  lesson twenty 506 lesson twenty one 507 lesson twenty two 507 lesson twenty  three 508 lesson twenty four 508 lesson twenty five 509 lesson twenty six 509  lesson twenty seven 509 lesson twenty eight 510 lesson twenty nine 510recipes  513 beverage recipes 513 lemonade 513 fresh tomato juice 513 fresh pineapple  juice 514 maple milk shake 514 yankee drink 514 hot vanilla milk 514 red milk  515 c-milk 515 my own soda pop 515
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++do not take lugol's iodine if you know you are allergic to iodine.
it's more dangerous than the toilet because you do not suspect it.
some purchased parasite and tissue  slides.
in olden days, a sassafras branch was used to stir, imparting a fragrance and insect deterrent for mosquitoes, lice, fleas, ticks.
there is a good chance you will have one that is not given, because the list is so incomplete.
cysts are  the "eggs" made by parasites.
they  supply vinegar and are often loved by persons with little acid in their  stomachs or a lot of yeast (vinegar is a yeast inhibitor).
modern dirt is full of chemicals and is toxic to you.
use white distilled vinegar in your rinse water for a natural shine and ant repellent.
this keeps them free of dust.
it  makes them multiply and your cells are similarly affected.
they have been leading the movement to ban mercury from dental supplies.
many dentists advocate mercury  amalgam fillings simply because they are accepted by the ada, which they  believe protects them from malpractice litigation.
you may throw away the "skin".
milk, however, requires stomach acid to curdle it as the first step in digestion.
dr. jerome: it is quite all right to have temporary crowns placed on all  teeth that need them in the first visit.
they touch other peoples' hands.
parasite program handy chart strike out the doses as you take them.
heart health to improve heart health, the first steps of course would be to go off  caffeine and to kill parasites and bacteria.
select a warm climate where you can spend your time outdoors in the  shade most of the day.
homeopathy makes very interesting reading.
this makes them work together.
ask these questions: bile is necessary for digestion.
i find it in potatoes; don't eat potato skins.
this is one regimen your loved one will not resent.
adrenal performance is improved by taking the kidney herb recipe.
-> fifth use a single 2 tsp.
make your own salad and salad dressing out of olive oil, fresh lemon juice or white distilled vinegar (apple cider vinegar has aflatoxins), honey, salt and herbs to flavor.
don't sit on the floor  at a gathering.
bleach can kill a lot, but it doesn't kill giardia spores and a lot of types of fungus.
many dentists advocate mercury amalgam fillings simply because they are accepted by the ada, which they believe protects them from malpractice litigation.
if you let yourself eat highly salted food while you're giving  the adrenals a clean up, at least add potassium chloride to your diet.
it would be a fascinating study, simply to examine  each of these parasites singly, searching for their viruses with an electron  microscope.
this is what prevents you from  detoxifying tiny bits of propyl alcohol that get into your body!
a heart that is beating 100 times per minute, not unusual for a weak old heart, can be so irregular that it misses every fourth beat.
keeping it out on alternate days or 5 days of the week will not suffice.
take your loved one to a nurse for ear cleaning every six months after hearing aids are begun.
mumps, measles, chicken pox, cmv, staphylococcus aureus, e. coli, are all there.
use borax and washing soda (equal amounts) for your dishes.
as fascinating as this whole story is, the bottom line is: how can you stop a cold, in record time?
they resemble insects.
switch to homemade bar soap, washing soda and borax for all your tasks!
we rely on government agency assurances, like beef grades, expiration dates, approved food colors and additives.
it can be as strong  as desired.]
if you have cancer or bowel disease go off fresh fruit (bananas and lemons are ok) for a few weeks.
teamed with a solvent
we were never meant to eat rotting, spoiling food.
there will be very little pulp.
when  the pulse drops below 60 the new danger is slowness.
if this causes  them to spring a tiny leak somewhere, a part of the brain will not get its  usual oxygen and nourishment.
these tumors can multiply and enlarge, as in fibrocystic breast  disease, all without being malignant.
dr. clark: we are accustomed to thinking that plastic is metal-free.
health is remembering the good parts of childhood and believing you still have a lot of them.
heat to near boiling while in the original jar with the lid removed.
never use chlorine bleach if anybody in the home is ill or suffers from depression.
may switch sweet potato with rice on asparagus  day.
this is why aflatoxin, for instance, is found not just in your  cereal, bread and pasta but in nuts, maple syrup, orange juice, vinegar, wine,  etc.
(c) [discusses its use in hops extract.]
if the clothing or dishes are toxic (appear in the saliva), suspect: cobalt pcb aluminum stop all detergent use.
13 safe substitutes for personal products.
use very low heat and stir with a wooden spoon handle.
for ten years or more you poisoned your body with freon, fiberglass,  asbestos, mercury, lead, copper, etc.
your pharmacist can help  you find a replacement brand.
giving b12 shots is the current clinical treatment for b12 deficiency.
or buy chemically pure salt (see the sources chapter).)
our lives are all foreshortened, much like the life of a domestic steer's.
never, never use fiberglass as a filter or  to insulate your air conditioner around the sides.
after seeing this happen dozens of times after killing a mite or tapeworm stage i concluded that adenovirus really belongs to them; the virus is scuttling its dying host like people jumping off a sinking ship into the ocean.
there are no syrups or  sugars.
-> fourth use digestive enzyme tablets with meals as directed on the bottle.
but you may feel quite attached to the gold, so ask the  dentist to give you everything she or he removes.
always take vitamin c. aflatoxin a common mold found on bread, nuts and fruit and in beer, apple cider  vinegar and syrups, produces aflatoxin.
zap your pet along with yourself by holding them and touching a bare spot such as nose or paw.
don't wash the pet dishes with your own - dishwashers don't reach the boiling point.
that great body of wisdom, your body, the same as listened to your three wishes, will reward you over and over as you cooperate with it, until you have had not 3 but 30 wishes granted, each one seemingly as impossible as climbing mt. everest.
they all feed on the milk and food residue.
the changed shape of the red blood cells is reflected in a bigger volume called mean cell volume (mcv).
this new recipe is four times as strong as the previous one, so it is called black walnut hull tincture extra strength.
the damp carpet lets it  spread evenly and reach all the crevices.
then search a saliva sample for it.
kali bi | thick post nasal drip, colored discharge, sinus headache spongia | croupy cough figure 49:
a strong heart is necessary, too, to push the blood through the kidneys.
if you are short on sugar it will  turn fat into sugar.
tops and bottoms of some metal crowns.
the newly contaminated dust drops into your ready and waiting glasses on the table and the open foods.
meanwhile, protect yourself by avoiding propyl alcohol.
lawful uses of solvents in food.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ if you have managed to free your loved one from having to take pills or  from certain disabilities that would soon require pills, you can give yourself  great credit.
clean the vents in other rooms each week along with floors and carpets by pulling up the grating and reaching down the passage as far as possible.
the fruit may be chopped with whipping cream, cinnamon and honey sauce  (not more than 1 tbs.
the significance of the mold is that it lowers your immunity, specifically and generally.
these acids are  completely metabolized so they don't add to the body acid level.
the liver fights hard to detoxify  aflatoxin and manage its own survival.
if you eat peanut butter now, your cold will return with a vengeance.
this female hormone could have a drastic effect on the maturing process even in small amounts.
a few varieties may die but most of them don't.
undoubtedly these help the liver and kidneys in many ways.
immediately give a 100 mg tablet of  niacin, 1 gram vitamin c, and a b-complex in this order of importance.
warming up their feet might have the effect of warming up hands, too.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ vitamin c: shake some into all foods that can absorb a bit of the sour  taste, even cooked cereal and vinegar water.
| black walnut hull | wormwood  capsule | clove capsule dose | tincture extra | dose (200-300 mg) | (size 0 or  00) |
super longevity we should be able to live to 140 years of age.
in the meantime, watch over the pulse.
go immediately  for the morning walk.
freezing is not adequate.
especially when the blood test shows a high "total co2"  level, near the upper limit, search for an air pollutant like house gas or auto  fumes.
either the clothes dryer gets a new belt or it is taped securely shut and  the laundry is dried on the line or taken to a laundromat.
heat to boiling, covered.
it should never come in contact with metal, including its container or metal tooth fillings.
i hope you have come to the same happy conclusion that i did a few years ago!
and without a taste or smell to guide you, how would you know to stop eating the moldy peanut butter or spaghetti?
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ baking soda has been deleted as a deodorant because benzene was found in some boxes.
after this, you take 7 capsules once a week forever, as it  states in the maintenance parasite program.
if you are very ill or chronically ill you must have asked yourself many times: why have these problems chosen me?
modern shoes, with their deep treads, bring in  huge amounts of outdoor filth which settles deep down into the carpets.
(use plastic gloves for this; test them for holes first.)
opponents cite scientific studies that  implicate mercury amalgams as disease causing.
give yourself chromium (gtf) tablets totalling 1 mg.
there are 6,000 to 10,000 dentists who should be able to help.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++all honey and maple syrup should have vitamin c added to it as +++soon as it arrives from the supermarket.
if you must cough or sneeze and a tissue is not within reach fast enough, use your clothing!
if a new symptom appears, it is because another pathogen has become activated due to a new toxin.
after drinking liver herbs you will see that the freon now appears in the kidneys.
the lung lesions will not heal unless  cigarette smoking, freon, asbestos, and fiberglass exposure is stopped.
it must be out consistently.
you can find out by waiting until a time when you have a tapeworm stage or  mite
it is wisest to check this possibility with a dentist before doing weeks of  other testing.
teach children this old rearranged verse: if you cough or sneeze or sniff grab a tissue, quick-quick-quick!
every pet living in your home should be deparasitized (cleared of parasites) and maintained on a parasite program.
the new pathogen is in the dust.
before these, an episode of "flu" or a dental "repair".
both of these are easily picked up through your skin.
reapply every six months.
you don't have to watch it go down.
it is not in dairy products or fresh fruit and vegetables, provided you wash the outside.
be  advised that every person is unique and may respond differently to the  treatments described in this book.
put the strained herbs in the freezer and use them one more time.
if there is not sufficient acid, it will pass undigested into the intestine, causing new problems.
acid levels operate the latching system that decides whether oxygen will be attached to hemoglobin or let go!
cleaning up dentalware is under your control, too - a financial expense not beyond your reach, hopefully.
add water to the top.
be +++sure not to add store bought flavors, except vanilla or maple.
aluminum free salt and boiling again, pour into a sterile canning jar.
- sugar coated cereals.
higher pressure pushes out more stones.
black threads in toilet are indicative of fluke remains.
acidity unlatches oxygen.
it is  my fervent hope that manufacturers use the new electronic techniques in this  book to make surer products than they ever have before.
these toxins can be absorbed through babies' skin.
waiting until after breakfast  may not work.
nobody will notice the relief of going off this medicine as much as you.
to detoxify the ergot, you simply add vitamin c to the honey as soon as it arrives from the supermarket.
ice cold food stimulates the thyroid; loved by low thyroid persons.
this  principle is ancient.
supper - well cooked fish or seafood  (canned o.k., like sardines, salmon and tuna).
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ make walking as essential as eating.
is it the nerve that ages then, and decides death for each of us?
add vitamin c to honey, pasta and  cooked cereals.
make sure they are covered.
if you find any, you  know the dentures are toxic!
i have not  tested patulin to see if it can be detoxified by vitamin c. we must use only  white distilled vinegar, even though it lacks potassium, aroma and popularity.
then it disappears, evidently eaten up by your white blood  cells, provided there is no mold toxin in you.
we were meant to be repelled by the bad odor, the bad appearance, the bad taste.
diet 275 increase oxygen 278  niacin 279 tia's, strokes and purpura 281 blood pressure 281 air pollution 282  anemia 285 acid levels 287 increase minerals 287 chelation 289 pulse 289 heart  health 290 incontinence 293 bad digestion 295
guidelines for a healthy mouth
remove window air conditioners or test the dust in your home (see the "testing the air" section that begins on page 485) for freon.
side down so  the filter can soak for 15 minutes.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ after killing the flukes, those  growth factors already formed will disappear in one hour.
(the correct answer is no.
vacuuming sends up a hurricane of dust and distributes bathroom  dust to the kitchen and kitchen dust to the bedrooms.
green beans, onions, garlic,  eggplant, all have unique chemicals in them.
but the greatest social disaster is lowered immunity - aids.
dilute 100% vegetable glycerin with an equal amount of water.
evidently the system of wrapping baked goods in plastic keeps moisture trapped and starts the molding process.
nothing controls fleas reliably, except getting rid of the carpets and cloth furniture (keep pets out of bedrooms).
use this as your guideline.
grain alcohol or vodka to the recipe.
make your own tomato sauce with pure herb seasoning, not from a jar or can (home canned foods are fine, of course, as long as they are not made in a big aluminum pot with aluminum-containing salt).
calcium should be in the form of milk, magnesium as a tablet.
homeopathy can cure cold symptoms too, without side effects.
one hour later you may eat regular food but keep it light.
it manages for 2 to 3 weeks; then a  portion of it succumbs.
do you also love bread and pasta (more pure  starch though very inferior to potatoes)?
adding roughage to the diet is a good solution but often  doesn't work.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ your pet is part of your family and should be kept as sweet and clean and  healthy as yourself.
always try the vinegar and honey method first.
how can you be there if you have a job or are attending a family's needs?
you can combine all the leftovers in a single baggy.
don't take a chance on over-medicating.
wisdom would serve our society well.
nothing, not even brain improvement, impresses and encourages an elderly person as much as seeing the incontinence lessen.
things that crawl or climb into us.
they pick it up daily and have  thirty days to develop it and give it to others between treatments.
don't put rice in your salt because it invites mold.
longevity seems a very useful trait if only it were accompanied by health!
in  this case, filter it with a small all-carbon unit that is changed right on  schedule.
the original dental plastic, methyl methacrylate was metal-free.
gone was all the accumulated infectious dust of half a year of habitation.
will you really get this cold?
you are also likely to  find it on your kitchen sponge, since you wipe up dust each day.
mange in  animals is a mite infestation.
do not breathe the vapor or lean over the container or have children nearby.
heartworm and loa loa are two very common heart parasites.
enjoy each bit of progress; it is often too subtle for your loved one to notice even when it is glaringly obvious to you.
search for heavy metals in the denture water.
don't add chemicals (commercial cleaning solutions) to the steam cleaning machine; these chemicals leave a residue in the carpet which dries and flies up into the air to add to the dust.
do not add bleach to this.
goat milk is probably better than cows' milk, but more difficult tc  get used to.
acid was meant to be removed from the blood and loaded into the stomach at  mealtime for digestion.
so you can't catch a cold directly from some sneezy companion, or e. coli, or tapeworm stages, or mites.
my results show they do much more.
- personal lubricant, including lubricated condoms - baking soda and cornstarch (see the sources chapter) - tea tree oil products (except the one shown in figure 45) - soaps, hand creams, skin creams, moisturizers - flavored pet food, both for cats and dogs - bird food made into cakes figure 44: mexican made candy with no benzene.
(thulium and ytterbium have been studied for their tumor-seeking  ability.
presumably the liver screened it out of the blood originally.
yes, they  deserve pure food, they deserve variety.
heart/kidney relationship
parasite stages survive heat up  to the boiling point.
1 selected animal bandwidths.
daily supplements: 4 chromium (200 mcg.
but severe salt deprivation in the diet can also cause this.
food grade alcohols are grain (ethyl) alcohol or vodka.
added to cooked cereal, soup, stew, pudding.
if not enough milk is  drunk: make custard pudding or rice pudding so the daily amount (3 cups) is  consumed.
the benefits of a liver cleanse will last longer if valerian herb is taken the day after the cleanse and from then forward.
dump it and sterilize the container.
they may not be getting cancer (yet!)
the source of ascaris is usually a pet, owned in the past.
49 pain from toe to head 51 searching for  bacteria 53 what you will find 54 toe pain 55 balance your ph 57 foot pain 59
do this as soon as you have found a dentist able to do it.
you may also try arrow root or potato starch.
without taking in propyl alcohol you could never get cancer.
after this, adenovirus appears and again you are catching a cold.
choose the right homeopathic remedy for that, and you can chase it away again.
honey is self limiting-the taste for it is all gone after 1 tbs.
call the health department to arrange the testing.
by delaying alcohol detoxification, the mold could even be responsible for deaths "due to" alcoholism.
add citric acid to balance the ph (7 to 8).
some develop allergies or hives but some have no symptoms.
the body makes tumors out of them in order to stop them from cutting through your tissue.
+++ +++many researchers believe hiv causes aids.
after four hours (or overnight) add 8 oz.
you are the true gourmet.
other organs are dependent on the failing organ and begin to fail also.
dip it into the glycerin mixture and apply inside the nose with a rotating motion.
should disclosure of  foreign origins of food ingredients be mandatory?
the time it takes depends on how much mold you ate.
i only see ebv if the person also has eurytrema (pancreatic fluke) in the pancreas.
48  goods baked in a panaderia (mexican style bakery) never tested positive to  molds.
it is  much healthier to be warmly dressed and breathe cool air than to be lightly  dressed in an 80 degrees f room.
but at least we should be able to tell what impurities we are getting, and how much.
opponents cite scientific studies that implicate mercury amalgams as disease causing.
b6 and other vitamins are  also involved and can be given as a b-complex (see the sources chapter).
a sign of too much potassium is a slow pulse.
then add an equal amount of honey, or to taste and heat again to boiling.
the simplest way to cook fish is to poach it in milk.
potatoes (not overcooked), peeled to make sure there are no blemishes  (contain mold and pesticide) can be cooked with the beans.
here are some do's and don'ts: here is a list of things that are generally safe to order: pancakes, french don't use their imitation syrup (has toast, waffles benzoate), use honey instead.
they hatch in the stomach and go to the intestine to live.
but something recent may have aggravated them, so they now can enter  more easily into the blood and brain.
it does not lather but goes right to work removing sweat and soil without stripping your color or natural oils.
grocery  store ground cloves do not work!
testing food is the biggest job.
26 lymph node neck glands.
use vinegar in the rinse cycle.
at the end, turn off heat and add a sprinkle of vitamin c powder.
and by observing 2  extra rules: never eat moldy foods.
it would be safer to brew your own alcoholic beverages.
cut the drug dosage in half immediately.
only the strength of their immune  system decides this.
then pour about 1/4 cup of the mixture over the towel roll around the middle.
serve no canned varieties.
be careful not to buy isopropyl rubbing alcohol for this purpose.
as long as your loved one tries to avoid drinking it, your challenge is to find the problem and solve it.
people who have had their gallbladder surgically removed still get plenty of green, bile-coated stones, and anyone who cares to dissect their stones can see that the concentric circles and crystals of cholesterol match textbook pictures of "gallstones" exactly.
despite the presence of aflatoxins, benzopyrenes, and solvents in many foods, it is possible to have a delicious and safe diet.
if you allow the work to be done by a dentist who does not understand the importance of the above list, you could end up with new problems.
the solutions consist of one of the following, to which may be  added components generally recognized as safe and components which are  permitted by prior sanction or approval.
be a health detective after curing your own diseases, teach your friends and family how it's  done.
fiberglass insulation has microscopically small bits of glass that are free to blow into the air.
cut in bite-sized pieces, add a minimum of water and cook or bake minimally.
some of these displace oxygen, some are simply toxic to the body and lungs.
they have  their preference for certain plants and conditions.
there are several ways to make a 50% grain alcohol solution.
a large bridge must be replaced with a removable partial (flexite(tm)).
these are called temporary ischemic attacks (tia's).
this is sad for the consumer of health food varieties.
if the body acid level is too high, help the kidneys excrete it by adding more water to the diet and more minerals to neutralize the acid.
typically, they are not in the gallbladder.
day 2: take 1 capsule  before supper day 3: take 2 capsules before supper.
the potato appears on your plate the way it was harvested.
if you crave it, try to understand the message.
secondly use turmeric (2 capsules 3 times a day, this is the common spice) which i find helps against shigella, as well as e. coli.
unless they  pull evenly, the wagon feels jerky, and irregular.
ice cream machines are "oiled" with a gel containing petroleum products.
breathing coal  fumes during the beginning of the industrial age may have brought the new lung  diseases: tuberculosis (tb), and pneumonia.
dead portions of the liver cannot regenerate as they otherwise would after a toxic encounter!
they were meant to be an exact shape and size to fit the most  oxygen molecules onto them.
giving b12 shots is the current clinical treatment for b12  deficiency.
permission is hereby granted to make copies of any part of this document for  non-commercial purposes provided that this page with the original copyright  notice is included.
cancer is so easily cured because it is a parasite-caused disease.
if your  body has the right conditions (like a low acid stomach) to let them grow you  dare not swallow another one!
bedbugs were once a scourge amongst northern europeans.
for unpolluted vitamins see  the sources chapter.
days 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10: take three capsules 3  times a day.
but  modern plastic contains metal.
fresh green beans, especially fava beans contain a substance that is described in old herbal literature to be especially beneficial to diabetics.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++ice creams from the grocery store are loaded with benzene and other +++solvents.
do not drink it all at once or you will get a stomach ache and feel pressure in your bladder.
perhaps  wisdom is needed more than ever for humans to survive.
then the tape eggs hatch into the cysticercus stage, which promptly gets to the liver.
put it in a spray bottle.
the extra greens can be beet greens, collards, mustard greens or spinach served  with a favorite dressing to make sure it's eaten.
once the body, even an aged body, finds a nutritious food that does not cause troubles of its own, it asks for more.
it belongs on the table with  salt and pepper, and at the stove.
but if you are the caretaker, you know that some things must stop.
dissolve phosphate crystals with the kidney herb  recipe.
there is no substitute for milk; calcium  tablets are not satisfactory.
health food store varieties contain solvents from the bottling process.
fatigue  will leave and the brain will work better.
17 stone ground corn tortillas, high in calcium.
food mold, at the base of the propyl alcohol problem, is also at the base of the benzene problem.
find the right dentist first even if you must travel hundreds of miles.
you will be glad you switched.
the body may be trying to reject chlorine or other toxins in it.
the homeopathic method would be a beautiful cold cure if it weren't for the mold intrusion.
our bodies are the ocean for them.
eat homemade yogurt and add honey or homemade preserves yourself.
throw away all metal ware, foil wrap, and metal-capped salt shakers since you will never use them again.
for bleaching (only do this occasionally) use original chlorine bleach (not "new improved" or "with special brighteners", and so forth).
use the  recipes in this book to make your own.
if you  have learned the new bioelectronic technology described in this book, you can  test all your foods and products for isopropyl alcohol.
mites don't bite us but we inhale them as they float in the ever present
better yet, make your own pasta with a pasta maker.
they give off arsenic and formaldehyde.
then make a solution to wash in (1 tsp.
this is a very light oil, useful as an after shave lotion and general skin treatment.
home-made buttermilk is fine.
vitamin e oil from now foods was not polluted at the time of this writing, but for the future it would be safer to rely on capsules.
rinse and bake  to dry again.
it helps me, my children, and my grandchildren, if you are well.
(it's what you're saying that's wrong!)
so if one person has brought in a new infection, the whole family is exposed to it in hours via the dust.
the results of a  hearing test, as it is told by a salesperson, is much more persuasive than you  can be.
they would rather not go to church nor visit a friend than embarrass themselves in that way.
use your new wisdom and sharp eye to choose a new dwelling as free of pollutants as you can.
sometimes iron levels are low and can explain the low red blood cell count.
your regular laundry soap may contain pcbs, aluminum, cobalt and other chemicals.
carcinogens were thought to be the cause of cancer.
- a perfectly unblemished banana.
put a pinch in a glass, add water to dissolve it.
but it should not be done before the parasite program, and for best results should follow the kidney cleanse and any dental work you need.
(114 mcg/100 g. taken from food values 14th ed.
cattle are immunized against salmonella but it does not prevent its persistence in the bowel.
until you can test your own water for solvents, pcbs and metals, no expensive filter is worth the investment.
get new ones, made of uncolored methacrylate (see  dental cleanup, page 409).
use no artificial sweetener and no beverages besides milk, water and the recipes given in this book.
find the right dentist first even if you must travel hundreds of  miles.
a warm stomach full of food at a neutral ph is just the right culture condition for these bacteria.
somewhere, over the years, you pick up the intestinal fluke in a hamburger  or from a pet or person.
the stench of the infection under some teeth may be overwhelming as they  are pulled.
these  bacteria are then free to spread to regions of injury and tumors.
ethnic  foods were made from scratch.
when the gas and bloating problem has stopped, stop using lugol's.
next comes the more tedious task of finding their sources.
10 your kidneys with the adrenal glands sitting like hats on top.
88 make a bottle of borax liquid to fill your soap dispensers and shampoo bottle.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ as soon as you feel a cold coming, ask yourself: what did you eat recently that might have been moldy?
the element polonium,  which is radioactive and in tobacco smoke, is harmful to human lungs, but may  not be harmful to a small lung parasite, like pneumocystis carnii.
at that time, we can theorize that a new large parasite was making its appearance.
add vinegar that leaves a residue to repel ants.
you can never completely rid yourself of these bacteria, although they may temporarily be gone after zapping.
for spot removal use homemade bar soap.
it can be combined with washing soda for extra cleaning power.
acid foods stimulate; spices and b-vitamins (especially b1) stimulate; hot foods stimulate.
other stones are composites-made of many smaller ones-showing that they regrouped in the bile ducts some time after the last cleanse.
you simply need your own genes back on the job, directed by your own body, working for you.
if it is in the prostate it can become  prostate cancer.
salt if it's salt, you might also love popcorn and other salty food.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++hiv stands for human  immunodeficiency virus.
one place you do feel an attack is in your respiratory tract: lungs, bronchi, sinuses, nose, eustachian tubes, inner ear, eyes or head.
since a diabetic's tissues are not absorbing sugar, they crave it more and more.
black threads in toilet  are indicative of fluke remains.
what is the clue to long life?
grilled food has benzopyrenes as do hot dogs and "smoke  flavored" foods.
62 more dental metal.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++mold eluded, is health  improved.
i have indicated throughout this book the existence of pollutants in food and other products.
if you  are in a wheelchair without a very reliable diagnosis, have all the metal  removed from your mouth.
cook your food in glass, enamel, ceramic or microwavable pots and pans.
we may be deriving viruses from all the roundworms, flukes, tapeworms and bacteria that infect us!
these stresses and strains invite bacteria toward themselves.
a scientific book on this subject was published in 1980.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ flatworms, roundworms, protozoa, even bacteria and viruses are remarkably easy to kill using a combination of zapping and this herbal program.
do different  exercises.
if you plan on trying these start with  a set of thyme, fenugreek, sage (for throat).
often it is easy to see which organ is failing.
it's an elaborate detoxifying program and usually takes six to eight weeks to get most of the freon out.
that's what clothing is  for-to protect you.
use your fingers or a tissue to apply because applicators can carry bacteria.
an aqueous solution containing elemental iodine (cas reg.
if one person  develops cancer or hiv, the others probably have the intestinal fluke also.
besides the benzopyrenes, certain mold toxins and solvents do this  and are found in foods.
they go right to the gateways of your cells and evict  the tiny parasite, bacteria or virus stuck to the latch and trying to get in.
lugol's iodine solution (see the recipes chapter) is old-fashioned "iodine".
sip through the day to avoid "belly-ache".
don't let  food get more than a day old in the dishes.
some states have everclear(tm) 95% alcohol.
now visit the bathroom one or more times, even if it makes you late for your ten o'clock drink.
occasionally, thallium and germanium are found together in mercury amalgam  tooth fillings.
look closely and you see the whole panorama of your numerous tiny invaders being held at bay by your valiant immune system, your white blood cells.
both you and your  elderly person deserve the best tone quality that is made.
(bottalico, a., lerario, p., and visconti, a., "production of zearalenone, trichothecenes and moniliformin by fusarium species from cereals, in italy".
minimize your use of fossil fuels in every way you can.
or your child  plays with the same toys as sick children?
remove the tiny creatures that cause microscopic bleeding instead.
members can ask for the bureau of  library services, non-members ask for public information.)
yes, if vitamin c is added before cooking.
take out all bridge work or partials made of metal and never put them back in.
i have only found nickel in the "one-minute" or "instant"  variety of oats, however.)
metal does not belong in your body.
iron in the form of pills is too easily snatched up by bacteria who also need it, making them more virulent to the body.
in a few days it will be hard enough to caulk with a prettier color.
use genuine eggs, not substitutes.
to sterilize the sponge: drop it into a 50% solution of grain alcohol at  the end of each day.
besides the benzopyrenes, certain mold toxins and solvents do this and are found in foods.
if you can listen and be interested in their  distillations or their ramblings their longing for relationship will be  fulfilled.
an excellent way to get lots of vitamin c into a child and relieve stomach distress at the same time.
don't take them within 15 minutes of food  or anything else.
one of the stones pictured on  page 554 came from a woman age 97.
it is injurious to everyone's health,  even though it's comforting to bare feet and looks pretty.
the morning cup of water, drunk at the bedside has the magical ability to move the bowels.
milk can absorb a surprising amount of vitamin c powder without curdling or changing its flavor.
if they freeze some of it, you could purchase the frozen containers.
its true nature is still unknown, but it contains freon, other toxins, and later propyl alcohol!
the pulse, blood pressure and blood  chemistry is also carefully monitored.
borax liquid is ready to use as shampoo, too.
the cause must be found.
remember that killing a mosquito does not remove the lump  it caused.
when  your loved one is in the mood to talk about dying, listen.
then take niacinamide 500 mg to counteract the  toxicity of the alcohol.
but a good salt rule is to either cook with it or have it on the table, but not both.
low blood pressures are often due to toxins from foods.
clogged hearing aids are the most troublesome feature of any of them-and never mentioned!
having the milk warm to hot helps in getting digestion started in the  stomach.
as each fluke dies and is finally removed, the body's  white blood cells can catch up with the viruses and you begin to feel better  again, which can be as quick as one day.
commercial denture cleaners are much more toxic than grain  alcohol; don't use them.
dying 330curing cancer 331 another fluke disease 331 teamed with a solvent 332  propyl alcohol polluted products 335
i have also found it in regular coffee.
purchase a device that needs  no adjustments of any kind and has automatic cuff tension control (see mail  order catalogs if your pharmacy does not have one).
as long as  your loved one tries to avoid drinking it, your challenge is to find the  problem and solve it.
arrange for dinner at noon if possible.
there are many ice cream recipes to be found in old cook books.
get in capsules or  make a tea.
hydrangea (hydrangea arborescens) is a common flowering bush.
gravel root (eupatorium purpureum) is a wild flower.
plan for the future after you are well again, you may wish to indulge in some philosophy.
sometimes the bile ducts are full of cholesterol crystals that did not form into round stones.
supplements that help your body to detoxify the benzopyrenes are: 1.
we can say  no to rotten moldy food.
chelation is a powerful way to quickly improve oxygenation of blood.
over 100 consecutive case histories of cured cancer victims are the  subject of another book (the cure for all cancers, by the same author,  promotion publishing, 1993) along with more detailed instructions and  suggestions.
for this reason, you should only get  replacement crowns and no new crowns.
do dental repair according to the principles described in the dental section.
by the time your doctor's appointment arrives, you can be sure of a negative test.
let stand for 5 minutes.
this eradicates even a stubborn case of salmonella.
they are thought to be few, not thousands.
either the girls use their hair dryers in their bedrooms with the door  closed or you'll get them all new ones that don't contain asbestos.
only leafy vegetables provide it.
everyone benefits by excluding auto fumes from the house.
test yourself for the presence of molds to see if you are accomplishing  your goal.
heat until it is cooked.
this is used in making  tortillas.
alginate mixtures can be used instead of, or added to, oil.
best of all, buy a juicer, select completely unbruised fruit, wash with plain water, and make your own juice (enough for a week-freeze it in half pint plastic bottles).
perhaps ascaris facilitates it's release, or simply suppresses the immune system in a way that allows it to suddenly multiply.
their nesting place, though, will be under a  missing tooth in the jaw (cavitation).
see page 321 in the book metal ions in biological systems, vol. 10,  carcinogenicity and metal ions.
throw out rugs that have been  pet-beds.
if your aunt, father and brother had diabetes  as well as yourself and all were cured after introducing them to this concept  and technology, isn't this worthy of notes in your family's history?
if you are short on both, it will turn your muscles into sugar.
avoiding food toxins that are specifically immune-lowering is most  important.
you may take these at different times in the day or together: | black walnut hull | wormwood capsule | clove capsule dose | tincture extra | dose (200-300 mg) | (size 0 or 00) | strength dose | | ---+---------------------+-----------------------+------------------------- day|1 time per day, |capsules 1 time per day|capsules 3 times per day, |like before a meal |on empty stomach |like at mealtime ---+---------------------+-----------------------+------------------------- 1 | 2 tsp.
if you must cough or sneeze and a tissue  is not within reach fast enough, use your clothing!
don't buy  batter, make your own.
you want  salt, grease, starch and crunch.
it is present in most common fruits if they are bruised.
half an hour later eat fruit.
not every  day's chlorine exposure will have the same effect.
one place you do feel an attack is in your respiratory tract: lungs,  bronchi, sinuses, nose, eustachian tubes, inner ear, eyes or head.
after some time they grew enough to be visible.
they have been leading the movement to ban  mercury from dental supplies.
if you notice a lump or think you might have cancer, don't rush to see a doctor first.
no diabetes, no high blood pressure, no cancer, no hiv/aids, no migraines,  no lupus and so on!
what kind of heat 407  getting rid of mites 407four clean_ups 409 dental clean-up 409 guidelines for a  healthy mouth 411 horrors of metal dentistry 416 dental rewards 419
the changed shape of the red blood cells is reflected in a bigger  volume called mean cell volume (mcv).
nor can they +++use all the sweeteners listed.
if your digestion isn't strong enough for raw vegetables  or fruit, make juice.
figure out how long it  should last and write the date for replacement on the outside of it for your  own convenience.
different homeopathic remedies go to different tissues, so you can only  clear one tissue at a time.
but getting well is more than saving your life.
it stays in you about twenty minutes.
it takes the fun out of their life  as much as yours.
also, notice how peppy and happy they become.
stay in hotels less than ten years old (so the plumbing hasn't  started to corrode) but not in new construction (give the carpets time to  outgas).
detoxify all your honey  as soon as it arrives in your house.
all hair shampoo penetrates the eye lids and gets into the eyes although you do not feel it.
and thank you to edna bernstein  for her resourceful assistance.
check with the nurse.
only one more  thing is needed to bring about an avalanche of reproduction, so that hundreds  of little larvae turn into hundreds more in a short time: a growth factor.
all home made soups are nutritious and safe, provided you use no processed ingredients (like bouillon), or make them in metal pots.
if you have a persistent problem with chapped lips, try going off citrus juice.
soon you will zap them, wherever they are.
covering with paneling is not sufficient.
these mold toxins cause hemorrhaging, appetite loss, and inability to  swallow.
(rolled oats have 235 mcg nickel per serving of 4 ounces, picked up from the rollers, according to food values 14th ed.
tia's, strokes and purpura
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++walking and liver cleansing are the most health-promoting +++activities you can do for your loved one.
that will take its course.
it takes only 7 minutes to zap all the parasite adults and their stages which cause your cells to multiply.
grind the tablet first by putting it in a plastic bag and rolling over it with a glass jar.
make their  choices clear: either the inside door to the garage gets sealed off or the cars and lawn  mower get parked outside and anything containing gasoline or solvents gets put  in a detached shed.
ask your loved one to ask their doctor (clinical doctor or trusted  medical advisor) the following question: "would it be better for my lungs  to stop smoking?"
hawthorn berry is an herb that opens blood vessels, particularly to the  heart.
perhaps some of the bizarre behavior and speech of intoxication is really due to the mold-alcohol combination.
in about five hours, some relief will be felt.
we can't expect that.
since the temperature may go higher than your regular oven, you can produce benzopyrenes.
use  her wooden spoons, glass glasses, and plain dishes, her wooden and straw bowls  and enamel pots and pans.
lesson one 466 white blood cells 468 making a white blood cell  specimen 469 lesson two 470 lesson three 470
tablets 3 times  a day, 9 altogether).
or to have a handy towel hanging from the refrigerator handle.
this should make the task easier.
48 goods baked in a panaderia (mexican style bakery) never tested positive to molds.
but | (meaning "yes".)
it's  like putting yeast into a bowl of warm water, flour and sugar.
if you waited another day the pulse could be below 60.
use nothing that you wouldn't use on a new-born baby.
weather changes, namely temperature changes make pipes expand or shrink-leaving cracks!
49 starter set of homeopathic remedies.
the stage is set and cancer is inevitable.
are there missing beats?
use whipping cream or butter (both boiled) if you need to gain weight.
the elderly have little side effects.
the cure for all diseases hulda regehr clark, ph.d., n.d. "give me three weeks and your oncologist will cancel your surgery!
seek  treatment elsewhere!
for long hair use a quart of rinse.
somewhere, over the years, you pick up the intestinal fluke in a hamburger or from a pet or person.
it is also allowable to use solvents to make spice oleoresins, which are used as flavoring.
zearalenone, a mycotoxin i find in popcorn, corn chips, and brown rice specifically inhibits detoxification of benzene.
let your body (your taste) decide on the amount of potassium chloride to add.
it may be preventing spasm of the bile ducts.
furniture should be wood, cane, or plastic, with cushions to soften the  impact.
improvements should not be dismissed  lightly.
chlorine from water (use carbon filters, remove bleach bottles)
later, in the brain, oxygen must jump off again to enter the brain cells.
these are excellent supplements, both in bulk and capsules, but not extracts, concentrates, or concoctions.
these are extra  dividends for your loved one.
so go back to your dentist, to search for a hidden infection under one or  more of your teeth, or where your teeth once were!
this fits  a lot more oxygen, o2, than round balls would.
as cool as their body temperature and comfort will allow.
but pull out any one of the links in this chain and cancer is impossible.
notice the energy lift your loved one gets from this most  primitive body cleanse.
we do not taste it because manufacturers have been using more and more flavorings in food.
try to give a cleanse once a month until the dark color of the stool returns and it no longer floats.
this improves spreadability and digestibility of the hard nut particles.
if "fresh" isn't possible, choose "frozen" but rinse the chemicals off before cooking.
the meal should always include something sour to curdle the milk.
there must be other ways.
the fruit may be chopped with whipping cream, cinnamon and honey sauce (not more than 1 tbs.
buy hot cereals that say "no salt added," like  cream of wheat, steel cut oats or old fashioned oats, millet, corn meal, cream  of rice, or wheatena.
toothpaste has toxic metals (tin, fluoride, strontium) besides benzene pollution.
you can go about it more persuasively.
stick to this for 24 hours, even if you feel better much sooner.
cook your supper from scratch.
the liver is deluged with the same set of pollutants time  after time and never gets a rest.
a return to linoleum floor covering for kitchen and bathroom and hardwood for other rooms would be a good step of progress for a health conscious society.
toxins at either location (especially food-derived toxins) tell the body to stop eating.
it takes about 1 day to dissolve completely.
especially if ethylene diamine tetra acetate (edta) is being used to remove  heavy metals, it is important to take the treatment over a two hour time  period.
kill the bacteria with a zapper,  cleanse the liver, and start the bowel program if this has already happened to  you.
evidently the immune power of such diseased locations is way down.
a small plastic dishpan, about 10" x 12" a glass or enamel 2-quart sauce pan 1 can of lye (sodium hydroxide), 12 ounces 3 pounds of lard (bht and bha are ok here)
other kinds of"anemia" can deprive your elderly person of oxygen.
being forced to feel cold is an undeserved misery of the aged.
double it and twist for extra strength.
all cold cereals i tested were full of mold toxins (besides solvents), health food varieties were worst.
rather than asking individual questions like these, let's ask only five general questions and have the assurance that one of them will catch the culprit.
learn what makes a good pet diet.
more liquid must be consumed.
these are the biggest  suspects: cfcs (from leaking refrigerant, check refrigerator and air conditioner by  removing them from the house and retesting the dust after three days, or simply  buy a non-cfc variety) vanadium (from leaking house gas from a fuel-line repair) arsenic from pesticide (switch to boric acid) solvent from a lamp or can of lighter fuel (take them out of the house)
try salads, an apple, raw  sunflower seeds (beware of moldy seeds, nuts and dried fruit).
by the time your doctor's  appointment arrives, you can be sure of a negative test.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++yes, this "baby  cold" will develop into a full blown cold if, +++but only if, you have a  mold in you!
toilet paper and tissues should be unfragranced, uncolored.
using denture cream is not a good substitute for correct fit and  is toxic.
food mold, particularly ergot, has the opposite effect of niacin.
50 all u.s.  brands of pasta i tested had mold, including health food brands like the one  shown here (left).
make  your own tomato sauce with pure herb seasoning, not from a jar or can (home  canned foods are fine, of course, as long as they are not made in a big  aluminum pot with aluminum-containing salt).
weakness weakness should not be taken for granted in the elderly.
think of the kidneys as a colander full of tiny holes of various sizes that let  certain things through them but not bigger things.
check into caffeine use first.
attend your loved one in person for the liver cleanse, have a commode at bedside, protect bedding from accident: use paper underwear if necessary.
but no soy ingredients and or sauces.
is there a new medicine (drug) or supplement?
drugs such as antivert(tm) are given but only take the edge off the problem.
pour off 1/8 cup now and drink it fresh.
cold body temperature is an invitation for fungus and viruses to multiply.
use it up in a few days, left in its paper bag.
does the stool float?
but we can get ourselves out of the path of the falling human tide.
every grain has its molds; every fruit has its molds; tea and coffee plants have their molds; as do all herbs, and vegetables.
black walnut hull tincture extra strength every  week or until your illness is but a hazy memory.
the mixture will get very hot.
if most of the urine is passed in  the night this reflects on unhealthy kidneys.
since alcohol evaporates and is expensive,  use a wide mouth jar with close fitting non-metal lid for all this.
select a warm climate where you can spend your time outdoors in the shade most of the day.
remove them to the garage.
check that the plumbing is relatively new and that no pesticide is being used.
you may add nuts if you rinse them in vitamin c water.
your house is taller and warmer than the garage so garage-air is pulled in and up as the warm air in the house rises.
emphasize baked pasta dishes, not boiled.
do this for a week before starting the  black walnut hull tincture.
sugar regulation diabetes is a common development in the elderly.
run tap water over them, drain the excess.
figure 41: u.s. regulations on sterilizing solutions.
open blood vessels wider by giving niacin.
experiment with new combinations to create different flavorful fruit and vegetable juices.
buy bakery bread or bake your own.
you will be able to resume your plans for education, professional life, personal relationships, free of the sword hanging over you.
(thursday plantation 100% pure tea tree oil antiseptic) tear out that page, put it on your refrigerator, and make a copy to stick on your medicine cabinet.
if your aging friend or relative is in a home for the elderly, you may be able to persuade him or her to choose a diet that is wiser than the average diet people eat there.
why  is| | | she digging that | | | up.
once the  mouth source is cleaned up, the bacteria do not come back to the heart (after  one last zapping).
and if you're sitting at the table do it in your sleeve if able.
testing the air 485 testing someone else 486 lesson eight 486 saliva testing  487 lesson nine 487 surrogate testing 488 lesson ten 489 lesson eleven 491  lesson twelve 492
get it down within 15 minutes.
add more of either to obtain the desired consistency.
fish or seafood hot dish.
don't "hide" your junk food in the refrigerator and lower  level cupboards!
use these for all purposes.
there are  three or four favorite homeopathic remedies for colds and eight or nine less  common ones.
if there are leftovers in the refrigerator or freezer, this helps.
owning a dog for a house pet was becoming an acceptable lifestyle.
you can only kill the outsiders: those stuck in your cell gateways.
you may cook the roots a third time if you wish, but the recipe gets less potent.
this gives the liver a chance to catch up with detoxifying  one pollutant while the new one builds up.
but it only makes us sicker if we harbor  molds.
light colored, roasted peanuts in the shell  had no aflatoxin.
is there abdominal pain?
salt is corrosive-don't use it for brushing metal teeth.
drugs such as  antivert(tm) are given but only take the edge off the problem.
milk or water glasses are picking up dust as soon as you set them out.
see the sources chapter.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++aging is necessary but chronic
a slow pulse can give weird brain symptoms besides great fatigue.
and the size  of the attack depends on whether you recently ate moldy food.
prepare it a day ahead.
gallstones, being porous, can pick up all the bacteria, cysts, viruses and parasites that are passing through the liver.
an enlightened system would be to add an antiseptic to the  wash or rinse cycle.
it's a valiant quest: the quest for health.
your elderly person will feel it is all  worthwhile (doing without coffee or pie) if one less insulin shot is needed or  if they can go back on tablets instead of insulin.
back to normal body wisdom was not meant to  substitute for parental teaching.
they are holes (cavities) left in the jawbone by an incompletely extracted tooth.
so they just  can't go about eating viruses.
the cleanest heat is electric.
(the goal for all larger parasites is to live quietly.
don't start with cans or packages or frozen items to make some recipe.
for cockroaches and other insects (except ants) sprinkle handfuls of boric acid (not borax) under your shelf paper, behind sink, stove, refrigerator, under carpets, etc.
the strong currents of air blow the dust about  continuously.
the reason is  not mysterious either.
but if your garage is attached, you have a problem.
84 microscope, slides and  coverslips.
the stool  is recolonized in one to two days.
at least it isn't  positively charged like metals; it can't set up an electric current nor a  magnetic field in your mouth, all of which may be harmful.
would communicating with  other cancer and aids survivors be useful?
pets have many of the same parasites that we get, including ascaris (common roundworm), hookworm, trichinella, strongyloides, heartworm and a variety of tapeworms.
lesson nine 487 surrogate testing 488 lesson ten 489 lesson eleven 491 lesson twelve 492 lesson thirteen 493 lesson fourteen 493
get yourself half a dozen different kinds so you can do different things.
old fashioned oats, with 1/4 tsp.
give it early in the morning,  upon rising, as soon as the feet are set on the floor.
always take vitamin b2 (three 100 mg tablets three times a day) and  vitamin c (1/8 tsp.
as fascinating as this whole story is, the bottom line is: how can you  stop a cold, in record time?
hot water with  whipping cream and cinnamon.
don't try to bring it up to 120 since this raises the stroke potential without giving you much improvement in performance.
there should be no redness near bones!
green peas or peas and onions.
the common cold 357 tapeworm stage or mites 357 molds and colds 360
never serve dessert if the plate has not been cleared.
i better | | | not say anything.|
keep moldy fruit out of the refrigerator where the spores can spread.
obviously, the need for a drug is gone.
remove everything that has any smell to it whatever: candles, potpourri, soaps, mending glue, cleaners, repair chemicals, felt markers, colognes, perfumes, and especially plug-in air "fresheners".
- keep your fingers out of your mouth.
why did they invade you so massively.
if you are not going to use all of them in this batch, you may freeze them in a resealable plastic bag.
do not have a freon containing refrigerator in your room.
always choose potatoes, because it is a vegetable instead of a grain, if you have a choice.
the best salt is a mixture of 1 part of your aluminum-free, sterilized sea salt and 1 part potassium chloride (another kind of salt, see sources).
in breast cancer, especially, you find that metals from dentalware have dissolved and accumulated in the breast.
dose of black walnut hull tincture extra strength.
it taints  the vinegar as well as apple juice and concentrate made from them.
move to a healthier dwelling!
43 grilled food has  benzopyrenes as do hot dogs and "smoke flavored" foods.
there should be no acidity in the lungs so oxygen can attach  here.
fresh vegetable juice made of raw green beans and carrots (1/2 cup total).
grated carrot salad with stewed  raisins added and heavy cream.
rinse millet in vitamin c water before cooking, or add vitamin c to the  cooking water.
don't run your drinking water through the freezer or fountain or refrigerator.
stir occasionally, baking until brown and dry, usually 1-2 hours.
acidity  unlatches oxygen.
on a day that you eat fish, you would not  need milk.
milk: 2% or higher, drink three 8 oz. glasses a day.
after shampooing, fill the container with water and rinse.
drink 1/8 cup 4 times/day, until a total of l/2 cup of chips is consumed.
certainly, it is enough to cause mental effects in an elderly person.
they allow invaders into the most jealously guarded recess of your being: your genes.
patulin patulin is the major fruit mold toxin.
cysts are the "eggs" made by parasites.
all dirt brought into the  house by shoes gets circulated throughout the house by forced air systems of  heating or cooling.
never let the trigger food be eaten again.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++pets are so full of parasites, you must be quite careful not to deparasitize too quickly.
save the roots after the first boiling, storing them in the freezer.
aluminum objects that must be touched should be wrapped in masking tape: this includes walker, shower door, bathroom supports.
let your loved one express feelings about it.
(remember, no metal must be left under the crown.)
about the 18th day, complete loss of the hair on the body and head may occur.
do you place mercury fillings?
it is not in baked goods  bought at bakeries, left open to air.
take vitamin b2 immediately to help detoxify benzene (three 100 mg.
keep your toxic things in the  attic.
add cinnamon to flavor, or frozen fruit and honey.
all dairy products that have only been pasteurized are still contaminated.
walking is a brisk  exercise, done as speedily as possible and lasting at least 1/2 hour.
never, never your hands unless you are free to immediately dash into the washroom and clean the contamination off your hands.
suppose the water proves toxic (appears in your white blood cells);
try to identify the new item.
you will also learn why your child got encephalitis or other disease and how to prevent it forever.
if a food tastes bad, don't eat it.
and your weakened immune system lets everything gain a foothold in your body.
pay for someone to sit-someone who is recognized.
be careful to keep all alcohol out of sight of children; don't rely on discipline for this.
lugol's lodine solution 559 vitamin d drops 560 pathogen frequencies 561  bandwidth of organism families 562 mold, mold toxin frequencies 562 bacteria  and viruses 563 roundworms, flatworms, one-celled animals 566 wart frequencies  569 tapeworms 569 mite frequencies 570 miscellaneous frequencies 571 toxic  elements 571 solvents 574 pathogen frequency chart 576 sources 581finale
the lungs treat them like toxins to be coughed up or removed by the kidneys and immune system.
remove all bruises (this is where the patulin is).
books suggest that you start with a 6x or a 12x remedy, but  success is more certain with 30x. use three remedies simultaneously.
wheat germ smells terrible (rancidity).
parsley water, black walnut, wormwood, and cloves.
the body makes tumors  out of them in order to stop them from cutting through your tissue.
sit down with them to find out their  stories.
make it a rule to buy your batteries at the same hearing aid office where they are cleaned free of charge.
with the food bacteria, salmonellas and shigella, out of the way and parasites being killed regularly, you can focus attention on the adrenals which control potassium levels.
cut paper towels in quarters and stack in a closable plastic box.
there is no need to add so much it affects the flavor.
asbestos, fiberglass, freon, radon and plain dust can be reduced to a minimum  by keeping windows open.
cocoa and chocolate, also, have too much oxalic acid to be used as beverages.
it may be called  "congestive heart failure".
i have found ergot and aflatoxin in beer and wine!
do not cook over flames or grill, even when electric.
be very careful not to leave the bottle where a child or alcoholic person could find it.
grilled  food, smoked food, hot dogs and lunch meats with "smoke flavor" all  have benzopyrenes - even toast has it.
yes, you will catch the virus, but you won't get sick.
parasites as varied as tapeworm stages and  mites.
dental cleanup (this section on dentistry was contributed by frank jerome, dds.)
as the thymus deteriorates from its benzene burden so does your immunity.
the diseases caused by these are not as frightening, perhaps, as cancer, but entirely avoidable.
zap your pet along  with yourself by holding them and touching a bare spot such as nose or paw.
this sheet is 1/8 inch thick and washable.
only make up enough for a month.
the  liver cleanse, it seems, gives them new thirst as well as new appetite.
but when these stages +++are transmitted to a cancer patient, they  immediately seek out the +++cancerous organ again.
your malignancy is stopped.
drink the potion you have mixed.
all colognes, after shave, anything you can smell must be removed.
because i consider freon to be the top health hazard in our home, i recommend turning in your refrigerator for a non-cfc variety.
keep a small notebook to write down these improvements.
count them all roughly, whether tan or green.
it is common to find a crowned tooth to  be very weak and not worth replacing the crown, particularly if you are already  having a partial made and could include this tooth in it.
hepatitis and  cirrhosis cases always reveal aflatoxin.
or you drink from the same glass as a person with a cold?
don't buy a wheelchair if  your loved one can still walk with your help.
the metal is ground up very finely and added to the plastic in order to make it harder, give it sheen, color, etc.
over 50 case histories of cured hiv victims are the subject of another book (the cure for hiv and aids by the same author, promotion publishing, 1993) along with more detailed instructions and suggestions.
you'll hold your nose at all seeds and nuts and most flour (they smell so rancid).
- water with a tsp. of vinegar and honey.
when you get better on vacation, let that be your inspiration to move from your home.
laboratory salt label.
peel and chop the fruit.
squeeze the grapefruit by hand into the measuring cup.
these are toxic besides!
wouldn't it be nice if they could all go back to gardening  or some other primitive and useful endeavor?
like horse and wagon the heart provides the power and the kidneys follow.
mark your calendar and count off the days.
avoiding benzene will restore your immunity.
makes about 4 servings.
each), 1 or 2 b50 complex, vitamin  c (1,000 mg.
they are still a nutritious, vitamin c-rich food-provided you don't fry them in benzene-polluted, hydrogenated grease!
put the powder mix in a  plastic (not styrofoam) cup, add honey and stir until you get a paste.
chemically pure baking soda and close tightly.
if your elderly  loved one has a red-looking mouth or throat, instead of pink, an infection is  going on in spite of no coughs and no complaints.
is the human species doomed, or will some of us "adapt".
the cause  must be found.
surgically shortening the bands that hold the bladder in position (called bladder "lifting") can give temporary relief, but the surgeon may be the first to tell you that it is a temporary fix.
of course, paper is best, but  in emergency use cloth.
to make the lipstick stay on longer, apply 1 layer of lipstick, then dab some corn starch over the lips, then apply another layer of lipstick.
use food-grade hydrogen peroxide (see sources) if you have only plastic fillings.
another reason for propyl alcohol pollution (and other pollutants) in our food are the chemicals used by manufacturers to sterilize their food handling equipment.
now we must cook thoroughly any beef, chicken or turkey.
ask to  see your crowns when they are removed.
pour 1/2 cup (measured) olive oil into the pint jar.
put washcloth in laundry after a single use.
milk, however, requires stomach acid to curdle it as the first step in  digestion.
don't handle metal unconsciously throughout the day.
this  reduces the body's oxygen supply and the disorder is called 'pernicious"  anemia.
ask that the milk  be boiled for ten seconds and other foods that can't be sterilized are not on  the menu, like sour cream.
but it was absent in fresh corn, canned corn, corn tortillas, and white rice, making me wonder how it gets in our processed corn products.
be sure to drink plenty of plain water from your cold faucet throughout the day, especially if it is difficult for you to drink it with your meals.
83 table of the future.
switch to butter and cream, with meals.
the first few nights may be disturbed by extra urination.
none of us can remember how things were in precivilized times.
and washing and  peeling does away with them.
1 cup milk, 1 banana.
finally, learn how to make your own diagnostic and treatment devices.
the amount of urine  produced or the weight of the person can be used to assess how effective your  method is.
the body cannot get enough cleansing action from less  than four cups.
the result is that you can be eating rotten moldy food  without knowing it.
the wagon will wear out sooner with jerky pulling.
cadmium is five times as toxic as lead, and is strongly linked to high blood pressure.
be sure to test everything eaten in a two week time period: unusual things like popcorn, candy, crackers, cookies, health foods and special powders.
or to eat a last bite of something.
gas  heat, gas stoves and gas water heaters are notoriously leaky.
calcium losses increase in old age.
if the excitement of a night out keeps him or her from sleeping use ornithine and valerian capsules.
the ca-125 or psa test will not drop to normal unless  you begin to heal them.
remember, they also have  a diuretic effect.
hands do everything.
dinner choose any one.
we must listen to the elderly when they say milk gives them gas or other troubles.
if you see it has a good effect on  your loved one, give several a day.
salt water plus grain alcohol or food-grade hydrogen peroxide makes a good denture-soak.
variety is the spice of life, so combine the allowed foods in the most creative ways you can imagine.
by supper you should feel recovered.
day 1: take one capsule 3 times a day before meals.
it does not contain aluminum as regular detergents and soaps do, and which probably contribute to alzheimer's disease.
then add lemon juice and store in the refrigerator.
get a sturdy juicer and make your juice about half carrot juice and half from vegetables like celery, squash, lettuce, and broccoli.
after this, you may proceed more slowly if you wish.
pots and pans are  sanitized with hot water, not chemicals.
if the pipes are not accessible, ask a plumber to lay an extra line, outside the walls.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ you may be wondering why you  should wait for five days before taking the 2 tsp. dose.
the various molds i have tested had these emitting frequencies: 77,  88, 100, 126, 133, 177, 181, 188, 232, 242, 277, 288, 295 khz.
use a wooden spoon handle to stir.
sometimes the real damage was only seen after three weeks!
washing hands and face in chlorinated water can give off enough chlorine  to trigger a manic episode in a manic-depressive person.
but you can  reinfect with a single soft grape.
every other week to +++avoid reinfecting you.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ your sweat is odorless.
sometimes you feel the viral attack, sometimes you don't.
slowly and carefully add the lye, a little bit at a time, stirring it with a wooden or plastic utensil.
+++a weight-loss diet must wait at  least two years.
you will also learn why your  child got encephalitis or other disease and how to prevent it forever.
try to discover how you might have picked up parasites and avoid them next time.
add other ingredients and stir until dissolved.
it may even clear your skin of blemishes and stop your scalp from itching.
- hair spray has propyl alcohol and pcbs.
be careful not to get the lotion into your eyes when applying it.
pink dentures change to  clear plastic porcelain denture teeth change to plastic denture teeth
your warts can fall off.
if you did not prepare this ahead of time, mix 1 tbs.
if these acids burn the skin, dilute them more.
better laundry habits boil your underwear.
you pray that your child's immunity will overcome it.
the ureters lead to the bladder.
a university chemistry library should have this book.
aluminum objects that must be touched should  be wrapped in masking tape: this includes walker, shower door, bathroom  supports.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++you may not need to get rid of  your pet to keep yourself free of +++parasites.
peel everything so you can see and avoid every bruise.
(before this, it was marooned in the parathyroids, thymus, and other organs.)
always add vitamin c to pasta before or after cooking.
- don't use commercial lotions or personal lubricants.
our parents were supposed to teach us in childhood to distinguish between good and bad food.
just stopping drinking the coffee,  decaf, iced tea and carbonated beverages that are served, and switching to the  recipes in this book could get them off some of their medicines.
note: the amount of sodium in 1/2 tsp.
none of the beverage recipes in this chapter are conducive to stone formation.
now they are back to a natural state and do not host human flukes.
this also gets you away from the benzalkonium chloride and possibly other antiseptics in the bag itself.
is it in the medicines or supplements?
delivering  poisonous house gas to our homes in pipes that are not fail-safe is an archaic  practice.
your electronic technique can detect them in your body long before you are made ill by them.
keep refrigerated and use promptly.
there  should be no redness near bones!
the  water should not be cold and should have nothing added to make it a beverage.
but the aids is not gone.
calcium should be in the form of  milk, magnesium as a tablet.
stomach acid the body produces hydrochloric acid (hcl) which gets pushed into the  stomach from the blood!
this kills these bowel fungi.
don't be surprised if you cave in a few times to some super  ruse they use on you.
tea has 15.6 mg oxalic acid per cup (taken from "food values" 14ed by pennington and church 1985).
breathing it is  not so damaging.
you may add a chip of lemon peel for fragrance.
taking drugs  proves that.
cytochalasin b cytochalasin b  ("cyto b") is another immune lowering fungus.
this  can stain some things.
close off the ventilation between utility room and the rest of your house.
you will need to go off every cosmetic and body product that you are now using.
diabetics, asthmatics,  arthritics, especially, suffer from total body acidity.
if a food tastes bad,  don't eat it.
modern cloth  furniture with its foam interior is a repository of filth and fumes and a  constant source of infectious dust.
less will be absorbed if you powder the skin with cornstarch first.
they could also be searched for using immunological methods.
try to have them analyzed for thallium using the most sensitive methods available, possibly at a research institute or university.
it is as different as corn  on the cob is from the canned variety.
when you do a lot of  dental repair in a short time, it can seem to be costly.
except dishes with tofu or msg. fruit cup with honey and cinnamon.
it is for your convenience only.
buy a new toothbrush.
they alone taste the bitterness of pit, a cyanide-related chemical, and very difficult for the liver to metabolize.
if you search for adenovirus, though, in your dust sample, it isn't there!
the only other alternative is to move to a safer environment.
elderberry tea mixed with peppermint is cited in herbal textbooks and it could probably do a lot if it weren't for the mold immunosuppression.
if the fluke eggs and other stages go through their development in your  breast it can become breast cancer.
the  counter and table top have on them whatever is in the kitchen dust and on the  wipe cloth.
they give off asbestos if their paint is old.
use plain water or vinegar water (50%), not a chemical combination which further pollutes the air.
have no refrigerator, air conditioner, clothes dryer, hair dryer, new clothing, detergent.
- pancakes or waffles with artificial maple syrup made with brown sugar and vitamin c. - 1 cup herb tea with vitamin c, cinnamon, or other spice.
let your children eat the polluted foods that friends and restaurants serve (but not rare-cooked meats) so they can experience the difference.
there may only be a few parts per billion, but a sick person trying to get well cannot afford any solvent intake.
after all, rabies virus comes to us from animals, and many encephalitis viruses come from mosquitoes.
they are usually sitting around a room, eating  their lunch and reading as their iv's drip.
these herbs are so fresh, you'll only need half as much to make a cup of tea.
does it affect humans the same way?
ergot a food mold that causes strange feelings and behavior is ergot.
it should not be used while the elderly person is in  the house and never for his or her laundry.
with hearing aids that hear, and kidneys that flush and a heart that beats  strongly, your elderly person may choose to attend concerts again, go to church  or gatherings-and leave you out of the picture.
if you can only find several of those in the recipe, make the recipe anyway; it will just take longer to get results.
emphasize fish for animal food, not beef,  pork, turkey or chicken.
vitamin c - plastic wrap or cellophane - glass jars or bottles the black walnut tree produces large green balls in fall.
they are forced to eat carrots, peas, and other vegetables; vegetables that taste terrible, (modern agriculture has ruined the flavor).
you want salt plus crunch. - potato chips.
pancakes and waffles made from scratch would be o.k. combining alcohol with ergot is more toxic than either is alone.
molds and bacteria that grow right on the air conditioning unit get blown about for all to inhale.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ these are minimum dosages.
if you wish to make soap based on olive oil, use about 48 ounces.
to wax the floor, get the wax from the garage and put it back there.
immediately start the bowel program (page 546) in case yours is an e.  coli cold.
brain blood vessels are made narrower, cutting down the oxygen supply.
if you find a recipe that works for everybody in less than five hours, be sure to let everybody know.
your loved one isn't hungry enough.
the real reason why nothing, not even surgery, is permanent is that the support bands are weak.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++during the day, set the sponge  on end to start drying and +++slow down culturing.
in view of this, as i found a polluted bottle, i stopped using any more of that brand.
and if you're sitting at the table do it in  your sleeve if able.
forced air heating systems are undesirable, too.
this acid is not as strong, use what you need.
they supply vinegar and are often loved by persons with little acid in their stomachs or a lot of yeast (vinegar is a yeast inhibitor).
a pregnant woman puts herself on a pickled pigs feet and white bread diet.
they should give themselves the  same de-parasitizing program.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++all dosages are based on a 10 pound (5 kilo) cat or dog.
vegetable salads don't eat the croutons, bacon bits, and anything that doesn't look fresh.
mix this three parts everclear to one part water.
if your loved constantly has cold hands or feed,  try to improve circulation.
will some of us survive to pass  on our "better" genes to a new population of cancer-resistant,  aids-resistant, alzheimer's-resistant, etc.-resistant humans?
dry skin has several causes: too much water contact, too much soap contact (switch to borax), low body temperature, not enough fat in the diet, or parasites.
however at this point it only yields positive or negative results,  it does not quantify.
the nerves controlling the hands and arms are poisoned.
you might fail to get stones out if you don't.
incredibly, it also eliminates shoulder, upper arm, and upper back pain.
if there are leftovers in the  refrigerator or freezer, this helps.
as the thymus deteriorates from its benzene burden so  does your immunity.
if you must have softening after all this, check into the new magnetic varieties of water softener (although they only work well when used with plastic plumbing).
at these locations, bowel bacteria,  e. coli and shigella, can climb through the colon wall to invade you.
bring a commode  near the bed for the night, rather than diapering your loved one (but don't  call them diapers; say "underwear").
killing the dog's parasites twice a week with a zapper would be very helpful to you.
if the pulse is quite high, over 100 perhaps, this will wear the heart out  much sooner than necessary.
kill parasites,  avoid wood alcohol, use chromium tablets and a lot of cinnamon.
these are  called temporary ischemic attacks (tia's).
however it does contain sorghum mold and must be treated with vitamin c to detoxify it.
only the nervous system does not divide.
the drinking water should always have a little vitamin c, lemon juice or  vinegar added, and 1 tsp.
remember that eating  bacteria and killing them later will not solve the problem.
especially for children, who will be faced with new viruses and parasites in their lifetimes.
you may want to prepare ahead and refrigerate your dressings and toppings.
the spray isn't simple, of course.
if you plan on trying these start with a set of thyme, fenugreek, sage (for throat).
baking and browning  is never done above 425 degrees f. this is your safety feature.
strain the juice and serve it on ice with sprigs of mint.
cook real potatoes, not instant varieties.
name it after yourself.
sit down with them to find out their stories.
place in a resealable baggy.
about the 18th day, complete loss  of the hair on the body and head may occur.
but you  can break into this cycle and get it all reversed again.
add this to the olive oil.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++zap yourself every day for  three seven minute periods, +++until after you are completely well.
when your loved one is in the mood to talk about dying, listen.
b6 and other vitamins are also involved and can be given as a b-complex (see the sources chapter).
(1 gram) with each meal.
lie down immediately.
a consolation is that you will find a number of bad foods that are not necessarily the tremor causes but which cause other health problems.
unfortunately, the shot itself may contain traces of this harmful  solvent-take a sample home for testing.)
bread is such a staple we must correct its mold problem immediately.
especially when the blood test shows a high "total co2" level, near the upper limit, search for an air pollutant like house gas or auto fumes.
purchase a device that needs no adjustments of any kind and has automatic cuff tension control (see mail order catalogs if your pharmacy does not have one).
flush out the alcohol with two pitchers of water.
your goal is to not need any drug diuretics.
cloves: 3 capsules (about 500 mg.
use it up in a few days or boil to sterilize it again.
make it yourself or ask your pharmacist to make it up for you.
if you have a large bridge, it cannot be replaced with a plastic bridge  because it isn't strong enough.
and read the sections in this book on pulse (page 289) and
removing toxins  which invite them into your organs is even more fundamental.
dr. clark: composites with barium are not good, but i haven't seen enough  barium toxicity from fillings at this time to merit advising extraction  instead.
56 smooth floors allow every bit of dust to be removed.
they are hampered in their tasks.
your elderly person will feel it is all worthwhile (doing without coffee or pie) if one less insulin shot is needed or if they can go back on tablets instead of insulin.
you may have to cut it in half!
hydrogen peroxide lets you do this.
if it is used as an ingredient, it is on the label, easy for you to avoid.
you may add a pinch of ginger or other pure spice.
indeed, they may have been there for ten  years.
asparagus is fresh, frozen or canned.
find a dentist with experience and knowledge about this subject.
the debate still rages over mercury amalgam fillings.
standing water picks up bacteria.
vitamin c powder (ascorbic acid, not the same as citric acid).
by the sixth day you will have convinced yourself there is no toxicity or side effects.
since boric acid is white, you must be careful not to mistake it for sugar accidentally.
benzopyrenes must be detoxified using the liver's valuable benzene-detoxification system.
the growth of industrial activity, mining, chemical manufacturing, the food "industry", and personal habits like smoking have spread new chemicals to every corner of the globe.
save the carrot pulp for salads and soups.
don't pollute the air with fresh flowers, potpourris, or room fresheners.
bacteria are always at the root of bowel problems, such as pain, bloating and gassiness.
they are usually sitting around a room, eating their lunch and reading as their iv's drip.
simply refrigerating them does not keep them from turning black and useless.
never shake bedding or rugs where the  dust will blow back into the house behind you.
now all the pathogens are on your hands!
keep track of this twice a day with a modern electronic finger device (not an arm cuff that itself can break blood vessels).
unpolluted breakfast cereals.
door knobs, taped walker handles, and cane handles should be wiped daily  with a grain alcohol solution.
just drop the whole lemon in the tank so it can't block the hoses.
while you are  learning, observe the rules perfectly.
the steer, too, has its feed provided, its water  provided, its shelter for the night provided, seemingly the best time it ever  had.
will they be able to  overcome them or succumb at middle age?
they might get well enough to long for a genuine  relationship again.
nickel usually from dental metal.
you may add more water or  honey or a spice to make it more palatable.
remember propyl alcohol is also called propanol, isopropanol, isopropyl alcohol and rubbing alcohol.
but if your hand still senses cold  feet, the thermostat must still go higher.
escape to a suitable climate that makes this possible.
- chewing tobacco has ytterbium.
use homemade salad dressing with a preference for oil and vinegar styles.
when the salmonellas spread out further to invade the diaphragm around the sphincter, the diaphragm weakens, and lets a bit of the stomach up through the hole.
this is a main source of propyl alcohol.
taking drugs proves that.
is there a new  food?
if the elderly person is on a heart-slowing drug, check the pulse twice a  day after zapping to make sure it doesn't drop too low.
they are  holes (cavities) left in the jawbone by an incompletely extracted tooth.
be sure all dairy foods, including butter and whipping cream, are sterilized.
they should smoke outdoors, blow-dry their hair outdoors or in the garage, use nail polish and polish remover outdoors or in the garage.
64 ugly metal in mouth.
this is a fascinating avenue that i have not yet explored.
(the pink color is from mercury or cadmium which is added to the plastic.)
this will begin to regulate your elimination.
(the correct answer is yes.
many polio sufferers also had migraines.
sardines and rice bread or other wheat free, corn free bread.
home-made salad dressing can be added.
grains have a more tortuous history than  potatoes that simply get sprayed.
as soon as you open a cereal grain, put the whole box in a plastic bag to keep moisture out.
spread thinly on a baking sheet and bake 20-25 minutes.
fresh green beans, especially fava beans contain a substance that is  described in old herbal literature to be especially beneficial to diabetics.
both heartworm and loa loa are very easy to kill with a zapper and both are very easy to pick up again.
fenugreek and thyme are the most beneficial of the common cooking herbs.
this causes hiatal hernia distress.
lugol's is perfectly safe (if not allergic) to take day after day, when needed, because of its peculiar attaching property.
do not sleep in a bedroom that is paneled or has wallpaper.
we rely on government agency assurances, like beef grades, expiration  dates, approved food colors and additives.
- a child prefers canned spaghetti for the real thing.
hearing loss is too subtle to leave to chance; have the hearing aids cleaned each time you buy fresh batteries (about three months).
lemon juice or vinegar can be put in certain foods but the most reliable way to get it into the diet is to put 1 tablespoon into the water glass along with a teaspoon of honey.
the salts corrode the pipes so the pipes begin to seep cadmium into the water.
killing all your invaders is just the first step, though.
their body  wisdom guides them.
unless they pull evenly, the wagon feels jerky, and irregular.
this allows the bile to build up and develop pressure in the liver.
it has benzopyrene and tungsten.
it takes pressure, namely strength, to push the  blood through them so wastes and extra water can be let down the kidney tube.
you were born primitive - with health.
for shinier hair, drop a bit of lemon peel into the bottle.
it gives off formaldehyde.
this  dose kills any remaining stages throughout the body, including the bowel  contents, a location unreachable by electric current.
the egg carton and egg exterior have salmonella on them, so remove the eggs, replace the carton, wash the exterior of the eggs and then your hands again before cracking them.
cut down on drug diuretics gradually, using only 3/4 dose the first day, then 1/2 dose, then 1/4 dose.
get a sturdy juicer and make your juice about half carrot  juice and half from vegetables like celery, squash, lettuce, and broccoli.
if many people can live to 100 years, then surely this is the human life  span, not three score and ten.
this repays them and serves the elderly best.
this growth factor,  ortho-phospho-tyrosine (and possibly, also, epidermal growth factor and  insulin-dependent growth factor) really begins your cancer.
rush to clear it up, yourself, first.
the chlorine bleach is stored in the garage.
don't use your mother's aluminum ware; use her enamel ware or the new glass and ceramic ware.
if you eat  cheese it will add salmonella to your illness and you may develop a fever.
these are caused by  strongyloides, a horse threadworm.
it is not in baked goods bought at bakeries, left open to air.
but only if you stop drinking tea.
dr. jerome: the philosophy of dental treatment taught in america is that teeth are to be saved by whatever means available, using the strongest, most long lasting materials.
i learned so much from each of you and i appreciate your confidence,  your intelligence and your reluctance to be defeated.
sorghum molds sorghum and millet carry these.
pour the whole mixture into a 4 ounce bottle of homemade skin softener.
the information that comes with dental supplies does not list them either.
always clean up after a bowel movement with wet toilet paper.
and you have learned which things to avoid for  yourself too.
mold avoidance we should be much more critical of our food.
safe substitutes for personal products.
when your loved one is drinking three cups  of milk (or buttermilk or whey) a day and three cups of water, there will be no  room (nor request) for the usual coffee and tea and other bad beverages.
hands not only  provide moisture but often food from the last meal.
it takes two things, together, to give you cancer: propyl alcohol and the human intestinal fluke parasite.
if the glass jar has a metal lid, first put plastic wrap over the top before screwing on the lid.
it is a matter of digestibility and lack of toxicity.
possibly, it is too faint; it must multiply and create a loud chorus before you can hear it.
don't listen to the new doomsayers, who persuade you nothing can be done unless a gene is replaced.
yes, they deserve pure food, they deserve variety.
dare to try these new ideas and your illness promises to recede.
they are very contagious.
if you have consumed alcohol, like a can of beer, nad  enzymes must be shared between the alcohol in the beer and the benzene in the  beer.
ask the dentist to give you the grindings.
here is some good news for cooks: if you bake it yourself, adding a bit of  vitamin c to the dough, your breads will be mold free for an extended period  (and rise higher).
try to get  cooperation.
popular stain resistance  treatments contain arsenic.
mixing potassium salt with regular salt, half and half, for the shaker is another easy trick, even if you only use it in cooking where the taste cannot be detected.
your body, though, recognizes these sharp, pointed bits and tries to stop their spread by sequestering them in cysts.
it is not surprising they are getting  cancer with increasing frequency, a situation where the liver can no longer  detoxify isopropyl alcohol, a common pollutant in their food.
it comes in very light to heavy textures.
the main minerals for  this purpose are calcium and magnesium.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++on the day that the mite stops beeping, +++the day it dies, adenovirus appears!
should disclosure of foreign origins of food ingredients be mandatory?
sip it, don't gulp it.
don't try to bring it up to 120 since this raises the  stroke potential without giving you much improvement in performance.
we need more disclosure on our products.
make it a rule to buy  your batteries at the same hearing aid office where they are cleaned free of  charge.
dust mites live on our dander (scales of dead skin).
try to discover how you might have picked up parasites and avoid  them next time.
let your  family and other caretakers know you are no longer supplying these items (the  car keys, the wine bottle, the codeine-containing pain pills).
use 4 or 5 drops on your toothbrush.
less sweets are consumed if you dip the fruit rather than pour the sauce over.
in the old days this was called dropsy.
in other words, the toxic effect prevents you from detoxifying wood alcohol.
many variations are possible: other fruit concentrates, made in the blender, can be used along with some lemon juice; for example, 2 blended whole apples (peeled), blended pineapple, orange or grapefruit.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ this procedure contradicts many modern medical viewpoints.
zap a second time for seven minutes to kill those viruses and  bacteria.
pets  teach health lessons dogs don't eat hay and cats don't eat fruit.
acute poisoning results in  swelling of the feet and legs, arthralgia, vomiting, insomnia, hyperesthesia  and paresthesia [numbness] of the hands and feet, mental confusion,  polyneuritis with severe pains in the legs and loins, partial paralysis of the  legs with reaction of degeneration, angina-like pains, nephritis, wasting and  weakness, and lymphocytosis and eosinophilia.
adding lemon or vinegar (white distilled) and 1 tsp.
no elderly person would be able to drink more than one cup of milk at a time.
(drinking water within minutes of sitting upright may also move the bowels soon.)
after 13 days when your supply runs low, boil the same roots a second time, but add only 6 cups water and simmer only 10 minutes.
so drugs  are the immediate choice.
hearing loss is too  subtle to leave to chance; have the hearing aids cleaned each time you buy  fresh batteries (about three months).
+++ +++aids stands for acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
only one useful reaction with freon comes to mind.
keep the vents to the bedrooms closed to reduce the air turbulence  there but leave the cold air return open.
add vitamin c to honey, pasta and cooked cereals.
that was my universal advice.
asbestos, fiberglass, freon, radon and plain dust can be reduced to a minimum by keeping windows open.
people who must use fragrance should apply it outdoors to keep the  indoor air less poluted.
pick up the dust with a few wipes by a small, two inch square of damp paper towel.
why  did they invade you so massively.
in addition to use on food processing equipment and utensils, this solution may be used on beverage containers, including milk containers and equipment and on food-contact surfaces in public eating places.
burning and numbness 253 depression 256 manic depression 257 schizophrenia 261 autism 263 digestion problems 266 alzheimer's 269 dementias, memory loss 272pushing back age 275 diet 275 increase oxygen 278 niacin 279 tia's, strokes and purpura 281 blood pressure 281 air pollution 282 anemia 285 acid levels 287 increase minerals 287 chelation 289 pulse 289 heart health 290 incontinence 293 bad digestion 295
do not purse or rub your lips together after application.
in general, xenobiotic compounds (foreign) are  to be avoided!
if appetite is very poor, sweets will only worsen the  problem.
add finely chopped apples (peeled) and a few apple seeds and whipping cream for the dressing.
yet, if there isn't enough  vitamin b12, the dimple isn't put into them to make them doughnut shaped.
going faster: in fact, if you are convinced after the first drop of the restorative powers of black walnut hull tincture extra strength, take the 2 tsp.
you want your kidneys, bladder and urinary tract in top working condition so they can efficiently remove any undesirable substances incidentally absorbed from the intestine as the bile is being excreted. ->
- homemade pudding or  custard, all ingredients well cooked.
each different kind of cancer means the  developmental stages of the intestinal fluke are present there.
you may never find out what caused this.
add honey to sweeten.
they were meant to pass their thousands of eggs with your bowel movement, outside, to some pond where snails live.
replace the  filter with a foam sheet.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ if you have managed to free your loved one from having to take pills or from certain disabilities that would soon require pills, you can give yourself great credit.
a hot meat dish (no pasta, no wheat flour, no regular gravy) can be fried,  cooked or baked, but not grilled.
gone are the fruit juices, flour mixes, crackers and  sweets that fill grocery shelves.
- a young man needs  "his" beer to enjoy a cook-out.
they contain very toxic solvents due to careless, unregulated production methods.
don't  eat the peels.
like a cat that moves her kittens to a safer place, just move.
this can  result in an aversion to meat.
bread cannot be salvaged.
remove staphs by doing the dental cleanup (page 409).
work in sips during the meal.
cancer could be completely eliminated in the entire country if laws required testing for solvents in animal feeds and human food and products.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ keep powdered vitamin c in a salt shaker.
rinse millet in vitamin c water before cooking, or add vitamin c to the cooking water.
once infected, the tiny worms do not leave  your body on their own.
in the past, 2/3 of a teaspoon (60 drops) of lugol's was the standard dose of iodine given to persons with thyroid disease.
life was indeed becoming more urban with horse manure on all streets.
low blood pressures are  often due to toxins from foods.
use a dishpan in the sink.
40 products with propyl alcohol.
reduce it if it seems too large to swallow.
pound with a hammer; then roll finer with a big glass jar.
i never see  coxsackie viruses without the bacteria, bacteroides fragilis, and i never see  bacteroides fragilis without ascaris (a roundworm.)
look for a common one at the next attack.
dr. jerome: many people (and dentists too) believe that porcelain is a good substitute for plastic.
give it early in the morning, upon rising, as soon as the feet are set on the floor.
dissolve 1 tablet in grain alcohol or vodka.
go to see for yourself what chelation is all about.
chelation chelation is a powerful way to quickly improve oxygenation of blood.
insomnia is always associated with high levels of parasites and bacteria.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++never diet during illness +++  +++this is a rule based on common sense.
blueberry pie, sweet  potato pie, custard pie.
touching the infected person is not very damaging either; the pathogens can't  get through our skins and since we wash hands before eating we are not at great  risk of infection this way.
not even soap belongs on your eyelids!
food grade alcohol solution kills them.
u.s. bread flour is quite free of mold; the mold in our pastas must come from using inferior quality flour.
this is absorbed by the skin and adds to the toxin level.
let them choose from a display of six kinds.
then it disappears, evidently eaten up by your white blood cells, provided there is no mold toxin in you.
lemon juice from a lemon or 1/4 tsp citric acid (this is optional) 1 cup water heat the water to steaming in a non-metal pan.
blend briefly (about 10 seconds), not long enough to make butter!
14 tooth numbering system.
vitamin b6, 250 mg, and b-complex, 50 mg.
don't have pets in the house or keep them on daily parasite killing herbs.
all  breads i tested had mold if they were in plastic.
this is why heart medicine and diuretics are commonly given together.
the "goods" always win; manufacturers don't stop until they do.
of course, the chlorine  bleach bottle should not be kept under the sink.
it takes nutritious food to build the blood back up to its normal hemoglobin level.
after this, you take 7 capsules once a week forever, as it states in the maintenance parasite program.
this will last another 8 days, for a total of three weeks.
if you can't unpollute your air, water, carpets, furniture, move.
another reason for propyl alcohol pollution (and other pollutants) in our  food are the chemicals used by manufacturers to sterilize their food handling  equipment.
once infected, the tiny worms do not leave your body on their own.
in fact you simply have moist aluminum stuck in your skin which your immune system must remove.
instead add these to a bucket (about four gallons) of water and use it as the cleaning solution: wash water rinse water 1/3 cup borax 1/4 cup grain alcohol 2 tsp.
just cook two or three vegetables for lunch and eat them with butter and salt or homemade sauces.
boric acid 1/4 cup white distilled vinegar or 4 tsp.
are high estrogen levels a  problem for us?
humankind has been eating these natural fats long before  cholesterol was vilified.
it helps the liver, and possibly other organs, detoxify things.
test in a saliva sample for all the sweetenings used recently (at least an hour ago).
in fact, the mechanism, inability by the liver to keep up with detoxification, fits well into the "allergic" concept.
keep your elderly person warmly dressed, away from air conditioner or fan drafts, but keep it cool.
of hot, cold, or filtered water into a resealable baggy with a bit of paper towel in it.
there are numerous other "cold bugs" left for you to track.
bacteria, coming from teeth and jaw (bone infections, called cavitations) may not seem as recent as two weeks.
vegetable juice: fresh or frozen only.
it is too dangerous to buy a commercially prepared solution.
this will be the most polluted and dangerous room in your house.
- cold cereal,  including granola and health brands - toothpaste, including health brands - ice  cream and frozen yogurt - rice cakes, even the plain ones - chewing gum - pills  and capsules.
that bring you eye color, not eye disease.
humans leave enough dander behind in these places to support these ultra small insects.
remember that killing a mosquito does not remove the lump it caused.
maybe they're letting too much potassium chloride through, too.
supply it to  the home, too.
if your digestion isn't strong enough for raw vegetables or fruit, make juice.
to do this in the easiest way, pour 1 or 2 quarts milk into an enamel double boiler or microwavable glass jar.
ultimately, the length of time your own white blood cells are bound and gagged decides how soon you are really cured of your cold.
this got them away from accumulations of filth and rubbish in their living space.
even a slight drop in sodium  and potassium chloride in the blood (body fluids) can make you too fatigued to  tie your own shoelaces.
and your  weakened immune system lets everything gain a foothold in your body.
in three days' time you are likely to find its frequency near 487 khz in your jar.
it taints the vinegar as well as apple juice and concentrate made from them.
and most  of the time the cold will reappear a few hours later.
in those days, vinegar was made of good apples.
take the kidney cleanse to assist the kidneys so they can finally excrete the freon into the urine.
recovery requires months and may be incomplete.
no refrigerator indoors.
it is more than replacing acknowledged  culprits like mercury-amalgam fillings.
this bit of progress will put him or her solidly on your side.
you must stop the source of both.
replace with foam or carbon.
available in clear and  pink.
use fresh unsalted roasted peanuts-they will be white on the first day they arrive at the health food store from the distributor.
ascaris inhibits acid production by the stomach.
it takes two  things, together, to give you cancer: propyl alcohol and the human intestinal  fluke parasite.
(sea gulls fly over the salt flats where sea salt is  gathered.
make granola from a recipe (see recipes).
if you have cancer or bowel disease go off fresh fruit (bananas and lemons  are ok) for a few weeks.
these four cleanups - dental,  diet, body, home - are aimed at removing parasites and pollutants at their  source.
a coxsackie virus has entered your child's brain  causing inflammation (encephalitis) there.
never allow a pet into the bedroom or the dust will have tapeworm eggs as well as mites.
roast nuts after washing in vitamin c water to destroy aflatoxin and then store in refrigerator.
dairy products that cannot be sterilized should not be consumed.
denture plastic is often toxic, even containing mercury in its  composition!
dab a bit under each arm and/or on your shirt or blouse, then dab on cornstarch.
before and after a chelation treatment can show a dramatic change in mood,  energy, appetite and communication ability, yet get no comment from your loved  one.
still, the  chance of missing a food culprit is quite high.
a connection will never be made.
- 2 oz fucus vesiculosus, cut (see sources) - 3 cups cold tap water boil for 15 minutes, covered.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++before starting to cook  sterilize your kitchen sponge +++(microwave it for three minutes), and wash  hands.
there is not a single item on this list that you can take a chance on.
keep a small notebook to become part of the treasured family  legacy as much as photographs do.
add 6 drops of lugol's (not more, not less), stir with wood or plastic, and drink all at once.
if your indigestion comes in the night, this suggests shigellas, since they've had time to reach their favorite place further down.
bad breath in the morning is due to such hidden tooth infections, not a deficiency of mouthwash!
| | not in a  rocking | | | chair.
if you plan on trying this for yourself, order the  set of cold remedies listed above (see sources).
these are essential for  alcohol detoxification.
walking is not merely walking about  the house or shopping.
but it can't all be washed out, and a detailed analysis on the final product would give the public the information they need to make informed choices.
or you shake hands with a coughing, sneezing  person?
soup should be homemade from scratch.
remember, too, that phosphate crystals are made when you eat too much phosphate.
this is to kill any parasite stages you pick up from your family, friends, or pets.
tyramine is a bacterial by product that is quite toxic; it is rather high in  aged cheese, also.
so drugs are the immediate choice.
it takes three  days of drying to kill all!
slowly add beet root powder to the desired color.
don't let the skin be eaten.
narrowing the blood vessels in the brain  can lead to stroke.
but when there is  conflict, trust your wisdom.
white sugar had propyl alcohol pollution.
vitamin c powder per loaf to help retard mold further  (it also makes the bread rise higher).
but it is the most primitive of needs, the same as having a loved one nearby during childbirth.
this is why the instructions direct you to complete the parasite and kidney rinse programs first.
vacuuming sends up a hurricane of dust and distributes bathroom dust to the kitchen and kitchen dust to the bedrooms.
in addition, you will not dilute +++it before use (although when you take it, it will usually be in +++water).
treat cats only twice a week.
often a kidney problem is linked to the heart disorder.
the element polonium, which is radioactive and in tobacco smoke, is harmful to human lungs, but may not be harmful to a small lung parasite, like pneumocystis carnii.
start each day by sterilizing your sponge (it harbors salmonella) or with a new one while the used one dries for three full days.
put in sterile jars in refrigerator.
81 bottle with white blood cells taped to top.
when the brain fails, death occurs, sometimes in five minutes.
if it is in the prostate it can become prostate cancer.
but they will only last 10 days.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ - flavored food, yogurt, jell-o(tm), candies, throat lozenges, store-bought cookies, cakes -
for persons merely over 40 and not ill a most important rule is: don't  overdo.
using a lemon or vinegar and honey beverage helps with digestion although this provides citric or acetic acid, not hydrochloric.
this makes it a very sinister poison.
the beverages to encourage are sterilized milk and hot water - delicious with whipping cream, honey and cinnamon.
when they balk at having to take herbs or vegetable juice, remind them of the days they were on a handful of pills and still had heart failure, pain and kidney disease.
every pet living in your home should be deparasitized  (cleared of parasites) and maintained on a parasite program.
bread flour in  the grocery store is quite free of mold spores, so maybe it is the bakery that  needs to change.
supply it to the home, too.
with the new electronic insights and technology, our parasitic invaders can be vanquished with the closing of a switch.
but we have never cluttered the  planet yet.
your house acts like a chimney for the garage.
but if insomnia is the rule, not the exception, you need to go after it as  a special problem.
if you still crave sugar after a week the problem is  something else.
you can test total body acidity by measuring the  ph of the morning urine.
vinegar (white  distilled) or a tomato to the kettle to ensure some calcium leaches out of the  bones.
take one or two a day.
attend your loved one in  person for the liver cleanse, have a commode at bedside, protect bedding from  accident: use paper underwear if necessary.
the lemon solution even leaves a shine on your counters.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ if it isn't, there is still something wrong.
dust your furniture with a damp paper towel.
only heating to a rolling boil makes milk safe.
pull them all out for a return to good health.
fresh onion juice or other seasoning (optional)
if no capsules or tablets can be swallowed put a three day supply in a  heavy plastic bag.
better housekeeping throw out as much of the wall to wall  carpeting as you can bear to part with.
whether you have killed bacteria permanently determines whether you have permanently cured the condition.
not so in a commercial mixing vat.
rice and pastas can be demolded partly by cooking and partly by adding  vitamin c before or after cooking.
but when you mix them, what is your body to read?
remember that vitamin b6 and magnesium, taken daily, can prevent oxalate stones from forming.
throw rugs at doors and bedside, easy to clean, would "catch the dirt" as was the original intention.
imagine your four cylinder car or lawnmower missing one out of four engine strokes!
use l/4 cup borax plus l/4 cup washing soda and add a minimum of water.
the good news is that she can usually  think of something she would rather eat.
to answer each question, test the item using your syncrometer searching  technique.
we are eager to believe the present is the  best time that has ever been.
maybe a stomach-full of baby ascaris is telling you to eat only food that doesn't need a lot of acid: "just potatoes, bread and pasta, please, and skip the sauce."
milk, water as usual.
shorter than merely zapping.
kojic acid kojic acid is a mycotoxin that appears to be responsible for wood alcohol build up.
when you see how much filth is in the water and realize how much dirt you were living with, you might be willing to trade in the "beauty" of carpets for the cleaner living of smooth floors.
but the liver regenerated the pieces  that died.
be extra careful with the skin cleansing.
alternate brands every time you shop.
fresh parsley has special herbal goodness (high magnesium, high potassium, diuretic.)
metal doesn't belong in our foods or in our bodies.
add milk to cheese in equal amounts.
be sure and use boiled milk.
save this water for  testing.
- a young man with serious mental  illness drinks half a gallon of "mellow yellow"(tm) a day.
the inside of coat for suited persons.
their droppings provide a medium for mold.)
the tapeworm stage flies in the dust as eggs, you can trap these by  setting out a pint jar with a little water in it.
is this because of pollution?
keep up your vigilance.
- a child wants ketchup on everything. -
a metal wall between them absorbs some of the heat.
this could explain why i always find benzene in ice cream.
9 feed animals out of your  yard and away from where children play.
pint jar with lid choose a day like saturday for the cleanse, since you will be able to rest the next day.
it takes nutritious food to build the blood back up to its normal  hemoglobin level.
meat must never be "rare".
they can be black, red, white, green or tan colored.
when you find a beverage that is free of propyl alcohol, it may have other pollutants.
it doesn't take much acid to digest pure starch and get it on its way out of the stomach.
benzene polluted products ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++throw these out +++ +++your  health is worth more than the fortune you spent on them!
you'll back away from cookies and cakes, especially icing (they taste like you imagine shortening tastes).
boiling for many minutes at a higher temperature or baking does kill them (but not ergot, another mold) and also destroys aflatoxin they produced and left in the food.
read the insert included with  packaging for all drugs used.
inside the  lines are your old ideas.
if you are a potato lover fix your own so you can peel them and remove any gray  parts.
each illness in your family could provide you with a  specimen to research.
possibly because it is so weak!
there is no way that it can be "cleaned up".
spraying a grain alcohol solution with lemon peel in it (it needs to extract for a half hour) on the damp carpet will reach and kill a lot of these, together with the residual bacteria.
the egg carton and egg exterior have  salmonella on them, so remove the eggs, replace the carton, wash the exterior  of the eggs and then your hands again before cracking them.
what is the best way to prevent a cold?
it may be tan colored, harboring millions of tiny white crystals.
pasteurization does not kill all of them.
of course, plastic isn't natural, but it is the  best compromise that can be made to restore your mouth.
give yourself good grades for this accomplishment.
there are three or four favorite homeopathic remedies for colds and eight or nine less common ones.
supper tuna with salad dressing or tuna salad (no pasta).
mold free diet stick to this for 24 hours, even if you feel better much sooner.
before the broken hip, diziness.
should the government agencies responsible for food and product safety be depoliticized?
this is the material that has been used in front teeth for 30 years.
store cereals in kitchen cupboards or the freezer.
pour it into a different bottle!
if our  food was doused with sugar for breakfast, lunch and supper, we wouldn't care  much about what was under the sugar either.
a properly cleaned socket which is left after an extraction will heal and fill with bone.
a diuretic pill could certainly have a similar  effect.
dispose of old pressurized cans.
we have been taught to cook thoroughly any pork, fish or seafood.
and they certainly were made at home where  cleanliness and "persnickitiness" are at their finest!
the questions to ask when you phone a new dental office are: 1.
the fat soothes the stomach and  slows down digestion.
you may be quite familiar with your doctor's explanation of your illness  or your child's illness.
i have not  found these types of foam filters to emit formaldehyde.
elderly person's 7 day diabetic diet daily supplements: 4 chromium (200 mcg.
and they certainly were made at home where cleanliness and "persnickitiness" are at their finest!
it is a time of great change for this planet as pollution spreads from pole to pole.
the reason dentists do not see toxic results is that they do not look or  ask.
read the section on insomnia under sleep problems for more on this (page 243).
industrial poisoning is reported to have caused discoloration of the hair (which later falls out), joint pain, loss of appetite, fatigue, severe pain in the calves of the legs, albuminuria, eosinophilia, lymphocytosis and optic neuritis followed by atrophy.
diabetic supplements several supplements are especially good for diabetics: fenugreek seeds, 3 capsules with each meal.
to test clothing (laundry) use a bit of it, (such as a sock) rolled up  tightly.
the adrenals are in control of losses.
this explains why it is a disease of aging.
borax was the traditional pioneer soap.
our respiratory tract is such an island; perhaps other  organs, too.
viruses escape into the body  daily.
use citric acid to rinse and condition.
the most important rule to observe, though, is to take the treatment slowly.
we are not expected to all look alike!
these markers reflect the condition of the organ, not its malignant nature.
loa loa is thought to be a tropical parasite but it is alive and  thriving in the usa!
i found aflatoxin in commercial bread after just four  days in my bread box, but none in home-made bread even after two weeks!
treat your elderly person twice a week if there  is any heart problem.
the purpose of the  parsley water is to keep the kidneys flowing well so dead parasite refuse is  eliminated promptly.
treat dogs  daily, for instance a 30 pound dog would get 3 drops per dav (but work up to  it, increasing one drop per day).
your aflatoxin-ed liver then lets propyl alcohol build up after using it.
use low heat-it will take over an hour.
it is a herculean task but only gets harder each day, so keep notes as you ask:  is there new carpeting?
the liver has a large lobe on your right side with the gallbladder tucked inside.
tremor is the result of ongoing poisoning!
- caffeine-laced beverages.
even though electricity is based on other fuel consumption, you don't have to breathe those fumes directly.
a drop of food grade alcohol will also darken it.
vegetable glycerin (you may also experiment with honey for sweetness).
here are two ancient herbal recipes for obesity.
are mercury suppliers then providing the dental industry with tainted amalgam?
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++use only unpolluted cornstarch (see sources).
communication leads to answers.
throw out rugs that have been pet-beds.
try this diet on yourself if you  have a temper or crying spells or frequent colds!
after cooling, pour it into a small bottle to carry in your purse or pocket (refrigerate the remainder).
in three days' time you are  likely to find its frequency near 487 khz in your jar.
this mexican bread had no molds.
a 250 mg. time-release niacin tablet (see the sources chapter) is a good choice.
in 3 cups water and pour this into a jar.
84 microscope, slides and coverslips.
throw the rest out  of your diet treatments mentioned in the industrial research journals are  hydrogen peroxide, strong alkali such as lime-water, metabisulfite (a common  reducing agent) and high heat.
cornstarch and 1 cup water until completely dissolved in a covered saucepan.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++family members and friends  should take 2 tsp.
stir with wood or plastic.
mix this one part everclear to seven parts water.
this alone could drop the pulse from 120 to 80 in a few days.
+++without the intestinal fluke in your body you can't get hiv.
what about convenience?
when fresh fruit gets  overripe, don't quickly bake it or preserve it.
make granola from a recipe (see  recipes).
the brain is simply not getting enough oxygen and food to work right.
but they may not be safe since they have not been sterilized.
50 all u.s. brands of pasta i tested had mold, including health food brands like the one shown here (left).
if centenarians can't think well or express themselves, their perspectives are lost.
presumably this chelates (traps and prepares for elimination) heavy metals, and helps the liver in detoxifying obscure and deadly poisons.
then it was mixed with assorted chemicals (fumigation, anti-oxidants), each polluted in its own way, packaged again and stored again.
the need to respond to a new stranger energizes the elderly more  than your persuasion can.
carpets  were intended to help keep filth out of the air.
they too, immediately swim and search for a  hospitable island.
go to a building contractor or the health department.
ergotoxins, for example lsd, are active in extremely  minute (less than a microgram, about one thousandth of a fly speck) quantities.
unable to feed,  to run, to call for help brings pain, fear, loneliness and finally, death.
viruses live inside your cells while they reproduce.
and so, gradually, as we get older or sicker, the body's invaders get the upper hand and take over.
zap daily the week before.
nobody will notice the relief of going off this medicine  as much as you.
shower water puts a lot of chlorine into the bathroom air which then distributes itself through the rest of the house.
be careful not to buy isopropyl  rubbing alcohol for this purpose.
elderly people seem to sense the improvement given by kidney herbs.
your jaw and teeth want some work to do.
don't eat toast (many toasters spit tungsten all over your bread and make benzopyrenes besides).
use this motivation to acquire the taste for new foods and beverages.
room air filters are not the answer to polluted air.
hearing it from the doctor is what's needed.
any shorter time simply warms and cultures the pathogens and multiplies them.
the water penetrates the nuts, taking the vitamin c with it and detoxifies them.
to check this out for yourself, close your eye tightly and then dab lemon juice on your eyelid.
are other parasites getting set to spring on us?
check into  carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, fumes from a gas stove pilot light, auto  exhaust from an attached garage or nearby highway, arsenic from household  pesticide, pvc from new plastic curtains or carpeting, formaldehyde from  wearing new clothing before washing it, asbestos from hair dryers, freon from a  refrigerator, fiberglass, and chlorine from running tap water.
vitamin b6 (250 mg): one a day.
sometimes i saw it; sometimes i didn't.
it's more dangerous than the toilet because you  do not suspect it.
killing  parasites prepares a feast for these ubiquitous bacteria.
the dust raised and distributed throughout the house isn't just dirt,  it's infectious dirt.
it makes them multiply and your cells are similarly affected.
"give me three weeks and your oncologist will cancel your surgery!
freedom to dress in a variety of styles, use makeup or no makeup, jewelry or no jewelry, any kind of hair style, any kind of shoes.
serve fresh water daily.
it is frustrating to cook "a fine meal" for the family and find everybody likes it except ms. picky.
you may put the tincture in lukewarm water to  help evaporate some of the alcohol, but do not use hot water because that may  damage its parasiticide power.
turbinado sugar had none of these contaminants either.
even if there were regulations governing removal of sanitizing solutions,  the overwhelming truth is missed: that nothing can ever be completely removed  after it has been added.
or even just the knowledge they are staying well controlled and will never have to take insulin shots.
going faster: in fact, if you are convinced after the first drop of  the restorative powers of black walnut hull tincture extra strength, take the 2  tsp.
when using the "good" dishes or glasses, that haven't been used  in a while, wash them first.
for getting out stubborn dirt at collars, scrub with homemade bar soap first; for stains, try grain alcohol, vinegar, baking soda.
but whether this is the true beginning of the body's problems we  cannot know.
take this dose 4 times a day, after meals and at bedtime, for 3 days in a row, then as needed.
" it is allowable to use solvents to clean machinery used in bottling (please look again at the "help your family, too" section that begins on page 347)!
use washing soda from the grocery store.
to test the air, take a dust sample off the kitchen counter or table (this  gives you fresh dust).
completing the kidney cleanse before cleansing the liver is also highly recommended.
washing hands and face in chlorinated water can give off enough chlorine to trigger a manic episode in a manic-depressive person.
the main minerals for this purpose are calcium and magnesium.
(boric acid is available by the pound from farm supply stores and from now foods.
he was  patient, kind, helpful and willing to share his expertise in electronics and  computers.
a warm stomach full of food  at a neutral ph is just the right culture condition for these bacteria.
will they ever tell the dentist about the kidney problem or tell the doctor about the three fillings?
your sight and hearing can sharpen.
let sit for three days.
will they ever tell the dentist about the kidney problem or tell the doctor  about the three fillings?
freeze unused larger amounts.
as the stones from the far corners of the liver move  forward, they compact into larger stones and plug the ducts again.
citric acid, and 2 tbs.
after seeing this happen dozens of times after killing a mite or  tapeworm stage i concluded that adenovirus really belongs to them; the virus is  scuttling its dying host like people jumping off a sinking ship into the ocean.
besides getting  digestive improvement you get mental improvement, less depression, less  dizziness, less irritability after clearing these up.
it is antibacterial and can be made into a solution.
if you find a recipe  that works for everybody in less than five hours, be sure to let everybody know.
bake the potato: not in aluminum  foil, not baked until fluffy.
it is present in most common fruits if they are  bruised.
before the broken hip,  diziness.
normal treatment cost is about $1,000 for replacement of 6 to 8 metal  fillings including the examination and x-rays.
you must be completely off.
thirty years after an extraction, a cavitation  will still be there.
some salmonella infections can bring diziness to your elderly person.
use grain alcohol (1 pint to 3 quarts water) for germ killing action instead of chlorine.
replace the filter with a foam sheet.
(the goal for all larger  parasites is to live quietly.
day 3: take  3 drops in l/2 cup water same as above.
but your stove grill, whether electric or flame, will produce benzopyrenes in  your food unless there is a separating wall between them.
42 keep both salt  and vitamin c powders in closable plastic shakers.
please see the recipes chapter for many more suggestions.
you can do better than the government by dropping your  standard for toxic metals to zero!
(other heart medicines, such as  digitoxin, don't have this depressive effect.
remind them it will turn the urine yellow.
of course, you'll be missing the taste and nutritional minerals provided by the natural maple product but in a contest between nutritional value and toxicity, always choose the safe product.
always add a dash of vitamin c or tomato juice or vinegar to draw out calcium from soup bones for you to absorb.
eat foods that restore the body's good bowel flora: vegetables, sterilized milk (the milk sugar is essential), lots of water.
if you have a large bridge, it cannot be replaced with a plastic bridge because it isn't strong enough.
if one does, the safest course  is to avoid all bottles of that product entirely, which is what i repeatedly  advise.
it has time to get to its favorite organ and enter the cells there.
use maple, vanilla (both natural and artificial), and any pure spice.
what you will find 54 toe pain 55 balance your ph 57 foot pain 59 heel pain 61 leg pain in children 69 leg pain
once the mouth source is cleaned up, the bacteria do not come back to the heart (after one last zapping).
of hot, cold, or  filtered water into a resealable baggy with a bit of paper towel in it.
sleep is enhanced by taking magnesium.
mix it all in a quart canning jar and store in the refrigerator.
sanitizing solutions may be safely used on food-processing equipment and utensils, and on other food-contact articles as specified in this section, within the following prescribed conditions: (a) such sanitizing solutions are used, followed by adequate draining, before contact with food.
note that the kidney cleanse is often effective with bowel problems.
76 laboratory salt label.
a toxic mouth can put a heavy load on the liver, burdening it immediately after cleansing.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++too sick to cook, too tired to eat: +++pick three meals from the sample menu that need no +++cooking and eat them every day.
thank you to linda jerome for nurturing  us both with personal interest and patience.
heat these together: 1 level tsp. sodium alginate and 1 cup water in a covered non-metal pan until completely dissolved.
71 examples of commercial "food lube".
they would rather not go to church nor visit a friend than embarrass  themselves in that way.
will you ever get your primitive body wisdom back  and enjoy vegetables, fruit, simple styles of cooking and baking them?
if your pet vomits or has diarrhea, you may expect to see worms.
you'll say "no thanks" to canned food and metal cutlery (you can taste the metal now).
usually the mother has eaten onions or members of the cabbage family.
the menu is heavy on green beans  and asparagus and cinnamon.
set the jar in the refrigerator to get ice cold (this is for convenience and taste only).
refrigerate until ready to use.
use your new insights to improve them where you can.
then kill your tapeworm stage or mite by zapping for  seven minutes.
leftover meat sandwich with  rice-bread (no deli or cold cuts or luncheon meat).
but the liver regenerated the pieces that died.
snip open a capsule and rub into skin.
parasite stages survive heat up to the boiling point.
(and you have no symptoms, yet, either!)
feed the paste directly by spoon.
with the convenience of our electric washing machine, we tend to overlook the fact that underwear is always contaminated by fecal matter and urogenital secretions and excretions.
rinse and bake to dry again.
stir until perfectly smooth.
reproductive organs and the fetus are highly susceptible.
benzopyrenes must be detoxified using the liver's valuable  benzene-detoxification system.
constipation is often caused by e. coli and salmonella from dairy foods, or from killing "good" bowel bacteria with antibiotics (killing a few by zapping actually restores good flora).
it weakens blood vessels so they break easily.
health is remembering the good parts of childhood and  believing you still have a lot of them.
but eating the pathogen is 100% effective in infecting us.
it should fizz nicely as oxygen is produced in your mouth.
each), 1 or 2 b50 complex, vitamin c (1,000 mg. or 1/4 tsp.).
the responsible parasite is fasciolopsis buskii, the human intestinal fluke, a flatworm.
healthful habits if your loved one had his or her way, they would drive the car forever,  wear the same cosmetics forever, smoke or chew tobacco forever and eat their  favorite dessert forever.
you may have a sensitive stomach or be worried about toxicity  or side effects.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++congratulations: +++ +++you have taken out your gallstones without surgery!
we add crumbs, picking up molds this way.
extract the juice by putting the pineapple through a food grinder or a blender.
this is a permissive age.
the story of your personal pollution unfolds as in a book.
every 4  hours (or 6 capsules) for several days followed by a daily dose at bedtime.
so if an emergency (sudden edema) should arise they could again be useful.
launder the sheets and towels yourself at a laundromat with borax and/or  washing soda.
you have just eaten a culture sampling from  your own kitchen sponge.
supper cook your supper from scratch.
- men's hair color has lead in it.
then choose your fruit meticulously.
but as soon as any cross the colon wall to invade your  body, your white blood cells pounce on them.
nothing should be more than  six months old.
what kind of heat 407 getting rid of mites 407four clean_ups 409 dental clean-up 409 guidelines for a healthy mouth 411 horrors of metal dentistry 416 dental rewards 419
[note rinsing or drying is not required!]
don't allow ice cubes, however, nor beverage making, with the essential water.
is there a different water supply?
all cold cereals i tested were full of mold toxins  (besides solvents), health food varieties were worst.
after cooling, you may freeze most of it in  several 1 cup containers.
showers are cleaner. - don't use perfumes or colognes.
the first thing to try is 1 mg chromium (five 200 mcg tablets, see the sources chapter) per day.
do not use "tincture of iodine."
you may solve the constipation problem immediately by zapping.
these recommendations should be interpreted as an intent to warn and  protect the public, not to provide a statistically significant analysis.
the habit of using vinegar and honey in water as a beverage was made famous by dr. jarvis in his book folk medicine, circa 1960.
perhaps wisdom is needed more than ever for humans to survive.
put washcloth in laundry after a  single use.
by delaying alcohol  detoxification, the mold could even be responsible for deaths "due  to" alcoholism.
propyl alcohol facilitates the  intestinal fluke but is toxic to us.
(rolled oats have 235 mcg nickel per serving of 4 ounces, picked up from  the rollers, according to food values 14th ed.
if you would like to add nuts to your granola recipes, rinse them in cold tap water first, to which vitamin c powder has been added (1/4 tsp. per pint).
after stopping caffeine use ask: is the pulse too slow or too fast?
moldy food everything that's animal or vegetable can get moldy.
my tests show it is always present in cancer patients; in other words it has built up due to the body's inability to detoxify it in a reasonable time.
the lung lesions will not heal unless cigarette smoking, freon, asbestos, and fiberglass exposure is stopped.
stay with a cane as long as possible.
large plastic straw to help drink potion.
at the very least, keep notes  on all the sweeteners being used.
preventing reinfection is the bigger challenge.
family members should buy unfragranced products.
removing all the borax is what brings luster to the carpet.
the humidity and temperature of stored grain should be regulated, requiring automated controls.
squeeze 1 slice of lemon and 1 whole orange into an 8 ounce bottle that has a tight lid.
it is a time  of great frustration for you.
a slow pulse can give weird brain  symptoms besides great fatigue.
- a child  prefers canned spaghetti for the real thing.
inflexible plastic pitchers fitted with a carbon filter pack are available (see the sources chapter).
these smaller rugs should be laundered weekly.
if everybody's results were  instantaneous, there would be no controversy.
maybe the last one to arrive takes over.
they, too, are heavily polluted.
here is a summary of other solvents mentioned: solvent allowable residue paragraph in spice oleoresins in 21 cfr acetone 30 ppm 173.210 ethyiene dichloride 30 ppm 173.230 methyl alcohol 50 ppm 173.250 methylene chloride 30 ppm 173.255 hexane 25 ppm 173.270 trichloroethylene 30 ppm 173.290 figure 66.
you might have headaches from withdrawal, too.
vitamin c powder as you grind.
thus it is  not just for cancer, but a general treatment that can benefit almost every  illness.
they touch all  kinds of door knobs.
if your loved one responds well to a few hours of oxygen, you have  proof of the problem.
also, the extra potassium helps lift fatigue and has other  benefits.
food mold, at the base of the propyl alcohol problem,  is also at the base of the benzene problem.
i found salmonellas only on the  outside shell and the egg carton-never inside!
warm it slightly and add vitamin c (1/8  tsp.
bacteria are part of the cause, and part of the result!
are other  parasites getting set to spring on us?
but if you do have a mold toxin in you, the virus spreads, multiplies and gives you a cold!
but all milk, whether goat or cow, is contaminated with salmonella and shigella bacteria as well as fluke parasite stages.
vegetable matter, although high in calcium, does not give you available calcium either, unless you buy a juicer and make vegetable juice out of it.
the spray  accumulates in the eyes.
bread flour in the grocery store is quite free of mold spores, so maybe it is the bakery that needs to change.
this female hormone  could have a drastic effect on the maturing process even in small amounts.
badly  damaged teeth become extractions root canals become extractions braces and  implants avoid cavitations need to be surgically cleaned temporary crowns use  plastic temporary fillings use duralon(tm)
you will be the only one feeling "naked".
the opinions and conclusions expressed in this book are mine, and unless expressed otherwise, mine alone.
vitamin c powder in one pint water (crushed tablets will do).
she or he may wish to make it up for you too, but do not let them add anything else to it.
is  there a new medicine (drug) or supplement?
they pick up things from the floor.
it is a form of osteomyelitis, which means bone infection.
use saltwater (aluminum-free salt) or food grade hydrogen peroxide (just a few drops in water).
a method for determining the degree of precision is also presented.
the blowing air not only chills them, but brings filth in dust that blows in the air currents.
test your air for gas leaks frequently.
35 chlorinated water can cause mental symptoms.
if by chance, your elderly person hates these and  starves themselves to get your sympathy, add a lot more potatoes and rice  (never brown) to raise calories.
don't wash the pet dishes with your own - dishwashers don't reach the boiling  point.
if your body  still has its wisdom, or most of it, why can't it detect the mold in peanuts,  crackers and bread for us?
simmer for 5-10  minutes, let settle or strain.
there is no pasta anywhere.
phosphate levels are high in meats, breads, cereals, pastas, and carbonated drinks.
but you make the choice on quality.
they may go to your internal organs where you  don't feel them.
these get rubbed into your skin constantly as you wear your clothing.
in  commercial beverages 428 food preparation 430 food guidelines 431 dining out  433 body clean-up 435 stop using supplements 439 safe supplements 441 home  clean-up 444 your basement 444 your garage 445 special clean-up for freon  (cfcs) 446
peeled sweet  potato with butter (not canned).
that is why i am reduced to recommending only the ones in the sources at this time.
it arrives in the stomach, reattaches to everything in proximity.
hopefully, a barium-free variety will become available soon to remove this health risk.
| | not in a rocking | | | chair.
when you order your herbs, be careful!
the good news is that she can usually think of something she would rather eat.
it is the entrenched bacteria feeding on it that make smells.
no manufactured product is pure.
pancakes or waffles with butter and eggs (no sweetening).
four cleanups chronic health problems are not due to exposures of the past.
dislikes respect your body's opinion when it says, "no, i don't want to eat that."
if anything in  your microwave has turned dark brown or black or has melted plastic, throw it  out!
green beans with potatoes, meat dish, cabbage apple salad, water with  lemon juice and honey, 1 cup hot milk.
will they be able to overcome them or succumb at middle age?
keep the filter sterile by soaking in diluted grain alcohol weekly.
table scraps would be much less toxic for them than their commercial feed.
these are nad-builders.
canned salmon  has a lot of calcium; tuna does not.
the nerves originate in the brain where the  poison has accumulated.
this is what makes things biodegradable.
afterward, you must continue to eat only sterile dairy products.
this contains 250  mg.
in fact, the mechanism,  inability by the liver to keep up with detoxification, fits well into the  "allergic" concept.
since all foods have both their own and others' molds, there must be thousands of molds.
scaned byfred_walter@hotmail.com.
other tortillas made of flour and calcium propionate frequently had molds.
removing the  pollution source is.
these should not be stored anywhere.
remember to wash all fruit, including citrus before juicing.
this also gets  you away from the benzalkonium chloride and possibly other antiseptics in the  bag itself.
don't wait for a doctor's appointment to o.k.  it.
one of the stones pictured on page 554 came from a woman age 97.
- 6 parts comfrey root, symphytum officinale (also called nipbone root) - 6 parts tanner's oak bark, quercus alba (white oak bark) - 3 parts gravel root, eupatorium purpureum (queen of the meadow) - 3 parts jacob's staff, verbascum thapsus (mullein herb) - 2 parts licorice root, glycyrrhiza glabra - 2 parts wild yam root, dioscorea villosa - 2 parts milk thistle herb, silybum marianum - 3 parts walnut bark, juglans nigra, (black walnut bark) - 3 parts marshmallow root, althea offcinalis (white mallow) - 1 part lobelia plant, lobelia inflata (bladder pod) - 1 part skullcap, scutellaria lateriflora (helmet flower)
when heated to decomposition they [sic] emit highly toxic fumes of tl
common problems that plague the aged are brain problems, incontinence, bad digestion, diabetes, tremor, weakness, feeling cold, sensitivity to noise, losing the sense of taste and smell, hearing loss, insomnia, kidney and heart failure.
use only white distilled vinegar.
remember to check the crawl space, attic and closets for hidden poisons also.
lunch it is better to have most of the day's calories in the middle of the day  than at the end.
the body produces hydrochloric acid (hcl) which gets pushed into the stomach from the blood!
this is not  simply due to their inability to digest them.
the rest will be killed by your own cells in time.
thallium causes leg pain, leg weakness, and paraplegia.
diet clean-up 420 breakfast 420 lunch 422 supper 423 beverages 424 horrors in commercial beverages 428 food preparation 430 food guidelines 431 dining out 433 body clean-up 435 stop using supplements 439 safe supplements 441 home clean-up 444 your basement 444 your garage 445 special clean-up for freon (cfcs) 446
it must be heated until it bubbles up and almost goes over the container for ten seconds.
throw rugs at doors and bedside, easy to  clean, would "catch the dirt" as was the original intention.
they can see that you must come near.
don't have a basement where you stockpile toxic items.
the odor of fucus boiling is wretched.
in addition to use on food processing equipment and  utensils, this solution may be used on beverage containers, including milk  containers and equipment and on food-contact surfaces in public eating places.
digestion problems that remain after eliminating bacteria can be diagnosed in a rational way.
if your loved one  is seated they may be able to handle the brush by themselves, giving them pride  in the achievement.
some polluted supplements.
i always find ascaris in persons  with shingles!
they must both be there.
these can be washed weekly if the covers are removable.
presently it is allowed in the united states code of federal regulations (cfr) (see page 428)!
since your cells divide and therefore start again at age zero, even though you are 90, why do you age at all?
the nerves controlling  the hands and arms are poisoned.
now it has molds which cause platelet destruction, (purpuric spots) internal bleeding, and immune failure.
you may also detect a feeling like indigestion.
add 50% glycerin to cornstarch in a saucer to make a paste.
stay in the kitchen while the heat is on.
acid levels operate the latching system  that decides whether oxygen will be attached to hemoglobin or let go!
make the easy lifestyle improvements (page 397).
lice were  originally "controlled" by frequent washing, louse combs, and ironing  the seams of clothing.
put it in 1/2 cup of water.
dr. clark: don't accept intravenous (iv) treatments during amalgam  removal.
food that is predominantly concocted can't be interpreted by your body  wisdom.
try to do this with diet by eating more potassium rich food and by conserving on potassium losses.
don't drink from a personal water bottle (it begins to breed bacteria) unless you sterilize it daily.
sterilize it once a week by putting a cup of water and one tbs.
in adults 70 leg pain protocol 73 fibromyositis and fibromyalgia 75 joint pain or arthritis 78 osteo or common arthritis 79 rheumatoid arthritis 82 allergic arthritis 84 thigh pain 86 hip pain 87
anemia oxygen gets to the brain on a carrier system of tiny rafts called red  blood cells.
brown sugar combine the ingredients in a clean salad dressing bottle.
sometimes, the entire body is too acid!
remarkably a little lemon juice (not from a bottle) has some holding power and no odor!
better  laundry habits boil your underwear.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ - shampoo, even health brands - hair spray and mousse - cold cereals, even "natural" granolas - cosmetics (make your own) - mouthwash - decaffeinated coffee, postum(tm), herb tea blends (single herb teas are ok) - vitamins, minerals and supplements (unless you test them) - bottled water, distilled water, or spring water - rubbing alcohol - white sugar (brown is ok if detoxified) - all shaving supplies including aftershave - carbonated beverages - store-bought fruit juice, including health food brands
has life been ruined, now that plain potatoes and butter taste good?
try other kidney herbs from time to time: shave grass, cedar berries, juniper berries, butcher's broom, cornsilk.
low back pain 92 lower abdominal  pain 97 stomach pain 98 appendicitis 100 urinary tract pain 101 irritable bowel  syndrome(ibs), colitis, and spastic colon 102 crohn's disease 103 central  abdominal pain 108 interstitial cystitis 108 uterine pain 109
(there are people who say coffee  puts them to sleep.
this leads me to believe it is their waste products, namely ammonia, that  really causes insomnia.
vinegar is used instead of calcium  propionate in some breads but, again, the plastic ruins its effectiveness.
you may move your chemicals into your garage.
and we'd continue wanting sugar,  sugar, sugar the way a pet might want its favorite food and nothing else.
this gives it plenty of time to react with the ergot before you eat it.
sometimes i had cold symptoms; sometimes i didn't.
if you will miss your coffee or decaf, try just plain hot water with boiled whipping cream.
but honey is not perfect food.
all colon cancer sufferers  test positive.
mixing these with socks and towels and dishcloths is  all right if you are going to kill everything anyway.
books suggest that you start with a 6x or a 12x remedy, but success is more certain with 30x. use three remedies simultaneously.
you can only kill the outsiders: those stuck in  your cell gateways.
urine that should have left the body is backed up in the tissues.
12 do not use any commercial personal products, the risk of pollution is too great.
take headache medicine, if necessary, but make sure it does not contain caffeine.
parasites  come from meats.
other syrups may have sorghum added, polluting  them.
if we knew which organ is failing, we could come to its assistance and prevent the collapse of the whole body.
your loved one can smile again at little things!
take all cans and bottles of chemicals out from under the sink or in a closet.
if there are teenagers in the house, add a hefty dose of cayenne to it.
(l to r) human  intestinal fluke, pancreatic fluke, sheep liver fluke, and human liver fluke.
if you have heart disease, high blood pressure, or edema, use potassium bicarbonate instead.
never let your child eat crackers.
add chives or  peeled fruit (not canned).
if that happens to be your respiratory system, you get classic symptoms.
underwear should be dried until too hot to handle.
bread and biscuits white only, not toasted, not "cholesterol-free" varieties.
it may be necessary to wear some kind of incontinence underwear.
test  results should be on the label.
no one disputes the extreme toxicity of mercury compounds and mercury vapor.
pots and pans are sanitized with hot water, not chemicals.
also, the extra potassium helps lift fatigue and has other benefits.
strength dose | |  ---+---------------------+-----------------------+-------------------------  day|1 time per day, |capsules 1 time per day|capsules 3 times per day, |like  before a meal |on empty stomach |like at mealtime  ---+---------------------+-----------------------+------------------------- 1 |  1 | 1 | 1, 1, 1 2 | 2 | 1 | 2, 2, 2 3 | 3 | 2 | 3, 3, 3 4 | 4 | 2 | 3, 3, 3 5 |  5 | 3 | 3, 3, 3 6 | 2 tsp.
both you and your elderly person deserve the best tone quality that is made.
if you had the proverbial 3 wishes they would be: 1) please spare my child's life; 2) please make it so my child doesn't have permanent damage; 3) please bless and guide the wonderful doctors and nurses who are keeping the oxygen tent going, and are watching my child's temperature and vital signs.
throw liberal amounts behind stove, refrigerator, under carpets and in carpets.
use a non-metal pot that holds one to two quarts.
warm it slightly and add vitamin c (1/8 tsp.
this parasite becomes established in the liver when it reacts with accumulations of a common solvent (which is in many processed foods and personal products).
cover the nuts with water, add about 1/4 tsp.
would getting away from preoccupation with chemistry be a big answer?
using a frequency generator to electrocute adenovirus (393 khz for three  minutes) is not effective either because you are not killing the mites and  tapeworm stages at the same time, and the adenoviruses are coming from them.
to satisfy this craving without endangering their blood sugar regulation.
a large bridge must be replaced with a  removable partial (flexite(tm)).
until now they have been controlled - kept down - by an ever vigilant immune system.
the fat soothes the stomach and slows down digestion.
never again, you may say, will you give them arsenic and mercury and lead.
70 good restaurant  foods.
just sprinkle with  cinnamon.
let your body (your taste)  decide on the amount of potassium chloride to add.
test yours and switch brands until you find a  safe one. - vaseline products (noxzema(tm), vick's(tm), lip therapy(tm)), chap  stick, hand cleaners - vitamins and other health supplements, unless tested.
for instance chromium  is an essential element of glucose tolerance factor, but most of its other  compounds are extremely toxic.
fresh roots can be used.
wheat germ smells terrible  (rancidity).
vitamin c powder to improve the taste.
using denture cream is not a good substitute for correct fit and is toxic.
the solutions consist of one of the following, to which may be added components generally recognized as safe and components which are permitted by prior sanction or approval.
fruit (peeled),  hot milk, water.
bottled water, whether  distilled, spring, mineral, or name brand.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ six drops of lugol's solution can end it all for salmonella.
it is inadvisable to drink any form of alcohol at least until you are fully recovered.
no matter how much your loved  one admonishes you to go about your business, you will know when you share the  final minute that your presence helped.
eating fat or protein triggers the gallbladder to squeeze itself empty after about twenty minutes, and the stored bile finishes its trip down the common bile duct to the intestine.
add cinnamon to  flavor, or frozen fruit and honey.
it's easy to injure tendons and muscles by pulling or stretching them too far.
there are a variety of ways that mold toxins lower immunity.
i have seen pernicious anemia to be associated with ascaris infestation.
how well did you do?
no mexican brands of pasta, like the one pictured (right), had any molds.
you don't need to know their hosts in order to stop  hosting them yourself.
keep it at the bedside, use small capsules or tablets and combine this chore with water drinking.
fibromyositis and fibromyalgia 75 joint pain or arthritis 78 osteo or common  arthritis 79 rheumatoid arthritis 82 allergic arthritis 84 thigh pain 86
this includes herbal extracts and prescription drugs.
bed socks on the feet help with warmth.
cook with onions and oregano for flavoring.
treat bread the same way.
if you or your child are not ready  to eat them, avoid them carefully, so you don't get a surprise dose of the  toxic chemical.
keep in mind that this diet may reduce the need for insulin almost immediately.
place in large ungreased pans and bake in slow (250 degree) oven.
foods that are raised to very high temperatures, made possible with a microwave oven, produce benzopyrenes.
toxic food grilled  food develops benzopyrenes in it that are very toxic.
they do not clean quite as well as modern detergents, but there  is less static cling, eliminating the need to put more chemicals in your dryer.
or you could make a hot soup for dinner, refrigerate, and eat the leftovers for lunch.
but the wind carries these spores high up into trees, and even up to the stratosphere.
tablets 3 times a day, 9 altogether).
fortunately there are ice cream makers that do everything +++(no cranking)!
pour frozen strawberries into blender.
none of us can remember how  things were in precivilized times.
these acids are completely metabolized so they don't add to the body acid level.
find a suitable dispenser bottle.
it is indeed the life-saving step.
there is not a single item on this list that you can  take a chance on.
i found salmonellas only on the outside shell and the egg carton-never inside!
family members nearly always have the same parasites.
they are well motivated to prevent the need for giving themselves daily shots of insulin.
eggs and meats (all very well cooked) are the richest sources of iron and other minerals used in blood building.
or slice and place in a plastic bag in the freezer.
buy it at a farm supply or garden store (or see sources).
cosmetics are laced with propyl alcohol.
i found aflatoxin in commercial bread after just four days in my bread box, but none in home-made bread even after two weeks!
good advice is to return to old fashioned home cooking: with its flour and  butter, lard and cream, homemade pasta, olive oil and soup, coarse cereal  grains and plain fruit.
remember, when your body craves potato chips, it craves something in the  potato chips.
don't worry about cholesterol since you will be doing liver cleanses anyway.
it stops cells from dividing.
near-boiling is not hot enough.
let stand at least one hour.
stopping eating  them will.
suspect  food molds first, bacteria and chemical additives next.
do each nostril with a new applicator.
the first thing to try is 1 mg chromium (five 200 mcg tablets, see the  sources chapter) per day.
choose electric heat if possible.
bone strengthening 87
lesson six 482 lesson seven 484
after your pets have stopped eating propyl alcohol polluted food and are  not getting propyl alcohol in their shampoos, there is no way they can get  cancer.
the cost will range from a few hundred dollars to only a few thousand in order to eliminate both problems and cure your chronic diseases.
starch solutions are good, too.
buy salt that has magnesium carbonate as its anti-caking agent.
how can propyl alcohol in shampoo get into your body in significant amounts?
- cold cereal, including granola and health brands - toothpaste, including health brands - ice cream and frozen yogurt - rice cakes, even the plain ones - chewing gum - pills and capsules.
they are like four horses pulling a wagon.
if the adrenal glands are not conserving salt properly, too much sodium is allowed to leave the body with the urine, resulting in low sodium levels in the blood and a blood pressure drop.
the test of listening.
dose of black walnut hull tincture extra strength while living with you.
cooking during the manufacturing of sorghum syrup kills the mold but its toxic byproducts (mycotoxins) are still present.
don't sit on them with bare skin.
mopping, instead of the vacuum cleaner, keeps dirt to a minimum.
weekly chelations can correct many  problems of the elderly that no other treatment could.
the cancer causing or carcinogenic action of metals has been studied for a  long time, although it doesn't get attention by our regulatory agencies.
add it to a 1/2 glass of water and sip over a 15 minute period.
see the recipes chapter for easy-to-make, natural cosmetics.
peel them to get rid of kojic  acid (mycotoxin) and scopolamine (the green part).
take advantage of this to exercise them.
our respiratory tract is such an island; perhaps other organs, too.
be careful that nobody tries  drinking it.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++going after a tremor problem in this logical way +++always finds the cause of tremor, whether its a simple +++short attack or a situation of long standing tremor +++with head shaking and drooling.
even if you weren't, you can undo much of the "inherited" damage.
low immunity in the mouth permits throat infections to be chronic.
chewing 295 stomach acid 296  salmonella and shigella 297 other clues 299 liver bile 299 constipation 301  poop your troubles away 301 sugar regulation 302 elderly person's 7 day  diabetic diet 302 breakfast 302 lunch 303 dinner 304 supper 307diabetic  supplements 309 diabetic eating out 309 extra diet tips for the elderly 309  salt ???
turn over and repeat.
the tapeworm stage beeps may disappear in a few days, too, presumably  dead.
yes, it becomes a vicious cycle, getting worse and worse.
for unpolluted vitamins see the sources chapter.
for the elderly food should taste good.
they should give themselves the same de-parasitizing program.
clean up the air according to the general principles of environmental cleanup (see the four clean-ups chapter, page 409).
when the pulse drops below 60 the new danger is slowness.
squeeze part of a lemon, letting only the clear juice run into the bottle.
if your situation is +++extra difficult, you will at least improve it  and stop +++its progression.
parasites are everywhere around you!
throw those metal pots away.
i  tested had propyl alcohol.
if you are ill, sit outdoors (on the porch) as much as  you can.
especially if you're going on vacation.
use to make your own flavored beverages in a seltzer maker or to make soda pop.
loved by low energy people.
the alcohol in the tincture can make you slightly woozy for several minutes.
your loved one can smile again at  little things!
yet  their cancer-promoting ability is known in many cases.
its last major use, rat poison,  was banned in the 1970s.
it is also inevitable for many others with unexplainable risk factors.
dried fruits are very moldy.
coated fry-pan, otherwise get an enamel coated metal pan.
let us apply these new insights to several diseases we are familiar with.
urinary tract bacteria, small kidney stones, moldy foods and metal from  dentalware are the chief offenders.
the liver cleanse, it seems, gives them new thirst as well as new appetite.
it is easy to understand why this is thought: by the time you have acute pain attacks, some stones are in the gallbladder, are big enough and sufficiently calcified to see on x-ray, and have caused inflammation there.
raise the oxygen level in the air that is breathed.
but severe salt deprivation in the diet can  also cause this.
removing the pollution source is.
wouldn't it be wonderful if the  sick could join them?
is there a new furnace?
use a bamboo strainer (non metal).
65  unpolluted breakfast cereals.
usually, by the time they are complaining of cold, they have suffered a long time, feeling too guilty to request a temperature hike.
here are several deodorants to try.
when cool, add vitamin c, cover with plastic wrap, and the lid.
is there constipation?
if rules are sure to be  broken, calculate it into the rest of the day so you can compensate for it.
always on a new clean surface, such as a plate.
they produce some of the  most toxic chemicals known to exist.
vitamin c powder to the top of a 5 lb. bag; it will stick to the pellets as they pour out.
the chance of a false positive or a false negative is  about 5%, which can be lessened by test repetition.
bacteria from the liver or your own intestines find these strained  tissues immediately and intensify the pain.
after you are accustomed to this, add other vegetables and greens to the juice to make up half of it.
use  non-metal jewelry.
step out of  your old world.
should the  government agencies responsible for food and product safety be depoliticized?
pick up the dust with a few wipes by a small, two inch  square of damp paper towel.
cover the nuts with water, add  about 1/4 tsp.
i have not found these types of foam filters to emit formaldehyde.
if you let yourself eat highly salted food while you're giving the adrenals a clean up, at least add potassium chloride to your diet.
for this reason, you should only get replacement crowns and no new crowns.
commercial denture cleaners are much more toxic than grain alcohol; don't use them.
after your mouth is metal and infection-free, notice whether your sinus condition, ear-ringing, enlarged neck glands, headache, enlarged spleen, bloated condition, knee pain, foot pain, hip pain, dizziness, aching bones and joints improve.
drink 1/4 cup as soon as it is cool enough.
ergot toxicity could explain "jekyll and hyde" behavior in children, commonly attributed to "allergies".
if you notice an attack of dementia coming, try a niacin tablet (100 mg, not timed release) immediately.
this only "controlled"  them.
the 60's brought us this wonderful freedom.
it is particularly hazardous since the mold that produces it can  actually grow in your intestine in patches.
this is what prevents you from detoxifying tiny bits of propyl alcohol that get into your body!
rice-bread and butter.
another way to sterilize the sponge or cloth is to microwave it, after wetting it, for 3 minutes.
five hundred to one thousand of these dentists can do it all.
try to  turn your loved one's cycle back to night-time sleeping if it has become turned  around by bad kidney function (frequent urination at night) or too much daytime  napping.
because strong hcl would dissolve teeth it is not available as a solution to aid digestion.
it does not contain cobalt (the blue or green granules) which causes heart disease and draws cancer parasites to the skin.
vegetable glycerin and 1 tsp.
adults should hide their junk food, including everything off limits to children.
cascara sagrada (half dosage) or prunes work for many people.
repeat the diet the next day and the next until you are well.
if everybody's results were instantaneous, there would be no controversy.
i better | | | not say anything.|  ------------------+-------------------+------------------+-------------------
week 2: parsley water and black walnut.
absorbent pants of all kinds are heavily chemicalized.
you see dentures everywhere and they seem strong enough to eat with.
eliminate that problem first for best results.
that bring you eye  color, not eye disease.
so anything hiding in them  will not be harmed by the electric current either.
the homeopathic method would  be a beautiful cold cure if it weren't for the mold intrusion.
patulin patulin is the  major fruit mold toxin.
part of the human  tragedy is war.
the body cannot get enough cleansing action from less than four cups.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++all milk should be sterilized by boiling it for 10 seconds.
i found traces in cereals, whole grain breads, wines, and honey.
since you, the cook, know where the salt is, (mostly in soups and stews),  don't serve as much of these when there is heart and kidney illness or high  blood pressure.
by the time you have identified the culprits  (probably 20 hours of work) surely you have won the right to make changes.
we cannot individually control the destiny of our species.
-> third use fennel (1 capsule 3 times a day).
finally, clean your hands with diluted grain alcohol (dilute 1 part alcohol  with 4 parts water) or vodka.
killing these three invaders (heartworm, loa loa, staphylococcus aureus) should cure an irregular heart beat immediately (within a day).
use  homemade salad dressing with a preference for oil and vinegar styles.
less carbon dioxide,  tobacco smoke and auto exhaust.
you'd have to force yourself to eat grocery bread (it's so doughy and sour smelling).
drink one serving (3/4 cup) of the ice cold epsom salts.
it is like having a pocket calculator with rundown batteries: it will give you wrong answers (without telling you they are wrong).
reversing illness and turning into a shining example of your former healthy self could be the most exciting adventure of your life.
there are many books that describe their uses.
but not without a price, such as a harmful side effect.
mites don't bite us but we inhale them as they float in the ever present dust in our homes.
you shouldn't need a mouthwash!
make your own salad and salad dressing out of olive oil, fresh lemon juice  or white distilled vinegar (apple cider vinegar has aflatoxins), honey, salt  and herbs to flavor.
be careful that nobody tries drinking it.
to further improve flavor and to dechlorinate attach a small faucet filter made of carbon only.
expect orange colored stool.
79 syncrometer  schematic.
purchase a  variety that has very simple-to-replace cartridges.
lunch - soup without noodles, without rice or any grain product.
or start your day with fried potatoes, an egg, and glass of milk.
then test the dentures for toxins.
eradicating  aflatoxin simply sprinkling vitamin c over roasted nuts is not effective  because the molds have penetrated the surface.
ask for the panoramic x-ray rather than the usual series of 14 to 16 small x-rays (called full mouth series).
b12 is a beautiful rose colored vitamin.
milk served hot with cinnamon accomplishes two purposes: it will stimulate acid secretion and the cinnamon is an insulin aid.
before death there may have been appetite loss.
when this isn't happening, it was meant to be shipped out of the body with the urine.
mix this half and half with water.
use part of a charcoal capsule to darken it, if desired.
remember, when your body craves potato chips, it craves something in the potato chips.
why  don't you have a perpetual cold, since these bacteria are always in your  colon... and should be!
128 fig. 23 gallstones.
i find nearly every breast cancer case shows a too-high  estrogen level for years before the cancer is found!
with the heart regular again, it will be much stronger, too, since it doesn't have to work against itself.
i believe the main source of the intestinal fluke is undercooked meat.
pathogens live bountifully on hands.
they may go to your internal organs where you don't feel them.
see the recipes chapter for antibacterial borax soap.
remember to test everything you use on an unnoticed piece of carpet first.
estrogen and progesterone levels (pg./ml).
the gas  is toxic and a small amount can't be smelled.
talk about aging in  its positive aspects.
the flu 201 fever 203 multiple sclerosis & amyotropic lateral sclerosis 204 high blood pressure 210 glaucoma 213 tooth decay 214 muscle diseases 218 muscular dystrophy 219 myasthenia gravis 221 universal allergies 222 environmental illness 223 alcoholism 227 seizures 230 weight problems 237 sleep problems 241 sleep apnea 241 insomnia 243 yeast infections 246 diaper rash 246 treat yeast or fungus the same 247 fluke disease 249 flukes and solvents 251 flukes not alone 252
their livers are strong enough to detoxify occasional small amounts.
i don't have a recipe that holds your hair as well as the bottle of chemicals you can buy at the store.
pie a la mode (homemade  pumpkin or squash pie and homemade ice cream).
if you are responsible for this daily chore, use homemade floss (2 pound to 4 pound nylon fish line) first; then brush.
then it was mixed  with assorted chemicals (fumigation, anti-oxidants), each polluted in its own  way, packaged again and stored again.
bad digestion with its excessive gas and burping is another plague of the elderly.
you can see what they  are fighting besides the invaders.
folic acid: 800 mcg.
we should take a lesson from nursing babies: when they refuse to nurse, there is something unpalatable in the mother's milk.
sterilize fingernails with grain  alcohol to prevent reinfection.
furniture polish 541 insect killer 541 ant repellent 541 flower and foliage spray 542 moth balls 542 carpet cleaner 542health improvement recipes 543 black walnut hull tincture 543 quassia recipe 546 emmenagogue (menstrual period inducer) 546 bowel program 546 constipation tea 548 weight reduction 548 kidney cleanse 549 liver herbs 552 liver cleanse 552 lugol's lodine solution 559 vitamin d drops 560 pathogen frequencies 561
feeling dizzy can make your loved one home bound and stuck to a walker for every move.
these are caused by strongyloides, a horse threadworm.
try to  avoid them at night, though, so the skin can breathe freely.
as a society, we should search for  our lost longevity.
(breast cancer cases show titanium, zirconium, benzalkonium, bismuth and antimony accumulation in the breast.)
what must be done to protect ourselves  and loved ones from future disasters?
don't cut tablets in half, the rough edges can  scratch the throat.
six drops is small by comparison.
use filtered water to dampen.
softener salts are polluted with strontium and chromate; they are also full of aluminum.
86 function generators.
drink this mixture in divided doses throughout the day.
but your stove grill, whether electric or flame, will produce benzopyrenes in your food unless there is a separating wall between them.
also take: ginger capsules: one with each meal (3/day).
cutting down on coffee, decaf, soda pop and powdered drinks won't do.
pour into glass jars or bottles, discarding walnuts, and divide the remaining vitamin c amongst the jars.
also remove fiberglass jackets from water heater and fiberglass filter from furnace.
wheat-free, corn-free bread, or rice bread with 1  tbs.
you don't want a  salmonella infection added to your cold.
since the temperature may go  higher than your regular oven, you can produce benzopyrenes.
there is no half way measure with  benzene.
now we must cook  thoroughly any beef, chicken or turkey.
36 red blood cells, top and side view.
no. 7553-56-2), potassium iodide (cas reg.
you may have adenoviruses quietly slipping into your blood stream and tissues from a tapeworm stage or mite you inhaled, or e. coli bacteria that strayed into your tissues, and which is being slowly killed by your immune system.
this sets up the natural  cues for emptying.
all change should be brought about slowly and with kindness for animals  and humans alike.
do any dental work first, if possible.
never serve mashed potatoes for this reason.
it's like putting yeast into a bowl of warm water, flour and sugar.
take 8 if you already suffer from insomnia.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++you have just made extra strength black walnut hull +++tincture.
it is a time when we long for the  foods of our own childhood, too.
use honey, or brown sugar.
trading your body products for unpolluted varieties is a job but not insurmountable.
vitamin c powder 1 tsp.
if many people can live to 100 years, then surely this is the human life span, not three score and ten.
share the joy of getting gallstones  out painlessly with your loved one; let them see and count them if they wish  before you flush them (use a flashlight).
it has many technical drawbacks as well.
by reducing chronic disease to two problems, it becomes manageable.
use on rashes, fungus, moist or irritated areas and to prevent chafe.
dust is always falling!
if your kitchen tap is the single lever type, make sure it is fully on cold for cooking.
today, the medical industry  (doctors and their suppliers and insurers) take a significant amount of the  worker's earnings.
comfort is paramount for each of us.
some simply kill white blood cells.
drink l/2 glass a day.
- 1 oz sassafras bark - 1 oz rue (cut) - 1 oz marjoram herb - 1 oz blue cohosh root - 4 1/2 cups boiling water
was a new animal association taking place in the early 1900's?
if they are fighting against the whole business, they will say things like, "you don't have to shout.
detoxify all your honey as soon as it arrives in your house.
if bizarre behavior shows up, such as saying mean and cruel things, expressing unusual, irrational thoughts, feeling emotionless or unreal, try the same diet changes, but put alcoholic beverages, soy sauces and other sauces, and other grain derived foods on the "off" list.
as soon as the beat is regular and under 100 per minute, reduce your heart drugs.
while the well is open, have the pump checked for pcbs.
loa loa is thought to be a tropical parasite but it is alive and thriving in the usa!
your body is constantly fighting to remove pollutants.
+++ +++polluted supplements do much more harm than good.
it is not in meat, eggs, and fish.
clean the vents in other rooms each  week along with floors and carpets by pulling up the grating and reaching down  the passage as far as possible.
zearalenone zearalenone, an anabolic and uterotrophic metabolite, is frequently found in commercial cereal grains and in processed foods and feeds, and is often reported as causative agent of naturally occurring hyperestrogenism and infertility in swine, poultry and cattle.
notice whether your elderly person goes into the  bathroom in fair shape mentally but comes out confused, unreasonable.
there is  no fruit or vegetable juice except homemade, and not much of that because it  crowds out milk and water.
412 fig. 61 thallium excerpt.
products that are imported should be subjected to the same tests as ours.
another good mold inhibitor is lime water.
in an age of lowered immunity, it makes little sense to deliberately  poison the food with benzopyrenes.
at once on an empty stomach.
how  did an obscure virus - a snail virus! - become a human virus?
but the kidneys may be doing a poor job because  they are clogged with tiny crystals and because not enough water is drunk, so  the body's acid levels rise.
(more about this on page 97).
younger  persons can undress for comfort.
provide vodka yourself in a small pocket flask or 70% grain alcohol for this purpose.
if you have low immunity (low t-cells, low white blood cell count, and so forth), immediately go off moldy food suspects.
don't buy sorghum  syrup.
clean up the  thyroid by doing dental work and liver cleanses.
dental rewards after your mouth is metal and infection-free, notice whether your sinus  condition, ear-ringing, enlarged neck glands, headache, enlarged spleen,  bloated condition, knee pain, foot pain, hip pain, dizziness, aching bones and  joints improve.
this implicates the adrenal glands.
fats maybe you like french fries because of the fat.
(but only as long as necessary, because these frequently harbor molds.)
sleep can be disturbed by taking vitamins at bedtime too.
then cool and refrigerate.
pour off the water and dry the nuts in the oven at low heat.
if you get nowhere, change to electric utilities.
weather changes,  namely temperature changes make pipes expand or shrink-leaving cracks!
sprinkle on half the vitamin c. seal with plas tic wrap and cover.
it will be darker than the tincture.
it can even keep up with a steady stream that is coming from tapeworm stages!
the truth is self-evident.
make their choices clear: weakness should not be taken for granted in the elderly.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++the guidelines can be  summarized as: +++ 1.
the source of loa loa seems to be tapeworm stages; this is not a certainty.
potatoes have their molds but they are nicely visible.
pour it  into the other palm and do the remaining fingernails.
the general rules apply to the extremely  elderly: kill all parasites first by zapper if possible, otherwise by herbal  parasite killing.
nor does the final tincture need any refrigeration.
use  plain water or vinegar water (50%), not a chemical combination which further  pollutes the air.
purchase the flip-top  cans to avoid eating metal grindings from the can opening process.
so if you're body tells you that you need grease, go back to olive oil,  butter, cheese (baked only), lard, avocados, nuts and nut butters (homemade  only) and seeds.
remove all cans, bottles, roach and ant killer, moth balls, and chemicals that kill insects or mice.
not many ways are known to stimulate this whole process.
no. 7681-11-o), and isopropanol (cas  reg.
treat yourself as well as your child.
unfortunately, this will  not kill shigellas; follow the bowel program (page 546) to get them.
attach  a carbon filter to the shower head (see the sources chapter).
tremor remedies let us imagine that the air (dust) sample proves toxic (resonates with the  saliva sample).
even if there were regulations governing removal of sanitizing solutions, the overwhelming truth is missed: that nothing can ever be completely removed after it has been added.
cadmium is used to make the pink color in dentures!
or buy a filter pitcher (see sources).
adults should hide their junk food, including everything off limits to  children.
spread a sheet of plastic over the sewer or sump pump.
in a glass of cold milk.
the reason is not mysterious either.
wouldn't it be nice if they could all go back to gardening or some other primitive and useful endeavor?
don't buy a wheelchair if your loved one can still walk with your help.
let it run before using it.
if you are in a wheelchair without a very reliable diagnosis, have all the metal removed from your mouth.
the sunshine breaks out!
never have a basement room "finished" for actual living space.
don't settle your loved one in an easy chair after supper.
give yourself good grades for  this achievement.
even ozonated freon is extremely burdensome to the liver.
wash your hands after  handling raw meat or eggs.
hot milk  and a piece of cake (homemade, never chocolate) may do as much.
don't use ordinary soap.
move to the other end of the house and furthest away from an attached garage  door.
it took  years or decades to get into your present condition.
ethnic foods were made from scratch.
if you have indigestion or nausea wait until it is gone before drinking the epsom salts.
five hundred to  one thousand of these dentists can do it all.
go up very gradually and only when digestion allows it.
if you  search for adenovirus, though, in your dust sample, it isn't there!
you may add a pinch of cinnamon or other pure spice.
but you then get 3 days off!
both iv bags and the supplements used in them are polluted with propyl alcohol, benzene, and wood alcohol.
i have only followed adenovirus behavior.
it is volume 10 of a series called metal ions in biological systems, edited by helmut sigel.
if you are only listening to its beeps, you can't.
rinse very thoroughly because you should leave your scalp slightly acidic.
baked apples 522 5 minute ice cream 522 seven day sample menu 523 recipes for  natural body products 525 borax liquid soap 526 for laundry 526 for dishes 527
for a young person it  is a good sign to be as low as 60, provided no drug is involved.
wormwood capsules: (200-300 mg wormwood per capsule) open a capsule and  put the smallest pinch possible on their dry food.
add vitamin c to newly opened jar to detoxify ergot mold (1/4 tsp.
add fresh chopped parsley to the sauce or butter for  both green beans and potatoes.
(if your loved one is getting  shots, make sure that no isopropyl alcohol is used on the skin beforehand.
but the water effect only works in the early morning.
the liver is deluged with the same set of pollutants time after time and never gets a rest.
aflatoxin is a most potent carcinogen and immunosuppressant.
if you or a friend would be willing to make fresh juice, this would be much better than purchased juice.
let thaw and measure the amount in cups (it might say on the package).
no conflict with any clinical treatment.
they too, immediately swim and search for a hospitable island.
blood thinning drugs to improve circulation are dangerous - use only if the  doctor insists.
search near  the frequencies given for them.
in fact, you can clear it up in less time than it takes to get a doctor's appointment for a check up.
"zear" is the mycotoxin that prevents you from detoxifying benzene.
bring honey and water to a boil if you plan to keep it several days.
each illness in your family could provide you with a specimen to research.
common salt for student use is thoroughly analyzed for pollution.
the bowel movement sinks but gallstones float because of the cholesterol inside.
their wastes contain pathogens.
the stomach does not have the acid necessary to dissolve them.
prevention what is the best way to prevent a cold?
you can see what they are fighting besides the invaders.
special clean-up for fiberglass 447 special clean-up for asbestos 447 your house 448 unnatural chemicals 451 bioelectronics 457 making a syncrometer 457 making a hobby kit syncrometer 458 making test plates 460 test plates parts list 460 test plates assembly 461 using the syncrometer 462 resonance 465 lesson one 466 white blood cells 468 making a white blood cell specimen 469 lesson two 470 lesson three 470 lesson four 471
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++after killing the flukes, those growth factors already formed will disappear in one hour.
test results should be on the label.
kill all bacteria, viruses and parasites with a zapper.
don't be surprised if you cave in a few times to some super ruse they use on you.
don't eat cold cereal; it has numerous solvents and molds.
none of us should be eating these foods untested.
search near the frequencies given for them.
the metal is ground up very finely and added to  the plastic in order to make it harder, give it sheen, color, etc.
no wonder they are so popular!
- 1/2 cup dried hydrangea root - 1/2 cup gravel root - 1/2 cup marshmallow root - 4 bunches of fresh parsley - goldenrod tincture (leave this out of the recipe if you are allergic to it) - ginger capsules -
kidneys are made of  tubes that get finer and finer.
these holes are constantly being adjusted by the adrenals which sit right on top of the kidneys and "supervise".
if you believe the air is free of highway exhaust and industrial smoke open the windows every day.
to stop reinfecting yourself the little cysts under the nails need to be  killed.
two eggs, (replace carton and wash hands and eggs before cracking),  wheat-free, corn-free bread, not toasted (special breads can be found in the  freezer section of natural food stores), with butter and 1 tbs.
you can often see mold yourself, as a thin scum on the surface or  an opaque spot on the inside of the glass after the syrup has stood some time,  even in the refrigerator.
don't serve grapes or strawberries due to the intense mold problem.
limit bedtime supplements to magnesium, ornithine, valerian (6 capsules) taken with hot milk.
always use a non-metal salt shaker with a closable lid to keep out moisture.
persons test negative to hiv shortly after the fluke and its stages are eliminated.
the basic recipe is the oil and vinegar in a 2:1 ratio.
but we can trick them into eating corn and soybeans by adding the flavors they like and thereby defeat their wisdom the same way we defeat ours.
salt and sugar, roasting  and flavoring, do most of it.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++be careful not to rave about the foods that your loved one cannot eat.
there are several ways to make a 10% grain alcohol solution.
i always find ascaris in persons with shingles!
it stays in you about  twenty minutes.
whereas grain was hulled, stored for quite a long time, perhaps  degerminated (the bran and germ picks up mold the fastest).
you should have at least 1/2 cup, more (up to 3/4 cup) is best.
they produce some of the most toxic chemicals known to exist.
these mold toxins cause hemorrhaging, appetite loss, and inability to swallow.
- canned beans, any variety.
lock the door and cover it with plastic.
yes, if made on a cookie sheet or in a frying pan. cheese
i have not personally determined their effectiveness.
they don't belong in air.
search  for lead, copper, and cadmium.
keep the vents to the bedrooms closed to reduce the air turbulence there but leave the cold air return open.
many common bacteria, especially staphylococcus aureus, choose the heart  as their favorite location.
barium found in lipstick draws cancer to the breast.
but you won't see them on the label because manufacturers prefer to use quantities below the levels they must disclose.
don't add chemicals (commercial cleaning solutions) to the  steam cleaning machine; these chemicals leave a residue in the carpet which  dries and flies up into the air to add to the dust.
others must accommodate to the elderly's need for body warmth.
29 tight diapers are a modern  atrocity, forcing mercury and thallium into the baby's sponge-like skin.
once salmonella is entrenched in an organ it is difficult to eliminate.
we pick them up daily.
these same bacteria colonize a cancer tumor and delay healing after the malignancy is stopped.
starting with the worst, they are: at first, tumors are benign - what a relief to find your tumor was benign.
use a flashlight to look for gallstones in the toilet with the bowel movement.
even after all these tests, the cost of laboratory salt is only $2.80 per pound.
you might think that such an invention should be quickly patented.
your loved one should not be the one who must suffer from medical politics.
beta-blockers have some quite  undesirable side effects but heart regularity has a higher priority.
heat 3 tsp. cornstarch in 1 cup of water, to boiling, until dissolved and clear.
surgeons will tell you that the bands have been  "overstretched".
beet root powder (see sources) 100% vegetable glycerin combine 1 tsp.
honey to a glass of milk and bring to a near boil.
the source of ascaris  is usually a pet, owned in the past.
older children and adults are quite susceptible to ergot too.
so learn to use a syncrometer, it  will save your life.
seek treatment elsewhere!
pure starch is very easy to digest  and has a large adsorptive capability for toxins.
this includes herbal  extracts and prescription drugs.
ask your pharmacist to make it from  scratch for you (there are only two ingredients and water, see the recipes  chapter).
if you can do both, you may be able to see  which organ allows the virus to replicate after it emerges.
even persons who don't live with a house dog can pick up  heartworm.
zap for seven minutes, killing all viruses, tapeworm stages and mites  together.
cook it with milk to add nutritive value.
if you still crave sugar after a week the problem is something else.
so you can see and avoid every bruise.
everything has a unique frequency 8 selective electrocution 9 bioradiation 12 zapping bugs 13
it does not dissolve.
if the elderly person is not producing four cups of urine in a day (24  hours), it is not enough.
it may be preventing spasm of  the bile ducts.
sometimes you feel the viral attack,  sometimes you don't.
so cure yourself, prevent reinfection, heal the damage and go through life  without this sword hanging over you.
if you are tracking adenovirus using the electronic techniques in this book, you will see that it infects you immediately after eating coughed-on food.
empty 1 gallon jug 1/8 cup borax powder plastic funnel funnel the borax into the jug, fill with cold tap water.
if the adrenal glands are not conserving salt properly, too  much sodium is allowed to leave the body with the urine, resulting in low  sodium levels in the blood and a blood pressure drop.
use a bit of onion and genuine herbs  to give it zest.
it is a time when we long for the foods of our own childhood, too.
the amount you use is immediately hung up, or attached, to your mucous and can not be quickly absorbed into the blood or other organs.
the stomach becomes a haven for salmonellas and other bacteria and this is the biggest digestive plague of the elderly.
dose on the very first day.
possibly because it  is so weak!
do not use any commercial salves, ointments, lotions, colognes, perfumes, massage oils, deodorant, mouthwash, toothpaste, even when touted as "herbal" and health-food-type.
we'll have such a | have a ... rock.
it normally lives quietly in the intestine.
the cure remember, zapping does not kill your cells.
once a wheelchair has been accepted, the last bit of exercise, walking, is lost.
it is the job of the liver to make bile, 1 to 1 1/2 quarts in a day!
- shampoo, even health varieties, has propyl alcohol!
even one whiff is too much.
day 4: take 4 drops in l/2 cup water same as above.
79 syncrometer schematic.
foods that are raised to very high temperatures, made possible with a  microwave oven, produce benzopyrenes.
day 2: take two  capsules 3 times a day.
if you must stay with gas, have a furnace repair person check your furnace and look for gas leaks before the heating season starts.
humans still obey their body wisdom about  varying their meals.
boil the milk yourself.
notice to the reader the opinions and conclusions expressed in this book are mine, and unless  expressed otherwise, mine alone.
it is the pollutants not appearing on  the label that pose sinister hazards.
but whether this is the true beginning of the body's problems we cannot know.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ your pet is part of your family and should be kept as sweet and clean and healthy as yourself.
or add fresh tomato chunks for creaminess.
because of hostility from insurance companies who do not wish to add  another cost to their ledger and doctors indoctrinated with misinformation, bad  publicity is given to this wonderful, life-prolonging mode of treatment.
the morning blood sugar test is essential to keep track of changing circumstances.
not enough oxygen to the brain is  the main cause of memory loss, inability to find the right words, getting words  mixed up and not being able to speak in sentences.
along with more detailed instructions and suggestions.
the worst possible habit is to wipe a child's  face and hands with the kitchen cloth.
with modern mechanized harvesting this should pose no problem.
insomnia insomnia is always associated with high levels of parasites and bacteria.
by pennington and  church, 1985.)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++the guidelines can be summarized as: +++ 1.
cinnamon 1/2 cup melted butter 1/2 cup honey pre-heat oven to 250 degrees.
others won't even notice.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ there are, no doubt, lots of safe supplements to be had.
but it needn't be a stroke, or heart  failure, or cancer.
maybe a stomach-full of baby ascaris is telling you to eat only food that  doesn't need a lot of acid: "just potatoes, bread and pasta, please, and  skip the sauce."
if you are only  listening to its beeps, you can't.
it belongs on the table with salt and pepper, and at the stove.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ you can dissolve all your kidney stones in 3 weeks, but make new ones in 3 days if you are drinking tea and cocoa and phosphated beverages.
it usually has ergot mold, a very serious  toxin.
only an electric zapper can kill them all (in an organ, not the bowel).
if it boils over, you will have a month of stove-cleaning to do.
you could take them both together, along with the bowel program, to be more successful, but the best single weight reducer is the liver cleanse.
your loved one will accept it and drink it without forceful coaxing, if there is no problem with it.
try to give a cleanse once a month until the dark  color of the stool returns and it no longer floats.
measures to reduce  mold are not effective enough.
we must listen to the elderly when they say  milk gives them gas or other troubles.
whenever a meat dish is not accepted, substitute sardines.
but why die before our life span is up?
begin by pouring salt and iodine ("povidone" iodine, topical  antiseptic, is available in most drug stores) on the mess and letting it stand  for 5 minutes before cleaning it up.
16 hookworms,  strongyles, and whipworms.
before and after a chelation treatment can show a dramatic change in mood, energy, appetite and communication ability, yet get no comment from your loved one.
the package is a major unlisted ingredient.
dislikes respect your body's opinion when it says, "no, i  don't want to eat that."
this chapter is a tribute to jimmy, nazy, michele, suzanne, marlena and  all the others who achieved excellence with daily care-taking of mary austin,  deceased at 97.
this is not clean enough, though.
spray walls, floors, carpets wherever you see them.
unable to feed, to run, to call for help brings pain, fear, loneliness and finally, death.
wisdom gathered from a knowledge of history, might help end  wars!
it can take years for the body's flora to "right themselves" after an antibiotic session, be patient.
they clean up bottoms.
add one inch of vanilla bean and one tsp.
remember to drink a cup of hot water upon rising in the morning.
their livers are strong enough to detoxify  occasional small amounts.
it usually has ergot mold, a very serious toxin.
especially if  they themselves complain about it.
only  metal-free plastic should be put back in your mouth.
even when the tremor lessens and the elderly person plainly states they feel better, family members may disregard your recommendations.
fish them  out with your toothbrush so it gets sterilized too.
it is not a chronic metabolic deterioration.
part of salt hunger is actually potassium hunger.
vacuuming a carpet blasts mites and tape eggs into the air.
after a hefty dose the liver is weakened for a long time - possibly years.
mark it with a pen at about one tenth of the way up from the bottom.
they are completely harmless, and are part of the bowel program.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++hiv stands for human immunodeficiency virus.
an elderly person  may have no diarrhea at all with the epsom salts!
although i find aflatoxin in commercial bread, i do not find it in carefully screened wheat that has had its discolored, shriveled seeds removed before using it for making bread, cereals and noodles.
but you should not spend more than two hours in the dentist's chair at any one time.
this is many person's favorite recipe.
pour 95% grain alcohol (190 proof) to this mark (for 50% grain alcohol or vodka make your mark one fifth of the way up).
the humidity and temperature of stored grain  should be regulated, requiring automated controls.
suspect food molds first, bacteria and chemical additives next.
but reinfection with an ebv-carrying eurytrema (plus a wood alcohol containing beverage to allow the fluke to go to the pancreas) can spark the next recurrence.
central air conditioning and a plain carbon filter at the furnace location (see  the sources chapter) may be the best solution in spite of blowing dust around  the house.
cleansing this chaff is just as important as purging stones.
acid foods  stimulate; spices and b-vitamins (especially b1) stimulate; hot foods  stimulate.
they  are on your kitchen sponge, and in any food or dishes that stand uncovered  anywhere in the home.
the cost of removing metals should be viewed in the proper light.
iron in the form of pills is too easily snatched up by  bacteria who also need it, making them more virulent to the body.
there are many brands and there are new ones being marketed constantly.
generally, you are in charge  of the flow rate.
and the danger of freon escaping from a tiny leak is another major health hazard.
use only supplements and brands recommended in the sources chapter, although the best approach is to test them yourself with your syncrometer.
borax (1/2 cup per load).
when you have used it down to the undissolved granules, add more water and shake again.
it is the main ingredient of non-chlorine bleach and has excellent cleaning power without fading colors.
then take niacinamide 500 mg to counteract the toxicity of the alcohol.
that great body of wisdom, your body, the same as listened to your three  wishes, will reward you over and over as you cooperate with it, until you have  had not 3 but 30 wishes granted, each one seemingly as impossible as climbing  mt. everest.
they have their preference for certain plants and conditions.
notice how calming it is to have extra magnesium in this gradual way.
your body is accustomed, natively, to interpret sugar, salt, and flavors  as "good, good, good."
this gives the liver a chance to catch up with detoxifying one pollutant while the new one builds up.
the  complete name of cavitations is alveolar cavitational osteopathosis.
to overcome resistance, find a cheerful neighborhood person willing to do this task for pay.
it will show you which symptoms came originally from your teeth.
honey is probably the best way to stimulate both thirst and appetite.
- plastic for fillings: composite materials.
the  attitude of the majority of dentists is: whatever the american dental  association (ada) says is ok, they will do.
have your car's air conditioning system checked.
answers might lead to new policies.
move to the other end of the house and furthest away from an attached garage door.
ordinary bread-toasters can do this too!
they may need to be off their heart medicine.
dare to try these new ideas and your illness promises  to recede.
the gas company misses 4 out of 5 leaks!
that's what clothing is for-to protect you.
although laws regulate the amount of ergot allowed in  foods (canada allows one ergot grain per 300 grains of #3 or #4 wheat), this is  not enough protection.
it is as different as corn on the cob is from the canned variety.
because not everyone agrees on what is toxic at what level.
when tablets cannot be swallowed; use magnesium oxide powder (see the sources chapter).
what a relief it is not to worry about reinfection from your pets.
this is due to gas made by bacteria.
often it is easy to see which organ is  failing.
treat things that are treatable for molds 4.
it will still take five or six hours for your white  blood cells to recover their ability to capture viruses, for the  "gag" to wear off.
what helps most is getting digestion completed.
the liver fights hard to detoxify aflatoxin and manage its own survival.
do not take more than 3 tsp.
the white should be solid.
their  previous symptoms return.
by the time you have done this you may as well have peeled them.
toxic food grilled food develops benzopyrenes in it that are very toxic.
in the absence of this  protection, use dryer heat to do your sterilizing.
drinking through a large plastic straw helps it go down easier.
at the very least, keep notes on all the sweeteners being used.
no one disputes the  extreme toxicity of mercury compounds and mercury vapor.
the two likely sources for the mold spores are: in the flour to begin with, or just flying about the bakery and landing on the newly baked loaves.
fish and seafood anything but deep fried (the oil may have benzene) is fine: baked, steamed, fish cakes, seafood cocktails, etc.
black walnut hull tincture extra strength every week or until your illness is but a hazy memory.
but also has added new hazards.
it can take all six to get rid of a bad shigella problem in a week.
or buy chemically pure salt (see the  sources chapter).)
without him, this book could not have been written.
in those days, vinegar was made of  good apples.
+++get your super-nutrition by juicing vegetables of all kinds +++and making herbal teas.
killing parasites and bacterial and viral invaders is fundamental.
you may even use vanilla extract (see sources).
packaged herb tea is  moldy and polluted with solvents.
it is stronger than the concentrate made with just a few +++black walnuts in a quart jar (my earlier recipe), because there +++are more walnuts per unit liquid.
you can often see mold yourself, as a thin scum on the surface or an opaque spot on the inside of the glass after the syrup has stood some time, even in the refrigerator.
carefully watch the effect on blood pressure when using it.
tea is quite moldy if purchased in bags.
it comes as a 100 mg. capsule (see the sources chapter).
this represents most of it.
use them  minimally and line them with tissue or paper towel.
improvements are not merely steps to yet further improvements.
some of the unnatural chemicals listed are present because of residues in the manufacturing process, but others you will actually see listed on the label!
instead of distributing these from room to room, throw the paper towel away after each room is done.
try not to get interrupted before the 6th day, so you know the adult intestinal flukes are dead.
| parsley | black walnut | wormwood | clove capsule | water | hull tincture | capsule | dose | | dose | dose | (side 0 or 00) ----+--------------+----------------+-------------+---------------
repeat a third time to insure that any toxin found came from the dentures, not the saliva.
when you decide to take some risks, make sure vitamin c has been added to the new food and mixed with it thoroughly.
and put you to the test.
so cure yourself, prevent reinfection, heal the damage and go through life without this sword hanging over you.
conditions like hesitant speech, shuffling walk, getting up stiffly and slowly from a chair.
with the convenience of our electric washing machine, we tend to overlook  the fact that underwear is always contaminated by fecal matter and urogenital  secretions and excretions.
(drinking water within minutes of sitting upright may also move the bowels  soon.)
the strong currents of air blow the dust about continuously.
potato harvest of the future.
chili or stew with unlimited rice-bread and butter.
if you have been suffering from a chronic infection or have cancer, or aids, learn to build the electronic device that will stop it immediately.
if it's salt, you might also love popcorn and other salty food.
pour one cup for yourself in the morning.
be ready for bed ahead of time.
don't clean up the kitchen.
diet cleanup breakfast cook your cereal from scratch.
days 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10: take three capsules 3 times a day.
turn off radiators and electric heaters and cover them with big plastic garbage bags, or paint them, or remove them.
and out of the stomach means relief: relief of the pressure on  the diaphragm and liver, heartburn, that too-full feeling, and other digestive  disturbances sugar your body runs on sugar.
a shawl, a lap-blanket, woolen sweater, long underwear  and fleecy thermal outerwear help a lot.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++do not use this recipe, nor keep any bottles of alcohol in the +++house of a recovering alcoholic.
to facilitate getting to the commode quickly in the night, dress the elderly in a short night shirt, no pajamas or long gown.
using a lemon or vinegar and honey beverage helps with digestion although  this provides citric or acetic acid, not hydrochloric.
if your child has too many foods on her or his personal "off list", let this signal you to improve liver function.
complete instructions for building and  using this device are contained in this book.
before the  appetite loss there may have been a broken hip.
but what a convenient place for baby  stages of the fluke to hide out and multiply, safe from your immune system.
is there a new laundry person?
it comes as a surprise that pure, genuine maple syrup has the deadly aflatoxin and other molds.
do not take  more than 3 tsp.
chips and fries were made in chemical grease called "hydrogenated."
ergotoxins, for example lsd, are active in extremely minute (less than a microgram, about one thousandth of a fly speck) quantities.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++vitamin c helps your body  detoxify all the mold toxins +++i have tested, including aflatoxin.
when you find  the culprit, you not only will be stopping the tremor, you will be improving a  lot of other conditions along the way.
benzene, a most unthinkable pollutant, is widespread in extremely small amounts.
and milk soup fresh broccoli with banana milk cheese sauce peppermint herb tea water bread and butter 1/2 cup milk chopped, peeled pear water and whipping cream 1 cup vegetable juice milk water day 4 french toast with avocado and sour lobster or sauteed maple syrup cream sandwich shrimp egg 1/2 cup vegetable juice fresh asparagus homemade grapefruit bread and butter potatoes, any style juice water 1/2 cup vegetable juice milk water water milk day 5 cooked cereal cold potato salad with 1 can sardines or 1 glass milk c dressing salmon in easy-open sliced banana with soup can (can openers shed whipping cream and 1/2 cup vegetable juice metal
if you start a new job that uses a foot, leg, hand  or wrist a lot, more than it was used before, even though it's in ordinary use,  it can feel injured.
keep it far away from food and out of children's reach.
dose: 1/4 cup four times a day on an empty stomach.
each different kind of cancer means the developmental stages of the intestinal fluke are present there.
so does new clothing; it is in the sizing.
by n. irving sax and richard j. lewis sr., van nostrand, reinhold n.y. 1989.)
it is important to find the poison as soon as you can since the rest of the body will soon be affected, too.
37 water pitcher with filter.
sometimes they  will describe "spells" of weakness.
if you do not drink milk because it gives you more mucous, try to drink milk anyway.
salt and sugar, roasting and flavoring, do most of it.
it does not have to be added to the milk; it can simply be included with the meal somewhere.
dab it on whenever needed.
policies supported at the grass roots level can bring about change.
until now they have been  controlled - kept down - by an ever vigilant immune system.
eating fish can give you a lot of calcium, but it is in the tiny bones hidden in the fish.
it should not be used while the elderly person is in the house and never for his or her laundry.
seal cracks in the basement and around pipes where they come through the wall with black plastic roofing cement.
light colored, roasted peanuts in the shell had no aflatoxin.
this would soon be cost effective, too, in terms of reduced spoilage losses and higher quality prices earned.
for foods you can't heat that high, for example nuts that are already roasted, or vinegar, vitamin c comes to the rescue.
spray 50% white distilled vinegar on counter tops, window sills and shelves and wipe, leaving residue.
watch the pot carefully as it comes to a boil.
xylene and toluene invite parasites to the brain.
should you avoid salt?
use the benzene pollution list to guide you.
milk that is marketed in paper containers that need no refrigeration has  been sterilized; it is safe.
these are gallstones.
take these supplements just before your meal to avoid burping.
a few drops of food grade hydrogen peroxide added to a little water in a glass should be enough to make your mouth foam and cleanse.
except in cases of disease.
figure 42: keep both salt and vitamin c powders in closable plastic  shakers.
sometimes  we know what started it all.
although i find aflatoxin in commercial bread, i do not find it in  carefully screened wheat that has had its discolored, shriveled seeds removed  before using it for making bread, cereals and noodles.
discuss it with the nurse.
but what a bad trade it is.
if the cold has moved or won't budge, try another set of three after an hour.
never touch the bottoms of shoes!
each tansy and thyme, 2 tbs.
toss all ingredients in mixing bowl.
no doubt, the last thing you do before leaving the kitchen is squeeze it dry with your hands.
you must use your second-best ally, your intelligence.
step out of your old world.
often others are not impressed.
all bottled water is polluted with antiseptics from the bottling proceedure.
you have just eaten a culture sampling from your own kitchen sponge.
the new ones are very much superior to those used 10 years ago and they will continue to improve.
don't buy batter, make your own.
bananas are the  top choice.
if the problem  is leaking house gas, don't accept "we can't find a leak," implying  there is none.
mix whipping cream with sterilized milk to make a  "half n half" for the cereal.
don't eat the green on the potato.
if the cancer damaged your ovaries or prostate, you still  must heal these organs.
you will need to search several times during the day to find it in your white blood cells.
contents figures xiii preface xvii
doctors are very understanding and sympathetic with your intent.
sea salt must be baked for 5 minutes at 400f to destroy molds.
try to change the menu to stimulate the appetite.
any bacterium or toxin that invades certain brain centers can cause  tremor.
genes are the most reliable of all biological chemicals in your body.
dr. clark: don't accept intravenous (iv) treatments during amalgam removal.
the amount of urine produced or the weight of the person can be used to assess how effective your method is.
or brush with food grade hydrogen peroxide, not the regular variety (see the sources chapter).
lead from solder joints in copper plumbing.
your  body wisdom has returned.
reduce it if it  seems too large to swallow.
every time you  talk, come quite near to the person's ear and speak loudly.
day 1: take 1 capsule before supper (with water).
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++family members and friends should take 2 tsp.
hot milk and a piece of cake (homemade, never chocolate) may do as much.
heat 1 level tsp. sodium alginate plus 1 cup water until dissolved.
don't buy plastic-wrapped bread.
if you believe the air is free of highway exhaust and industrial smoke  open the windows every day.
try to understand these communications: what you | what the elderly | what they think | what they respond (caregiver) say | person hears | | ------------------+-------------------+------------------+-------------------
very many have been studied besides aflatoxin producers.
because commercial cold cereals are very convenient, but have solvents, here are two replacements.
if most of the urine is passed in the night this reflects on unhealthy kidneys.
add a squirt of lemon juice when done.
when we cough into our hands and then eat with them, we self-infect.
the label gives you the final "actual lot analysis" of the product.
store remainder in refrigerator.
it can be as strong as desired.]
it  comes as a surprise that pure, genuine maple syrup has the deadly aflatoxin and  other molds.
a  properly cleaned socket which is left after an extraction will heal and fill  with bone.
there are many brands and there  are new ones being marketed constantly.
otherwise the nicotine patch and estrogen patch wouldn't work.
dr. jerome: dentists are not commonly given information on these metals  used in plastics.
you can freely experiment with niacin to  find the best dosage and variety; it is not toxic in this amount; but the size  of the tablet should not turn it into an unpleasant chore.
you are "catching" a cold!
grind, adding salt and vitamin c (1/4 tsp.
try baking several potatoes at one time, refrigerate and put them in a salad the next night.
most dentists never look at a dental materials book after they  graduate.
this is even more medieval.
if your loved one is already on a pill for beginning diabetes, take this as your challenge never to let it get worse.
the time it takes depends  on how much mold you ate.
ask a dentist familiar with cavitations to do a mouth search.
it could cause pms, ovarian cysts and infertility.
if not, it is imported, and probably contains asbestos.
my opinion is based on over 500 cases, including many persons in their seventies and eighties.
the cause is usually a drug that is being taken to correct a fast pulse!
is it a coincidence that adenovirus appeared directly after a tapeworm stage or mite died?
the promise step into a new world.
many people need only this.
examples of commercial "food lube".
by selecting wise habits your improved lifestyle pays you back for the rest of your life.
especially if it is about their own imminent death.
these pollutants were identified using a testing device of  my invention known as the syncrometer.
kill ascaris on a frequency generator (408 khz) or zap.
keep it at the bedside,  use small capsules or tablets and combine this chore with water drinking.
your dentist should do a complete x-ray examination of your mouth.
this keeps out weevils too, so  you won't have to put the box in the freezer later to kill them.
and we'd continue wanting sugar, sugar, sugar the way a pet might want its favorite food and nothing else.
repeat a third time to insure that any  toxin found came from the dentures, not the saliva.
a world without chronic diseases.
the baby tries it once, and learns to reject it immediately.
if you have none of these, perhaps because you live in a senior citizen community or condominium, don't keep any toxic things stored anywhere.
use no artificial sweetener and no beverages besides milk, water and the  recipes given in this book.
simmer 20-30 minutes.
starting with the worst, they are: freon (same as cfcs or refrigerant).
use washing soda and borax in the wash cycle.
make it fresh every week.
don't  worry about cholesterol since you will be doing liver cleanses anyway.
your cells do it with mucous secretion, inflammation and other unknown ways.
your immune system can keep up with them quite easily provided you don't have a mold in you at the same time.
there are three common salmonella varieties: salmonella  enteriditis, salmonella paratyphi, and salmonella typhimurium (386, 380, 354  khz).
54 don't eat the green on the potato.
doctors, even primitive and natural healers, surround themselves with mystery as they use herbs or chemicals and incantations or "prognoses" to help the sick recover.
monthly trips to  your vet are not sufficient.
try to think about what is happening in the liver.
562 the sick have been held hostage for their money or intangible assets since time immemorial.
so you can't catch a cold directly from some sneezy companion, or e. coli,  or tapeworm stages, or mites.
the newly contaminated dust  drops into your ready and waiting glasses on the table and the open foods.
a chelation doctor can easily see the state of oxygenation.
grain alcohol and/or borax liquid on top.
you use  more and more propyl alcohol.
the result is that you can be eating rotten moldy food without knowing it.
but you may feel quite attached to the gold, so ask the dentist to give you everything she or he removes.
follow the mold free diet on page 365.
and cholesterol levels may rise.
molds  must have a degree of moisture.
in adults 70 leg pain protocol 73
only if the weather doesn't allow outdoor walking can an indoor walk be substituted.
should public inspection of food manufacturing be a right?
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++you may not need to get rid of your pet to keep yourself free of +++parasites.
would more disclosure of industrial practices be an answer?
9 feed animals out of your yard and away from where children play.
clean up outdoor messes the same way.
surgeons will tell you that the bands have been "overstretched".
candies, throat lozenges, store-bought cookies, cakes -
sea salt must be baked for 5  minutes at 400f to destroy molds.
don't save any  leftover paints, solvents or cleaners.
inside the lines are your old ideas.
what if you could turn a dial and in 3 minutes kill every coxsackie virus  in your child's body?
of grain alcohol in it and turning it up side down so the filter can soak for 15 minutes.
cytochalasin b cytochalasin b ("cyto b") is another immune lowering fungus.
for a serious problem, use 50% grain alcohol (100 proof vodka) in a spray bottle at the bathroom sink.
their  equipment is better.
middle age might begin at  65, old age at 90.
this will probably be the most heavenly peanut butter your mouth has ever experienced.
as each fluke dies and is finally removed, the body's white blood cells can catch up with the viruses and you begin to feel better again, which can be as quick as one day.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++you may be wondering why you should wait for five days before taking the 2 tsp. dose.
the key to cholesterol control is not fat avoidance, but a liver cleanse!
restaurants (excluding fast food) are generally quite safe to eat at.
purchase or make a zapper or use somebody's frequency generator (434 khz to 421 khz giving 3 minutes to each khz).
| 3 | 3, 3, 3 7 | now once a week | 4 | 3, 3, 3 8 |  | 4 | 3, 3, 3 9 | | 5 | 3, 3, 3 10 | | 5 | 3, 3, 3 11 | | 6 | 3 12 | | 6 | now  once a week 13 | 2 tsp. | 7 | 14 | | 7 | 15 | | 7 | 16 | | 7 | 17 | | now once  a week | 18 | | | 3 at this point you do not need to keep a strict schedule, but instead may  choose any day of the week to take all the parasite program ingredients.
the shortening is  due to failure of some organ in us.
dentists routinely do not clean the socket of tissue remnants or  infected bone.
acute poisoning has followed the ingestion of toxic quantities of a thallium-bearing depilatory and accidental or suicidal ingestion of rat poison.
see also  thallium and specific compounds.
water with vinegar  and honey.
if they do, they do not understand good alternative dentistry.)
the real culprit is parasite invaders and toxic pollutants.
don't kneel on the floor to do some cleaning job.
don't serve grapes or  strawberries due to the intense mold problem.
mix it with home made preserves, honey, marmalade, not very  homogeneously so the bright colors and individual flavors stand out in  contrast.
this is still not clean enough; use a final damp paper towel with skin sanitizer added.
remember that the syncrometer can only determine the presence or absence of something, not the concentration.
the whole world needs to come out of the dark ages of medicine and illness.
yet their cancer-promoting ability is known in many cases.
ergot is a  common contaminant of grains: don't provide rye or pumpernickel breads or  crackers.
[now comes (i) through (43)  permissible sterilizing solutions, including several with isopropyl alcohol,  like:] (25)
it may sting briefly.
yes, but only from a bakery, and never wrapped in plastic.
thallium is an  experimental teratogen [used to induce birth defects for study].
tuna sandwich with baked sweet potato with cooked with raisins olives and butter butter and sweetening.
86  function generators.
your mouth should be metal free and bacteria free (cavitations are cleaned).
parasites and pollution brought you the bad  things.
store hydrogen peroxide only in polyethylene or the original plastic bottle.
even using one of these, like your  favorite shampoo or bottled water, will result in failure.
test the things you dearly love but can't make 3.
monitor blood clotting time if your loved one is on a thinner.
the time delay  is a time of lowered immunity and facilitates a growth spurt for parasites and  pathogens.
other clues digestion problems that remain after eliminating bacteria can be diagnosed  in a rational way.
in medieval days, the barn for the animals was attached to the house.
cats and dogs with their monolithic diet get no opportunity to reject food (except by vomiting or starvation).
the toxin,  patulin, in moldy apples has been carefully studied by scientists.
switch to composite tooth fillings.
the lethal dose for a man by ingestion is 0.5-1.0 gram.
the salmonellas and shigellas will have come from some food.
remember, zapping does not kill your cells.
pour some into a larger bottle to dispense on skin.
thus it is not just for cancer, but a general treatment that can benefit almost every illness.
if one or two doses of lugol's cures the problem, stop.
mumps, measles, chicken pox, cmv,  staphylococcus aureus, e. coli, are all there.
goat milk is probably better than cows' milk, but more difficult tc get used to.
surgically shortening the bands that  hold the bladder in position (called bladder "lifting") can give  temporary relief, but the surgeon may be the first to tell you that it is a  temporary fix.
it only takes minutes to  kill everything.
even though you needed three pads to be "safe" you will not need any.
available in clear and pink.
and the immediate problems are too  pressing to allow much contemplation of future problems.
this lets the dentist see impacted teeth, root  fragments, bits of mercury buried in the bone and deep infections.
the tables are gradually being turned against us in favor of our parasites and pathogens.
i found this recipe in an old recipe book.
fish them out with your toothbrush so it gets sterilized too.
don't use your mother's  aluminum ware; use her enamel ware or the new glass and ceramic ware.
although i am prejudiced against all sugar from a health standpoint, my testing revealed no benzene, propyl alcohol, wood alcohol.
until all vitamins and minerals and other food supplements have been analyzed for pollutants, after they are encapsulated or tableted, they are not safe.
if this is undesirable, use only half as much citric acid.)
what a relief for the bone marrow whose job it is to make red blood cells to have enough vitamin b12 again!
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ molds and colds this is part two of the cold story.
porcelain is not  recommended.
when the bubbles have risen to indicate boiling, turn off the heat.
remember to give yourself the credit for a fine accomplishment when your loved one's diabetes improves.
you can do better than the government by dropping your standard for toxic metals to zero!
your loved one is walking better, needing less sleep, and a  "golden age" finally arrives.
if the medicines are toxic just change brands.
you must be sure of its sterility.
look at the sun- | look at something | what a stupid | mmmhmmmm.
is there a different water  supply?
red potatoes have different chemistry that doesn't produce the green toxin, buy these often.
[section omitted because of all the figures] figure 78.
take it to your bedside if you want, but drink it standing up.
it should be kept in a closed plastic bag in the garage.
sometimes it shows up in pockets that hang like giant oranges from the skin.
baked  apple with cinnamon, cream and honey.
goat milk is also fine.
to be safe, remove the belt from your dryer and check to see if it says "made in usa" on the belt itself.
don't lick your fingers to turn pages or open plastic bags.
use a non-metal pot that holds one to two  quarts.
zearalenone zearalenone, an anabolic and uterotrophic metabolite, is frequently  found in commercial cereal grains and in processed foods and feeds, and is  often reported as causative agent of naturally occurring hyperestrogenism and  infertility in swine, poultry and cattle.
for the elderly pay special attention to chlorine in the air.
most companies do offer this but don't tell the customer  because of the dreadful amount of time it would take if everybody took  advantage of it.
eat homemade yogurt and add honey  or homemade preserves yourself.
the thermometer does not tell all.
it is now apparent to me that adenovirus isn't our (a human) virus at all!
cure yourself of retinitis pigmentosa,  muscular dystrophy (the "inherited" kind), and break down your  family's faith in the gene-concept for these diseases.
so the toxic effects of a dose of aflatoxin aren't even noticeable for several weeks!
adding roughage to the diet is a good solution but often doesn't work.
but you might consider just stopping them all.
imagine the situation if your garden hose had marbles in it.
temperature can mean  everything to the never-thirsty person.
make a test substance.
it kills all germs and is inexpensive.
but then the bread is encased in plastic to hold in moisture and keep it "fresh".
lemon juice or vinegar can be put in certain foods but the most reliable  way to get it into the diet is to put 1 tablespoon into the water glass along  with a teaspoon of honey.
there is a very sound reason.
the syncrometer is more accurate and versatile than the best existing testing methods.
asparagus, meat dish, white rice (brown rice contains mold), coleslaw,  milk, water, ice cream.
you will be  told that "noble" metals like gold and platinum and silver are ok,  that they are "inert" and do not corrode or seep.
for instance aluminum is commonly added as a "skin moisturizer".
resolve to leave  it behind.
canned meats are safe from living parasites, but are not recommended due to added chemicals.
hot water soothes and heals.
if you want immediate action, get some lemons, cut the yellow outer peel off and cover with grain alcohol in a tightly closed jar.
the prison has  no walls.
getting away from grains in view of the many molds that are grain-related, and because these cannot be seen or smelled in pastas, breads, cold cereals, it would be wise to steer away from grain consumption.
flavors and colors for food must be extracted somehow from the leaves or bark or beans from which they come.
don't put any chemicals on your eyelids, since this penetrates into your eye.
take vitamin c (10 grams or 2 tsp.), a b50 complex (2 tablets), and  niacinamide (3 500 mg tablets) to help detoxify the mycotoxins already in you.
figure 46: every brand of popcorn and corn chips i tested had zearalenone contamination.
no mexican brands of pasta, like the one  pictured (right), had any molds.
undercooking the vegetables also helps slow down the  sugar release.
when the stool floats you can assume that calcium isn't being absorbed either,  leaving the blood in a deficit which will be taken from the bones.
add enough hot water to dissolve.
but it  doesn't last long.
- your largest enamel or ceramic (not stainless steel, not aluminum) cooking pot, preferably at least 10 quarts - black walnuts, in the hull, each one still at least 50% green, enough to fill the pot to the top - grain alcohol, about 50% strength, enough to cover the walnuts - 1/2 tsp.
this should make the  task easier.
is it a coincidence that adenovirus appeared directly after a tapeworm  stage or mite died?
yes, if not in a bag and not in a mixture of herbs.
perhaps they can sense the benefit it brings them.
will it become a full blown cold of the usual kind?
commercial beverages are especially toxic due to traces of solvents left over from the manufacturing process.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ keep 3 or 4 kinds on hand, such as peach, pineapple, and pear.
use boric acid to leave a residue that kills roaches and  fleas (but not ants).
there are 2 extra rules that help eliminate benzene buildup:
milk served hot with cinnamon accomplishes two purposes: it will  stimulate acid secretion and the cinnamon is an insulin aid.
what a  relief it is not to worry about reinfection from your pets.
when they balk at having  to take herbs or vegetable juice, remind them of the days they were on a  handful of pills and still had heart failure, pain and kidney disease.
in the sink 527 shampoo 528 hair spray 529 homemade soap 529 liquid soap 530 skin sanitizer 530 deodorant 531 brushing teeth 532 for dentures 533 mouthwash 533 contact lens solution 533 lip soother 534 foot powder 534 skin healer moisturizer lotion 534 other skin healers 535 massage oil 536 sunscreen lotion 536 nose salve 536 quick corn starch skin softener 537 cornstarch skin softener 537
only a few drops of these acids under each armpit are necessary.
not enough oxygen to the brain is the main cause of memory loss, inability to find the right words, getting words mixed up and not being able to speak in sentences.
they may not have requested this, out of a sense of guilt or masochism, or  plain dementia.
another fluke disease cancer is so easily cured because it is a parasite-caused disease.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++quassia recipe add 1/8 cup quassia chips to 3 cups water.
this encourages the elderly, letting them know their existence and quality of life is important to you.
better kitchen habits once a day, sterilize the sponge or cloth you use to wipe up the table, counter tops and sink.
if you must keep the juicer or dishes outside of cupboards, keep them covered or placed upside down so they don't catch dust.
your metal crowns can be changed to  plastic.
a sound sleep refreshes as nothing else can.
it lands on tables and counters.
lunch - soup without noodles, without rice or any grain  product.
if constipation is a problem, use an herbal product rather than a drug until you have removed the cause.
mint leaves boil for one minute in a quart of water, add a dash of vitamin c and brown sugar to taste.
walking should be done outdoors.
it is safe and without side effects and does not interfere with any treatment you are now on.
a big thank you goes to frank jerome, dds.
sodium alginate is also available in capsule form at some health food stores.)
mix equal parts white distilled vinegar and water.
food-grade hydrogen peroxide.
they get  quite fond of these cleanses and will ask to have one.
herb tea with  milk added (single herb only, not mixed herbs).
some can  do part of the work and refer you to a specialist for the rest.
even if you have a gas hot water heater, the heated water leaches metals or glues from your pipes.
if the liver is absolutely unable to  handle something, you are informed quite quickly with an allergic reaction to  the food.
(the molds could be detoxified with vitamin c the same way as  honey.
test yours and switch brands until you find a safe one. - vaseline products (noxzema(tm), vick's(tm), lip therapy(tm)), chap stick, hand cleaners - vitamins and other health supplements, unless tested.
open the blood vessels wider.
make  your own ice cream and nut butters.
it has time to get to its favorite organ  and enter the cells there.
fortunately, your health improvement does not need to wait on such  studies.
vitamin c powder (for a pint of nuts) and mix.
to a quart of water).
if they do, they do not  understand good alternative dentistry.)
to test it,  place it in a plastic bag, wet it thoroughly and search from 510 khz downward,  one khz at a time.
then dab on cornstarch.
mini doses may be given in a shorter time.
bad digestion bad digestion with its excessive gas and burping is another plague of the  elderly.
24 stomach, esophagus, diaphragm, gallbladder.
- never eat food off the floor! -
this recipe contains herbs traditionally used to help the liver function, while the liver cleanse gets gallstones out.
al1 these, including a gas leak from the pipes  in the house, compete with oxygen.
never cleanse when you are ill.
undercooking the vegetables also helps slow down the sugar release.
pour whipping cream and honey over them.
drink one cup each day.
improvements are not merely  steps to yet further improvements.
yes, turbinado or brown if treated with vitamin c. herb tea
what is on the hands that you don't want to eat but can't see?
just pull apart and season.
try not to get interrupted before  the 6th day, so you know the adult intestinal flukes are dead.
with gallstones, much less cholesterol leaves the body.
the correct volume for red blood cells is  about 90 cubic microns.
the brain and body need every pulse of blood sent out right on time.
it is  feeling happy to see the sky and to see growing things and to feel confident in  human society's progress.
it is impossible to remember everything about every food, but in general do not buy foods that are highly processed.
finally, clean your hands with diluted grain alcohol (dilute 1 part alcohol with 4 parts water) or vodka.
i found all calorie boosters to be polluted with wood alcohol.
coxsackie viruses give us some of our encephalitises.
cases of industrial poisoning are rare, however.
tremor tremor is a symptom, not a natural part of aging.
they do, however,  contain enough barium or zirconium to make them visible on x-rays.
but how would you know this?
they will appreciate it.
start the wormwood a week later.
our noses collect such pathogens and we blow them out again.
in half an hour it is overflowing with growth.
be sure to zap after taking your maintenance  parasite treatment.
stir and serve food with wood or plastic, not metal utensils.
you may add any flavoring desired.
day 2: take 1 capsule before supper day 3: take 2 capsules before supper.
day 4: take 2 capsules  before supper.
if you allow the work to be done by a dentist  who does not understand the importance of the above list, you could end up with  new problems.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ simmer for 1/2 hour: 12 medium-sized raw, ripe tomatoes, 1/2 cup water, 1 slice onion, 2 ribs celery with leaves, 1/2 bay leaf, 3 sprigs parsley.
weak spells are gone and forgotten.
it may get in your lungs if they're full of arsenic or formaldehyde, in your throat if it's full of mercury from your fillings, in your spinal cord if it's full of thallium.
you get them from other people, your family, yourself, your home, your pets,  undercooked meat, and undercooked dairy products.
homemade  tomato juice with celery, strained.
plus a regular  cleaning service.
learn how to identify and remove what causes your cancer -- your body will do  the rest.
getting rid of propyl alcohol is also a simple task.
tack a sheet of plastic over it to slow down the rate of fume entrance into the house.
for spreadability, especially for children, grind an equal volume of cold butter along with the peanuts.
mix the pulp with an equal amount of clover honey and use as topping (kept in freezer) for homemade ice cream (below), pancakes, or yogurt.
leave it for stronger hands.
having the milk warm to hot helps in getting digestion started in the stomach.
never, never use fiberglass as a filter or to insulate your air conditioner around the sides.
add vitamin c after thawing or during refrigeration (1/4 tsp.
all bottled water  is polluted with antiseptics from the bottling proceedure.
then kill your tapeworm stage or mite by zapping for seven minutes.
they appear as a "chaff" floating on top of the toilet bowl water.
or  freeze half of it (take the potatoes out first).
published in the united states by promotion publishing 3368f governor drive suite 144 san diego, ca 92122 isbn 1-887314-02-4 other books by dr. clark available from promotion publishing: the cure for all cancers the cure for hiv and aids 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 i would like to express my gratitude to my son, geoffrey, who always listened to my "crazy ideas" on sundays, right at supper time.
the metal does come out of the  porcelain!
some simply kill  white blood cells.
add just enough water to keep the fruit from sticking as it is cooked (usually a few tablespoons).
cold body temperature is an  invitation for fungus and viruses to multiply.
not every day's chlorine exposure will have the same effect.
door knobs, taped walker handles, and cane handles should be wiped daily with a grain alcohol solution.
you may ask your pharmacist to order this for you.
special clean-up for fiberglass 447 special clean-up for asbestos  447 your house 448 unnatural chemicals 451 bioelectronics 457 making a  syncrometer 457 making a hobby kit syncrometer 458 making test plates 460 test  plates parts list 460 test plates assembly 461 using the syncrometer 462  resonance 465
in fact, if any family member  should accidentally eat something poisonous, drinking cornstarch will quickly  mop it up and keep it stuck so it can't enter your tissues.
for people with a metal filling  in every tooth, or for the extraction of all teeth (plus dentures), it may be  up to $3,000 (or more in some places).
makes about 1 1/2 cups of juice.
you wouldn't expect even a gold or  silver coin that was dropped in a fountain 50 years ago to be intact.
take your loved one to a nurse for ear  cleaning every six months after hearing aids are begun.
sometimes the white composite fillings are called porcelain  fillings but they are not.
indigestion that starts right  after eating is probably due to salmonellas.
our future, unless we act.
sometimes it gets to other organs, like the muscles, the spleen, the pancreas.
but when these stages +++are transmitted to a cancer patient, they immediately seek out the +++cancerous organ again.
the stomach is the weak point of the digestive process for the elderly because nearly all don't produce enough acid to get the job done.
it had the following pollutants: pcbs, mercury, ruthenium, thulium, strontium, praseodymium, aluminum, benzalkonium.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ herbal parasite killing program flatworms, roundworms, protozoa, even bacteria and viruses are remarkably  easy to kill using a combination of zapping and this herbal program.
by mixing spoiled food with good food, by adding flavors and changing the food consistency, parents can't distinguish substandard foods, nor teach their children to.
but no blemish, no cut, no dark spot inside may be left for you to eat.
seeing themselves gain strength and be able to do more for themselves gives the elderly a sense of pride.
the cancer causing or carcinogenic action of metals has been studied for a long time, although it doesn't get attention by our regulatory agencies.
goods baked in a panaderia (mexican style bakery) never tested positive to molds.
make sure all dairy foods are absolutely sterile.
he recommended apple cider vinegar for its extra potassium.
none of the old fashioned tortillas (made with just corn, water, lime) that i tested had any mold, even without propionate added!
modern cloth furniture with its foam interior is a repository of filth and fumes and a constant source of infectious dust.
mix 1/4 tsp. to a pint of water and dab it on.
chronic health problems are not due to exposures of the past.
a better solution is to wear a hat or stay out of the sun.
chicken only if cooked for 20 minutes at boiling point, as in soup, or canned (never pre pare raw chicken yourself).
it is not in dairy products or fresh fruit and  vegetables, provided you wash the outside.
ten drops contain 40,000 iu.
my tests show  it is always present in cancer patients; in other words it has built up due to  the body's inability to detoxify it in a reasonable time.
like horse and wagon the  heart provides the power and the kidneys follow.
since both herbs and homeopathic remedies work on the principle of ejection, they could eject each other.
maybe one part potassium chloride to two or three parts sodium chloride is a better mixture for you.
keep refrigerated afterwards.
get  orange blossom, linden blossom, buckwheat, wildflower, and sage honey, besides  clover blossom.
in this book you will learn how to do that.
surely it is keeping all your  cells healthy so they can coordinate the constant tasks of nourishing  themselves, removing their wastes, plus whatever job that cell was meant to do.
it may be possible to find sterilized milk in paper containers on the store shelf - not in the refrigerator; if it wasn't sterile it would go foul in a day!
if they are fighting against the whole business, they will  say things like, "you don't have to shout.
you  also know that gentle persuasion is useless; it merely erodes your  relationship.
dessert is homemade ice cream (see the recipes chapter).
let us speculate what could really be happening.
+++fail to work, even when coupled  with strong heart medicine +++(digitoxin(tm)), the kidney herb recipe can bail  you out of the +++emergency.
instructions for its use come with the product.
remove the tiny creatures that cause microscopic  bleeding instead.
and if you are already fatigued, this means you might be even more fatigued for a short time.
just decades ago lead was  commonly found in paint, and until recently in gasoline.
this raises the temperature much  higher than boiling.
the mucus in our lungs traps them and in a few days they  die, only to release a drove of adenoviruses (common cold virus) in us.
it would be wise to teach children the habits that maximize their immune strength.
lysine powder or 8 tablets, 500 mg each 1 tsp.
adding lemon  peel to the rinse also adds luster and ant deterrence.
the treatments outlined herein are not intended to be a replacement or  substitute for other forms of conventional medical treatment.
it is caused by the same parasite but the solvent is benzene instead of propyl alcohol.
sometimes iron levels are low and can explain the  low red blood cell count.
just heating a food to the boiling point does not kill the molds.
get a realistic picture of benefits and costs.
these homemade deodorants are not as powerful as the commercial varieties-this is to your advantage.
cancer could be completely eliminated in the entire country if laws  required testing for solvents in animal feeds and human food and products.
your own immune system is the most powerful cold killer, so stop handicapping it.
it couldn't be put there intentionally, look how toxic it is: tej500 hr: 3 thallium compounds thallium and its compounds are on the community
it is important to find the  poison as soon as you can since the rest of the body will soon be affected,  too.
if all this is too much work, make fresh vegetable juice once a week and  freeze enough so that you can have a daily nutritious meal just by pouring a  glass of it, together with bread and yogurt or milk.
that  was my universal advice.
it is a precious phenomenon.
(and you have no symptoms, yet,  either!)
dr. jerome: many people (and dentists too) believe that porcelain is a  good substitute for plastic.
another reason bowel bacteria are so hard to eradicate is that we are constantly reinfecting ourselves by keeping a reservoir on our hands and under our fingernails.
mexican food any of the numerous baked dishes.
don't use any soap at all for dishes that aren't greasy and can be washed under the faucet with nothing but running water.
try to turn your loved one's cycle back to night-time sleeping if it has become turned around by bad kidney function (frequent urination at night) or too much daytime napping.
the  patient has to be asked!
bread is a good example.
moldy food everything that's animal or vegetable can  get moldy.
be sure no undercooked or fast food meats are eaten.
simply stay seated  until you are comfortable again.
muscles that are diseased will take in the  newcomer and allow it to survive adding to the parasites and pollutants already  there!
leave only the borax soap, homemade soap, and grain alcohol antiseptic.
it couldn't be put  there intentionally, look how toxic it is: tej500 hr: 3 thallium compounds thallium and its compounds are on the  community
available  in clear and pink.
for dry, burning lips.
the enzyme, carbonic anhydrase, a zinc enzyme, is involved.
use white only, brown is too moldy.
old fashioned toasters had a layer of metal separating the bread from the  wires.
it is not necessary to zap the virus itself at 365 khz.
central air conditioning and a plain carbon filter at the furnace location (see the sources chapter) may be the best solution in spite of blowing dust around the house.
you may solve  the constipation problem immediately by zapping.
dust mites live on our dander (scales of dead  skin).
but the same molds can grow on many plants.
-------------- metal fillings change to plastic fillings inlays and onlays change to plastic fillings crowns (all types) change to plastic crowns bridges change to plastic crowns, partials metal partials change to plastic partials (flexite(tm))
soup is a nice change.
their body wisdom guides them.
your  aflatoxin-ed liver then lets propyl alcohol build up after using it.
every wheelchair patient i tested was positive for thallium!
perhaps it is not possible to bake 24 hours a day in the same  building, year after year, without bits of flour and moisture accumulating in  the millions of tiny cracks and crevices that all buildings have and  germinating mold.
it should not be under (more acid than) 5.5.
there are no alternatives available without these metals.
read the insert included with packaging for all drugs used.
what kind of soup | what kind of hoop | i haven't used a | i don't know.
next best is to provide acid.
rinse and soak again in fresh water.
the spasming was probably caused by sorghum molds.
for persons merely over 40 and not ill a most important rule is: don't overdo.
vitamin c powder (you may crush tablets) 1/4 cup vegetable glycerin 1 cup water prepare wipes by cutting paper towels in quarters.
equal parts glycerin and water or to suit your need.
you wouldn't slice a tomato or egg directly on the counter top.
seeing themselves gain strength and be able to do more for themselves  gives the elderly a sense of pride.
old fashioned radiant heat from radiators or a stove did not distribute the dust so effectively.
staphylococcus aureus is a bacterium hiding out in far away places like  pockets left under teeth when they were extracted or along root canals.
when water "doesn't taste good," there is probably a valid reason.
it is more than replacing acknowledged culprits like mercury-amalgam fillings.
using a variety of honeys can make up for the need to vary the flavor.
other ozone routes, as intravenous or rectal, have not been observed to be as effective.
a metal wall between  them absorbs some of the heat.
keep shoes off couch or bed or chair.
avoid these  chemicals.
if that  happens to be your respiratory system, you get classic symptoms.
continue increasing in this way to day 14, whereupon you are up to seven capsules.
since both herbs and homeopathic  remedies work on the principle of ejection, they could eject each other.
would communicating with other cancer and aids survivors be useful?
every step on the carpet sends up a puff of dust.
the extra strength recipe is four times as potent as the original recipe, so it must be diluted in quarters.
how do you know which toxins are responsible for your cancer?
vitamin c powder 1/2 tsp.
would getting away from fossil fuel be a big answer?
using a nonfiberglass  filter at the furnace is a better idea.
this fills the house  with tiny particles of glass to be breathed by everybody.
if it is not sterile the final warming will only increase the bacterial count.
less than 60 beats per minute will lead to trouble.
cottage cheese no, it can't be sterilized easily.
fruit cup, large bowl of peeled, chopped mixed fruit with whipping cream  and 1 tbs.
having three or four such spreads in the refrigerator will give your  children the right perspective on food - homemade is better.
use grain  alcohol rinse in the bathroom to kill ascaris and hookworm eggs under  fingernails.
even the niacin-flush, which reddens the face and neck is welcomed since it gives a sensation of warmth.
more flavorings are added.
- plastic for fillings: composite  materials.
especially if it is  about their own imminent death.
most of the drugs on the market can cure some symptoms in less than one hour.
answers might lead to  new policies.
ethnic foods often had to be given up when  children were raised (switched to hot dogs and pizza) but with this diversion  gone, a return to family food would be most welcome and most healthful.
many persons with sensitive stomachs prefer to stay longer on each dose instead of increasing according to this schedule.
temperature can mean everything to the never-thirsty person.
if all this improvement doesn't warm up their feet or hands (feel them  yourself) put extra socks on.
you can't breath the industrial "soup" all day and  night and expect to stay healthy.
will there never be a way to conquer them?
your electronic technique can detect them in your body long before you  are made ill by them.
ask that the milk be boiled for ten seconds and other foods that can't be sterilized are not on the menu, like sour cream.
you must, of course, first eat or inhale the dust.
it is a herculean task but only gets harder each day, so keep notes as you ask: is there new carpeting?
pets teach health lessons dogs don't eat hay and cats don't eat fruit.
did somebody bring a vase of fresh flowers?
always choose potatoes, because it is a vegetable instead of a  grain, if you have a choice.
(thursday plantation  100% pure tea tree oil antiseptic) tear out that page, put it on your refrigerator, and make a copy to stick  on your medicine cabinet.
avoid these chemicals.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ when the body can no longer detoxify benzene it soon may not be able to  detoxify propyl alcohol.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++before starting to cook sterilize your kitchen sponge +++(microwave it for three minutes), and wash hands.
the concept of supplementing the diet is excellent, but the pollution problem makes it prohibitive.
we are eager to believe the present is the best time that has ever been.
this is useful as an after shave lotion and general skin treatment.
if there is not sufficient acid, it will pass undigested into the  intestine, causing new problems.
6 cups rolled oats 1/2 cup raw wheat germ 1 cup sesame seeds 1 cup sunflower seeds (raw, unsalted) 1 tsp.
and i saw them take the fruit right from the refrigerator and spray it with a special wash "to get rid of any pesticides", then put a special detergent on it to clean off the wash!
citric (not ascorbic) acid crystals (see sources) in it.
do not use if allergic to iodine.
chlorinated water can cause mental symptoms.
1 nectarine or piece of melon.
some scientists think the true human life span  is closer to 140 years!
it would be wise to teach children the habits that maximize their immune  strength.
(this doesn't work  for all poisons.)
maybe  the last one to arrive takes over.
(those minute impurities, like lead, affect you, too.)
lesson four 471 preparing test  substances 472 impure test substances 472 making organ specimens 477 making a  complete set of tissue samples 478 purchasing a complete set of tissue samples  478 body fluid specimens 479 lesson five 481
they alone taste the bitterness of pit, a cyanide-related chemical,  and very difficult for the liver to metabolize.
it cannot return unless you infect yourself with the parasite again!
hands are second only to  the dish cloth in contamination level.
- don't use hair spray.
stop the barrage of chemicals that comes  with cold cereals, canned soup, grocery bread, instant cheese dishes,  artificially flavored gelatin, canned whipped cream, fancy yogurts and cookies  or chips.
try to do this with diet by  eating more potassium rich food and by conserving on potassium losses.
it is a matter of  digestibility and lack of toxicity.
they are already in us.
this gets them away from solvents, oxalic acid and caffeine.
it does away with filth - in an exquisite manner.
if the problem is leaking house gas, don't accept "we can't find a leak," implying there is none.
if you are using a slide specimen of cysticercus you can locate it in your body.
porcelain is not recommended.
(those same  "cold" symptoms can be caused by bacteria, for which i have  preliminary evidence of arriving in a similar fashion.)
it may be due to  ascaris, flukes, or other parasites.
another way to sterilize the sponge or cloth is to microwave it, after  wetting it, for 3 minutes.
don't use deodorant on weekends.
as the diabetes improves they crave it less.
your dentist may recommend crowning teeth to "protect" or strengthen them.
bacteria  and viruses from coughing and sneezing into your hands!
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++eat no meat that hasn't been  cooked as thoroughly as if it were pork.
it will  show you which symptoms came originally from your teeth.
back to normal body wisdom was not meant to substitute for parental teaching.
but modern plastic contains metal.
but what of the gasoline and motor fumes we are getting now due to parked vehicles?
clogged hearing aids are the most  troublesome feature of any of them-and never mentioned!
20 keep personal water bottles sterile.
ginger from the grocery store works fine; you may put it into capsules for yourself (size 0, 1 or 00).
soak the dentures in water for several hours.
your body can eliminate any virus in a short time, such as hours or days.
people are trying desperately to use less toxic products.
most of the drugs on the market can cure some symptoms in less  than one hour.
however most commercial  lugol's is polluted with isopropyl alcohol.
dentists routinely do not clean the socket of tissue remnants or infected bone.
be very careful to keep the herb tea sterile by reheating every  fourth day.
what a  relief for the bone marrow whose job it is to make red blood cells to have  enough vitamin b12 again!
the ca-125 or psa test will not drop to normal unless you begin to heal them.
a sign of too much  potassium is a slow pulse.
molds are not very choosy.
this  implicates the adrenal glands.
black walnut hull tincture (regular strength): 1 drop on the food.
this covers up small amounts of mold or "off" flavor.
if there is no attic, store them in the utility room.
to sterilize the sponge: drop it into a 50% solution of grain alcohol at the end of each day.
use  starch skin soother to dispense onto the wet paper towel, besides borax  solution and alcohol.
soak them in vitamin c water.
the spray accumulates in the eyes.
now you are getting lab-made (hydrogenated) grease with a non-biological structure, and loaded with the carcinogen nickel.
although municipal water tests occasionally  detect small amounts of propyl alcohol, benzene, or wood alcohol, i have never  detected them-you need not search for them.
this is  permanent and serious damage!
include lips if they need it.
limit bedtime supplements to magnesium,  ornithine, valerian (6 capsules) taken with hot milk.
elderberry tea mixed with  peppermint is cited in herbal textbooks and it could probably do a lot if it  weren't for the mold immunosuppression.
so the solution to good health is obvious: problem | simplest cure ----------+--------------------------------- parasites | electronic and herbal treatment pollution | avoidance
actually, they drew the cancer to the organ.
- baked or boiled potato (don't  eat skin) with olive oil and salt as described on page 310. -
don't  buy plastic-wrapped bread.
homemade soap, washing soda, pure borax figure 73.
you continually ate moldy food (chips,  nuts, etc.) which was toxic to the liver.
move to a simpler diet, cooked cereal with honey, cinnamon and whipping cream (only 4 ingredients), milk (boiled), bakery bread, canned tuna or salmon, plain cooked or fried potatoes with butter, and slices of raw vegetables and fruit without any sauces, except honey or homemade tomato sauce, to dip into.
forane is one of the new refrigerants.
44  mexican made candy with no benzene.
the promise 1 only two health problems 2 be a health detective 3 the discovery 5
when you get better on vacation, let that be your inspiration to move from  your home.
fresh chopped chives may  be added but no regular sour cream since this is very high in tyramine, a brain  toxin.
plastic has tiny pores  where bacteria can hide.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++most regular anemias, including low iron levels, +++are associated with hookworm infestations.
add 1/4 tsp. to a 1 pound package; knead until well mixed.
if it is used as an ingredient, it  is on the label, easy for you to avoid.
then you do 2 more days of 7 capsules each.
bleach can kill a lot, but it doesn't kill giardia spores and a lot of  types of fungus.
this is metal-free dentistry.
if you are ill, sit outdoors (on the porch) as much as you can.
on an empty stomach,  like before a meal.
keep food containers closed.
baked squash with butter, rice pudding with cinnamon, raisins, and honey.
making your own peanut butter is a great adventure (see the  recipes chapter).
with tablets, too, one  must be careful with dosages, while food is self limiting.
cough and sneeze into your own clothing; this protects the  cougher and sneezer, as well as everybody else.
it is made from white  unbleached flour and is not wrapped in plastic.
they are used to make the heart beat stronger, not to affect the rate of beating.)
they do not clean quite as well as modern detergents, but there is less static cling, eliminating the need to put more chemicals in your dryer.
don't have pets in the house or keep them on daily parasite  killing herbs.
that is why cancer is so  often seen with hiv/aids.
vitamin c powder into a glass of milk.
every 4 hours (or 6 capsules) for several days followed by a daily dose at bedtime.
as long as e. coli stays dutifully in your colon, no  adenovirus is seen.
as we wipe up droplets of milk, we give  the milk bacteria, salmonellas and shigellas, a new home to multiply and thrive  in.
what is making the heart so weak?
try stevia powder instead.
going slower: on the other hand, if you cringe at the thought of  taking an herb or you are anxious about it's safety, continue the drops,  increasing at your own pace, until you are ready to brave the decisive 2 tsp.
the new ones are very much superior to  those used 10 years ago and they will continue to improve.
don't put salt in cereal, cooking vegetables, or other dishes.
fumes travel upward where you live!
season with: 1 tsp. salt (aluminum-free), 1/4 tsp. paprika, 1/2 tsp.
this chapter is a tribute to jimmy, nazy, michele, suzanne, marlena and all the others who achieved excellence with daily care-taking of mary austin, deceased at 97.
as the diabetes improves they  crave it less.
potassium by prescription is often used by clinicians to conserve body potassium during diuretic use.
as soon as urine is flowing better, blood pressure may drop.
use 1 part of this concentrate with 9 parts water in a spray bottle.
a chelation doctor can easily see the state  of oxygenation.
if no capsules or tablets can be swallowed put a three day supply in a heavy plastic bag.
sebaceous cysts 188 skin rash 189 hives 191 acne 192 psoriasis, eczema 192 warts 195 tapeworm stages 197
of course, the milk must be sterile.
the food grade alcohols are grain alcohol and vodka.
if your elderly loved one can't eat all this, make sure there are no snacks consumed between meals that are forbidden.
if you try bran, you should add vitamin c and boil it, first, because it is very moldy.
they are free of molds and solvents.
when an elderly person has purpura or tia's and the mold source isn't obvious, you must track it down.
use a brush for eyelashes; use a finger for eyebrows.
the tapeworm stage beeps may disappear in a few days, too, presumably dead.
you need 3 cups of a milk product each day.
be present so the question does not turn into "will  smoking a few cigarets once in a while kill me?"
whether you have  killed bacteria permanently determines whether you have permanently cured the  condition.
shigellas arrive with dairy foods, too, but  prefer the lower intestine as their headquarters.
if they do, go back to the dentist!
kill  the parasite and you have stopped the cancer.
some people even lick their fingers when they're sticky or just to turn a page!
your genes have been reliable for millions of years.
stop the barrage of chemicals that comes with cold cereals, canned soup, grocery bread, instant cheese dishes, artificially flavored gelatin, canned whipped cream, fancy yogurts and cookies or chips.
this is a main  source of propyl alcohol.
you may keep your laundry supplies: borax, washing soda, white distilled vinegar, bleach and homemade soap.
you have something at stake too.
they hatch in the  stomach and go to the intestine to live.
figure 45: only unpolluted tea tree oil i found.
within minutes after that, the beeping of the tapeworm stage or mite is gone and adenovirus can be heard, loud and clear at 393 khz!
look at the label on the bottle in the picture.
their nesting place, though, will be under a missing tooth in the jaw (cavitation).
you may add borax and boric acid (to deter insects except ants).
meanwhile, the unwrapped lard should be warming up to room temperature in the plastic dishpan.
throw away your old toothbrush - solvents don't wash away. -
thyme, fenugreek or both (capsules are freshest) 1 tsp.
after mixing, store it in the original containers (re-label them) to prevent  caking.
you will be told that "noble" metals like gold and platinum and silver are ok, that they are "inert" and do not corrode or seep.
pump alcohol into one palm.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++cleanse your kidneys at least twice a year.
as a society, we should search for our lost longevity.
the mother may feel: "now, this breast milk is good for  you and drink it you must, or you shall go hungry."
but history can't be gathered and understood in less than 100 years.
59 dental replacements.
if you had the proverbial 3 wishes they would be: 1) please spare my  child's life; 2) please make it so my child doesn't have permanent damage; 3)  please bless and guide the wonderful doctors and nurses who are keeping the  oxygen tent going, and are watching my child's temperature and vital signs.
it must be at cooking temperature (212  degrees f or 100 degrees c) for 20 minutes.
see dental information in sources.
although toxic, at least i observe it in the liver directly, suggesting that your body is capable of handling it.
if you get  total relief at some point, stop.
if you don't have zinc oxide use plain cornstarch.
aflatoxin is the toxin in your diet that keeps you from clearing propyl alcohol from your body (see the "aflatoxin" section that begins on page 382)!
sixth take cascara sagrada capsules if constipated (start with one capsule a day, use up to maximum on label).
if you have a household pet, you will always be able to find a tapeworm stage in your sponge or in a dust sample you collect from the table or kitchen counter in the morning.
there are 2 extra rules that help eliminate benzene buildup: never eat moldy or grilled foods including popcorn, corn chips, grocery  store breads, pasta, nuts, alcoholic beverages, toast, brown rice (white is ok).
you can make a better lip soother by adding some lysine from a crushed tablet, vitamin c powder, and a vitamin e capsule to the alginate mix.
if switching to natural greases doesn't satisfy  your "fat-tooth", maybe its the potato in the french fries that your  body craves.
cavitations are visible in a panoramic x-ray that may not be seen in a full mouth series.
let sit for six hours.
use unbleached (unbrominated)  flour and add 1/2 tsp.
symptoms often come  back!
acid levels oxygen must first jump onto its raft, the hemoglobin, in the lungs.
how safe is the liver cleanse?
besides this take 1/8 tsp.
you may also drink a few mouthfuls of water afterwards or rinse your mouth.
don't take a chance  on over-medicating.
for each milk shake, blend or shake together: 1 glass of milk and 2 tablespoons maple syrup.
often the elderly prefer it this way in order not to  bother with pill taking at meal time.
we can see that chromium and nickel compounds are the most carcinogenic metals.
since it takes a frequency generator (3 minutes at each of 434, 432, 427, 425, 423, 421 khz) or zapper mere minutes to kill the fluke and its stages you will be stopping the production of growth factors immediately.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++yes, this "baby cold" will develop into a full blown cold if, +++but only if, you have a mold in you!
the potato appears on your plate the way it was  harvested.
humans leave enough dander behind in these places to support these ultra  small insects.
removing toxins which invite them into your organs is even more fundamental.
you may be familiar, but so very helpless against this  microscopic invader.
the heart and kidneys work together.
don't  force them to eat it.
let salt-hunger be your signal to do a kidney cleanse (page 549).
there are lots more remedies with fascinating symptoms to try to match with your own.
unless you use a syncrometer to test, you can not know.
get yours in bulk from an herb  company.
go total electric if possible.
stimulate many body tissues, raise blood pressure.
they wouldn't be there if pollutants weren't there.
to test the medicines and supplements put one of each in resealable  baggies.
the milk should be 2% or more butterfat because the calcium in milk cannot be absorbed without at least this much fat.
grains have a more tortuous history than potatoes that simply get sprayed.
you may throw away the skin.
that creates a terrible deficiency of oxygen.
parasites are doing abnormal things.
if you try bran, you should add vitamin c and boil it, first,  because it is very moldy.
if you notice an attack of dementia coming, try a niacin  tablet (100 mg, not timed release) immediately.
if you break this rule you could feel quite ill later.
don't seat an elderly person under a fan in restaurants.
peel carrots (don't scrape them, it's too easy to miss small dirt spots) and remove all blemishes carefully, then rinse.
55 potato harvest of the future.
the heart is made of four separate "chambers" or compartments  each pulsing in turn.
salmonella and shigella some salmonella infections can bring diziness to your elderly person.
take showers, not baths, if you are strong enough to stand.
powdered  vitamin c with each meal (500 mg).
yes, to  a considerable extent.
get orange blossom, linden blossom, buckwheat, wildflower, and sage honey, besides clover blossom.
brain problems include memory loss, communication deficit, dementia (calling things by inappropriate names and saying inappropriate things).
you may repeat cleanses at two week intervals.
although it can't be avoided it can be helped.
occasionally, thallium and germanium are found together in mercury amalgam tooth fillings.
notice how calming 6 drops of lugol's can be, soothing a manic stage and bringing a peaceful state where anxiety ruled before.
toasting bread in a frying pan or a stove top surface protects it too.
if you are a potato lover fix your own so you can peel them and remove any gray parts.
4 finished zapper, outside and inside.
cornstarch (see sources) vitamin e, 1 capsule 400 mg 1/4 tsp.
use food grade hydrogen peroxide or salt water to brush teeth in your mouth, never toothpaste.
families are related and their problems are related.
but only if you drink it as ozonated water.
with hearing aids that hear, and kidneys that flush and a heart that beats strongly, your elderly person may choose to attend concerts again, go to church or gatherings-and leave you out of the picture.
since your cells divide and therefore start again at age zero, even though  you are 90, why do you age at all?
sometimes they are not.
don't ask your loved one if they need a hearing aid.
leave  them sitting at the table a while, then walk a bit, to get the food down lower.
if you are ill,  move out of such a room.
in this case, filter it with a small all-carbon unit that is changed right on schedule.
they are not safe unless homemade.
pour the fluid mixture over the stack and zip.
when e. coli is the source of your adenovirus, a question pops up.
to the  store bought container you are consuming.
clinical doctors who have no time to really investigate the statistics of chelation treatments and for whom this is purely competition may feel antagonistic to these treatments.
your loved one will accept it and  drink it without forceful coaxing, if there is no problem with it.
but it was absent in fresh corn, canned corn, corn tortillas, and  white rice, making me wonder how it gets in our processed corn products.
should we go back to the old days and make their food for them?
if chili produces gas,  stay away from it.
it is not surprising they are getting cancer with increasing frequency, a situation where the liver can no longer detoxify isopropyl alcohol, a common pollutant in their food.
pop in at  mealtime to check up on it.
but if you look at the underside, the view is frightful.
make mashed potatoes from  scratch, with milk, not box potatoes, nor chips nor french fries.
serve au gratin potatoes or scalloped potatoes or any kind of potatoes that will be enjoyed.
expect diarrhea in the morning.
drying out the dish cloth helps kill many-but not all-pathogens.
much  living was done outdoors, the cleanest space of all.
the liver has a large lobe on your  right side with the gallbladder tucked inside.
but the kidneys may be doing a poor job because they are clogged with tiny crystals and because not enough water is drunk, so the body's acid levels rise.
either grind them yourself or see the sources chapter.
- the basement gets cleaned.
staphylococcus aureus is a bacterium hiding out in far away places like pockets left under teeth when they were extracted or along root canals.
gone are the fruit juices, flour mixes, crackers and sweets that fill grocery shelves.
fortunately for us, cancer is not like a fire, unstoppable once it has started.
bring hope to your family by proving diseases' true etiology.
the general rules apply to the extremely elderly: kill all parasites first by zapper if possible, otherwise by herbal parasite killing.
bring a commode near the bed for the night, rather than diapering your loved one (but don't call them diapers; say "underwear").
be advised that every person is unique and may respond differently to the treatments described in this book.
don't try to stretch a gigantic stretch to reach something on a  high shelf.
lesson fifteen 494 lesson sixteen 494 lesson seventeen 495 sensitivity of pollutant-in-product testing 497 microscopy lesson 498 taking pictures of what you see 501 using a frequency generator 502 the theory 502 lesson eighteen 504 lesson nineteen 505 lesson twenty 506 lesson twenty one 507 lesson twenty two 507 lesson twenty three 508 lesson twenty four 508 lesson twenty five 509 lesson twenty six 509 lesson twenty seven 509 lesson twenty eight 510 lesson twenty nine 510recipes 513 beverage recipes 513 lemonade 513 fresh tomato juice 513 fresh pineapple juice 514 maple milk shake
vegetable glycerin (see sources), 2 tbs.
breathing it is not so damaging.
they get propyl alcohol from their feed.
this little piece of contaminated cloth is the most infectious thing in  the house, besides the toilet.
what if this had no side effects?
start drinking water with lemon juice or vinegar and honey. - bacon.
after being off them for a while, they become more potent again.
do you have a garage that is a separate building from your home?
we must assist by throwing the pollutants out.
it can be used in the hot  milk or in other ways.
killing ascaris twice a week by zapping and taking b12 lozenges (see the sources chapter) is a better solution.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++note for diabetics: +++diabetics must not use artificial sweeteners.
there is no pain because the bile duct valves are open (thank you epsom salts!).
you could also feel a slight nausea for a few minutes.
excellent for stomach distress.
ask the clinical  doctor about it immediately.
if your aging friend or relative is in a home for the elderly, you may be  able to persuade him or her to choose a diet that is wiser than the average  diet people eat there.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++eat no meat that hasn't been cooked as thoroughly as if it were pork.
66 lawful uses of solvents in food.
a shawl, a lap-blanket, woolen sweater, long underwear and fleecy thermal outerwear help a lot.
especially if ethylene diamine tetra acetate (edta) is being used to remove heavy metals, it is important to take the treatment over a two hour time period.
the moisture acts to incubate mold  spores and overwhelms the inhibitor.
does this mean you can cancel your appointment with your clinical doctor?
whatever cancer they have will clear up by this change in diet and by giving them the pet parasite program.
put a large pinch into the palm of your hand.
how can you increase oxygen in the brain?
it makes no difference that the house dog is getting monthly preventive treatments for heartworm.
let the salesperson use his or her special talents to sell your loved  one on hearing aids.
did somebody bring a vase of fresh  flowers?
the bioradiation  spectrum 16 building a zapper 19 killing the surviving pathogens 20 zapper  parts list 21
every brand of popcorn and corn chips i tested had zearalenone contamination.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++throw these out even if propyl alcohol is not listed on the label!
cleansing the liver of gallstones dramatically improves digestion, which is the basis of your whole health.
as metal  corrodes your body absorbs it!
this reduces the body's oxygen supply and the disorder is called 'pernicious" anemia.
in animal experiments reported by scientists, toxicity from mold usually lasted three weeks.
the extra acid taken with lunch and supper (the stomach has its  own best supply of acid in the morning, for breakfast) improves overall  digestion and helps dissolve the calcium, magnesium, iron, zinc, manganese, and  other minerals in the food so they can be absorbed.
do not let them spray your room with anything.
feeling dizzy  can make your loved one home bound and stuck to a walker for every move.
everything has a unique frequency 8  selective electrocution 9 bioradiation 12 zapping bugs 13
mix equal parts whipping cream and milk or water.
and what is the effect on men and boys of  eating an estrogen-like mycotoxin in their daily diet?
the urine loses its awful odor (no  ammonia, acetone and bacteria!) and gets a clear look that shows no sediment.
digestive enzyme tablets have been in popular use to help  digestion.
chair and bed pads, too, are chemicalized.
but if salmonellas are entrenched here, too, the lower end does not have enough action to push the food through the valve.
the ada feels that mercury amalgam fillings are safe because they do not vaporize or form toxic compounds to a significant degree.
before brushing teeth, floss with 4 or 2 pound monofilament fish line.
don't save any leftover paints, solvents or cleaners.
pick out all dark colored,  shriveled bits.
you'd have to force yourself to eat grocery  bread (it's so doughy and sour smelling).
b12 is a  beautiful rose colored vitamin.
look for the green kind since this is proof that they are genuine gallstones, not food residue.
the living things are both large and small: from worms we can see, to microscopic bacteria, viruses and fungi.
constipation  increases the bacteria level which causes further constipation!
check  the pulse immediately.
with so many benzene-polluted items, there is hardly enough detoxification capability to get it all taken care of.
if potatoes  weren't heavily sprayed they'd be sprouting in the stores.
only metal-free plastic is safe.
it is very helpful not to eat the new infectious pathogen.
hulda regehr clark, ph.d., n.d. recipes in her book she states: copyright 1995 by hulda regehr clark, ph.d., n.d. all rights reserved.
and the  danger of freon escaping from a tiny leak is another major health hazard.
yes, to a considerable extent.
delivering poisonous house gas to our homes in pipes that are not fail-safe is an archaic practice.
fats maybe you like french fries because of the  fat.
it is not wise to take iron pills, even if they do raise hemoglobin levels, except in life-threatening situations.
sugar regulation is very complex, but these two approaches help most of the time.
our food manufacturers  have gone to great lengths to fool our native senses.
suppose you crave these items: - pickles.
it begins to plague women much earlier-after childbirth, for instance.
at first, tumors are benign - what a relief to find your tumor was benign.
these stresses and strains invite bacteria toward  themselves.
salt should you avoid salt?
in  spite of vacuuming every week, the filth accumulates.
70 good restaurant foods.
use the kidney herb recipe-but only half a dose (so it will take six weeks instead of three to see good effects).
- plastic for dentures: methyl methacrylate.
if it's nutritious, be thankful.
a sick person should not be in the house while house cleaning or floor waxing is being done.
the baby's liver, in its wisdom, does not want the baby to eat what it can't  properly digest.
aflatoxin is one of these.
thirty years after an extraction, a cavitation will still be there.
drink 6 kinds of beverages: this means getting off caffeine.
you are  picking up and removing highly infectious filth (ascaris and pinworm eggs, pet  parasites, "dander" and house mites).
salmonellas, along with shigellas, produce very toxic substances that  cause dizziness.
remember you can't see or smell molds when they begin.
vinegar (white distilled) or a tomato to the kettle to ensure some calcium leaches out of the bones.
make sure that nothing solid, like powder, is on your toothbrush; it will scour the enamel and give you sensitive teeth, especially as you get older and the enamel softens.
make your own preserves and baked goods, including breads.
absorption of fat and calcium depends on bile mixing with the food.
the whole world needs to come out of the dark  ages of medicine and illness.
your insomnia can be gone.
hawthorn berry is an herb that opens blood vessels, particularly to the heart.
don't cut tablets in half, the rough edges can scratch the throat.
for stronger flavor, leave some of the peel in the juice.
much is imported and can't be sufficiently regulated.
if switching to natural greases doesn't satisfy your "fat-tooth", maybe its the potato in the french fries that your body craves.
there are probably dozens of herbs that can dissolve kidney crystals and stones.
even though  electricity is based on other fuel consumption, you don't have to breathe those  fumes directly.
bread and milk rounds it out, plus fruit (not canned or frozen).
as cool as their body temperature and comfort  will allow.
if you can't find a safe model (see the sources chapter), or are unsure, don't use any.
the chance of a false positive or a false negative is about 5%, which can be lessened by test repetition.
did it happen long ago?
they are free to enjoy family and friends again.
some of them produce very, very toxic chemicals wherever they grow.
pure alcohol (never rubbing alcohol).
after cooling, pour into a small dispenser bottle.
shine, isn't  it a | isn't it a | sentence.
this gets them away from solvents,  oxalic acid and caffeine.
raise oxygen saturation of blood by keeping body acidity down.
fatal poisoning has been known to  occur.
if you don't tolerate milk, and get diarrhea from  it, try a milk digestant tablet to go with it.
does strongyloides host polio virus?
coughing during eating is a sign that  the diaphragm is irritated (by a hiatal hernia).
refrigerate the glass jar.
don't let grains mold on your shelves simply from aging.
store in glass containers same as described above.
the methods used to remove metals and infections are technical and  complicated.
add l/2 cup 95% alcohol to 1/2 cup cold tap water or buy plain vodka, 80 to 100  proof.
for this reason, it is important to have air conditioning during the hot  season.
if you do not, this soap may be too harsh for your skin.
they pass into the intestine, disturbing its function and acid levels.
they will leave the breast if you  clear them out of your mouth (and diet, body, home).
this lowers your immunity, allowing any adenovirus to invade your weakest tissues.
dairy products should contain at least 2% fat to enable you to absorb the calcium in them.
you can expect your allergies to disappear, too, more with each cleanse you do!
the idea is not to have partial jars, with a lot of air space, sitting for longer than a month or so.
you may top it up with lemonade.
killing ascaris twice a week by zapping and taking b12 lozenges  (see the sources chapter) is a better solution.
this time they do not balk at water consumption.
without mold and decay the streets of new york would still be full of horse manure from the days of the horse and buggy and our lakes too full of dead fish to swim in.
eating the dust off  the tables, inhaling the dust, and eating off surfaces wiped by the kitchen  sponge happens to everyone.
do a kidney cleanse (page 549) first, using half a dose  instead of the regular dose, for three to six weeks.
the source of loa loa seems to be tapeworm stages; this is  not a certainty.
time is the great inhibitor but if you have the means or the help, the  best advice, nutritionally, is a return to old-fashioned cooking and recipes.
the stool is recolonized in one to two days.
(this section on dentistry was contributed by frank jerome, dds.)
doomed are all salmonellas; doomed also are eggs of parasites that might be in the stomach (cysts).
if you have what to do ---------------
the good news is that our body can reclaim its sovereignty by throwing the rascals out.
enjoy each bit of progress; it is often too  subtle for your loved one to notice even when it is glaringly obvious to you.
starter set of homeopathic remedies.
always wash hands after petting an animal! -
add long rice grains to fight humidity.
some polluted  supplements.
strain these ingredients.
if you have taken a risk, zap yourself as soon as you get home to minimize the damage.
and  minutes later you may feel a stuffy nose, a slight congestion developing, a  certain head feeling that is different.
this is an important clue.
wash it the same way and keep  it in the cupboard.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++dr. clark: removing all metal means removing all root canals, metal fillings and crowns.
because not  everyone agrees on what is toxic at what level.
method of treatment
take  vitamin b2 immediately to help detoxify benzene (three 100 mg.
use 2 tsp. borax powder pre-dissolved in water.
store them in the garage, not the basement.
don't ever salvage moldy food, whether it is fruit, breads or leftovers in the refrigerator.
most dentists never look at a dental materials book after they graduate.
pour into glass jar and refrigerate.
it will do no good to keep zapping bacteria when reinfection is so easy.
bring respect back for your loyal genes that bring you hair color, and texture, not hair loss.
remove pulp with fork.
store potatoes out of the light, to slow down the greening process.
bad breath in the morning is due to such hidden tooth infections,  not a deficiency of mouthwash!
green beans are served  with a cheese sauce so a lot will be eaten.
but your closeness puts you at risk.
and by using a variety of antiseptics in these small amounts they can still meet sterility requirements.
----+--------------+----------------+-------------+---------------  week|teaspoons |drops on food, |open capsule,|open capsule, |on food |cats  twice per |put smallest |put smallest | |week, dogs daily|pinch on food|pinch  on food ----+--------------+----------------+-------------+--------------- 1 |  1 or more, | | | | based on size| | | 2 | 1 or more | 1 | | | | | | 3 | 1 or  more | 1 or more, | 1 | | | based on size | | 4 | 1 or more | 1 or more | 1 | 1  | | | | 5 | 1 or more | 1 or more | 1 | 1 | | | | | and so on | | | parasites gone, toxins next healing is automatic when you clean up your body tissues.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++vitamin c helps your body detoxify all the mold toxins +++i have tested, including aflatoxin.
figure 42: keep both salt and vitamin c powders in closable plastic shakers.
do not use  the hair drier they supply.
store in a small glass or plastic container in the refrigerator, tightly covered in a plastic bag.
add table scraps, dressed with a little butter, cheese or lard.
bake the strainer occasionally or put through the dishwasher to keep it sterile.
the responsible parasite is fasciolopsis buskii, the human intestinal  fluke, a flatworm.
add honey, and salt while it's cooking-this raises the boiling temperature and detoxifies more.
the lemon and honey habit, alone, can add years (healthier years) to an  elderly person.
warm it first; then stir in +++1/4 tsp.
sometimes i could zap it; sometimes it did no good.
a tall glass of iced tea could give you over 20 mg oxalic acid.
next comes  the more tedious task of finding their sources.
it takes pressure, namely strength, to push the blood through them so wastes and extra water can be let down the kidney tube.
- sugar coated  cereals.
unfortunately, many people are in a tight financial position because of the cost of years of ineffective treatment, trying to get well.
it can do everything, including baking the bread.
get a pure charcoal pencil (black only) at an art supply store.
green beans are served with a cheese sauce so a lot will be eaten.
bandwidth of organism families 562 mold, mold toxin frequencies 562 bacteria and viruses 563 roundworms, flatworms, one-celled animals 566 wart frequencies 569 tapeworms 569 mite frequencies 570 miscellaneous frequencies 571 toxic elements 571 solvents 574 pathogen frequency chart 576 sources 581finale 589 index 591 fig.
don't confuse these liver herbs with the next recipe for the liver cleanse.
a probable answer is that it is so weak that it has to beat faster to keep up with its job of circulating the blood.
they are  still a nutritious, vitamin c-rich food-provided you don't fry them in  benzene-polluted, hydrogenated grease!
this got  them away from accumulations of filth and rubbish in their living space.
books home the cure for all diseases hulda regehr clark, ph.d., n.d. dr. clark's follow-up to "the cure for all cancers" where she expands her natural treatment techniques to a cure all diseases.
this keeps out weevils too, so you won't have to put the box in the freezer later to kill them.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++be careful not to rave about  the foods that your loved one cannot eat.
near-boiling  is not hot enough.
canned salmon has a lot of calcium; tuna does not.
tia's are caused by spasming in the brain blood vessels.
if you have consumed alcohol, like a can of beer, nad enzymes must be shared between the alcohol in the beer and the benzene in the beer.
if you stand it on end in the sink it will partly  dry overnight.
weekly chelations can correct many problems of the elderly that no other treatment could.
nonwheat raisin bread  (from natural foods store) and butter.
repeat by drinking another 3/4 cup of epsom salts.
i have found all these solvents and others in commercial beverages!
start early in spring before they arrive, because it takes a few weeks to rid yourself of them once they are established.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++even (especially) when the strongest diuretics (maxzide(tm), lasix(tm))
in a pinch, buy gelatin capsules and empty them or empty other vitamin capsules.
sour cream has too much tyramine to be safe.
curing the common cold
it is like  having a pocket calculator with rundown batteries: it will give you wrong  answers (without telling you they are wrong).
eating is a fundamental pleasure of living.
anything that is put in the refrigerator or freezer and then taken out
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++don't eat food directly off the counter top or table top.
a large jar should be divided into smaller ones when you are ready to use it.
don't do new exercises, with a determined approach; start  moderately; stay moderate.
three safe flavorings.
hearing it from the  doctor is what's needed.
it should be kept in a closed  plastic bag in the garage.
old fashioned toasters had a layer of metal separating the bread from the wires.
buy a non-metal (bamboo is common) tea strainer.
you may then go back and complete  treatment over the next 6 to 12 months.
the list is endless and the situation looks hopeless because so many new  things can happen in two weeks.
the meat dish should be overdone.
in order to  stay sick, you must be constantly resupplied!
carpets clean our shoes.
remember that eating bacteria and killing them later will not solve the problem.
keep all of this up as a routine so that you need not fear your pets.
everything in the bathroom pollutes the air of the whole  house.
feces should not float.
ask your loved one to ask their doctor (clinical doctor or trusted medical advisor) the following question: "would it be better for my lungs to stop smoking?"
for instance chromium is an essential element of glucose tolerance factor, but most of its other compounds are extremely toxic.
gallstones are thought to be formed in the gallbladder, not the liver.
zap daily until you feel completely well: no night sweats, no coughing, no symptoms of any kind.
remove all soft spots.
the best salt is a mixture of 1 part of your aluminum-free, sterilized sea  salt and 1 part potassium chloride (another kind of salt, see sources).
you won't get many stones, and you will feel quite sick.
no need to do surgery!
it may take a day of standing to dissolve fully.
some people even lick  their fingers when they're sticky or just to turn a page!
don't provide wine or other alcoholic beverages; they are too  contaminated with ergot and aflatoxin.
diabetics, asthmatics, arthritics, especially, suffer from total body acidity.
"fast food" is plopped from the freezer into the boiling grease which browns the outside nicely but can easily leave the inside undercooked.
at one stage these worms are so tiny that they can slide through the smallest blood vessels.
another strategy is to use a fresh cloth or sponge  each day, putting the used one to dry until laundry day.
but happily, at your next doctor visits she or he will be removing drugs, not adding them.
there is no substitute for milk; calcium tablets are not satisfactory.
figure 88: make a bottle of borax liquid to fill your soap dispensers and shampoo bottle.
this is where carcinogens play a role.
if this system fails you are an easy target for any and all of these invaders.
after all, rabies virus comes to us from animals, and many  encephalitis viruses come from mosquitoes.
goods baked in a panaderia (mexican style bakery) never  tested positive to molds.
count for 30 beats at least.
and thank you to edna bernstein for her resourceful assistance.
bacteria from the liver or your own intestines find these strained tissues immediately and intensify the pain.
so with mold toxins present, adenovirus, fleeing the dead tapeworm stage, mite, or e. coli is not gobbled up.
to clean teeth, use plain water or chemically pure baking soda (see the sources chapter) but dissolve it in water first, otherwise it is too abrasive.
shake briefly and serve immediately.
the list is endless and the situation looks hopeless because so many new things can happen in two weeks.
overnight you may throw those pads away.
third, learn how to "jam" their frequency  until they expire: it takes only minutes!
perhaps you are "spoiled" now  by eating un-rotten food.
don't lick your fingers  to turn pages or open plastic bags.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ -  shampoo, even health brands - hair spray and mousse - cold cereals, even  "natural" granolas - cosmetics (make your own) - mouthwash -  decaffeinated coffee, postum(tm), herb tea blends (single herb teas are ok) -  vitamins, minerals and supplements (unless you test them) - bottled water,  distilled water, or spring water - rubbing alcohol - white sugar (brown is ok  if detoxified) - all shaving supplies including aftershave - carbonated  beverages - store-bought fruit juice, including health food brands tear out this page, put it on your refrigerator, and make a copy to stick  on your medicine cabinet.
keep out of sight and reach of children.
ultrapasteurization does not improve matters.
they  get propyl alcohol from their feed.
does this mean you can  cancel your appointment with your clinical doctor?
remember that you need to sweat!
over 100 consecutive case histories of cured cancer victims are the subject of another book (the cure for all cancers, by the same author, promotion publishing, 1993) along with more detailed instructions and suggestions.
the  worst parasite 33 pollution 36 solvent pollution 36 metal pollution 37  mycotoxins 38 physical toxins 38 how we really get sick 43 self health 46
in half an hour  it is overflowing with growth.
nothing could be more untrue.
benzene goes to the bone marrow where t-cells are made, and to the thymus where t-cells are programmed, two big blows to the immune system.
dunk your sponge and plop it onto the sink.
it is especially important though to rehydrate your elderly  person after a diarrhea.
keep some next to your refrigerator so it is handy when you put away groceries.
cottage cheese, cooked in covered skillet to sterilize.
floss and brush only once a day.
make your own ice cream and nut butters.
3 4 | 4 | 2 | 3, 3, 3 5 | 5 | 3 | 3, 3, 3 6 | 2 tsp. | 3 | 3, 3, 3 7 | now once a week | 4 | 3, 3, 3 8 | | 4 | 3, 3, 3 9 | | 5 | 3, 3, 3 10 | | 5 | 3, 3, 3 11 | | 6 | 3 12 | | 6 | now once a week 13 | 2 tsp. | 7 | 14 | | 7 | 15 | | 7 | 16 | | 7 | 17 | | now once a week | 18 | | | 3 at this point you do not need to keep a strict schedule, but instead may choose any day of the week to take all the parasite program ingredients.
day 6: take 2 tsp., all together in 1/4 cup water.
some notes on this recipe: this herbal tea, as well as the parsley, can easily spoil.
never again, cobalt and asbestos and freon.
this  covers up small amounts of mold or "off" flavor.
you could also use a capsule of activated charcoal.
acid was meant to be removed from the blood and loaded into the stomach at mealtime for digestion.
you continually ate moldy food (chips, nuts, etc.) which was toxic to the liver.
time is the great inhibitor but if you have the means or the help, the best advice, nutritionally, is a return to old-fashioned cooking and recipes.
21 cfr 178.1010 (4-1-94 edition)
but also  has added new hazards.
put portions in the freezer.
if the ones you buy are barely fragrant, they have lost their active ingredients; switch to a different supplier.
but then the bread is encased in plastic to hold  in moisture and keep it "fresh".
so the solution to good health is obvious: problem | simplest cure ----------+---------------------------------  parasites | electronic and herbal treatment pollution | avoidance
you can  make your own syrup, safely, with artificial flavor and turbinado sugar.
food fried in a skillet does not (even  if you burn it black!).
crusts of mold, sometimes  several feet thick, that form on top of grain bins can be simply shoveled away  before the inspector arrives.
easy lifestyle improvements none of us likes to change a habit.
only then can your  thymus and bone marrow recover.
try to get the first morning water before it has run.
being comfortable, knowing you are there to care for them, brings out the  best in your elderly person.
for exact amounts to use for dishwasher, dishes, windows, dusting, see the recipes chapter.
why don't you have a perpetual cold, since these bacteria are always in your colon... and should be!
the fresh lemon juice or white distilled vinegar and a honey dispenser that is easy to use should always be on the table.
the mother may feel: "now, this breast milk is good for you and drink it you must, or you shall go hungry."
adding lemon peel to the rinse also adds luster and ant deterrence.
after this, adenovirus appears and  again you are catching a cold.
notice what a strong line of inheritance there can be, not due to sharing genes but due to sharing a roof, a table, a supermarket, and a dentist!
but when the eggs hatch before they leave your  body and are allowed to continue their development inside you, the setting is  right for cancer to develop.
38 sea salt flats are often roosting places for sea gulls.
dr. clark: i'd like to thank dr. jerome for his contributions to this  section, and his pioneering work in metal-free dentistry.
unfortunately, the very concept of crowning teeth is flawed.
deep, soft, wall to wall carpets  compromise an ancient concept: everything should be washable and cleanable,  without throwing the dirt into the air for humans to inhale.
41 u.s. regulations on sterilizing solutions.
in old age there is no other pleasure that can equal enjoyment of food.
use white, unfragranced towels that are strong enough to hold up for this use.
remember, all honey must be pretreated with vitamin c. all fruit is peeled  and free of blemishes and soft spots.
when this isn't happening, it was meant to be shipped  out of the body with the urine.
if  you have an illness wear a mask to vacuum.
if you use a metal knife, rinse the fruit lightly afterwards.
scrub hard with a stiff bristled brush.
the first one should be in the morning.
an inexpensive pure carbon filter that is replaced every month may improve your tap water.
sanitizing  solutions may be safely used on food-processing equipment and utensils, and on  other food-contact articles as specified in this section, within the following  prescribed conditions: (a) such sanitizing solutions are used, followed by  adequate draining, before contact with food.
figure 56 smooth floors allow every bit of dust to be removed.
making your own peanut butter is a great adventure (see the recipes chapter).
preparing test substances 472 impure test substances 472 making organ specimens 477 making a complete set of tissue samples 478 purchasing a complete set of tissue samples 478 body fluid specimens 479 lesson five 481
but what if they like and prefer their  monolithic "scientific", "complete", polluted diet?
thallium pollution frightens me more than lead, cadmium and mercury  combined, because it is completely unsuspected.
possibly, it is too faint; it must multiply and create  a loud chorus before you can hear it.
campylobacter and e. coli, other digestive bacteria, are sometimes the  culprits.
lock the  door and cover it with plastic.
only then can your thymus and bone marrow recover.
take no medicines, vitamins or pills that you can do without; they could prevent success.
apply after washing dishes and after showering.
if you can do both, you may be able to see which organ allows the virus to replicate after it emerges.
he was patient, kind, helpful and willing to share his expertise in electronics and computers.
the cysts shrink and are  simply gone.
another note: the citric acid kills bacteria, while the carbonation brings relief.
the cloth or sponge recolonizes the kitchen and dining room table several times a day.
but if you stop immediately and eat only perfectly  safe food, your illness will be over in the shortest time.
without mold and  decay the streets of new york would still be full of horse manure from the days  of the horse and buggy and our lakes too full of dead fish to swim in.
don't use her copper-bottomed tea kettle or gold-rimmed cups or "silver".
31 emerged cysticercus.
the stench of the infection under some teeth may be overwhelming as they are pulled.
you can have all these killed in a day, without side effects and your heart is once more free to beat regularly.
don't buy potatoes that show a tint of green on  them (the green color is due to scopolamine; it is toxic).
kill salmonellas daily for a month by taking lugol's iodine (6 drops in a  half cup water, after meals and bedtime, see recipes).
remember, they also have a diuretic effect.
pop in at mealtime to check up on it.
many elderly persons have a mcv over 100!
are evolutionary forces at work preventing this?
if you sterilize it in the morning you may take it to work without refrigerating it (use a glass container).
whether you  have +++a rhabdomyosarcoma or a mesothelioma or melanoma, +++you can cure it  quickly, never to return.
by craving pure starches, your body could be telling you about a need to improve your digestion (liver disorders) or to eat and breathe less toxic things.
some of these  displace oxygen, some are simply toxic to the body and lungs.
citric acid borax does the cleaning; alcohol disinfects, boric acid leaves a pesticide residue, and the vinegar or citric acid give luster.
freon is thought to be responsible for the ozone "hole" at the south pole.
- the garage gets cleaned.
don't forget advertising is aimed at you, even if other people's eyes are not!
once the patient begins to feel well they take it for granted, and don't make the connection, either.
broccoli and onions may burn  the tongue with its sulfur-containing acids.
pour some into a small bottle to use as lip soother.
when the gallbladder is scanned or x-rayed nothing is seen.
they go right to the gateways of your cells and evict the tiny parasite, bacteria or virus stuck to the latch and trying to get in.
cover mattresses with plastic covers.
beet root powder in a saucer.
but unless all these things are tried, don't raise the temperature.
in the past, when the nutrient properties of molasses were discovered, the molasses manufacturing was a small, carefully conducted business.
herpes zoster (the shingles/chicken pox virus) is known to hide in nerve cells.
meringue pie figure 70.
you wouldn't expect even a gold or silver coin that was dropped in a fountain 50 years ago to be intact.
as soon as they are dead, molding begins.
eat less of these, and increase your milk (2%), fruits and vegetables.
presently it is allowed in the united states code of federal regulations (cfr)  (see page 428)!
don't do exercises, that have left you with strains in the. past.
all disposable diapers i tested had mercury and  thallium!
dr. jerome: these are the acceptable plastics; they can be procured at any  dental lab.
several common mold toxins inhibit the immune system, too, specifically those white blood cells that are supposed to eat and destroy viruses.
the extra acid taken with lunch and supper (the stomach has its own best supply of acid in the morning, for breakfast) improves overall digestion and helps dissolve the calcium, magnesium, iron, zinc, manganese, and other minerals in the food so they can be absorbed.
the reason dentists do not see toxic results is that they do not look or ask.
pour 3 cups of very cold water (refrigerate water overnight first) into the 2-quart saucepan.
"the cure for all diseases" hulda regehr clark, ph.d., n.d. recipes
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++even (especially) when the  strongest diuretics (maxzide(tm), lasix(tm))
we add dust, picking up parasite eggs and stages.
make  sure extractions heal and don't leave permanent cavitations where bacteria can  live.
this is permanent and serious damage!
cysts are so tough not even bleach  kills them.
(salt has aluminum in it to keep it from caking.
don't  let grains mold on your shelves simply from aging.
it does not have to be added to the milk; it can simply be included with  the meal somewhere.
you may need to use a brush on areas with dirt.
this little piece of contaminated cloth is the most infectious thing in the house, besides the toilet.
in general, xenobiotic compounds (foreign) are to be avoided!
then add only 1/4 cup milk to the day's diet, (in the morning, on  homemade cereal).
another easy way is to use a pressure cooker that holds several pint jars of milk.
for bathroom use, dampen a roll of paper towels under the cold tap first.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ when the body can no longer detoxify benzene it soon may not be able to detoxify propyl alcohol.
how can  you be there if you have a job or are attending a family's needs?
i have tried heat and vitamin c, which is also a  reducing agent.
if your house has copper pipes don't wait for cancer or schizophrenia to claim a family member.
eventually  they also become infected when metastasis sets in.
use a bit of onion and genuine herbs to give it zest.
any library would have more information.
because strong hcl would dissolve teeth it is not available as a solution  to aid digestion.
the strategy is to control their numbers.
(some people have stated that citric acid makes their hair curlier or reddens it.
similarly, you can search for the mites in your house dust.
effects are cumulative and with continuous exposure toxicity occurs at much lower levels.
(it's  what you're saying that's wrong!)
yet another method is to buy vodka that is 100 proof (50% alcohol) and mix one part vodka with four parts water.
simply sending inspectors out to look  into the bins at grain elevators is not sufficient.
in fact, you can clear  it up in less time than it takes to get a doctor's appointment for a check up.
stay with a walker as long as possible.
use throws on easy chairs and sofas and wash them often.
after day 10: take 3 capsules all together once a week forever as in the maintenance parasite program.
water pitcher with filter.
or your child plays with the same toys as sick children?
but eating the pathogen is 100% effective in  infecting us.
if you are tracking  adenovirus using the electronic techniques in this book, you will see that it  infects you immediately after eating coughed-on food.
if the elderly person is not producing four cups of urine in a day (24 hours), it is not enough.
(don't use up any of the polluted pills or supplements.)
if you wish to use fresh fruit, bring it to a boil to sterilize.
whatever amount is eaten is  satisfactory.
honey is probably the best way to stimulate both thirst  and appetite.
then add only 1/4 cup milk to the day's diet, (in the morning, on homemade cereal).
in  the world 28 using the simplest zapper 30 parasites & pollution 31
i suppose it acts a lot like the bisulfite, chemically destroying the mold toxin molecules.
to smooth them out you simply slow them down.
perhaps it is not possible to bake 24 hours a day in the same building, year after year, without bits of flour and moisture accumulating in the millions of tiny cracks and crevices that all buildings have and germinating mold.
i was hot on the heels of adenovirus wherever it might  be in my body.
pink dentures change to clear plastic porcelain denture teeth change to plastic denture teeth
avoid those with raw eggs or processed foods as ingredients.
beverages drink 6 kinds of beverages: milk
of course, the mold is "bad, bad,  bad."
never drink water that has been run through a water softener or copper plumbing or has traveled through a long plastic hose.
if you have none  of these, perhaps because you live in a senior citizen community or  condominium, don't keep any toxic things stored anywhere.
put it in everything possible, from cereal  to soup to rice (1/8 tsp. is enough).
incontinence plagues most elderly persons.
use a polyethylene (opaque) water jug from a grocery store to transport it.
498 fig. 85 setup for finding resonant frequencies.
old literature advises that potatoes should be  harvested by moonlight so the green drug isn't produced in the white varieties.
never drink water from a glass that has "stood  out" all day.
also, one would not use anything medicinal, including lugol's unless there were a need, like cancer, aids, or bowel disease.
salt your own butter, using aluminum-free  salt.
[then in paragraph (c)(19) the exact concentration of the iodine is specified.
look at the underside.
it manages for 2 to 3 weeks; then a portion of it succumbs.
(the title is carcinogenicity and metal ions.
and ringing 169 scalp  pain 171 non-painful diseases 173 diabetes 173 prediabetic 178 diabetes of  childhood 178 herpes 179 fatigue 182 skin problems 188
herb companies are not the same!
the lemon and honey habit, alone, can add years (healthier years) to an elderly person.
don't switch to decafs because this introduces solvents and new problems.
plus a regular cleaning service.
drink 1/4 cup when cool enough.
the gallbladder is attached to the common bile duct and acts as a storage reservoir.
wash them off only with cold tap water, not commercial food "wash".
potassium ousts sodium (salt) from your body, so you can use twice as much of this kind of salt!
hiv and aids disease are very similar to cancer.
in the dishwasher 527
all u.s. brands of pasta i tested had mold, including health food  brands like the one shown here (left).
perhaps you have pancreatic flukes upsetting your sugar regulation.
kill the bacteria with a zapper, cleanse the liver, and start the bowel program if this has already happened to you.
the skin is more absorbent than we realize, and time and time again i see cancer victims who have gone off every body product except their favorite shampoo.
2 selected pathogen bandwidths.
read old recipe books for the fun and savings of making your own nutritious food.
notice what a strong line of inheritance there can be, not due to sharing  genes but due to sharing a roof, a table, a supermarket, and a dentist!
but even eating tree branches for supper won't move a bowel that has the wrong bacteria in it.
so they just can't go about eating viruses.
cream of rice, with homemade "half n half" or whipping cream,  cinnamon and vitamin c stirred in.
don't let food get more than a day old in the dishes.
vacuuming a carpet  blasts mites and tape eggs into the air.
use genuine butter, only, or a homemade sour cream dressing (see recipes).
go immediately for the morning walk.
what does ascaris do with your b12?
many diabetics lose 50 points (mg/dl) of blood sugar in a few days on this diet.
when blood is properly oxygenated it takes on a bright red color,  unoxygenated blood is more purple.
fold each piece in quarters again and stack in a plastic zippered baggy.
don't try, with almighty determination to open a jar.
but we have never cluttered the planet yet.
molds and bacteria that grow right on the air conditioning unit  get blown about for all to inhale.
just decades ago lead was commonly found in paint, and until recently in gasoline.
use boric acid to leave a residue that kills roaches and fleas (but not ants).
+++if it makes mucous, you already have a chronic respiratory infection.
even if you have dry skin, difficult hair or some other unique requirement, just pure borax will satisfy these needs.
your loved one  isn't hungry enough.
it can be taken straight from the freezer, rinsed, and placed in 1/4 inch of milk (unboiled is fine) in the frying pan.
all the ester-c(tm) varieties of vitamin c that i have tested are polluted with thulium!
they can be started anytime but the most effective time is before your next calculated period time (count days as if you never missed a period).
then use homemade bar soap.
let stand for 5  minutes.
but arrange for immediate privacy when you return.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++zap yourself every day for three seven minute periods, +++until after you are completely well.
sterilize it once a week by putting a  cup of water and one tbs.
use borax instead of detergent.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++important note: do not use bottled or purchased water to +++make this tincture or you could pollute it with benzene !
give yourself the reward of knowing you shared the pain, fear and silent cry for help.
mites are too tiny to see, tiny enough to ride on a dust particle as if it  were a magic carpet.
boric acid powder (not borax).
never purchase hydrogen peroxide in a bottle with a metal cap.
be careful to keep all alcohol out of sight of  children; don't rely on discipline for this.
whatever cancer they have will clear up by this change in diet and by  giving them the pet parasite program.
peel and core carefully.
for dessert, fresh fruit chunks dipped in a homemade honey sauce (honey,  water and cinnamon).
wood stoves can be made safe by making sure the chimney works properly.
don't ever purchase something you believe is  detrimental to your elderly person.
if you are trying to do all this in a  nursing home, feed it to your loved one while visiting.
whereas grain was hulled, stored for quite a long time, perhaps degerminated (the bran and germ picks up mold the fastest).
killing the  dog's parasites twice a week with a zapper would be very helpful to you.
when into and out of the bathroom is a different performance suspect chlorine.
dissolve phosphate crystals with the kidney herb recipe.
not a single disease is left unconquerable with this new understanding!
there is no need to add so much it affects  the flavor.
soup, sandwich, fruit, hot milk, water.
one half cup  milk, one half glass water with honey and vinegar.
even after cooking, it may be toxic.
cats and dogs are both meat  eaters.
it could have happened as long as two weeks ago but not longer!
use non-metal jewelry.
sebaceous cysts 188 skin  rash 189 hives 191 acne 192 psoriasis, eczema 192 warts 195 tapeworm stages 197  the flu 201 fever 203 multiple sclerosis & amyotropic lateral sclerosis 204  high blood pressure 210 glaucoma 213 tooth decay 214 muscle diseases 218  muscular dystrophy 219 myasthenia gravis 221 universal allergies 222  environmental illness 223 alcoholism 227 seizures 230 weight problems 237 sleep  problems 241 sleep apnea 241 insomnia 243 yeast infections 246 diaper rash 246  treat yeast or fungus the same 247 fluke disease 249 flukes and solvents 251  flukes not alone 252
the key to cholesterol control is not fat avoidance,  but a liver cleanse!
this gives the water a "sweet and sour"  flavor, enough to make it interesting throughout the meal.
it  could have happened as long as two weeks ago but not longer!
share the joy of getting gallstones out painlessly with your loved one; let them see and count them if they wish before you flush them (use a flashlight).
make sure extractions heal and don't leave permanent cavitations where bacteria can live.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++cleanse your liver twice a year.
part of the human tragedy is war.
cut away all the eyes.
you may take these at different times in the day or  together: black walnut hull tincture extra strength: 2 tsp.
34 alcoholic beverages  contain ergot and aflatoxin.
it also helps retard mold, and perhaps even destroys aflatoxins!
but it doesn't last long.
when you kill bacteria (and schistosomes and ascaris and other parasites that bring in bacteria) and blood potassium levels go up, the problem is solved.
make the base first by heating these together in a covered, non-metal pan until completely dissolved.
try to keep perfectly still for at least 20 minutes.
have no refrigerator, air conditioner, clothes dryer,  hair dryer, new clothing, detergent.
if the dentist says that he or she can change your metal fillings to plastic but it would be better to crown them, say "no!"
i have not tested patulin to see if it can be detoxified by vitamin c. we must use only white distilled vinegar, even though it lacks potassium, aroma and popularity.
brown sugar had sorghum mold.
humankind has been eating these natural fats long before cholesterol was vilified.
everything that is put on skin penetrates.
we think such an arrangement with its penetrating odors is unsavory.
the time delay is a time of lowered immunity and facilitates a growth spurt for parasites and pathogens.
the general moisture in the kitchen is enough for them to survive.
day 1: (this is the day you begin; start the same day you receive it) take one drop.
fatal poisoning has been known to occur.
nad enzymes (the n stands for niacin) come into play too.
" dr. hulda regehr  clark the cure for all cancers hulda regehr clark, ph.d.,n.d. dr. clark claims that all cancers are caused by a single common  parasite.
use a shaker with a lid that closes.
yes, if used in baked dishes.
(the  correct answer is yes.
get rid of toxic body products and house pollutants.
don't switch to decafs because this introduces solvents and new  problems.
as you see your symptoms disappear, one after another, you will feel the magic of healing.
or try our recipe which uses a blender.
good restaurant foods.
be careful not to use rubbing alcohol when making the finger stick (use vodka or grain alcohol).
your regular oven is thermostated so that it cannot go higher than it states.
liver cleanses are  completely safe, even for persons in their 80's.
this is why: there is less bread than a diabetic would prefer.
| don't let this ruin your relationship.
16 hookworms, strongyles, and whipworms.
and most of the time the cold will reappear a few hours later.
clean up the thyroid by doing dental work and liver cleanses.
again,  you will not find adenovirus beeping its characteristic frequency out of your  mite specimen.
baking soda (chemically pure only, see sources) and shake a few times, keeping the lid tight.
in old age there is no other  pleasure that can equal enjoyment of food.
refrigerate what you will use in two days and freeze the rest.
find a dentist with experience  and knowledge about this subject.
while living things are alive, the mold attackers can be held at bay.
be very careful to keep the herbal tea sterile by reheating.
immunity to all the diseases that lurk at very low level in our bodies.
chlorinated water can cause  mental symptoms.
all the water you use after this surge is now polluted, so you will be getting it chronically, whereas the unfiltered water cleans up again after the surge passes.
although laws regulate the amount of ergot allowed in foods (canada allows one ergot grain per 300 grains of #3 or #4 wheat), this is not enough protection.
kill parasites, avoid wood alcohol, use chromium tablets and a lot of cinnamon.
charcoal pencils are cheap.
chili or stew leftovers with wheat free, corn free bread.
this can result in an aversion to meat.
you may have adenoviruses quietly  slipping into your blood stream and tissues from a tapeworm stage or mite you  inhaled, or e. coli bacteria that strayed into your tissues, and which is being  slowly killed by your immune system.
63 beautiful plastic mouth.
mold avoidance we should be much more  critical of our food.
give yourself good grades for this achievement.
stay with a cane as long as  possible.
removing toxins from the affected organs lets them heal.
(if you are over 150 pounds, take 2 1/2 tsp.
don't buy sorghum syrup.
removing all the borax is what brings luster to  the carpet.
kidneys are made of tubes that get finer and finer.
the  two likely sources for the mold spores are: in the flour to begin with, or just  flying about the bakery and landing on the newly baked loaves.
but if you don't kill them, as in cold water washes, you are mixing the yeast, parasite eggs, bacterial spores, and fungus from underwear with all the other clothing you and your family wear.
remember your new refrigerator will still be using a toxic coolant, and it would be best to keep it outside or at least vented to the outside.
use +++simple recipes from old cook books.
dr. jerome: the philosophy of dental treatment taught in america is that  teeth are to be saved by whatever means available, using the strongest, most  long lasting materials.
all u.s. brands of pasta i tested had mold, including health food brands like the one shown here (left).
permission is hereby granted to make copies of any part of this document for non-commercial purposes provided this page with the original copyright notice is included.
the gas is toxic and a small amount can't be smelled.
always peel potatoes, apples, and carrots.
walk in the fresh air or simply rest until it passes.
some scientists think the true human life span is closer to 140 years!
after using the bathroom  and washing your hands, treat your fingernails with alcohol.
to test the air, take a dust sample off the kitchen counter or table (this gives you fresh dust).
fiberglass or asbestos is present in about 25% of the cancer victims that  i see.
there should be no acidity in the lungs so oxygen can attach here.
but if you stop immediately and eat only perfectly safe food, your illness will be over in the shortest time.
this brings relief to the heart because its work is easier.
urine  that should have left the body is backed up in the tissues.
if you are very ill or chronically ill you must have asked yourself many  times: why have these problems chosen me?
lesson six 482 lesson seven 484 testing the air 485 testing someone else 486 lesson eight 486 saliva testing 487
31  emerged cysticercus.
herb tea: fresh or bulk packaged.
you'll retreat from deep fat fried foods: the dripping grease will just undo the appetite.
their equipment is better.
sensitivity 143 breast lumps 144 heart pain 146 slow pulse/syncope (passing  out) 149 chest pain 149 upper back pain 150 shoulder pain 151 upper arm pain  153 elbow pain 154 wrist pain 154 thumb pain and hand pain 155 finger pain 155  back of neck pain 156 front neck pain 156 temporal mandibular joint (tmj)
cobalt, which adds "lustre" to carpets,  causes skin and heart disease after it has built up in your organs.
- a child wants to eat only  sweets, everything else must be coaxed down.
a single surge of pcb contaminates your filter.
do a kidney cleanse (page 549) first, using half a dose instead of the regular dose, for three to six weeks.
and read the sections in this book on pulse (page 289) and brain problems (page 278) very closely for more things to check.
use throws on easy chairs  and sofas and wash them often.
porcelain is aluminum oxide with other metals  added to get different colors (shades).
i only see ebv if the person  also has eurytrema (pancreatic fluke) in the pancreas.
it does not matter what kind of fuel is used, the benzopyrenes develop due  to lack of shielding between the food and heat source.
do a general body and environment cleanup.
caffeine speeds up the heart, then the overworked heart has to "take time out" for itself by missing a beat.
i have found ergot and  aflatoxin in beer and wine!
packaged herb tea is moldy and polluted with solvents.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ in cases of parkinson's disease i often find the bacterium clostridium  tetani, well known for causing stiffness.
use grain alcohol rinse in the bathroom to kill ascaris and hookworm eggs under fingernails.
use 70% grain alcohol which you make yourself or plain vodka which is about 50% alcohol.
don't feed pets at the table, keep them outdoors during mealtime.
these holes are constantly  being adjusted by the adrenals which sit right on top of the kidneys and  "supervise".
if the problem is auto exhaust, don't accept "but we have to use the kitchen door to the garage, because it's cold outside".
with the food bacteria, salmonellas and shigella, out of the  way and parasites being killed regularly, you can focus attention on the  adrenals which control potassium levels.
canned meat is safe from parasites but may have smoke flavoring added (contains benzopy rene) or nitrates.
adding lemon or vinegar (white  distilled) and 1 tsp.
this would soon be cost  effective, too, in terms of reduced spoilage losses and higher quality prices  earned.
there is a  large amount of nickel in hydrogenated fats.
add vitamin c (1/8 tsp.) upon opening and wait 10 minutes for it to act.
these heart parasites may not cause any pains, yet disturb the rhythm or the pulse of the heart and cause it to enlarge.
add more borax when the undissolved granules get low.
- fresh green vegetables, in  perfect condition.
don't allow ice cubes, however, nor  beverage making, with the essential water.
i remember our parents  spraying for them (kerosene) in the bedroom.
let over-compliance enthuse you.
sometimes a new symptom appears as fast as an old one disappears.
but if you do have a mold toxin  in you, the virus spreads, multiplies and gives you a cold!
you can move all the basement chemicals into this garage.
if no other natural beverages appeal, serve hot water with cream and cinnamon.
don't take this potion before 6:00 am.
strain and drink as directed.
it makes no difference that the house dog is getting  monthly preventive treatments for heartworm.
this is a month's supply.
the dust raised and distributed throughout the house isn't just dirt, it's infectious dirt.
the answer may be  "i'm not deaf".
often, just plain cornstarch is enough!
fortunately for us, cancer is not like a fire, unstoppable once it has  started.
even more importantly, the glass jars or bottles you use to store your tincture should have as little air space as possible, without touching the plastic wrap on top.
this suggests that the virus comes from the fluke.
if you are short on both, it will turn your muscles into  sugar.
whether you have +++a rhabdomyosarcoma or a mesothelioma or melanoma, +++you can cure it quickly, never to return.
buy a 1 cup spray bottle.
65 unpolluted breakfast cereals.
they dwell on dying, though, because they know it isn't far away and wonder what to do about it.
never use margarine, crisco(tm) or other hydrogenated fats.
sometimes i could zap it; sometimes it did no  good.
don't do new exercises, with a determined approach; start moderately; stay moderate.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++the pulse should be around 70 beats per minute and perfectly regular.
it may need to harden for a week.
here is some good news for cooks: if you bake it yourself, adding a bit of vitamin c to the dough, your breads will be mold free for an extended period (and rise higher).
primitive peoples were mobile.
above all use no metal.
a young athlete may have a slow pulse legitimately, due to having a very strong  efficient heart, but your elderly person does not fit this category.
drugs like  reglan(tm) are given to speed this up.
but perhaps this  must await the age of robots.
this system no longer  works.
dunk your sponge  and plop it onto the sink.
1/2 cup olive oil 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice or white distilled vinegar 1 tsp.
all these are very harmful.
eating fish can give you a lot of calcium, but it is  in the tiny bones hidden in the fish.
if you don't tolerate milk, and get diarrhea from it, try a milk digestant tablet to go with it.
cooking oil and shortening (use only olive oil, butter and lard) - bottled water, whether distilled, spring, mineral, or name brand.
serve with cinnamon, whipping cream and honey.
molds must have a degree of moisture.
after-effects also let you know that you did indeed kill something.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ don't let yourself eat junk food just because your body craves something in it.
take the pulse daily when  a new drug has been added, or when you are working on heart health, without  getting your loved one anxious about it.
" dr. hulda regehr clark the cure for all cancers hulda regehr clark, ph.d.,n.d. dr. clark claims that all cancers are caused by a single common parasite.
ergot can make you super  religious, hearing voices of command or threat.
again, remember that we are all different  and any new treatment should be applied in a cautious, common sense fashion.
week 2: parsley water and black  walnut.
if you get a hefty dose of mold at the outset of your cold, the toxicity lasts quite a long time.
if constipation is a problem, use an herbal product rather than a drug  until you have removed the cause.
put up a separate shed for these items.
the heart is made of four separate "chambers" or compartments each pulsing in turn.
add vitamin c and lysine first and then everything else.
stir until smooth, refrigerate 2 hours.
i like +++to think i have perfected this recipe, but i certainly can not take +++credit for its origin.
cascara sagrada (half dosage) or prunes work  for many people.
keep the jar tightly closed and out of the reach of children.
"zear" is the mycotoxin that prevents you from detoxifying  benzene.
if more bread is requested, provide a wheat-free, corn-free variety; but limit bread eating to "after main dish" eating.
as we wipe up droplets of milk, we give the milk bacteria, salmonellas and shigellas, a new home to multiply and thrive in.
kill them,  routinely, after eating such food due to necessity.
the bowel program is effective against these also.
if you have many crowns, you should have them all removed as quickly as possible.
yes, but not"imitation", cholesterol-free or cholesteroi-reduced varieties.
calcium  losses increase in old age.
toxic solvents like decane, hexane, carbon tetrachloride and benzene will get more flavor or fat or cholesterol out of things than metabolizable grain alcohol.
not so  for other sugars.
after all, your demise is their demise.)
the fresh lemon  juice or white distilled vinegar and a honey dispenser that is easy to use  should always be on the table.
you may feel a train of stones traveling along the bile ducts like marbles.
nothing  controls fleas reliably, except getting rid of the carpets and cloth furniture  (keep pets out of bedrooms).
different homeopathic remedies go to different tissues, so you can only clear one tissue at a time.
custard pudding  sweetened with honey, and nutmeg/cinnamon mix.
it is in the public interest to know when a single bottle of a single  product tests positive to a serious pollutant.
vitamin c (ascorbic acid) (you may crush tablets) 1/4 tsp.
the dust in the kitchen falls on open food and into open containers.
these smaller rugs should be  laundered weekly.
this need not be stopped (if the pills are  not polluted) although taking potassium pills is less useful than salting it in  because the adrenals will let any big dose escape anyway.
start with only 1/4 cup at a time.
leave it for  stronger hands.
also ask them how and when they clean their tank.
we have  been taught to cook thoroughly any pork, fish or seafood.
get your epsom salts ready.
major effects are on the nervous system, skin and cardiovascular tract.
vitamin b2 (riboflavin).
if frying or cooking with fat, use only olive oil, butter or lard (the bht and bha preservatives in lard are ok except for seizure sufferers).
then your personal help.
sterilize fingernails with grain alcohol to prevent reinfection.
you don't need to know their hosts in order to stop hosting them yourself.
once the body, even an aged body, finds a nutritious food that does not  cause troubles of its own, it asks for more.
the treatments outlined herein are not intended to be a replacement or substitute for other forms of conventional medical treatment.
our lives are all  foreshortened, much like the life of a domestic steer's.
easier way: use any bottle, pour borax powder to a depth of a 1/2 inch or so.
4 finished zapper, outside and  inside.
cure yourself of retinitis pigmentosa, muscular dystrophy (the "inherited" kind), and break down your family's faith in the gene-concept for these diseases.
continue on the maintenance parasite program, indefinitely, to prevent future reinfection.
everything tarnishes and everything seeps.
would getting away from fossil fuel be a  big answer?
use washing soda and borax in  the wash cycle.
your heart may go out to those tiny white blood cells.
you can prove this by providing oxygen from a tank; modern equipment is very easy to use and inexpensive.
notice whether your elderly person goes into the bathroom in fair shape mentally but comes out confused, unreasonable.
a speck in the batter gets noticed.
this includes colognes, scented tissues, soap and shampoo and shaving supplies.
i consider these to be our most serious threat.
don't bend over as far as you can to pick something up.
zap flukes and eliminate wood alcohol as described in the section on diabetes (page 173).
peel them to get rid of kojic acid (mycotoxin) and scopolamine (the green part).
tea bag varieties are moldy.
you are also likely to find it on your kitchen sponge, since you wipe up dust each day.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++only buy fresh bread not wrapped in plastic.
an elderly person may have no diarrhea at all with the epsom salts!
pour into dispenser bottle.
(cheese sauce: add milk, olive oil  to a block of cheese.
quassia recipe 546  emmenagogue (menstrual period inducer) 546 bowel program 546 constipation tea  548 weight reduction 548 kidney cleanse 549 liver herbs 552 liver cleanse 552
what kind of heat the worst is coal.
we must and can usher in the new age of disease-free living.
because of hostility from insurance companies who do not wish to add another cost to their ledger and doctors indoctrinated with misinformation, bad publicity is given to this wonderful, life-prolonging mode of treatment.
remove all infected teeth and clean cavitations.
ethnic foods often had to be given up when children were raised (switched to hot dogs and pizza) but with this diversion gone, a return to family food would be most welcome and most healthful.
it may be called "congestive heart failure".
would getting away from preoccupation with chemistry be a big  answer?
when the fluke is gone,  i no longer find ebv in the white blood cells.
conveniences vs. tremor is no contest.
the fowl dish should be very well done, never "fast food".
if they haven't communicated much for a long time, it would  be easy for you to miss a simple fact.
remember taking vitamin c (10 grams or more) helps detoxify the molds.
beautiful plastic mouth.
since it takes a frequency generator (3 minutes at each of 434, 432, 427,  425, 423, 421 khz) or zapper mere minutes to kill the fluke and its stages you  will be stopping the production of growth factors immediately.
keep in mind that this diet may reduce the need for insulin almost  immediately.
if no other natural beverages appeal, serve hot water with cream and  cinnamon.
we are living in a very fortunate time.
mercury as in tooth fillings.
milk served hot with honey adds the nutritive value of honey, displacing the need for other unnatural sweets.
iodine has a distinctive trait: it hangs up on anything and everything.
rinse your whole body, too, since citric acid is also anti-bacterial.
keeping it out on alternate days or 5 days of  the week will not suffice.
but if salmonellas are entrenched here, too, the lower end does  not have enough action to push the food through the valve.
generally, you are in charge of the flow rate.
don't be discouraged if you have lupus, cerebral palsy, cirrhosis, or any complex-sounding disease.
pour the rest through a bamboo strainer into a sterile pint jar (glass) and several freezable containers.
your ill-chosen diet and lifestyle products!
when you see how much  filth is in the water and realize how much dirt you were living with, you might  be willing to trade in the "beauty" of carpets for the cleaner living  of smooth floors.
salmonellas, along with shigellas, produce very toxic substances that cause dizziness.
any kind of fish or seafood is acceptable, provided it is well-cooked.
zap daily until you feel completely well: no night  sweats, no coughing, no symptoms of any kind.
then we eat  them along with our food.
for this reason, i  suggest in this book that you go back (actually "forward") to self  made products, unprocessed food and a limited number of tested supplements.
if the elderly person is on a heart-slowing drug, check the pulse twice a day after zapping to make sure it doesn't drop too low.
(the pink color is from mercury or cadmium which is  added to the plastic.)
life is normalized when drugs, especially beta blockers are gone.
the top surfaces of tooth fillings are kept glossy by brushing (you  swallow some of what is removed).
honey and rice bread or other wheat-free, corn-free bread with  unsalted butter.
other organs are dependent on the failing  organ and begin to fail also.
change all the copper pipe to pvc plastic immediately.
unfortunately, this works for 2-year-olds and up.
old fashioned cooking took most of the day.
you must come to the assistance of your liver.
it is not new genes that you need.
we  have accumulated them in a lifetime.
do not drink water that sits in glazed crock ware (the glaze seeps toxic elements like cadmium) like some water dispensers have.
apricot kernel oil (optional) 1 cup water boil starch and water until clear, about one minute.
it all begins with the stomach although chewing food well is essential for really good digestion.
the ravages of cancer must be healed once the malignancy has been stopped.
ask to see your crowns when they are removed.
- homemade pudding or custard, all ingredients well cooked.
ask these questions: is the stool orangish-yellow, or very pale, instead of greenish brown?
mix the following and scatter in trunks and bags containing furs and woolens: 1/2 lb.
+++fail to work, even when coupled with strong heart medicine +++(digitoxin(tm)), the kidney herb recipe can bail you out of the +++emergency.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ of all these measures, stopping mold consumption is the most important.
use citric acid in the rinse water for this purpose.
then  test the dentures for toxins.
cure anemia and low iron levels.
when you kill bacteria (and schistosomes and ascaris and other  parasites that bring in bacteria) and blood potassium levels go up, the problem  is solved.
some unsafe beverages.
kill all  bacteria, viruses and parasites with a zapper.
you are always picking up parasites!
give them the credit for improving their health.
there is no half way measure with benzene.
of course, paper is best, but in emergency use cloth.
the most common parasite heart invaders are dirofilaria, heartworm "of dogs" and loa loa, another small filaria worm.
they harbor propyl alcohol until they make that final sacrifice.
be prepared to use extra paper padding in underwear to help  catch the extra urine output.
only the strength of their immune system decides this.
if not enough milk is drunk: make custard pudding or rice pudding so the daily amount (3 cups) is consumed.
find butter that is not wrapped in foil and is not salted.
this is why aflatoxin, for instance, is found not just in your cereal, bread and pasta but in nuts, maple syrup, orange juice, vinegar, wine, etc.
stop using your vitamin supplements.
notice the energy lift your loved one gets from this most primitive body cleanse.
don't ever purchase something you believe is detrimental to your elderly person.
immunity to all the  diseases that lurk at very low level in our bodies.
but a good salt rule is to either cook with it  or have it on the table, but not both.
again, remember that we are all different and any new treatment should be applied in a cautious, common sense fashion.
wax and debris  accumulate behind the aid because the channel is stopped up.
make up a 5 to 10% solution of food grade alcohol.
serve au gratin  potatoes or scalloped potatoes or any kind of potatoes that will be enjoyed.
sometimes the white composite fillings are called porcelain fillings but they are not.
bananas are the top choice.
get it down within 5 minutes (fifteen minutes for very elderly or weak persons).
(yes, i took a sample of the wash to test.)
unfortunately, the buyers are being duped.
the problem is knowing which they are.
never let a child clean up a pet mess.
bring your "fixed" honeys to the home.
they are full of titanium, zirconium, benzalkonium, bismuth, antimony, barium, strontium, aluminum, tin, chromium, not to mention pollution solvents such as benzene and pcbs.
thioctic acid or lipoic acid.
commercial detergents are polluted with pcbs and have cobalt added.
walking is a brisk exercise, done as speedily as possible and lasting at least 1/2 hour.
wouldn't it be wonderful if the sick could join them?
you may need to wet it with water or a vitamin e perle first.
each, or fill size 00 capsules yourself)
even inside cupboards, store them upside down.
polio was once a scourge.
the opinions expressed herein are based on my  scientific research and on specific case studies involving my patients.
continue increasing in this way to day 14, whereupon you  are up to seven capsules.
you pray that your child's immunity  will overcome it.
32 sheep liver flukes.
do not use a prescription variety, since  they are polluted with heavy metals; use only the brand in the sources chapter,  or a brand that you have tested pure.
follow with 5% grain alcohol.
their brilliant work and  discussion was largely responsible for my pursuit of the whole subject of  cancer.)
this raises the temperature much higher than boiling.
wait twenty minutes to let any viruses infecting the killed bacteria  emerge.
just drop the whole  lemon in the tank so it can't block the hoses.
mixing potassium salt with regular salt, half and half, for the shaker is  another easy trick, even if you only use it in cooking where the taste cannot  be detected.
with a parasite and pollution-free heart and a low-resistance, freely flowing kidney, some reserve strength will soon be built up.
they seek health for themselves.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++most regular anemias,  including low iron levels, +++are associated with hookworm infestations.
using a frequency generator to electrocute adenovirus (393 khz for three minutes) is not effective either because you are not killing the mites and tapeworm stages at the same time, and the adenoviruses are coming from them.
the cure for all diseases hulda regehr clark, ph.d., n.d. dr. clark's follow-up to "the cure for all cancers" where she expands her natural treatment techniques to a cure all diseases.
eggs any style except soft boiled and scrambled.
zearalenone, a mycotoxin i find in  popcorn, corn chips, and brown rice specifically inhibits detoxification of  benzene.
it is the clothes dryer belt and hair dryer!
nickel draws cancer to the prostate.
perhaps the price we pay for civilization, like the steer's price, is simply too high.
roast nuts after washing in vitamin c  water to destroy aflatoxin and then store in refrigerator.
alcoholic beverages contain ergot and aflatoxin.
sometimes i had cold  symptoms; sometimes i didn't.
they may need to be off  their heart medicine.
get the olive oil and grapefruit out to warm up.
outwit the cravings here are some examples.
could the researchers have accidentally transferred the bacteria from the shell to the inside while they were testing?)
if you must  keep the juicer or dishes outside of cupboards, keep them covered or placed  upside down so they don't catch dust.
to  overcome resistance, find a cheerful neighborhood person willing to do this  task for pay.
do this as  soon as you have found a dentist able to do it.
to test the medicines and supplements put one of each in resealable baggies.
it is possible to do detailed analysis of foods or products at a reasonable price.
if the  problem is auto exhaust, don't accept "but we have to use the kitchen door  to the garage, because it's cold outside".
more good news is that it is not expensive.
if you are just making one pass on your carpet, use the borax, alcohol, and boric acid.
if there are teenagers in the house, add a hefty dose of cayenne  to it.
get yours in bulk from an herb company.
in spice oleoresins as a residue from the extraction of spice, at a level not to exceed 50 parts per million.
talk about aging in its positive aspects.
(the molds could be detoxified with vitamin c the same way as honey.
the noise of a filter motor and fumes it may put out itself adds misery to the simple job of breathing.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ don't eat food directly off the  counter top or table top.
rice and pastas can be demolded partly by cooking and partly by adding vitamin c before or after cooking.
before  these, an episode of "flu" or a dental "repair".
week|teaspoons |drops on food, |open capsule,|open capsule, |on food |cats twice per |put smallest |put smallest | |week, dogs daily|pinch on food|pinch on food ----+--------------+----------------+-------------+--------------- 1 | 1 or more, | | | | based on size| | | 2 | 1 or more | 1 | | | | | | 3 | 1 or more | 1 or more, | 1 | | | based on size | | 4 | 1 or more | 1 or more | 1 | 1 | | | | 5 | 1 or more | 1 or more | 1 | 1 | | | | | and so on | | | healing is automatic when you clean up your body tissues.
insomnia has better solutions than caffeine, though.) -
+++try to clear this up.
- a pregnant woman puts herself on a pickled pigs  feet and white bread diet.
they do, however, contain enough barium or zirconium to make them visible on x-rays.
if your child has undesirable behavior, try going off the moldy food suspects for three weeks (cold cereals, nuts and nut butters, store bought breads and baked goods, syrups).
if your indigestion comes in the  night, this suggests shigellas, since they've had time to reach their favorite  place further down.
"fast food" is plopped from  the freezer into the boiling grease which browns the outside nicely but can  easily leave the inside undercooked.
tremor is a symptom, not a natural part of aging.
you can find out by waiting until a time when you have a tapeworm stage or mite and no adenovirus.
but now you can throw the rascals out and reclaim your territory.
no government agency can test for all of  these mycotoxins in all of our foods.
you have something at  stake too.
use borax, or washing soda,  or use paper plates and plastic cups (not styrofoam).
measures to reduce mold are not effective enough.
- baked or boiled potato (don't eat skin) with olive oil and salt as described on page 310.
in long-ago days, all sheets, towels, table  cloths, and underwear were separated and boiled.
accept the charge with humor and dignity - as long as you're not expected to eat any more spoiled, moldy food.
mix only as much as you will use because the diluted form loses potency.
you may use ketchup, cinnamon, or brown sugar to chase it down between sips.
later, when heart health is improved, the heart will  beat regularly without drug use.
simply stay seated until you are comfortable again.
elderly people are more easily poisoned than others; their hemorrhages  show up as strokes and purple blotches on the skin.
magnesium, being a mineral, does not get destroyed as vitamins may.
it is  present on dried peas and beans but it can be detoxified in 5 minutes by adding  vitamin c to the water they are soaked in.
81 bottle with white  blood cells taped to top.
uva ursi capsules: one with breakfast and two with supper.
even though grain (drinking) alcohol is the recommended substitute for propyl alcohol, that doesn't mean you may safely drink it.
rinse the nuts in water first (a lot of mold is removed in this simple way).
sturdy decorative plastic ware can be found in hardware and camping stores.
but we can trick them into eating corn and soybeans by  adding the flavors they like and thereby defeat their wisdom the same way we  defeat ours.
i conclude that one lives inside the other!
you can make your own syrup, safely, with artificial flavor and turbinado sugar.
i never find  lack of exercise, vitamin deficiencies, hormone levels or anything else to be a  primary causative factor.
take ornithine at bedtime for insomnia.
if you stand it on end in the sink it will partly dry overnight.
21 cfr 173.240 (4-1-94 edition) isopropyl alcohol.
i was hot on the heels of adenovirus wherever it might be in my body.
make mashed potatoes from scratch, with milk, not box potatoes, nor chips nor french fries.
such large changes are called evolutionary.
never eat rare meats or fast food chicken.
- don't eat with your hands!
old literature advises that potatoes should be harvested by moonlight so the green drug isn't produced in the white varieties.
remove cans of gasoline, solvents, etc.
many persons with sensitive stomachs  prefer to stay longer on each dose instead of increasing according to this  schedule.
blood pressures below  110 may prevent strokes but ruin the quality of life.
hearing loss the hearing deficit in an elderly person is always much greater than they
don't handle metal  unconsciously throughout the day.
ice  cold food stimulates the thyroid; loved by low thyroid persons.
but if you are quite ill it is best to board it with a +++friend until you are better.
even persons who don't live with a house dog can pick up heartworm.
choose brands with the shortest list of ingredients.
the adrenals  are situated right on top of the kidneys where all toxic things are being  excreted.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++throw these out +++ +++your health is worth more than the fortune you spent on them!
drugs like reglan(tm) are given to speed this up.
heat it to boiling every fourth day if it is being stored in the refrigerator; this resterilizes it.
you can freely experiment with niacin to find the best dosage and variety; it is not toxic in this amount; but the size of the tablet should not turn it into an unpleasant chore.
this might be the only time of day they can enjoy their  walk.
7553-56-2), potassium iodide (cas reg.
be prepared to use extra paper padding in underwear to help catch the extra urine output.
fresh parsley can be bought at a grocery store.
bring hope to your  family by proving diseases' true etiology.
increase minerals adding water to the diet could be the most difficult of tasks if your  elderly loved one "doesn't like it".
+++double them for a 20 pound pet, and so forth.
you have given yourself your next sore throat, or cold or headache.
if your child has undesirable behavior, try going  off the moldy food suspects for three weeks (cold cereals, nuts and nut  butters, store bought breads and baked goods, syrups).
52 packaged herb  tea is moldy and polluted with solvents.
figure 56 smooth floors allow every bit of  dust to be removed.
health is feeling great, feeling like laughing at funny things.
drink 3/4 cup of the mixture.
these markers reflect the condition of the organ, not  its malignant nature.
now, air conditioning has made indoor living more comfortable.
originaly published at: http://healthalternative.freeyellow.com/cfad.htm here are the the parts of the book that are only available as images (.gif's) : electricity can now be used to kill bacteria, viruses and parasites in minutes, not days or weeks as antibiotics require.
for foods you can't heat that high, for example nuts that are already  roasted, or vinegar, vitamin c comes to the rescue.
try to understand these communications: what you | what the elderly | what they think | what they respond  (caregiver) say | person hears | |  ------------------+-------------------+------------------+-------------------
on a day that you eat fish, you would not need milk.
the menu is heavy on green beans and asparagus and cinnamon.
citric acid also conditions and gives body and sheen to hair.
use vinegar on your kitchen wipe-up cloth to leave a residue that keeps out ants.
hide it in a far away closet.
it is common for patients who have had their metal fillings removed to have various symptoms go away but, again, they do not tell the dentist.
the elderly can't make changes for themselves.
simmer for 5-10 minutes, let settle or strain.
it weakens blood  vessels so they break easily.
if you see it has a good effect on your loved one, give several a day.
ergot is a common contaminant of grains: don't provide rye or pumpernickel breads or crackers.
if  so, bile isn't getting delivered to the small intestine from the liver.
the sandwich has lettuce, real butter, and whatever else tastes good (no cheese, bacon bits or condiments).
there is no sweetening other than honey (5 kinds).
it starts females maturing too early, too.
-  personal lubricant, including lubricated condoms - baking soda and cornstarch  (see the sources chapter) - tea tree oil products (except the one shown in  figure 45) - soaps, hand creams, skin creams, moisturizers - flavored pet food,  both for cats and dogs - bird food made into cakes figure 44: mexican made candy with no benzene.
if drinking water starts the coughing, omit it at the beginning of meals.
by the sixth day you will have convinced yourself there is no  toxicity or side effects.
later,  in the brain, oxygen must jump off again to enter the brain cells.
moving into the summer kitchen got you away from the accumulation of filth from winter!
mopping, instead of the vacuum  cleaner, keeps dirt to a minimum.
this contains 250 mg.
don't ever salvage moldy food, whether it is fruit,  breads or leftovers in the refrigerator.
once the patient begins to feel well they take it for  granted, and don't make the connection, either.
develops moisture inside.
of  course, you'll be missing the taste and nutritional minerals provided by the  natural maple product but in a contest between nutritional value and toxicity,  always choose the safe product.
don't use a plastic thermos jug (the plastic liner has lanthanides) the inside must be glass.
a day and watch your sugar craving shrink.
but once it is changed you are back to  an automatic way of doing something.
don't throw out the drug diuretics.
pet parasite program pets have many of the same parasites that we get, including ascaris  (common roundworm), hookworm, trichinella, strongyloides, heartworm and a  variety of tapeworms.
they live with us and other animals.
when your loved one is drinking three cups of milk (or buttermilk or whey) a day and three cups of water, there will be no room (nor request) for the usual coffee and tea and other bad beverages.
not only that, most are too small and not calcified, a prerequisite for visibility on x-ray.
15 trichinella larvae settled in muscles.
it takes a fairly long time to get it perfectly smooth.
my evidence comes  from a tapeworm stage, cysticercus of diphyllobothrium erinacea, the mites  sarcoptes and dermatophagoides, and our own colon bacteria, e. coli.
custard, cooked greens, baked potato.
these diseases are caused by the same parasite.
zearalenone ("zear") and aflatoxin both have immune lowering effects.
when you get them, store them in their original double plastic bag.
if the dentist says that  he or she can change your metal fillings to plastic but it would be better to  crown them, say "no!"
try to get cooperation.
thallium pollution frightens me more than lead, cadmium and mercury combined, because it is completely unsuspected.
and to learn the true causes of infection and  disease.
if you or your child are not ready to eat them, avoid them carefully, so you don't get a surprise dose of the toxic chemical.
28 fig. 5 simplest zapper.
usually the mother has eaten onions or members of the  cabbage family.
normal treatment cost is about $1,000 for replacement of 6 to 8 metal fillings including the examination and x-rays.
even a slight drop in sodium and potassium chloride in the blood (body fluids) can make you too fatigued to tie your own shoelaces.
calcium propionate is added to bread-stuff to inhibit molding.
hair dryers, too, may be imported and shed asbestos.
the flush is intensified by giving hot liquids or acids (even vitamin c)  to drink.
this can stain some things.
sometimes it shows  up in pockets that hang like giant oranges from the skin.
stir often in order to brown evenly.
fortunately, your health improvement does not need to wait on such studies.
don't save leftovers more than two days.
use aluminum-free sea salt, and make  sure the salt is sterilized by heating five minutes at 400 degrees f in a glass  pie plate to kill mold.
not only mercury, but all metal needs to be banned.
remember, all honey must be pretreated with vitamin c. all fruit is peeled and free of blemishes and soft spots.
let your family and other caretakers know you are no longer supplying these items (the car keys, the wine bottle, the codeine-containing pain pills).
we all must die of something.
a method for determining the degree of precision is also  presented.
but what if they like and prefer their monolithic "scientific", "complete", polluted diet?
kill the parasite and you have stopped the cancer.
if you find any, you know the dentures are toxic!
red potatoes have  different chemistry that doesn't produce the green toxin, buy these often.
effects are cumulative and with continuous  exposure toxicity occurs at much lower levels.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ as soon as you feel a cold coming, ask yourself: what did you eat recently  that might have been moldy?
yet bread from small neighborhood bakeries does not have mold!
the health department does not miss any; call them!
i would suggest limiting yourself to one glass of soda pop a day, even if you do not have heart disease.
you can prove this by  providing oxygen from a tank; modern equipment is very easy to use and  inexpensive.
a part of every skin problem is due to the toxic elements found in the soaps themselves.
notice how many are shaped like corks with longitudinal grooves below the tops.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++mold eluded, is health improved.
if your elderly loved one has a red-looking mouth or throat, instead of pink, an infection is going on in spite of no coughs and no complaints.
be sympathetic with negative responses.
the peripheral nervous system can be  severely affected with dying-back of the longest sensory and motor fibers.
stay in hotels less than ten years old (so the plumbing hasn't started to corrode) but not in new construction (give the carpets time to outgas).
ergot a food mold that causes strange feelings  and behavior is ergot.
i have found solvents, heavy metals and lanthanides in 90% or more of the popular vitamin and mineral capsules and tablets i test.
throw away your old sponge or brush or cloth because it may be pcb contaminated.
sweating excretes toxic substances, especially from the upper body.
the opening of blood  vessels by niacin only lasts a few hours.
life is normalized  when drugs, especially beta blockers are gone.
if the cancer damaged your ovaries or prostate, you still must heal these organs.
food that is predominantly concocted can't be interpreted by your body wisdom.
vitamin c powder per loaf to help retard mold further (it also makes the bread rise higher).
how did an obscure virus - a snail virus! - become a human virus?
the bread is wheat-free, corn-free, stored  in freezer.
either grind them yourself or see the sources  chapter.
lines that mark the ground around you.
the heart, especially, benefits by the cooler air temperature.
sit outside in the shade all day.
the top surfaces of tooth fillings are kept glossy by brushing (you swallow some of what is removed).
potassium ousts sodium (salt) from your body, so you can use twice as much of  this kind of salt!
the bioradiation spectrum 16
bring these two items to your loved one at the  "home" if it cannot be provided regularly and reliably.
increase pressure of blood running through the blood vessels.
so how could evolutionary forces have "learned" to  establish death to prevent overpopulation?
or shell fresh roasted peanuts yourself, throwing away all shriveled or darkened nuts.
curing symptoms cold symptoms alone can be cured much faster than the cold.
do this at bedtime, especially for cracked, chapped hands.
it may get in your lungs if they're full of arsenic  or formaldehyde, in your throat if it's full of mercury from your fillings, in  your spinal cord if it's full of thallium.
several common mold toxins inhibit the immune system, too, specifically  those white blood cells that are supposed to eat and destroy viruses.
this will catch insecticide, flowers, carpets all  together.
give yourself  chromium (gtf) tablets totalling 1 mg.
two bowel movements a day are the minimum necessary for good health.
in order to stay sick, you must be constantly resupplied!
plain water is just as good.
melt and cook at least 10 seconds.)
the biggest source of asbestos is not building materials!
sometimes it gets to other organs, like the muscles, the spleen,  the pancreas.
it is not wise to  take iron pills, even if they do raise hemoglobin levels, except in  life-threatening situations.
- a child  wants ketchup on everything.
underneath is tarnish and foulness.
he recommended  apple cider vinegar for its extra potassium.
even though you needed  three pads to be "safe" you will not need any.
a few varieties may die but most of them  don't.
living to age 140 is not living forever.
yet it is marooned there unless you assist them.
2 cups heavy whipping cream, previously boiled 1/4 tsp.
maybe only the respiratory organs do; maybe they start to replicate in the organ where they emerge, such as the liver and then get to the respiratory tract.
as soon as the drink is down walk to your bed and lie down flat on your back with your head up high on the pillow.
after the blood pressure comes up to 115 (systolic) mental performance  will be greatly improved.
always  try the vinegar and honey method first.
the patient has to be asked!
the raw salad should be chopped small enough to be edible by dentures.
39 too hot and too cold.
asbestos (clothes dryer belt) paint thinner, carpet cleaner (remove from house) fiberglass from bare insulation somewhere (fix holes in ceiling or wall) formaldehyde (new foam bedding, new fabric or clothing)
the flush is intensified by giving hot liquids or acids (even vitamin c) to drink.
brown sugar is also polluted with sorghum molds, but fortunately you can  detoxify this mold with vitamin c as usual.
first kill the bacteria in the dentures by soaking in 70% grain alcohol.
this suggests that the virus  comes from the fluke.
remember to give yourself the credit for a fine accomplishment when your loved  one's diabetes improves.
this recipe is intended for alcoholic persons: cover the green balls in the 10 quart (non-metal) pot with cold tap water.
do not use black strap molasses as an iron source, or any molasses, since it contains toxic molds.
this might be the only time of day they can enjoy their walk.
go extra slow on the first few days, even though you find it quite tasty, so there is no discomfort (only lots of bathroom visits).
so they reach for products that just list herbs and other natural ingredients.
after adding l/4 tsp.
monthly trips to your vet are not sufficient.
on occasion we have provided dosage recommendations where appropriate.
cook and eat with non-metal ware.
fresh fruit salad and baked potatoes and soup also provides a lot.
when the stool floats you can assume that calcium isn't being absorbed either, leaving the blood in a deficit which will be taken from the bones.
editor helmut sigel 1980.)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ body wisdom and why bad food tastes good don't let yourself eat junk food just because your body craves something  in it.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++the common cold should not be  so common!
put portions  in the freezer.
the answer is yes, no doubt you ate moldy food recently.
this is already 50% alcohol.
i have not found a single person to  be entirely free of it, including persons without cancer or disease.
- black walnut hull tincture extra strength - grain alcohol about 10% mix one part extra strength tincture with three parts of the 10% alcohol.
put it in everything possible, from cereal to soup to rice (1/8 tsp. is enough).
if  centenarians can't think well or express themselves, their perspectives are  lost.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++treat the adrenal glands to 5 supplements.
use old-fashioned mouse traps.
- don't eat with  your hands!
milk served hot  with honey adds the nutritive value of honey, displacing the need for other  unnatural sweets.
zap flukes and eliminate  wood alcohol as described in the section on diabetes (page 173).
make and bake things for yourself 2.
think of the kidneys as a colander full of tiny holes of various sizes that let certain things through them but not bigger things.
aflatoxin is a substance made by mold; bread starts to mold on the grocery store shelf.
to clean your basement, remove all paint, varnish, thinners, brush cleaners, and related supplies.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ because processed foods have many toxins, you must cook as much from scratch as possible.
in a few weeks it can be gone.
buy such small quantities that you can afford to throw it all away when you are done with them.
dentures should fit perfectly so the mouth does not develop sores.
although i used to recommend  single herb teas (tea mixtures have solvents), i can now only recommend single  herb teas from fresh sources in bulk (see the sources chapter).
it does take a whole morning  to make pasta or some ethnic dish.
they touch all kinds of door knobs.
it is a time of great change for this planet as pollution spreads from  pole to pole.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++treat the adrenal glands to 5  supplements.
even when the tremor lessens and the  elderly person plainly states they feel better, family members may disregard  your recommendations.
but until safe methods are invented, such food should be considered unsafe for human consumption (or pets or livestock!).
kill them, routinely, after eating such food due to necessity.
getting rid of mites we do not tolerate external parasites like bedbugs, lice, ticks, leeches.
if one person develops cancer or hiv, the others probably have the intestinal fluke also.
cooking oil and  shortening (use only olive oil, butter and lard) -
33 fig. 8 fasciolopsis' normal life cycle.
- hash brown potatoes.
the more you eat the more you crave because chromium is being used up as  you eat it and yet it is necessary to utilize more sugar.
the instructions are simple enough for anyone.
a diuretic pill could certainly have a similar effect.
there is very little cheese (it must always be boiled in a sauce to sterilize).
it can be used in the hot milk or in other ways.
vegetable soup, homemade, from scratch.
much living was done outdoors, the cleanest space of all.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++all supplements must be tested for purity by yourself.
unfortunately, many  people are in a tight financial position because of the cost of years of  ineffective treatment, trying to get well.
learn how to identify and remove what causes your cancer -- your body will do the rest.
i remember our parents spraying for them (kerosene) in the bedroom.
we should take a lesson from  nursing babies: when they refuse to nurse, there is something unpalatable in  the mother's milk.
either the plumbing gets changed (to plastic) or each faucet in the house  gets a filter.
these are extra dividends for your loved one.
128  fig. 23 gallstones.
absorbent pants of all kinds are  heavily chemicalized.
once you have stopped  using it, the last remnants leave your body within three days.
why risk your health and  life on their opinions?
there are a lot of remedies for constipation, but many people enjoy this tea: - 1 tbs senna tea leaves - 1/2 tsp.
you take advantage of it.
none of us likes to change a habit.
cut down on drug diuretics gradually, using  only 3/4 dose the first day, then 1/2 dose, then 1/4 dose.
butter must not be "raw".
deep, soft, wall to wall carpets compromise an ancient concept: everything should be washable and cleanable, without throwing the dirt into the air for humans to inhale.
after mixing these, add any pure spice desired.
keep refrigerated when not in use.
hands are second only to the dish cloth in contamination level.
the best advice to stop a cold is to: eat sterile food for 24 hours.
here are a few foods; see if you can guess whether they should be in your diet or not.
-------------- metal fillings  change to plastic fillings inlays and onlays change to plastic fillings crowns  (all types) change to plastic crowns bridges change to plastic crowns, partials  metal partials change to plastic partials (flexite(tm))
28 bottling equipment should be rinsed with ethyl (grain) alcohol, not propyl alcohol or wood alcohol.
if anything in your microwave has turned dark brown or black or has melted plastic, throw it out!
try to have  them analyzed for thallium using the most sensitive methods available, possibly  at a research institute or university.
be sure to zap after taking your maintenance parasite treatment.
in an age of lowered immunity, it makes little sense to deliberately poison the food with benzopyrenes.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ dr. clark: removing all metal means removing all root canals, metal  fillings and crowns.
mixing these with socks and towels and dishcloths is all right if you are going to kill everything anyway.
day 6: take  2 tsp., all together in 1/4 cup water.
use unflavored, uncolored feed for them to  minimize pollution from processing.
however it can make you feel quite ill for one or two days afterwards, although in every one of these cases the maintenance parasite program had been neglected.
44 mexican made candy with no benzene.
no. 7681-11-o), and isopropanol (cas reg.
they can eradicate invasive e. coli and shigella bacteria!
it is an unnatural chemical.
this will  certainly increase the "pickiness" of a child's appetite.
homeopathic remedy | for these symptoms  -------------------+---------------------------------------------------------  aconitum | early cold with fever, headache, hoarse cough allium | clear runny  nose with burning of lips or eyes arsenicum | sneezing cold, frontal headache,  tickling cough belladonna | high fever cold with flushed face, throbbing head  kali bi | thick post nasal drip, colored discharge, sinus headache spongia |  croupy cough figure 49:
it is a time of great frustration for you.
but your  closeness puts you at risk.
take an attitude of over compliance, not "getting away" with as much as possible.
remove all  infected teeth and clean cavitations.
although most bowel bacteria are beneficial, the ones that are not, like salmonellas and shigellas, are extremely detrimental because they have the ability to invade the rest of your body and colonize a trauma site or weakened organ.
the cost will range from a few  hundred dollars to only a few thousand in order to eliminate both problems and  cure your chronic diseases.
epstein barre virus (ebv) is a mysterious disease because in spite of building up antibodies, it attacks repeatedly.
for dessert, serve 1 tbs.
how would you interpret these situations, taken from real life: - an  elderly person can't stand butter, wants and enjoys margarine.
keep the cutting board sterile like dishes.
if they haven't communicated much for a long time, it would be easy for you to miss a simple fact.
your body is accustomed, natively, to interpret sugar, salt, and flavors as "good, good, good."
it must be thoroughly analyzed for them because minute impurities affect their results.
since alcohol evaporates and is expensive, use a wide mouth jar with close fitting non-metal lid for all this.
will you ever get your primitive body wisdom back and enjoy vegetables, fruit, simple styles of cooking and baking them?
human food (in general, in the u.s.) is very, very moldy.
each day you reboil it, it is sterile again.
such toxins lower the immunity of the mouth and throat and stomach since it all flows down into the stomach.
keep track of  this twice a day with a modern electronic finger device (not an arm cuff that  itself can break blood vessels).
after changing your pipes to plastic, there will be so little iron and hardness left, you may not need a softener.
see also thallium and specific compounds.
lipstick 539 face powder 540 blush (face powder in a cake  form) 540 recipes for household products 540 floor cleaner 540 furniture duster  and window cleaner 540 furniture polish 541 insect killer 541 ant repellent 541  flower and foliage spray 542 moth balls 542 carpet cleaner 542health  improvement recipes 543 black walnut hull tincture 543
don't settle your loved one in an easy  chair after supper.
it would never do to live forever.
a combination of herbs (liver herb drink in the recipes chapter, page 552) rescues the liver from its plight, and prevents the indigestion.
the mold in our hot cereals can be spotted.
the stomach becomes a haven  for salmonellas and other bacteria and this is the biggest digestive plague of  the elderly.
a  university chemistry library should have this book.
if you get a hefty  dose of mold at the outset of your cold, the toxicity lasts quite a long time.
if your loved constantly has cold hands or feed, try to improve circulation.
live on op of the earth as was intended by nature.
after the blood pressure comes up to 115 (systolic) mental performance will be greatly improved.
i hope more dentists  acquire his techniques.
acute poisoning has  followed the ingestion of toxic quantities of a thallium-bearing depilatory and  accidental or suicidal ingestion of rat poison.
this is not a task for the timid!
- don't use toothpaste, not even health-food varieties.
does a captive animal learn from seeing its companion disappear?
it hides under tooth fillings, too.
exposure to air does cause the tincture to darken and lose potency.
all milk, cream, butter must be  sterilized for 10 seconds at full boiling point.
should we accept our fate with the same docility?
of course, the chlorine bleach bottle should not be kept under the sink.
scrub it off under the tap.
buy hot cereals that say "no salt added," like cream of wheat, steel cut oats or old fashioned oats, millet, corn meal, cream of rice, or wheatena.
in two hours they are already multiplying in the  greatest culture system of all: your body!
homeopaths say they stimulate the immune system specifically.
or, mix and heat 4 tsp.
green beans, onions, garlic, eggplant, all have unique chemicals in them.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ bake your own bread!
it  can do everything, including baking the bread.
teach children to cough and sneeze into a suitable collecting place like a  tissue, not their hands.
outwit the  cravings here are some examples.
it's true that we have to die sometime.
use honeys instead of syrups and even add vitamin c to them.
if you put it in an ordinary salt shaker, it will cake soon.
don't use floss; use 2 or 4-pound monofilament fish line.
cloves: fill size 00 capsules with fresh ground cloves; if this size is not  available, use size o or 000.
mix it with home made preserves, honey, marmalade, not very homogeneously so the bright colors and individual flavors stand out in contrast.
life was indeed becoming more urban with horse manure on  all streets.
keep your dishes in cupboards.
the more mold a child eats, inadvertently, in peanut butter, bread, potato chips, syrups, the less capable the liver is of detoxifying foods.
then the tape eggs hatch into the cysticercus stage, which promptly gets  to the liver.
use starch skin soother to dispense onto the wet paper towel, besides borax solution and alcohol.
now, more than ever,  must you stay off dairy products (except for boiled milk), do the bowel  program, take lugol's.
similarly, pollutants can be uncovered in as short a time as days, short enough to turn any sick, even terminal, sufferer's verdict around before tragedy occurs.
you can add it anywhere in the diet where it won't be tasted.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++one more thing, don't take no for an answer ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
do whatever it takes to get your loved one out into the world again!
do  at least this much to get away from the mold-ridden grocery store loaves.
read the section on insomnia under sleep problems for  more on this (page 243).
some stores make it while you wait.
mange in animals is a mite infestation.
if it is not sterile the final warming will only increase the bacterial  count.
this encourages the elderly, letting them know their  existence and quality of life is important to you.
strike out the doses as you take them.
pure vegetable glycerin 2 vitamin e capsules (400 units or more, each) 1 tsp.
over compliance can bring back radiant health, strength you never knew you had, a beautiful normal body again!
you have to find out why you are so short, in spite of eating it.
many diabetics lose 50 points (mg/dl) of blood sugar in a few days on this  diet.
(sea gulls fly over the salt flats where sea salt is gathered.
add your own (non-aluminum) salt and a pinch of vitamin c before cooking.
brain  blood vessels are made narrower, cutting down the oxygen supply.
sometimes you can zap adenovirus, the common cold virus, at 393 khz for three minutes with a frequency generator and be rid of your cold, magically, in five minutes.
all cold cereals i tested were full of mold toxins (besides  solvents), health food varieties were worst.
now that water and wastes (urea and uric acid and other acids) can leave the body quickly through more holes, it takes less pressure from the heart to get blood pushed through the kidneys.
if other rooms have paneling or wallpaper, close their doors and spend no time in them.
if you are using a slide  specimen of cysticercus you can locate it in your body.
canned milk has solvent pollution.
the action is noticeable in an hour.
keep shoes off  couch or bed or chair.
our education about nutritive value of food may be sound but there are other facts to consider.
the main zear sources i have found so far are popcorn, corn chips, and brown rice.
dr. jerome: if your dentist tells you that mercury and other metals will not cause any problems, you will not be able to change his or her mind.
you may go back to bed.
people who must use fragrance should apply it outdoors to keep the indoor air less poluted.
furniture should be wood, cane, or plastic, with cushions to soften the impact.
| parsley | black walnut | wormwood  | clove capsule | water | hull tincture | capsule | dose | | dose | dose |  (side 0 or 00)
an enlightened system would be to add an antiseptic to the wash or rinse cycle.
the secret is to  talk to the patients themselves.
thyme and fenugreek, together, make a flavorful combination  you can purchase in capsules.
emphasize fish for animal food, not beef, pork, turkey or chicken.
don't drink out of styrofoam cups (styrene is toxic).
parsley water on  the pet's food.
bacteria, coming from teeth and jaw (bone infections, called cavitations)  may not seem as recent as two weeks.
add 4 oz honey (optional).
after  it's done, you'll wonder what was so difficult.
don't give them the advantage.
these roots should have a strong fragrance.
simply sending inspectors out to look into the bins at grain elevators is not sufficient.
blood thinning drugs to improve circulation are dangerous - use only if the doctor insists.
herbs, too, can cure symptoms rather quickly.
start with 1/4 cup and increase gradually, if you are not used to it.
the ada feels that  mercury amalgam fillings are safe because they do not vaporize or form toxic  compounds to a significant degree.
one table from this book is shown on page 431.
a sleeve is handy for children.
it will not kill ants.
liver cleanses are completely safe, even for persons in their 80's.
tip: encapsulated herbs stay fresher and  are more potent.
there are no syrups or sugars.
34 alcoholic beverages contain ergot and aflatoxin.
upon awakening take your third dose of epsom salts.
rub hands together until all the powder is dissolved and dispensed.
milk that is marketed in paper containers that need no refrigeration has been sterilized; it is safe.
for energy, to replace caffeine, take one arginine (500 mg, see the sources chapter) upon rising in the morning and before lunch.
when they take over the region near the top of the stomach, it weakens the esophageal sphincter and food keeps coming back up a bit - a most uncomfortable development, especially after supper or when lying down.
you also know that gentle persuasion is useless; it merely erodes your relationship.
powdered vitamin c (l/4 tsp.) is another useful acid if the first two are not effective enough.
if the liver is absolutely unable to handle something, you are informed quite quickly with an allergic reaction to the food.
one cup hot milk with cinnamon.
anything that is put in the refrigerator or freezer and then taken out develops moisture inside.
use an  electronic device to measure blood pressure, one with a finger cuff, not an arm  cuff which can itself induce broken blood vessels.
the enzyme, carbonic anhydrase, a zinc enzyme, is  involved.
perhaps some of the bizarre behavior and speech of  intoxication is really due to the mold-alcohol combination.
and without a taste or smell to guide you, how  would you know to stop eating the moldy peanut butter or spaghetti?
or even just the knowledge  they are staying well controlled and will never have to take insulin shots.
but what about mites?
if appetite is very poor, sweets will only worsen the problem.
learn to use the syncrometer to do your own testing.
the cream is necessary to improve calcium absorption.
absorption of fat and calcium depends on  bile mixing with the food.
benzene, a most unthinkable pollutant, is widespread in extremely small  amounts.
never, never your hands unless you are free to  immediately dash into the washroom and clean the contamination off your hands.
clean carpets with a "steam cleaner".
these get wiped with a  cloth or sponge and then applied to dishes.
no stomach infection such as ulcers or intestinal bloating can be cured permanently without removing these gallstones from the liver.
after finding one, you will notice it beeping in you for  several days.
other  tortillas made of flour and calcium propionate frequently had molds.
rinse the nuts in water first (a  lot of mold is removed in this simple way).
is it in the food or on the dishes?
will it become a full blown cold of the  usual kind?
correct a slow and irregular heart beat niacin open blood vessels wider by giving niacin.
wisdom gathered from a knowledge of history, might help end wars!
artificial maple flavor did not have benzene, propyl alcohol or wood  alcohol, nor molds.
test yourself for the presence of molds to see if you are accomplishing your goal.
magnesium, being a mineral, does not get destroyed as  vitamins may.
vacuum the carpets when the children, the sick and elderly are out of the house.
interpret this positively.
keep a dispenser by the kitchen sink, bathroom sink, and shower.
urinary tract bacteria, small kidney stones, moldy foods and metal from dentalware are the chief offenders.
being this near to the urinary tract will result in shared toxins.
look closely  and you see the whole panorama of your numerous tiny invaders being held at bay  by your valiant immune system, your white blood cells.
as the counter and table and stove get wiped "clean" a film of  contamination is left everywhere.
but  arrange for immediate privacy when you return.
this strength is necessary to push the blood into the farthest "corners" of the body, especially the hands and feet, and warm them up!
it would be a fascinating study, simply to examine each of these parasites singly, searching for their viruses with an electron microscope.
you get them from other people, your family, yourself, your home, your pets, undercooked meat, and undercooked dairy products.
besides, your skin absorbs it from  clothing, it is quite toxic to you, and can cause mental effects.
if you are responsible for this daily chore, use homemade  floss (2 pound to 4 pound nylon fish line) first; then brush.
this  will be the most polluted and dangerous room in your house.
this is called oral-fecal route.
baby  wipes 538 people wipes 538 recipes for natural cosmetics 539 eye liner and  eyebrow pencil 539
you may put the tincture in lukewarm water to help evaporate some of the alcohol, but do not use hot water because that may damage its parasiticide power.
empty it into a saucer.
fresh chopped chives may be added but no regular sour cream since this is very high in tyramine, a brain toxin.
they are well motivated to prevent the need for giving themselves daily shots  of insulin.
if your loved one had his or her way, they would drive the car forever, wear the same cosmetics forever, smoke or chew tobacco forever and eat their favorite dessert forever.
limit the total to 1 tbs. honey.
a difference  in acid levels makes this possible.
stop eating moldy food.
in places like chicago where you can smell the air as you approach the city, it is wiser to keep your windows shut.
but if you are quite ill it is  best to board it with a +++friend until you are better.
this explains why it is a disease  of aging.
i suppose it acts a lot  like the bisulfite, chemically destroying the mold toxin molecules.
we land in a debacle such as the present one, where large segments of society are ill with uncontrollable behavior (called crime), suffer from hormone imbalances and sexual disturbances, are sidelined by chronic fatigue and new illness.
plastic gloves water 1.
after this, you  may proceed more slowly if you wish.
substitute cooked  cereals, bakery breads, potatoes, and honeys.
take a pint container to the shower with you.
sometimes we know what started it all.
refrigerate a pint and freeze 1 pint.
so if you're body tells you that you need grease, go back to olive oil, butter, cheese (baked only), lard, avocados, nuts and nut butters (homemade only) and seeds.
dr. jerome: dentists are not commonly given information on these metals used in plastics.
if you have recurring urinary tract infections, you should reduce your metal contact even further; eat with plastic cutlery.
there is a large amount of nickel in hydrogenated fats.
if you have an electric hot water heater the heating element releases metal.
ask your pharmacist to make it from scratch for you (there are only two ingredients and water, see the recipes chapter).
other kinds of"anemia" can deprive your elderly person of  oxygen.
the sense of humor comes back: be prepared for some new jokes and new laughter.
but what a convenient place for baby stages of the fluke to hide out and multiply, safe from your immune system.
dispose of all spare units.
underwear should be dried  until too hot to handle.
wait twenty minutes to let viruses and bacteria in the dead larger  parasites emerge.
wood alcohol  invites them to eyes and pancreas.
(call the american dental association at (800) 621-8099 (illinois (800) 572-8309, alaska or hawaii (800) 621-3291).
either remove them or move your bed to a different room.
use only white distilled  vinegar.
then you do 2 more days of 7  capsules each.
cobalt, which adds "lustre" to carpets, causes skin and heart disease after it has built up in your organs.
+++if this cannot be done, don't take them.
bake the strainer occasionally or put  through the dishwasher to keep it sterile.
be sure all  dairy foods, including butter and whipping cream, are sterilized.
the growth of industrial activity, mining, chemical  manufacturing, the food "industry", and personal habits like smoking  have spread new chemicals to every corner of the globe.
wormwood capsules: 7 capsules (with 200-300 mg wormwood each) at once on  an empty stomach.
there are solvents in decaffeinated beverages, herb tea blends (not single herb teas), carbonated drinks, beverages with nutrasweet(tm), flavored coffee, diet and health mixes, and fruit juices, even when the label states "not from concentrate" or "fresh from the orchard," or "100% pure.
the only ingredient you might see is "grapefruit seed" or similar healthy-sounding natural antiseptic.
it is free of pain, free of medicine, free of shots and doctor visits, free of dementia, free of the dreadful weakness that demands so much help.
unless you  use a syncrometer to test, you can not know.
go to the sink and wipe clean the armpits like our grandparents did.
pour over a few ice cubes.
a great deal of research has been done on aflatoxin.
the  most important rule to observe, though, is to take the treatment slowly.
the mucus in our lungs traps them and in a few days they die, only to release a drove of adenoviruses (common cold virus) in us.
but multiply it will, if given a chance,  in you.
it takes three days of drying to kill all!
in the later stages of cancer the tumors are more and more infected with  the common bacteria salmonella, shigella, and staphylococcus aureus.
now, all the regular vinegars have mold in them.
never allow a pet into the bedroom or the dust  will have tapeworm eggs as well as mites.
mix them for added flavor in your dishes.
always use a non-metal salt shaker with a closable lid to keep out  moisture.
when an elderly person has purpura or tia's and the mold source isn't  obvious, you must track it down.
if you have a respiratory illness, move all the clothes in the clothes closet out of your bedroom to a different closet.
the diseases caused by these are not as
get busy with your  dental cleanup.
i was astonished to find thallium in mercury amalgams!
help yourself to lots of butter, whipping cream, whole milk, avocados, and olive oil.
- plastic for partial dentures: flexite(tm).
when these holes are sealed in an air-tight manner the house air no longer is positive for fiberglass.
but the fact that it is not hydrochloric means that it can't kill bacteria and parasites in the stomach like regular hydrochloric acid could.
try several on yourself (bring a small mirror) in the store to see what hardness suits you.
they can see that  you must come near.
dead portions of the liver cannot  regenerate as they otherwise would after a toxic encounter!
figure 89: these are gallstones.
purple patches, like bruises, on the hands or arms of an elderly person  are called purpura, and is also caused by sorghum molds.
all metal must come out, no matter how glossy it looks on the surface.
perhaps you are "spoiled" now by eating un-rotten food.
if your dentist will not follow the necessary procedures, then you must  find one that will.
are  mercury suppliers then providing the dental industry with tainted amalgam?
add 1/2 tsp. of water.
it is a precious  phenomenon.
i find it mostly in  pasta.
next clean the kitchen.
this can be very rewarding if they are still able to communicate and distill their life experience into wisdom for you.
(there are people who say coffee puts them to sleep.
this is an exciting field for you to explore.
but when there is conflict, trust your wisdom.
all disposable diapers i tested had mercury and thallium!
but perhaps this must await the age of robots.
if you can walk into the bathroom blindfolded and know you're in the bathroom, it's not clean enough.
clean greasy pots and pans with a paper towel first.
second, find the "station frequencies" that your particular invader(s) broadcast at.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++going after a tremor problem  in this logical way +++always finds the cause of tremor, whether its a simple  +++short attack or a situation of long standing tremor +++with head shaking and  drooling.
we must marvel at the body's wisdom and capabilities for restoring health.
your body will continue to make human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) and the pathology will remain "indeterminate" - not cancerous but not well, either.
take 4 ornithine capsules with the first sips to make sure you will sleep through the night.
try other  kidney herbs from time to time: shave grass, cedar berries, juniper berries,  butcher's broom, cornsilk.
by craving pure starches, your body could be telling you  about a need to improve your digestion (liver disorders) or to eat and breathe  less toxic things.
they could fill two sheets of paper, one symptom to each line.
while recovering from aids you need 3 tablets three times a day.
and out of the stomach means relief: relief of the pressure on the diaphragm and liver, heartburn, that too-full feeling, and other digestive disturbances sugar your body runs on sugar.
you will be able to  resume your plans for education, professional life, personal relationships,  free of the sword hanging over you.
indeed, they may have been there for ten years.
shake it from time to time.
removing toxins from  the affected organs lets them heal.
wormwood capsules (should contain 200-300 mg of wormwood, see the sources  chapter): day 1: take 1 capsule before supper (with water).
baked or boiled use only cheese sauce, bring your own salt, potatoes don't eat the skin.
keep up your  vigilance.
a  scientific book on this subject was published in 1980.
ask the clinical doctor about it immediately.
low back pain 92 lower abdominal pain 97 stomach pain 98 appendicitis 100 urinary tract pain 101 irritable bowel syndrome(ibs), colitis, and spastic colon 102 crohn's disease 103 central abdominal pain 108 interstitial cystitis 108 uterine pain 109
often the drug can be changed.
they cut their way through your lungs and organs like millions of tiny knives, spreading through your body, since there is no way out for them.
at the end,  turn off heat and add a sprinkle of vitamin c powder.
maybe garlic (fresh) would improve it.
since all vapor rises, they would come back up if you put them in a downstairs garage or basement.
but if you did not watch them filling the jugs, you missed seeing them add a tablespoon of concentrate, from a bottle out of sight, to give it better flavor.
feed the  paste directly by spoon.
it is  safe and without side effects and does not interfere with any treatment you are  now on.
don't try to stretch a gigantic stretch to reach something on a high shelf.
give cayenne capsules (one with each meal).
the starch skin softener gives the smoothness of soap, and prevents the pain of friction.
it is especially hazardous to be aiming a stream of hot asbestos right at your face!
some can do part of the work and refer you to a specialist for the rest.
much appetite is controlled by the liver and brain.
killing your invaders is an easy matter: you simply purchase or build the device that can do that and take the proper herbs.
get rid of toxic body  products and house pollutants.
it is most important not to be fooled by ingredient claims, like "made from organically grown vegetables".
only by putting this power in your  hands will it be safe from government regulation, however well intended.
the most promising discovery in this book is the effectiveness of electricity to kill viruses, bacteria and parasites.
never shake bedding or rugs where the dust will blow back into the house behind you.
apparently they sense each other better and can pull evenly now.
the cause is usually a drug that is being taken  to correct a fast pulse!
our parents were supposed to teach  us in childhood to distinguish between good and bad food.
add vitamin  c (1/8 tsp.) upon opening and wait 10 minutes for it to act.
just sprinkle with cinnamon.
horrors of metal dentistry why are highly toxic metals put in materials for our mouths?
vitamin c powder (ascorbic acid), 1/4 tsp.
it is made from white unbleached flour and is not wrapped in plastic.
shingles is a recurrence of chicken pox.
test the things you dearly love but  can't make 3.
never use up partly molded fruit by making preserves out of it.
the bread is wheat-free, corn-free, stored in freezer.
a probable answer is  that it is so weak that it has to beat faster to keep up with its job of  circulating the blood.
perhaps the price we pay for civilization, like the steer's price, is  simply too high.
a more reasonable philosophy is that there is no tooth worth saving if it  damages your immune system.
as the tiny "colander" holes open up there is freer flow and many more trips to the bathroom result.
it can be quite shocking to see a list of all your symptoms.
consider the luxury of preparing gourmet juices which satisfy your own individual palate instead of the mass-produced, polluted varieties sold at grocery stores.
if you are short on sugar it will turn fat into sugar.
what if the virus never came back?
still, it is so shocking not to be able to run a few steps or sneeze or cough without wetting the underwear, that anything seems better than doing nothing.
no elderly person  would be able to drink more than one cup of milk at a time.
a heart that is beating 100 times per minute, not unusual for a weak old  heart, can be so irregular that it misses every fourth beat.
some of the solvents i have found are just too toxic to be believed!
usually, by the time they are complaining of cold, they have suffered a long  time, feeling too guilty to request a temperature hike.
it's the extensive processing that taints it.
use chlorine-free bleach.
both iv bags and the supplements used in them are polluted with propyl  alcohol, benzene, and wood alcohol.
i find it outstanding, and give it to many ill persons, even when not mentioned in the case histories.
floss has mercury antiseptics (with thallium pollution!).
use unflavored, uncolored feed for them to minimize pollution from processing.
shigellas arrive with dairy foods, too, but prefer the lower intestine as their headquarters.
------------------+-------------------+------------------+-------------------
wait for someone taller to come along and reach it down for you.
see the recipes chapter for homemade substitutes.
it is particularly hazardous since the mold that produces it can actually grow in your intestine in patches.
our body has miraculous powers to clean itself up.
dishes and clothing are primary source of pcbs.
the wagon will wear out  sooner with jerky pulling.
taking in a lot of pollutants hampers the body's ability to kill and get rid of the invaders.
save this water for testing.
if too much is drunk at once, especially on the first day, a stomach ache can develop and a pressure felt in the bladder that is most uncomfortable.
i found all calorie boosters to be  polluted with wood alcohol.
when fresh fruit gets overripe, don't quickly bake it or preserve it.
it took years or decades to get into your present condition.
killing your  invaders does not make you well instantly.
diuresis (urine flow) helps the heart and a stronger heart helps the kidneys.
- 1 gram cholecalciferol (see sources) - 10 cups olive oil mix in a non-metal container.
dose of black  walnut hull tincture extra strength while living with you.
you will need to total 2000 stones before the liver is clean enough to rid you of allergies or bursitis or upper back pains permanently.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++without benzene in your body you can't get aids.
avoiding  benzene will restore your immunity.
but the  greatest social disaster is lowered immunity - aids.
find which ones are toxic and stop using them.
help the adrenal glands do their job of regulating sodium and potassium  chloride by cleaning them up.
use olive oil. - don't use bath oil.
permission is hereby granted to make copies of any  part of this document for non-commercial purposes provided this page with the  original copyright notice is included.
60 tops and bottoms of some  metal crowns.
this is not simply due to their inability to digest them.
this principle is ancient.
the more mold a child eats, inadvertently, in peanut butter, bread, potato  chips, syrups, the less capable the liver is of detoxifying foods.
if you have a source of infection with the intestinal fluke and at the same time a source of benzene, hiv and aids are a logical result.
get busy with your dental cleanup.
in old age it is downright dangerous to be taking many calcium tablets.
they hide under our fingernails when we wash our hands.
for use: in programs calling for extra strength black walnut hull tincture use four times as much of this water based recipe (8 tsp.
when using the "good" dishes or glasses, that haven't been used in a while, wash them first.
sip it on an empty stomach such as  before a meal.
don't call the gas company even though it is free.
you'll back away from cookies and cakes,  especially icing (they taste like you imagine shortening tastes).
even though this kills some "good" with some "bad" bacteria, no harm is done.
coughing during eating is a sign that the diaphragm is irritated (by a hiatal hernia).
choose goods made with baking soda and sold in paper or microwavable pans.
the drinking water should always have a little vitamin c, lemon juice or vinegar added, and 1 tsp.
because you do not know how commercially available extracts were made, and may not be able to test for solvent pollution, it is wisest to make it yourself!
but magic and luck are not really responsible for this.
always add vitamin c powder to a partly used jar to inhibit mold.
you may choose the pace after the sixth day.
increase blood pressure if it is habitually too low.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++the pulse should be around 70  beats per minute and perfectly regular.
however at this point it only yields positive or negative results, it does not quantify.
once a wheelchair has been accepted, the last bit of exercise,  walking, is lost.
if the alcohol burns, dilute it with water.
they are commandeered by metals and other species' genes.
i would like to dedicate this book to all the persons who visited me professionally, from the very first person in 1963, mrs. r. biehl, to the present.
each rosemary and mint, 1/4 lb.
you are picking up and removing highly infectious filth (ascaris and pinworm eggs, pet parasites, "dander" and house mites).
sometimes, the elderly person is aware of the onset of a brain attack; they may see stars or peculiar shapes or lose vision temporarily.
freeze it in plastic sealed containers so the delicate flavor isn't spoiled.
purchase or make a zapper or use somebody's frequency generator (434 khz  to 421 khz giving 3 minutes to each khz).
the elderly long for a brisk gait, laughter, and a picnic at a park again.
set up a system of  rinsing fingers (and fingernails) in 10% grain alcohol in the bathroom.
strain and refrigerate in sterile glass jar.
give yourself the reward of knowing you shared the  pain, fear and silent cry for help.
" dr. hulda regehr clark
it is not a matter of taste or habit.
for dessert, fresh fruit chunks dipped in a homemade honey sauce (honey, water and cinnamon).
killing parasites prepares a feast for these ubiquitous bacteria.
basements invite mold, mice and radon besides  toxic things.
dying alone is the most barbaric of all society's practices.
put the fingernails of the other hand into it.
cook it with all the vegetables you can find.
several supplements are especially good for diabetics: since the rules are always somewhat relaxed when "eating out" a diabetic loved one will badger you to go out with them.
the prison has no walls.
after curing your own diseases, teach your friends and family how it's done.
remove all cans and bottles of "stuff" from the bathroom.
(those same "cold" symptoms can be caused by bacteria, for which i have preliminary evidence of arriving in a similar fashion.)
your metal crowns can be changed to plastic.
you can combine all the leftovers in a  single baggy.
a difference in acid levels makes this possible.
set up a system of rinsing fingers (and fingernails) in 10% grain alcohol in the bathroom.
remember to take paba as a supplement, too (500 mg, one a day).
could the researchers have  accidentally transferred the bacteria from the shell to the inside while they  were testing?)
my evidence comes from a tapeworm stage, cysticercus of diphyllobothrium erinacea, the mites sarcoptes and dermatophagoides, and our own colon bacteria, e. coli.
and minutes later you may feel a stuffy nose, a slight congestion developing, a certain head feeling that is different.
(if your loved one is getting shots, make sure that no isopropyl alcohol is used on the skin beforehand.
([strontium] goes to bones.)
- fresh green vegetables, in perfect condition.
but, this time, the cold reappears later in a different  location.
other states have everclear that is 76.5% alcohol.
for a year: take 2 tsp.
and you have learned which things to avoid for yourself too.
when the salmonellas spread out further to invade the diaphragm around the  sphincter, the diaphragm weakens, and lets a bit of the stomach up through the  hole.
humans still obey their body wisdom about varying their meals.
this is the vitamin that helps detoxify benzene!
remember to throw away imperfect  ones, first.
cats and dogs are both meat eaters.
this sets up the natural cues for emptying.
pour into freezable containers.
fresh parsley has special herbal goodness (high  magnesium, high potassium, diuretic.)
with optimism in one hand and  determination in the other, you too can work the miracles for yourself that my  clients accomplished in the case histories.
if this system  fails you are an easy target for any and all of these invaders.
add vitamin c to newly opened bottle, 1/4 tsp. to retard mold.
they also contain harmful chemicals.
but the wind carries these spores high up into  trees, and even up to the stratosphere.
start with fruit juice.
younger persons can undress for comfort.
therefore anyone can repeat the tests described and verify the data.
honey (can be used on sweet potato).
use food grade hydrogen peroxide or salt water to brush teeth in your  mouth, never toothpaste.
many persons need to gain weight, and with the emphasis in today's society on losing weight, consider yourself lucky in this respect.
mites are inhaled or swallowed or both, just as tapeworm eggs are.
after 2 more hours you may eat.
purchase a variety that has very simple-to-replace cartridges.
zapping kills the escapees, though, to give a bit of relief, and the  bowel program stops the invasive e. coli.
the attitude of the majority of dentists is: whatever the american dental association (ada) says is ok, they will do.
purchase the flip-top cans to avoid eating metal grindings from the can opening process.
alcohol  seems to drive the toxin deeper into your tissues.
check that the plumbing is relatively new  and that no pesticide is being used.
you have to eat moldy food first.
do  not eat one questionable item.
all cancer sufferers have an accumulation in the  cancerous tissue.
be careful to avoid bottled water for preparation.
without the loan of his parasite slide collection many of my discoveries could not have been make, and without his development of metal-free dentistry, many of these patient histories could not have ended happily.
thallium is an experimental teratogen [used to induce birth defects for study].
the sooner you lie down the more stones you will get out.
take one to three a day.
others seem to "bind and gag" them
if "fresh"  isn't possible, choose "frozen" but rinse the chemicals off before  cooking.
a great deal of  research has been done on aflatoxin.
cornstarch (see sources).
so if one person has  brought in a new infection, the whole family is exposed to it in hours via the  dust.
the receptionist should be glad to show you around.
so if an emergency (sudden edema) should arise they  could again be useful.
fry your potatoes in butter, lard or olive oil.
i have seen no side effects at these dosages, even in very sick persons.
on occasion we have provided dosage  recommendations where appropriate.
maybe one part potassium  chloride to two or three parts sodium chloride is a better mixture for you.
it can be detoxified by adding vitamin c but takes longer, about 10 minutes.
cover with a close fitting plastic bag and place in freezer.
a quartered orange (wash the orange before quartering).
applicator: use a plastic coffee stirrer or straw; cut a slit in the end to catch some cotton wool salvaged from a vitamin bottle and twist (cotton swabs, cotton balls and wooden toothpicks are sterilized with mercury which in turn is polluted with thallium).
we should be able to live to 140 years of age.
if you have low immunity (low t-cells, low white blood cell count,  and so forth), immediately go off moldy food suspects.
improve the quality of the air by lowering the pollution level.
you want salt, grease, starch and crunch.
don't buy bread crumbs, use your own.
cooked vegetables broccoli, brussels sprouts, beets, corn, squash, and so forth.
never build a new house using fiberglass for any purpose.
assembling the zapper 23 testing the zapper 27 simplest zapper in the world 28 using the simplest zapper 30 parasites & pollution 31
benzene, which is a solvent and extremely harmful to humans, may not be harmful to fluke parasites living within us.
your chronic yeast infection can go away.
sometimes, the elderly person is aware of the onset of a brain attack;  they may see stars or peculiar shapes or lose vision temporarily.
especially for children, who will be faced  with new viruses and parasites in their lifetimes.
(cheese sauce: add milk, olive oil to a block of cheese.
do not use a prescription variety, since they are polluted with heavy metals; use only the brand in the sources chapter, or a brand that you have tested pure.
vitamin c powder, dissolved in 1 pint water.
dr. clark: there are many lanthanide (rare earth) metals used in dental  plastic.
go extra slow on the first few days,  even though you find it quite tasty, so there is no discomfort (only lots of  bathroom visits).
this is a  fascinating avenue that i have not yet explored.
all the store bought shampoo i tested had propyl alcohol.
[now comes (i) through (43) permissible sterilizing solutions, including several with isopropyl alcohol, like:] (25)
the pulse, blood pressure and blood chemistry is also carefully monitored.
your old one is soaked with toxins from your old toothpaste.
and by observing 2 extra rules: a common mold found on bread, nuts and fruit and in beer, apple cider vinegar and syrups, produces aflatoxin.
vitamin c powder to the top of a  5 lb. bag; it will stick to the pellets as they pour out.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ kill all ancylostomas along with ascaris twice a week.
constipation increases the bacteria level which causes further constipation!
the promise 1  only two health problems 2  be  a health detective 3 the discovery 5
for this reason, i suggest in this book that you go back (actually "forward") to self made products, unprocessed food and a limited number of tested supplements.
close the jar tightly with the lid and shake hard until watery (only fresh grapefruit juice does this).
vitamin c, stirred  in just before serving.
the urine loses its awful odor (no ammonia, acetone and bacteria!) and gets a clear look that shows no sediment.
remember taking  vitamin c (10 grams or more) helps detoxify the molds.
they dare not talk about it because it is  too painful a subject for the loved ones.
a return to linoleum floor covering for  kitchen and bathroom and hardwood for other rooms would be a good step of  progress for a health conscious society.
(we have been told that eggs carry salmonella bacteria.
alcohol and zinc oxide.
this removes aflatoxins.
loved by persons with disturbed sugar regulation.
best of all, hire a crew to remove it all from your home, and replace insulation with blown-in shredded paper or other innocuous substance.
ultimately, the length of time your own white blood cells are bound and  gagged decides how soon you are really cured of your cold.
of course, plastic isn't natural, but it is the best compromise that can be made to restore your mouth.
but multiply it will, if given a chance, in you.
for persons with metal tooth fillings, use chemically pure baking soda or just plain hot water.
if a patient has three mercury amalgam fillings placed in the mouth and a  week later has a kidney problem, will she call the dentist - or the doctor?
the coincidence makes it tempting to believe that one symptom turns into a different one.
i imagine these solvents are just tiny amounts, introduced by sterilizing equipment, the manufacturing process, and adding flavor or color.
this is the potency i used originally.
t-2 toxin t-2 toxin is a mold i  have found in all cases of high blood pressure and kidney disease.
everything can be changed.
if your body has the right conditions (like a low acid stomach) to let them grow you dare not swallow another one!
you can "mix and match" these safe foods.
the main zear sources i have found so far are popcorn, corn chips, and  brown rice.
see the section on brushing teeth (page 532) for details and sources.
the dust in the kitchen falls on  open food and into open containers.
and then they pick up food to eat.
fleas and other vermin in the carpet simply crawl below the wetness level when you wash the carpet.
when the brain fails, death occurs, sometimes in  five minutes.
homeopathic remedy | for these symptoms -------------------+--------------------------------------------------------- aconitum | early cold with fever, headache, hoarse cough allium | clear runny nose with burning of lips or eyes arsenicum | sneezing cold, frontal headache, tickling cough belladonna | high fever cold with flushed face, throbbing head
at one stage these  worms are so tiny that they can slide through the smallest blood vessels.
snip open vitamin e capsules or buy vitamin e oil (see sources).
there are lots more remedies with fascinating symptoms to try to match  with your own.
lipstick 539 face powder 540 blush (face powder in a cake form) 540 recipes for household products 540 floor cleaner 540 furniture duster and window cleaner 540
and don't forget herbs and spices; learn to use them from old cook books.
don't wait for a doctor's appointment to o.k. it.
(it probably came in a can and was cooked in an aluminum pot and is full of aluminized salt.)
but if it doesn't, raise the room temperature.
the cure 363 mold free diet 365 prevention 368 curing symptoms 369 true origins of viruses 370body wisdom and why bad food tastes good 373 salt 373 fats 374 starch 374 sugar 375 dislikes 375 outwit the cravings 377 back to normal 379 toxic food 379 moldy food 381 aflatoxin 382 eradicating aflatoxin 383 zearalenone 384 sterigmatocystin 385 ergot 385 cytochalasin b 387 kojic acid 388 t-2 toxin 388 sorghum molds 388 patulin 388 mold avoidance 389 getting away from grains 392 pets teach health lessons 394easy lifestyle improvements 397 living hand to mouth 397 better laundry habits 398 better kitchen habits 399 better housekeeping 402 windows open
it is  made from white, unbleached flour and is not wrapped in plastic.
long-term toxic effects are of little concern.
+++i observe them both caused by parasites and solvents!
whenever a meat dish is not accepted, substitute  sardines.
mix well 1/4 tsp powdered vitamin c with each new (1 lb.) box of brown sugar.
campylobacter and e. coli, other digestive bacteria, are sometimes the culprits.
don't drink water that has stood in a container for a day.
bacterial invasion causes most of this weakness.
so for convenience sake, keep your meals simple in preparation.
do you also love bread and pasta (more pure starch though very inferior to potatoes)?
i found  traces in cereals, whole grain breads, wines, and honey.
incontinence incontinence plagues most elderly persons.
to use them you read the symptoms listed and take the remedy with  the closest match.
your dentist may recommend crowning teeth to "protect" or  strengthen them.
if your loved one is seated they may be able to handle the brush by themselves, giving them pride in the achievement.
as the tiny "colander" holes open up there is freer flow  and many more trips to the bathroom result.
never again, you  may say, will you give them arsenic and mercury and lead.
to mouth hands do everything.
fix it differently than last time.
u.s.  bread flour is quite free of mold; the mold in our pastas must come from using  inferior quality flour.
this is useful as an after shave lotion.
chewing 295 stomach acid 296 salmonella and shigella 297 other clues 299 liver bile 299 constipation 301 poop your troubles away 301 sugar regulation 302 elderly person's 7 day diabetic diet 302 breakfast 302 lunch 303 dinner 304 supper 307diabetic supplements 309 diabetic eating out 309 extra diet tips for the elderly 309 salt ???
in lemon oil as a residue in production of the oil, at a level not to exceed 6 parts per million.
all change should be brought about slowly and with kindness for animals and humans alike.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++the common cold should not be so common!
the infestation may date back to childhood.
if bizarre  behavior shows up, such as saying mean and cruel things, expressing unusual,  irrational thoughts, feeling emotionless or unreal, try the same diet changes,  but put alcoholic beverages, soy sauces and other sauces, and other grain  derived foods on the "off" list.
it is made from white, unbleached flour and is not wrapped in plastic.
they last many days and free your schedule.
it is volume 10 of a  series called metal ions in biological systems, edited by helmut sigel.
- homemade biscuits or bakery bread with butter.
with your other hand pick up a few drops of water from the faucet.
you may be able to purchase fresh ground  cloves that are already encapsulated; they should be about 500 mg.
are they fluke remains?
this makes plumbing the second greatest hazard.
thank you to linda jerome for nurturing us both with personal interest and patience.
our education about nutritive value of food may  be sound but there are other facts to consider.
they are free to enjoy family and friends  again.
to detoxify the ergot, you simply add vitamin c to the honey as soon as  it arrives from the supermarket.
the ada, however, has a library full of such information.
using a nonfiberglass filter at the furnace is a better idea.
the toxin, patulin, in moldy apples has been carefully studied by scientists.
it is common for patients who have had their metal fillings removed to  have various symptoms go away but, again, they do not tell the dentist.
throw away non-essential health supplements (unless tested) and drugs.
it is better to have most of the day's calories in the middle of the day than at the end.
the nerves originate in the brain where the poison has accumulated.
note that the form of the metal is very important.
it's easy to injure tendons and muscles by pulling or stretching them too  far.
instead of distributing these  from room to room, throw the paper towel away after each room is done.
powdered vitamin c (l/4 tsp.) is another useful  acid if the first two are not effective enough.
apply alcohol first, then the zinc oxide, then dab on cornstarch.
red blood cells, top and side view.
they  are very contagious.
cold symptoms alone can be cured much faster than the cold.
milk has the organic form of calcium, chelated with  lactic acid, and it has the cream to promote absorption.
unfortunately, this  works for 2-year-olds and up.
- a child wants to eat only sweets, everything else must be coaxed down.
if this is too mind boggling, just take it a step at a time: first, learn about the radio-type broadcasting that all living animals do.
if your elderly loved one has not tolerated milk in years, start with the vinegar and honey beverage, or lemon and honey, and be patient until that is accepted.
you may keep canned goods, tools, items that are not chemicals.
or you shake hands with a coughing, sneezing person?
poop your troubles away two bowel movements a day are the minimum necessary for good health.
this need not be stopped (if the pills are not polluted) although taking potassium pills is less useful than salting it in because the adrenals will let any big dose escape anyway.
eat a no-fat breakfast and lunch such as cooked cereal with fruit, fruit juice, bread and preserves or honey (no butter or milk), baked potato or other vegetables with salt only.
cleaning the liver bile ducts is the most powerful procedure that you can do to improve your body's health.
test in a saliva sample for all the  sweetenings used recently (at least an hour ago).
in places like chicago  where you can smell the air as you approach the city, it is wiser to keep your  windows shut.
of course, the extraction process calls for washing out the solvent later.
a fish chowder serves this purpose very well, too.
frozen things don't need to be thawed for testing.
cook your cereal from scratch.
it never leaves the body because the body has no detoxification methods for it!
a consolation is that you will find  a number of bad foods that are not necessarily the tremor causes but which  cause other health problems.
chiggers are really mites.
i hope more dentists acquire his techniques.
clean up the air  according to the general principles of environmental cleanup (see the four  clean-ups chapter, page 409).
the lungs treat them  like toxins to be coughed up or removed by the kidneys and immune system.
no window air conditioner.
if the problem is a drug, don't accept "no, it can't be  changed".
- cooked vegetables with olive oil and salt (pure, see the  sources chapter).
here are some i found: anything made in your own juicer is fine.
health brands were no exception.
even vitamin tablets may smell awful.
sure that's great, but the analysis i trust would be done on the final, cleaned, cooked and packaged product on the shelf.
this is the easiest task because it mostly involves throwing things out.
but  the water effect only works in the early morning.
but it needn't be a stroke, or heart failure, or cancer.
you will know you succeeded when your tummy is flat, there is not a single gurgle, and your mood improves!
in long-ago days, all sheets, towels, table cloths, and underwear were separated and boiled.
(don't burn them or you will make benzopyrenes.)
no, it has artificial flavor and color.
arrange for a hearing test.
none went to the hospital; none even reported pain.
viruses escape into the body daily.
clean windows with vinegar water, too.
leave the house while this is being done.
why risk your health and life on their opinions?
what about exposure to a cold?
elderly people are more easily poisoned than others; their hemorrhages show up as strokes and purple blotches on the skin.
or slice and place in a plastic bag in  the freezer.
salt 1 cup wheat germ (fresh, not defatted) 1/2 cup honey 1/2 cup sunflower seeds, immaculate quality 1/2 cup milk (no need to sterilize, it is being baked) 1/2 cup melted butter 1 cup raisins, rinsed in vitamin c water mix dry ingredients together.
the left lobe is smaller.
supper - well cooked fish or seafood (canned o.k., like sardines, salmon and tuna).
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++remember, all milk gets boiled.
use it up  in a few days, left in its paper bag.
when you decide to take some risks, make sure vitamin c has been  added to the new food and mixed with it thoroughly.
take the pulse daily when a new drug has been added, or when you are working on heart health, without getting your loved one anxious about it.
in this case, leave the cars and lawnmower outside.
chair and bed pads, too,  are chemicalized.
stay seated until any side effect from the alcohol wears off. ->
this does not mean you have also stopped being ill.
dentures can be beautiful.
choose what seems to be the most pressing problem to work on.
i have tried heat and vitamin c, which is also a reducing agent.
kissing on the mouth could reinfect you.
|  ------------------+-------------------+------------------+-------------------  we'll have such a | have a ... rock.
brain  problems (page 278) very closely for more things to check.
first, the enamel is removed from a tooth to prepare for the crown.
most prostate cancer sufferers test  positive.
if by chance, your elderly person hates these and starves themselves to get your sympathy, add a lot more potatoes and rice (never brown) to raise calories.
the heart, especially, benefits by the cooler  air temperature.
yet, if there isn't enough vitamin b12, the dimple isn't put into them to make them doughnut shaped.
store it in a perfectly secure place.
consequently, the hiv virus cannot be checked once it is introduced in the body.
if all this is too much work, make fresh vegetable juice once a week and freeze enough so that you can have a daily nutritious meal just by pouring a glass of it, together with bread and yogurt or milk.
the need to respond to a new stranger energizes the elderly more than your persuasion can.
keep a few berries out of the blender and stir them in quickly with a non-metal spoon before setting the bowl in the freezer.
much less water would flow, which in turn would decrease the ability of the hose to squirt out the marbles.
badly damaged teeth become extractions root canals become extractions braces and implants avoid cavitations need to be surgically cleaned temporary crowns use plastic temporary fillings use duralon(tm)
after-effects also let you know that you did indeed kill  something.
do not buy water from your health food store that runs through a long plastic hose from their bulk tank (i always see cesium picked up from flexible clear plastic).
the biliary tubing is choked with gallstones.
this will clean adrenals too.
the non living things are pollutants in our air, food, dental metal and body products.
don't take them within 15 minutes of food or anything else.
just a few decades ago, many people had summer living quarters that were different from winter living quarters.
this growth factor, ortho-phospho-tyrosine (and possibly, also, epidermal growth factor and insulin-dependent growth factor) really begins your cancer.
a scant cup of cold tap water brought to a boil in glass saucepan.
then make the following mixture: 1/4 tsp.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++only buy fresh bread not  wrapped in plastic.
tear out this page, put it on your refrigerator, and make a copy to stick on your medicine cabinet.
to reduce air exposure, fill the pot as much as possible, without touching the plastic wrap, while still keeping a snug fitting lid.
if you have a water softener, bypass it immediately and replace the metal pipe on the user side of the softener tank.
remember to throw away imperfect ones, first.
having three or four such spreads in the refrigerator will give your children the right perspective on food - homemade is better.
"myelotoxicity toxicity resulting from exogenous estrogens evidence for bimodal mechanism of action".
toxins at either  location (especially food-derived toxins) tell the body to stop eating.
but if insomnia is the rule, not the exception, you need to go after it as a special problem.
cold cereal, hot cereal, bread, crackers, cookies, rice, other grains, fresh fruit, store bought fruit juice, nuts, syrups, pasta, honey?
lime water (calcium hydroxide) or iodine based antiseptics  seem obviously simple methods to accomplish this.
heart disease when the heart is enlarged, the valves don't quite close where they  should, making the work harder for it and weakening it.
endometriosis 109  contraception 112
keep the remainder refrigerated.
point it out explicitly so your loved one can look forward to it, too.
don't buy food that is already in batter.
after it's done, you'll wonder what was so difficult.
another grocery store had a machine that squeezed the oranges while you watched.
never, never use your door between the garage and house.
published in the united states by  promotion publishing 3368f governor drive suite 144 san diego, ca 92122 isbn  1-887314-02-4 other books by dr. clark available from promotion publishing: the  cure for all cancers the cure for hiv and aids 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 acknowledgments i would like to express my gratitude to my son, geoffrey, who always  listened to my "crazy ideas" on sundays, right at supper time.
after you are well again, you may wish to indulge in some philosophy.
this parasite becomes established in the liver when it reacts with  accumulations of a common solvent (which is in many processed foods and  personal products).
being comfortable, knowing you are there to care for them, brings out the best in your elderly person.
56 smooth floors  allow every bit of dust to be removed.
there are numerous other "cold bugs"  left for you to track.
vinegars can simply have vitamin c added and placed in the refrigerator.
(l to r) human intestinal fluke, pancreatic fluke, sheep liver fluke, and human liver fluke.
water, 3 cups honey, 1/2 cup fresh lemon juice or distilled white vinegar, and 1 tsp.
a low red blood cell count (under 4.4 million/mm3) is the  "garden" variety.
if you had cancer, your whole family should be freed of intestinal fluke parasites to protect you!
use the kidney herb recipe-but  only half a dose (so it will take six weeks instead of three to see good  effects).
the adrenals are situated right on top of the kidneys where all toxic things are being excreted.
pantothenic acid: 500 mg., one daily.
similarly, they fail together.
are  evolutionary forces at work preventing this?
tip: encapsulated herbs stay fresher and are more potent.
but why die before our life span  is up?
the walnut is inside, but we will use the whole ball, uncracked, since the active ingredient is in the green outer hull.
it does not matter what kind of fuel is used, the benzopyrenes develop due to lack of shielding between the food and heat source.
your elderly person will have more energy throughout the day and a better mood if sleep was good.
if your aunt, father and brother had diabetes as well as yourself and all were cured after introducing them to this concept and technology, isn't this worthy of notes in your family's history?
the sandwich has lettuce, real butter, and whatever else tastes good (no  cheese, bacon bits or condiments).
also move any car tires and automotive supplies like waxes, oil, transmission fluid, and the spare gas can (even if it is empty) into your garage or discard them.
get your bedtime chores done.
will there never be a way to conquer  them?
it was invented hundreds, if not thousands, +++of years ago, thank you, herbalists !
we may be deriving viruses from all the roundworms, flukes, tapeworms and  bacteria that infect us!
use 2 oz. of the herb (cut) in 3 cups water.
let your family know  you are aiming to reach 100 years in healthy condition.
but if you don't kill  them, as in cold water washes, you are mixing the yeast, parasite eggs,  bacterial spores, and fungus from underwear with all the other clothing you and  your family wear.
i believe that zear, aflatoxin and ergot require special regulations.
do not eat or drink after 2 o'clock.
this is  extremely infectious and hazardous.
it must be at cooking temperature (212 degrees f or 100 degrees c) for 20 minutes.
after a hefty  dose the liver is weakened for a long time - possibly years.
its true nature is still unknown, but it contains freon, other toxins, and  later propyl alcohol!
it does this by impregnating the skin and attracting water, giving the illusion of moist skin.
use unbleached (unbrominated) flour and add 1/2 tsp.
butter must not be  "raw".
none of the old fashioned tortillas (made with just corn, water,  lime) that i tested had any mold, even without propionate added!
porcelain is aluminum oxide with other metals added to get different colors (shades).
not  everybody gets all of these effects.
this gives it plenty of time to react with the  ergot before you eat it.
besides getting digestive improvement you get mental improvement, less depression, less dizziness, less irritability after clearing these up.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ this is part two of the cold story.
start with pristine fruit.
and to learn the true causes of infection and disease.
don't use  her copper-bottomed tea kettle or gold-rimmed cups or "silver".
this is to kill any parasite  stages you pick up from your family, friends, or pets.
if you have many crowns, you should have them all removed as quickly as  possible.
the extra greens can be beet greens, collards, mustard greens or spinach served with a favorite dressing to make sure it's eaten.
if you are on the maintenance parasite program, you are always ready to do the cleanse.
day 5: take s drops in l/2 cup water same as above.
not a single one can be continued.
just open a capsule and season.
day 2: take 2 drops in l/2 cup water same as above.
lice were originally "controlled" by frequent washing, louse combs, and ironing the seams of clothing.
asparagus, potato, raw salad, fowl dish, fruit, water with vinegar and  honey, 1 cup hot milk.
caffeine speeds up the  heart, then the overworked heart has to "take time out" for itself by  missing a beat.
add fresh chopped parsley to the sauce or butter for both green beans and potatoes.
maybe they're letting too much salt (sodium  chloride) leave the body through the kidneys.
baking homemade bread is automated now.
or boil the cloth like our grandparents did.
even if you do not suffer from  insomnia now, you may when you kill parasites.
even the niacin-flush, which  reddens the face and neck is welcomed since it gives a sensation of warmth.
never use a lighter fluid.
and washing and peeling does away with them.
many teeth, up to 20%, may die after being crowned and will need to be extracted.
use whipping cream or butter (both boiled) if you need to  gain weight.
as your thymus recovers your immunity returns.
they get quite fond of these cleanses and will ask to have one.
for the bathroom floor use plain bleach water-follow the label.
you'll  retreat from deep fat fried foods: the dripping grease will just undo the  appetite.
old fashioned radiant heat from radiators or a stove did  not distribute the dust so effectively.
it is important to use this natural rinse to neutralize the shampoo in your eyes.
wood alcohol invites them to eyes and pancreas.
cats and dogs with their monolithic diet get no opportunity to reject food  (except by vomiting or starvation).
the water may be plain if there was vinegar in the soup.
buy everclear(tm) or protec  (potable) alcohol and make a 5% solution (add 1/4 cup of 95% alcohol to a quart  of water).
spraying a grain alcohol solution with lemon peel in  it (it needs to extract for a half hour) on the damp carpet will reach and kill  a lot of these, together with the residual bacteria.
books by hulda regehr clark are available on amazon website: "give me three weeks and your oncologist will cancel your surgery!
the most common culprits are shigella, mercury, thallium and arsenic.
you will need to search several times during  the day to find it in your white blood cells.
these tumors can multiply and enlarge, as in fibrocystic breast disease, all without being malignant.
developing cancer is a chain of events.
ask why it is beating so fast?
never drink water from a glass that has "stood out" all day.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++on the day that the mite stops  beeping, +++the day it dies, adenovirus appears!
| 7 | 3 2 | | | 3 | | | 4 | | | 5 | | | 6 | | | 7 | 2 tsp. | 7 | 3 8 | | | 9 | | | 10 | | | 11 | | | 12 | | | 13 | | | 14 | 2 tsp. | 7 | 3 | | | | and so on | | the only after-effects you may feel are due to bacteria and viruses escaping from dead parasites!
apply liberally with your finger or a lipstick brush.
benzopyrenes are made right in your food by direct flame-heat.
to maple syrup, vinegar, cooked cereal, fruit juice, leftovers.
but in  cancer sufferers it is always concentrated in the cancerous organ, and  facilitates the accumulation of other toxins.
make crisp things in the oven from left over bakery goods.
throw the rest out of your diet treatments mentioned in the industrial research journals are hydrogen peroxide, strong alkali such as lime-water, metabisulfite (a common reducing agent) and high heat.
middle age might begin at 65, old age at 90.
use an electronic device to measure blood pressure, one with a finger cuff, not an arm cuff which can itself induce broken blood vessels.
and the size of the attack depends on whether you recently ate moldy food.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++cookies, cakes and pies: +++bake them from scratch, using unprocessed ingredients.
make yourself a mixture of equal parts of sodium chloride and potassium chloride.
you can test total body acidity by measuring the ph of the morning urine.
don't "hide" your junk food in the refrigerator and lower level cupboards!
would freon react with ozone supplied to your body and thereby become biodegradable?
most solid malignant tumors contain fiberglass or asbestos, another glass-like particle.
you will soon be accustomed to non-lathery soap.
the opinions expressed herein are based on my scientific research and on specific case studies involving my patients.
goldenrod herb works as well as the tincture
hopefully, a barium-free variety will become available soon to remove  this health risk.
too hot and too cold.
for a young person it is a good sign to be as low as 60, provided no drug is involved.
get wheat-free, corn-free bread at a natural foods store.
denture plastic is often toxic, even containing mercury in its composition!
but it is the most primitive of needs, the same as having a  loved one nearby during childbirth.
you take the capsules all in a single dose (you may take a few at a time until they are all gone).
evidently the body absorbs  all the magnesium so eagerly, none is left in the intestine to absorb water and  create diarrhea.
they also require more tooth structure to be removed.
lugol's iodine will also sterilize your hands.
it doesn't take much acid to digest pure starch and get it on its way out  of the stomach.
gather dust with a damp bit of paper towel, put it in a plastic bag.
so go back to your dentist, to search for a hidden infection under one or more of your teeth, or where your teeth once were!
how would you interpret these situations, taken from real life: - an elderly person can't stand butter, wants and enjoys margarine.
but if you scratch it mercilessly, it will take longer.
improvements should not be dismissed lightly.
there is a good chance you will have one that  is not given, because the list is so incomplete.
put a dab of the quick cornstarch softener recipe on top of each wipe as you use it.
the loneliness of the last coma, the  last silence is unspeakable.
they are used to make the heart  beat stronger, not to affect the rate of beating.)
during this time set up a system of sterilizing all dairy products (see  milk, page 425) since this is the source of reinfection.
while borax won't directly heal your skin or complexion, it does replace the agents that are causing damage, so that healing can occur.
getting well after cancer 336 herbal parasite killing program 338 parasite program handy chart 341 maintenance parasite program 341 pet parasite program 343 parasites gone, toxins next 345 watch for bacteria 346 help your family, too 347 aflatoxin 348curing hiv/aids 351 method of treatment 353 benzene polluted products 354 plan for the future 356curing
stop them when you are regular and under 80.
help your family, too if you had cancer, your whole family should be freed of intestinal fluke  parasites to protect you!
choose the right homeopathic remedy for that, and you can chase it  away again.
ask your doctor what an acceptable amount of sodium or potassium bicarbonate is.
mix this one part everclear to nine parts water.
but not with icecream (every flavor has benzene).
use borax  instead of detergent.
within minutes after that, the beeping of the tapeworm stage or  mite is gone and adenovirus can be heard, loud and clear at 393 khz!
we have accumulated them in a lifetime.
don't buy potatoes that show a tint of green on them (the green color is due to scopolamine; it is toxic).
your body wisdom has returned.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ you can use just borax (like 20 mule team borax(tm)) and washing soda (like arm & hammer super washing soda(tm)) for all types of cleaning including your body, laundry, dishes and your house!
if too much is drunk at once,  especially on the first day, a stomach ache can develop and a pressure felt in  the bladder that is most uncomfortable.
parasites come from meats.
keep it in a small pump bottle at the sink.
if the consistency isn't right for you, add water or boil it down further.
if you notice a lump or think you might have cancer, don't rush to see a doctor  first.
your immune system would be able to gobble them all up if they weren't gagged  by the food mold you ate.
spray the air with a mist of 50% grain alcohol before vacuuming.
niacin or niacinamide.
without the loan of his  parasite slide collection many of my discoveries could not have been make, and  without his development of metal-free dentistry, many of these patient  histories could not have ended happily.
major effects are on the nervous  system, skin and cardiovascular tract.
for ten years or more you poisoned your body with freon, fiberglass, asbestos, mercury, lead, copper, etc.
if your stomach is very sensitive, start on half this dose.
add vitamin c (1/8 tsp.) upon opening and wait 10  minutes for it to act.
tyramine is a bacterial by product that is quite toxic; it is rather high in aged cheese, also.
but if your hand still senses cold feet, the thermostat must still go higher.
try to figure out what it is your body craves.
take 50 mg with each meal.
since all foods have both their own and others' molds, there must be  thousands of molds.
this makes four servings, 3/4 cup each.
(barium is described in the merck index as "caution: all water or acid soluble barium compounds are poisonous."
cinnamon and 1/8 tsp.
canned salmon or sardines with wheat free, corn free bread.
keep it in the refrigerator.
the tables are gradually being turned against us in favor of our parasites  and pathogens.
this  includes colognes, scented tissues, soap and shampoo and shaving supplies.
you are not permanently damaged by this large and hungry parasite.
no mexican brands of pasta, like the one pictured (right),  had any molds.
it is for your  convenience only.
after being colonized by fluke stages, the tumors become malignant.
2 selected pathogen  bandwidths.
every time you talk, come quite near to the person's ear and speak loudly.
be careful not to use rubbing alcohol when making the finger  stick (use vodka or grain alcohol).
too 347 aflatoxin 348curing hiv/aids  351 method of treatment 353 benzene polluted products 354 plan for the future
season rice with parsley and  minimal salt and pure herbs like thyme; no msg or mixed seasoning, make butter  sauce.
someone else can bring it in to clean the toilet (only).
by the time you have done this  you may as well have peeled them.
get new ones, made of uncolored methacrylate (see dental cleanup, page 409).
you have to see it being made, but watch carefully: i recently went to a juice bar where they made everything fresh, before your very eyes.
pets, too, can be a source of cancer fluke stages (in their drool).
the syncrometer is more accurate and versatile than the best existing  testing methods.
in fact, it attaches itself so quickly we consider everything it touches as "stained."
killing  parasites and bacterial and viral invaders is fundamental.
they were meant to be an exact shape and size to fit the most oxygen molecules onto them.
after we are infected with it this way, we can give it to each other through  blood, saliva, semen, and breast milk, which means kissing on the mouth, sex,  nursing, and child-bearing.
the methods used to remove metals and infections are technical and complicated.
cough and sneeze into your own clothing; this protects the cougher and sneezer, as well as everybody else.
still, the chance of missing a food culprit is quite high.
it is a  destruction of the pancreas (specifically the islets) by the pancreatic fluke  which is attracted to the pancreas by wood alcohol.
when added to mercury the mercury will stay liquid at lower temperatures.
nickel is used in gold crowns, braces, and children's crowns!
sweet things are reserved for dessert.
resolve to leave it behind.
the good news is that this growth factor,  which is essential for cancer to develop, cannot be made, without the presence  of an abnormal solvent, propyl alcohol (or more exactly, isopropyl alcohol).
these substances will do more harm in the long run than the supplement can make up for in benefits.
if your elderly loved one has not tolerated milk in years, start with the  vinegar and honey beverage, or lemon and honey, and be patient until that is  accepted.
how  to heal 47 the road to wellness
if the excitement of a night out keeps him or her from sleeping use  ornithine and valerian capsules.
514 yankee drink 514 hot vanilla milk 514 red milk 515 c-milk 515 my own soda pop 515 my own super c-pop 516 half and half 516 buttermilk-c 516 food recipes 516 daily foods 517 two granolas 518 peanut butter 519 sweetening and flavoring 519 preserves 520 c dressing 521 cheese sauce 521 sour cream-c 521 yogurt 521 soups 521 fish and seafood recipe 522 baked apples 522 5 minute ice cream 522 seven day sample menu 523 recipes for natural body products 525 borax liquid soap 526 for laundry 526 for dishes 527 in the dishwasher 527
such is the deception of flavorings.
what eliminated them was the cutting of long hair as a societal practice.
by pennington and church, 1985.)
if you  have a source of infection with the intestinal fluke and at the same time a  source of benzene, hiv and aids are a logical result.
it is present on dried peas and beans but it can be detoxified in 5 minutes by adding vitamin c to the water they are soaked in.
when we cough into our hands and  then eat with them, we self-infect.
the timing is critical for success; don't be more than 10 minutes early or late.
in nearly all cases a hole can be found in the ceiling or walls, leading to fiberglass insulated parts of the house.
what eliminated them was a law against sale of used mattresses.
therefore anyone can repeat the  tests described and verify the data.
any shorter time simply warms and cultures the  pathogens and multiplies them.
use a  shaker with a lid that closes.
cooking during the  manufacturing of sorghum syrup kills the mold but its toxic byproducts  (mycotoxins) are still present.
ergot also causes seizures!
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ breakfast - 1 or 2 eggs any style.
commercial detergents and non-soaps are simply not safe.
nuts have their  molds; nuts grown in the ground (peanuts) are especially moldy because the  earth is so full of mold spores.
and the immediate problems are too pressing to allow much contemplation of future problems.
if  you eat peanut butter now, your cold will return with a vengeance.
it is my fervent hope that manufacturers use the new electronic techniques in this book to make surer products than they ever have before.
- cooked vegetables with olive oil and salt (pure, see the sources chapter).
surely it is keeping all your cells healthy so they can coordinate the constant tasks of nourishing themselves, removing their wastes, plus whatever job that cell was meant to do.
eventually they also become infected when metastasis sets in.
(other heart medicines, such as digitoxin, don't have this depressive effect.
my results  show they do much more.
of  course, the milk must be sterile.
if in doubt, leave it out.
cleaning your environment may be the stumbling block.
keep a small notebook to become part of the treasured family legacy as much as photographs do.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ other animals are as parasitized as we, full of flukes and worms and  schistosomes in every imaginable stage, and if the blood carries these, would  we not be eating live parasites if we eat animals in the raw state?
is it in the clothing?
these recommendations should be interpreted as an intent to warn and protect the public, not to provide a statistically significant analysis.
adrenal performance is  improved by taking the kidney herb recipe.
magnesium oxide (300 mg): one a day.
this does not mean you have also  stopped being ill.
the various tapeworm stages emit between 510 and 440 khz.
gather dust with a damp bit of paper towel, put it in a  plastic bag.
i find nearly every breast cancer case shows a too-high estrogen level for years before the cancer is found!
the correct volume for red blood cells is about 90 cubic microns.
or at least add vitamin c (1/8 tsp.
breathing coal fumes during the beginning of the industrial age may have brought the new lung diseases: tuberculosis (tb), and pneumonia.
fat is lighter than water; it makes the stool float.
besides, your skin absorbs it from clothing, it is quite toxic to you, and can cause mental effects.
rather than asking individual questions like these, let's ask only five  general questions and have the assurance that one of them will catch the  culprit.
are high estrogen levels a problem for us?
we were  never meant to eat rotting, spoiling food.
evidently the system of wrapping baked  goods in plastic keeps moisture trapped and starts the molding process.
perhaps you, too, will find the needed natural help when you are  aged and have lost your authority and your way mentally.
they pass into  the intestine, disturbing its function and acid levels.
weak spells are  gone and forgotten.
then add the iodine crystals and fill to the liter mark with water.
of grain alcohol in it and turning it up
- hot water with whipping cream and cinnamon.
of course, the mold is "bad, bad, bad."
add a pinch of potassium chloride.
beta-blockers have some quite undesirable side effects but heart regularity has a higher priority.
yes, with homemade sauce and vitamin c. jell-o(tm)
remember, when you are recovering from a major illness it is essential not to diet to lose weight.
modern shoes, with their deep treads, bring in huge amounts of outdoor filth which settles deep down into the carpets.
sometimes it has a slight odor at first, which may warn you, but most pathogens do not have an odor!
it does not contain pcbs as many commercial and health food varieties do.
there are three common salmonella varieties: salmonella enteriditis, salmonella paratyphi, and salmonella typhimurium (386, 380, 354 khz).
| black walnut hull | wormwood capsule | clove capsule dose | tincture  extra | dose (200-300 mg) | (size 0 or 00) | strength dose | |  ---+---------------------+-----------------------+-------------------------  day|1 time per day, |capsules 1 time per day|capsules 3 times per day, |like  before a meal |on empty stomach |like at mealtime  ---+---------------------+-----------------------+------------------------- 1 |  2 tsp.
sleep is  enhanced by taking magnesium.
after you get it home, you can add cornstarch to it to give it a creamy texture.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ pets are so full of parasites,  you must be quite careful not to deparasitize too quickly.
milk has the organic form of calcium, chelated with lactic acid, and it has the cream to promote absorption.
that is why cancer is so often seen with hiv/aids.
it has been used in back teeth for 10 years.
the government sets standards of  toxicity, but those "standards" change as more research is done (and  more people speak out).
gas heat, gas stoves and gas water heaters are notoriously leaky.
day 4: take 2 capsules before supper.
buy salt that has  magnesium carbonate as its anti-caking agent.
but you may get an allergic reaction from smelling the herb.
was a new animal association taking place  in the early 1900's?
72 detergents with pcbs.
leftover meat dish and beans, stewed tomatoes, squash.
never apply anything to skin that has just been shaved!
try to  get the first morning water before it has run.
all breads i tested had mold if they were in plastic.
cloves: put the smallest pinch possible on their dry food.
your loved one is walking better, needing less sleep, and a "golden age" finally arrives.
the heavy use of cream and butter is offset by no deep fat  fried food and little cheese.
it is injurious to everyone's health, even though it's comforting to bare feet and looks pretty.
yes, but again, only if flavored with safe extracts.
try using other frozen fruits, such as blueberries and cherries.
if this causes them to spring a tiny leak somewhere, a part of the brain will not get its usual oxygen and nourishment.
ninety percent or more of dental offices will not be able to answer any of  the above questions correctly.
the tapeworm stage flies in the dust as eggs, you can trap these by setting out a pint jar with a little water in it.
always cough or sneeze into your clothing or a tissue,  not your hands.
epsom salts 4 tablespoons olive oil half cup (light olive oil is easier to get down)
season rice with parsley and minimal salt and pure herbs like thyme; no msg or mixed seasoning, make butter sauce.
after washing hands, sanitize them too, pouring a bit on one palm and put finger tips of the other hand in it, scratch to get under nails, repeat on other hand.
artificial maple flavor did not have benzene, propyl alcohol or wood alcohol, nor molds.
add raisins that were soaked for 5 minutes  in vitamin c water.
all milk, cream, butter must be sterilized for 10 seconds at full boiling point.
isopropyl alcohol may be present in the following foods under the conditions specified: (a)
it should be about 1 part zinc oxide powder to 3 parts water.
always cough or sneeze into your clothing or a tissue, not your hands.
refrigerate remainder.
doctors, even primitive and natural healers, surround  themselves with mystery as they use herbs or chemicals and incantations or  "prognoses" to help the sick recover.
the water penetrates the nuts, taking the vitamin c with it and  detoxifies them.
search for small screw holes intended for pictures, or electric outlet plates that are missing.
sliced tomatoes or cucumber or other raw vegetables with or without  dressing.
make the easy lifestyle improvements (page  397).
cabbage for salad should be chopped fine enough to be digestible.
pick the right one for your purpose.
because no additional value has been observed.)
it is the pollutants not appearing on the label that pose sinister hazards.
dentures should fit perfectly so the mouth does not  develop sores.
while you are learning, observe the rules perfectly.
cool and add some to the zinc oxide mixture (about equal parts).
it is also a water softener and is the main ingredient in nonchlorine bleach.
eye pencil and shadow have chromium. - toothpaste has benzene, tin, and strontium.
additional seasoning may be pepper and herbs.
do not use extra strength.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ -> you can't clean a liver with living parasites in it.
- lipstick has barium, aluminum, titanium.
in spite of adding mold inhibitors, american bread-stuff is far inferior to mexican baked goods in which i do not find aflatoxin!
sick persons need a 50% alcohol solution.
maybe they're letting too much  potassium chloride through, too.
tremor 312 tremor remedies 313 weakness 317 heart disease 318 heart/kidney relationship 320 diuretics 321 feeling comfortable 322 hearing loss 324 insomnia 326 healthful habits 326 not old yet 328 super longevity 329
they might get well enough to long for a genuine relationship again.
broccoli and onions may burn the tongue with its sulfur-containing acids.
the inside of coat for suited  persons.
then cut away blemishes.
you may have a sensitive stomach or be worried about toxicity or side effects.
some worms are actually pink from absorbing your b12!
if you start a new job that uses a foot, leg, hand or wrist a lot, more than it was used before, even though it's in ordinary use, it can feel injured.
wash all new clothes before wearing.
some purchased parasite and tissue slides.
add 1/2 cup of the mixture to 2 quarts of water.
parsley  water, black walnut, wormwood, and cloves.
try to identify these for your sake as well as your loved one.
every grain has its molds; every fruit has its molds; tea and coffee  plants have their molds; as do all herbs, and vegetables.
today, the medical industry (doctors and their suppliers and insurers) take a significant amount of the worker's earnings.
28 bottling equipment should be rinsed with ethyl (grain) alcohol, not  propyl alcohol or wood alcohol.
add 20 drops of goldenrod tincture and 1 tbs. of glycerin.
hash browns if lightly fried, not deep fried.
by the time you have identified the culprits (probably 20 hours of work) surely you have won the right to make changes.
some mold spores were in it to begin with.
clinical doctors who have no time to really investigate the statistics of  chelation treatments and for whom this is purely competition may feel  antagonistic to these treatments.
figures xiii preface xvii
just  cook two or three vegetables for lunch and eat them with butter and salt or  homemade sauces.
add your own (non-aluminum) salt  and a pinch of vitamin c before cooking.
let warm to room temperature, and sip between meals, making it last until supper.
wax and debris accumulate behind the aid because the channel is stopped up.
the damp carpet lets it spread evenly and reach all the crevices.
the peripheral nervous system can be severely affected with dying-back of the longest sensory and motor fibers.
wash the body parts daily, around the urinary and rectal outlet, using  borax water.
could the tapeworms of these animals give us a tapeworm stage that hosts polio  virus?
evidently the body absorbs all the magnesium so eagerly, none is left in the intestine to absorb water and create diarrhea.
to test it, place it in a plastic bag, wet it thoroughly and search from 510 khz downward, one khz at a time.
now it has molds which cause platelet destruction, (purpuric spots)  internal bleeding, and immune failure.
parasites and pollution brought you the bad things.
fleas and other vermin in the carpet simply crawl below the wetness level  when you wash the carpet.
will some of us survive to pass on our "better" genes to a new population of cancer-resistant, aids-resistant, alzheimer's-resistant, etc.-resistant humans?
dose: each morning, pour together 3/4 cup of the root mixture and 1/2 cup parsley water, filling a large mug.
even though this kills some  "good" with some "bad" bacteria, no harm is done.
if drinking water starts the  coughing, omit it at the beginning of meals.
if you eat cheese it will add salmonella to your illness and you may develop a fever.
if a patient has three mercury amalgam fillings placed in the mouth and a week later has a kidney problem, will she call the dentist - or the doctor?
you  will be glad you switched.
it is a human parasite although it can also parasitize other  species.
the drugs responsible are usually "beta  blockers", used for the purpose of smoothing out the heart beat, that is,  making it regular.
it is certain to be polluted with propyl alcohol or wood alcohol.
afterward, continue the programs at one fourth dosage for half a year.
when you find a beverage that is free of propyl alcohol, it may have other  pollutants.
after shaves 537 personal lubricants 537
canned meat is safe from parasites but may  have smoke flavoring added (contains benzopy rene) or nitrates.
both  of these are easily picked up through your skin.
a concoction is made for them that is called "complete nutrition" and we feed this meal after meal, day after day, a most unnatural situation.
it may also have worsened alcohol  addiction (beryllium toxicity).
fresh pink grapefruit 1 large or 2 small, enough to squeeze 2/3 to 3/4 cup juice ornithine 4 to 8, to be sure you can sleep.
after your pets have stopped eating propyl alcohol polluted food and are not getting propyl alcohol in their shampoos, there is no way they can get cancer.
don't buy a house that has a "lower level" built into the earth.
another strategy is to use a fresh cloth or sponge each day, putting the used one to dry until laundry day.
the elderly long for a brisk gait, laughter, and a picnic  at a park again.
dizziness is another plague of the elderly, keeping them from going shopping, getting to church and even from getting around their own homes.
these are minimum dosages.
combining several of these makes them more effective.
orange blossom  honey.
store bought jams are sweeter and brighter in color but strangely low in flavor and often indistinguishable from each other.
common problems that plague the aged are brain problems, incontinence, bad  digestion, diabetes, tremor, weakness, feeling cold, sensitivity to noise,  losing the sense of taste and smell, hearing loss, insomnia, kidney and heart  failure.
do not be swayed by arguments that plastic is not as strong as metal.
salmonellas dig deep into the stomach wall, safe from antibiotics  and stomach acid and aren't washed away with the food.
rinse the walnuts carefully, put them in the pot, and cover with the alcohol.
health is feeling great, feeling  like laughing at funny things.
conditions like hesitant speech,  shuffling walk, getting up stiffly and slowly from a chair.
the worst possible habit is to wipe a child's face and hands with the kitchen cloth.
although pvc is a toxic substance, amazingly, the water is free of pvc in three weeks!
if they do, they probably don't have enough experience in the use of non-metal composites.)
your kidneys with the adrenal glands sitting like hats on top.
vegetarian sandwiches but no soy products (too processed).
please feel free  to consult with your physician or other health care provider.
leave them sitting at the table a while, then walk a bit, to get the food down lower.
the more you eat the more you crave because chromium is being used up as you eat it and yet it is necessary to utilize more sugar.
or use paper plates and plastic (not styrofoam) cups.
however, i have not tested enough molasses for solvents and you cannot  risk these.)
try salads, an apple, raw sunflower seeds (beware of moldy seeds, nuts and dried fruit).
why would you not expect to be sick with these solvents in your daily food?
don't use regular drug store variety hydrogen peroxide because it contains toxic additives.
if the problem is a drug, don't accept "no, it can't be changed".
there is  very little cheese (it must always be boiled in a sauce to sterilize).
kill salmonellas daily for a month by taking lugol's iodine (6 drops in a half cup water, after meals and bedtime, see recipes).
perhaps it belongs to many other parasites, as well.
maybe they have something in them that helps detoxify  wood alcohol, since bilberry leaves are good for eyes, too.
they dare not talk about it because it is too painful a subject for the loved ones.
- i have seen rocks sold as "aluminum-free natural deodorant".
the computer age would make  communication possible.
do this once a week.
viruses live inside your  cells while they reproduce.
if so, it must be lighter than water and contain fat  or a great deal of undigested material.
store a bag full in the freezer to take on car trips.
powdered vitamin c with each meal (500 mg).
copper from water pipes.
bacteria and viruses from coughing and sneezing into your hands!
given half a chance your body will throw the rascals out and restore order in you tissues.
room air conditioners may have a fiberglass filter!
this is used in making tortillas.
orange roughy fish with milk, half n' half butter and preserve fresh green beans with or whipping cream sandwich butter 1 cup fresh squeezed soup baked potato with sour fruit juice milk cream-c topping or water water fresh chives milk pie (homemade)
the only exception should be for serious symptoms, like swelling, colitis, flu, or chronic diarrhea.
don't buy things made with baking powder (it has aluminum) or baked in aluminum pans.
potassium by prescription is often used by clinicians to conserve  body potassium during diuretic use.
in my testing, aflatoxin can be cleared with vitamin c but sterig and others need to be treated with a high temperature as well.
the  cloth or sponge recolonizes the kitchen and dining room table several times a  day.
permission is hereby granted to make copies of any part of this document for non-commercial purposes provided that this page with the original copyright notice is included.
many problems can be disinherited.
do this for a week before  starting the cloves.
it works because the rock is made of magnesium-aluminum-silicate.
in animal  experiments reported by scientists, toxicity from mold usually lasted three  weeks.
air filters may remove some of the toxic elements but by  blowing the air (and dust) around vigorously the remaining toxins are made much  more vicious in their effect.
and that we all lead shortened lives.
after mixing, store it in the original containers (re-label them) to prevent caking.
after being off them for a while, they  become more potent again.
these get wiped with a cloth or sponge and then applied to dishes.
| nice  bay?" | wants an answer.
parasites as varied as tapeworm stages and mites.
milk is too valuable to avoid: there are many unwanted chemicals in most brands of milk, but it is solvent-free, mold-free and very nutritious.
shorter than merely  zapping.
the results of a hearing test, as it is told by a salesperson, is much more persuasive than you can be.
baking and browning is never done above 425 degrees f. this is your safety feature.
this presses the stomach upward and the food up, too.
the benefits of a liver cleanse will last longer if valerian herb is taken  the day after the cleanse and from then forward.
conveniences vs. tremor is no  contest.
we can see that  chromium and nickel compounds are the most carcinogenic metals.
the water should not be cold and should have nothing added to make it a beverage.
dying alone is the most  barbaric of all society's practices.
there should not be!
- a young man with serious mental illness drinks half a gallon of "mellow yellow"(tm) a day.
its last major use, rat poison, was banned in the 1970s.
as the stones grow and become more numerous the back pressure on the liver causes it to make less bile.
all of the toxins come from a civilized lifestyle.
spraying with just plain water is nearly as good!
if you can listen and be interested in their distillations or their ramblings their longing for relationship will be fulfilled.
it is a destruction of the pancreas (specifically the islets) by the pancreatic fluke which is attracted to the pancreas by wood alcohol.
killing your invaders does not make you well instantly.
it is tempting to leave some of them out.
fill the bottle to the top with cold water.
getting well after cancer 336 herbal  parasite killing program 338 parasite program handy chart 341 maintenance  parasite program 341 pet parasite program 343 parasites gone, toxins next 345  watch for bacteria 346 help your family,
if your loved one responds well to a few hours of oxygen, you have proof of the problem.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ this has already been studied extensively for a number of food molds.
the baby's liver, in its wisdom, does not want the baby to eat what it can't properly digest.
even interest in sex returns so watch out!
third, learn how to "jam" their frequency until they expire: it takes only minutes!
a healthy mouth has no odor!
you take the capsules all in a single dose (you may  take a few at a time until they are all gone).
your body can become pregnant - when you had already given up.
in the absence of this protection, use dryer heat to do your sterilizing.
things that will freeze, such as latex paint, you may as well discard.
try to make the consistency the same as your brand name product, and you can even put it back in your brand name container.
freeze it in plastic sealed containers so  the delicate flavor isn't spoiled.
your regular oven  is thermostated so that it cannot go higher than it states.
when they believe in you, it makes your task more rewarding.
12 do not  use any commercial personal products, the risk of pollution is too great.
black walnut hull tincture extra strength (see the recipes chapter, page  543): day 1: (this is the day you begin; start the same day you receive it)
do not choose chocolate milk.
ask a pharmacist to make a 1% hcl solution and use 10 drops  of it in a beverage at mealtime once a day.
toothpaste has toxic metals (tin, fluoride, strontium)  besides benzene pollution.
the morning cup of water, drunk at the  bedside has the magical ability to move the bowels.
from "toxigenic fungi", vol 7, edited by h. kurata and y. ueno, co-published by kodansha ltd, tokyo and elsevier science publishers b. v., amsterdam, 1984, page 199.)
take an attitude of over compliance, not "getting away" with  as much as possible.
kill them and go off commercial beverages that may contain wood alcohol.
bring respect back for your loyal  genes that bring you hair color, and texture, not hair loss.
illness and pain are not.
but happily, at your next doctor  visits she or he will be removing drugs, not adding them.
curing hiv/aids hiv and aids disease are very similar to cancer.
provide vodka yourself in a small pocket flask or 70% grain alcohol for this  purpose.
choose what seems to be the most pressing problem to work  on.
as long as e. coli stays dutifully in your colon, no adenovirus is seen.
+++it could be fatal.
banana or chopped (from flip top can) broccoli, carrots, fruit with cream 1/2 cup vegetable juice cabbage, in olive oil milk milk and butter water water bread and butter pie (optional) milk water remember, take vitamin c and b-complex with each meal.
cook your food from scratch.
ask for  the panoramic x-ray rather than the usual series of 14 to 16 small x-rays  (called full mouth series).
equal parts fresh carrot juice (use a juicer) and sterilized milk.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ after killing the parasite and its stages the hiv virus will be gone in 2  hours, almost as quickly as the cancer marker, orthophospho-tyrosine.
never again, cobalt  and asbestos and freon.
this leads to pancreas damage, invites pancreatic fluke infestation, and  typically results in diabetes.
go slowly so the pet can learn to eat all of it.
you must wait two years after you are recovered to try to lose weight.
you may be keeping them glossy by the constant polishing action of your toothpaste.
if they start the discussion, you end it.
but for the  elderly it does not reflect a strong athletic heart beat.
when blood is properly oxygenated it takes on a bright red color, unoxygenated blood is more purple.
use both vinegar and lemon approaches to rid yourself of ants.
the food will sink lower if some of it can leave the stomach at the lower pyloric end.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ in cases of parkinson's disease i often find the bacterium clostridium tetani, well known for causing stiffness.
this gives the water a "sweet and sour" flavor, enough to make it interesting throughout the meal.
immediately give a 100 mg tablet of niacin, 1 gram vitamin c, and a b-complex in this order of importance.
soon you won't need it.
i have only  followed adenovirus behavior.
you'll hold your nose at all seeds and nuts and most  flour (they smell so rancid).
every step on the carpet sends up  a puff of dust.
use the recipes in this book to make your own.
everything in the bathroom pollutes the air of the whole house.
your elderly person will have  more energy throughout the day and a better mood if sleep was good.
if all this improvement doesn't warm up their feet or hands (feel them yourself) put extra socks on.
bread and milk rounds it out, plus fruit (not canned or  frozen).
grilled food has benzopyrenes as do hot dogs and "smoke flavored" foods.
they may be  harboring a few parasite stages in +++their intestinal tract without having  symptoms.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ change brands every time you shop to prevent the same pollutants from building up in your body.
fried or baked fish is served with lemon or lime.
let your children eat the polluted foods  that friends and restaurants serve (but not rare-cooked meats) so they can  experience the difference.
for people with a metal filling in every tooth, or for the extraction of all teeth (plus dentures), it may be up to $3,000 (or more in some places).
warming up their feet might have the effect of  warming up hands, too.
(if your plumbing is corroding, not even filters are a good  idea-you would have to change them every week!)
nuts have their molds; nuts grown in the ground (peanuts) are especially moldy because the earth is so full of mold spores.
aflatoxin is a  substance made by mold; bread starts to mold on the grocery store shelf.
your body will  continue to make human chorionic gonadotropin (hcg) and the pathology will  remain "indeterminate" - not cancerous but not well, either.
7 cups rolled oats (old fashioned, not quick) 1 tsp.
to the store bought container you are consuming.
use herbs and aluminum-free salt to season.
they are not linked to pains other than gallbladder attacks.
in my testing,  aflatoxin can be cleared with vitamin c but sterig and others need to be  treated with a high temperature as well.
every wheelchair patient i tested was positive for  thallium!
baby wipes 538 people wipes 538 recipes for natural cosmetics 539 eye liner and eyebrow pencil 539
wash the body parts daily, around the urinary and rectal outlet, using borax water.
the only after-effects you may feel are due to bacteria and viruses
store unused starch mixture in the refrigerator.
never, never drink or cook with the water from your hot water faucet.
so zapping is an imperfect solution.
fill size 00 capsules with fresh ground cloves; if this size is not available, use size
these  heart parasites may not cause any pains, yet disturb the rhythm or the pulse of  the heart and cause it to enlarge.
unfortunately, killing the ascaris does not cure shingles.
the various molds i have tested had these emitting frequencies: 77, 88, 100, 126, 133, 177, 181, 188, 232, 242, 277, 288, 295 khz.
no government agency can test for all of these mycotoxins in all of our foods.
narrowing the blood vessels in the brain can lead to stroke.
if it is less than one year old, move it into the garage until you are well.
at the very center of each stone is found a clump of bacteria, according to scientists, suggesting a dead bit of parasite might have started the stone forming.
when water "doesn't taste good," there is probably a valid  reason.
at that time, we can theorize that a new large  parasite was making its appearance.
just a few decades ago, many people had summer living quarters that were  different from winter living quarters.
perhaps ascaris facilitates it's release, or simply suppresses the immune  system in a way that allows it to suddenly multiply.
first it molds; then bacterial action sets in.
low  immunity in the mouth permits throat infections to be chronic.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ (strawberry) use 2 half pints of whipping cream, previously boiled, 1 package of frozen strawberries (about 10 oz.), and l/2 cup clover honey.
no doubt, the last thing you do before leaving the kitchen is squeeze it  dry with your hands.
industrial poisoning is  reported to have caused discoloration of the hair (which later falls out),  joint pain, loss of appetite, fatigue, severe pain in the calves of the legs,  albuminuria, eosinophilia, lymphocytosis and optic neuritis followed by  atrophy.
step into a new world.
time-release niacin tablet (see the sources chapter) is a good  choice.
(luster, m.l., boorman, g.a., korach, k.s., dieter, m.p., and hong, l. 1984.
nothing should be more than six months old.
vinegar is used instead of calcium propionate in some breads but, again, the plastic ruins its effectiveness.
that we humans don't have hundreds of different maladies and disturbances.
370body wisdom and why bad food tastes good 373 salt 373 fats 374  starch 374 sugar 375 dislikes 375 outwit the cravings 377 back to normal 379  toxic food 379 moldy food 381 aflatoxin 382 eradicating aflatoxin 383  zearalenone 384 sterigmatocystin 385 ergot 385 cytochalasin b 387 kojic acid  388 t-2 toxin 388 sorghum molds 388 patulin 388 mold avoidance 389 getting away  from grains 392 pets teach health lessons 394easy lifestyle improvements 397  living hand to mouth 397 better laundry habits 398 better kitchen habits 399  better housekeeping 402 windows open or closed?
the information that comes with dental supplies does not list  them either.
sip it on an empty stomach such as before a meal.
fish, green beans, potatoes, other greens, fruit, hot milk, water.
when tablets cannot be swallowed; use magnesium  oxide powder (see the sources chapter).
a concoction is made for them that is called "complete  nutrition" and we feed this meal after meal, day after day, a most  unnatural situation.
we were meant to be repelled by the  bad odor, the bad appearance, the bad taste.
it is not  necessary to zap the virus itself at 365 khz.
+++without the intestinal fluke in your body you can't get  hiv.
take ornithine as needed.
no matter how much your loved one admonishes you to go about your business, you will know when you share the final minute that your presence helped.
the good news is that it need not be you who attends your loved one every  minute of the last week.
eat lots of fresh fruits and vegetables.
it still qualifies as "fresh squeezed 100% orange juice," but thanks to that concentrate it now has toluene and xylene in it!
use lugol's (see recipes) and the bowel program  (page 546) to clear them up.
it is just a presence that counts.
if you have cancer or are ill, no one in the house should use an unsafe hair dryer.
but as soon as any cross the colon wall to invade your body, your white blood cells pounce on them.
serve with fresh lemon and herbs.
hopefully your family and friends will jump to your assistance.
walking is not merely walking about the house or shopping.
old age is not a time when you "no longer need milk".
good advice is to return to old fashioned home cooking: with its flour and butter, lard and cream, homemade pasta, olive oil and soup, coarse cereal grains and plain fruit.
from "toxigenic  fungi", vol 7, edited by h. kurata and y. ueno, co-published by kodansha  ltd, tokyo and elsevier science publishers b. v., amsterdam, 1984, page 199.)
add an equal amount of clover honey to the fruit.
fruit juice: fresh squeezed only.
but, this time, the cold reappears later in a different location.
don't be more than 15 minutes late.
it inhibits scalp bacteria and stops flaking and itching.
if one does, the safest course is to avoid all bottles of that product entirely, which is what i repeatedly advise.
what if you could turn a dial and in 3 minutes kill every coxsackie virus in your child's body?
and toxins: unnatural chemicals that we unknowingly inhale or consume.
88 make a bottle of borax liquid to fill your soap  dispensers and shampoo bottle.
nickel is used  in gold crowns, braces, and children's crowns!
in this way "nests" of infection are formed, forever supplying the body with fresh bacteria.
some cysticercus varieties (types) have multiple heads.
get rid of their breeding places: beds, cloth covered chairs and soft  sofas.
but the fact  that it is not hydrochloric means that it can't kill bacteria and parasites in  the stomach like regular hydrochloric acid could.
after day 10: take 3 capsules all together once a week  forever as in the maintenance parasite program.
zap a third time for seven minutes to kill the last viruses.
dedication i would like to dedicate this book to all the persons who visited me  professionally, from the very first person in 1963, mrs. r. biehl, to the  present.
blood pressure increase blood pressure if it is habitually too low.
sterilize your hands after bathroom use and before meals. ->
we add dust, picking up parasite  eggs and stages.
liver bile bile is necessary for digestion.
wisdom comes with age.
hcl as a tablet ("betaine hcl") is available but doesn't have enough hcl in it.
the good news is that it need not be you who attends your loved one every minute of the last week.
as soon as you find you are hiv positive, don't panic.
they pick it up daily and have thirty days to develop it and give it to others between treatments.
this is the best arrangement.
if the stool floats or is orangish in color prepare your elderly person  for a liver cleanse (page 552) to clear a bile duct of obstruction.
won't you catch one if you're in a roomful  of coughing, sneezing people?
every disease is an example of the same process.
by n. irving sax and richard j. lewis sr., van nostrand, reinhold n.y.  1989.)
use about 1/3 of the mix each day.
cut the  drug dosage in half immediately.
- 1 oz fennel seed (crushed or powdered is fine) - 3 cups cold tap water boil water, pour over herb.
buy everclear(tm) or protec (potable) alcohol and make a 5% solution (add 1/4 cup of 95% alcohol to a quart of water).
blood pressures below 110 may prevent strokes but ruin the quality of life.
the nature of pollution is such that one bottle might be safe, while another of the same brand is not.
take out all bridge work or partials made of metal and  never put them back in.
so anything hiding in them will not be harmed by the electric current either.
72  detergents with pcbs.
maybe only the  respiratory organs do; maybe they start to replicate in the organ where they  emerge, such as the liver and then get to the respiratory tract.
it takes longer to detoxify both the benzene and alcohol.
dizziness is another plague of the elderly, keeping them from going shopping,  getting to church and even from getting around their own homes.
| hoop for | | | embroidery for a | | | long time.
nothing, not even brain improvement, impresses and encourages an  elderly person as much as seeing the incontinence lessen.
when house drafts pull it into the air you will inhale them.
the  blowing air not only chills them, but brings filth in dust that blows in the  air currents.
the real reason why nothing, not even surgery, is permanent is that the  support bands are weak.
don't have a basement  where you stockpile toxic items.
if you have been suffering from a chronic infection or have cancer, or  aids, learn to build the electronic device that will stop it immediately.
purchase paba (see sources) in 500 mg tablet form.
not only mercury, but all metal needs to be  banned.
i better say | | | i don't know.
perhaps you have pancreatic flukes upsetting your sugar  regulation.
acute poisoning results in swelling of the feet and legs, arthralgia, vomiting, insomnia, hyperesthesia and paresthesia [numbness] of the hands and feet, mental confusion, polyneuritis with severe pains in the legs and loins, partial paralysis of the legs with reaction of degeneration, angina-like pains, nephritis, wasting and weakness, and lymphocytosis and eosinophilia.
sugar regulation is very complex, but these two approaches help most  of the time.
adding water to the diet could be the most difficult of tasks if your elderly loved one "doesn't like it".
to test clothing (laundry) use a bit of it, (such as a sock) rolled up tightly.
use her wooden spoons, glass glasses, and plain dishes, her wooden and straw bowls and enamel pots and pans.
search your memory for the new things that happened in the last two weeks.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++during the day, set the sponge on end to start drying and +++slow down culturing.
dr. jerome: it is quite all right to have temporary crowns placed on all teeth that need them in the first visit.
this fills the house with tiny particles of glass to be breathed by everybody.
most companies do offer this but don't tell the customer because of the dreadful amount of time it would take if everybody took advantage of it.
after one week increase dose to 1/2 cup.
it is not, of course, usually on the label.
health is feeling grateful to be alive.
14 tooth numbering  system.
in the later stages of cancer the tumors are more and more infected with the common bacteria salmonella, shigella, and staphylococcus aureus.
brown sugar is also polluted with sorghum molds, but fortunately you can detoxify this mold with vitamin c as usual.
then wash your hands or you may accidentally eat some.
this will let wastes accumulate, all the longer for  bacteria to thrive on them.
29 tight diapers are a modern atrocity, forcing mercury and thallium into the baby's sponge-like skin.
and is therefore antibacterial.
do not keep new foam furniture in the house.
you don't need all of those products you see in commercials for each special task!
it does take 3 or 4 hours to make a soup from scratch.
certainly, it is  enough to cause mental effects in an elderly person.
in a few minutes you can pour off the clear part into dispenser bottles.
many teeth, up to 20%, may die after being  crowned and will need to be extracted.
we are trapped in our dwellings.
they are good for the health anyway.
such toxins lower the immunity of the  mouth and throat and stomach since it all flows down into the stomach.
the moisture acts to incubate mold spores and overwhelms the inhibitor.
add  finely chopped apples (peeled) and a few apple seeds and whipping cream for the  dressing.
if your situation is +++extra difficult, you will at least improve it and stop +++its progression.
missing two beats in a row certainly can produce a weak or  "sinking" spell.
remove all chemicals that are in cans, bottles or buckets.
but even borax is not natural to your body and it is therefore wise to use as little as necessary.
+++i observe them  both caused by parasites and solvents!
the  significance of the mold is that it lowers your immunity, specifically and  generally.
if you are following your progress with the syncrometer, you will see that freon now appears in the liver for the first time.
(thulium and ytterbium have been studied for their tumor-seeking ability.
wash it the same way and keep it in the cupboard.
it stays in the stomach.
with the heart regular again, it will be much stronger, too, since it  doesn't have to work against itself.
discussing it with your loved one may do more harm than good.
air filters may remove some of the toxic elements but by blowing the air (and dust) around vigorously the remaining toxins are made much more vicious in their effect.
every brand of popcorn and corn chips i tested had  zearalenone contamination.
at these locations, bowel bacteria, e. coli and shigella, can climb through the colon wall to invade you.
but something recent may have aggravated them, so they now can enter more easily into the blood and brain.
if potatoes weren't heavily sprayed they'd be sprouting in the stores.
562 preface the sick have been held hostage for their money or intangible assets since  time immemorial.
remember, there is a consolation for doing all this work.
now that water and wastes (urea and uric acid and other acids) can leave the  body quickly through more holes, it takes less pressure from the heart to get  blood pushed through the kidneys.
when fat isn't absorbed, it stays in the intestine.
49 pain from toe to head 51 searching for bacteria 53
breakfast lunch dinner day 1 granola and honey fresh ground peanut
just stopping drinking the coffee, decaf, iced tea and carbonated beverages that are served, and switching to the recipes in this book could get them off some of their medicines.
sanitizing solutions.
dose of black walnut  hull tincture extra strength.
even using one of these, like your favorite shampoo or bottled water, will result in failure.
so the first thing to do is improve sanitation.
however, i have not tested enough molasses for solvents and you cannot risk these.)
but the next time, have your answer ready.
because it looks like sugar keep it in the garage to prevent accidental poisoning.)
if your elderly loved one can't eat all this, make  sure there are no snacks consumed between meals that are forbidden.
problems 157 tooth ache 158 throat pain 159 eye pain 160 macular degeneration  162 headache and migraines 162 earache 168 ear noises
this takes up a large part of any person's diet, even in a single meal.
sweetening and flavoring 519 preserves 520 c dressing 521 cheese  sauce 521 sour cream-c 521 yogurt 521 soups 521 fish and seafood recipe 522
only one more thing is needed to bring about an avalanche of reproduction, so that hundreds of little larvae turn into hundreds more in a short time: a growth factor.
peanut butter (store bought) and other nut butters can't be detoxified by adding vitamin c due to the mixing problem, even if you stir it in thoroughly.
it has a fascinating chapter on the leukemias by two scientists from the academy of sciences of the ussr, e. l. andronikashvili and l. mosulishvili.
boiling  for many minutes at a higher temperature or baking does kill them (but not  ergot, another mold) and also destroys aflatoxin they produced and left in the  food.
get them incontinence pants, get regular taxi service.
calcium propionate is added to bread-stuff to  inhibit molding.
sometimes they will describe "spells" of weakness.
where do your fingers go?
gone was all the accumulated infectious  dust of half a year of habitation.
always wash hands  after petting an animal! -
each red blood cell is shaped like a doughnut without the hole.
assembling the zapper 23 testing the zapper 27 simplest zapper
mix thoroughly, at least 15 minutes, until it looks like thick pudding.
there are over half a dozen varieties of gallstones, most of which have cholesterol crystals in them.
i learned so much from each of you and i appreciate your confidence, your intelligence and your reluctance to be defeated.
the flush is reduced by giving cold liquids.
the best advice to stop a cold is to: ++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++in five or six hours your cold could be gone.
five or six hours at most.
if  they start the discussion, you end it.
when death approaches the important thing is simply to be there.
maybe they're letting too much salt (sodium chloride) leave the body through the kidneys.
parsley flakes and dried parsley herb do not work.
here are four herbs that can each bring on your period.
the cysts shrink and are simply gone.
those of parasites, bacteria, and viruses.
+++ +++aids stands for acquired immune deficiency  syndrome.
use aluminum-free sea salt, and make sure the salt is sterilized by heating five minutes at 400 degrees f in a glass pie plate to kill mold.
37 water pitcher with  filter.
the fascinating story of how we really "catch" a cold kept me spellbound for a year.
once you have stopped using it, the last remnants leave your body within three days.
(see sources for sodium alginate, vegetable glycerin and apricot kernel oil.
(call the american dental association at (800) 621-8099 (illinois (800)  572-8309, alaska or hawaii (800) 621-3291).
see the section on brushing teeth (page 532) for  details and sources.
wash your hands after handling raw meat or eggs.
your genes brought you the good things about your ancestors, not the bad things.
| 7 | 3 2 | | | 3 | | | 4 | | | 5 | | | 6 | | | 7 | 2 tsp. | 7 | 3 8 | |  | 9 | | | 10 | | | 11 | | | 12 | | | 13 | | | 14 | 2 tsp. | 7 | 3 | | | | and  so on | |
(this doesn't work for all poisons.)
it isn't normal for them.
make chips from your homemade soap cake.
your  own immune system is the most powerful cold killer, so stop handicapping it.
salmonellas dig deep into the stomach wall, safe from antibiotics and stomach acid and aren't washed away with the food.
always add a bit of lemon to give it zip.
outside are new ideas that invite you to step over  and escape your prison.
the ureters  lead to the bladder.
if the cold has moved or won't budge, try  another set of three after an hour.
you can't breath the industrial "soup" all day and night and expect to stay healthy.
how many of us  will die trying?
with optimism in one hand and determination in the other, you too can work the miracles for yourself that my clients accomplished in the case histories.
the government sets standards of toxicity, but those "standards" change as more research is done (and more people speak out).
you can't, and wouldn't want to, kill all the bacteria in your  bowel.
keep moldy fruit out  of the refrigerator where the spores can spread.
if the water comes from a well, consider changing the well-pipe to pvc to get rid of iron.
| black walnut hull | wormwood capsule | clove capsule dose | tincture extra | dose (200-300 mg) | (size 0 or 00) | strength dose | | ---+---------------------+-----------------------+------------------------- day|1 time per day, |capsules 1 time per day|capsules 3 times per day, |like before a meal |on empty stomach |like at mealtime ---+---------------------+-----------------------+------------------------- 1 | 1 | 1 | 1, 1, 1 2 | 2 | 1 | 2, 2, 2 3 | 3 | 2 | 3, 3,
you may also try arrow root starch or potato starch.
use a mixture of cornstarch and zinc oxide poured into a salt shaker with a lid.
perhaps they believed that small amounts - too small to measure with an  ultraviolet spectrophotometer - could surely do no harm.
they are not destroyed by heat and are especially toxic to children.
honey, and 1 lemon, juiced by hand, into a quart jar and fill with cold water.
the most promising discovery in this book is the effectiveness of  electricity to kill viruses, bacteria and parasites.
chewing it all begins with the stomach although chewing food well is essential for  really good digestion.
do at least this much to get away from the mold-ridden grocery store loaves.
a hot meat dish (no pasta, no wheat flour, no regular gravy) can be fried, cooked or baked, but not grilled.
or to turn a page of the telephone directory.
pour some into dispenser bottle.
move to a simpler diet, cooked cereal with honey, cinnamon and  whipping cream (only 4 ingredients), milk (boiled), bakery bread, canned tuna  or salmon, plain cooked or fried potatoes with butter, and slices of raw  vegetables and fruit without any sauces, except honey or homemade tomato sauce,  to dip into.
to facilitate getting to  the commode quickly in the night, dress the elderly in a short night shirt, no  pajamas or long gown.
slowly and carefully, pour the lye solution into the dishpan with the lard.
books by hulda regehr clark are available on amazon website: the cure for all diseases [large pr... by hulda regehr clark us$16.44 buy  on amazon the cure for all cancers: including... by hulda regehr clark us$15.37 buy on amazon the cure for all advanced cancers [... by hulda  regehr clark us$15.37 buy on amazon syncrometer science laboratory  manu... by hulda regehr clark us$19.95 buy on amazon a cure for cancer?
in her book she states: copyright 1995 by hulda regehr clark, ph.d., n.d. all rights reserved.
(when the inside of the nose is dry, cracked and bleeding.)
don't use chlorine if there is an ill person in the house.
get it down  within 15 minutes.
is the human species  doomed, or will some of us "adapt".
does a captive animal  learn from seeing its companion disappear?
don't overcook them - it might harm this substance.
go to higher levels of authority.
insomnia has better solutions than caffeine, though.)
teach children this old rearranged verse: if you cough or sneeze or sniff
it has kept you a prisoner.
the panoramic x-ray shows the whole mouth including  the jaws and the sinuses.
it takes only 7 minutes to zap all the parasite adults and their  stages which cause your cells to multiply.
low  potassium levels (due to excess potassium losses by the adrenals) causes more  weakness.
these can induce a dizzy spell.
true origins of viruses
these are essential for alcohol detoxification.
walk around the outside.
however eating more sugar doesn't cure the craving.
remove all metal from the mouth.
if you have other reactions, like diarrhea, try milk digestant tablets (available at health food stores).
you  see dentures everywhere and they seem strong enough to eat with.
a slow pulse could certainly bring about weakness.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++aging is necessary but chronic  illness and pain are not.
this depends on removing benzene from your body and keeping it out of your body.
to treat the whole house, pour vinegar all around your foundation, close to the wall, using one gallon for every five feet.
toxins in plastic can seep!
every aids sufferer i see has a crippled ability to detoxify benzene; they also have zear!
getting away from grains in view of the many  molds that are grain-related, and because these cannot be seen or smelled in  pastas, breads, cold cereals, it would be wise to steer away from grain  consumption.
the worst parasite 33 pollution 36 solvent pollution 36 metal pollution 37 mycotoxins 38 physical toxins 38 how we really get sick 43 self health 46 how to heal 47
although i used to recommend single herb teas (tea mixtures have solvents), i can now only recommend single herb teas from fresh sources in bulk (see the sources chapter).
symptoms often come back!
filters are rather useless because water pollution comes in surges.
start with carrot juice.
when the heart is enlarged, the valves don't quite close where they should, making the work harder for it and weakening it.
the  adrenals are in control of losses.
marshmallow root (althea officinallis) is mucilaginous and kills pain.
do you treat cavitations?
breakfast choose any one; they need not be in order.
i consider these to be  our most serious threat.
canned  meats are safe from living parasites, but are not recommended due to added  chemicals.
the tragedies of surgery, organ replacements, radiation, chemotherapies, doses of drugs, even death can be avoided.
in spite of vacuuming every week, the filth accumulates.
old fashioned cooking  took most of the day.
if you use too much it will leave a film on your dishes.
outside are new ideas that invite you to step over and escape your prison.
given half a  chance your body will throw the rascals out and restore order in you tissues.
this system no longer works.
the  instructions are simple enough for anyone.
don't rely on bleaching.
digestive enzyme tablets have been in popular use to help digestion.
since tumors are often large, many centimeters in diameter, and toxins do not occupy much space, there is much unidentified substance.
plastic has tiny pores where bacteria can hide.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ - flavored food, yogurt, jell-o(tm),
bake the potato: not in aluminum foil, not baked until fluffy.
grilled food, smoked food, hot dogs and lunch meats with "smoke flavor" all have benzopyrenes - even toast has it.
at least it isn't positively charged like metals; it can't set up an electric current nor a magnetic field in your mouth, all of which may be harmful.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ eating more potassium in food is a good nutrition project.
bottled fruit juices have traces of numerous solvents, as do the frozen concentrates, as do the refrigerated ones, don't buy them.
sometimes you can zap adenovirus, the common cold virus, at 393 khz for  three minutes with a frequency generator and be rid of your cold, magically, in  five minutes.
it may also have worsened alcohol addiction (beryllium toxicity).
to repeat: week 1: parsley water.
this lowers  your immunity, allowing any adenovirus to invade your weakest tissues.
and what is the effect on men and boys of eating an estrogen-like mycotoxin in their daily diet?
just shake it up to use it.
no fiberglass insulation.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++all dosages are based on a 10  pound (5 kilo) cat or dog.
let it set until the next morning; then cut it into bars.
was the place sprayed for insects?
lead was not less toxic then, we were just less informed!
and the sponge is always culturing.
going slower: on the other hand, if you cringe at the thought of taking an herb or you are anxious about it's safety, continue the drops, increasing at your own pace, until you are ready to brave the decisive 2 tsp. dose.
at least a third of all i test are polluted.
your lymph nodes are your best friends.
you may be quite familiar with your doctor's explanation of your illness or your child's illness.
54 don't eat the green on  the potato.
the recipe to make 1 liter (quart) is: - 44 gm (1 s/2 ounces) iodine, granular - 88 gm (3 ounces) potassium iodide, granular dissolve the potassium iodide in about a pint of the water.
basements invite mold, mice and radon besides toxic things.
the silent cervix 112 menopausal symptoms, hot flushes, pms  113 infertility 117 nausea 121 prostate problems 124 side pain 128 midabdomen  pain, stomach pain 131 stomach ulcer 132 hiatal hernia 133 respiratory illness  134 asthma 134 bronchitis, croup, chronic cough 140 breast pain 142 breast
avoid the entire list, meticulously.
such  is the deception of flavorings.
for the same reason, don't use canned green beans.
or get through the first three weeks of the parasite killing program before attempting a liver cleanse.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++all malignancies have the same  two fundamental causes: +++intestinal flukes and propyl alcohol.
imagine your four cylinder car or lawnmower  missing one out of four engine strokes!
and how much better the sleep is at night.
alcohol seems to drive the toxin deeper into your tissues.
eventually a mold toxin prevents the liver from regenerating.
pure starch is very easy to digest and has a large adsorptive capability for toxins.
i never find lack of exercise, vitamin deficiencies, hormone levels or anything else to be a primary causative factor.
what this means is, in animals, "zear" looks likes extra estrogen to  the body.
nothing could be  more untrue.
before the appetite loss there may have been a broken hip.
| ------------------+-------------------+------------------+-------------------
the hiv virus infects us during the time the intestinal fluke,  fasciolopsis buskii, is being hosted.
eradicating aflatoxin simply sprinkling vitamin c over roasted nuts is not effective because the molds have penetrated the surface.
nad  enzymes (the n stands for niacin) come into play too.
a plastic pitcher (not clear plastic or flexible plastic) with a  carbon pack fitted into the top is best.
because it is rustproof and shiny and we can't see any deterioration.
fortunately, this is easy to do with a syrup.
building a zapper 19 killing the surviving pathogens 20 zapper parts list 21
if your body still has its wisdom, or most of it, why can't it detect the mold in peanuts, crackers and bread for us?
curing cancer cancer is no longer the deadly disease it once was.
fortunately, we don't have to do the whole job ourselves, we only need to assist.
the habit of using vinegar and honey in water as a beverage was made  famous by dr. jarvis in his book folk medicine, circa 1960.
second, find the "station frequencies" that your particular  invader(s) broadcast at.
sterigmatocystin sterigmatocystin ("sterig") is plentiful in pasta.
uva ursi capsules - vegetable glycerin - black cherry concentrate, 8 oz - vitamin b6, 250 mg - magnesium oxide tablets.
if your  child has too many foods on her or his personal "off list", let this  signal you to improve liver function.
heel pain 61 leg pain in children 69 leg pain
while living things are alive, the mold attackers can be held at  bay.
hands not only provide moisture but often food from the last meal.
but the same analysis is done on the cheaper grades, and my point is that the analysis is cost effective enough that it should be done on our daily foods.)
with tablets, too, one must be careful with dosages, while food is self limiting.
you won't drop dead from getting propyl alcohol, but your cancer will flare up with each small addition.
homeopathy, too, can immediately banish your cold symptoms.
the cure for all diseases copyright 1995 by hulda regehr clark, ph.d., n.d. all rights reserved.
to stop reinfecting yourself the little cysts under the nails need to be killed.
drink at least 2 pints of water a day.
i have indicated throughout this book the existence of pollutants in food  and other products.
if you have breath odor, search for a hidden tooth infection or cavitation.
policies supported at the grass roots level can bring about  change.
don't start with cans or packages or frozen  items to make some recipe.
mites are too tiny to see, tiny enough to ride on a dust particle as if it were a magic carpet.
1 tsp. sodium alginate 1 cup water
60 tops and bottoms of some metal crowns.
look at the bottle of common table salt, sodium chloride, that is used by beginning chemistry students to do experiments.
the shortening is due to failure of some organ in us.
it is included here in case you prefer it or wish to treat a pet.
detergents with pcbs.
don't skip this or you may have the worst night of your life!
it does nothing to escape its fate.
they should be thrown out.
use lugol's (see recipes) and the bowel program (page 546) to clear them up.
let cool at least one hour in a safe place.
hcl as a tablet ("betaine  hcl") is available but doesn't have enough hcl in it.
moving into the summer kitchen got  you away from the accumulation of filth from winter!
or perhaps the lawmakers didn't miss this fact.
lime water (calcium hydroxide) or iodine based antiseptics seem obviously simple methods to accomplish this.
then drink one glass a day.
dr. clark: composites with barium are not good, but i haven't seen enough barium toxicity from fillings at this time to merit advising extraction instead.
vacuum the carpets when the children, the sick and elderly are out of the  house.
sleep at night is more important than sleep by day.
when the brain problems are corrected for an elderly person, be sure to relate the improvement to him or her.
indigestion that starts right after eating is probably due to salmonellas.
if you don't like the taste of your own tap water, try to get it from a friend with newer plumbing.
of  vinegar and honey.
if you have taken a risk, zap yourself as soon as you get  home to minimize the damage.
this is less expensive, too.
by pennington and church, 1985.
estrogen and  progesterone levels (pg./ml).
give them a thorough cleaning.
every aids sufferer i see has a crippled ability to detoxify benzene;  they also have zear!
there is no wheat or corn bread.
the steer, too, has its feed provided, its water provided, its shelter for the night provided, seemingly the best time it ever had.
as the counter and table and stove get wiped "clean" a film of contamination is left everywhere.
after finding one, you will notice it beeping in you for several days.
the cold water faucet may be bringing you cadmium, copper or lead, but it is safer than purchased water, which inevitably has solvents in it.
when  added to mercury the mercury will stay liquid at lower temperatures.
it has a fascinating  chapter on the leukemias by two scientists from the academy of sciences of the  ussr, e. l. andronikashvili and l. mosulishvili.
milk or water glasses are picking up dust as  soon as you set them out.
if you get a few drops on your skin it may turn white and sting, but does no harm, so simply wash it off.
if you are ill, move out of such a room.
don't drink water that has stood in the filter pitcher very long, either.
this is not difficult to achieve.
but once it is changed you are back to an automatic way of doing something.
to make 50% glycerin, add equal parts of glycerin and water.
apricot kernel oil (olive oil will do) 1 tbs.
hair gets squeaky clean so quickly (just a few squirts does it) that you might think nothing has happened!
all the store bought shampoo
it must be heated until it bubbles up and almost goes over  the container for ten seconds.
[note rinsing or drying is not  required!]
the  "goods" always win; manufacturers don't stop until they do.
keep a wide mouth glass quart jar handy just for this.
it is better to switch shampoos than to not need any due to radiation and chemotherapy!
but when benzopyrenes are added, the total is entirely too much for the liver and it begins to accumulate in your thymus.
gradually heat to boiling while stirring.
in fact, don't bother with any fancy recipes.
don't believe your eyes when you see the commercials where the smiling person pulls a shining dish out of greasy suds.
your cells do it with mucous secretion,  inflammation and other unknown ways.
pour it all into a large plastic bowl.
the milk should be 2% or more butterfat because the calcium in milk cannot  be absorbed without at least this much fat.
some of them  produce very, very toxic chemicals wherever they grow.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ +++never diet during illness +++ +++this is a rule based on common sense.
no matter how long and confusing is the list of symptoms a person has, from chronic fatigue to infertility to mental problems, i am sure to find only two things wrong: they have in them pollutants and/or parasites.
dr. jerome: these are the acceptable plastics; they can be procured at any dental lab.
we do not taste  it because manufacturers have been using more and more flavorings in food.
our food manufacturers have gone to great lengths to fool our native senses.
help the adrenal glands do their job of regulating sodium and potassium chloride by cleaning them up.
fatigue will leave and the brain will work better.
it is indeed the  life-saving step.
(you will pay about $8.00 per pound (spectrum chemical co.) for usp (united states pharmaceutical) grade.
cancer is no longer the deadly disease it once was.
dr. clark: there are many lanthanide (rare earth) metals used in dental plastic.
i have only found nickel in the "one-minute" or "instant" variety of oats, however.)
food fried in a skillet does not (even if you burn it black!).
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++ not many adenovirus at first.
cysts are so tough not even bleach kills them.
the opening of blood vessels by niacin only lasts a few hours.
store in plastic shopping bag or stand in plastic waste basket.
after using the bathroom and washing your hands, treat your fingernails with alcohol.