colour is first applied using various clay slips.
using stains slips and inlay decorating techniques, inspired by 1950’s british and scandinavian design.
throughout my career i have exhibited extensively and have work in both private and public collections and have had work selected for many international competitions including mino, japan and the fletcher challenge in new zealand of which i was the premier winner...
her main interest is in the choice of firing and especially the related effects and changes each method applies to her pots... peter hayes' ceramics lead an unusually adventurous life before they reach the gallery.
he has exhibited throughout the uk and worldwide, with his work held by national collections in singapore and malaysia.
sue recycles in a different way.
it is almost impossible to see her pots without smiling.
and then the international glass centre, dudley college where he studied techniques of hand making & decorating glassunder master glassmaker malcolm andrews - "i work with a magical material called glass...
she uses a combination of gold, silver, bronze and brass to create jewellery that is inspired by both her travels to far away places, and the fairy stories that she has read to her children...
narrative ceramics which may seem, at first glance, decorative and playful
paul has specialised in painting watercolours for the last fifteen years and his inspiration is drawn from strong tones and contrast found within the landscape.
he then went on to bath spa  university where he obtained a first class honours degree in 2002 and an ma  from the rca in london in 2004...
each generation has produced their own  particular style of work and responded to the changing needs of society...
each piece is a unique hollow-thrown vessel, which is raku fired and gilded with three types of gold and copper leaf.
she captures  some of this beauty through surface texture and glazes... collins, nic (view gallery).
my styles & designs are developing all the time so that my work is always individual.
andrew was born and brought up in the coastal northwest of england but has now lived in warwickshire for six years.
she is a fellow of the craft potters association.
david jones was born in 1953.
this gives distinctive markings and a dense surface quality".
for the surfaces i layer slips and glazes, to create a rich and varied effect, and use a combination of dipping, pouring and hakeme to make spontaneous marks which compliment the form.
when the clay slip is drying, scraffito tools are used to incise lines through the colour and create specific designs... alison is from lincoln and specialises in hand made original prints in a variety of methods; screenprints, etchings/aquatinting and linocuts.
martin mcwilliam showed here for the first time and we are delighted that he agreed to show his work here.
she takes inspiration from the complexities of relationships and the qualities that make each of us individual, both physically and emotionally...
subsequent, and formative influences were kindled by geoffrey whiting, who introduced me to the ideas of bernard leach and the sung aesthetic...
together with this and the influence of other japanese art, i have explored the use of asymmetrical forms using the natural colour of stoneware and porcelain clay, enhanced by stained inlay decoration...
he graduated in philosophy and literature from the university of warwick in 1974.
using the vessel form she fragments it and combines the organic lines and smoke firing process to create non-functional vessels.
many of his etching utilise traditional techniques and processes, but a large part of his work remains experimental...
after being awarded first class honours in ceramics from wolverhampton university, jennifer taught in several departments in the faculty of art and design, birmingham city university and was appointed senior lecturer in the school of industrial ceramics where she taught until 1995.
individual items range from 9cm to 50cm.
artist’s statement by beatrice hoffman
through a long-term passion for horses, frances has gained a deep understanding of their character and conformation, and in recognition of her expertise in this field, has recently been promoted to an associate member of the society of equestrian artists (asea).
in 1958, while based in london, he began to concentrate on painting and exhibiting...
born in london, john ward studied ceramics at camberwell school of arts and crafts with hans coper and lucie rie.
the shapes i love to make most are round, like the traditional clay containers made in the rural parts of africa...
his honest and simple approach results in an understated elegance.
i love aquatints for the range of contrast possible, and for the velvety effect it gives, especially with darker colours...
inspired by the mountaineous landscape of her home country austria and constructed from soft slabs of clay, regina heinz’s pieces display an organic and sensual quality.
3d design man met uk, mfa fine art (ceramics)
"my work concentrates on form and texture.
the unique character of paul jackson's work derives from two interrelated processes.
art designer in timber and metal leon lewis - designer and maker in timber and metal leon’s work follows a fascination of the relationship between the man-made and natural world.
rosemarie is an experienced studio potter who has exhibited both in the uk and overseas.
alan’s current work is principally hand-built one-off pieces.
claire murray has worked with clay since her early twenties - as both a student and during her career as a teacher.
heather established her studio in the early eighties where whe worked designing and developing her range of ceramics.
he has built 2 kilns enabling him to produce a variety of work which reflects his own style christine-ann richards trained at harrow school of art and technology with mick casson (1971-73), then worked with david leach.
the weight of the porcelain in the hand combined with the pure delicate forms makes each piece a delight to hold and use.
i became deeply interested in functional domestic ware during the hnd ceramic design course at harrow college.
he graduated from glasgow school of art with a b.a. hons design (ceramics) in 1980.
i combine the essence of these large structures with thin pieces of clay, portraying them through framed wall tiles...
since becoming a professional artist in 1988, jonathan has concentrated on trying to capture the impact light and weather can have on cityscapes and landscapes and the way they can transform a scene, using watercolours and pastels.
all of the work is handbuilt using slab construction, coiling and, occasionally, throwing and coiling in combination.
her inspiration primarily comes from the textural qualities of landscape...
she gained a place on a foundation degree to study applied arts at plymouth  college of art and design.
blake was in charge of the ceramics department at portsmouth college of art and subsequently croydon college...
" yo was born in tokyo and after a degree in english language in japan she came over to britain and started a 3d design course at the kent institute of art and design.
in 1964/5 the pottery at muchelney in somerset was established making oil-fired functional ware.
hand sculptured wooden toys for children crafted out of english hardwoods.
in 1977 he set up as a self-employed potter.
born in 1961, duncan grew up in the midlands where he still spends a substantial part of the year.
the effects of a rich  orange peel surface swept aside by a soft satin sheen are the gifts of the  kiln.
in 1977 they moved to wobage farm in  herefordshire, creating studios and workshops... chambers, matthew (view gallery).
i love the spontaneity and mark making quality of clay.
dennis farrell's painterly seascape pots have been featured in the gallery to date, now we are pleased to be able to show new work which depicts the woodlands near his home in shropshire.
her work embraces an extensive range of thrown functional ware for the preparation, cooking, serving and eating food from...
michelle's ceramics are functional yet stimulating and inspirational.
jenny says "i am interested in movement in relation to natural  change, as seen in changed states of matter - decay, disintegration, relocation  and reformation - in particular the role ‘water’ plays in this  action... bendavid, kochevet (view gallery).
my work explores ways ceramics can fuse the boundaries between craft and society, by closing the gap between art and communities.
here she learnt to throw, to glaze and to decorate pots in the tin-glazed earthenware tradition...
"i have been influenced by ikebana, the arts of japanese flower arranging, which i have studied for several years.
his work has been described as ethereal, generous, beautiful and evocative...
i produce sculptural forms comprising of multiple elements that address the relationship between the formal qualities of line, scale, shape, material, colour and texture.
the combination of gold and smoked polished terra sigillata is irresistible - a rich sensuous surface.
kay mcdonagh is married with two children and lives in worcester.
the bowls act as a canvas for paintings that distil specific landscape scenes, perceptibly altering the size, depth and shape of the form by the applied colour...
in his late  teens and early twenties he began building kilns and wheels and sourcing his  own clay from the local river banks.
changes in colour and shape of the earth are remnants of industry which can be represented by oxides and volcanic glazes or by textural surfaces.
he brings a new and often rather quirky aspect to domestic ware  and he has a deft decorator’s hand and an endlessly creative imagination.
her ceramic work celebrates attention to detail and functionality in strong, sculptural forms...
they are made i n earthenware and fired electric to 1080º c.
all fired to 1260 c in an electric kiln.
she started and ran deddington pottery, oxon before  marrying and moving to hampshire.
it is always a pleasure to be able to introduce a new ceramic artist to the gallery.
imagination and its ability to transform the ordinary into the extraordinary is of primary concern to my work.
recently i have produced mixed media works on linen using dry materials such as chalk and pencil alongside indian ink.
her influences come from the allotment and smallholding lifestyle she grew up with in rural oxfordshire.
from 1983-1987 she worked for gustave tiffoche and suzy atkins...
i use slab hand building as my method to construct my forms.
edge richard hopes to entice you to venture into  the dreamlike spaces he has created in his intense paintings and prints,  inspired by sunlit groves and misty mornings and the sparkle of water
my work is mostly wheel-thrown with some press-moulded textural combinations.
hayes' studio is an old toll house on a bridge over the avon... painter and mixed media artist.
margaret discovered clay at bolton college of art and developed this enthusiasm at stoke-on-trent school of art under derek emms.
i love using glass, where the finished piece is a solid form but creates the sensation of movement and grace.”
my specialism was fine art ( painting and print-making )...
inspiration is drawn from the natural world, the material qualities of clay and the physicality of the making process itself.
she now devotes her time to the development of her own work and teaching in schools as a clay artist.
hollow vessels are transformed by simple additions into evocations of geese, ducks and grebes.
he works within the vessel format, combining textures and colours to give the viewer an intimate insight into his private view of ceramics... all my pots are thrown on a potter’s wheel in the first place.
my work involves the digital manipulation of established vocabularies of printed motif, pattern and image from industrial ceramic archives and engraved book illustration.
i love the symmetry of the wheel and the ability it gives me to control shape and form.
this is evident by a wet hand on a soft form fresh off the wheel, through to an individual hand or fingerprint emphasised by the glaze...
born in the midlands in 1976, richard’s artistic leanings were obvious from an early age.
the trompe l’oeil effects and multidimensional construction are exciting and always attract attention from enthusiasts of studio ceramics.
mark says "the core direction of my work is best described as an investigation of possibilities and relationships.
the dialogue that goes on between the maker and the clay is carried out through the use of the pots.
i explore and apply ideas of cultural identity and social change by using interaction as part of a performance, bringing attention to objects roles in certain social contexts... i was born in darlaston in 1954.
masazumi is from japan and has lived in wales for eleven years.
she has been a prizewinner at the mashiko ceramics competition in japan, and at the world ceramic exposition in korea...
in his more abstract figures he enjoys the interplay of the motif and the form.
recently she has developed a way of working with glass to enclose the fragile fabric membrane in a tough monumental material...
two very different styles yet both have rich qualities about them and both have influenced my work from the beginning.
pascale was born in tulle (correze) france and always loved drawing and painting even as a child, on anything and anywhere, paper, stones, walls and doors.
after working in jersey and wales as a graphic artist, he returned to his own town of stourbridge, to concentrate on painting.
archer, peter (view gallery).
after being awarded first class honours in ceramics from wolverhampton  university, jennifer taught in several departments in the faculty of art and  design, birmingham city university and was appointed senior lecturer in the  school of industrial ceramics where she taught until 1995.
he joined david leach in 1962 and established his own workshop in 1964.
morgen makes a wide range of domestic tableware which is inspired by the food it is intended for, from tea cabaret sets to spaghetti jars.
the transparent crackle glaze i use dresses tightly-controlled, thrown, sculpted forms in a complementary random and natural effect punctuated by paper and glue resisted areas...
sheila studied pottery and lithography at hornsey school of art.
i make heads and faces.
ayre, thelma (view gallery).
eric james mellon is a potter dedicated to the ceramic process who is also skilled as a graphic artist...
inspiration is drawn from human animal and bird form on an ever changing basis... my career as an artist began in 1976.
he trained at the harrow school of art, studying under victor margrie and michael casson, and later returned there to teach.
pauline eventually became a television production assistant and worked her way up to assistant producer...
potter who specialises in thrown and hand built pieces using crater glazes the images i create are composed from informal and staged photography.
petra bittl - germany petra is one of germany's leading ceramicists.
for many years i have been making tableware for every day use...
people are endlessly fascinating for me, and the way we inhabit our bodies in distinct yet ultimately interconnected ways is the main focus of my work"... "through my work i want to highlight the preciousness of life and the rituals of food and drink with objects that are both special and tactile.
i'm often asked about sources of inspiration.... has been active in the market place for six years, and now has a reputation as one of the top selling artists in the uk, providing work for harrods and john lewis, as well as for galleries abroad - from the usa to new zealand.
a kandinsky exhibition in london provoked steve into art.
he is a self taught artist based in  the centre of the uk.
here she learnt to throw, to glaze and to decorate pots in  the tin-glazed earthenware tradition... coles, howard (view gallery).
since i retired from my work as a social worker i have enjoyed more time to explore other forms of expression...
he lives in rural warwickshire, just about as far from the sea as you can get.
being brought up in africa and asia and her extensive travels have greatly influenced her art...
he has had numerous commissions for newspapers, magazines and books and held several exhibitions of his prints.
nic has now been using clay for almost 30 years.
karen bird is a portrait and figurative sculptor/ ceramic artist working in clay and casting in bronze, ciment fondu and plaster of paris.
david is an elected member of the easel club, the royal birmingham society of artists and the birmingham art circle of which he is currently vice-president.
since then he has exhibited widely and has gained many notable achievements.
as a ceramics student in the eighties, i was fascinated by a statement from “the unknown craftsman” by soetsu yanagi : “when you are doing your work, you and your work are two different things, but when you become the work and do the work, true work becomes possible”...
hollie is a designer and craftswoman who uses reclaimed wood and fittings to make quirky functional furniture.
when i left school, i went to work as a stone carver at st paul’s cathedral.
he has exhibited widely in the uk and also in the usa.
this combination produces a distinctive look that makes her work instantly recognisable...
mark’s black and white studio ceramics were a hit when he last appeared here.
the current range is fired at earthenware temperature.
i am also driven by narrative; spoken and written language informs much of my work...
walter keeler's pottery is mainly domestic and functional in salt glazed stoneware or, more rarely, earthenware.
the engineering process of making pots is one of the aspects that excites, challenges and arouses her curiosity...
a predominant influence in this work is the landscape, but not a static landscape, instead a landscape in time; where things grow, the land moves, geological deposits are built up and most importantly where humankind has intervened and our repetitive, methodic actions have left lasting visual effects on the environment...
they are reduction fired in a gas kiln.
since then she has had many solo exhibitions and been part of larger group events...
and i had a lot of exposure to the arts and crafts, particularly old buildings!
she finishes some of her work by burnishing then fires to bisque...
fritz is a skilled thrower as anyone seeing his demonstrations will confirm.
each piece of work by mark smith draws inspiration from the sea, and each has it's own unique appearance and story to tell.
"my particular kind of stoneware differs from that of my peers as it concentrates firstly on painting, and secondly on the vessel and its form, and therefore i complement the simplicity of my painting with a basic slab building technique...
bruna has spent his later career developing his skills within the  picture book genre, creating characters such as miffy... bryant, liz (view gallery).
these works are producing results which i am keen on exploring much further.
salt glazing is an exciting, but often less than predictable, method of firing pottery.
the great chefs on tv have created a move back to the kitchen to enjoy great food and have fun preparing it.
in 2000, after completing a degree in ceramics at the university of the west of england, he moved to devon to embark upon an apprenticeship at dartington pottery.
his work is known for its high quality, attention to fine detail, innovative surface treatments and design ideas.
natural looking stones with interesting shapes and colours are the main inspiration behind my work.
will levi marshall was born 27 march 1969, is married and has two daughters.
i throw porcelain vessels enriched with oxides and slips that explore my fascination with coastlines...
the latest collection comprises of earrings, brooches cufflinks and necklaces i make porcelain which explores and extends the qualities associated with this beautiful material.
he makes hand thrown stoneware.
through her studies she encountered glass and her artistic practice moved away from ceramics.
her work demonstrates her fine art origins - she treats her work very much as painting and drawing but using clay as her medium....her canvas, her paper and the sculptural ceramic works that she produces are quite unique.
jeremiah says "art is a constant energy allowing me to find new ways to express myself.
pascale studied architecture in clemont-ferrand and joined the evening classes at les beaux arts where she used charcoal and sanguines in her drawings...
the perfect opportunity to see two heads working as one.
the subject matter is quirky, fun and mainly animal humour, but always different.
artist valerie briggs valerie has had a long association with bevere gallery; she is a self taught artist and first joined the bevere vivis art group in the early 1980’s to help her get the measure of her talent and build up confidence in exhibiting.
i work predominantly in gouache which as a medium allows me to express myself with true depth and colour but still retain the subtlety of watercolour...
michael’s work in oils typically includes landscapes, urban  scenes and figures, and he finds inspiration in worcestershire, shropshire,  wales and the marches as well as in cities, motorways and the sky.
since that time, she has worked as a technician/demonstrator  and then as a teacher on foundation courses at a number of colleges.
he has served apprenticeships with many talented glass makers including sam herman, giving him the basis to be the consummate artist he is today.
he has exhibited  throughout the uk and worldwide, with his work held by national collections in  singapore and malaysia.
colourful porcelain jewelery
my work attempts to create parallels between contemporary fine art and craft practices...
trevor is a ceramicist with over 20 years experience based in bath.
steve makes a range of hand thrown domestic stoneware.
after art-school she  spent twenty years dealing in 18th and 19th century drawings... cooper, emmanuel (view gallery).
my practice focuses on the exploration of materials and process.
enamelling is the art of fusing glass onto metal.
she has brought the primary elements earth, wind, fire and water into her compositions...
initially, matt's work has a sense of perceived simplicity.
my work i explores the relationships between the processes that make the piece and the effects they create, as well as the relationship between the pot and the user.
the coast line, to the north of lancaster is very special with gorgeous  colourful beaches, and wonderful sunsets.
ben says - "my ceramic work is wheel thrown and altered using stoneware and porcelain clays.
in 1955  she married fellow potter michael casson.
whilst she was a fellow at digswell arts trust, she took the leap into independence as an artist.
manipulating soft clay on a revolving wheel and feeling the material respond to the merest touch is like setting out on an exciting journey for me.
his first pictures  were of crocodiles with toothy grins so it could be seen from an early age  where an artistic career would take him.
the representation of the organic form evokes ideas of the natural cycle of life and my latest work reflects this.
the pots are austere in shape, with a great sense of detail and colour.
toon was born in belgium...
i create ceramic vessels and small scale sculptural pieces that explore form, line, texture and the interaction of light, shade and colour.
my work i decorated with a range of oriental glazes, these are applied quickly by dipping and pouring in different combinations which fuse together in the heat of the kiln... "born in worcestershire, employed in the print trade, i have worked closely with photographers and artists to publish post cards, greetings cards, fine art prints and calendars.
bruna has spent his later career developing his skills within the picture book genre, creating characters such as miffy...
robin welch has been a singular figure in british studio ceramics for at least forty years.
i am taking objects and imagery that are present in the city and putting them into ceramic form.
much of his recent work has used geometric man-made forms alongside organic qualities in landscape...
he is an elected fellow of the craft potters association...
most recently edward exhibited at the danish national ceramics gallery and gained a ‘grants for the arts’ from the arts council england for development of his practice...
de benedetti bud, laura (view gallery).
glazes tend to be bright and rich and include turquoise blues and greens, nickel pinks and blues, uranium yellow.
recently she has also turned her attention to formal gardens and allotments, and landscapes passed through on road trips...
the bowls though similar in form, each one is unique depending upon how the glaze is applied to the form or the way that two glazes react when overlapping... hand built vessel oriented stoneware and paperclay pieces, reduction fired.
carolyn, who was born in singapore, has been a professional potter for over twenty years.
core to her work is a fascination with the human form and the human condition.
arieu, michelle (view gallery).
to jill birds are the embodiment of freedom.
during the first year she gained a place on a master class at northlands and felt that this was the turning point that enabled her to create glass past the blown form... antony j. bridge was born in 1980.
her work is slab-built, layered with printed imagery and raku-fired.
stylised images of animals and plants are cut freehand into the  leather-hard clay and, after biscuit firing, are inlaid with eggshell smooth  glazes maturing at 1280°c... davies, ben (view gallery).
together established ballagh studio in malin by converting old farm buildings...
i produce sculptural forms comprising of multiple elements that address the  relationship between the formal qualities of line, scale, shape, material,  colour and texture.
peter eugene ball was born in coventry, warwickshire on 19 march 1943.
a natural and compulsive artist, he drew and painted from his earliest years, which marked the beginning of a life-long passion for art.
using both modern and traditional wood ash and “jun” glazes dave aims to make traditional pots with a modern feel.
michelle says- "my pieces to date are a mix of hand built, press mould, and thrown techniques.
i have walked, drawn and painted it since childhood and this lies behind the evolution of my birdbaths, made since 1984.
tim has gained an international reputation for his distinctive smoke-fired and raku ceramics.
the pieces are altered to both exploit and escape the soft cylinders and circles imposed by the wheel.
cambridge based potter matthew blakely, graduated from southampton university with a bsc in psychology in 1984.
tim is an artist and illustrator working from his studios in malin, county donegal, ireland.
there are many processes in the creation of the clay object, all of which could end in disaster, until finally the object is given up to the mercy of the kiln... magdalena gazur, 27, lives in poland.
he particularly likes to throw pots and then alter them, using a knife to cut facets or a paddle to change the form... holland toon thijs's reputation is based on his remarkable designs and their underlying concepts.
the pieces are usually thrown, although new work is hand-built.
chickens have always been a central part to her daily life, and so have become the leading characters of her work...
though entirely  self-taught, his style has been greatly influenced by the works of seago,  wesson, fletcher-watson and yardley... curtis, clare (view gallery).
nick has worked with john leach at the pottery since 1972...
carole is an internationally renowned textile artist.
fast and free gestural markings and painterly brushstrokes, inspired by music, rhythm, travel, explore plane and surface and conclude with the serendipitous play of fire in salt-glazing.
he is a self taught artist based in the centre of the uk.
clarke, tania (view gallery).
i am fascinated by the different atmospheres that light creates in both our rural and urban environments...
since then i have set up my own studio in which i make functional, hand thrown porcelain vessels.
one interest is in the vessel as an abstract sculptural form and its many associations, both literal and metaphoric.
"i was born into an australian musical family.
“my current practices are based on thrown, functional slip wares such  as cheese and service platters, bowls, jugs and mugs.
i create a contemporary interpretation of the traditional craft of throwing.
he has been painting for 25 years, working from life whenever possible; the british countryside and its wildlife providing the inspiration for his work...
the effects of a rich orange peel surface swept aside by a soft satin sheen are the gifts of the kiln.
louise has steadily gained a reputation for finely thrown white stoneware  and porcelain, and made the techniques of incising and carving very much her  own.
the earliest records show a pottery at hoo in kent in 1834 where even the street was named after my forbears.
i find joy and inspiration in learning new skills and in adopting them to enhance my artistic vocabulary.
he also likes the freedom and interesting effects of semi abstract painting.
louise has steadily gained a reputation for finely thrown white stoneware and porcelain, and made the techniques of incising and carving very much her own.
artist valerie briggs valerie has had a long association with bevere  gallery; she is a self taught artist and first joined the bevere vivis art  group in the early 1980’s to help her get the measure of her talent and  build up confidence in exhibiting.
multiple layers of coloured clays, slips and sgraffito motifs share influences drawn from leger, cocteau and braque.
for the next five years he worked in several ceramics studios across the country gradually honing his making skills...
she gained a place on a foundation degree to study applied arts at plymouth college of art and design.
working in porcelain for its purity, translucency, and its clear bright colours when glazed... artist statement:- tina is a studio potter based in london producing one off hand built ceramics.
"the sculpture i produce ranges from animals such as hares, cockerels, otters and meerkats to human figures.
author of "sketching wild birds" trevor combines a career in wildlife conservation with his passion for wildlife art.
he studied at liverpool school of art and design (1983-86) where he specialised in illustration.
barningham, heather (view gallery).
dick bruna (1927) is one of the few living dutch artists to have achieved worldwide fame among young and old.
stuart specialises in hot studio glass... lesley allen dring buckinghamshire chilterns university college ba (hons) ceramics and glass "sand cast glass is a beautiful means to create a three dimensional picture with texture and light.
unique gallery, sculpture trail and café on the outskirts of worcester jonathan garratt has specialised in making distinctive and unusual terracotta pots for gardens for nearly 30 years and currently enjoys a reputation as one of britain’s foremost garden artists... "my interest in ceramics began in california where my husband and i lived for eleven years.
i work on the wheel with porcelain and stoneware and explore variations on the vessel form.
he works alone producing a wide range of individual pottery forms... john maltby, whose work needs little introduction, is one of the best known sculptural potters working in england.
jewels says "i am a ceramic artist who completed my ba (hons) in contemporary applied art in 2010.
during the first year she  gained a place on a master class at northlands and felt that this was the  turning point that enabled her to create glass past the blown form... bridge, antony (view gallery).
pascale was born in tulle (correze) france and always loved drawing and  painting even as a child, on anything and anywhere, paper, stones, walls and  doors.
jo uses a potters wheel to  "throw" domestic and decorative pots in high-fired red earthenware  with painted, wax resist and slip decoration, also oven - proof dishes and some  stoneware items for the garden.... bigot, pascale (view gallery).
born in yorkshire, sam hall has spent nearly two decades living and working in st.ives.
her art is precise and detailed when needed for illustration and her paintings aim to be tranquil and serene...
his forms are decidedly contemporary, bearing little resemblance to any ceramic traditions.
tania says "i recently graduated from plymouth art college with a  ba (hons) in applied art, specialising in ceramics.
it was during his scientific career, researching his phd in mammalian genetics and chromosomal biology at cambridge, that he discovered ceramics and began a long fascination with the art form, both making and collecting...
crystalline glazing is time consuming & expensive to produce.
having studied ceramic fine art at the west wales school of art in carmarthenshire, she holds a first class honours degree and is currently represented by galleries in both wales and england...
after an initial biscuit firing the pieces are glazed and fired again in a raku kiln, a process which liz finds exciting and stimulating.
he became a big fan of the semi abstract style of artists such as david hockney, roy lichtenstein, fernand leger, tom wesselmann and bob kessel.
after a career teaching, barbara graduated recently as a mature student in visual arts.
i am an  artist/designer; art has always been an integral part of my development, from  playing with melting wax as a child to juggling and acrobatic stage shows... amirak, gunizi (view gallery).
she captures some of this beauty through surface texture and glazes...
where my work differs from traditional majolica is in the way i use it as a medium for painting in its own right...
antony j. bridge was born in 1980.
i have worked in saltglaze for more than 25 years.
kathryn blows hot glass!
she studied illustration at the laird school of art, birkenhead and is a graduate of glasgow school of art and jordanhill college of education.
this was cast in concrete, but shortly after, i found clay to be a far more suitable medium, and i’ve been using it ever since... brian steventon .
landscape and the human form were the initial stimulus for my current work.
since those first days she has been closely  involved in the evolution of the group into the bevere gallery as it is today...
she undertook her initial training in ceramics at the vocational school in landshut, germany...
he enjoys the challenge of making composite shapes, experimenting continually with the expressive qualities of clay and glaze.
she has a studio near rhayader in mid wales where she pots on a kickwheel, making slip-decorated, useable earthenware.
the work  is wood fired to 1400 degrees centigrade in an anagama kiln, for three to five  days...
howard coles is an increasingly acclaimed contemporary artist, producing contemporary landscape paintings and working in the uk.
in this technique you paint on top of the glaze prior to firing.
her work demonstrates her fine art origins - she treats her work very much as  painting and drawing but using clay as her medium....her canvas, her paper and  the sculptural ceramic works that she produces are quite unique.
thomas’s fascination with the form and texture of wood is evident in his work; replicating wood is not his goal, it is the starting point that takes him from the wood turning lathe to the plaster cast, to hand building and back to the lathe in an association of ideas that informs and educates as it evolves...
bosworth, joy (view gallery).
he feels his work is perceptual rather than conceptual, emotional rather than intellectual and he prefers expression over realism, subtlety over sensationalism, substance over novelty and intuition over reason...
by manipulating the normal methods of slipcasting, using a layering technique, i create unique objects that elevate a process normally associated with mass production.
ball, peter eugene (view gallery).
after art-school she spent twenty years dealing in 18th and 19th century drawings...
although relatively shallow in physical depth my sculptures are intended to have a psychological complexity, they rarely look directly at the viewer, are often lost in thought or otherwise occupied.
jo uses a potters wheel to "throw" domestic and decorative pots in high-fired red earthenware with painted, wax resist and slip decoration, also oven - proof dishes and some stoneware items for the garden....
the ceramic vessels that john higgins makes refer most often to architecture, archaeology and everyday objects.
monika makes two-tone slab-built stoneware vessels which are low salt-fired in a *reduction atmosphere.
sam hewitt studied visual and performing art at brighton university and fine art foundation at stourbridge college.
christopher hughes left the famous royal worcester porcelain company in 1980 to become a freelance artist...
i came to clay almost by chance after leaving college...
it's versatility a constant source of exploration and experimentation, and have been totally absorbed with the material ever since...
figures are draped around her vessels in characteristic style with a good eye for balance and elegant draughtsmanship...
“ such as ferns and alium, - and also by the mythical - life-sized dragons being a speciality.
adam specialises in free blown glass, and his work experiments with the hugely varied possibilities of the medium.
peter tends to use  temperate hardwoods, mainly ash and sycamore...
the design for the passage light originates from a series of pieces i was commissioned to make for bristol children's hospital in 2001...
"i want to celebrate the small moments we all tend to overlook.
i make functional pots which range in scale from fine delicate cups for tea or cider to large unexpectedly rugged slab dishes and plates.
forms seek to utilise and respond to the malleability of the material and work is altered and assembled while still wet.
her work received immediate recognition: ‘the potclays award for outstanding work in clay’...
her products include one off art pieces, functional objects created for an interior led market as well as a stunning range of glass 'art for wearing'... shape and construction of the vessel form are explored allowing for elements to be exaggerated or understated, such as handles and spouts.
the environments gormly sets his figures in have been a catalyst for the juxtaposed figure to the architectural form...
in the mid eighties he developed a range of highly coloured slips which he now applies to his work with a variety of sponges and brushes.
kim utilises many traditional methods, but does not ignore developments and improvements that can result from inspired experimentation.
a diverse range of influences have informed the work of françoise dufayard.
the printed imagery on her work relates to her past and the traces others leave behind... beth says "i gained a 1st class ba fine art and art history in 2002 and an ma fine art distinction in 2004, and since 2001 have been exhibiting in group and solo shows mostly in cardiff, shrewsbury, aberystwyth and birmingham and also in london, cheltenham and bath... all of these works are hand built in stoneware clay using the coiling method and fired individually.
he is a frequent demonstrator and is well known for his lectures and courses.
he is senior lecturer in ceramics at the university of wales  college, cardiff.
cheltenham-based michael brazier, a commercial officer at the ministry of  defence.
since graduating she has worked as writer, designer, illustrator and art  teacher.
natural disasters can wreck havoc on our environment, we have little control over them and they are easily ignored with a perceived safety of our everyday lives.
each vessel and plate is decorated with ceramic transfers which i have designed myself.
i generally work with either a stoneware or porcelain body.
she is intrigued by the quality of porcelain, which is soft, warm, responsive to her touch and ‘playful to her imagination’
he has been cutting and printing from his own lino blocks, using a home-made press, for the last eight years...
"i gained my degree in fine art from manchester college of art in  1971.
his subjects range from individual businesses, aeroplanes, boats and cars to anything his mind takes a fancy to....
hennie is an acclaimed south african ceramist.
she has worked as an illustrator with associated freelance artists, london, and was an art teacher in scotland and cheshire.
potter i work in raku as i like the way the finished pots reflect their 'elemental' journey from mud to ceramic:
cambridge based potter matthew blakely, graduated from southampton  university with a bsc in psychology in 1984.
john is an established artist living in wimbledon, london, with works in permanent collections in the national portrait gallery and westminster abbey.
dean obtained a b.a.(hons) 3d glass design at stourbridge college of art and design where he trained for three years.
the... hannah says "my work is predominantly thrown on the wheel using red earthenware clay.
his first encounters with  woodfiring began because he had no other way to fire his work.
christy graduated from the royal college of art in 1988 and started working from studios in london...
in 1965 he taught at brighton polytechnic, and in 1982 he decided to concentrate on his own work...
---- "the pots are all made with an eye to the possibility of function, although this is always balanced by the sculptural strengths of the forms.
ideas for forms are often derived from things that i pick up on the beach.
my paintings range from impressionistic to photo-realistic, the latter being the style selected for the show in worcester, in order to most effectively translate that freeze-frame moment onto canvas...
throughout his life jon has regularly tried to verbally explain the limits and characteristics of his sight and the way he perceives the moving world around him...
pieces are hand-built using predominantly a white earthenware clay body and layers of pattern and decoration are built up through the use of a number of techniques and multiple firings...
the surfaces of the large forms are created when the clay is still raw, vulnerable and at its most responsive... all the ceramics are hand-made; thrown on the wheel by rupert johnstone and then hand painted by alice hartford.
linda works in watercolour, charcoal and oils.
bruna , dick (view gallery).
sam has a pottery in westhampton, massachusetts.
using a variety of techniques the application of both colour and texture are inspired by the natural world; the seasons, landscapes and sea shores...
my work has evolved and matured and followed many different styles and techniques, but eventually i have returned to my first love wood firing."
reminiscent both of the intimacy of a body and the flowing lines of a landscape, her work, equally, can be seen as purly abstract - dealing with form, volume, line and colour...
emmanuel cooper makes individual pots, mostly in porcelain, including bowls  and jug forms.
i make saltglazed domestic pots, specialising in teapots together with jugs, mugs and cups of varying shapes and sizes.
john's  pottery is distinctive.
i make pieces which are simple yet have a softness, a freedom and a sculptural quality.
i am particularly inspired by modernist structures, with their clean sharp lines, simplicity of form and innovative use of materials...
his first pictures were of crocodiles with toothy grins so it could be seen from an early age where an artistic career would take him.
using carefully built collage blocks, her work combines the vibrant colours of oil-based printing inks with the textural qualities of the materials she uses.
her fine art training and her use of colour are evident in her work.
as a mature student, joy bosworth studied ceramics at wolverhampton polytechnic, now the university of wolverhampton, where she gained first class honours in 1987.
my inspiration is drawn from the intricate shapes and textures i observe in  the environment.
she has undertaken many private commissions in portraiture and life sculpture...
she loves cats and many of her paintings are of her own dog ozzy.
i am a printmaker, and the majority of my work combines collagraph and etching techniques to build up multilayered imagery with rich, textural surfaces.
chris's personal involvement with farming and the landscape give him a  special empathy with his native britain...
emmanuel cooper makes individual pots, mostly in porcelain, including bowls and jug forms.
hence, the tension of a matt exterior against the glazed interior. ...
using impressive technical ability, she makes large stoneware hand-built vessels of a sculptural nature, creating great visual impact.
i aspire to capture characteristics of an environment in an object...
edinburgh based artist niall mcwilliam paints contemporary themes which enable the spectator to draw upon a veriety of experiences.
he was recently elected to the royal cambrian academy... collins, megan (view gallery).
the limitations of photography in terms of narrative capacity are at the forefront of my practice.
inspiration comes from steam powered machinery of the industrial revolution era as this awakens sensations of power and dynamism...
he makes woodfired stoneware pottery which is functional and decorative.
each sculpture is featureless and so it is the posture which says everything about the pieces, the hands being the main tools of expression.
current designs involve the use of semi precious stones such as labradorite, kyanite, aquamarine and african brass.
james was born in lossiemouth, scotland.
sam's work has been seen by some as bridging the art/craft divide and frankly these painterly, beautifully crafted pots would sit equally well in a fine art context.
liz bryant creates sculptural figures, usually impressionistic in style.
salt glaze firings continue to fascinate me, with the search to find a  balance between the predictable and the unexpected.
the flaps made his two-year-old son laugh, so eric created a lift-the-flap book especially for him about a mischievous puppy called spot... claire's ceramic practice is driven by the observation and integration of the physical and philosophical relationships between yoga and ceramics.
jim is one of britain's foremost potters he has been making high fired stoneware pottery since the early seventies.
my work is made in a range of clays such as stoneware, porcelain and earthenware.
i felt they were the ideal vessels for conveying humanity through the material, but they were also my comfort zone.
brown , sandy (view gallery).
she is a member of the  worcestershire guild of designer craftsmen.
i often mix these clays adding porcelain grog.
bowen, lara (view gallery).
he is a fellow of the craft potters association born in st ives cornwall john leach was apprenticed to grandfather bernard and father david leach between 1957 and 1963.
born in tichborne, hampshire and trained for four years in ceramics at daisei pottery, mashiko, japan, sandy brown has become an internationally recognised ceramic artist.
his  sculptural perfume bottles in stunning colours take the form to beyond the  classical.
one of the uk’s most prominent and successful artists, anita is both a painter and a printmaker and her works which depict her family life have received broad acclaim.
bremner, simone (view gallery).
as the metal cools the true colours of the panel emerge... pauline was born and educated in north london.
michael salt was born in 1955 in north worcestershire and studied at stourbridge art college.
edge richard hopes to entice you to venture into the dreamlike spaces he has created in his intense paintings and prints, inspired by sunlit groves and misty mornings and the sparkle of water
whilst developing his throwing skills he became more interested in sculpture.
you pour, you eat, you store, you serve and you drink from them, and sometimes you just contemplate them...
for the last fifteen years i have been more or less immersed in creating heads; flawed heroes, empowered virgins, or pensive deities, icon like but with iconoclastic human frailties.
ruth is a designer and maker of flowing and geometric ceramic forms and has recently graduated this year (2010) form central saint martins ba (hons) ceramic design.
jo lee is a multi-media artist based in leeds.
he studied throwing at redruth art college.
pottery for use has been central to all settled human communities...
as the kiln approaches the height of the firing the temperature has risen to a white hot 1260c... sarah ross-thompson is a fine art printmaker specialising in hand-inked, original collagraph prints inspired by the dorset landscape.
i grew up and studied photography and printmaking in holland.
i love natural forms like insects, seeds and berries...
it was traditional slipware as well as 18th and 19th century porcelain
he creates handmade prints from his wood engravings and woodcuts and also produces watercolour illustrations.
now, thelma is a full time painter and part time lecturer at walford  college.
i am attracted to patterns that repeat themselves naturally on  large and small scales and the configurations within objects that have been  transformed by time and place.
pay  attention to the clay, not only for the sake of each piece, but because the  clay will offer - or impose - its own suggestions of new forms and ways to  work...
she has participated in major shows abroad including four consecutive years at ceramic art london...
he is passionate about wood firing... bradley says " my practice as a ceramic artist begins with the act of drawing.
she is interested in our internal landscapes, and vessels and birds have become recurring themes.
he reacted, as many people do when they see abstract art - 'i could do that'.
a subject is always based on a particular species, observing the shape evolved for a lifestyle, the patterns and colours...
the past is written into the surface like  script...
whether his work is on paper, board, canvas or in clay, there is a constant and consistent creative flow...
mark uses a variety of techniques to achieve the finished look of a piece, focusing mainly on decay and repair...
kim is a designer maker based in leamington spa, warwickshire.
alyson creates sculptural and functional pieces that are a fusion of hand-built and wheel-thrown techniques with a meeting point of texture and contrast that enhance the form and structure.
his work has been described as ethereal, generous, beautiful and  evocative... cox, chris (view gallery).
maggie was born in 1943 and her training started at st. albans school of art and continued at swansea school of art & university, leading her into art teaching.
the main focus of my work is placed on function, form and surface; i am still exploring the perfect balance of function and form, possibly the reason for my passion for teapots.
andrew uses local materials- clay, rocks and ash.
michael’s work in oils typically includes landscapes, urban scenes and figures, and he finds inspiration in worcestershire, shropshire, wales and the marches as well as in cities, motorways and the sky.
i came to clay almost by chance  after leaving college...
ros is a member of the royal ulster academy and the pastel society of ireland.
subjects encompass aspects of the man-made and natural worlds from extreme close-ups to panoramic landscapes.
debus, monika (view gallery).
she is fascinated by the ever-changing landscape sculpted by the elements, particularly beside the sea.
her work celebrates friendship and the sharing simple pleasures that is implied by large dishes for food.
john wood mcsd, fsai, rbsa john was born in birmingham with a talent for art and an early apprenticeship in heavy engineering.
i am attracted to patterns that repeat themselves naturally on large and small scales and the configurations within objects that have been transformed by time and place.
he has served apprenticeships with many talented glass makers including sam  herman, giving him the basis to be the consummate artist he is today.
he found the variety of the course inspirational and then applied for, and was accepted, to study for an ma at the royal college of art...
steve grew up in cornwall and the coast has always been a huge influence and inspiration to him.
the shape and grain of the bowl influences the way any modifications are made to it.
duncan ayscough is a fellow of the cpa, a professional member of the society of designer craftsmen and is on the craft council’s selected index of makers.
i am interested in the multiple identities that exist in things and how folklore, religion and superstition in conjunction with social experience have helped to form these.
each piece is designed, handmade and signed by martin using the finest crystal  glass.
each piece is designed, handmade and signed by martin using the finest crystal glass.
mo was born in south london in 1938.
the wheel is central to my method of making and all work is reduction fired to 1280’c with glazes based on classic recipes.
she is a figurative ceramicist and her current work is based around the complexities of human communication...
lyn was born in england but soon moved to tanganyika, east africa.
blake in ceramics and jewellery at central school and janette in ceramics at croydon college.
in london, she started her own workshop as a member of the barbican arts group (1975-83) and in 1976 was elected to membership of the craftsmen potters association and the society of designer craftsmen...
my inspiration textures and mark making.
about half is salt glazed in a 60 cu.ft.
i believe that smiling is very important in life, and it is my hope that the animals i create will, in turn, bring a smile to your face.
kyoko is influenced in her work by forms found in the natural world.
landscape series "the energy of landscape informs my ceramic, its influence and rhythm echoed in the marks drawn, painted and scribed directly into each form.
my work is divided approximately equally between two kilns.
lily studied sculpture at harrow school of art in london, and her figures have gone to collectors as far afield as the u.s., new zealand and australia, as well as throughout the u.k. and europe.
josie read anthropology and following graduation in 1972 taught social studies for three years.
he is the archetypal potter /painter.
she is focused on functional wares; the throwing wheel is the major tool she uses to produce them.
his work is known for its high quality,  attention to fine detail, innovative surface treatments and design ideas.
some of these pots i cut and alter to put them together in different shapes.
clark, wayne (view gallery).
he has exhibited widely in the uk and his work is to be found in stoke on trent city museum and art gallery, the w.a. ismay collection yorkhire museum york and rufford ceramics centre nottinghamshire.
the lines play with the simple, yet often surprising forms.”
on the face of it, this decision could be seen as something of an indulgence, but in fact the decision to re-enter education as a mature student demanded a good deal of courage...
the shapes she creates are like eggs and seeds, which are created organically to protect life from the elements (air and water), or like pebbles which are shaped by those same elements, through the forces of erosion...
the use of brick clay, has added to the natural texture of the work which is influenced by the interaction between myself and this primeval, unrefined material... british studio potter anita was trained as a window decorator.
liz produces hand-built ceramic pieces, ranging from large coil pots to architectural light boxes to flat pieces that go on the wall.
there is excitement in the essentialised shapes and the use of colour.
harriet graduated from bristol university with a degree in theology in 1981  and then had the good fortune to become an apprentice to alan caiger smith at  aldermaston pottery.
" carn pottery, john beusmans (view gallery).
emmanuel has been making pots since 1965, he is editor of  ceramic review and author of many books on ceramics... corbett, richard (view gallery).
i then went on to work as a conservator of ancient monuments at, among other places, arundel castle and harewood house...
she has been drawing archaeological artefacts for many years and has worked as an archaeological illustrator in york, england, in pompeii, italy and belize, central america where she lived in 20 years she has now returned to england.
my inspiration is drawn from the intricate shapes and textures i observe in the environment.
he works predominantly in eathernware, creating highly individual pieces.
john scott martin rsba john was born in nottingham and studied painting at nottingham college of art in the 60's.
he set up his first workroom in 1970 and taught part-time at an adult education institute until 1979 before moving to wales to make pots full time...
bisque-firing is in a conventional gas kiln to  1060˚c...
in the main, alison is a known as a printmaker, although she has had commissions in bronze.
"my work explores the relationship between geometry and nature.
claire is an artist and illustrator, working in enhanced watercolours, pastels and acrylics, with a solid background in art and design.
the shape and grain of the bowl  influences the way any modifications are made to it.
antley, lyn (view gallery).
neil macdonell professional member of the craft potters association born in southwark, london.
duomo wall  panels designed and handmade in porcelain and represent a fusion of early  japanese ceramic forms and italian architecture...
i use a very fine clay with no added grog.
malcolm is a photographic artist - original images and very limited (3-10)
i have also made mezzotints for this body of work...
the use of brick clay, has  added to the natural texture of the work which is influenced by the interaction  between myself and this primeval, unrefined material...
the... bull, john (view gallery).
sam makes everything on a leach or treadle style wheel.
we still have those plates.
dick bruna (1927) is one of the few living dutch artists to have achieved  worldwide fame among young and old.
lily's love of african and oceanic art is clearly reflected in her work and the early influence of brancusi and modigliani have contributed to the special character of her figures...
he is a self taught artist who works in watercolour and pen using his vivid imagination to create a world of realistic fantasy.
our attachment to familiar places and people make it difficult to settle again when everything is reshuffled...
his freely constructed vessels - hand-built and thrown - are three-dimensional abstract expressionism.
kevin was born in 1954.
he is senior lecturer in ceramics at the university of wales college, cardiff.
in others, i simply polish away the high areas to expose unexpected patterns and textures.
it is a material which has a texture and colour that i like to use without any excessive decoration...
from 1977  onwards she has always had a studio where she has developed her work...
crystalline glaze is mixed using a variety of ingredients, some measured in minute amounts...
he was educated at a local boys’ school and from 1957 to 1962 attended coventry college of art. , were born.
ninna says of her work, “i like my pots to be harmonious and simplistic - because i then have the freedom to play with them.
however he is also becoming something of a travelling potter working in gloucestershire, ireland, and wherever else the opportunity to woodfire exists.
the pottery is situated in the hamlet of keryavec, passing via the village of le clozo.
by 1993 he had acquired a diploma  in ceramics (state medal) distinction from the national art school east sydney  tafe in sydney, australia... boddy, dave (view gallery).
i find joy and inspiration in learning new skills  and in adopting them to enhance my artistic vocabulary.
pascale studied architecture in clemont-ferrand and joined the  evening classes at les beaux arts where she used charcoal and sanguines in her  drawings...
after ten years perfecting his art steve stumbled across reflexionism on a sailing holiday in croatia....
kate says- "i am trying to express that energy or feeling we experience when we have time to take in an image or view and then see it in our minds eye later on.
micki explains "the packing of a salt kiln is very intricate and time consuming... "i studied at camberwell and edinburgh college of art and have been making ceramics for over 20 years.
creating my sculptures, i experience the ebb and tide of external sensations, and internal moods and feelings more intensely; the seclusion of the studio, and the seemingly repetative working process of refining surfaces enables a mixture of compulsion and reflection, that leads to a depth and essence in my experience and the ensuing vision.
in 2000  i gained an ma in applied arts from the north wales school of art and design in  wrexham (now glyndwr university) where i currently work as a demonstrator in  appled arts.
craft-crank and ‘t’ material are used, fired to 1250°c in oxidation, only limited use is made of glazes with colour coming from metal oxides and high firing slips...
artist still life and cityscapes "my work is wheel thrown and turned with high precision.
about becky morgans
i make solely wheel thrown, high fired, porcelain objects with a functional purpose...
as soon as i discovered the process of pit firing i knew that it was a way of working that i strongly identified with, and i felt that i had found my creative direction...
jessica was born in bogota, colombia where she spent the earlier stages of her life before moving to the cotswolds.
by reuniting the fragments of my vessels to complete  the form once more, she is able to create a new language within her work.
bird baths, sculptural pieces, tiles, mugs, beakers, plates and bowls, all in saltglaze, comprise my current range of work...
she is a fellow of the craft potters association and a member of the society of craftsmen designers...
my father was an architect and my two sisters
art college seemed like a good idea and whilst there he touched clay for the first time, the date was november 22nd 1996, he immediately and rapturously fell head over heals in love...
ben says - "my ceramic work is wheel thrown and altered using  stoneware and porcelain clays.
the mind, subjected to the needs of the primordial body, drowns in desperation.
hayne says " "the unintended result, often misread as a  mistake and so dismissed, is one of the most fertile sources of new ideas.
howard coles is an increasingly acclaimed contemporary artist, producing  contemporary landscape paintings and working in the uk.
since 2000 two events have been central to my new way of working.
“my current practices are based on thrown, functional slip wares such as cheese and service platters, bowls, jugs and mugs.
after qualifying and practising as a doctor for seven years the desire to make art would not go away and in 1993 he made a complete career change turning full time to painting... rbsa
most recently edward exhibited at the danish national  ceramics gallery and gained a ‘grants for the arts’ from the arts  council england for development of his practice...
strong forms have free and vibrant linear patterning creating all-over images  of rich complexity." brazier, michael (view gallery).
"although my ideas and inspiration come from the cornish landscape, especially west cornwall, people often say my paintings remind them of other landscapes, usually a place or a time that has a special meaning for them.
i hope to make the work approachable and tactile, in opposition to the “hands-off” and precious association of fine ceramics.
i aspire to  capture characteristics of an environment in an object... cochrane, rosemary (view gallery).
alex says "since graduating from cardiff school of art and design (uwic) with a first class honours in ceramics, i went on to win ‘student of the year award 2010’ at hafield, art in clay.
working in stoneware both at home locally and here at bevere, dave makes a range of wheel thrown pots and individual pieces.
they're the really important things.....
bridget drakeford has been designing and making pottery since 1977.
in 2000 i gained an ma in applied arts from the north wales school of art and design in wrexham (now glyndwr university) where i currently work as a demonstrator in appled arts.
this body of work is influenced by architecture and the minimalist approach to form.
using a variety of techniques the application of both colour and texture  are inspired by the natural world; the seasons, landscapes and sea shores... coleridge, harriet (view gallery).
sheena trained at liverpool college of art.
for many years i had been getting increasingly tired of the constraints of slip casting and glazing and had been searching for a freer way of working.
british ceramic sculptor "ambiguity surrounds my work, through which i strive to sensitively engage the viewer.
the surfaces of my pots have developed over a long period of time...
christy keeney started his career at art school in donegal.
his watercolour work consists of delicate washes to convey an often ethereal effect, while his olil paintings, though more detailed display an eye sensitive to the changing landscape...
watching an enamelled copper panel emerging from a kiln glowing red hot after being fired at a temperature of 800°c is always an exciting experience.
"my linear slipware decoration is an innovative constantly evolving technique.
my current work looks at celebrating and enhancing the process of slipcasting and exploring how a user relates to a product by creating a narrative.
this together with the slate found in the south lakes has been my inspiration for colour.
richard trained as a ceramic artist at both bath and harrow schools of art and then established his first studio in the forest of dean, uk.
in 2002 mark rejoined the mulelney pottery full time.
sam trained at harrogate college of art and design between 1985/87 and then loughborough college of art and design until1990...
bromage, mike (view gallery).
pay attention to the clay, not only for the sake of each piece, but because the clay will offer - or impose - its own suggestions of new forms and ways to work...
her abstract painterly decoration, based as it is on her  observation of the world around her will appeal to both ceramic and painting  enthusiasts... blakely, matthew (view gallery).
the forms are either thrown or slab-built with surfaces which are pierced, stretched, carved and ribbed... fleen says i am currently pursuing my interest in wood fired salt-glaze with guidance and mentoring from micki schloessingk, with whom i am doing an apprenticeship.
"i work at the potter’s wheel, specialising in large bowls and one off pieces i also make slab rolled work including wall hangings and square dishes.
casson, sheila (view gallery).
his connection with the ballet stems from his time as a pit musician playing for the shows...
jane blackman is an established ceramicist who has exhibited widely  since 2000.
"my particular kind of stoneware differs  from that of my peers as it concentrates firstly on painting, and secondly on  the vessel and its form, and therefore i complement the simplicity of my  painting with a basic slab building technique...
recently, however, my work has become more abstract, as i simplify shapes and find patterns within the landscape.
amelia's oil paintings strive to relay the atmosphere and emotion of the landscape through a personal and momentary experience.
"my images originate from a fascination of interplay between humans and the environment.
her abstract painterly decoration, based as it is on her observation of the world around her will appeal to both ceramic and painting enthusiasts...
bayley, nicola (view gallery).
glazes tend to be  bright and rich and include turquoise blues and greens, nickel pinks and blues,  uranium yellow.
julie is a painter living and working in west wales, specialising in  figurative art and portraits.
catherine studied fine art at the university of the west of england, graduating in 1997 when she received the rebecca smith award for printmaking.
"i like exploring the  versatility of clay, the different textures and forms that can be created by  hand building and by throwing.
i draw upon ideas and sources from ancient world history to create works with a sense of preciousness, grandeur and flamboyance.
jean-paul treats the surface of the work as a painter uses canvas.
helen graduated from the university of wales institute, cardiff in 2002, with a ba (hons.) ceramics.
josie’s distinctive functional pots have been a feature of the british studio pottery scene for over thirty years...
prue trained as a painter, but preferred the more earth-bound activity of  making objects for use.
he started painting in watercolour in 1993 after a long career in aviation.
martin is one of britain’s leading glassmakers.
lyn went to art school with the intention of becoming a textile designer,  but after taking a jewellery course knew that she wanted to work with metals.
as a mature student, joy bosworth studied ceramics at wolverhampton  polytechnic, now the university of wolverhampton, where she gained first class  honours in 1987.
his new range of classic domestic ware has been designed to embrace this new environment.
portrait  sculpture has been karen bird’s main artistic interest and passion for  over twenty five years.
my  inspiration textures and mark making.
he has been a senior lecturer in the ceramics department at the university of wolverhampton, for the past fifteen years and is a fellow of the crafts potter association of england... andrew, who trained in fine art in newcastle-upon-tyne, lives and works in malvern.
duncan ayscough’s pots appear to embrace both ancient pottery forms and strong contemporary design... edward baldwin gained a first class honours in ceramics at cardiff school of art and design.
he then went on to bath spa university where he obtained a first class honours degree in 2002 and an ma from the rca in london in 2004...
he feels that above all he is a potter who responds primarily to materials and processes...
alyson creates sculptural and functional pieces that are a fusion of  hand-built and wheel-thrown techniques with a meeting point of texture and  contrast that enhance the form and structure.
bert has spent his life working with wood and it is his love of it, coupled with a deep understanding of its ways, which have influenced his work.
since that time, she has worked as a technician/demonstrator and then as a teacher on foundation courses at a number of colleges.
she makes moulds in which she casts her forms which enables her to make very thin fine forms, often using layers or inlays of different coloured slips.
the forms are then hand carved and then finely sanded to achieve a natural smooth "pebble" like quality.
colquitt, jennifer (view gallery).
stone sculptor mark trained at muchelney before spending four years in west africa as a vso volunteer, kiln building,training and making pots.
in some pieces i use wire, metals or minerals to create the picture.
david is a recently retired teacher and lecturer, although he still takes one to one woodturning classes for beginners and the more experienced enthusiast.
she studied at central st. martins school of art in london and now lives and works in stroud in gloucestershire.
nowadays i work almost entirely in aquatint (images made up entirely of tones, with no drawn lines) or make monoprints painted directly on the printing plate.
"my first scroll form was quite a small figure and not unlike the classical architectural decorative pattern, the vitruvian scroll.
in 2003 ashley howard graduated from the royal college of art, having taken time out from his career as a maker and lecturer to study for a masters degree.
these abstract sculptures have volume, line, and surface interventions as their main components...
i work in porcelain, for its innate beauty and because its smoothness allows the use of subtle textures.
i live in cornwall and this  influences my work, through which i hope to evoke a connection with aspects of  the beach, the sea, the sky, waves, rock pools, rivers and pebbles.
her designs have decorated many people's (some famous) homes and events richard dewar lives and works in locoal-mendon, france.
briggs, valerie (view gallery).
these atmospheric pots show a genuine painter/potter at work.
tania says "i recently graduated from plymouth art college with a ba (hons) in applied art, specialising in ceramics.
each piece is first thrown on the wheel, then subtly altered in form - giving the pot an individual character and strength defined by a journey of discovery...
although drawn more towards fine art, he was encouraged to continue working in clay.
his pieces vary tremendously in shape, size and nature, but are always instantly recognizable... chris's personal involvement with farming and the landscape give him a special empathy with his native britain...
using the clay with a combination of formality and spontaneity with detailed modelling, painting and surface decoration, including words, i continue to strive for clarity and fluency of ideas and feelings... 2009 graduate potter michael praed’s work ranges from large canvases of landscape and sea to smaller paintings depicting familiar, friendly scenes of cornishmen at work; from long, lonely beaches on the isles of scilly to the bustle of the newlyn fish market; but always illustrating the observational and technical skills of the artists to marvelous effect...
now, thelma is a full time painter and part time lecturer at walford college.
she concentrates mainly on the female form and over time the figures have developed into these current slender, elegant shapes, which she sees as contemplative and introspective.
combined process on paper ‘a painting is an accumulation of time apprehended instantaneously’ peter lanyon
karinna is a contemporary artist / maker with a passion for creating unique objects from hot glass.
he was fortunate enough to have cornish painter john piper as his art teacher at school and through him gained a place at falmouth school of art in 1987...
she is an award-winning artist, designer/maker of quality/quirky, funky/fresh, stylish/sassy handblown glass.
matthew chambers’ initial ceramic training was acquired with philip  wood in frome, somerset in the six years up to1999.
i then underwent a residency at kelly college in devon, where i am creating a new body of work investigating the importance of both form and texture when producing a well balanced piece.
using the vessel form she  fragments it and combines the organic lines and smoke firing process to create  non-functional vessels.
i reference elements of ancient artefacts, period garden ornamentation and architecture in my work.
since studying at northampton school of art, ian has worked as a teacher, freelance designer, finished artist/illustrator and computer printmaker.
kevin spent much time in the united states between  1978 and 1991 working in various pottery related positions and filling in time  between ceramic jobs as a truck driver...
the composite pieces i make are hand built in a white stoneware clay using a combination of pinching, press moulding and slab building processes.
dally, mark (view gallery).
i use two ancient techniques of decoration on my work - slip trailing and sgraffito.
one day, on a visit to salisbury cathedral, i was particularly struck by “the prisoners of conscience” window, painted by gabriel loire... i am a glass & enamel artist & work from home in solihull, west midlands.
"for many years i painted landscapes in the traditional manner, mainly using oils.
make one lean one way, have an unusual detail one another.
these designs are inspired by fairy tales, imagination and the surreal.
linda enjoys working in an experimental way, allowing herself the flexibility to adapt her style to suit each subject, whether it is a study of a delicate flower or a robust landscape.
after a successful career as an occupational therapist, jean gained a first-class degree in ceramics from wolverhampton university.
he trained to be a ceramicist and spent a number of years as an education technician at camden arts centre.
however by 1979 she had completed ceramic training at chesterfield college of art and set up a workshop and retail outlet in derbyshire.
current work includes bottles, jugs, vases, platters and bowls.
he works using drawing and painting as the starting point for his prints, mainly lithographs and silkscreen prints.
working with animals makes me very happy, and one way i can share this is through the ceramics i make.
cook, alyson (view gallery).
lyn went to art school with the intention of becoming a textile designer, but after taking a jewellery course knew that she wanted to work with metals.
since 1987, christiane has lived and worked in munich in her own studio.
clementina van der walt is a well-known south african studio potter, based in cape town, who has in the past three decades lectured, run a production studio and held many one-person shows.
cloning and collaging these, sometimes with photographic elements, i create contemporary artworks in ceramic and printed form.
i am particularly inspired by modernist  structures, with their clean sharp lines, simplicity of form and innovative use  of materials... beavan, jenny (view gallery).
during her introductory course, she was hooked on ceramics and decided to take a ba in ceramics.
jim robison’s primary focus is the creation of ceramics with sculptural and architectural applications.
his balance of strong form with highly detailed surfaces creates aesthetically pleasing vessels in his recognisable signature style...
i aim to achieve simple, practical, thoughtful pots which are comfortable in handling and tactile in nature to encourage everyday use... member of worcestershire guild of designer craftsmen.
she studied at camberwell college and graduated from the university of brighton in 2004.
“i think that if people live with beautiful or stimulating things they will live, breathe, and think better.
steve woodhead has been potting since 1980, and became a fellow of the craft potters association in 1993.
each piece may take 3 - 4 months to complete while much of andrews past work could be described as sculptural, it is only in the last few years that he has started designing and making pieces that sell through sculpture parks and gardens...
since the 1960's he has been teaching and lecturing in many english art colleges.
these are difficult, even fearful times, and i am reminded of a poem i wrote that ended: “and what was there before time or magic
malcolm's stylistic output ranges from naturalistic to modern.
stephen makes and fires much of his work in west wales with joe finch.
my interest in architecture, in particular steel bridges has caused me to look closer at the intricate and complex patterns that they portray.
by combining clays and layering slips, using a range of techniques, i am able to create dramatic effects without the use of glazes... julie is a painter living and working in west wales, specialising in figurative art and portraits.
"my current practice explores the notion of perceived reality.
i am a designer-maker based in bristol combining the traditional craft of enamelling with fresh, clean, contemporary design.
ceramics has been a family tradition spanning four generations at least.
i am based in prestatyn, north wales, where i have a small workshop and wood-kiln...
these have been steadily evolving since 2000 when i started experimenting with open handles as an alternative to the closed loops conventionally used in ceramics...
he was born in hampshire and moved to cornwall with his parents who ran a retail pottery shop.
billy adams is a potter whose work deals with exploring ad experimenting with aspects of landscape.
work is slab built using clay (st. thomas’ body).
takeshi yasuda is one of the most celebrated potters working in europe today.
"my  linear slipware decoration is an innovative constantly evolving technique.
growing up in malvern in an area of outstanding beauty,  he began to understand the peace, power and solitude of the landscape and has  been inspired ever since... brierley, ben (view gallery).
" penny uses porcelain and bone china clays.
laura produces a range of work combining ceramic and mixed-media such as wood and metal.
tessa is new to the gallery although no stranger to the ceramic scene.
after moving to france in 1979, he created his first french atelier in avessac, loire-atlantique... hayley’s work is a selection of ceramic jewellery pieces handmade
my work is intent on capturing an unresolved narrative, one which permits the viewer to transfer a personal narrative and reflect on the still image... "originally from yorkshire, i trained at camberwell school of art and the r.c.a., and now live and work in sussex.
" john m beusmans set up carn pottery in an old cornish chapel in the early 1970s.
he trained at camberwell school of arts and crafts and in 1979 graduated with b.a hons.
his work enjoys worldwide esteem... a kinship with nature is visible in jill fanshawe kato’s unusual ceramics.
isla’s work is rooted in the earth, the body and the places we call home.
salt glaze firings continue to fascinate me, with the search to find a balance between the predictable and the unexpected.
it was at this time that she met her husband david and they started to lay the foundation for the establishment of their workshop which they have had now for forty years...
the last few years have seen him return to using lustre, this time applied to a terra sigillata surface, raku fired and smoked.
intricate beauty and hidden details of nature play a central role in my work, coupled with a love of throwing as a means of making.
this has transmuted into pieces that have a life of their own depicting the  place that women have in the natural world.
peter tends to use temperate hardwoods, mainly ash and sycamore... porcellana & duomo by michelle arieu is about crafting an evocative, abstract, illustrative architectural habitat in porcelain.
ronnie was born in glasgow.
i relish in all forms of glass, therefore i enjoy using different mediums in my canvases & leaded panels...
cooper , prue (view gallery).
as one of very few potters in the uk making contemporary wood fired salt glazed work.
using traditional glass blowing and hand forming skills combined with modern design, karinna creates elegant pieces ranging from luxury giftware to one off art forms...
my jewellery has an asymmetrical, organic look with an elegant touch.
i have been designing and making ceramics since 1987.
as a child he dreamed of being a painter, and he regards himself as one of life’s lucky ones, gifted with the talent to turn dreams into reality...
her work celebrates friendship and the sharing simple  pleasures that is implied by large dishes for food.
the alchemy of transformation from organic to permanent and my experiments with naturally occurring patterning has led to individual pieces which combine elements of the archaic and contemporary...
recently she has also turned her attention to formal gardens and  allotments, and landscapes passed through on road trips... braganza, loretta work is slab built using clay (st. thomas’ body).
she is probably most renowned for her floral paintings that seem to capture a moment in time.
during the late 1970s françoise studied ceramics at the ateliers de fontblanche in vitrolles, then she travelled in asia (1981-1982).
john m beusmans set up carn pottery in an old cornish chapel in the early  1970s.
his first encounters with woodfiring began because he had no other way to fire his work.
she has used her ma to develop her professional practise and to branch out into different areas of artnottage; developing work to be encountered in different realms such as public art and gallery pieces...
since 2005, as well as making, he has worked as a part-time teacher of ceramics in various schools in east lothian...
i paint with a mixture of porcelain slip, recycled nylon fibre and newsprint, flax fibre and an assortment of oxides and stains...
shirley hughes is one of the most highly-respected children’s authors and illustrators working today.
"my pieces are slip-cast or press moulded white earthenware with hand painted 'tin-glaze' decoration.
not only are they subjected to the hazards of raku firing, involving huge shocks in temperature and thick, blackening smoke, but they are submerged in a flowing river for months at a time.
reflecting times i have spent domestically at home and away on travels, the smaller things in everyday life still move me as much as the big adventures we have away from it too...
darby, louise (view gallery).
her work is influenced by natural forms, including acorn cups and seedpods, which are reflected throughout her vessels... peter, born in worcester is a versatile multi-media painter matching medium to subjects - the figure, portraits, boats, harbours, seascapes, caricatures and cartoons.
lisa has for the last 25 years been committed to making and teaching salt and soda vapour glaze studio pottery.
"my work is about the urban environment.
she is a member of the worcestershire guild of designer craftsmen.
i subsequently went on to obtain an honours degree in sculpture at kennington school of art.
each generation has produced their own particular style of work and responded to the changing needs of society...
despite living so far inland, he managed to develop a passion for the sea, and spent a highly significant eighteen months sailing across the atlantic and then around the coast of britain.
the surfaces are treated with brightly coloured underglazes, transfers,glazes, oxides and mark making techniques."
i sincerely hope so, and that my glass will be found among them... gilles was born in quimper, france.
a format is decided, but room is always allowed for spontaneous and expressive handling of the medium...
he makes individual raku work, black and white with linear decoration or burnished muted coloured slips.
this has transmuted into pieces that have a life of their own depicting the place that women have in the natural world.
john is essentially a landscape artist; he wanders from worcestershire scenes to africa and the middle east in search of varied subjects.
niall has developed his paintng techniques allowing a layering of materials which are built up creating a visual depth to his work...
my use of local brick clay continues.
it is called kohiki (powder blown) ware...
in recent years etching has come to be ian's primary vehicle of expression.
i use the ceramic surface as a canvas for my response to a literal and abstract, personal landscape.
the work is in three distinct ranges, two of which are shown here - electric fired decorative ware and electric fired tableware...
member of worcestershire guild of designer craftsmen.
i am attracted to porcelain as a material because of its whiteness and translucency, and because of the fluidity that throwing can give to it...
jane blackman is an established ceramicist who has exhibited widely since 2000.
the development of my work into ceramics, colour and spatial perception began with a masters degree at cardiff in 2003.
she makes painted clothes, and paintings on veils of cloth’ which become installations in three dimensional space.
she is fascinated by the ever-changing  landscape sculpted by the elements, particularly beside the sea.
animal behaviour is so expressive and entertaining that i feel as if they can almost talk.
in his late teens and early twenties he began building kilns and wheels and sourcing his own clay from the local river banks.
my... vicky holds a ba (hons) and a masters degree in ceramics from cnaa, staffordshire polytechnic, now staffordshire university.
rod's is primarily conerned with capturing the effects of light and atmosphere.
she has always painted and when her first child went to school in 1986 she decided to turn her hobby into a profession.
i work both in clay and on paper, combining drawing skills, with my knowledge of human anatomy and clay technology.
he was recently elected to the royal cambrian academy...
he  was educated at a local boys’ school and from 1957 to 1962 attended  coventry college of art. , were born.
inspired by the ordinary, my interest is in taking a snapshot of everyday urban life and preserving the beauty of something that is often overlooked, using canvas and paint.
although he started creating art from an early age he had no formal art education until he was in his late twenties, graduating from north staffordshire university in 1973 with a ba fine art 1st
people are endlessly  fascinating for me, and the way we inhabit our bodies in distinct yet ultimately interconnected ways is the main focus of my work"...
bisque-firing is in a conventional gas kiln to 1060˚c...
the earliest records show a pottery at hoo in kent in 1834 where even the  street was named after my forbears.
peter archer - woodturner the surface of peters bowls are adjusted either to emphasise the particular qualities of a piece of wood or to deliberately react against those qualities.
i became deeply interested in functional domestic ware during the hnd ceramic  design course at harrow college.
"through my work i want to highlight the preciousness of life and the  rituals of food and drink with objects that are both special and tactile.
shapes and structures are of great importance.
she uses a combination of gold, silver, bronze and brass to create  jewellery that is inspired by both her travels to far away places, and the  fairy stories that she has read to her children...
he served an apprenticeship as a cabinet-maker, designing and producing quality commissioned furniture.
they are pots made contemplatively, for contemplation...
i have been working with stained glass for the past 7 years & more recently with enamel for 3 years.
however, rosemarie is especially attuned with the strong sculptural forms of pre-columbian pottery...
in 1977 they moved to wobage farm in herefordshire, creating studios and workshops... matthew chambers’ initial ceramic training was acquired with philip wood in frome, somerset in the six years up to1999.
from an early age, the powerful  visual images of paintings, sculptures and architecture made a deep impression  on peter ball...
janet hamer’s birds are first and foremost sculptures made in ceramics.
for many years i have been making tableware  for every day use... berryman, jo (view gallery).
in this exhibition he works with porcelain with a red slip, creating characteristic horizontal banding with contrasting glazed and unglazed areas.
there are only a few potters who use figurative decoration and vivienne’s work displays a number of qualities not least being a sense of humour not to say whimsy.
he coils slabs and pinches on both a large and small scale...
there can be many failures, but when all goes well the effects are stunning.
dan makes hand-built architectural ceramics using earthenware, slips and glazes.
thrown, altered and nurtured on the potter's wheel or meticulously hand built using coils, my sculptural monochromic vessels are raku fired and then left naked without glaze, only dressed by delicate decoration painted in smoke...
allman, jeremiah jeremiah says "art is a constant energy allowing me to find new  ways to express myself.
i am  attracted to porcelain as a material because of its whiteness and translucency,  and because of the fluidity that throwing can give to it... de choisy, kevin (view gallery).
she  spent her formative years there and at the age of 13 years moved to hong kong.
using three metal plates for each print is labour intensive, technically difficult, and requires a great deal of foresight... creative woodturner of international renown ray has loved making things from wood throughout his life; his first recollections are from around the age of seven.
i live in cornwall and this influences my work, through which i hope to evoke a connection with aspects of the beach, the sea, the sky, waves, rock pools, rivers and pebbles.
"i gained my degree in fine art from manchester college of art in 1971.
she first studied ceramics at the wroclaw academy of fine art in poland before coming to the university of wolverhampton to extend her studies.
my work has developed from the natural world, mainly floral forms.
i am in the fortunate position of receiving funding and support from the ‘adopt a potter’ trust...
the work is wood fired to 1400 degrees centigrade in an anagama kiln, for three to five days...
using both modern and traditional wood ash and “jun”  glazes dave aims to make traditional pots with a modern feel.
he brings a new and often rather quirky aspect to domestic ware and he has a deft decorator’s hand and an endlessly creative imagination.
the  trick is not to fool with clay's inherent desire to be expressive.
i love the symmetry and the precision of these bridges and their huge scale.
growing up in malvern in an area of outstanding beauty, he began to understand the peace, power and solitude of the landscape and has been inspired ever since...
alan studied at bath academy of art and subsequently taught art in schools, eventually teaching ceramics at saffron walden college of education.
my pieces have evolved from the use of layers and colour and i am still very much interested in hidden detail and surface quality...
richard is an established professional potter whose work has been exhibited throughout the uk and can be found in collections internationally.
she has developed her work, stirred by her coastal upbringing and sea travel... glass mosaics for the garden garden designer
i make functional pots because i enjoy seeing my work being used and enjoyed, all my pieces are created to be useful and at the same time beautiful to look at and to use...
since those first days she has been closely involved in the evolution of the group into the bevere gallery as it is today... "in 2008 i began working with potter richard godfrey at his studio in devon.
in the 1980s martin studied on the highly regarded design/ceramics course at kent institute of art and design, rochester.
she also started assisting lisa hammond whilst at college and carried on as a full-time apprentice with her after obtaining an ma.
he designs and makes mainly in wood, his work ranging from wood turning and small pieces to funiture...
based in herefordshire, i am inspired by organic forms ??
clint cannot remember a time when he was not drawing.
i am an artist/designer; art has always been an integral part of my development, from playing with melting wax as a child to juggling and acrobatic stage shows...
he makes individual raku work, black and white with linear  decoration or burnished muted coloured slips.
forms seek to utilise and respond to the  malleability of the material and work is altered and assembled while still wet.
chris has a very distinctive style, working with recycled dartington glass to produce beautiful and unique hand-blown items of the highest quality.
his introduction to the arts as a profession began with calligraphy, heraldry and hand drawn lettering... rachel says "i love to explore the rhythm and movement of throwing clay on a wheel, excited by the freshness and spontaneity of the results.
imagery derives mostly from charcoal drawings sketched on walks.
surface quality and pattern with hidden detail combined with multi viewing points have always been of interest to me.
she has worked as an illustrator with  associated freelance artists, london, and was an art teacher in scotland and  cheshire.
he started drawing in 1940 and among the books he illustrated was the series entitled zwarte beertjes (little black bears).
shells, bits of wood, plastic bottles, in fact just about anything.
comins, chris (view gallery).
she also provides paintings for tv programs and advertisements.
my prints utilise both representational and abstract elements, to produce images that portray my experience of the landscape.
i walk a great deal and usually find things in the hedgerows to inspire me.
john knapp-fisher was born in 1931.
born in tokyo, he was apprenticed to the daisei-gama pottery in mashiko between 1963-66, and established his first studio there.
being a musician as well as a potter, i bring into my ceramic work the same creative process which lies behind improvisation in music: the spontaneity and intuitive "free-ness" of the moment of creation.
kiln that is fired with propane gas and the other half in my old and trusted oil fired kiln of 75 cu.ft.
ayscough, duncan (view gallery).
nick rees born 1949, weston-super-mare, somerset nick rees works as master potter for john leach at muchelney pottery, hand-throwing a repeat range of stoneware kitchen pots and everyday tableware, as well as making individual signed pieces, mainly bottle and bowl forms in wood-fired stoneware.
my focus has also been on the changing relationship they have as they develop...
originally an illustrator and painter, he started to work with clay eight years ago and graduated from west wales school of the arts with a first class degree in ceramic art and 3d design.
when  he was at school in billericay he was interested in natural history, fishing,  pottery, acting and - to his horror now - collecting birds eggs and  butterflies...
born in lincolnshire in 1936 he studied at leicester college of art and goldsmith’s college.
he experimented with raku, sawdust firings  and saltglazing... collinson, liz (view gallery).
the  surfaces of my pots have developed over a long period of time...
now i've made a complete departure...
portrait sculpture has been karen bird’s main artistic interest and passion for over twenty five years.
jo trained as a potter in 2 workshops - coldstone pottery and campden  pottery in the cotswolds.
after an initial biscuit firing the  pieces are glazed and fired again in a raku kiln, a process which liz finds  exciting and stimulating.
her other work includes both animal and flower studies...
the rivers severn, the usk and the wye are frequently depicted in his work but of late, he has been moving to more abstract responses to rivers and estuaries...
barrett- danes, jonathan (view gallery).
duncan ayscough’s pots appear to embrace both  ancient pottery forms and strong contemporary design...
there are two main areas of her current work.
cat creates decorative and functional vessels from pewter, which are hand-raised using traditional silversmithing techniques to create the organic qualities inherent throughout my work.
warwickshire artist john pollex has worked in all areas of slip-decoration since the early seventies.
megan explores the interaction between thrown and hand built constructions and the process of reduction firing.
edward baldwin gained a first class honours in ceramics at cardiff school  of art and design.
heather established her studio in the early eighties where whe worked  designing and developing her range of ceramics.
when he was at school in billericay he was interested in natural history, fishing, pottery, acting and - to his horror now - collecting birds eggs and butterflies...
his pieces vary tremendously in shape, size and nature,  but are always instantly recognizable... carter, chris (view gallery).
this together with the slate found in  the south lakes has been my inspiration for colour.
whether it be a combination of complimenting stones or the simplicity of just one stone by itself, every piece is unique and attention grabbing.
she studied at newcastle university, completing her b.a.(hons) in fine art.
monika makes two-tone slab-built stoneware vessels which are low salt-fired  in a *reduction atmosphere.
he graduated first from camberwell art school where he was taught by hans coper, lucy rie and colin pearson and later developed his vocation in ceramics at the royal college of art.
she often make forms that link together as pairs...
my personal intuitive touch is an integral part of my pots.
masazumi’s ceramic work is varied, inspired by his drawings and illustrations of human and animal forms...
she lives and works in south wales.
following her studies in kyoto and the rca in london she has exhibited frequently in london and japan...
i work with clays from germany and french grès.
john has established an international reputation for his hand-thrown, wood-fired oven-to-table stoneware...
daniel smith produces a wide range of hand-thrown porcelain tableware.
my work is linked to painting.
she has undertaken many private commissions in  portraiture and life sculpture... bittl, petra (view gallery).
tanya gomez grew up by the south coast of england, travelled and worked extensively overseas and returned to the uk to start her career as a ceramicist.
i aim to achieve simple,  practical, thoughtful pots which are comfortable in handling and tactile in  nature to encourage everyday use... andrews, martin (view gallery).
bird, karen (view gallery).
since graduating she has worked as writer, designer, illustrator and art teacher.
after turning i burnish the clay surface until the surface is completely smooth.
the main focus of my work is placed on  function, form and surface; i am still exploring the perfect balance of  function and form, possibly the reason for my passion for teapots.
wolverhampton graduate in pottery pete attempts to produce, not just a facsimile of what he sees, but something that expresses what he and (hopefully) his audience feels.
" artist/printmaker andy was born in east london.
being brought up in africa and asia and her extensive travels have greatly  influenced her art...
in 1989, he moved to ireland with the irish artist ros harvey.
approaching ceramics as a painter, i started working with slips and was  amazed by the whole process...
i hand build using coils of stoneware clays; the physical process energised, reactive and intuitive.
his sculptural perfume bottles in stunning colours take the form to beyond the classical.
her sculptures place emphasis on balance, volume and shadow... dahl, roald very well known for his story telling and drawings.
morgen graduated from the grays school of art aberdeen in 1983 and the cardiff institute of higher education in 1984 with an ma in ceramics.
"i like to portray the human situation in a  range of emotions, sometimes using the metaphorical.
amanda’s work stems from a fascination with human nature and our ability to communicate without words.
he started painting in  watercolour in 1993 after a long career in aviation.
all of my pots are hand thrown in porcelain, one of the more difficult clays to throw, especially large pots.
he introduced her to working with reduction fired stoneware in the eastern tradition.
my work is white porcelain with inlaid lines of colored clay.
he has a quite distinct voice and the past year seems to have been a particularly prolific and creative one.
following studies in graphic design at maidstone college of art from 1949, john worked in exhibition design and later for the theatre as a designer and scenic artist.
whether you are looking for a bread crock, a chicken brick, a salt pig, a goblet or more everyday kitchen and tableware crockery, from jugs, mugs, dishes and storage jars to bowls, plates, hotpots, casseroles and tea or coffee pots, you’ll find them in our kitchenware range...
beautiful markings and fascinating features, created by the forces of nature, are taken directly from the bark of trees to distort and subtly texture the surface of my finely thrown bowls...
she has been published across the world and generations of children have grown up enthralled and comforted by her work.
in england i worked for many years as a painter and print maker.
in addition to working in metal i now also work with wood.
my work consists of vibrantly coloured, three-plate etchings and painterly monotypes, which take the landscape for inspiration.
though entirely self-taught, his style has been greatly influenced by the works of seago, wesson, fletcher-watson and yardley...
prue trained as a painter, but preferred the more earth-bound activity of making objects for use.
her sculptures place emphasis on balance, volume and shadow... very well known for his story telling and drawings.
the trick is not to fool with clay's inherent desire to be expressive.
after 20 happy years as a chef tim was forced through ill health to change careers.
his latest work primarily focuses on honey and clear glazed finishes...
ian gets inspiration for his atmospheric pictures from the wonderful landscapes and seascapes of the british isles .
i keep the forms as simple as possible, working on the subtle variations and contrasts that highlight one form from another.
apart from stoneware i also work with porcelain... “since the first moment i worked with hot glass i knew i had found the medium i would use for the rest of my career.
in 2001 she completed a master’s degree in multi-disciplinary printmaking also at uwe, and received a printmakers council award in her final year of study.
most include snippets of thoughts or poetry written during my travels or when the subtleties of an environment evoked me...
the work explores the ways in which spaces within landscape appear altered depending on the ever-chan
i explore the human condition by modelling the female form from clay; changing the mood and feeling of a piece by the positioning of a shoulder or hand...
i use a variety of coloured and textured clays to create distinctive coiled  pots which take their forms and surfaces from nature, with particular  inspiration coming from beach stones and geological strata.
enthusiastic schoolteachers encouraged this early enjoyment of art, in particular clay...
i use stoneware clay firing my work under reduction in a gas kiln".
intially they worked in central london and then moved to prestwood, where the majority of the work was undecorated domestic ware.
jon was born partially-sighted and from the age of two was registered blind.
each design is intended to 'sing out to the viewers own imagination'...
and have established an international exhibition record in that field, with my work in many significant public and private collections...
the work is fired inside saggars filled with sawdust and fired to stoneware temperature.
i like to leave impressed in clay the immediacy of this process, both in texture and in form.
i am based in prestatyn, north wales, where i have a small  workshop and wood-kiln... clarke, lyn (view gallery).
he trained at harrow school of art under colin pearson and walter keeler.
orli’s approach to sculpture centres around mortality, it captures the conflict between material disintegration and intellectual fortitude.
ian gets inspiration for his atmospheric pictures from the wonderful  landscapes and seascapes of the british isles .
karen bird is a portrait and figurative sculptor/ ceramic artist working in  clay and casting in bronze, ciment fondu and plaster of paris.
this is where her ceramic objects in stoneware and porcelain, vessels and sculptural work, are created.
it was her exposure to the vibrant and bold colours of south america and her travels that have fuelled her passion for portraying on canvas the different landscapes she comes across... natural connections jan lewin-cadogan is a ceramic artist who lives and works in the beautiful valleys of west wales.
her enchanting pet portraits have become a favourite with the artist and sought after by pet lovers at home and abroad...
strong forms have free and vibrant linear patterning creating all-over images of rich complexity.
“ landscape, memories, symbols, people, meanings and associations beyond literal representation...
she is proficient in throwing, handbuilding, glaze technology, painting and drawing...
she  undertook her initial training in ceramics at the vocational school in  landshut, germany... blackman, jane (view gallery).
born in tichborne, hampshire and trained for four years in  ceramics at daisei pottery, mashiko, japan, sandy brown has become an  internationally recognised ceramic artist.
she studied illustration  at the laird school of art, birkenhead and is a graduate of glasgow school of  art and jordanhill college of education.
approaching ceramics as a painter, i started working with slips and was amazed by the whole process...
not surprising therefore that, following a degree in painting at chelsea and pottery in japan, everything she makes in clay reveals this affinity...
"all my work is individually hand crafted, thrown on a wheel and each  piece totally unique.
these are often slab-ware vessels, which are individual pieces and sculpture commissions.
in some pieces i use  wire, metals or minerals to create the picture.
he is always keen to convey mood in his paintings and likes to use a full range of tones to create strong, atmospheric pictures.
using this old technique i create square, rectangular or triangular forms.
mark’s black and white studio ceramics were a hit when he last  appeared here.
the... "all my work is individually hand crafted, thrown on a wheel and each piece totally unique.
her organic forms and painterly decoration have been important features of the ceramic landscape for the last three decades...
it is a typical black country town which was once a great hive of industry and, like most young men in that region, i went straight into engineering when leaving school.
she obtained a ba honours degree in wood, metal, ceramics and plastics from the, then, brighton polytechnic and subsequently a postgraduate diploma in ceramics from goldsmiths college.
i'm a great observer of people and thrive on interaction with others.
her work both in ceramics and painting refers to the influence of man on the environment.
it is through this physical process that i reach a greater understanding of the subject considered, and in a way, it becomes part of me... kenneth spooner was born 1942 in leek, staffordshire.
she concentrates mainly on the female form and over time the figures have  developed into these current slender, elegant shapes, which she sees as  contemplative and introspective.
my preferred sculpture technique is direct carving, whether in stone or wood i prefer not to do too much preliminary design or maquette work and enjoy the process of carving itself and like to let the form evolve from the material and dictate its own final appearance...
it is all thrown using a stoneware clay.
claire studied fine art and drawing between 1985 and 1992 in taunton, oxford, london and prague.
i have always enjoyed painting and after a long career in engineering, i am now concentrating on painting full time...
he settled in britain in 1973, combining his creative work with teaching for art schools and universities across the uk... alan yates bws alan's interest in watercolour painting was revived around 1990 when he enrolled in a watercolour painting course run by ray whitehouse, a landscape artist and article writer for leisure painter magazine...
since then he has exhibited widely and has gained many  notable achievements.
emmanuel has been making pots since 1965, he is editor of ceramic review and author of many books on ceramics...
whittling, carving and fretwork were all interests.
i have taken inspiration from closed buds and the way they relate when in clusters.
by 1993 he had acquired a diploma in ceramics (state medal) distinction from the national art school east sydney tafe in sydney, australia...
she left school at fifteen and worked as an assistant stage manager and actress in various repertory companies as well as in the west end of london, film and television.
a member of the british toymakers guild and were accredited toy maker of the year in 1998.
in 1955 she married fellow potter michael casson.
born in liverpool, she came to shropshire in 1985.
she trained at wolverhampton college of art and her early sources of inspiration were lucie rie and hans coper.
duncan ayscough is a fellow of the cpa, a professional member of the  society of designer craftsmen and is on the craft council’s selected  index of makers.
stylised images of animals and plants are cut freehand into the leather-hard clay and, after biscuit firing, are inlaid with eggshell smooth glazes maturing at 1280°c... i use a variety of coloured and textured clays to create distinctive coiled pots which take their forms and surfaces from nature, with particular inspiration coming from beach stones and geological strata.
i was born in prague, czechoslovakia.
i was always attracted by.
jo trained as a potter in 2 workshops - coldstone pottery and campden pottery in the cotswolds.
landscape is a theme in my work.
the inability to exist beyond it’s primitive self impedes the unremitting pursuit towards enlightenment...
a jane perryman five-day course and a trip to malawi, working with malawian potters, changed my whole outlook and presented me with a wealth of new possibilities...
denson, sue (view gallery).
she has since completed an ma at wolverhampton university.
"i like to portray the human situation in a range of emotions, sometimes using the metaphorical.
in 1994 lisa set up her present studio, a converted railway station in greenwich london.
ba hons brian explains “i am inspired by the abstract element within the subject, very often atmospheric and light conditions enhance the abstract quality that i am seeking...
working mainly with raku and smoke firing processes, he aims to produce pieces that are contemporary in design but which retain the integrity of a longstanding practice.
"in 2008 i began working with potter richard godfrey at his studio in  devon.
we liked his evocative seascape pots however this new work has a very different feel...
this doesn't stop him from making frequent trips to the coast to build his picture library...
all work is hand built and each piece individual.
they are reduction fired  in a gas kiln.
i draw upon ideas and sources from ancient world  history to create works with a sense of preciousness, grandeur and  flamboyance.
chris was born in worcestershire and from an early age he was aware that painting would play a big part in his life.
rachel sculpts wire into human forms to create intriguing and stunning pieces.
jo’s work is influenced by ordinary day-to-day events, life, living and ultimately our demise and is interested by the ways in which a person’s life can be acknowledged and validated...
on returning to england in 2004, i applied to study ceramics at degree level at bath spa university and have recently graduated.
this is not unexpected as when we look at an abstracted image we bring to it our visual memories.
intially they worked in central  london and then moved to prestwood, where the majority of the work was  undecorated domestic ware.
hayne says " "the unintended result, often misread as a mistake and so dismissed, is one of the most fertile sources of new ideas.
he experimented with raku, sawdust firings and saltglazing... the coast line, to the north of lancaster is very special with gorgeous colourful beaches, and wonderful sunsets.
as each item is made individually no two items are ever identical...
"i like exploring the versatility of clay, the different textures and forms that can be created by hand building and by throwing.
impressions from a donegal childhood have enabled ros harvey to capture the vivid and rugged elements of the inishowen landscape, and is the essential focus of this artist.
the elements and evolved forms in nature are the principle influences of my ceramic sculpture.
another is pattern and color and how a collection of abstract elements can create various feelings or impressions...
but, like all good stories, can be ambiguous or sinister or have an air of thoughtful melancholy.
buckinghamshire chilterns university college ba (hons) ceramics and glass "sand cast glass is a beautiful means to  create a three dimensional picture with texture and light.
lara now concentrates on her artistic practice, documenting the  plants, flowers and fruit that she has both established and inherited in her  garden.
'anita's designs' are reknowned.
the heightened colour values are realised by a series of controlled watercolour washes empathetic to the screen-printing process.
cruickshank, ian (view gallery).
editions on canvas and paper.
it's versatility a constant source of exploration and  experimentation, and have been totally absorbed with the material ever since... crouchman, clare (view gallery).
"i was born in israel and having completed a ba in history of art and  english literature at the hebrew university, came to england to study ceramics.
in the continuous framework of experience over time, the past and present find their equivalents within a working process, where a kind of alchemy takes place...
prior to that, a rudolph steiner primary education and evening classes in figure drawing from former goldsmiths lecturer sam rabin, have shaped his approach to colour and the human form...
living and working in germany he regularly shows at in london.
"i was born in israel and having completed a ba in history of art and english literature at the hebrew university, came to england to study ceramics.
he finds inspirations in varying subjects, the british countryside, whether rural or coastal, buildings, railways and aircraft...
he started drawing in 1940 and among the  books he illustrated was the series entitled zwarte beertjes (little black  bears).
he aims to conjour moods which his audience can share and enjoy.
john's pottery is distinctive.
as well as his one-off pieces, he also makes limited series of unusual practical and decorative objects.
" i have been making pots for over 20 years and exhibited all over britain.
i use stoneware clay, incorporating slips and oxides into a scratched surface.
her work is represented in several south african national collections.
after a career in teaching art in midlands' schools, david white retired early and became a full-time artist in 1996.
harriet graduated from bristol university with a degree in theology in 1981 and then had the good fortune to become an apprentice to alan caiger smith at aldermaston pottery.
when salt is thrown into a hot kiln the sodium vapour comes into contact with the particles of silica on the surface of the clay pots and melts them, forming a glaze i.e. the skin of the pot itself becomes the glaze...
working with medium format film and high resolution scanning equipment he produces stunning images up to 1.5m wide.
"as a blacksmith i graduated from the world-renowned school of blacksmithing in hereford, where i later taught.
this body of work is influenced by architecture and the  minimalist approach to form.
in the mid 1990s he entered the ba ceramics course at the university of wales, cardiff.
dan now works from his own studio and is exhibiting and selling work around the country...
objects found on travels or by shoreline often become part of the work.
he has been turning wood for over forty years...
georgina says "i’m a recent graduate of hereford college of arts.
i originally trained as a typographically based graphic designer at the london college of printing but have spent most of my working life as an illustrator, having developed my illustration ability whilst working for the then influential publisher mitchell beazley...
she is also well known locally as a pottery teacher.
he has been a member of the worcestershire guild of designer craftsmen since 1973.
my interests in nature and contemporary architecture have been incorporated to create pieces that contain the essence of natural forms in shapes that have clarity of line and beauty in simplicity... eric hill spot collector's edition prints eric hill was born in holloway, north london in 1927.
previously a collaborator with the conran shop, which featured a number of her designs, as well as widely exhibiting her work here and internationally - tessa’s work will be a new and welcome voice at bevere.
an avid walker and mountaineer, he is constantly recording the effects of light and shade within his native british isles... kaori tatebayashi kaori grew up in a family who traded in pottery in kyoto, japan a city renowned for its ceramics.
he was born in hampshire and moved to cornwall with his parents who ran  a retail pottery shop.
they contain the ideas of capturing the sublime and those immediate feelings of drama in a continuously changing landscape, which she feels are inexplicable through words and drives her to explore and express these emotions through the media of paint and line...
after graduating from art school and a career in firstly the exhibition trade and then the glass industry, where his designs are still featured on windows and mirrors in banks and public buildings, he decided to take up painting professionally...
and what will remain after will there be relics?”
it is always a pleasure to be able to introduce a new ceramic artist to the  gallery.
i paint with a  mixture of porcelain slip, recycled nylon fibre and newsprint, flax fibre and  an assortment of oxides and stains...
micki lives & works in the beautiful environment of the gower penninsular, south wales, where she makes wood-fired, salt-glazed ceramics.
she was  later to become a part time lecturer on ba courses at birmingham university... bowe, liz liz says "the work i produce is hand made stoneware tableware  intended for everyday use.
akiko produces domestic ware for everyday use.
there is always a reason for choosing a particular subject; something that stirs the imagination, something that not everyone would observe...
i try to work with simplicity in order to give those details more room.
andrew has had an affinity with clay from the moment his parents bought him his first potter’s wheel at the age of five.
i am the head of the ceramics diploma course at city lit in london.
the methodical layering of the separate washes, applied dry on dry, allows the surface to open up a much broader palette...
from an early age, the powerful visual images of paintings, sculptures and architecture made a deep impression on peter ball...
from 1977 onwards she has always had a studio where she has developed her work...
porcellana & duomo by michelle arieu is about crafting an evocative,  abstract, illustrative architectural habitat in porcelain.
the past is written into the surface like script...
he now spends part of the year back home in the midlands, and the rest of the time in scotland... blake and janette both trained at art school in london.
the inspiration for my work comes mostly from the coastline and countryside around my studio.
she bases her designs on japanese aesthetics of relativity, the beauty of imperfection, irregularity, spontaneity, and impurity.
she has written over seventy books, including dogger and the alfie series, and illustrated many more by other writers.
repetition, common to both practices, allows for a state of transcendence, described by psychologist mihaly csikzentmihalyi as 'flow', a state of complete immersion in ones activity...
she spent her formative years there and at the age of 13 years moved to hong kong.
drawing on our individual talents and strengths we have established a range of work that is both popular and collectable.
well practiced in life drawing combined with being trained as a jeweller led rachel to experiment with this medium and the results are truly captivating.
a thirty year background in precision engineering has trained me to work with a meticulous eye for tight tolerances, refined lines and defined angles.
andrews, tim (view gallery).
working in stoneware both at home locally and here at bevere, dave makes a  range of wheel thrown pots and individual pieces.
jennifer graduated from cardiff in 1994.
i use stoneware clay firing my work under  reduction in a gas kiln".
so for each of us it has its own meaning".
as a graphic designer he was working on a novelty advertising mailer with flaps to lift up.
"i am inspired to paint by the natural world - by changing seasons, odd reflections on a wet beach, wild flowers growing in unusual places, soft shades of green, lilac clouds, lichen on shore rocks.
megan explores the interaction between thrown and hand built constructions  and the process of reduction firing.
duomo wall panels designed and handmade in porcelain and represent a fusion of early japanese ceramic forms and italian architecture...
current work raw-fired saltglazed stoneware pots, thrown and hand-built, for everyday use and for ornament.
peter says "i was born in birmingham and trained at moseley school of art and birmingham college of art...
through her studies she encountered glass and her  artistic practice moved away from ceramics.
peter archer - woodturner the surface of peters bowls are adjusted  either to emphasise the particular qualities of a piece of wood or to  deliberately react against those qualities.
emma johnstone is a london-based contemporary ceramicist who creates work using the dramatic firing process of raku.
chris has a very distinctive style, working with recycled dartington glass  to produce beautiful and unique hand-blown items of the highest quality.
illustrations by anita for sam mcbratney' book guess how much i love you artist sarah says "my current work is inspired by materials gathered from my local area and also from the methods involved in processing the clay.
by reuniting the fragments of my vessels to complete the form once more, she is able to create a new language within her work.
she started and ran deddington pottery, oxon before marrying and moving to hampshire.
it is a white slipware depiction of a woman who is wearing white make-up.
dinners were eaten from plates that had been glazed in eucalyptus ash and wood-fired in a climbing kiln built by col levy in new south wales, australia.
from a young age, then, she was surrounded by the simple, elegant forms of japanese tableware.
for many years she lived in north wales, becoming very well known as a ceramicist...
banbury, clinton (view gallery).
she was born in northern ireland and has a mixed heritage with scandinavian and irish roots.
gary was born in worcestershire in the early 60s where he lives with his wife and daughter.
she was later to become a part time lecturer on ba courses at birmingham university... liz says "the work i produce is hand made stoneware tableware intended for everyday use.
during the early years in scotland she made domestic stoneware, but now works exclusively in porcelain using both reduction and oxidised firings.
i graduated from harrow in 1995 with a degree in workshop ceramics.
denmark as a studio ceramist, aase sees herself responsible for the whole ceramic process going from wedging the clay to taking the finished pot out of the kiln.
combining a background in structural engineering and a passion for working with wood, andrew's designs explore structured and goemetric forms which interpret the landscape; and express characteristics of balance, stress, light and texture...
my current ceramic work reflects an investigation into several areas of interest and an attempt to unify solutions to various visual problems.
jenny says "i am interested in movement in relation to natural change, as seen in changed states of matter - decay, disintegration, relocation and reformation - in particular the role ‘water’ plays in this action...
kevin spent much time in the united states between 1978 and 1991 working in various pottery related positions and filling in time between ceramic jobs as a truck driver...
he trained at harrow school of art under colin  pearson and walter keeler.
i produce a wide variety of functional, individual, one-off pieces including: elevated stemmed vessels, birdbaths, sconces, lidded bowls, vases, and candle bowls...
"my work is made to be used and enjoyed.
bayless, hayne (view gallery).
i make hand built vessel forms exploring a number of ideas and themes ??
walter says"the pottery tradition is at the heart of all my work.
by combining clays  and layering slips, using a range of techniques, i am able to create dramatic  effects without the use of glazes... davis, julie (view gallery).
her organic forms and painterly  decoration have been important features of the ceramic landscape for the last  three decades...
i make handmade slip cast earthenware vessels and plates.
vicky is noted for her work in porcelain, particularly for her expertise in porcelain finishes and her distinctive use of colour and form...
now she creates stylish bespoke decorations for your table and around the home.
jon is a studio potter from west wales - he gained a ba honours ceramics degree.
the figures have been developed by also looking back in time to classical sculpture and the work of rodin as well as the contemporary work of anthony gormley.
each piece is unique in how i place the transfers.
i remember becoming aware of the creative effects of fire when a neighbours wooden garage containing an ancient ash framed van caught fire... sally macdonell professional member of the craft potters association i am continually fascinated by people.
martin is one of  britain’s leading glassmakers.
she keeps interesting shaped glass bottles and makes moulds and remakes the shapes with clay, altering each one by using different types of clay, changing the shapes slightly so that each ‘recycled’ bottle is different.
his vessels and sculptures are at once a celebration of the simplicity of pure form, and also an investigation into the possibilities of layering...
i trained in ceramics/design (ba.
i think this particular process imparts a 'sense of life' within a piece.
the pieces are usually thrown,  although new work is hand-built.
ceramic work is hand thrown using either earthenware or porcelain clays, some pieces are formed using a selection of parts, which are then assembled by hand and fired up to temperatures of around 1100 degrees for earthenware and 1300 degrees for porcelain.
lara now concentrates on her artistic practice, documenting the plants, flowers and fruit that she has both established and inherited in her garden.
leaving art school i remember a tutor asking me what i planned to do, "paint" i said and that's been my life ever since...
" cheltenham-based michael brazier, a commercial officer at the ministry of defence.
he is a fellow of the craft potters association, and is on the crafts council of great britain's index of selected makers.
i was already 35 years old when i finally left my career as a research technician to follow a long cherished idea...
tim has gained an international reputation for his distinctive smoke-fired  and raku ceramics.
i take a lot of inspiration from my travels abroad, developing ideas from local art & design and from the landscape around with all its beautiful forms.
baldwin, edward (view gallery).
in others, i simply polish away  the high areas to expose unexpected patterns and textures.