the japanese tea ceremony  3.1.2.
it is well suited to the needs of a large community of voracious tea drinkers, but unfortunately is not really practical as a means of producing an afternoon cup for the solitary enthusiast.
unfortunately, nilgiri is not as distinctive or interesting  as the other two.
some truly fine teas retail in the united states for less than  us$20 per pound, which means less than 10 cents per cup.
(one source says "four to five slow breaths.")
(buds have a lighter color than fully formed leaves, hence 'golden'.)
it  usually produces a very light, delicate drink.
some people regard these stains as desirable, analogous to seasoning  a wok.
thick glass pots have all the advantages (and disadvantages) of ceramics, with the important difference that you can watch the tea infuse.
unauthorized publication is  prohibited.
what about herbal teas?
mark t. wendell p.o. box 1312 west concord, ma 01742 5.8.
ti kuan yin [tai guanyin] (mainland china)
if you like cream or whole milk in your tea, that's reason enough to use them.
at best, it can be one part of a healthy lifestyle that includes the following: not smoking or using tobacco in other forms; minimizing exposure to radiation, carcinogenic chemicals, and direct sunlight; eating a varied diet based mostly on grains, beans, and plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables; getting regular aerobic exercise; practicing self-examination for lumps or unusual areas on the skin; and getting regular medical checkups.
finally, the leaves are heated, or  "fired," to end the oxidation process and dehydrate them so that they  can be stored.
loose tea is generally whole  leaves.
some growers have had success using a  machine that acts much like a vacuum cleaner, sucking the leaves off the  branch.
you can, of  course, also use tea bags in a pot.
this infusion is the one to drink.
retail price ranges from us$20/pound to a jaw-dropping us$200/pound.
what is a tea cozy, anyway?
one  r.f.d.t reader was under the impression that these abbreviations stood for  "too good for ordinary people" and "far too good for ordinary  people."
more robust and complex than first flush.
cancer protection recent epidemiological studies
if you are brewing fresh, high-quality leaves, you can use fewer.
4.1.6. nilgiri (india) nilgiri, darjeeling, and assam are the three indian teas which the indian tea board promotes as "self-drinkers," i.e. teas worth drinking unblended.
tea professionals and connoisseurs usually prefer  to restrict the name 'tea' to real tea, so you may see the following terms used  as well: a) 'herbal infusion', which simply means a drink made by steeping an  herb in hot water.
there are many different kinds of teapots, all with their  own particular good points and bad points.
caffeine addiction is not as serious as most  drug addictions; it is certainly less serious than nicotine addiction.
cancer protection recent epidemiological studies suggest a lower tendency toward cancer in tea-drinking populations.
most of the  teapots sold in the west with the label "yixing" are not actually  made from yixing clay; still, they seem to serve their purpose well enough.
of course, as with  most things, you can spend a lot for tea if you try.
this question  is a matter of great contention and bitter disagreement in great britain.
tea-as-medicine discussions should take place in misc.health.alternative.
bags are semi-non-biodegradable additions to the biodegradable tea leaves.
the first step in tea  production is the harvest.
the harvested leaves can be processed in two ways: ctc or orthodox.
orange' is variously described as a reference to the dutch house of orange or as a reference to an old chinese practice of including orange blossoms as a flavoring agent.
the first thing to keep in mind is that these are descriptions of the dry, cured leaf _only_.
genmaicha (japan) genmaicha is sometimes called "popcorn tea" because of its unusual taste.
whichever story is true, orange pekoe leaves are higher quality than pekoe leaves.
the tea was served by pouring some of the concentrate into a serving glass, then diluting it with hot water from the main container.
advantages: easy to remove, fairly unrestrictive of  the expanding leaves.
(the only exception to this rule is japanese kokicha, made from stems of the tea plant.
sencha, bancha, hojicha (japan) 4.5.5.
supposedly, one should brew this tea with water from  that well.
like cream, whole homogenized milk is too heavy and strong tasting for most people.
there is also disagreement about whether scalding the milk is good or bad; some say it improves the flavor, others that it ruins the milk.
you may want to  place a tea cozy over the teapot during infusion in order to avoid heat loss.
low tea is served on tables which in the united states would be called "coffee tables."
even if you rinse your  pots and cups after every use, which is advisable, they will eventually build  up stains.
sikkim (india) 4.1.8.
most tea  connoisseurs are not very interested in ctc tea, since this process does not  allow for the careful treatment that high-quality leaves merit.
fine darjeelings usually have a lighter liquor than other black teas,  from a light reddish color to a bright gold.
some yunnan is used in russian caravan blends (see 4.2.3).
research in this area is still progressing, and i am not really qualified to explain the complex biochemical factors that appear to underlie tea's effects on health.
this may entail using a teapot and/or strainer (see below,  section 2.2.), since bagged tea does not come in as many varieties as loose.
those who do so may find the figure of 15g of leaves  per liter of water useful; this produces a very strong cup and should be  adjusted as desired.
use what works for you.
advantages: easy to remove and  clean.
masala chai masala chai, or spiced tea, hails from the indian subcontinent.
note (see above, 1.5.1) that oolong is graded according to quality, not just leaf size.
you can, of course, also use tea bags in a pot.
disadvantages: slight additional expense.
at least one author also claims that most current students of the tea ceremony are more interested in matrimony than enlightenment.
breaking a caffeine addiction is, mercifully, relatively easy to do.
rec.food.drink.tea is a usenet newsgroup devoted to the  discussion of tea and related beverages.
a machine expressly designed to brew tea  automatically has also recently been introduced to the marketplace.
in  addition, tea in bags goes stale much more quickly because of its greater  surface area (and hence greater exposure to atmospheric oxygen); and it tends  to pick up odors and flavors from surrounding foods (or, i'm told, from the box  it's in).
(some teapots  are specially constructed to hold a filter.)
but everything else in the preceding paragraph is absolutely true.]
i  recommend avoiding this sort of risk by always brewing tea with boiling or  near-boiling water.
the sun sensitivity  produces unusual darkening of the skin, which is called psoralen-induced  photosensitive hyperpigmentation.
my  advice is to be mindful of how much you drink, and pay attention to how you  react to a particular brand or sample of tea.
cancer protection 5.5.2.
protection against dehydration a perhaps unexpected benefit of tea drinking is the resulting increase in water consumption, which protects against dehydration.
all three kinds are made from the  same plant species.
it bears many similarities to the chinese _gongfu_ method, differing primarily in a higher level of formality and a few additional implements (notably a lipped cup used to cool the water before it is poured over the leaves).
yixing-style teapots are made in a wide range of shapes, and are not glazed.
arrange  for ways to keep yourself distracted and comfortable.
unlike other grading systems, this one actually rates the quality of the drink you can get from the leaves.
it is a more  substantial meal -- essentially, it's dinner -- which includes bread, meats,  scones, and cake.
as mentioned earlier, this is usually mostly assam--and very  strong.
the guests  wait in a special waiting room until summoned by the host.
c) shortly before the water in the kettle  boils, empty out the teapot and add the tea leaves.
some people  like their tea best when steeped for ten to fifteen minutes.
russians traditionally serve their tea in tall, straight-sided glasses, flavored with lemon or jam.
people who were raised on black tea often find green an acquired taste, but it is worth acquiring.
arrange for ways to keep yourself distracted and comfortable.
it is  hypothesized that this may have something to do with chemicals found in tea  called polyphenols (or catechins, or tannins).
i have never been a tea trader, chemist, or other kind of special authority on tea.
add tea, turn off the heat, and let infuse for two to three minutes.
makes: 2 large cups 2.5 cups (570 ml) water 6-8 green cardamom pods 5-6 whole black peppercorns 1-2 slices fresh ginger, peeled and diced 1 stick cinnamon, 1-2 inches long 1-2 cloves 2/3 cup (175 ml) milk 4 tsp sugar 2-3 tsp loose black tea (preferably india or ceylon) put the water in a saucepan, add the spices, and bring to a boil.
the  _gongfu_ method is typically used for oolong and green teas.
different teas take different infusion times.
some people recommend using filtered water immediately after it has been filtered, or re-oxygenating the water by pouring it vigorously between two glasses about five or six times.
newsgroups: rec.food.drink.tea,rec.answers,news.answers subject: rec.food.drink.tea faq followup-to: rec.food.drink.tea
genuine yixing teapots are made of a sandy clay found near the town of yixing in jiangsu province.
vintage: means that the leaves are the product of one harvest, and are not blended with any others.
if you do not have a _gongfu_ tea set, you can approximate the method with an ordinary teapot, though the result may not be quite as good.
some exaggerated claims have been  made for the medicinal properties of herbal infusions.
flowery orange pekoe' is often  abbreviated 'fop'.
i have seen recommendations  ranging from one teaspoon per 5.5 ounces of water to one teaspoon per 16 ounces  of water -- and these also do not explain how big a teaspoon is, or whether  they mean level teaspoons or heaping teaspoons.
blends most commonly include tea grown in india, sri lanka, indonesia, or africa.
lapsang souchong see above, section 4.1.5.
advantage: easy to remove and clean.
the leaves can circulate almost as freely as if they were loose.
the second infusion lasts slightly longer than the first; it has a weaker aroma but more flavor.
using a tea bag this is the most straightforward method.
it is in a sense "intermediate" between green and black, but good oolong should be judged on its own terms, and need not be compared to other kinds of tea.
********************** 2.
i can report that the most caffeinated tea i have ever had was green.
they walk through  the garden to the teahouse, which traditionally is elevated and has a  three-foot-tall door (so that guests must crawl to enter the building).
you can freeze tea for long-term storage  if you tightly seal your container and wrap it in plastic.
this practice increases the likelihood of cancer of the mouth and  throat.
most that are commercially available in the west are not labeled with varietal or place names; the label usually just informs you that it is formosa oolong and gives its grade.
some authorities recommend using cups that have been pre-heated with hot water.
4.6 pu-erh (mainland china, yunnan province) pu-erh is an unusual large-leafed tea with a characteristic earthy flavor.
it is not well suited to  indoor cultivation, though.
the chinese term  for this tea, zhucha, means 'pearl tea'.
flavored teas there are many different  flavorings (too many to list) that can be added to tea.
this list is only a tiny fraction of the varieties of green tea drunk  throughout china, japan, and india.
(i have provided the preceding instructions for informational use only; if you get an antique samovar, you should rely on the instructions that accompany it.)
discussions of herbal teas (e.g.  chamomile, sassafras, etc.) are also approved, but this newsgroup should not be  used for advertising herbal tea products or discussing tea as anything other  than a beverage.
pu-erh differs from other teas because it is "refermented," or oxidized a second time.
caffeine is also  added to many foods and drugs, including soft drinks and pain relievers such as  excedrin.
take nothing with caffeine."
not all baskets fit all teapots.
there  are not many such areas outside asia that have been given over to tea  production.
how hot should the water be?
for most black and oolong  teas, add the water just after it reaches a full boil.
some authorities even suggest leaving the lid off the teapot when infusing green tea, to let some heat escape.
(since it tends toward astringency, the short steeping time helps keep the balance of flavors right.
you can freeze tea for long-term storage if you tightly seal your container and wrap it in plastic.
before you open a  container of frozen tea, let it warm to room temperature in order to avoid  contaminating the tea with condensation.
but this does not specify how much water each person gets, or exactly how big a teaspoon is.
the mark t. wendell company sells ty-phoo and  pg tips.
using a teapot 2.2.1.
this is often (but  not always) because they drink their tea with large amounts of milk and sugar  and want to make sure that they will also be able to taste the tea.
the term 'earthy' applies almost literally, as some pu-erh  tastes remarkably like dirt.
dust 'pekoe' (pronounced 'peck-oh') is derived from a  chinese word meaning 'white'; this referred to the white hair on the leaf bud.
the term 'flowery' apparently refers to the leaf bud, since actual tea flowers are not used in the preparation of the drink.
if you are brewing more than one cup, you can try any of the following: --warm two pots and pour the brewed tea into the second pot.
there  is also disagreement about whether scalding the milk is good or bad; some say  it improves the flavor, others that it ruins the milk.
this is probably closest to what most westerners think of  when they think of tea: reddish-brown liquor; brisk, full flavor.
as above, although  this may help protect teeth, it is no substitute for brushing, flossing, and  regular dental checkups.
pointy: a liquor is said to "have  point" if it shows some desirable property--for example, briskness or fine  fragrance pungent: astringent; what gives a tea its bite self-drinking: any tea  with sufficient aroma, flavor, body, and color to stand alone and in no need of  blending for improvement stewed or stewy: poorly fired tea giving soft liquor  without "point"; also used of tea that's brewed too long and has  become bitter tarry: smoky flavor associated with lapsang souchong
there is also some talk of "scalding" the milk, but some people say that milk-first scalds the milk; others, that tea-first scalds the milk.
this practice increases the likelihood of cancer of the mouth and throat.
some people add sugar; others would rather drink muddy water than sugared iced tea.
this  is primarily important if you are using very thin porcelain that could be  cracked by the sudden addition of very hot tea.
what kind of teapot should i use?
also, you have to wash the leaves out of the pot just as with loose  leaves.
tea has been an item of trade and tribute for at least  three thousand years.
when the tea is strong enough, pour over ice and  serve.
there are many different versions of the tea ceremony, varying
still, i must admit that some tea (especially long-steeped english or irish breakfast) takes very well to a bit of milk.
-- cream is too heavy for most teas and should be avoided in favor of milk.
experiment and see how you prefer it.
caffeine is very water-soluble, more so than many of  the flavor components in tea.
this is like a coffee filter and fits into a plastic holder.
the tiny pot is filled halfway (or more) with leaves.
what about tea balls, strainers, etc.?
earl grey 4.3.3 lapsang  souchong 4.3.4.
note (see above,  1.5.1) that oolong is graded according to quality, not just leaf size.
what kind of  teapot should i use?
some people  add sugar; others would rather drink muddy water than sugared iced tea.
this is primarily important if you are using very thin porcelain that could be cracked by the sudden addition of very hot tea.
pour the normal amount of water over  the leaves, then infuse for twenty to thirty seconds.
tea and health 5.5.1.
when dealing with darjeelings, you may also see the following terms: estate: names the plantation where the leaves were grown.
as its  botanical name suggests, the tea plant is a variety of camellia, and like other  camellias it can be cultivated in a home garden.
although green tea often contains less caffeine  than black, in some cases it may have just as much or more.
perhaps the only thing both  camps agree on is the historical fact that the earliest porcelain cups  manufactured in england were likely to crack if very hot tea was poured  directly into them.
for medical advice,  consult your doctor.
i only list the better-known teas that are available in the  west.
many other unwanted  effects are associated not so much with use as with withdrawal.
how  much tea should i use?
add the tea or afterward.
the major differences between them are a result of the  different processing methods they undergo.
some teas can take four to five infusions, or more.
some chinese, in fact, drink it only as medicine.
english tea time 3.2.3.
archive-name: drink/tea/faq  posting-frequency: quarterly last-modified: 2001/06/11
actually, the names derive from the height of the tables on which the meals are  served.
an alternative method is to make sun tea: fill a large glass jar with water, put in tea bags or leaves, cover it, and put it in direct sunlight for several hours.
some recent models have been effusively praised for the  sophistication of their brewing procedures and the flavor of the tea they  produce.
there may be no better way to  decide how to regulate your intake.
this is so that  they can be rolled without breaking.
the highest quality white tea is called baihao yinzhen, which means "white down silver needles."
darjeeling, interestingly enough, is  often best with a steeping time between 90 seconds and three minutes.
a number of companies specialize in producing herbal  blends.
professional  tasters' lexicon this is from james norwood pratt, _tea lover's treasury_.
the mark t. wendell company sells ty-phoo and pg tips.
this variety has  orange or red liquor and a distinctive, "malty" flavor.
inexpensive yunnan is not very exciting, but i am told that the higher  quality harvests are wonderful.
but, like all ceramics, they can chip and break.
processed tea is sieved to insure that leaves of uniform  size are packaged together.
there is no standard base for  earl grey; its distinctiveness derives from the oil of bergamot.
this is the most expensive, sought-after black tea in the  world.
strain into two cups and serve hot. 3.2.
although this method is fairly popular, it may be somewhat risky, as it involves using water that has not been boiled -- indeed, water that has been left out in the sun to reach ideal bacterial-reproduction temperatures.
the first step in tea production is the harvest.
the best results  are with oolong.
this question is a matter of great contention and bitter disagreement in great britain.
drinking the tea through a piece of rock sugar held between the teeth is also common.
i have a ph.d. in philosophy from the  university of michigan.
it should be understood that tea drinking is not a "magic bullet" for the prevention of cancer.
this secondary oxidation  sometimes is used to develop a thin layer of mold on the leaves.
so a very brief infusion can remove much of the  caffeine while preserving flavor.
baozhong is used as the base for some very good jasmine tea.
also, in the bad old days, one might be offered a different sort of "white tea" in very poor chinese homes: namely, a cup of boiled water.
some  authorities recommend using cups that have been pre-heated with hot water.
the most highly valued japanese tea.
tea also contains a related chemical called theobromine, which has similar (slightly milder) effects on the body.
this may cause concerns for people who store earl grey in transparent plastic containers.
if of good quality, this is a  truly magnificent oolong, as good as many formosa oolongs.
some people regard these stains as desirable, analogous to seasoning a wok.
(i'm told that tea prices outside the united states are roughly comparable.)
even with ordinary water, it produces a marvelous tea with a complex, subtle, almost sweet flavor.
oolong, which is always large leaves, can benefit from a long steeping time such as four to six minutes.
vintage: means that  the leaves are the product of one harvest, and are not blended with any others.
you may eventually find yourself becoming a connoisseur, like many  other readers of rec.food.drink.tea.
the amount of caffeine in a cup of tea varies tremendously, depending on the  variety of tea and the brewing time.
nilgiri (india) 4.1.7.
since this method requires a large amount of tea and several small cups (typically four), it is best done for a group of oolong lovers.
although this can improve the quality  of the final product, some filtration systems have an annoying disadvantage.
tea blended with herbs 4.3.5.
whichever story is true, orange pekoe leaves are higher  quality than pekoe leaves.
formosa  oolong (taiwan, many varieties) green: gyokuro (japan) spider leg (japan)
unfortunately, high  quality loose leaf tea is typically not available in supermarkets; you will  probably have to seek out a specialty shop or a mail-order company.
middle and lower classes have a  "high" tea later in the day, at 5:00 or 6:00.
the most popular  combination is probably orange and cloves.
this method of preparing  tea dates from the time of china's sung dynasty, which lasted from the 900s to  the 1200s.
the  herb is not used in the production of earl grey.)
how  seriously should i take the time limits?
the guywan the guywan (also spelled gaiwan; also called  "chung") is a simple but elegant system used in china to brew green  and oolong teas.
then, the first infusion: the pot is filled with boiling water and the leaves  infuse for less than a minute.
the composition and proportions of a  particular blend vary from dealer to dealer, and are sometimes well-guarded  secrets.
easy to remove and clean.
the two exceptions are russia and portugal, which had independent  trade links to china.
earl grey 4.3.3 lapsang souchong 4.3.4.
oolong is produced just like black tea, except that the leaves are oxidized for less time.
also, the water cannot circulate properly around the leaves.
the whole point of drinking tea is to enjoy yourself.
some people have reported good results by using a drop of chlorine bleach in a potful of water; but you must rinse the pot very carefully after this method!
it can be held in a screened-off alcove of a main  room, but those who can afford it build a teahouse and garden.
fluoride content 5.5.3.
they  have no necessary relation to the aroma, color, or flavor of the end product.
but it's also true that some very discriminating tea drinkers have reported good results with tea brewing machines.
green tea is not oxidized at all; the  freshly harvested leaves are rolled and fired immediately.
large nurseries, particularly those that specialize in camellias, may be able to provide interested gardeners with tea plants ready for home growing.
all_ real tea  contains caffeine unless the tea has been artificially decaffeinated.
why all the fuss  about expensive brands?
where can i get british tea in the united states?
********************** 4.
the sun sensitivity produces unusual darkening of the skin, which is called psoralen-induced photosensitive hyperpigmentation.
you may eventually find yourself becoming a connoisseur, like many other readers of rec.food.drink.tea.
a) leaves loose  in the pot.
but because of their larger surface area, broken leaves also become stale more quickly.
formosa oolong (taiwan) formosa oolongs, grown in taiwan, have a long-standing reputation as the finest oolongs available.
prominent among these effects is the withdrawal headache, caused by dilation of blood vessels in the head that had been constricted by the consumption of caffeine.
this is not a major concern for people whose  municipal water is fluoridated, but it may matter to people who drink from  wells (or who use water filters that filter out fluoride).
what  are the best kinds of tea?
descriptions of popular and noteworthy teas 4.1.
tea should be stored  in an airtight, opaque container in a cool, dry place.
the leaves turn out long and thin, hence the name  "spider leg."
homesick brits can buy a few british household brands by mail order.
the name 'tea' is also used to refer to the leaves themselves; and it is also the name of a mid- to late-afternoon meal in the british isles and associated countries, at which tea (the drink) is served along with various foods.
some people also like to add  lemon.
infuse a strong concentrate of tea (i.e.  much less water than one would use for that amount of leaves) and add it to  cold water to the right proportions.
english tea time tea time has been an important feature of british life for hundreds of years.
as a result, green tea usually has more of a vegetative or herbaceous quality than blacks or oolongs.
the best results are with oolong.
this may be because  these systems produce de-oxygenated water.
bring the water to a boil again and  pour it over the same leaves, this time infusing for the normal three to five  minutes.
an alternative method is to make sun tea: fill a large glass  jar with water, put in tea bags or leaves, cover it, and put it in direct  sunlight for several hours.
those who do so may find the figure of 15g of leaves per liter of water useful; this produces a very strong cup and should be adjusted as desired.
there are almost as many recipes for masala chai as there are  drinkers of it.
placing the milk in the cup before adding the tea helped protect the cup.
irish breakfast 4.2.3.
tea and caffeine 5.6.1.
should i worry about caffeine addiction?
some tea drinkers start with filtered water, particularly in areas  with unpleasant or unhealthy tap water.
this is, as the name implies, made of stainless-steel mesh.
there is probably a little  margin for error, but if you put the tea on to infuse and forget about it for  half an hour, start over again.
when the fire was hot, one would place a teapot on top of the pipe and brew a strong concentrate of tea.
what are  some of the most popular varieties?
one is that it can attack some  kinds of transparent plastic, causing them to become opaque.
g) add whatever accessories you  prefer: milk, sugar, honey, lemon, etc.
worse,  most of the darjeeling contained in these blends is harvested during the rainy  season and so is less flavorful.
still, i must admit that some tea (especially long-steeped english  or irish breakfast) takes very well to a bit of milk.
formosa oolong (taiwan) 4.4.2.
where did the name 'tea' come from?
well-twisted: fully withered, tightly rolled leaf wiry: stylish, thin whole leaves; quite often op grade infusion: agony of the leaves: unfolding of the leaves in boiling water tea liquor: bakey: unpleasant taste caused by firing leaf at too high a temperature; not as strong as "burnt" biscuity: pleasant characteristic often associated with assam teas bite: not a taste but the astringent puckeriness that gives black tea its refreshing quality body: viscosity, the strength of the liquor combined with its weight on the tongue; body may be "full," "light," etc. brassy: unpleasant tang caused by under-withering bright: sparkling liquor characteristic of all fine teas; also describes taste opposite of "dull" brisk: lively, not flat complex: the harmonious melange of various flavors characteristic of the very finest teas dull: muddy looking liquor, the opposite of "bright"; "flat" tasting flat: soft, rather flabby-bodied tea lacking "bite" and "briskness" fruity: piquant quality characteristic of good oolongs, some keemuns, etc.
this is a metal, plastic, or ceramic basket to hold the leaves.
orange' is  variously described as a reference to the dutch house of orange or as a  reference to an old chinese practice of including orange blossoms as a  flavoring agent.
why all the fuss about first flush vintage super-fine fancy golden tippy flowery orange pekoe estate tea?
assam is reliably strong, full-bodied tea; many irish breakfast  blends are entirely assam.
some people recommend using filtered  water immediately after it has been filtered, or re-oxygenating the water by  pouring it vigorously between two glasses about five or six times.
why use cold tap water?
what are its symptoms?
thin: lacking body and/or color weedy: may be applied to thin, cabbagy black teas; nonpejoratively, a green tea may be called weedy if it has a not-unpleasant vegetative aroma and flavor, varying from simple "herbaceousness" to scents of new-mown hay winey: usually descriptive of a mellow quality fine darjeelings or keemuns acquire with six months to a year or more of age; more rarely used to describe overfermented tea ********************** about the author:
first, the leaves are spread out in the open (preferably in the shade) until they wither and become limp.
ctc, which stands for "crush, tear, curl," is used primarily for lower-quality leaves.
tea-as-medicine discussions should take place in  misc.health.alternative.
one way of increasing the mineral content of  filtered water is to add a pinch of salt, as ancient tea sages did to rain  water.
popular  blends 4.2.1.
others find the ceremony tedious beyond description, and the tea ghastly and barely drinkable.
in addition, many people would rather not use soap or detergent on tea equipment, since they find that the drink picks up an off flavor.
hundreds of different herbs have been used in beverages.
the other is that it contains chemicals called psoralens, which can induce sensitivity to sunlight in susceptible individuals.
it is a grading measurement that applies only to the size and physical condition of the leaves, not their kind or quality.
unfortunately, a great deal of tea labeled 'darjeeling' consists of blends containing only 50% darjeeling.
most produce a red liquor with a subtle combination of flavors;  the aroma is often rich and fruity, sometimes with suggestions of plum and  apple.
if you intend to buy real darjeeling, make  sure you are buying 100% darjeeling, preferably first or second flush (see  1.5.1).
popular blends there are more different blends of tea than  can reasonably be mentioned in the space available, so i will restrict myself  to listing the most well-known categories.
this is a  strong, earthy green.
this may be because these systems produce de-oxygenated water.
one is that it can attack some kinds of transparent plastic, causing them to become opaque.
this is so that they can be rolled without breaking.
this can also affect the flavor of the brew.
some, however, are made with openings and elastic so that they cover  only the body of the teapot, leaving the handle and spout exposed so that you  needn't remove the cozy in order to pour the tea.
some people also like to place a tea cozy over the pot while the tea infuses, for the same reason.
however traditional and  evocative the term may be, i think it is best avoided.
most black and oolong tea should be infused in water that has just achieved a vigorous boil.
but because  of their larger surface area, broken leaves also become stale more quickly.
also, you have to wash the leaves out of the pot just as with loose leaves.
opinions differ on whether it is desirable on china, porcelain, or glazed earthenware pots.
but this does not specify how much water each  person gets, or exactly how big a teaspoon is.
some people like their tea best when steeped for ten to fifteen minutes.
some of the finest oolongs in the world are grown in taiwan.
they are called the "champagne of teas," and rightly so in most cases.
some keemuns have a delicate smoky flavor (though not as smoky as lapsang souchong).
many texts refer to the oxidation process by the misleading term "fermentation."
liquor color ranges all over the spectrum, from a pale jade green to pink to deep gold.
(although this is unusual for most tea, skittish western tea drinkers ought to keep in mind that mold is also a key ingredient in widely consumed western products such as cheese.)
if you are reluctant to kick the habit  all at once, you may want to try gradually easing yourself off caffeinated  drinks.
tea experts believe that this helps preserve some of the more subtle  components of a fine cup of tea.
two cups of tea are approximately equivalent to one cup of  plain water in their hydrating effect.
astringency is usually quite pronounced, and the aroma and flavor hint of almonds and wildflowers.
the orthodox method is a bit more complex, and is usually done mostly by hand.
also, you have to wash the leaves out of the pot.
the refrigerator is not a good place.
this method is, of course, not much use to those of us who drink tea for the flavor.
at best, it can be  one part of a healthy lifestyle that includes the following: not smoking or  using tobacco in other forms; minimizing exposure to radiation, carcinogenic  chemicals, and direct sunlight; eating a varied diet based mostly on grains,  beans, and plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables; getting regular aerobic  exercise; practicing self-examination for lumps or unusual areas on the skin;  and getting regular medical checkups.
this seasoning is certainly desirable (and unavoidable) on unglazed  equipment such as yixing-style pots (see 4.5.2.).
addiction to tea is less common than addiction to coffee,  because tea has less caffeine than coffee.
it is a common component of high-quality blends, but is well worth seeking out unblended.
the method is essentially a series of  brief infusions.
green teas, however, are generally better suited to water that has cooled off slightly from the boiling point.
it is plucked from special varieties of the tea plant known as shui hsien and dai bai.
see below for more detailed information.
disadvantages: the paper is disposable, which may have unwanted environmental consequences.
one or two cups a day seems to be  quite sufficient for good results.
some commentators complain that the contemporary emphasis is often on ritual rather than on aesthetic or spiritual experience.
dry leaf: bloom: sheen or luster on black leaf bold: large leaf or sometimes pieces of leaf too big for a grade, outsized chesty: resinous odor/taste imparted by uncured wood in tea chest common: poor quality dull: leaf without sheen, i.e., "bloom" flaky: poorly made leaf that's flat and easily broken; nonpejoratively, small grades shotty: well-made gunpowder; sometimes also applied to souchong tippy: generous amounts of white or golden tip, i.e., budding leaf
very few leaves escape.
you may in any case be able to produce something like thai iced tea simply by brewing your favorite black tea and then adding, to taste, sweetened condensed milk.
fannings are slightly larger than dust.
white tea (china) white tea is tea in which  buds, rather than leaves, predominate.
acknowledgements thanks to the following people for help,  information, suggestions, and encouragement: rob beauchamp, cathy berry,  blaize, andreas bogk, james campbell, noah coccaro, d. dalrymple, stephen  darwall, bruce de vries, michelle dick, r. n. dominick, robert dunbar, malcolm  dunn, g. s. durocher, jakris euahsunthornwattana, tom frenkel, john l. luigi  giasi, nagib z. hakim, matthew e. harbowy, duane healing, kris heidenstrom, jon  hodapp, charles hoot, matt hucke, lois-anna kaminski, robert h. klein, steven  leung, marciana, rick mendosa, vicki jean merriman, marlene mills, mike newton  (fig), jeremy rule, nobuo sakakura, roland saldanha, howard sinberg, slacker,  doug smith, mr d.f. steele, stephan schulz, tamale@primenet.com, gene wayne,  wembley, laura whaples, stephen ray williams.
prepare to be without energy and to have a headache for forty-eight to seventy-two hours.
this tea is named after a famous well which is said to be the home of a dragon.
bags are semi-non-biodegradable additions to the biodegradable tea  leaves.
the leaves are then "fired," or dehydrated.
oolong oolong is oxidized, but  not for as long as black tea.
'souchong' means large leaves, generally not from  the tip of the branch.
although it is an excellent tea,  it is not very well known (yet) and thus not quite as expensive as darjeeling.
occasionally, tea connoisseurs will express contempt for tea bags, for the  following reasons: 1.
mattcha, tencha (japan) 4.5.4.
chamomile, for example, can cause allergic reactions in people who are allergic to ragweed.
since much of the bagged tea sold in the us is marked "orange pekoe,"  many people think that orange pekoe is a special kind of tea.
black, unblended: assam (india) ceylon (sri lanka)
apparently, many americans have the impression that  "high tea" is the meal served by "high-class" people.
how much tea should i use?
then there are those of us who consider the whole dispute somewhat akin to scholastic debates about angels dancing on pinheads.
some are also rumored to give an off taste to the drink.
tea is a drink made by infusing leaves of the tea plant (_camellia sinensis_,  or _thea sinensis_) in hot water.
also, many tea retailers sell sample-size (one- or  two-ounce) containers.
is fancy tea much more expensive than standard commercial tea?
it is also easier to shake than most other addictions.
after the british took up tea  drinking, they began cultivating the plants native to india in order to have  more control over the trade.
the _gongfu_ method the japanese tea ceremony is a  metaphysical/religious ritual centered around tea.
most are designed simply to cover the entire pot, handle and spout.
take  nothing with caffeine."
also known as "pearl dew," it is a surprisingly rich, herbaceous tea.
here's what they actually stand for: tgfop: tippy golden flowery orange pekoe.
they have no necessary relation to the aroma, color, or flavor of the end product.
the name 'tea' is also used to refer to the  leaves themselves; and it is also the name of a mid- to late-afternoon meal in  the british isles and associated countries, at which tea (the drink) is served  along with various foods.
most tea balls are made of aluminum with small holes for water  circulation.
subsequent infusions  take progressively longer; you may want to add a slow breath to each infusion.
(you may also want to do this on a dry  day.)
d) guests are served a small meal including a sweet.
the japanese tea ceremony _cha-no-yu_, or "hot water for tea," is a ceremony of great antiquity and depth.
(as "kung fu," it is also the term often used in the west for chinese martial arts, which are more properly known as _wu shu_.
should i worry about caffeine  addiction?
many tea retailers sell tea in metal tins that close tightly, which seems optimal.
in addition to good genetic "parentage," the right growing conditions are crucial.
it grows best outdoors in climates like its native ones: temperate, with warm summers and cool (not cold) winters.
this is the most expensive, sought-after black tea in the world.
panyaro panyaro is a korean tradition of tea preparation.
the  ultimate guide is personal taste: it is advisable to experiment and decide on  the amount that suits you best.
even with ordinary water, it produces a marvelous tea with a  complex, subtle, almost sweet flavor.
caffeine is a stimulant drug found in tea as well as in many other  natural substances.
advantages: easy to remove and discard.
add tea, turn off the  heat, and let infuse for two to three minutes.
it is  also easier to shake than most other addictions.
although this method is fairly popular, it may be somewhat risky, as it  involves using water that has not been boiled -- indeed, water that has been  left out in the sun to reach ideal bacterial-reproduction temperatures.
the guests wait in a special waiting room until summoned by the host.
tea should be stored in an airtight, opaque container in a cool, dry place.
people who were raised on  black tea often find green an acquired taste, but it is worth acquiring.
in any case, do not drink tea that is scalding hot.
oxidation, which starts during rolling, is allowed to proceed for an amount of  time that depends on the variety of leaf.
where can i  get british tea in the united states?
their main disadvantage is that they conduct heat away from the infusion more rapidly than do ceramics.
advantages: completely free circulation of the leaves.
it's probably a good idea to use a  strong-tasting tea that can stand up to the cold.
you may want to place a tea cozy over the pot to keep the remaining tea hot.
it is very difficult (perhaps impossible) to remove caffeine from tea without degrading its quality.
disadvantages: you have to figure out some way to get the tea off the leaves once it has infused.
the major differences between them are a result of the different processing methods they undergo.
as luck would have it, the first mass marketers of tea in the west were the dutch, whose contacts were in fujian.
some methods use two sets of cups: the tea is poured into the first cup and then poured from that cup into the second cup.
most pots are not dishwasher safe.
(some  english breakfasts are all keemun.)
this is the foundation of many english breakfast blends.
but the word for tea in fujian  province is 'te' (pronounced approximately 'tay').
it is grown in zhejiang province, near shanghai.
india, sri lanka, and other south asian countries produce a large portion of the world harvest.
if of good quality, this is a truly magnificent oolong, as good as many formosa oolongs.
i have seen recommendations ranging from one teaspoon per 5.5 ounces of water to one teaspoon per 16 ounces of water -- and these also do not explain how big a teaspoon is, or whether they mean level teaspoons or heaping teaspoons.
the same is true for baozhong, lightly oxidized oolong such as tung ting, and first flush darjeeling.
real tea contains caffeine unless the tea has been artificially decaffeinated.
rolling is the next step.
bagged tea is usually broken orange pekoe and broken pekoe, fannings, and dust.
the teapot and cups are slightly larger than the small chinese implements.
iced  tea iced tea is a staple of american southern life; it is very popular  throughout much of the united states, enough so that it is now being marketed  in cans and bottles.
there is simply no reliable way, short of chemical analysis, of knowing exactly how much caffeine is in your cup; and chemical analysis is not terribly practical if you intend to drink the tea.
fannings and dust are bits and pieces of tea leaves left over from the sievings that separate out whole leaves and large pieces of leaf.
in the united states, the best climate is probably like that found in the carolinas.
some people seem to approach it more fervently than they do matters of theology.
oolong oolong is oxidized, but not for as long as black tea.
also, many tea retailers sell sample-size (one- or two-ounce) containers.
ctc, which stands for "crush,  tear, curl," is used primarily for lower-quality leaves.
the classic additions to tea are: honey; milk; sugar; lemon; milk and  sugar; lemon and sugar; lemon and honey.
(as "kung fu," it is also the term often used in the west for chinese  martial arts, which are more properly known as _wu shu_.
as always, though, this is just advice, not divine command.
the leaves turn out long and thin, hence the name "spider leg."
(in some chinese dialects, this tea's name is pronounced 'po lay'.)
young hyson (young leaves rolled long and thin) imperial (pellets loosely  rolled from older leaves)
most good  tea is not very expensive; and it may be cheaper than you think.
just put some baking soda on the wet brush and scrub.
this list is only a tiny fraction of the varieties of green tea drunk throughout china, japan, and india.
black, unblended: assam (india) ceylon (sri lanka) darjeeling (india) keemun (china) nilgiri (india) sikkim (india) yunnan (china) popular blends: english breakfast irish breakfast russian caravan scented/flavored (both black and green): jasmine (china; green, scented with jasmine flowers) earl grey (international; black, scented with oil of bergamot) lapsang souchong (china and taiwan; black, scented with smoke)
the features common to most versions are the following: a) the ceremony always involves a host and several guests (but only a few).
yunnan (china) yunnan's brown liquor has a subtle, earthy, peppery  flavor.
it was inaugurated in 1995 with the following charter:
this method is, of course, not much use to those of  us who drink tea for the flavor.
what is rec.food.drink.tea?
advantages: better circulation than an aluminum ball.
darjeeling (india) 4.1.4.
other  side effects of withdrawal, usually found in frequent and heavy users of  caffeine, are lethargy, irritability, and constipation.
if you use loose leaves and are brewing one cup, you can pour the tea through a strainer, which will catch any leaves that escape the pot.
as its botanical name suggests, the tea plant is a variety of camellia, and like other camellias it can be cultivated in a home garden.
so a very brief infusion can remove much of the caffeine while preserving flavor.
while this is a good way to brew coffee,  it is less than ideal for most kinds of tea.
it can be held in a screened-off alcove of a main room, but those who can afford it build a teahouse and garden.
what is  the best way to clean pots and cups?
baking soda (sodium  bicarbonate) works surprisingly well as a cleaning agent.
it can be used like a teapot to brew tea which is then decanted to a cup; or one can infuse the tea and then drink directly from the guywan.
connoisseurs like to have something to sneer at.
it is called the _gongfu_ method.
pour off the resulting brew and discard, retaining the leaves.
as luck would have it, the  first mass marketers of tea in the west were the dutch, whose contacts were in  fujian.
greens and oolongs do not peak but  stand immediately and fully revealed.
some terms that you may find with regard to chinese green teas are: gunpowder (pellets, tightly rolled from young leaves and buds)
be careful not to let the tea stand for too long.
it's probably a good idea to use a strong-tasting tea that can stand up to the cold.
but it's also true that some very  discriminating tea drinkers have reported good results with tea brewing  machines.
those who do want  to remove tea stains face some minor complications.
it consists of a straight-sided porcelain cup (without a  handle), a lid, and a saucer.
note that ceramic handles tend to become very hot when the pot is kept warm in this fashion.
i like the  bagged tea i buy at the grocery store.
most people find cream too heavy.
in general, the  closer a tea is to green, the cooler the water should be.
it is also good for producing a strong, robust  flavor from leaves of middling quality; in fact, for many varieties of leaf ctc  is the preferred processing method.
twankay (unrolled leaves of poor quality)
'fancy' is a term also used in the grading of oolongs.
this can also  affect the flavor of the brew.
what are some of the most  popular varieties?
if you plan to add milk and sugar to your tea, you should probably add more leaves.
this may cause  concerns for people who store earl grey in transparent plastic containers.
this tea is fired over smoking pine needles, which produces a striking smoky odor and flavor.
unfortunately, a great deal of tea  labeled 'darjeeling' consists of blends containing only 50% darjeeling.
the most popular combination is probably orange and cloves.
but the word for tea in fujian province is 'te' (pronounced approximately 'tay').
b) prepare a teapot: heat it by filling it (or rinsing it) with hot water.
this variety has orange or red liquor and a distinctive, "malty" flavor.
liquor color ranges all over the spectrum, from a pale jade  green to pink to deep gold.
most good oolongs have an intense floral  aroma and a remarkable peachy flavor.
it is green tea blended with toasted rice.
other participants assert that if one approaches the ceremony in the right frame of mind, it can be a very impressive, even enlightening, experience.
mattcha,  tencha (japan) 4.5.4.
copyright 2000, christopher roberson.
what are the different kinds of tea?
unauthorized publication is prohibited.
dust 'pekoe' (pronounced 'peck-oh') is derived from a chinese word meaning 'white'; this referred to the white hair on the leaf bud.
the faq was first written in 1995 and has gone through  several revisions since then.
other participants assert that if one approaches the ceremony in the right  frame of mind, it can be a very impressive, even enlightening, experience.
after the british took up tea drinking, they began cultivating the plants native to india in order to have more control over the trade.
some people like metal pots.
longjing [lung ching, dragon well] (china) baozhong (china) gunpowder (china) other: pu-erh (china) detailed descriptions of most of these teas follow in section 3.
thai restaurants often serve an orange drink called thai tea, usually iced.
jasmine (china) 4.3.2.
[the last sentence is a joke.
(i have provided the  preceding instructions for informational use only; if you get an antique  samovar, you should rely on the instructions that accompany it.)
can i become  addicted to tea?
since it is a stimulant, caffeine  increases alertness and quickness of response, and often briefly improves mood.
blends may be restricted to teas from a particular growing area, but in most cases are not.
this infusion has the strongest aroma.
the host brings in the tea utensils and begins preparing the tea.
it may be a good idea to store bagged tea in a tightly  closed metal or opaque glass container to help keep it fresh longer.
place the  bag in your cup and pour boiling water over it.
green tea: there is no uniform grading terminology for green tea.
other  ways of preparing tea 2.3.1.
if  you reuse containers, avoid using materials that retain odors, as the tea will  pick them up.
keemuns come in a remarkably large number  of varieties.
although it is an excellent tea, it is not very well known (yet) and thus not quite as expensive as darjeeling.
most of it is exported for use in blends.
(buds have a  lighter color than fully formed leaves, hence 'golden'.)
how seriously should i take the time limits?
some of it is noteworthy, but not much.
a  traditional bromide is that one should add "one teaspoon for each person,  plus one for the pot."
a) start with fresh, cold water.
jasmine tea ranges from abysmal stuff, where the flowers are used to mask the  poor quality of the tea, to truly remarkable (and remarkably costly)
in large doses, it can produce jitters, anxiety, and insomnia.
some exaggerated claims have been made for the medicinal properties of herbal infusions.
should i  worry about caffeine addiction?
as a result, green  tea usually has more of a vegetative or herbaceous quality than blacks or  oolongs.
systems that filter the water and then store it in a reservoir (such as the  popular brita system) often yield flat, odd-tasting tea.
well-twisted: fully withered, tightly rolled leaf wiry: stylish,  thin whole leaves; quite often op grade infusion: agony of the leaves:  unfolding of the leaves in boiling water tea liquor: bakey: unpleasant taste  caused by firing leaf at too high a temperature; not as strong as  "burnt" biscuity: pleasant characteristic often associated with assam  teas bite: not a taste but the astringent puckeriness that gives black tea its  refreshing quality body: viscosity, the strength of the liquor combined with  its weight on the tongue; body may be "full," "light," etc.
it is plucked from special varieties of  the tea plant known as shui hsien and dai bai.
add  milk and sugar and bring to a boil (or heavy simmer).
one important side effect (and a frequent cause of medical  advice to limit or stop caffeine use) is sleep disruption.
after they settle, pour the tea.
genuine yixing teapots are made of  a sandy clay found near the town of yixing in jiangsu province.
it  can be fun, though, to try a fancy tea now and then.
g) add whatever accessories you prefer: milk, sugar, honey, lemon, etc.
there are almost as many recipes for masala chai as there are drinkers of it.
the word for tea in most of mainland china (and also in japan) is 'cha'.
should i put milk in my tea? 2.2.9.1.
the water is boiled and the tea bowl and whisk are heated.
reply-to: robchr@umich.edu (christopher roberson) summary: this document answers some of the most frequently asked questions about tea.
pointy: a liquor is said to "have point" if it shows some desirable property--for example, briskness or fine fragrance pungent: astringent; what gives a tea its bite self-drinking: any tea with sufficient aroma, flavor, body, and color to stand alone and in no need of blending for improvement stewed or stewy: poorly fired tea giving soft liquor without "point"; also used of tea that's brewed too long and has become bitter tarry: smoky flavor associated with lapsang souchong
tea that's been spoiled by improper storage or packing or is simply past its prime and stale malty: a subtle underlying flavor often characteristic of assam peak: the high point of the tasting experience when, some instants after the liquor enters the mouth, its body, flavor, and astringency make themselves fully felt.
advantages: the leaves have maximum freedom to uncurl and circulate  in the water, which makes for stronger and more flavorful tea.
fluoride content tea is well known as a good source of fluoride, which helps strengthen teeth.
if you like tea in general, why not?
tea professionals and connoisseurs usually prefer to restrict the name 'tea' to real tea, so you may see the following terms used as well: a) 'herbal infusion', which simply means a drink made by steeping an herb in hot water.
there is simply no reliable way, short of  chemical analysis, of knowing exactly how much caffeine is in your cup; and  chemical analysis is not terribly practical if you intend to drink the tea.
'souchong' means large leaves, generally not from the tip of the branch.
tea and caffeine  5.6.1.
the best tea, with few exceptions, is produced in cool, mountainous regions.
the biggest  worry most tea drinkers have about these methods is that they heat the water  somewhat short of the boiling point.
advantages: the leaves have maximum freedom to uncurl and circulate in the water, which makes for stronger and more flavorful tea.
fancy [or fine] tippy golden flowery orange pekoe.
gongfu_ means something like "skill and care."
the sweetened vs. non-sweetened divide is probably the american south's version of the milk-first vs. tea-first rift among brits.
masala chai masala chai, or spiced tea, hails from the indian  subcontinent.
darjeeling (india) keemun (china) nilgiri (india) sikkim (india) yunnan (china)  popular blends: english breakfast irish breakfast russian caravan
three to five minutes is fine for most  varieties.
4.6 pu-erh  (mainland china, yunnan province) pu-erh is an unusual large-leafed tea with a  characteristic earthy flavor.
then, the first infusion: the pot is filled with boiling water and the leaves infuse for less than a minute.
most good oolongs have an intense floral aroma and a remarkable peachy flavor.
why all the fuss about expensive brands?
another  problem with filtered water is that it is usually very "soft" water,  lacking the minerals normally found in well and spring water.
thanks in particular to kai birger nielsen, the first person to put the faq in html; and to gabriel shahar, who provided many helpful comments.
thin:  lacking body and/or color weedy: may be applied to thin, cabbagy black teas;  nonpejoratively, a green tea may be called weedy if it has a not-unpleasant  vegetative aroma and flavor, varying from simple "herbaceousness" to  scents of new-mown hay winey: usually descriptive of a mellow quality fine  darjeelings or keemuns acquire with six months to a year or more of age; more  rarely used to describe overfermented tea ********************** about the  author: my name is christopher roberson.
copyright  2000, christopher roberson.
grading for oolongs goes from fanciest or extra fancy (best)  to common (worst).
one can also brew tea in a coffee maker, in much the same way that one brews coffee.
europe and the americas 3.2.1.
if you are brewing more than one  cup, you can try any of the following: --warm two pots and pour the brewed tea  into the second pot.
seriously, though,  most tea drinkers use tea bags some of the time, simply because it may not be  convenient to brew loose leaves (at work, for example).
there are several  varieties of ceylon tea, but most of the sri lankan harvest goes into blends.
the same is true for baozhong, lightly  oxidized oolong such as tung ting, and first flush darjeeling.
as many readers of  rec.food.drink.tea will testify, asking for tea in a restaurant usually gets  one a cup of tepid water with a bargain-basement tea bag floating listlessly in  it like a dead fish.
i am informed that modern russians now use electric samovars which are available in the west via mail order.
lapsang souchong (china)  4.1.6.
-- do not add milk and lemon.
some is made from baozhong tea, but most is  based on completely unoxidized green.
infusers also come in plastic mesh and gold mesh.
it often contains a bit of smoky lapsang souchong, though its base is typically keemun or yunnan.
the second infusion lasts slightly longer  than the first; it has a weaker aroma but more flavor.
oolong, which is always large leaves, can benefit from a long  steeping time such as four to six minutes.
gunpowder is rolled very tightly; the leaves look like small pellets.
it is the root of the term often used for chinese black teas, "congou."
i recommend avoiding this sort of risk by always brewing tea with boiling or near-boiling water.
if you've ever tasted oversteeped tea, you know that it is bitter  and astringent--an all-around nasty experience.
water out of the hot tap generally has health-threatening levels of heavy metals (such as lead), as well as an off taste.
other ways of preparing tea 2.3.1.
(in some chinese dialects, this tea's name is  pronounced 'po lay'.)
it may retain odors from previous batches.
commercial blends advertised as "orange pekoe" are usually blends of india and ceylon.
(hence its frequency in names  of japanese teas: sencha, hojicha, etc.)
what is the best way to clean pots and cups?
there is nothing quite  comparable in modern china (though, as noted above, the japanese ceremony  originated in ancient china).
********************** 5.
a) leaves loose in the pot.
these are chemically related but  not identical to the tannins found in wine.
the machines rapidly  compress withered tea leaves, forcing out most of their sap; they then tear the  leaves and curl them tightly into balls that look something like instant coffee  crystals.
there are different grading schemes for black and green  teas.
it  is sometimes regarded as a fourth basic category of tea, since it is  intermediate in oxidation between green tea and oolong.
how should i store tea?
this well-known british blend is scented  with oil of bergamot.
others have a vegetative quality like that of green tea.
this tea is fired over  smoking pine needles, which produces a striking smoky odor and flavor.
its color is very dark, almost red.
darjeeling, interestingly enough, is often best with a steeping time between 90 seconds and three minutes.
you may want to place a tea cozy over the teapot during infusion in order to avoid heat loss.
many tea companies also sell tisanes.
using a teapot first, a general guide; details below.
if you prefer to drink tea without additional flavorings, a two-to-four minute infusion time will probably give you the best results.
it is sometimes regarded as a fourth basic category of tea, since it is intermediate in oxidation between green tea and oolong.
(keep in mind that  european appliances need special adapters to work on american electrical  current.)
for instance, rose hips contain vitamin c; chamomile helps many people relax; and peppermint has a noticeable soothing effect on the stomach.
a cozy is primarily useful if  you make several cups at a time and want the extra tea to remain hot in the pot  until you're ready to drink it.
russian caravan  4.3 scented/flavored tea 4.3.1.
russian caravan a popular blend, russian caravan harks back to  the days when tea was hauled to russia from china on camelback.
as you might imagine, red leaf thai tea is  difficult to find outside thailand.
most tea connoisseurs are not very interested in ctc tea, since this process does not allow for the careful treatment that high-quality leaves merit.
russian caravan a popular blend, russian caravan harks back to the days when tea was hauled to russia from china on camelback.
if you do, place the bags on the bottom of the pot so that they will be struck by the boiling water as it falls on them.
if you are worried about addiction, the  best thing to do is to cut down gradually on the amount of caffeine you  consume.
version: 1.7b1 url:  http://pages.ripco.net/~c4ha2na9/tea/faq.html rec.food.drink.tea faq version  1.7
place the bag in your cup and pour boiling water over it.
although this can improve the quality of the final product, some filtration systems have an annoying disadvantage.
however traditional and evocative the term may be, i think it is best avoided.
one way of increasing the mineral content of filtered water is to add a pinch of salt, as ancient tea sages did to rain water.
it is very difficult (perhaps impossible) to remove  caffeine from tea without degrading its quality.
if you use loose  leaves and are brewing one cup, you can pour the tea through a strainer, which  will catch any leaves that escape the pot.
addiction to tea is less common than addiction to coffee, because tea has less caffeine than coffee.
add milk and sugar and bring to a boil (or heavy simmer).
one or two cups a day seems to be quite sufficient for good results.
oddly enough, most restaurants in the united states are incapable of performing this simple procedure.
early western merchants used the word to mean that the leaves so graded were exclusively plucked from the tip of the branch: the leaf bud and the two leaves below the bud.
also, there is considerable debate about whether to put milk in the cups before you add the tea or afterward.
when you buy tea in bags, most of what you pay for is the process of putting the teas in the bags, and the brand name advertising.
high-quality tea is usually sold as loose tea.
this method can also be used to  prepare a highly caffeinated drink without many of the sedative components  ordinarily found in the cup.
a tea cozy is a fabric cover, much like an oven mitt, which is placed over a teapot in order to prevent heat loss.
green tea: there is no uniform grading terminology for  green tea.
white tea (china) there are hundreds, perhaps thousands, of  different teas.
high-quality darjeelings are often graded according to a complex (one is tempted to say baroque) system including terms such as tgfop and ftgfop.
should i put milk in my tea?
even if you rinse your pots and cups after every use, which is advisable, they will eventually build up stains.
this works well for some people and poorly for others.
yunnan (china) yunnan's brown liquor has a subtle, earthy, peppery flavor.
the powdered tea is placed in a bowl and whisked to a  thick consistency.
(the most important factor in caffeine  content of leaves appears to be the climate in which the plant is grown.)
discussion relating to tea, the world's second most consumed beverage (after water), made by infusing or boiling the leaves of the tea plant (c. sinensis or close relatives) in water.
commercial blends advertised as "orange pekoe" are usually blends of  india and ceylon.
it grows best outdoors in climates like its native  ones: temperate, with warm summers and cool (not cold) winters.
tea is also grown commercially in turkey, russia, africa (notably kenya), and south america.
lapsang souchong (china) 4.1.6.
even so, some herbs do have generally recognized benefits.
bergamot is an unpalatable citrus fruit shaped like a pear; the oil is pressed out of its rind and sprayed on a blend of black teas.
not a bad guess, in my opinion.
it is marketed in  bulk as pu-erh, shaped into cakes as pu'er cake tea, or pressed into  hemispherical pieces called "tuo cha," or "bird's nest  tea."
note that green and oolong teas often benefit from slightly cooler water than black tea, so using a cozy during infusion is not recommended for these varieties.
gone off: tea that's been spoiled by improper storage or  packing or is simply past its prime and stale malty: a subtle underlying flavor  often characteristic of assam peak: the high point of the tasting experience
english breakfast 4.2.2.
bergamot is an unpalatable citrus fruit shaped like a  pear; the oil is pressed out of its rind and sprayed on a blend of black teas.
this is probably closest to what most westerners think of when they think of tea: reddish-brown liquor; brisk, full flavor.
(i'm told that tea  prices outside the united states are roughly comparable.)
for unknown reasons, at some  time in the early eighteenth century the english changed their pronunciation to  'tee'.
there are many varieties of green tea, most of which are little-known outside asia.
can i become addicted to tea?
household water heaters heat water for  washing, not for drinking.
many other unwanted effects are associated not so much with use as with withdrawal.
i encourage readers interested in further  information to consult the many sources available on the web and in journals on  health and life extension.
some  people seem to approach it more fervently than they do matters of theology.
the top grades are fanciest  or extra fancy, fancy, and extra choice (or extra fine).
rolling helps mix together a variety of chemicals found naturally within the leaves, enhancing oxidation.
japan may have a standardized grading scheme, but my information is incomplete on this subject.
the latter method is used for the cheaper varieties of tea, as it is not capable of discriminating between the high-quality tip leaves and the coarser leaves toward the bottom of the branch.
'tay' was the pronunciation when the word first entered english, and it still is in scotland and ireland.
don't bother with a second infusion; just drink the results of the twenty- to thirty-second infusion.
similar to the melior pot used for brewing coffee, the plunger pushes the leaves to the bottom of the pot and holds them there.
the samovar is a middle eastern invention now most often associated with the culture of russia and its geographic and cultural neighbors.
tisane' [pronounced tee-zahn], which in french means any herbal drink.
the name (also sometimes spelled 'lung ching') means  "dragon well."
what are caffeine's effects?
these are chemically related but not identical to the tannins found in wine.
one very popular combination, originating in morocco, is a blend of  green tea and spearmint.
popular blends 4.2.1.
the lid is used to strain out the leaves and keep the tea warm.
the chinese do, however, have a special method  for brewing tea, which can produce remarkable results.
********************** 3.
it combines darjeeling's delicate flavor and light body with assam's maltiness.
there are some brands of decaffeinated tea on the market, but unfortunately their quality is rarely very high.
if you have never used a cozy, be careful!
the amount of tea you should use depends on many variables.
what are the best kinds of tea?
it  is a grading measurement that applies only to the size and physical condition  of the leaves, not their kind or quality.
my knowledge of tea comes from reading about it and, of course, drinking it.
but if price is a concern,  start small.
english tea time tea time has been an important feature of  british life for hundreds of years.
pu-erh differs from other teas because it is  "refermented," or oxidized a second time.
is any tea grown commercially in other regions?
i have never been a tea trader, chemist, or other kind  of special authority on tea.
as always, you should  experiment to see what suits you best.
pour off the resulting  brew and discard, retaining the leaves.
what about  herbal teas?
it is possible to get a delicious cup from ugly, broken leaves; it is possible  to get an awful cup from well-handled, beautiful whole leaves.
oolong is produced just like black tea, except that the leaves  are oxidized for less time.
the  stainless-steel mesh infuser.
the acidic lemon juice instantly curdles the milk.
a number of companies specialize in producing herbal blends.
i have a ph.d. in philosophy from the university of michigan.
this seasoning is certainly desirable (and unavoidable) on unglazed equipment such as yixing-style pots (see 4.5.2.).
spider leg (japan) this is a "basket-fired" variety of gyokuro, meaning that it is fired in bamboo baskets.
loose tea, tea bags,  what's the difference?
tea has been an item of trade and tribute for at least three thousand years.
since its effects are subtle and socially accepted,  caffeine addiction can be an unnoticed and difficult to diagnose source of  health problems.
black teas black tea is produced by allowing harvested leaf to wither and oxidize for several hours before the process is halted by firing (i.e. heating and drying out) the leaf.
oddly enough, most restaurants in the united states are  incapable of performing this simple procedure.
just put some baking  soda on the wet brush and scrub.
indonesia produces a considerable harvest each year, primarily in java and sumatra.
some tea drinkers start with filtered water, particularly in areas with unpleasant or unhealthy tap water.
two cups of tea are approximately equivalent to one cup of plain water in their hydrating effect.
caffeine addiction is not as serious as most drug addictions; it is certainly less serious than nicotine addiction.
some methods use two  sets of cups: the tea is poured into the first cup and then poured from that  cup into the second cup.
e) allow the tea to infuse for three to five minutes.
the classic additions to tea are: honey; milk; sugar; lemon; milk and sugar; lemon and sugar; lemon and honey.
some common  herbs that are used as tisanes are peppermint, chamomile, rose hips, lemon  verbena, and fennel.
in addition to good  genetic "parentage," the right growing conditions are crucial.
its flavor is intermediate between oolong and green, and its aroma is strongly reminiscent of lilacs.
the best  varieties are not overwhelmed by the smoke, but retain subtlety and a mix of  other flavors.
does green tea have caffeine?
india, sri lanka, and other south asian countries  produce a large portion of the world harvest.
descriptions of popular and  noteworthy teas 4.1.
this is often (but not always) because they drink their tea with large amounts of milk and sugar and want to make sure that they will also be able to taste the tea.
don't bother with a second infusion; just drink  the results of the twenty- to thirty-second infusion.
in addition, many people would rather not use soap or  detergent on tea equipment, since they find that the drink picks up an off  flavor.
loose tea, tea bags, what's the difference?
the  samovar was traditionally a large metal container with a metal pipe running  vertically through its center.
i only list the better-known teas that are available in the west.
placing the milk in the cup before adding the tea helped  protect the cup.
unfortunately, nilgiri is not as distinctive or interesting as the other two.
greens and oolongs do not peak but stand immediately and fully revealed.
newsgroups: rec.food.drink.tea,rec.answers,news.answers subject:  rec.food.drink.tea faq followup-to: rec.food.drink.tea
(tea itself is an infusion of tea leaves.)
i am sure that i have left out your favorite tea, and i apologize in  advance.
this well-known british blend is scented with oil of bergamot.
on the other hand, it is possible to prepare ordinary tea so as to remove most (not all) of the caffeine from the finished product.
this goes for all tap water consumption, of course, not just  for tea.
jasmine (china, green)
it is also good for producing a strong, robust flavor from leaves of middling quality; in fact, for many varieties of leaf ctc is the preferred processing method.
it can be a very convivial occasion!
this is especially true of first flush darjeeling.)
some varieties are not even withered, but are simply harvested, fired, and shipped out.
in general, the closer a tea is to green, the cooler the water should be.
assam, for example, makes terrific iced tea.
longer oxidation usually produces a  less flavorful but more pungent tea.
rolling helps mix  together a variety of chemicals found naturally within the leaves, enhancing  oxidation.
then there are those of  us who consider the whole dispute somewhat akin to scholastic debates about  angels dancing on pinheads.
logically enough, this tea  is scented with jasmine flowers.
on the other hand, it is  possible to prepare ordinary tea so as to remove most (not all) of the caffeine  from the finished product.
astringency is usually quite  pronounced, and the aroma and flavor hint of almonds and wildflowers.
adjust to your own specifications.
if you like the tea you're drinking right now, then that is all that you or anyone else needs to know.
some varieties  are not even withered, but are simply harvested, fired, and shipped out.
the  whole point of drinking tea is to enjoy yourself.
when, some instants after the liquor enters the mouth, its body, flavor, and  astringency make themselves fully felt.
the stainless-steel mesh infuser.
my advice is to be mindful of how much you drink, and pay attention to how you react to a particular brand or sample of tea.
if you also drink coffee and caffeinated soft drinks or take medication containing caffeine, eliminating these from your diet will make it easier for you to drink tea without fear of troublesome habituation.
if you do, place the bags on the bottom of  the pot so that they will be struck by the boiling water as it falls on them.
specially constructed teapots are expensive.
middle and lower classes have a "high" tea later in the day, at 5:00 or 6:00.
'tay' was the pronunciation when the word first entered  english, and it still is in scotland and ireland.
it can be used like a teapot to brew tea which is  then decanted to a cup; or one can infuse the tea and then drink directly from  the guywan.
like ceylon, much of the  nilgiri harvest ends up in blends.
one of my philosophical  colleagues swears by it, saying it's the only source of caffeine that gives him
unlike most other teas, many darjeelings are sold under the name of the plantation where they were grown.
subsequent infusions take progressively longer; you may want to add a slow breath to each infusion.
homesick brits can buy a few british  household brands by mail order.
since caffeine is a mild diuretic, the benefit is not quite as great as drinking plain water; but it is real nonetheless.
assam, for example, makes  terrific iced tea.
keemun (china) 4.1.5.
prepare to be without  energy and to have a headache for forty-eight to seventy-two hours.
here's what they actually stand  for: tgfop: tippy golden flowery orange pekoe.
i like the bagged tea i buy at the grocery store.
in any case, it is an acquired taste.
fannings and dust are bits and pieces of tea leaves  left over from the sievings that separate out whole leaves and large pieces of  leaf.
after the guests drink the bitter tea, the host cleans the  utensils and the guests (more or less ritually) examine and discuss the  utensils.
scented/flavored tea (includes both green and black teas) 4.3.1.
in any case, do not drink tea that is  scalding hot.
'tippy', 'golden', and 'flowery'  are all references to the leaf bud at the tip of the branch.
the highest quality is called yin hao.
caffeine is also added to many foods and drugs, including soft drinks and pain relievers such as excedrin.
there are different grading schemes for black and green teas.
it is also called tencha (before it is  powdered).
clear glass jars are acceptable only if you can keep them in a closed cupboard away from light.
ceramic pots are traditional throughout most of asia; most retain heat well (depending on the thickness of the ceramic) and many are attractively decorated.
also,  there is considerable debate about whether to put milk in the cups before you
their main disadvantage is that  they conduct heat away from the infusion more rapidly than do ceramics.
all  forms of tea seem to have some anti-cancer effect, though the most pronounced  effects have been reported for green tea.
russian caravan 4.3 scented/flavored tea 4.3.1.
how much caffeine does tea contain?
the top grades are fanciest or extra fancy, fancy, and extra choice (or extra fine).
one of my philosophical colleagues swears by it, saying it's the only source of caffeine that gives him a "clean burn."
disadvantages: often, there is insufficient space for the leaves to expand.
this holds especially if the tea is  high-quality (e.g. japanese gyokuro).
--pour the brewed tea into a vacuum container.
some  are also rumored to give an off taste to the drink.
many varieties  of flavored teas oolong:
some people also like to place a tea cozy over  the pot while the tea infuses, for the same reason.
it was first cultivated and brewed in china, and many of the best varieties still come from china.
discussions of herbal teas (e.g. chamomile, sassafras, etc.) are also approved, but this newsgroup should not be used for advertising herbal tea products or discussing tea as anything other than a beverage.
a fabric  enclosure for the leaves.
unfortunately, high quality loose leaf tea is typically not available in supermarkets; you will probably have to seek out a specialty shop or a mail-order company.
as always, you should experiment to see what suits you best.
those who do want to remove tea stains face some minor complications.
since it is a stimulant, caffeine increases alertness and quickness of response, and often briefly improves mood.
ceylon (sri lanka) 4.1.3.
there are several varieties of ceylon tea, but most of the sri lankan harvest goes into blends.
it is a  common component of high-quality blends, but is well worth seeking out  unblended.
if you plan to add milk and sugar to your tea, you should probably add more  leaves.
genmaicha (japan) 4.5.6.
it originated in china, where its practice eventually died out; but  combined with elements of zen, it remains a fascinating part of japanese  culture.
if you have a clear case of addiction that is interfering with your sense of well-being, you should try to quit.
where  does tea come from?
roasted tea is called hojicha.
let  sit for an hour, empty, brush, and rinse.
i can report that  the most caffeinated tea i have ever had was green.
it is hypothesized that this may have something to do with chemicals found in tea called polyphenols (or catechins, or tannins).
(modern porcelain, however, does not need a milk buffer.)
here are the basic grades of black tea: flowery orange pekoe (peck-oh),  orange pekoe pekoe souchong broken orange pekoe broken orange pekoe fannings  broken pekoe fannings
flowery orange pekoe' is often abbreviated 'fop'.
the  other is that it contains chemicals called psoralens, which can induce  sensitivity to sunlight in susceptible individuals.
even so, some herbs do  have generally recognized benefits.
if you also drink coffee and caffeinated soft drinks or take  medication containing caffeine, eliminating these from your diet will make it  easier for you to drink tea without fear of troublesome habituation.
this may include  leaves picked from lower on the branch. '
the following is presented for its informational value only, and is not to be regarded as medical advice.
what are some of the most popular varieties?
there are, of course, many different  varieties within these three main categories.
most harvesting is still done by hand, which (as you  can imagine) is very labor-intensive.
suggest a lower tendency toward cancer in tea-drinking populations.
some is made from baozhong tea, but most is based on completely unoxidized green.
there are  some brands of decaffeinated tea on the market, but unfortunately their quality  is rarely very high.
the portuguese call it 'cha', the russians 'chai'.
b) 'tisane'  [pronounced tee-zahn], which in french means any herbal drink.
these are sometimes called herbal teas.
most of the tea that goes into bags is not very high  quality.
this is rarely done by hand any more; it is more often done by machine.
this variety comes  from a tea-growing area very near darjeeling.
if you have a clear case of addiction that is interfering with your sense of  well-being, you should try to quit.
sencha, bancha, hojicha (japan) 'sencha' is a generic name for japanese green tea, applying to most high quality tea other than gyokuro.
in addition, tea in bags goes stale much more quickly because of its greater surface area (and hence greater exposure to atmospheric oxygen); and it tends to pick up odors and flavors from surrounding foods (or, i'm told, from the box it's in).
some yunnan is used in russian caravan blends  (see 4.2.3).
many varieties of flavored teas oolong:
since much of the bagged tea sold in the us is marked "orange pekoe," many people think that orange pekoe is a special kind of tea.
sencha, bancha, hojicha (japan) 'sencha' is a generic name  for japanese green tea, applying to most high quality tea other than gyokuro.
assam is reliably strong, full-bodied tea; many irish breakfast blends are entirely assam.
you may want to put the leaves loose in the pot, or use a strainer, sock, or tea ball.
different teas take different  infusion times.
you should consider this water unfit for human consumption.
fancy [or  fine] tippy golden flowery orange pekoe.
thick glass pots have all the advantages (and  disadvantages) of ceramics, with the important difference that you can watch  the tea infuse.
tea is also grown commercially in turkey, russia, africa (notably kenya), and  south america.
gunpowder (china) 4.5.8.
many tea retailers sell  tea in metal tins that close tightly, which seems optimal.
this is not a major concern for people whose municipal water is fluoridated, but it may matter to people who drink from wells (or who use water filters that filter out fluoride).
the latter method is used for the cheaper varieties of tea, as it is  not capable of discriminating between the high-quality tip leaves and the  coarser leaves toward the bottom of the branch.
disadvantages: the paper is disposable, which may have unwanted environmental  consequences.
in 1995, i ordered a small  pot of yin hao jasmine at a local coffeehouse, unaware that this delightful,  high-quality delicacy was eye-popping, jaw-clenching rocket fuel.
but if you drink enough tea on a  regular basis, you can become addicted.
after two small cups, my hands were trembling and i could barely sit still.
some keemuns have a delicate smoky flavor (though not as smoky as  lapsang souchong).
its color ranges from pinkish to gold, and its peachy flavor is strong and rich.
descriptions of popular and noteworthy teas 5.
similar to the melior pot used for brewing  coffee, the plunger pushes the leaves to the bottom of the pot and holds them  there.
incidentally, tannic acid (used in  tanning leather) is a kind of polyphenol, but it is _not_ found in tea.
many texts refer to the oxidation process  by the misleading term "fermentation."
as with any stimulant, the period of enhanced alertness and  heightened mood is generally followed by a period of depressed mood and  ability.
disadvantages: the leaves are still more restricted  than they would be loose.
here's how to do it: boil enough water for  twice as many cups as you intend to drink.
like ceylon, much of the nilgiri harvest ends up in blends.
b) prepare a teapot: heat it by filling it  (or rinsing it) with hot water.
this is like a coffee filter and  fits into a plastic holder.
other ways to prepare and serve  tea 4.
iced tea is very easy to make.
english breakfast some english breakfasts  are blends of india and ceylon teas; others, mostly or entirely keemun.
some people have reported good  results by using a drop of chlorine bleach in a potful of water; but you must  rinse the pot very carefully after this method!
white tea (china) white tea is tea in which buds, rather than leaves, predominate.
unlike most other teas, many darjeelings are sold under the name  of the plantation where they were grown.
the following recipe is not claimed to be definitive; it just happens to be my favorite.
chinese greens are graded differently depending on where they came from.
ctc processing is done by machine; its name is actually fairly descriptive.
c) shortly before the water in the kettle boils, empty out the teapot and add the tea leaves.
some, however, are made with openings and elastic so that they cover only the body of the teapot, leaving the handle and spout exposed so that you needn't remove the cozy in order to pour the tea.
the host  fills the pot with boiling water and immediately drains it to rinse the leaves.
when dealing with darjeelings, you may also see the following terms:  estate: names the plantation where the leaves were grown.
mattcha, tencha (japan) mattcha is the powdered tea used in the famed tea ceremony.
for most black and oolong teas, add the water just after it reaches a full boil.
inexpensive yunnan is not very exciting, but i am told that the higher quality harvests are wonderful.
tea blended with herbs many cultures blend tea with various  herbs.
caffeine is very water-soluble, more so than many of the flavor components in tea.
white tea (china) there are hundreds, perhaps thousands, of different teas.
so the following is no  more than a brief, non-technical summary of some of the effects on health that  have been tentatively identified.
there may be no better way to decide how to regulate your intake.
tea also contains a related chemical  called theobromine, which has similar (slightly milder) effects on the body.
most black and oolong tea should  be infused in water that has just achieved a vigorous boil.
it was inaugurated in 1995 with the  following charter: discussion relating to tea, the world's second most consumed  beverage (after water), made by infusing or boiling the leaves of the tea plant  (c. sinensis or close relatives) in water.
the chinese term for this tea, zhucha, means 'pearl tea'.
(keep in mind that european appliances need special adapters to work on american electrical current.)
to make  this drink properly, you need to find the red leaf tea grown in thailand, which  produces a bright orange brew.
there is also some talk of "scalding" the milk, but some people say  that milk-first scalds the milk; others, that tea-first scalds the milk.
the host ceremonially decorates the teahouse with screens and a scroll or flowers.
it is very much like ceylon tea.
the host fills the pot with boiling water and immediately drains it to rinse the leaves.
this will help flush out heavy metals that may have collected in the water as it sat in the plumbing system.
one important side effect (and a frequent cause of medical advice to limit or stop caffeine use) is sleep disruption.
if you like tea in  general, why not?
but since you may have little information to work with other than the grade, let's look at the various grades.
the typical method uses a very small teapot, preferably a  yixing-style teapot, and small thimble-sized cups.
scented/flavored (both black and green): jasmine (china; green, scented with  jasmine flowers) earl grey (international; black, scented with oil of bergamot)
genmaicha (japan)  4.5.6.
see below for more  detailed information.
this variety comes from a tea-growing area very near darjeeling.
remove the bag when it has steeped long enough.
this holds especially if the tea is high-quality (e.g. japanese gyokuro).
traditionally, the upper classes serve a  "low" or "afternoon" tea around 4:00 pm, at which one might  find crustless sandwiches, biscuits, and cake.
grading for oolongs goes from fanciest or extra fancy (best) to common (worst).
for medical advice, consult your doctor.
where can i get british tea in the united states? 5.8.
three to five minutes is fine for most varieties.
if you are concerned about overheating these sorts of  delicate leaves, do not place a tea cozy on the pot during the infusion, as it  keeps too much heat in the pot.
tea  and health the possible beneficial health effects of tea drinking have been  widely publicized lately (1998-1999).
during the infusion, give the teapot a good shake  or stir to let the leaves circulate.
why all the fuss about first flush  vintage super-fine fancy golden tippy flowery orange pekoe estate tea?
flavored teas there are many different flavorings (too many to list) that can be added to tea.
is  fancy tea much more expensive than standard commercial tea?
it is called the  _gongfu_ method.
the japanese tea ceremony  _cha-no-yu_, or "hot water for tea," is a ceremony of great antiquity  and depth.
d) bring the teapot to the kettle and add the water.
as you might imagine, red leaf thai tea is difficult to find outside thailand.
most produce a red liquor with a subtle combination of flavors; the aroma is often rich and fruity, sometimes with suggestions of plum and apple.
genmaicha (japan) genmaicha is sometimes called "popcorn tea" because  of its unusual taste.
advantages: easy to remove and clean.
caffeine is a stimulant drug found in tea as well as in many other natural substances.
how  much caffeine does tea contain?
broken leaves infuse more quickly, which is desirable in a tea bag.
a traditional bromide is that one should add "one teaspoon for each person, plus one for the pot."
advantages: easy to remove, fairly unrestrictive of the expanding leaves.
virtually every other european language, however, retains the original  pronunciation of 'tay'.
perhaps the only thing both camps agree on is the historical fact that the earliest porcelain cups manufactured in england were likely to crack if very hot tea was poured directly into them.
is any tea grown  commercially in other regions?
(using the cozy to keep tea warm after it has finished infusing is fine.)
all forms of tea seem to have some anti-cancer effect, though the most pronounced effects have been reported for green tea.
but, like all ceramics, they  can chip and break.
this secondary oxidation sometimes is used to develop a thin layer of mold on the leaves.
the porous interior of an unglazed pot is seasoned by repeated infusions of tea  leaves, and does not need to be cleaned.
its flavor is  intermediate between oolong and green, and its aroma is strongly reminiscent of  lilacs.
early western merchants used the word to mean that the leaves so graded were  exclusively plucked from the tip of the branch: the leaf bud and the two leaves  below the bud.
ti kuan yin (or tai guan-yin) (mainland china) 4.5.
if there's a good coffeehouse or specialty tea shop in your area, you may be able to try a cup of an expensive tea without making a big investment.
this is, as the name implies, made of  stainless-steel mesh.
if you  like cream or whole milk in your tea, that's reason enough to use them.
some asian grocery stores do carry it, though.
there are not many such areas outside asia that have been given over to tea production.
also, in the bad old days, one might be offered a different sort of "white  tea" in very poor chinese homes: namely, a cup of boiled water.
this method can also be used to prepare a highly caffeinated drink without many of the sedative components ordinarily found in the cup.
high-quality darjeelings are often graded according to a complex (one is  tempted to say baroque) system including terms such as tgfop and ftgfop.
when the fire was hot, one  would place a teapot on top of the pipe and brew a strong concentrate of tea.
some are sized to fit into a teacup; some, to fit a pot.
apparently, many americans have the impression that "high tea" is the meal served by "high-class" people.
the japanese tea ceremony 3.1.2.
but if price is a concern, start small.
-- cream is too heavy for most teas  and should be avoided in favor of milk.
see section 1.5.1 for information on the grading system applied to darjeelings.
the brewing method is more or less the same as with the charcoal  samovar.
the host brings in the  tea utensils and begins preparing the tea.
be  careful not to let the tea stand for too long.
most are designed simply to cover the entire pot, handle  and spout.
this document, with many others about tea, is accessible on the world wide  web at my website, http://www.enteract.com/~robchr/tea/faq.html and at kai  birger nielsen's website, http://hjem.get2net.dk/bnielsen
formosa oolong (taiwan) formosa oolongs,  grown in taiwan, have a long-standing reputation as the finest oolongs  available.
still, caffeine addiction can  be serious for some people.
but since you  may have little information to work with other than the grade, let's look at  the various grades.
longjing [lung ching, dragon  well] (china) baozhong (china) gunpowder (china) other: pu-erh (china)
the broken grades are created by mechanized crushing of the leaves.
others find the  ceremony tedious beyond description, and the tea ghastly and barely drinkable.
in any case, you should not  add anything to green or oolong tea; they are meant to be drunk straight.
second flush: second-growth harvest.
green tea is not oxidized at all.
incidentally, tannic acid (used in tanning leather) is a kind of polyphenol, but it is _not_ found in tea.
it is a mild diuretic.
the herb is not used in the production of earl grey.)
disadvantages: the leaves are still more restricted than they would be loose.
its use in india and sri lanka broadened to mean whole leaves of  a uniform size, and this is what it generally means now.
fancy tea is generally sold loose, and  the price per cup is often lower than for commercial tea.
autumnal flush: harvest after the rainy season.
there are many different kinds of teapots, all with their own particular good points and bad points.
to make this drink properly, you need to find the red leaf tea grown in thailand, which produces a bright orange brew.
can tea be decaffeinated?
if you are reluctant to kick the habit all at once, you may want to try gradually easing yourself off caffeinated drinks.
but if you drink enough tea on a regular basis, you can become addicted.
unlike other grading systems, this one actually rates the  quality of the drink you can get from the leaves.
it usually produces a very light, delicate drink.
if you do not have a  _gongfu_ tea set, you can approximate the method with an ordinary teapot,  though the result may not be quite as good.
'tippy', 'golden', and 'flowery' are all references to the leaf bud at the tip of the branch.
the machines rapidly compress withered tea leaves, forcing out most of their sap; they then tear the leaves and curl them tightly into balls that look something like instant coffee crystals.
note that green and oolong  teas often benefit from slightly cooler water than black tea, so using a cozy  during infusion is not recommended for these varieties.
bagged tea is usually broken orange pekoe and broken pekoe, fannings,  and dust.
note that ceramic handles tend to become very  hot when the pot is kept warm in this fashion.
it is not well suited to indoor cultivation, though.
pour the normal amount of water over the leaves, then infuse for twenty to thirty seconds.
fine darjeelings usually have a lighter liquor than other black teas, from a light reddish color to a bright gold.
turn down the heat and let simmer for 5 to 10 minutes.
iced tea iced tea is a staple of american southern life; it is very popular throughout much of the united states, enough so that it is now being marketed in cans and bottles.
one can also brew tea in a coffee maker, in much  the same way that one brews coffee.
blends most commonly include tea grown in india, sri  lanka, indonesia, or africa.
is there something wrong with tea bags?
nilgiri (india) nilgiri, darjeeling, and assam are the three indian teas which  the indian tea board promotes as "self-drinkers," i.e. teas worth  drinking unblended.
loose tea is generally whole leaves.
tea blended with herbs many cultures blend tea with various herbs.
baozhong (china) also called bao jong or pouchong,  it is allowed to wither before firing; hence it is just shy of being oolong.
as mentioned earlier, this is usually mostly assam--and very strong.
some asian grocery stores do carry it,  though.
green: gyokuro (japan) spider leg (japan) mattcha (japan, used in the tea ceremony) sencha (japan) hojicha (japan) genmaicha (japan) (blended with toasted rice)
breaking a caffeine addiction is,  mercifully, relatively easy to do.
there are, of course, many different varieties within these three main categories.
they adopted this name, and handed it on to most other european  countries.
some growers have had success using a machine that acts much like a vacuum cleaner, sucking the leaves off the branch.
less fancy varieties are called baimudan (or pai mu tan) and show mee (or shoumei).
during the infusion, give the teapot a good shake or stir to let the leaves circulate.
coffee is better known as a dietary source of caffeine (and  the source of the name 'caffeine'), but tea contains a significant amount of  the drug.
the better the quality of the tea, the better the iced tea will taste.
there is probably a little margin for error, but if you put the tea on to infuse and forget about it for half an hour, start over again.
the chinese do, however, have a special method for brewing tea, which can produce remarkable results.
lapsang souchong see above, section  4.1.5.
oil of bergamot has two  unusual properties that deserve brief mention.
brassy: unpleasant tang caused by under-withering bright: sparkling liquor  characteristic of all fine teas; also describes taste opposite of  "dull" brisk: lively, not flat complex: the harmonious melange of  various flavors characteristic of the very finest teas dull: muddy looking  liquor, the opposite of "bright"; "flat" tasting flat:  soft, rather flabby-bodied tea lacking "bite" and  "briskness" fruity: piquant quality characteristic of good oolongs,  some keemuns, etc.
the two exceptions are russia and portugal, which had independent trade links to china.
put the water in a kettle to boil.
baozhong (china) 4.6.
my name is christopher roberson.
mattcha (japan, used in the tea ceremony) sencha (japan) hojicha (japan)  genmaicha (japan) (blended with toasted rice)
good iced tea uses a decent brand of black tea which is then cooled (either in a refrigerator or by being poured over ice).
english  tea time 3.2.3.
after two  small cups, my hands were trembling and i could barely sit still.
to prepare tea, one filled the container with  water, then put charcoal in the pipe and lighted it.
lapsang souchong (china)
the highest quality white tea is  called baihao yinzhen, which means "white down silver needles."
disadvantages:  you have to figure out some way to get the tea off the leaves once it has  infused.
if you have never used a cozy,  be careful!
the powdered tea is placed in a bowl and whisked to a thick consistency.
(there is also an herb called 'bergamot' which smells like oil of bergamot.
really tough stains can be softened by putting  two teaspoons of baking soda into the pot and filling it with hot water.
lapsang souchong (china and taiwan; black, scented with smoke)
for unknown reasons, at some time in the early eighteenth century the english changed their pronunciation to 'tee'.
oxidation, which starts during rolling, is allowed to proceed for an amount of time that depends on the variety of leaf.
if you reuse containers, avoid using materials that retain odors, as the tea will pick them up.
this is rarely  done by hand any more; it is more often done by machine.
many also contain oolong.
it  is the root of the term often used for chinese black teas, "congou."
drinking the tea through a piece of rock sugar held between the  teeth is also common.
the word for tea in most  of mainland china (and also in japan) is 'cha'.
but impressions differ.
baking soda (sodium bicarbonate) works surprisingly well as a cleaning agent.
this is a "basket-fired" variety of gyokuro, meaning that it is fired  in bamboo baskets.
of course, as with most things, you can spend a lot for tea if you try.
one way to avoid the issue is to eschew milk  completely.
the term 'flowery' apparently refers to the leaf bud, since  actual tea flowers are not used in the preparation of the drink.
but everything else in the preceding  paragraph is absolutely true.]
baozhong (china) also called bao jong or pouchong, it is allowed to wither before firing; hence it is just shy of being oolong.
(since it  tends toward astringency, the short steeping time helps keep the balance of  flavors right.
one r.f.d.t reader was under the impression that these abbreviations stood for "too good for ordinary people" and "far too good for ordinary people."
pu-erh is renowned for its alleged medicinal effects on the digestive tract.
since its effects are subtle and socially accepted, caffeine addiction can be an unnoticed and difficult to diagnose source of health problems.
the process differs for black, green, and  oolong teas.
like cream, whole homogenized milk  is too heavy and strong tasting for most people.
at least one author also claims that most current students of the tea ceremony  are more interested in matrimony than enlightenment.
large  nurseries, particularly those that specialize in camellias, may be able to  provide interested gardeners with tea plants ready for home growing.
since caffeine is a mild  diuretic, the benefit is not quite as great as drinking plain water; but it is  real nonetheless.
'fancy' is a term also used in the  grading of oolongs.
autumnal flush: harvest  after the rainy season.
this is not a criticism, but novices should taste the tea before buying it.
should the milk go in the cups before or after the tea?
oxidation of tea leaves  is a purely chemical process and has nothing to do with the yeast-based  fermentation that produces bread or beer.
japan also produces a considerable amount of green tea, most of which is consumed domestically.
actually, the names derive from the height of the tables on which the meals are served.
a cozy is primarily useful if you make several cups at a time and want the extra tea to remain hot in the pot until you're ready to drink it.
longjing (china) 4.5.7.
professional tasters' lexicon 5.1.
it is also called tencha (before it is powdered).
the porous interior of an unglazed pot is seasoned by repeated infusions of tea leaves, and does not need to be cleaned.
bancha refers to late-harvested teas.
version: 1.7b1 url: http://pages.ripco.net/~c4ha2na9/tea/faq.html rec.food.drink.tea faq version 1.7
it may retain odors  from previous batches.
the tea ceremony can last as long as four hours.
milk  and honey don't seem to go very well together.
this tea is named after a famous well which is said to be the  home of a dragon.
its use in india and sri lanka broadened to mean whole leaves of a uniform size, and this is what it generally means now.
bold: large leaf or sometimes pieces  of leaf too big for a grade, outsized chesty: resinous odor/taste imparted by  uncured wood in tea chest common: poor quality dull: leaf without sheen, i.e.,  "bloom" flaky: poorly made leaf that's flat and easily broken;  nonpejoratively, small grades shotty: well-made gunpowder; sometimes also  applied to souchong tippy: generous amounts of white or golden tip, i.e.,  budding leaf
remove the bag when it has  steeped long enough.
ceramic pots are traditional  throughout most of asia; most retain heat well (depending on the thickness of  the ceramic) and many are attractively decorated.
pu-erh is renowned for its alleged medicinal effects on the digestive  tract.
the biggest worry most tea drinkers have about these methods is that they heat the water somewhat short of the boiling point.
other ways to prepare and serve tea 3.1.
other  areas (such as turkey, south asia and the arab countries) have some version of  'chai' or 'shai'.
if you  prefer to drink tea without additional flavorings, a two-to-four minute  infusion time will probably give you the best results.
can  i grow tea plants myself?
the tea was served by pouring some of the concentrate into a serving glass,  then diluting it with hot water from the main container.
archive-name: drink/tea/faq posting-frequency: quarterly last-modified: 2001/06/11
where does tea come from?
english breakfast some english breakfasts are blends of india and ceylon teas; others, mostly or entirely keemun.
the  simplest way to rid yourself of stains without using soap is to brush the  stains off with a soft kitchen brush or toothbrush.
the three  main categories are green, black, and oolong.
the amount of caffeine in a cup of tea varies tremendously, depending on the variety of tea and the brewing time.
household water heaters heat water for washing, not for drinking.
incidentally, if you live in the united states in a house whose plumbing system was constructed between the 1930s and the late 1970s, it's a good idea to let the cold tap run at full for about a minute before using it.
traditionally, the upper classes serve a "low" or "afternoon" tea around 4:00 pm, at which one might find crustless sandwiches, biscuits, and cake.
there is nothing quite comparable in modern china (though, as noted above, the japanese ceremony originated in ancient china).
other side effects of withdrawal, usually found in frequent and heavy users of caffeine, are lethargy, irritability, and constipation.
incidentally, if you live in the united states in a house whose plumbing system  was constructed between the 1930s and the late 1970s, it's a good idea to let  the cold tap run at full for about a minute before using it.
most tea balls are made of aluminum with small holes for water circulation.
most harvesting is still done by hand, which (as you can imagine) is very labor-intensive.
the samovar is a middle  eastern invention now most often associated with the culture of russia and its  geographic and cultural neighbors.
but ctc has an  important and legitimate role in the tea industry: since it is a mechanized  process, it allows for the rapid processing of a high volume of leaves which  otherwise would go to waste.
most of the tea that goes into bags is not very high quality.
caffeine is also an addictive drug if taken regularly.
mattcha, tencha (japan) mattcha is the powdered  tea used in the famed tea ceremony.
in any case, it is an  acquired taste.
low-fat or skim milk seems to  work best.
the term 'earthy' applies almost literally, as some pu-erh tastes remarkably like dirt.
i am informed that modern russians now use electric  samovars which are available in the west via mail order.
first, the leaves are spread out in the open  (preferably in the shade) until they wither and become limp.
green teas, however, are generally better suited to water that has cooled off  slightly from the boiling point.
if you intend to buy real darjeeling, make sure you are buying 100% darjeeling, preferably first or second flush (see 1.5.1).
less  fancy varieties are called baimudan (or pai mu tan) and show mee (or shoumei).
the  best tea, with few exceptions, is produced in cool, mountainous regions.
the harvested leaves can be  processed in two ways: ctc or orthodox.
tea is a drink made by infusing leaves of the tea plant (_camellia sinensis_, or _thea sinensis_) in hot water.
some truly fine teas retail in the united states for less than us$20 per pound, which means less than 10 cents per cup.
the features common to most  versions are the following: a) the ceremony always involves a host and several  guests (but only a few).
indonesia produces a considerable harvest each  year, primarily in java and sumatra.
formosa oolong (taiwan, many varieties)
oxidation of tea leaves is a purely chemical process and has nothing to do with the yeast-based fermentation that produces bread or beer.
i encourage readers interested in further information to consult the many sources available on the web and in journals on health and life extension.
the orthodox method is a bit more complex,  and is usually done mostly by hand.
it often  contains a bit of smoky lapsang souchong, though its base is typically keemun  or yunnan.
how can i get rid of a  caffeine habit?
gyokuro (japan) 4.5.2.
longer oxidation usually produces a less flavorful but more pungent tea.
most tea that is labeled "orange  pekoe" is blended black tea, typically from india and/or sri lanka.
as with any stimulant, the period of enhanced alertness and heightened mood is generally followed by a period of depressed mood and ability.
you may want to put the  leaves loose in the pot, or use a strainer, sock, or tea ball.
the most reliable sign that you are  addicted to tea is a recurring headache that seems to have no obvious cause and  can be relieved by drinking tea or another caffeinated beverage (or by taking  excedrin, which contains caffeine).
second flush: second-growth  harvest.
to prepare tea, one filled the container with water, then put charcoal in the pipe and lighted it.
before you open a container of frozen tea, let it warm to room temperature in order to avoid contaminating the tea with condensation.
some earl  greys are quite good; others, unfortunately, are saturated with too much of the  aromatic oil, or contain low quality leaves, or both.
russians  traditionally serve their tea in tall, straight-sided glasses, flavored with  lemon or jam.
still, bags can be very convenient, especially if you are preparing  tea away from home.
all three kinds are made from the same plant species.
water out of the hot tap generally has  health-threatening levels of heavy metals (such as lead), as well as an off  taste.
(using the cozy to keep tea warm after it has  finished infusing is fine.)
how can i get rid of a caffeine habit?
another problem with filtered water is that it is usually very "soft" water, lacking the minerals normally found in well and spring water.
gunpowder  is rolled very tightly; the leaves look like small pellets.
lapsang souchong is found in many russian caravan blends.
one then smells the aroma left behind in the first  cup, and drinks from the second cup.
they walk through the garden to the teahouse, which traditionally is elevated and has a three-foot-tall door (so that guests must crawl to enter the building).
clear glass jars are  acceptable only if you can keep them in a closed cupboard away from light.
the best varieties are not overwhelmed by the smoke, but retain subtlety and a mix of other flavors.
i doubt that there is any reliable figure that applies to  all tea drinkers.
prominent among  these effects is the withdrawal headache, caused by dilation of blood vessels  in the head that had been constricted by the consumption of caffeine.
in fact, that same afternoon, i sat down and wrote this entire document in twenty-five minutes.
young hyson (young leaves rolled long and thin) imperial (pellets loosely rolled from older leaves)
this will help  flush out heavy metals that may have collected in the water as it sat in the  plumbing system.
green tea is not oxidized at all; the freshly harvested leaves are rolled and fired immediately.
some people have lingering withdrawal symptoms for  two or more weeks after ceasing intake.
japan may have a standardized grading scheme, but my information is  incomplete on this subject.
tap water is often acceptable; if your tap water has a noticeable taste, you may want to use filtered or bottled water.
protection against dehydration 5.6.
some people have lingering withdrawal symptoms for two or more weeks after ceasing intake.
protection against dehydration a perhaps  unexpected benefit of tea drinking is the resulting increase in water  consumption, which protects against dehydration.
ti kuan yin (or tai guanyin) (mainland china)
occasionally, tea connoisseurs will express contempt for tea bags, for the following reasons: 1.
it can be fun, though, to try a fancy tea now and then.
andrew weil (in _natural health, natural  medicine_) offers the following advice for those who want to try to kick the  habit "cold turkey": "do not attempt it unless you have three  days with no responsibilities and no demands on your time and energy.
herbs can also cause problems.
here's how to do it: boil enough water for twice as many cups as you intend to drink.
why bother pre-heating the teapot?
logically enough, this tea is scented with jasmine flowers.
the process differs for black, green, and oolong teas.
if you like the tea you're  drinking right now, then that is all that you or anyone else needs to know.
there  are many varieties of green tea, most of which are little-known outside asia.
reply-to:  robchr@umich.edu (christopher roberson) summary: this document answers some of  the most frequently asked questions about tea.
the three main categories are green, black, and oolong.
whole-leaf teas come in a larger number of varieties; and the most interesting and enjoyable teas are sometimes not available in bags.
virtually every other european language, however, retains the original pronunciation of 'tay'.
after rolling, the clumped leaves are broken up and set to oxidize.
the composition and proportions of a particular blend vary from dealer to dealer, and are sometimes well-guarded secrets.
in 1995, i ordered a small pot of yin hao jasmine at a local coffeehouse, unaware that this delightful, high-quality delicacy was eye-popping, jaw-clenching rocket fuel.
like many of the ancient japanese arts, it is viewed as a potential  means of enlightenment; in other words, it is a central part of _chado_, or the  way of tea.
disadvantages: the leaves have not actually been removed from the liquor, so they continue to infuse.
this method of preparing tea dates from the time of china's sung dynasty, which lasted from the 900s to the 1200s.
these are  sometimes called herbal teas.
most good tea is not very expensive; and it may be cheaper than you think.
as above, although this may help protect teeth, it is no substitute for brushing, flossing, and regular dental checkups.
as noted above, tea bags usually contain broken grades so that they will infuse quickly.
the  host ceremonially decorates the teahouse with screens and a scroll or flowers.
the guywan the guywan (also spelled gaiwan; also called "chung") is a simple but elegant system used in china to brew green and oolong teas.
when the tea is strong enough, pour over ice and serve.
its color ranges  from pinkish to gold, and its peachy flavor is strong and rich.
tea experts believe that this helps preserve some of the more subtle components of a fine cup of tea.
some common herbs that are used as tisanes are peppermint, chamomile, rose hips, lemon verbena, and fennel.
it originated in china, where its practice eventually died out; but combined with elements of zen, it remains a fascinating part of japanese culture.
really tough stains can be softened by putting two teaspoons of baking soda into the pot and filling it with hot water.
andrew weil (in _natural health, natural medicine_) offers the following advice for those who want to try to kick the habit "cold turkey": "do not attempt it unless you have three days with no responsibilities and no demands on your time and energy.
bring the water to a boil again and pour it over the same leaves, this time infusing for the normal three to five minutes.
does green tea have  caffeine?
the _gongfu_ method 3.1.3.
some recent models have been effusively praised for the sophistication of their brewing procedures and the flavor of the tea they produce.
low-fat or skim milk seems to work best.
most pots are not  dishwasher safe.
whole-leaf teas come in a larger number of varieties;  and the most interesting and enjoyable teas are sometimes not available in  bags.
the typical method uses a very small teapot, preferably a yixing-style teapot, and small thimble-sized cups.
see section 1.5.1 for information on the grading system applied to  darjeelings.
it is in a sense "intermediate" between  green and black, but good oolong should be judged on its own terms, and need  not be compared to other kinds of tea.
this is a strong, earthy green.
using a  teapot 2.2.1.
makes: 2 large  cups 2.5 cups (570 ml) water 6-8 green cardamom pods 5-6 whole black  peppercorns 1-2 slices fresh ginger, peeled and diced 1 stick cinnamon, 1-2  inches long 1-2 cloves 2/3 cup (175 ml) milk 4 tsp sugar 2-3 tsp loose black  tea (preferably india or ceylon) put the water in a saucepan, add the spices,  and bring to a boil.
you may in any case be able to produce something like thai iced tea  simply by brewing your favorite black tea and then adding, to taste, sweetened  condensed milk.
if you are worried about addiction, the best thing to do is to cut down gradually on the amount of caffeine you consume.
the name (also sometimes spelled 'lung ching') means "dragon well."
as many readers of rec.food.drink.tea will testify, asking for tea in a restaurant usually gets one a cup of tepid water with a bargain-basement tea bag floating listlessly in
tea and health the possible beneficial health effects of tea drinking have been widely publicized lately (1998-1999).
*********************
other natural sources of caffeine are chocolate and yerba mate', which is used as an herbal drink in parts of south america.
also known as "pearl  dew," it is a surprisingly rich, herbaceous tea.
good iced tea uses a decent brand of black tea which is  then cooled (either in a refrigerator or by being poured over ice).
seriously, though, most tea drinkers use tea bags some of the time, simply because it may not be convenient to brew loose leaves (at work, for example).
acknowledgements thanks to the following people for help, information, suggestions, and encouragement: rob beauchamp, cathy berry, blaize, andreas bogk, james campbell, noah coccaro, d. dalrymple, stephen darwall, bruce de vries, michelle dick, r. n. dominick, robert dunbar, malcolm dunn, g. s. durocher, jakris euahsunthornwattana, tom frenkel, john l. luigi giasi, nagib z. hakim, matthew e. harbowy, duane healing, kris heidenstrom, jon hodapp, charles hoot, matt hucke, lois-anna kaminski, robert h. klein, steven leung, marciana, rick mendosa, vicki jean merriman, marlene mills, mike newton (fig), jeremy rule, nobuo sakakura, roland saldanha, howard sinberg, slacker, doug smith, mr d.f. steele, stephan schulz, tamale@primenet.com, gene wayne, wembley, laura whaples, stephen ray williams.
what is  rec.food.drink.tea?
there is very little common ground in this debate.
there is no real consensus about this matter.
retail price  ranges from us$20/pound to a jaw-dropping us$200/pound.
this is not a criticism, but novices should taste  the tea before buying it.
i doubt that there is any reliable figure that applies to all tea drinkers.
if you are concerned about overheating these sorts of delicate leaves, do not place a tea cozy on the pot during the infusion, as it keeps too much heat in the pot.
it is grown in zhejiang province, near  shanghai.
chinese greens are graded differently depending on where they came  from.
for instance, rose hips contain vitamin c;  chamomile helps many people relax; and peppermint has a noticeable soothing  effect on the stomach.
ti kuan yin (or tai guan-yin) (mainland china)  4.5.
the faq was first written in 1995 and has gone through several revisions since then.
coffee is better known as a dietary source of caffeine (and the source of the name 'caffeine'), but tea contains a significant amount of the drug.
black teas black tea is produced by allowing harvested leaf to  wither and oxidize for several hours before the process is halted by firing  (i.e. heating and drying out) the leaf.
it  has been widely claimed that green tea has less caffeine than black, but  various sources (including a professional tea chemist) have informed me that  this is not necessarily true.
chamomile, for example,  can cause allergic reactions in people who are allergic to ragweed.
black teas undergo several hours of  oxidation in their preparation for market; oolongs receive less oxidation, and  green teas are not oxidized at all.
it consists of a straight-sided porcelain cup (without a handle), a lid, and a saucer.
they are called the "champagne of teas," and rightly so in  most cases.
the basic steps in the production of black tea are withering, rolling, oxidation, and firing.
worse, most of the darjeeling contained in these blends is harvested during the rainy season and so is less flavorful.
it has been widely claimed that green tea has less caffeine than black, but various sources (including a professional tea chemist) have informed me that this is not necessarily true.
if you've ever tasted oversteeped tea, you know that it is bitter and astringent--an all-around nasty experience.
the _gongfu_ method is typically used for oolong and green teas.
since this method requires  a large amount of tea and several small cups (typically four), it is best done  for a group of oolong lovers.
popular blends there are more different blends of tea than can reasonably be mentioned in the space available, so i will restrict myself to listing the most well-known categories.
first flush: the leaves were plucked in the first growth of the season.
there are many varieties.
there are many different options for dealing with loose leaves.
black teas undergo several hours of oxidation in their preparation for market; oolongs receive less oxidation, and green teas are not oxidized at all.
high tea is served on the dinner table.
other natural sources of caffeine are chocolate and yerba mate',  which is used as an herbal drink in parts of south america.
japan also produces a considerable amount of green  tea, most of which is consumed domestically.
the use of whisked  powdered tea indicates the antiquity of the ritual.
a tea cozy is a fabric cover, much like an oven mitt, which  is placed over a teapot in order to prevent heat loss.
can i grow tea plants myself?
ceylon (sri lanka)  4.1.3.
(the most important factor in caffeine content of leaves appears to be the climate in which the plant is grown.)
blends may be restricted to teas from a particular growing area, but  in most cases are not.
oil of bergamot has two unusual properties that deserve brief mention.
it bears many  similarities to the chinese _gongfu_ method, differing primarily in a higher  level of formality and a few additional implements (notably a lipped cup used  to cool the water before it is poured over the leaves).
low tea is served on tables which in the united states would be called  "coffee tables."
processed tea is sieved to insure that leaves of uniform size are packaged together.
when you buy  tea in bags, most of what you pay for is the process of putting the teas in the  bags, and the brand name advertising.
the following recipe is not claimed to be definitive; it just  happens to be my favorite.
super-fine [fancy] tippy golden flowery orange pekoe.
as noted above, tea bags usually contain broken grades so that they  will infuse quickly.
some people also like to add lemon.
a machine expressly designed to brew tea automatically has also recently been introduced to the marketplace.
i am sure that i have left out your favorite tea, and i apologize in advance.
experiment and see  how you prefer it.
in the united  states, the best climate is probably like that found in the carolinas.
here are the basic grades of black tea: flowery orange pekoe (peck-oh), orange pekoe pekoe souchong broken orange pekoe broken orange pekoe fannings broken pekoe fannings
according to one's teacher and his or her training.
one then smells the aroma left behind in the first cup, and drinks from the second cup.
keemuns come in a remarkably large number of varieties.
still, caffeine addiction can be serious for some people.
tap water is often acceptable; if your tap  water has a noticeable taste, you may want to use filtered or bottled water.
strain into two cups and serve  hot. 3.2.
supposedly, one should brew this tea with water from that well.
milk and honey don't seem to go very well together.
it combines darjeeling's delicate  flavor and light body with assam's maltiness.
most that are commercially available in  the west are not labeled with varietal or place names; the label usually just  informs you that it is formosa oolong and gives its grade.
the samovar was traditionally a large metal container with a metal pipe running vertically through its center.
this text is not in the public domain.
cozies come in a variety of shapes and sizes.
the basic steps in the production of black tea are withering,  rolling, oxidation, and firing.
like many of the ancient japanese arts, it is viewed as a potential means of enlightenment; in other words, it is a central part of _chado_, or the way of tea.
you may want to place a tea cozy over the pot to keep the  remaining tea hot.
infuse a strong concentrate of tea (i.e. much less water than one would use for that amount of leaves) and add it to cold water to the right proportions.
the _gongfu_ method the japanese tea ceremony is a metaphysical/religious ritual centered around tea.
one very popular combination, originating in morocco, is a blend of green tea and spearmint.
professional tasters' lexicon this is from james norwood pratt, _tea lover's treasury_.
other areas (such as turkey, south asia and the arab countries) have some version of 'chai' or 'shai'.
the better the quality of the tea, the  better the iced tea will taste.
(as with most things about tea, opinions differ on this subject.)
caffeine addiction is probably the most common drug addiction in the world, with nicotine addiction a close second.
most of the teapots sold in the west with the label "yixing" are not actually made from yixing clay; still, they seem to serve their purpose well enough.
the cold encourages water condensation, which can ruin the tea.
it should be understood that tea drinking is  not a "magic bullet" for the prevention of cancer.
rec.food.drink.tea is a usenet newsgroup devoted to the discussion of tea and related beverages.
the cold encourages water  condensation, which can ruin the tea.
changes since version  1.6: ongoing 1.
some tea drinkers weigh their tea on a kitchen scale.
let sit for an hour, empty, brush, and rinse.
the first thing to  keep in mind is that these are descriptions of the dry, cured leaf _only_.
the teapot and cups are  slightly larger than the small chinese implements.
others have a vegetative quality like  that of green tea.
a fabric enclosure for the leaves.
the  sweetened vs. non-sweetened divide is probably the american south's version of  the milk-first vs. tea-first rift among brits.
the brewing method is more or less the same as with the charcoal samovar.
cozies come in a variety  of shapes and sizes.
the use of whisked powdered tea indicates the antiquity of the ritual.
this may entail using a teapot and/or strainer (see below, section 2.2.), since bagged tea does not come in as many varieties as loose.
this document, with many others about tea, is accessible on the world wide web at my website, http://www.enteract.com/~robchr/tea/faq.html and at kai birger nielsen's website, http://hjem.get2net.dk/bnielsen changes since version 1.6: ongoing 1.
this may include leaves picked from lower on the branch. '
the water is boiled and the tea bowl  and whisk are heated.
(some teapots are specially constructed to hold a filter.)
the simplest way to rid yourself of stains without using soap is to brush the stains off with a soft kitchen brush or toothbrush.
spider leg (japan) 4.5.3.
it's not  absolutely necessary, but it does keep the infusion from cooling off too  quickly.
in large doses, it can produce jitters, anxiety, and  insomnia.
it is possible to get a delicious cup from ugly, broken leaves; it is possible to get an awful cup from well-handled, beautiful whole leaves.
most tea that is labeled "orange pekoe" is blended black tea, typically from india and/or sri lanka.
it is marketed in bulk as pu-erh, shaped into cakes as pu'er cake tea, or pressed into hemispherical pieces called "tuo cha," or "bird's nest tea."
disadvantages: annoying to clean.
one way to avoid the issue is to eschew milk completely.
(the only  exception to this rule is japanese kokicha, made from stems of the tea plant.
scented/flavored tea (includes both  green and black teas) 4.3.1.
they adopted this name, and handed it on to most other european countries.
thai  restaurants often serve an orange drink called thai tea, usually iced.
(you may also want to do this on a dry day.)
still, bags can be very convenient, especially if you are preparing tea away from home.
super-fine [fancy] tippy golden flowery orange  pekoe.
most greens produce a greenish-gold liquor.
so the following is no more than a brief, non-technical summary of some of the effects on health that have been tentatively identified.
fancy tea is generally sold loose, and the price per cup is often lower than for commercial tea.
there is no standard base for earl grey; its distinctiveness derives from the oil of bergamot.
some authorities even suggest leaving the lid off  the teapot when infusing green tea, to let some heat escape.
dry  leaf: bloom: sheen or luster on black leaf
(some english breakfasts are all keemun.)
it may be a good idea to store bagged tea in a tightly closed metal or opaque glass container to help keep it fresh longer.
after the guests drink the bitter tea, the host cleans the utensils and the guests (more or less ritually) examine and discuss the utensils.
although green tea often contains less caffeine than black, in some cases it may have just as much or more.
what is a  tea cozy, anyway?
(although this  is unusual for most tea, skittish western tea drinkers ought to keep in mind  that mold is also a key ingredient in widely consumed western products such as  cheese.)
it's not absolutely necessary, but it does keep the infusion from cooling off too quickly.
the highest quality is called yin hao. jasmine tea ranges from abysmal stuff, where the flowers are used to mask the poor quality of the tea, to truly remarkable (and remarkably costly) delicacies.
(hence its frequency in names of japanese teas: sencha, hojicha, etc.)
ctc processing is  done by machine; its name is actually fairly descriptive.
some commentators complain that the contemporary emphasis is often  on ritual rather than on aesthetic or spiritual experience.
the ultimate guide is personal taste: it is advisable to experiment and decide on the amount that suits you best.
my knowledge of tea comes from reading about it  and, of course, drinking it.
some tea drinkers weigh their  tea on a kitchen scale.
but ctc has an important and legitimate role in the tea industry: since it is a mechanized process, it allows for the rapid processing of a high volume of leaves which otherwise would go to waste.
some terms that you may find with regard to chinese  green teas are: gunpowder (pellets, tightly rolled from young leaves and buds)
the most reliable sign that you are addicted to tea is a recurring headache that seems to have no obvious cause and can be relieved by drinking tea or another caffeinated beverage (or by taking excedrin, which contains caffeine).
it is well suited to the needs of a large  community of voracious tea drinkers, but unfortunately is not really practical  as a means of producing an afternoon cup for the solitary enthusiast.
this goes for all tap water consumption, of course, not just for tea.
systems that filter the water and then store it in a reservoir (such as the popular brita system) often yield flat, odd-tasting tea.
thanks in particular to kai  birger nielsen, the first person to put the faq in html; and to gabriel shahar,  who provided many helpful comments.
its caffeine content is negligible.)
opinions differ on whether it  is desirable on china, porcelain, or glazed earthenware pots.
(one source says "four to five slow  breaths.")
detailed  descriptions of most of these teas follow in section 3.
other ways to prepare and serve tea 4.
it was first cultivated and brewed in china, and many of  the best varieties still come from china.
the following is presented for its informational  value only, and is not to be regarded as medical advice.
in fact, that  same afternoon, i sat down and wrote this entire document in twenty-five  minutes.
the method is essentially a series of brief infusions.
research in this area is still  progressing, and i am not really qualified to explain the complex biochemical  factors that appear to underlie tea's effects on health.
wouldn't hot tap water boil faster?
if there's a good coffeehouse or specialty  tea shop in your area, you may be able to try a cup of an expensive tea without  making a big investment.
finally, the leaves are heated, or "fired," to end the oxidation process and dehydrate them so that they can be stored.
in any case, you should not add anything to green or oolong tea; they are meant to be drunk straight.
caffeine  addiction is probably the most common drug addiction in the world, with  nicotine addiction a close second.
fluoride content tea is well known as a good source of fluoride,  which helps strengthen teeth.
some of the finest oolongs in the  world are grown in taiwan.
some earl greys are quite good; others, unfortunately, are saturated with too much of the aromatic oil, or contain low quality leaves, or both.
disadvantages:  the leaves have not actually been removed from the liquor, so they continue to  infuse.
it is a more substantial meal -- essentially, it's dinner -- which includes bread, meats, scones, and cake.
while this is a good way to brew coffee, it is less than ideal for most kinds of tea.