there’s an insidious tendency  on the part of the industry to intrude with novelties, gadgets, and the sort of  hack advertising that makes people think they can’t live without them.
the main selling point remains that it’s new, not that it’s any sort of actual improvement.
name: comment: read more hubs by paul wallis contact paul wallis copyright © 2012 hubpages inc. and respective owners.
the pot garden can be a lot of fun, and can be done truly brilliantly.
they were designed to cater for large areas, like the palace of versailles,  and the smaller chic versions tend to look window-box-like.
in terms of the garden, it’s also usually chic lacking anything useful or tolerable.
a life sentence, or a death  sentence, in fact, if the gardener isn’t careful.
that they lack substance is obvious, but look at what’s  happened.
that they lack substance is obvious, but look at what’s happened.
as land sizes relative to buildings shrink, and the laughable mentalities of those who design living space becomes more infected with the belief that everyone lives in a sitcom with compulsory squalor, the garden has become something which is seen more as art deco than a design feature.
entertaining as the sight of a tree devouring a suburb is, surely we could do more to enhance the life of the tree than just allowing it to play with any old rubbish.
given the vast advances in biological science, the  desire to play god can’t be far away.
it will be  made by some hitherto unknown genius called gushette maximus, and be duly  revered as a breakthrough in domestic life, the entrance of culture onto the  previously barren stage of human existence.
it will be written up for centuries afterward as a symbol of the great artistic masters of the day.
he wondered if the commonplaces of his day would become hallowed a hundred years from then.
the sedge could become a sort of clumpy robin hood, and the agapanthus could make the most wanted list look a bit nicer, but is that all we expect from designer plants, to merely make do with suburbia as a venue?
people have every right to their own aesthetic values, and i’ll never say otherwise.
indoor chic size does matter.
you wear by now only what’s comfortable.
between modern sculptures, charming bric-a-brac and entirely forgettable odds and sods, the only thing that can be safely said is that it prevents cluttering up the garden with plants.
if you live in a place where you have scope to design, remember that you might want to design something else sometime, too.
hence  the remains of some gruesome excess will sit in the garden for centuries, in  some cases, protected by archaeologists and other masochists.
small pots are for small plants.
even the fertilizer trade has its uncharacteristic chic moments, particularly with indoor pot plants.
the mental restrictions are arguably much worse, and they're the basis of garden art as it is now called, blending with an unspeakable environment.
it has been praised more than the latest hit movie, and credited with saving lives and starting a few cults, and it’s still rubbish.
but… does one want to live among the idiocies of consumerism?
(metal planters are equally deadly, and dangerous to you, too, if heated up enough.)
while forgivable in anyone with any talent under about 25, the conceit is a bit much for the art lover.
whole generations are  raised in the squalid piles of concrete we are told are normal human  habitations called cities.
the idea of garden décor has been a great boon to those that sell  garden décor, and almost nobody else.
like pop art, it has no depth and no basis.
a “piece” will appear, a “feature” like  a table setting, will slither into the postage stamp sized garden area.
chic gardening tends to reflect this inferior thinking.
virtually everything in a normal household can be lethal with a little effort.
venus rising from the styrofoam doesn’t strike me as particularly inspiring, or inspired.
virtually everything in a normal household can be lethal with a little  effort.
some pots are truly useless; the cheapo variety, thin black plastic, are  genuinely dangerous for the plant.
primulas able to singthe hallelujah chorus are only a punnet away.
this wonderful product is inevitably the latest thing in rose design.
art is often misrepresented as something it simply isn’t.
if nothing makes you happier than to have a plaster something-or-other sitting in the ivy, please have one.
as mentioned above, there are plenty of  arguments in favor of at least looking at design ideas through a computer.
whole generations are raised in the squalid piles of concrete we are told are normal human habitations called cities.
uniformity is a rarity in gardens these days, and with good reason.
anyone can be persuaded they know what they're doing if it's banal enough.
the sedge could become a sort of clumpy robin hood, and the agapanthus  could make the most wanted list look a bit nicer, but is that all we expect  from designer plants, to merely make do with suburbia as a venue?
there is a theory which i’ve been spreading that formal gardens are a  sort of efficient masochism.
thin plastic anything is well worth avoiding in pots, however chic.
you eat a  balanced diet of medications and occasionally something which might  theoretically be digestible.
you eat a balanced diet of medications and occasionally something which might theoretically be digestible.
anything not covered by case law or statutes can drag on for years.
it  is also unique for its ability to completely defeat its own purpose.
people don’t have the space to play with, and they want to look at more than one plant.
the garden palette is made not  only formal but symmetrical, and the mind is as likely to just see the symmetry  and ignore it,because it’s too deliberately symmetrical, as it  is to look further.
there is a theory which i’ve been spreading that formal gardens are a sort of efficient masochism.
in the arts, chic is normally a synonym for insufferable.
if you don't happen to have a palace of versailles, consider other options.
the “new” rose is a transparent mix of older cultivars, and the name, “smarmy goo goo” lacks a certain poise.
if nothing else it will explain england to you.
the slightly prudish garden statuary has been supplanted byobjé ts de anonymous, personality-less things with no known purpose or aesthetic
people  don’t have the space to play with, and they want to look at more than one  plant.
if that isn’t warning enough, consider: 1.
they arethe incarnate form of garden perfectionism.
chic gardening, like commercials, works on the predictability as the garden's raison d'etre, believe it or not.
there will be an architectural renaissance, followed by a décor revolution, followed by cheesy packaging innovations.
cultural events, art exhibits or gardens, are occasionally touted as tours de force when they’re really tours de farce.
using a lot of whizzbang nutrients is a great way of growing molds and fungi, and with a little effort a healthy crop of mysterious afflictions will keep you very busy and help keep your asthma and hay fever feeling appreciated.
actually putting a bit more absurdity into modern life does have a few  things to recommend it.
submit a comment members and guests sign in or sign up and post using a hubpages account.
you can  slaughter all your plants by weakening a pot plant to the extent it gets a  disease and passes it on to the others.
your sedge getting arrested for shoplifting.
you then progress to living in something very like a necro diner eating slop amid that original lifeless modern supermarket look most of the baby boom generation grew up in, and wearing the results of advanced alcoholism.
nevertheless, even a professional cynic who practices regularly will look at  something “new” because it is “new”, at least in theory.
the idea of garden décor has been a great boon to those that sell garden décor, and almost nobody else.
the pitiful spectacle of a pot  bound plant is so familiar and so obvious that i’m wary of mentioning it,  but pots will kill plants as efficiently as neglect.
on of the big selling points of anything is that it’s “new”.
it’s interesting that modern design tends to come in outcrops.
even the fertilizer trade has its uncharacteristic chic moments,  particularly with indoor pot plants.
have what youlike, not what is thrust upon you.
ideas have to grow, too.
in old age you  progress still further into the depths of lifestyle among the restful shades of  places designed specifically for those who need to be containerized.
the willow pattern has since degenerated into a  rather tacky imitation of its original self, a mere series of smears under the  glaze, no life or personality in them.
art suffers from the  artist, as well as the aficionado.
big pots should be handled by those who are insured.
where the wallet goes, the mind will follow……eventually.
seems to me that you might as well start by making yourself comfortable, and simply ignore the rest of the process.
if this unavoidable eyesore is a  plant, it will inevitably be the most daring thing in gardening since plastic  daisies.
however, there are some chic gardening motifs that deserve to be  questioned: the modern desert with flowerpots.
chic gardening invariably includes a range of pots which are probably better for attracting fungi and diseases than growing anything but excuses.
if you want to be an chic gardener, make sure it’s your idea of chic, not the marketing industry’s latest attempt to prove it’s ever seen a plastic daisy.
care to guess what 90% of chic is, at any given moment in history?
i know they’re not new.
therein the essence of motifs.
if you live in a  place where you have scope to design, remember that you might want to design  something else sometime, too.
so you see the beginnings of neo garden art.
the  slightly prudish garden statuary has been supplanted byobjé ts de anonymous, personality-less things with no known purpose or aesthetic
i got lucky and found an old piece that actually looks like real willow pattern.)
some pots are truly useless; the cheapo variety, thin black plastic, are genuinely dangerous for the plant.
chic  gardening invariably includes a range of pots which are probably better for  attracting fungi and diseases than growing anything but excuses.
terms of use privacy policy (0.89 sec) hubpages livingworking
seems to me that you might as well start by making yourself comfortable,  and simply ignore the rest of the process.
they can also make small plants out of big plants, and do enough damage to make repotting a real problem.
in middle age you advance to the wholesome cheapness that only real architectural mediocrity can hope to achieve, eating something requiring a degree in food technology to understand and wearing the aberrations of fashion designers whose shoes are smarter than they are.
the formal styles are out of fashion these days, and one of the reasons for that is that they are unbelievably expensive, and require a technical expertise that few people either have or can afford.
centuries’ worth of perfectly good, reliable ceramic pots have  been replaced by seconds’ worth of bland little plastic things.
thin plastic anything is well worth avoiding in pots, however  chic.
as discussed above, the normal version of this is tiresome décor, soggy management-seminar level orientation to design concepts, and a supply of third rate materials.
the willow pattern has since degenerated into a rather tacky imitation of its original self, a mere series of smears under the glaze, no life or personality in them.
a  plant that looks like a hamburger or a can of soup isn’t impossible,  it’s just that nobody with sufficient lack of taste and class has yet  evolved to produce them.
the fun is programmed, the plants are usually neurotic things that believe their own publicity, even if nobody else does, and the result is chic atrocity.
some plants must have large pots, and you'll be astonished to hear that most of the more fashionable big pots are useless as anything but shop displays.
repetition makes the mind less interested.
as land sizes relative to buildings  shrink, and the laughable mentalities of those who design living space becomes  more infected with the belief that everyone lives in a sitcom with compulsory  squalor, the garden has become something which is seen more as art deco than a  design feature.
cultural events, art exhibits or gardens, are occasionally  touted as tours de force when they’re really tours de farce.
privet hedges able to park the car and lawns able to mow themselves while conducting ballet classes may be safely assumed to be on their way.
a few plants missing is a conceptual disaster.
if  you don't happen to have a palace of versailles, consider other options.
chic gardening  takes advantage of both the marketing and the fact that anything old enough is  usually considered “art”, however bloody awful it is.
by paul wallis starting with the basic premise that what people grow in their own gardens is their own business, it has to be said that both style and technology intrude if they get the chance.
primulas  able to singthe hallelujah chorus are only a punnet away.
nor does a garden shed looking like the sistine chapel and costing as much necessarily transport me to valhalla.
consider the possibilities of one of your more bovine acquaintances trying  to tame a jazz-playing lavender.
i got lucky and found an old piece that  actually looks like real willow pattern.)
but- there’s something irritating about the predictable.
the black spot factory seems to be much the  same, and the thing may or may not flower properly.
the culture creates the art, which is rather a pity.
unless a major breakthrough in the construction of really intelligent flowerpots happens soon, pots have their limits.
the black spot factory seems to be much the same, and the thing may or may not flower properly.
jerome k jerome, author of three men in a boat, (if you haven’t read it, rush out immediately and get a copy.
your sedge getting arrested for  shoplifting.
in middle age you advance to the wholesome cheapness that  only real architectural mediocrity can hope to achieve, eating something  requiring a degree in food technology to understand and wearing the aberrations  of fashion designers whose shoes are smarter than they are.
even the shapes are arcane.
on of the big selling points of  anything is that it’s “new”.
it’s just that the  human race brings this unspeakable irritant with itself wherever it goes.
nor is it impossible that something with leaves like van gogh’swheatfield with crows will be grown for its rustic charm, and dear tiny little flowers that look like price tags.
none of which has prevented the daily flood of consumer goods being rammed delicately into everyone’s lives.
where the wallet goes, the mind will  follow……eventually.
chic gardening,  like commercials, works on the predictability as the garden's raison d'etre,  believe it or not.
everything ever designed as a consumer item usually turns out to be  substandard.
it also achieves  the straitjacket effect of preventing much else being done.
plants naturally don’t grow in pots.
we appreciate….sometimes, if we can.
you could make a fortune in chat show appearances discussing what’s likely to happen to the plumber when the agapanthus realized he was disconnecting the outlet from the bathroom.
vote upvote downshareprintflagwas this hub ...?
chic gardening generally dumps large amounts of new looks, new shapes, new products, and new books about itself onto the gardener.
in all honesty, anything really chic usually starts as a sort of accident.
it's just that i'm pretty sure the basic idea of gardening isn't to provide a wreath for the funeral of human aesthetics.
a car salesman earnestly explaining the  benefits of all wheel drive to a petunia.
art is often misrepresented as something it  simply isn’t.
formal gardens emphasize their own failures, too.
add to this the invention of increasingly garish and unnatural garden features, and you can assume that senility of the species is well advanced.
no, not a supply of cars being fixed in the back yard, but a programmed  garden, growing according to a plan.
care to guess what  90% of chic is, at any given moment in history?
other product and company names shown may be trademarks of their respective owners.
you can start in a life of soap  operatic innocence in your gothic apartment eating gruel and wearing things  that look anonymous in crowds.
consider the possibilities of one of your more bovine acquaintances trying to tame a jazz-playing lavender.
â  the mental restrictions are arguably  much worse, and they're the basis of garden art as it is now called, blending  with an unspeakable environment.
they don’t have credit cards so they can go to the nursery and buy their own, so they’ve learned to make do without.
there  will be an architectural renaissance, followed by a décor revolution,  followed by cheesy packaging innovations.
the roots will cook with a bit of help from the black plastic, if left in the sun.
anyone who’s ever tried to unravel a pot bound plant knows the story.
usually it will be known by some restrained market description like cosmic phallus, or credit card symbiote, and look like the remains of a car accident.
a few plants missing is a  conceptual disaster.
the serried ranks of daffodils were an icon once, but even then they were set amid other features.
they can also make small  plants out of big plants, and do enough damage to make repotting a real  problem.
he wondered if the commonplaces of his day would become hallowed a hundred  years from then.
cookery is a case in point.
one of the problems with chic anything is that it’s usually chic devoid of practicalities.
between modern sculptures,  charming bric-a-brac and entirely forgettable odds and sods, the only thing  that can be safely said is that it prevents cluttering up the garden with  plants.
venus rising from the styrofoam doesn’t strike me as  particularly inspiring, or inspired.
like wearing a tuxedo to breakfast, there is a degree of “demanding self image” placed on the gardener.
the equation is "plant first, decorative values of pot last".
as  discussed above, the normal version of this is tiresome décor, soggy  management-seminar level orientation to design concepts, and a supply of third  rate materials.
add to this the invention of increasingly garish and  unnatural garden features, and you can assume that senility of the species is  well advanced.
terra cotta is generally reliable, and breathes better, allowing some  movement of air and water when the potting mix isn’t impacted, but they  are very heavy and very breakable, and should only be handled by those that  know how.
they were designed to cater for large areas, like the palace of versailles, and the smaller chic versions tend to look window-box-like.
all of the above is expensive to maintain, repair, and operate.
they arethe incarnate form of garden  perfectionism.
my father was an industrial designer, among other things, so i’m not  quite so impressed with this mongrelization of ideas.
in gardening, the equivalent is a sort of grow your own cliche, and that's where chic gardening really hits top gear.
that’s a fairly good analysis of the design process.
nothing else will...) wrote about the domestic horrors of his day, including the revered willow pattern in much the same way.
otherwise most of this stuff is about as useful as a whale in a bathtub, and far less interesting.
sometimes unkindly and  inaccurately referred to as train set planning, the hideous procedure of  neatness settles in.
like wearing a tuxedo to breakfast, there is a  degree of “demanding self image” placed on the gardener.
the main selling point remains that it’s new,  not that it’s any sort of actual improvement.
the art analogy isn’t entirely misplaced.
but it's growing more chiropractors than plants.
the “new” rose  is a transparent mix of older cultivars, and the name, “smarmy goo  goo” lacks a certain poise.
people have every right to their own aesthetic values, and i’ll never
centuries’ worth of perfectly good, reliable ceramic pots have been replaced by seconds’ worth of bland little plastic things.
a “piece” will appear, a “feature” like a table setting, will slither into the postage stamp sized garden area.
ergo the garden lover is usually a bit less than impressed with the normal run of chic everythings, even in the normal forms.
the pot is a potential prison.
the  thunderous rote praise is usually an omen of the mediocrity to come.
it will be written up for centuries afterward as a symbol of the great  artistic masters of the day.
so it follows that chic gardening is going to be a horror of epic vistas.
they don’t have credit  cards so they can go to the nursery and buy their own, so they’ve learned  to make do without.
nor does a garden shed looking like the  sistine chapel and costing as much necessarily transport me to valhalla.
(metal planters are equally deadly, and  dangerous to you, too, if heated up enough.)
an array of plants  in formal rows looks great en masse, in a large setting, but it’s not the  same, jammed against the garage, sandwiched between the car and the hose.
they can also be rather an atavism, something out of its time.
the roots will cook with a bit of help from  the black plastic, if left in the sun.
it is also unique for its ability to completely defeat its own purpose.
i was reading him almost exactly a hundred years later, and i  can see what he meant.
weight is a real  issue, particularly after watering.
one of the problems with chic anything is that it’s usually chic  devoid of practicalities.
none of which has prevented the daily flood of consumer goods being rammed  delicately into everyone’s lives.
there’s an insidious tendency on the part of the industry to intrude with novelties, gadgets, and the sort of hack advertising that makes people think they can’t live without them.
if nothing makes you happier than to have  a plaster something-or-other sitting in the ivy, please have one.
a car salesman earnestly explaining the benefits of all wheel drive to a petunia.
better quality pots are thicker, with a feel of real durability.
chic gardening now produces images which are related to formal gardening, and require an army to grow and maintain.
chic gardening generally dumps large amounts  of new looks, new shapes, new products, and new books about itself onto the  gardener.
by paul wallis how to avoid getting planted by fashionable gardening starting with the basic premise that what people grow in their own gardens  is their own business, it has to be said that both style and technology intrude  if they get the chance.
while forgivable in anyone with any talent under about 25,  the conceit is a bit much for the art lover.
entertaining as  the sight of a tree devouring a suburb is, surely we could do more to enhance  the life of the tree than just allowing it to play with any old rubbish.
anyone can be persuaded they know what they're doing if it's  banal enough.
nor is it impossible that something with leaves like  van gogh’swheatfield with crows will be grown for its rustic  charm, and dear tiny little flowers that look like price tags.
terra cotta is generally reliable, and breathes better, allowing some movement of air and water when the potting mix isn’t impacted, but they are very heavy and very breakable, and should only be handled by those that know how.
there is an interminable supply of little things to hang about the garden,  and designer planters for that primary school look.
actually putting a bit more absurdity into modern life does have a few things to recommend it.
a bit of incinerated mammoth translated into a major industry and the cause of more sincere cursing than any commercial ever run.
if this unavoidable eyesore is a plant, it will inevitably be the most daring thing in gardening since plastic daisies.
pot plants in unsuitable containers can get sick pretty easily.
from predictable to dull as a fence post is a very small step.
as mentioned above, there are plenty of arguments in favor of at least looking at design ideas through a computer.
it is a process of acceptance, the valuing of things as what they represent, not what they actually are.
a life sentence, or a death sentence, in fact, if the gardener isn’t careful.
in gardening, this syndrome has branched out  recklessly into chic gardening, the pursuit of novelty at any price.
the "spanish look" can give you a hernia.
jerome k jerome, author of three men in a boat, (if you  haven’t read it, rush out immediately and get a copy.
it has been praised more than the  latest hit movie, and credited with saving lives and starting a few cults, and  it’s still rubbish.
the serried ranks of daffodils were an icon once, but even then they  were set amid other features.
nevertheless, even a professional cynic who practices regularly will look at something “new” because it is “new”, at least in theory.
ergo the garden lover is usually a bit less than impressed with the normal  run of chic everythings, even in the normal forms.
vote upvote downshareprintflag
the garden palette is made not only formal but symmetrical, and the mind is as likely to just see the symmetry and ignore it,because it’s too deliberately symmetrical, as it is to look further.
unless a major breakthrough in the construction of really intelligent  flowerpots happens soon, pots have their limits.
fake chic is usually the result of some sleazy desire to flog merchandise,  and it shows.
nothing else will...) wrote about the domestic  horrors of his day, including the revered willow pattern in much the same way.
the thunderous rote praise is usually an omen of the mediocrity to come.
my father was an industrial designer, among other things, so i’m not quite so impressed with this mongrelization of ideas.
no, not a supply of cars being fixed in the back yard, but a programmed garden, growing according to a plan.
you then progress to living in something very  like a necro diner eating slop amid that original lifeless modern supermarket  look most of the baby boom generation grew up in, and wearing the results of  advanced alcoholism.
privet  hedges able to park the car and lawns able to mow themselves while conducting  ballet classes may be safely assumed to be on their way.
he wondered if willow pattern would be revered 100 years from 1888.
arguably no  form of artistic pretension could survive without it.
the fun is programmed, the plants  are usually neurotic things that believe their own publicity, even if nobody  else does, and the result is chic atrocity.
the formal  styles are out of fashion these days, and one of the reasons for that is that  they are unbelievably expensive, and require a technical expertise that few  people either have or can afford.
the lavender might well be the next mingus, and the petunia a better motorist than most.
i was reading him almost exactly a hundred years later, and i can see what he meant.
chic gardening now produces images which are  related to formal gardening, and require an army to grow and maintain.
a plant that looks like a hamburger or a can of soup isn’t impossible, it’s just that nobody with sufficient lack of taste and class has yet evolved to produce them.
you can start in a life of soap operatic innocence in your gothic apartment eating gruel and wearing things that look anonymous in crowds.
fake chic is usually the result of some sleazy desire to flog merchandise, and it shows.
in terms of the garden, it’s also usually chic  lacking anything useful or tolerable.
the need to have the latest of everything is probably the best possible example of a social inferiority complex applied in practice.
however, there are some chic gardening motifs that deserve to be questioned: the modern desert with flowerpots.
sometimes unkindly and inaccurately referred to as train set planning, the hideous procedure of neatness settles in.
the pitiful spectacle of a pot bound plant is so familiar and so obvious that i’m wary of mentioning it, but pots will kill plants as efficiently as neglect.
in gardening, this syndrome has branched out recklessly into chic gardening, the pursuit of novelty at any price.
an array of plants in formal rows looks great en masse, in a large setting, but it’s not the same, jammed against the garage, sandwiched between the car and the hose.
if nothing else it  will explain england to you.
otherwise most of this stuff is about as useful as a whale in a bathtub, and  far less interesting.
there is an interminable supply of little things to hang about the garden, and designer planters for that primary school look.
it is a process of acceptance, the valuing of things as  what they represent, not what they actually are.
everything ever designed as a consumer item usually turns out to be substandard.
(i’m actually eating anzac biscuits out of a willow pattern saucer as i write… fate, eh?
it will be made by some hitherto unknown genius called gushette maximus, and be duly revered as a breakthrough in domestic life, the entrance of culture onto the previously barren stage of human existence.
in gardening, the equivalent is a sort of grow your own cliche, and that's  where chic gardening really hits top gear.
this wonderful product is  inevitably the latest thing in rose design.
if you want to be an chic gardener, make sure it’s your idea  of chic, not the marketing industry’s latest attempt to prove it’s  ever seen a plastic daisy.
it’s just that the human race brings this unspeakable irritant with itself wherever it goes.
given the vast advances in biological science, the desire to play god can’t be far away.
(i’m actually eating anzac biscuits out of a willow pattern saucer as  i write… fate, eh?
you can slaughter all your plants by weakening a pot plant to the extent it gets a disease and passes it on to the others.
formality uber alles.
some plants must have large pots, and you'll  be astonished to hear that most of the more fashionable big pots are useless as  anything but shop displays.
it's just that i'm pretty sure  the basic idea of gardening isn't to provide a wreath for the funeral of human  aesthetics.
in the arts, chic is normally a synonym  for insufferable.
he wondered if willow pattern  would be revered 100 years from 1888.
using a lot of whizzbang nutrients is a  great way of growing molds and fungi, and with a little effort a healthy crop  of mysterious afflictions will keep you very busy and help keep your asthma and  hay fever feeling appreciated.
weight is a real issue, particularly after watering.
i know they’re not  new.
you could make a fortune in chat show appearances discussing  what’s likely to happen to the plumber when the agapanthus realized he  was disconnecting the outlet from the bathroom.
it also achieves the straitjacket effect of preventing much else being done.
the need to have the latest of  everything is probably the best possible example of a social inferiority  complex applied in practice.
usually  it will be known by some restrained market description like cosmic phallus, or  credit card symbiote, and look like the remains of a car accident.
in old age you progress still further into the depths of lifestyle among the restful shades of places designed specifically for those who need to be containerized.
chic gardening takes advantage of both the marketing and the fact that anything old enough is usually considered “art”, however bloody awful it is.
a bit of incinerated mammoth translated into a  major industry and the cause of more sincere cursing than any commercial ever  run.
the  lavender might well be the next mingus, and the petunia a better motorist than  most.
hence the remains of some gruesome excess will sit in the garden for centuries, in some cases, protected by archaeologists and other masochists.
art suffers from the artist, as well as the aficionado.
anyone who’s ever tried to unravel a pot bound plant knows the  story.
arguably no form of artistic pretension could survive without it.