a pot needs to have a sufficient number of large drainage holes to allow water to drain quickly away from the bottom of the pot.
trunks  are branched on each tree to form odd numbers (1, 3, 5 etc. trunks) per tree.
counselling - free handbook - discussion forums - frequently asked questions - links - other acs sites - australian site - uk & europe site - acsedu - acs garden - online training system - the careers guide - horticulture website - webphotos - acs ebook store - acs book shop - acs specialist websites - newsletters - recommended links - licensing acs courses - register as a tutor - sell our e books - iarc - job vacancies home > courses > horticulture > plant varieties > bonsai bonsai course code bht320 fee code s2 duration (approx) 100 hours qualification statement of attainment credentials member of the institute of horticulture careers advisory bureau member nursery and garden industry association acs is recognised as an institution by iarc
click here to send them this information.
acs distance education disclaims all and any liability in relation to any act or omission which is done in reliance to the information provided in this web site.
within australia aud $748.00 inc gst outside australia aud $780.00 enable javascript to automatically update prices.
likewise, a bonsai container must enhance the contents within.
all prices in australian dollars.
each lesson culminates in an assignment which is submitted to the school,  marked by the school's tutors and returned to you with any relevant  suggestions, comments, and if necessary, extra reading.
these plants can be unstable, which is a disadvantage when displaying them.
a rectangular or square container would suit a more formal style than a round or oval container.
- repotting and root pruning the bonsai - maintenance pruning for bonsai removing dead/diseased wood, controlling the type of growth, controlling shape and size, rejuvenating, leaf cutting, basic rules of pruning, points to consider when pruning.
acs distance education reserves the right to decline orders arising from such errors.
visit a nursery and observe the nursery stock present to assess  suitability for bonsai production.
most  bonsai specialist retail outlets offer a range of containers originating from  the tokaname area of japan.
soil for potted bonsai principle components particle characteristics particle size, sorting, particle shape, particle  surface texture growing medium mixture functions of a growing medium, properties of a  growing medium, drainage, water retention and colour and appearance.
- select different plants and determine the style of bonsai each plant lends itself to.
common fungal diseases of plants eg.
types of plants suited for use as bonsai sourcing bonsai material some plant choices bonsai styles and techniques classification of styles of bonsai eg.
understand the process of creating bonsai.
select different plants and determine the style of bonsai each plant  lends itself to.
plainer shapes such as these are better than  more elaborate types, regardless of the bonsai style.
drainage holes are of paramount importance to enable sufficient root aeration.
• reputation: well-known and respected in horticulture • industry focus: courses designed to suit industry needs and  expectations • different focus: develop problem solving skills  that make you stand out from others • hands on: develop practical  as well as theoretical skills • lots of help: dedicated and  knowledgeable tutors (faculty of internationally renowned horticulturists) • efficient: prompt responses to your questions • reliable: established in 1979, independent school with a solid  history • up to date: courses under constant review • resources:  huge wealth of constantly developing intellectual  property • value: courses compare very favourably on a cost per  study hour basis • student amenities: online student room,  bookshop, ebooks, acs garden online resources.
visit a bonsai house, bonsai farm, bonsai nursery or other facility where  bonsai are available for viewing and classify the style of different bonsai  plants.
visit a nursery or garden growing bonsai plants to assess the plants for  pests, diseases and environmental anomalies.
shakan (bending trunk) - a single main trunk leaning slightly to the left  or right.
remember that the pot is an integral part of the bonsai.
acs distance education disclaims liability or responsibility for orders or complaints arising from such errors, including (but not limited to): pricing, fees and course requirements.
propagate different species of plant that have the potential to be used  as bonsai.
• root coiling at the bottom of a pot is reduced if  the base is more tapered.
bonsai course -learn about bonsai by distance education this comprehensive course in bonsai covers the many aspect of selecting, growing and maintaining bonsai under a range of conditions.
- learn the species of plants most suited to bonsai.
if you are serious - enrol and learn more
sokan (twin trunked) - a single tree with two separate trunks, one longer  and thinner than the other.
pots are  therefore best stood on top of a dry, paved or flat stone surface.
carry out research into a particular aspect of bonsai of interest to the  student.
- soil for potted bonsai principle components - particle characteristics particle size, sorting, particle shape, particle surface texture - growing medium mixture functions of a growing medium, properties of a growing medium, drainage, water retention and colour and appearance.
- learn about the styles and techniques for pruning and training used to create bonsai plants - learn to identify more plants, and to select specimins suited for creating bonsai - for passionate hobbyists, through to anyone wanting to operate a bonsai nursery - 100 hour, self paced course -tuition by expert horticulturists from both the uk and australia the 20/80 rule - "as with most things in horticulture; growing bonsai requires 20% knowledge that is specific to bonsai (ie. equipment, techniques, using the right plants, understanding the traditional forms); and 80% general horticultural skill (ie.
- common fungal diseases of plants eg.
- shakan (bending trunk) - a single main trunk leaning slightly to the left or right.
• sprinkling a layer of coarse sand over the pot surface will reduce weed problems, and control the growth of moss.
talk to aus: 07 5562 1088 int: +61 7 5562 1088 an expert our tutors are highly qualified, with years of industry experience.
the bonsai may remain in the same pot for several years or, in the case of older tress, for many years.
sprinkling a layer of coarse sand over the pot surface will reduce weed  problems, and control the growth of moss.
for instance, a fruit tree will need a deeper container in  order that there is sufficient water for fruit development.
- sokan (twin trunked) - a single tree with two separate trunks, one longer and thinner than the other.
- yoseue (collective plantings) - several plants in one container to give the appearance of a forest.
- visit a nursery or garden growing bonsai plants to assess the plants for pests, diseases and environmental anomalies.
it is important therefore that thepot suits the tree or composition within.
• root coiling at the bottom of a pot is reduced if the base is more tapered.
obtain (or make up) a potting mix which you consider appropriate for  growing bonsai in.
bonsai pots come in a wide range of sizes from as small as thimble sized mame pots to containers of eighteen inches in depth.
for instance, a fruit tree will need a deeper container in order that there is sufficient water for fruit development.
repotting and root pruning the bonsai maintenance pruning for bonsai removing dead/diseased wood, controlling  the type of growth, controlling shape and size, rejuvenating, leaf cutting,  basic rules of pruning, points to consider when pruning.
enrol in the course click here to enrol online, or call us to enrol over the phone.
understand methods of propagation used in bonsai.
- plants for bonsai - introduction - history of bonsai - types of plants suited for use as bonsai sourcing bonsai material - some plant choices - bonsai styles and techniques - classification of styles of bonsai eg.
if you like the look of a container without drainage holes, then drill some into the base.
- bonsai culture and maintenance - soils soil composition, colloids, structure, texture, chemical properties, improving soils, improving texture, improving structure, improving fertility.
roots tend to coil more in a round pot than a square pot.
the nutrient elements macronutrients and micronutrients common pest problems on bonsai eg. aphids, borers, caterpillars, scale  and thrips.
- info - 21st century education - agriculture - alternative living - business - computers - design your own course - distance and online education - education - environment - fitness news - gardening news - hobby - horticulture - hospitality - natural health - pets - photography - psychology - publishing - recreation and fitness - writing - about us - staff - about the school - affiliates - contact us - history of acs - professional and industry organisations - published articles - recognition - student testimonials - workshops - advice - free business advice - free course
as a very general rule of thumb, the depth of the pot should be approximately the same as the width of the base of the trunk, the obvious exception being the cascade shaped bonsai which require deeper pots to balance their cascading form.
they should also be  frost proof so that they do not crack and break outdoors, and they must have  adequate drainage holes.
wider containers are more stable (less likely to tip over).
- obtain (or make up) a potting mix which you consider appropriate for growing bonsai in.
one should also bear in mind when potting up bonsai that a  dormant deciduous tree will look more expansive once it comes into leaf.
- make up a list of resources/contacts useful to a bonsai grower.
provided that there is some unity with the contents.
smaller containers need to be deeper in proportion to width  than do wider containers in order to provide sufficient soil and water for the  bonsai plants.
netsuranari (several trunks from the one root) - one plant that is split  into several trunks at the base.
home courses info - horticulture - health-science - psychology & counselling - photography - writing & journalism - more... enrolment - agriculture - environment - natural health - publishing - more... about us contact us - fees - how to enrol - terms and conditions - more... ©acs distance education 2011 — credits:silk icon set
plainer shapes such as these are better than more elaborate types, regardless of the bonsai style.
traditionally, bonsai pots are made of clay based substances such as  porcelain, stoneware, and terracotta.
click here to return to the homepage - home - courses - horticulture - certificates and diplomas - crops - general horticulture - herbs - home gardening - hydroponics - landscaping - nursery and propagation - permaculture and self sufficiency - plant varieties - trees - turf - agriculture - business and management - ecotourism and adventure activities - education - environmental - equine - health science - health, fitness and recreation - hospitality - information technology - pet care - photography - practicals and workshops - psychology - research - science - special offers - writing and journalism - enrolment - make a payment - problem based learning - acs plagiarism policy - apply for credits (rpl) - design your own course - exam application - fees - how to enrol - learning methods - sample course notes - sample horticulture exam - sample human nutrition exam - sample psychology exam - terms and conditions - why study with acs?
- learn a range of bonsai styles and techniques used to achieve them.
understand landscape design principles to better create bonsai landscapes.
test the  drainage of the potting mix.
kengai (drooping trunk) - a tree leaning to one side, and contorted.
as a very general rule of thumb, the depth of the pot should be  approximately the same as the width of the base of the trunk, the obvious  exception being the cascade shaped bonsai which require deeper pots to balance  their cascading form.
roots tend to grow through the bottom of  pots when there is moist soil, compost or mulch under the pot.
what you will do - develop plant review sheets for different plants suitable for bonsai.
- obtain plants of different varieties and using what you have learned in the course, turn your chosen plants into bonsai and either photograph or draw what you have created; then report on this work.
a bonsai container should have a width which is approximately the same as the spread of the branches.
roots tend to grow through the bottom of pots when there is moist soil, compost or mulch under the pot.
traditionally, bonsai pots are made of clay based substances such as porcelain, stoneware, and terracotta.
wider containers  are more stable (less likely to tip over).
- design a miniature garden pot incorporating a bonsai plant - using your knowledge of landscaping principles, decide on the best outdoor locations three different bonsai, and the optimum indoor locations for short term display.
- understand methods of propagation used in bonsai.
- research what constitutes a good propagating mix.
what are the different types of bonsai
bankan (curved trunk) - a single twisted trunk (e.g. bending in 4  directions).
make up a list of resources/contacts useful to a bonsai grower.
courses can be started at any time from anywhere in the world!
- evaluate, prune, wire, shape and pot different plants as bonsai - obtain soil from two different types of soils; test the soils for drainage, and name the soils.
a rectangular or square  container would suit a more formal style than a round or oval container.
different focus: develop problem solving skills that make you stand out from others • hands on: develop practical as well as theoretical skills • lots of help: dedicated and knowledgeable tutors (faculty of internationally renowned horticulturists) • efficient: prompt responses to your questions • reliable: established in 1979, independent school with a solid history • up to date: courses under constant review • resources: huge wealth of constantly developing intellectual property • value: courses compare very favourably on a cost per study hour basis • student amenities: online student room, bookshop, ebooks, acs garden online resources.
- suiseki (stone without plant) - here a stone, or several stones, is arranged in the bonsai pot without any plants at all.
a bonsai container should have a width which is approximately the same as  the spread of the branches.
one way (used in japan) is  as follows: chokkan (straight trunk) - one straight trunk, with an even taper from the  base to the top.
the inside of a bonsai pot should never  be glazed, although the outside can be.
one way (used in japan) is as follows: - chokkan (straight trunk) - one straight trunk, with an even taper from the base to the top.
there are usually between 3 and 5 trunks, but  never more than 10.
- kabudachi (group of trees) - several trees growing together (up to 9).the bases are all together so they might almost appear to be the same tree.
roots tend to coil more in a round pot  than a square pot.
there are usually between 3 and 5 trunks, but never more than 10.
these plants can be unstable, which is a  disadvantage when displaying them.
ishizuki (tree with a stone) - the roots of the tree grow over the top of  a rock and into the soil below.
take photographs or sketch the locations in which you would place the bonsai.
you might like to think of it as being somewhat similar to a picture frame.
choosing a bonsai container all bonsai containers will have drainage  holes, and occasionally containers will have sealed compartments to hold water  (to form a lake), or holes to poke wire through when re-potting the bonsai.
the bonsai display can be finished off by the addition of a bamboo mat or by placing it on a simple stone slab or plank of wood.
waterlogged plants will not thrive, and may even die.
deeper pots have fewer air spaces between the soil particles.
anthracnose, powdery mildew and rust - watering and fertilising bonsai symptoms of water deficiency, symptoms of excess water and fertilising.
anthracnose, powdery mildew and rust watering and fertilising bonsai symptoms of water deficiency, symptoms of  excess water and fertilising.
likewise,  a bonsai container must enhance the contents within.
- visit a nursery and observe the nursery stock present to assess suitability for bonsai production.
payment plans available.
e-learning (5% discount)
branches alternate from side to side as you progress up the trunk.
this  is copying the appearance of trees growing in exposed conditions such as a  rocky outcrop on a mountainside.
- bankan (curved trunk) - a single twisted trunk (e.g. bending in 4 directions).
aims - demonstrate knowledge of the plant kingdom, an understanding of the taxonomic hierarchy, and an appreciation of the types of plants suitable for bonsai.
and potting mixes - other propagation methods layering, air layering and grafting.
to a friend is this course perfect for someone you know?
uneven pot base stands can be corrected by filing or adding filler as needed.
2012 is acs's 33rd year in business!
bonsai pots come in a wide range of sizes from as small as thimble sized  mame pots to containers of eighteen inches in depth.
usually  look more pleasing than bright colours, although bright colours can work
conduct tests to name the potting mix you have obtained.
- kengai (drooping trunk) - a tree leaning to one side, and contorted.
there are different ways of classifying bonsai.
a pot needs to have a  sufficient number of large drainage holes to allow water to drain quickly away  from the bottom of the pot.
suiseki (stone without plant) - here a stone, or several stones, is  arranged in the bonsai pot without any plants at all.
tips for choosing a bonsai pot an integral part of bonsai is the container which is used to present the art form.
choosing a bonsai container all bonsai containers will have drainage holes, and occasionally containers will have sealed compartments to hold water (to form a lake), or holes to poke wire through when re-potting the bonsai.
sakei japanese classification bonsai containers preparing the container wire wiring a bonsai tools needed for bonsai work pruning tools, potting tools and wiring  tools.
pots are therefore best stood on top of a dry, paved or flat stone surface.
click here to complete your enrolment contact details ph +61 7 5562 1088 fax +61 7 5562 1099
unglazed pots in earthy tones usually look more pleasing than bright colours, although bright colours can work provided that there is some unity with the contents.
tall containers, which may  be round, square, hexagonal, and so forth are best suited to cascade style  plantings or semi-cascade bonsai.
aims demonstrate knowledge of the plant kingdom, an understanding of the  taxonomic hierarchy, and an appreciation of the types of plants suitable for  bonsai.
formal upright, informal upright, slanting or leaning, semi cascade, cascade - other styles of classification eg.
each lesson culminates in an assignment which is submitted to the school, marked by the school's tutors and returned to you with any relevant suggestions, comments, and if necessary, extra reading.
wide, shallow containers  are well suited to group plantings and landscapes.
click any icon for more information.
there is also a range of other pot materials (even including plastic) that can be perfectly acceptable provided they meet the needs of the bonsai.
- visit a bonsai house, bonsai farm, bonsai nursery or other facility where bonsai are available for viewing and classify the style of different bonsai plants.
what you will do develop plant review sheets for different plants suitable for bonsai.
- propagate different species of plant that have the potential to be used as bonsai.
subtle glazes can work  well, or crackled and speckled glazes - but not with all specimens.
view sample click here to get personalised advice.
subtle glazes can work well, or crackled and speckled glazes - but not with all specimens.
unglazed pots in earthy tones
submit these photographs with your assignment.
learn a range of bonsai styles and techniques used to achieve them.
this is copying the appearance of trees growing in exposed conditions such as a rocky outcrop on a mountainside.
such legs can assist with the drainage of a pot, as it raises the pot up above the level of the shelf.
you might like to think of it as being  somewhat similar to a picture frame.
although bonsai containers  are usually quite shallow, it also needs to able to hold sufficient growing  media for the plant.
if you like the look of a  container without drainage holes, then drill some into the base.
online i am studying from...
- the nutrient elements macronutrients and micronutrients - common pest problems on bonsai eg. aphids, borers, caterpillars, scale and thrips.
- carry out research into a particular aspect of bonsai of interest to the student.
wide, shallow containers are well suited to group plantings and landscapes.
it must complement and not take away from the picture by being too brightly coloured, too fancy, or too large.
test the drainage of the potting mix.
trunks are branched on each tree to form odd numbers (1, 3, 5 etc. trunks) per tree.
the information given is for general information and should not be regarded as advice in any matter.
learn the species of plants most suited to bonsai.
the tree should never look lost by placing it in a  container which is too large for it, nor should it look too big for the  container.
tips for choosing a bonsai pot an integral part of bonsai is the container which is used to present the  art form.
bonsai culture and maintenance soils soil composition, colloids, structure, texture, chemical  properties, improving soils, improving texture, improving structure, improving  fertility.
smaller containers need to be deeper in proportion to width than do wider containers in order to provide sufficient soil and water for the bonsai plants.
such legs can  assist with the drainage of a pot, as it raises the pot up above the level of  the shelf.
- ishizuki (tree with a stone) - the roots of the tree grow over the top of a rock and into the soil below.
once established the lowest branches commence at about one  quarter of the way up the trunk from the base.
understand the basics of successful bonsai culture.
the tree should never look lost by placing it in a container which is too large for it, nor should it look too big for the container.
make a list of the most commonly grown varieties of plants you consider  as being used for bonsai today.
evaluate, prune, wire, shape and pot different plants as bonsai obtain soil from two different types of soils; test the soils for  drainage, and name the soils.
the weight of the soil on top squashes the soil underneath.
yoseue (collective plantings) - several plants in one container to give  the appearance of a forest.
- evaluating the bonsai and assessing additional features - pruning and shaping the bonsai plant prune and grow techniques - wiring wiring techniques and grooming - branch patterns in bonsai jins, shari and driftwood - root evaluation in the initial stages of bonsai potting the bonsai, rock planting, clasped to rock design and root over rock.
most bonsai specialist retail outlets offer a range of containers originating from the tokaname area of japan.
bonsai in tubs and landscape features special assignment research a particular aspect of bonsai of interest.
the bonsai may remain in the same pot for several years or, in the  case of older tress, for many years.
- saikei - a living landscape: often combining plants, rocks and water.
- understand landscape design principles to better create bonsai landscapes.
design a miniature garden pot incorporating a bonsai plant using your knowledge of landscaping principles, decide on the best  outdoor locations three different bonsai, and the optimum indoor locations for  short term display.
soil, nutrition, water management, pest control, plant identification, etc)" lesson structure there are 8 lessons in this course: - introduction - plant taxonomy botanical/horticultural nomenclature, the binomial system, botanical classification, plant families and species, hybrids, varieties and cultivars - pronunciation of plant names - groups of plants - resources reference books, organisations, magazines and journals, nurseries, bonsai shops, seed suppliers and the internet.
one should also bear in mind when potting up bonsai that a dormant deciduous tree will look more expansive once it comes into leaf.
subscribe to the acs newsletter subscribe for special offers, new services, courses, books, opportunities, free stuff and more!
obtain plants of different varieties and using what you have learned in  the course, turn your chosen plants into bonsai and either photograph or draw  what you have created; then report on this work.
research what constitutes a good propagating mix.
it is important therefore that thepot  suits the tree or composition within.
there is also a range of other pot materials (even including  plastic) that can be perfectly acceptable provided they meet the needs of the  bonsai.
creating bonsai principles of design roots, trunk and branches.
course notes what do our courses look like?
send details click here to view sample course notes.
the inside of a bonsai pot should never be glazed, although the outside can be.
kabudachi (group of trees) - several trees growing together (up to 9).the  bases are all together so they might almost appear to be the same tree.
they should also be frost proof so that they do not crack and break outdoors, and they must have adequate drainage holes.
it must complement and not take away from  the picture by being too brightly coloured, too fancy, or too large.
it is important that the pot is level to allow for optimum drainage.
- propagation - introduction - methods of propagating plants sexual propagation, asexual propagation - seed propagation collecting seed, storing seed and sowing seed - cutting propagation stem cuttings, hardwood cuttings, semi-hardwood cuttings, leaf cuttings, leaf bud cuttings, root cuttings, factors affecting rooting of cuttings, striking cuttings, after care.
saikei - a living landscape: often combining plants, rocks and water.
in some  countries, it is possible to obtain marble, soapstone and other stone type  containers.
once established the lowest branches commence at about one quarter of the way up the trunk from the base.
- bonsai in tubs and landscape features - special assignment - research a particular aspect of bonsai of interest.
- make a list of the most commonly grown varieties of plants you consider as being used for bonsai today.
deeper pots have fewer air spaces between the  soil particles.
in some countries, it is possible to obtain marble, soapstone and other stone type containers.
tall containers, which may be round, square, hexagonal, and so forth are best suited to cascade style plantings or semi-cascade bonsai.
- understand the basics of successful bonsai culture.
evaluating the bonsai and assessing additional features pruning and shaping the bonsai plant prune and grow techniques wiring wiring techniques and grooming branch patterns in bonsai jins, shari and driftwood root evaluation in the initial stages of bonsai potting the bonsai, rock  planting, clasped to rock design and root over rock.
- netsuranari (several trunks from the one root) - one plant that is split into several trunks at the base.
- understand the process of creating bonsai.
- creating bonsai - principles of design roots, trunk and branches.
formal upright, informal upright,  slanting or leaning, semi cascade, cascade other styles of classification
while every effort is made to ensure that we display correct information on our website, errors can occur.
another approximation is that a vertical tree needs a  container that is two thirds to three quarters the height of the tree in width,  or a horizontal tree needs a container that is two thirds to three quarters the  width of the tree.
another approximation is that a vertical tree needs a container that is two thirds to three quarters the height of the tree in width, or a horizontal tree needs a container that is two thirds to three quarters the width of the tree.
• reputation: well-known and respected in horticulture • industry focus: courses designed to suit industry needs and expectations •
sakei - japanese classification - bonsai techniques - bonsai containers preparing the container - wire wiring a bonsai - pruning - tools needed for bonsai work pruning tools, potting tools and wiring tools.
although bonsai containers are usually quite shallow, it also needs to able to hold sufficient growing media for the plant.
deeper pots therefore need a more open soil mix.
placing the bonsai principles of landscape design unity, balance, proportion, harmony,  contrast and rhythm qualities of landscape components line, form, mass, space, texture,  colour and tone creating landscape effects landscape applications for using bonsai group plantings, ssaikei,  bonseki, bonkei, miniature gardens, rock gardens, water gardens.
the bonsai display can be finished off by the addition of a bamboo mat or by  placing it on a simple stone slab or plank of wood.
some pots will be more effective with legs or a base stand.
branches alternate from side to  side as you progress up the trunk.
- placing the bonsai - landscaping principles for bonsai - principles of landscape design unity, balance, proportion, harmony, contrast and rhythm - qualities of landscape components line, form, mass, space, texture, colour and tone - creating landscape effects - landscape applications for using bonsai group plantings, ssaikei, bonseki, bonkei, miniature gardens, rock gardens, water gardens.
click here to read about our history.
it's easy to enrol select a learning method correspondence
- conduct tests to name the potting mix you have obtained.
take photographs or sketch the locations in which you would  place the bonsai.