author: lucy debenham ba (hons) -  updated: 25 september 2010 | comment tweet container gardening is one of the most popular ways to cram in as many  flowers and edible produce into as small space as possible.
all containers will then need a layer of coarse material at the bottom,  broken clean crocks, broken polystyrene, chipped slate or gravel will all be  fine.
how to make your own car windscreen cleaner make your own recycled wooden planter a kitchen herb garden for all garden sizes make your own medicinal herb and flower garden how to make a green roof for your shed make your own organic fertiliser make your own barbeque make your own compost heap make your own planters and pots make your own insect repellents make your own organic compost make your own cloche & mini greenhouse make your own potato planter make your own salad box
whilst standard shop-bought terracotta and glazed pots are pleasant enough, you may want to opt for something a little more individual or eclectic.
it's vital that any items you choose for containers  are adequate for growing plants in.
a visit to a salvage  yard, antique shop or thrift store can inspire a wealth of ideas for containers  - from old chimney pots, wooden barrels, wooden toolboxes and even old leather  boots!
kiln-fired clay can be left outside and is a perfect  natural material for pot planters, as it allows the soil to 'breathe'.
making your own pots and planters from recycled materials is one great way to create bespoke and unique designs on a small budget.
a visit to a salvage yard, antique shop or thrift store can inspire a wealth of ideas for containers - from old chimney pots, wooden barrels, wooden toolboxes and even old leather boots!
make sure you allow the pva to  dry before you start your mosaic.
mosaic designs are one way to recycle old materials into something new and  one of a kind.
once you've stuck all the pieces to the pot and you're happy with your design, you'll need to leave the adhesive to set overnight.
to stick the tile pieces to the pot, you'll need a fairly strong adhesive like 'no more nails'.
mosaic designs are one way to recycle old materials into something new and one of a kind.
this can be done with a layer of concentrated pva glue and a paintbrush.
this can be done with a  layer of concentrated pva glue and a paintbrush.
alternatively, you could always try sprucing up existing pots.
another great way to integrate recycled materials into your garden is to  use spent large tins and pots.
but acquiring a new skill such as pottery will give you free abandon to  create your own unique and tailor made pieces, as well as giving you access to  glazing and firing techniques.
this means that you may need to take  a hammer to your tiles and porcelain - safety glasses can be worn in case of  any flying splinters - to create small tile pieces no larger than ¾ inch.
and you never know, your new hobby could turn  into a new business venture!
foreign packaging designs can be bright and fun, and the containers will not only look cheerful, but also rust and age in a very interesting way.
previous  page related articles in the 'garden projects' category...
recycled pots and planters there are almost an endless amount of  recycled items that can be used as pots and planters.
whilst standard shop-bought terracotta and glazed pots are pleasant enough,  you may want to opt for something a little more individual or eclectic.
after this time you'll be able to grout the spaces between the tiles with  waterproof tile grout to complete your homemade mosaic pot plant.
metal or plastic buckets can also be used to plant in, as long as they  have drainage.
make your own cushions contact us sitemap about makingyourown home
old metal watering cans are popular, as are redundant bicycles and their baskets.
making  your own pots and planters from recycled materials is one great way to create  bespoke and unique designs on a small budget.
make sure you allow the pva to dry before you start your mosaic.
make your own why not test any burgeoning art skills and create your  own pots and containers.
how to make your own car windscreen cleaner make your own recycled wooden planter a kitchen herb garden for all garden sizes make your own medicinal herb and flower garden how to make a green roof for your shed make your own organic fertiliser make your own barbeque make your own compost heap make your own planters and pots make your own insect repellents our most popular...
if you have a small  garden, or your only outside space consists of a balcony or patio, in many ways  the containers you plant up will be just as aesthetically important as the  flowers, vegetables or fruit that go into them.
old belfast-style sinks and even porcelain toilets and standalone baths have been sunk into the ground and used as pots and planters!
before you startit's vital that any items you choose for containers are adequate for growing plants in.
all containers will then need a layer of coarse material at the bottom, broken clean crocks, broken polystyrene, chipped slate or gravel will all be fine.
if you can get your hands on the wholesale size metal oil drums (available from food co-operatives, cash and carry stores or larger supermarkets, or ask around at restaurants and cafes), they can make fantastic pots and planters.
but acquiring a new skill such as pottery will give you free abandon to create your own unique and tailor made pieces, as well as giving you access to glazing and firing techniques.
mosaic pot for the mosaic pieces, you can use old porcelain plates,  pots or cups and glass tiles but you will need to make sure that they're small  enough to go around the curve of the pot.
if there are no holes, you  will need to drill a few in with a power drill.
metal or plastic buckets can also be used to plant in, as long as they have drainage.
foreign packaging designs can be bright and fun,  and the containers will not only look cheerful, but also rust and age in a very  interesting way.
old metal watering cans are popular, as are redundant bicycles and their  baskets.
you could also think about using ceramic materials.
they'll need to have drainage holes at the bottom, to avoid the soil becoming too waterlogged.
similarly, smaller items like teacups and ceramic bowls can also make interesting planters.
why not be the first to leave a comment?
home > garden projects > make your own planters and pots make your own planters and pots author: lucy debenham ba (hons) - updated: 25 september 2010 | comment tweet container gardening is one of the most popular ways to cram in as many flowers and edible produce into as small space as possible.
this means that you may need to take a hammer to your tiles and porcelain - safety glasses can be worn in case of any flying splinters - to create small tile pieces no larger than ¾ inch.
title: miss ms mrs mr dr rev'd prof.
they'll need to have drainage holes at the  bottom, to avoid the soil becoming too waterlogged.
if you have a small garden, or your only outside space consists of a balcony or patio, in many ways the containers you plant up will be just as aesthetically important as the flowers, vegetables or fruit that go into them.
previous page next page related articles in the 'garden projects' category...
mosaic potfor the mosaic pieces, you can use old porcelain plates, pots or cups and glass tiles but you will need to make sure that they're small enough to go around the curve of the pot.
after this time you'll be able to grout the spaces between the tiles with waterproof tile grout to complete your homemade mosaic pot plant.
please read our disclaimer.
the planters can then be potted up with compost as usual.
home > garden projects > make your own planters and pots make your own planters and pots
if you can get your hands on the wholesale size  metal oil drums (available from food co-operatives, cash and carry stores or  larger supermarkets, or ask around at restaurants and cafes), they can make  fantastic pots and planters.
make your ownwhy not test any burgeoning art skills and create your own pots and containers.
you could try painting terracotta pots in mediterranean colours, or designing your own motif.
kiln-fired clay can be left outside and is a perfect natural material for pot planters, as it allows the soil to 'breathe'.
site information... readers comments... get our newsletter also on making your own...
if there are no holes, you will need to drill a few in with a power drill.
whilst small pots can be crafted in clay at home, you might need to join an evening class to have access to proper pottery equipment.
blank terracotta pots are ideal, but because they have a porous  surface they'll need sealing before you mosaic them.
firstname: (never shown)
recycled pots and plantersthere are almost an endless amount of recycled items that can be used as pots and planters.
and you never know, your new hobby could turn into a new business venture!
blank terracotta pots are ideal, but because they have a porous surface they'll need sealing before you mosaic them.
you should seek independent professional advice before acting upon any information on the makingyourown website.
your own car windscreen cleaner - make your own recycled wooden planter - a kitchen herb garden for all garden sizes - make your own medicinal herb and flower garden - how to make a green roof for your shed - make your own organic fertiliser - make your own barbeque - make your own compost heap - make your own planters and pots - make your own insect repellents - make your own organic compost - make your own cloche & mini greenhouse - make your own potato planter - make your own salad box comments...
you could  try painting terracotta pots in mediterranean colours, or designing your own  motif.
© makingyourown 2000-2012 terms & privacy
once you've stuck all the pieces to the pot and you're  happy with your design, you'll need to leave the adhesive to set overnight.
old belfast-style sinks  and even porcelain toilets and standalone baths have been sunk into the ground  and used as pots and planters!
similarly, smaller items like teacups and  ceramic bowls can also make interesting planters.
nickname: (shown) comment: notify: notify me by email when a response is posted validate: enter word: our quick links... food projects... garden projects... eco projects... hobbies & craft... health & beauty... educational projects...
whilst  small pots can be crafted in clay at home, you might need to join an evening  class to have access to proper pottery equipment.
to stick the tile pieces to the pot, you'll need a fairly strong adhesive  like 'no more nails'.
another great way to integrate recycled materials into your garden is to use spent large tins and pots.
surname: (never shown)