thin plants, to  ensure light and health.
orange and purple seem a close second and third.
my next group is a little  more out of the box.
they will hang around all summer, raise a  few eggs and leave in the late summer or early fall.
did i mention, it's  in a ceramic bright orange window box ???
plant with the growing tip up.
what a  nice thing for someone to do, i know it would make me feel special.
caring for bulbs in winter and in spring after the  ground freezes, add a few inches of mulch to prevent alternate freezing  and thawing.
traditional flower arrangements,  are an excellent gift, we all feel the positive impacted of flowers, the sense  of happiness, how they make us smile and just feel better about everything.
selecting bulbs and planting bulbs ---- pick the largest ones because there is a direct correlation between the size of the bulb and size of the flower.
i've had many homes with huge gardens, show gardens on  tours and plantings of unusual and exotic flowers and plants that don't  necessarily grow in our environment.
your local  florist or garden center can help with information and education on what plants  will do best for your yard.
red is their favorite color.
almost any plant can be given as a  great gift, from patio pots filled with annual flowers to hanging baskets of  petunias, lobelia and potato vines.
their daily search of nectar is vital and need to find and visit  hundreds of flowers to feed.
visually, perennials give depth to property, and are a great background to soften fences and walls.
most garden centers have perennials potted up in fun  containers, ready to slap a bow on them, blooms of columbine, pansies, primrose  with the leafiness of ornamental kale to round it out.
imagine a beautiful lilac shrub, foil  wrapped with a periwinkle bow with planting instructions to plant, in honor of  a friends pet that has passed....
from the dwarf zinnias to hedge-type marigolds, size and shape is up to  you.
it sometimes touches our very fiber of who we are and stirs up memories of times past and future promises.
nature and plants can affect our moods  and well being.
hummingbirds revisit a route they follow year in and year out, this practice is called "traplining."
now that you know your conditions, i would go to the garden center and pick out  some cool, colorful, maybe even funky pots.
a nice  mixture of canadian sphagnum peat moss, compost, vermiculite,  perilite, charcoal and a wetting agent is recommended.
it  was introduced to western europe and the netherlands in the 17th century.
they might notice the life giving moisture soaking into the ground, rejuvenating shrubs and rose bushes, slowly warming them out of their long winters nap.
it was introduced to western europe and the netherlands in the 17th century.
bulbs should be planted to a depth of three to four times the height of the bulbs.
how much space do i have ?
the huge bonus is,  butterflies are attracted to the same plants, who could ask for more?
tips on how to get started and grow your seeds  indoors: seeds are made up of three basic parts, (1) an embryo.(2) a supply of  nutrients, and (3) a seed coat.
so, early this fall, plant these gems around your “palace”  and smile to yourself for being so smart, knowing they’ll  reward you next spring.
(maybe someday, some young writer will quote  me.
there's  calibrachoas, verbenas and coleus.
perennials  they'll dig...bee balm, cannas, cardinal flower,coneflower, columbine (my state  flower), coral bells, four o'clocks, foxglove, agastache,lupine, penstemon and  the yucca.
ask your local garden center guru for their recommendations and advise.
the great thing about annual bedding plants is this year, you love hot orange, but last year you planted all yellow and pink, and next year purple might be your top choice.
with thousands of choices of seed packets to choose from,  it's best to have a plan.
a side  note, the use of pesticides around our tiny friends is not cool, be safe and  natural.
seed packets themselves are  like little works of art.
during spring, remove flowers as they wither, but don’t be afraid to cut some and enjoy them in vases in the home.
the busy and sometimes hectic lives we live can be made more tolerable by just stopping and smelling the roses.
if you can help establish a garden of beautiful plants they will be lured to you and return.
they also are great companions to trees and shrubs and help in the resale of a home.
placing out feeders certainly helps, but planting flowers is the best solution to helping our little friend.
sure , we all still stock clay pots and plastic  containers, but what a great opportunity to jazz it up with some  neat brightly colored pots of different shapes and sizes.
attracting hummingbirds to your garden can make for a very pleasant summer,  share their story, relationships, and flight plans with your friends and  family.
when planting ground covers, follow the same tips as perennials.
have fun, experiment with new varieties and plants you've never used.
now over 50, i've decided to scale it down.
there are traditional bloomers like poinsettias, mums,  shamrocks, azaleas and easter lilies.
the misdiagnosed death of an army  officers two year old child started the tale.
gardening shouldn't be rocket science and it shouldn't be hard or difficult, what i'd like it to be, for everyone is a kick, fun and funky with alot of individual style.
check out this  "service in action" sheet written by my friend, dr. steven e. newman  and b.e. edmunds at colorado state university, simply called ,"  poinsettias" number 7.412 at www.ext.colostate.edu for re-flowering  details and further info.
no doubt, spring  is my favorite time of year.
in this day and age, there are so many of us that have downsized.
visiting your favorite garden center and  selecting the flowers, vegetables and herbs you'll grow for the upcoming season  really tends to bring out your indoor farmer gene.
i love to talk about annuals.
now that we all are educated and excited about the  most misunderstood plant for the holidays, enjoy them in your home, at the  office, and in flower arrangements.
the perfect plant as a gift to family and  friends that convey the christmas spirit.
early blooms of basket of gold alyssum, to mid summer’s stella de oro daylily and shasta daisies, then finishing with fall’s
fall planted, spring blooming bulbs, such as tulips, crocus and daffodils, start to emerge, their noses pushing through the soil.
it's your deck, your the one that will be sitting back and relaxing with your margarita gazing on them and saying, "very nice, cool flowers and oh, by the way, i designed and planted them !"
untagged the amazing hummingbird and the plants they love !!!
some hybrids and mutations of the flower were seen as rare and a sign of upper status.
from the mini to the topiary  tree types, hanging baskets, centerpiece styles and standard sizes of 4",  6", 8",10" and 12" pots, you'll be able to find what suits  your needs.
enjoy,  the flower guy !
remember,  we all share this big blue marble with some amazing flowers... and the animals  who love them !!!
a unique collection of annuals, tropical's, succulents, grasses, herbs and vegetables.
coneflower, sedums, fall aster, chrysanthemum, german  statice, gayfeather, tall garden phlox, russian sage and ornamental grasses.
today's selection of pottery is so  much better than years ago.
on may 4, 2012 posted by:  brian in myblog tagged in: untagged planting perennials and ground covers
one such character is the amazing hummingbird and relationship with the  plants they love.
plant pansies, too a great addition to your bulb beds  are pansies.
if your bulb is 2″, plant it around 6″ to 8″ deep.
these will allow you to have a full spring and early summer  of color.
wow, that sounds really quite heavy, but oh, so true.
tips for planting perennials: choose location and blooming times check plant hardiness for your neck of the woods consider factors of sun,  shade, wind, soil type and water source plan it on paper, which is much easier to correct than digging plants back  up to relocate prepare a list of desired plants with heights and spread, blooming time  and color
but most of all impress the folks driving by that say, “wow, that’s a beautiful flower garden
i personally am  guilty and love it.
like i've said, "you are only limited by your own imagination !"
they’ll notice the buds on tree branches start to swell, the buzzing of bees, and a red breasted robin with a worm in its beak preparing for a new family.
check the blooming times on the bulb package; some will say, very early, early, mid or late.
did i mention, it's in a ceramic bright orange window box ???
tip: plant a solid block of color because in bloom, it is truly impressive.
our hort couture plants will begin arriving in mid to late april, see  you at the greenhouse, the flower guy below is new, up and coming, horticultural brand called,  "hort couture" on mar 14, 2011 posted by: brian in myblog tagged in: untagged  end >>
need a sunny window important to start seeds four to eight weeks before the plant-out date in  your area.(average date of last killing frost)
so, here  are a few plant to have fun with.
the selections are only limited to your  imagination.
across the nation, there are times when you anticipate the next big show by  mother nature.
avoid those that show evidence of mold or mechanical damage.
they will be your new best friends if you supply the annuals of fuchsia, impatiens, petunias, salvias and shrimp plant.
so, plan your "hummer  garden" carefully with some plants i'll suggest.
if you can help establish a garden of beautiful plants  they will be lured to you and return.
today, that’s all in the past, the popularity of the  tulip is ever present.
visit a tulip festival.
they will hang around all summer, raise a few eggs and leave in the late summer or early fall.
visually, perennials  give depth to property, and are a great background to soften fences and walls.
let me share with you a short history on tulip bulbs, and tell you about site, soil prep, selection (the fun part), planting and growing.
believe it or not, now is the time to plant the bulbs for next spring’s bloom.
these will allow you to have a full spring and early summer of color.
caring for bulbs in winter and in spring after the ground freezes, add a few inches of mulch to prevent alternate freezing and thawing.
the aztecs cultivated the poinsettia in mexico.
remember those beautiful tulips, daffodils, hyacinths and crocus that were  blooming in the spring?
is it full sun,  shade, part sun, windy, and ease of watering.
maybe, a lime  colored strawberry pot with dark blue lobelias trailing out, with  purple  gomphrenas as the focal point on top.
but, maybe, next time try a red banana in the middle, surrounded by hot lips salvia with some blue ageratum with fiery orange celosia and sun loving coleus of lime around the edge mixed with double purple calibrachoa.
now, i know your mom said, " she heard " they are  poisonous.
make sure you are paying  attention to this.
what i'm going to tell you about is other plants that are fun to  present to your host, friends or family anytime for any reason, or no reason at  all, except to say, "i saw this and thought you'd enjoy it !"
the overcast gray skies and gloomy frozen landscape of the midwest can be depressing, and for some, the only cure is spring.
this cycle  started long before we showed up and will continue long after we are gone.
they love the h2o, so keep'em  moist.
mixed pots are as unique as the gardeners who plant them.
so my wish for you this  spring is to take a  moment to look around at what nature has to offer.
we need to understand the relationship between us and the important role that flowers, plants, bees, birds, bats, insects and animals play in our well being and the health of our world.
they weigh less than a penny, fly 500 miles non-stop flights from mexico and central american and thousand more miles to reach their destinations.
here are a few ground cover favorites to consider: enjoy your perennial wonders of nature and they’ll reward you with years of colorful blooms.
attracting hummingbirds to your garden can make for a very pleasant summer, share their story, relationships, and flight plans with your friends and family.
good drainage is a must.
enjoy a  great summer of color in the flower garden.
fall planted,  spring blooming bulbs, such as tulips, crocus and daffodils, start to emerge,  their noses pushing through the soil.
be sure to ask your local garden center about when the best time to plant is in your area.
red is the most common, but many colors are now available.
add organic matter to improve soil quality if needed to help with drainage  and aeration early spring: rock cress, creeping phlox, basket of gold, english daisy,  lily-of-the-valley, candytuft, pasque flower, mossy saxifrage, hellebores,  violas and sandwort early summer: ajuga, columbine, sea thrift, forget-me-not, sweet woodruff,  iris, dianthus, bleeding heart, penstemon, periwinkle, flax, snow-in-summer and  peony.
in our world of  flowers and plants, we sometimes forget just how much mother nature is the boss  in all aspects of flora and fauna.
when  those flowers emerge in the spring from their winter slumber, it is truly  magical.
it’s a fun way to spend time with the family as you pick colors, plant  for the season, and then watch them produce color until fall.
gardeners and even non-gardeners notice the changes of our seasons, when the green patches of lawn peek out from a snow covered yard and the faces of pansies tilt upwards toward the sun on a cold late winter day.
a high fashion  series of plants that gives you a wow  and now excitement in the garden.
join us on facebook!
and it seems to stay in bloom all season!”
is it full sun, shade, part sun, windy, and ease of watering.
cyclamens sporting upright spiral flowers of purples, reds, white and  bi-colors.
the wonderful christmas plant (euphorbia pulcherrima) is the most widely tested  consumer plant on the market today, and shows not to be toxic to either humans  or animals.
putting shade-loving double impatiens in full sun will just  frustrate you and defeat your goal.
perennials may serve as natural borders along fences or property lines and require less irrigation and maintenance than turf grass.
my two umbrella planters on the tables are small scale golf greens, planted with irish and scotch moss surrounded with smooth pebbles, a teed up callaway finish the look.
its name comes from the turkish word for turban.
enjoy the promise of growth and admire creation.
i like to call them the “workhorses” of the flower garden.
during my 30 years in the garden center business, there is one question that is asked more than all others: “what’s the difference between an annual and a perennial?”
annuals are an inexpensive way to change  the curb appeal of your home and stay updated with fashion and color trends.
there is quite a buzz in our industry and we look forward to  sharing it with you, our dedicated lafayette florist gardeners !!!
like  i've said, "you are only limited by your own imagination !"
a true status symbol planted  in palace gardens.
trailing plants: verbena, lobelia, vinca vine, sweet potato vine, calibrachoa, lantana, scaevola and bacopa climbing plants: morning glory, nasturtium, black-eyed susan vine and scarlet runner bean shade lovers: impatiens, begonias, fuchsia, coleus, mimulus, torenia, browallia and balsa fragrant flowers: nicotiana, sweet alyssum, scented geraniums, stock, heliotrope and four o’clocks patio pots: spike, dahlias, calibrachoa, gerbera, osteospermum, bidens, geraniums, petunias, marigolds, pansy, viola, helichrysum, chrysanthemum daisy, new guinea impatiens, asparagus fern, statice, ivy, herbs and veggies of all kinds.
poinsettias thrive on indirect, natural daylight, at least six  hours a day.
my two umbrella planters on the  tables are small scale golf greens, planted with irish and scotch moss  surrounded with smooth pebbles, a teed up callaway finish the look.
it all starts with looking at your location.
click on any of the plants below  to enlarge!
planted after the last frost in your geographical area, they will give you joy all season while providing shades of every color of the rainbow.
and it seems to  stay in bloom all season!”
that would be cool … sorry, i digress.)
hort couture has partnered with breeders, propagators, growers, independent retailers to bring you this never seen before group of plants.
they used the bracts (modified leaves around the flower) for dyes and the latex  to counteract fever.
other tropical's, like hibiscus, fuchsias, anthriums on a  lava rock, jasmines with their amazing fragrance will be a hit.
the  warm fuzzy that someone was or is thinking about us, wishing us well or we are  in their thoughts and have their support at a difficult time in our lives.
summer: snow on the mountain, yarrow, holly hock, agastache, astilbe,  carnation, coreopsis, ice plant, delphinium, foxglove, baby’s breath,  coral bells, red hot poker, lavender, shasta daisy, bee balm, poppy, rudbeckia,  salvia, daylily, hosta and veronica late summer/fall:
azalea, butterfly bush, flowering quince, lantana, weigela and red buckeye.
the flower garden workhorse i love to talk about annuals.
poinsettias do well in our homes and new  colors and new forms are developed every year.
their tiny hearts can reach 1,200 beats a minute.
with that said, here are some  powerful perennials every landscape should consider, and some great ground  covers that are hardy, will return every year and spread, and help reduce weeds  and soil erosion.
in early 1637, there was a complete ‘tulipmania” in the  netherlands, where many rare bulbs would cost more than the average cost  of a house at the time.
a nice group of vines, such as, honeysuckle, morning glory, trumpet creeper, scarlet runner bean are on the menu.
select the perfect plant for you.
the great thing about annual bedding plants is this year,  you love hot orange, but last year you planted all yellow and pink, and next  year purple might be your top choice.
keep moderately  moist, but never allow to sit in water.
don't get nervous, you don't have to mix this, it's already in bags at the greenhouse ready to go, some with a fertilizer already mixed in.
hort couture has partnered with breeders,  propagators, growers, independent retailers to bring you this never seen before  group of plants.
the interest in the flower was huge, and bulbs sold for unbelievably high prices.
the rhododendrons in the southeast, cherry blossoms around the  tidal basin in washington, d.c., the fragrant peonies on the plains of central  illinois, to the golden aspens of fall in our mountains of colorado and the  tulips of skagit valley in washington.
many colors, shapes and sizes are available in fall.
now that you know your conditions, i would go to the garden center and pick out some cool, colorful, maybe even funky pots.
sorry, mom, a 1971 study at ohio state university debunked the rumor  that started way back in 1919 in hawaii.
the window box that is!
our friend, the hummingbird, can fly forward, hover and then fly backwards and is the only bird that can.
the turks cultivated it or tamed it around 1000 ad.
our "gardening area" has diminished to a deck, porch or small patio.
i've had many homes with huge gardens, show gardens on tours and plantings of unusual and exotic flowers and plants that don't necessarily grow in our environment.
now comes the fun part, picking out your plants.
with that said, here are some powerful perennials every landscape should consider, and some great ground covers that are hardy, will return every year and spread, and help reduce weeds and soil erosion.
choosing where to plant bulbs ---- plant them in a  highly visible bed where you, family and friends can see and enjoy  them.
here are a few ground cover favorites to consider: small areas (under 50 square feet): woolly yarrow, pussytoes, mt atlas  daisy, silver mound sage, sedum, hens and chicks, lamb’s ear, creeping  thyme, cranesbill, creeping speedwell and verbena large areas (greater 50 square feet): poppy mallow, snow-in-summer, ice  plant, strawberry, creeping potentilla, rock cotoneaster, catmint, moneywort,  ground ivy, japanese spurge and periwinkle.
sweet, but lacks  pizzazz.
since, then, the flower of the  holy night has been always under the magnifying glass and has proven itself to  be safe.
don't forget the african  violet with it's dainty, but long lived durability.
on jun 16, 2011 posted by: brian in myblog tagged in:
untagged spring 2011 is upon us !!!
nature and plants can affect our moods and well being.
the  recipient will enjoy it in a sunny window and after fear of last frost...on the  deck or patio !!!
the selections are only limited to your imagination.
today's selection of pottery is so much better than years ago.
so now you have some cool pots, time to consider the soil.
the benefits of a well-designed perennial garden can provide many years of beauty and enjoyment.
water well after planting and during dry times when there is no moisture during the winter months.
get more information atwww.hummingbirds.net or with my friends at the colorado state university atwww.ext.coloradostate.edu fact sheet #5.504.
it’s one of those questions that many  are embarrassed about, because they re-ask it every year.
when seeds sprout, move them gradually into sunlight.
placing out feeders certainly helps, but planting  flowers is the best solution to helping our little friend.
ask yourself a few important question.
almost any container with drainage holes in the bottom (great selection at  most mom and pop garden shops) use a rich, well drained weed-free soil mix, many excellent pre-packaged  are available fill container, but do not pack soil tight read seed pack for proper depth or any special instruction water in with fine spray, cover with clear plastic or dome and place in a  cool room (60-65 degrees), keep away from direct sunlight until germination.
spring is when we celebrate regrowth and new beginnings.
on apr 17, 2012 posted  by:brian in myblog tagged in: untagged nature’s
with water, soil prep and a little fertilizer, it’s very rewarding.
here is the response i give to help my customers remember: “an annual is like annual taxes, you have to do them every year.
from fruit and  vegetable production to erosion control, plants and animals are the essential  part of the building blocks of life on this planet.
also, a great  web site on seeds atwww.botanicalinterests.com , enjoy getting in touch with  your inner farmer.
picking the right  flowers for the right location is vital.
this cycle started long before we showed up and will continue long after we are gone.
enjoy your perennial wonders of nature and they’ll reward you with  years of colorful blooms.
the  interest in the flower was huge, and bulbs sold for unbelievably high prices.
adding some polymers in the soil, those little crystals  that reduce watering and labor, will be beneficial to your plants.
nice red geraniums, a spike in the middle, a few  yellow marigolds and petunias and some trailing vinca vine in a brown  pot is nice.
the garden centers and florists  will be able to steer you towards some more interesting choices.
they also are great companions to trees and shrubs and help in the resale of a  home.
i could make a list of all  these extraordinary displays, and every person reading this would add a few  more from where they grew up or live.
on sep 9, 2011 posted by: brian  inmyblog tagged in: untagged thinking outside the box...
bright colors, texture of foliage, bloom and growth sizes, trailing or upright, variegated, are just a few considerations.
fun  blooming plants will give the same reaction and promote having flowers and  plants around as a way of life.
azalea, butterfly bush, flowering quince,  lantana, weigela and red buckeye.
this year there is a trend toward  heirloom varieties and usda certified organic seed.
what a  great "field-trip" to the greenhouse with the kids to explore what  generation after generation did to grow their own crops and beautify their  lives with flowers.
it sometimes touches our very fiber of who we are and stirs up memories of  times past and future promises.
take a walk with the family around your neighborhood and spy on newly  emerging flowers.
here are a few ideas to inspire you in choosing  annuals: borders: lobelia, ageratum, sweet  alyssum, dwarf marigolds, dianthus, moss rose portulaca, dusty miller mass plantings: geraniums, petunias, marigolds, celosia,  cosmos, phlox, vinca and gazanias tall flowering plants: snapdragons, cleome, nicotiana,  salvia, gomphrena and zinnias trailing plants: verbena, lobelia, vinca vine, sweet  potato vine, calibrachoa, lantana, scaevola and bacopa climbing plants: morning glory, nasturtium, black-eyed  susan vine and scarlet runner bean shade lovers: impatiens, begonias, fuchsia, coleus,  mimulus, torenia, browallia and balsa fragrant flowers: nicotiana, sweet  alyssum, scented geraniums, stock, heliotrope and four o’clocks patio pots: spike, dahlias, calibrachoa, gerbera,  osteospermum, bidens, geraniums, petunias, marigolds, pansy, viola,  helichrysum, chrysanthemum daisy, new guinea impatiens, asparagus fern,  statice, ivy, herbs and veggies of all kinds.
there are now a huge variety of "bloomers" that can really  make that gift have a "wow" impact.
autumn joy sedums, offers homeowners constant color throughout the season with less maintenance, less water, and often with fewer pest problems.
dense foliage, but some can become invasive generally, less than 12” tall and spread easily plant where grass is not practical and some tolerate light foot traffic vines, herbaceous plants and shrubs, low growing juniper and  ornamental grasses and moss, are considered excellent groundcovers.
across the nation, there are times when you anticipate the next big show by mother nature.
be  sure to ask your local garden center about when the best time to plant is in  your area.
sure , we all still stock clay pots and plastic containers, but what a great opportunity to jazz it up with some neat brightly colored pots of different shapes and sizes.
you can match them or make them opposites,  monochromatic or psychedelic.
you can match them or make them opposites, monochromatic or psychedelic.
herbs of basil and eight new varieties of  tomatoes.
plant pansies and violas in a colorful pot.
which flowers and plants do you look forward to watching bloom every spring?
bold colors, shapes and sizes, dramatic flares, parrot-types, bunching varieties make this wonderful treasure both affordable and hugely desirable.
there's calibrachoas, verbenas and coleus.
trees and shrubs they love...
these natural events bless us and touch all of our senses, from the smell of lilacs and plumeria, to the soft touch of pussy willows, the sight of pampas grass on a hillside waving in the wind, to the taste of fresh rhubarb and the sound of rustling corn stalks in a late summer breeze, all bring up images of nature’s colorful bounty.
glossary colorful annuals:
from bright red and white  cyclamen to the little pine/spruce trees adorned with bows and ornaments,  plants make a the perfect holiday gift that last well into the new year.
bold colors, shapes and sizes, dramatic  flares, parrot-types, bunching varieties make this wonderful treasure both  affordable and hugely desirable.
having fun with  colorful patio pots !
they weigh less than a penny, fly 500 miles  non-stop flights from mexico and central american and thousand more miles to  reach their destinations.
sunny, dry sites to moist shady spots have numerous perennials and  ground covers that will foot the bill and thrive when properly selected for  their location.
choose a spot with good sunlight and drainage so bulbs will not become waterlogged.
bring branches of apple blossoms and forsythia indoors and let them bloom.
which flowers and plants do you look forward to watching  bloom every spring?
their breeding  programs focused on stronger stems, leaf and bract retention, multiple  branching, earlier blooming and color variations - better quality plants for  you, the consumer.
almost every yard has a place where annuals can be planted.
tulip history --- the original tulip was a wild flower growing in central asia.
on mar 29, 2012 posted by: brian in  myblog tagged in:
year after year, i am told by my customers they would love to get a poinsettia,  but they are poisonous, "and i have kids and pets."
the rhododendrons in the southeast, cherry blossoms around the tidal basin in washington, d.c., the fragrant peonies on the plains of central illinois, to the golden aspens of fall in our mountains of colorado and the tulips of skagit valley in washington.
take a walk with the family around your neighborhood and spy on newly emerging flowers.
some hybrids and mutations of the flower were seen as rare and a sign of upper  status.
“every year of our lives, one thing is certain, the seasons will change, the sun will rise and set, and the flowers will bloom.”
early blooms of basket of gold  alyssum, to mid summer’s stella de oro daylily and shasta daisies, then  finishing with fall’s
this group is wonderful,  some work horses of the blooming plant family.
i could make a list of all these extraordinary displays, and every person reading this would add a few more from where they grew up or live.
so my wish for you this spring is to take a moment to look around at what nature has to offer.
but most of all impress the folks driving  by that say, “wow, that’s a beautiful flower garden
they will be your new best friends if you supply the annuals of  fuchsia, impatiens, petunias, salvias and shrimp plant.
it soon gained popularity as a trading product, especially in holland.
in my area of colorado, the best time to plant is september-october.
i'd like to introduce a new, up and coming, horticultural brand called, "hort couture".
its  name comes from the turkish word for turban.
your local florist or garden center can help with information and education on what plants will do best for your yard.
but, that certainly doesn't mean you can't have a blast gardening  and have some very cool plants and flowers to work with, brag on and enjoy  !
one such character is the amazing hummingbird and relationship with the plants they love.
choose plants with dark green, healthy looking leaves and bright  (unfaded) bracts.
amend your soil with a well-decomposed compost or sphagnum peat moss, this will improve your soil texture, plus, help with aeration and drainage.
a nice group of vines, such as, honeysuckle,  morning glory, trumpet creeper, scarlet runner bean are on the menu.
sunny, dry sites to moist shady spots have numerous perennials and ground covers that will foot the bill and thrive when properly selected for their location.
as a result, december 12th is national poinsettia day and  recognizes poinsett's contribution to history.
they have the highest metabolism of all animals and are always on the brink of starvation.
this “tulip crash” caused their  government to introduce special trading restrictions on the flower.
their daily search of nectar is vital and need to find and visit hundreds of flowers to feed.
believe it or not, now is the time to plant the bulbs  for next spring’s bloom.
but, that certainly doesn't mean you can't have a blast gardening and have some very cool plants and flowers to work with, brag on and enjoy !
a few of my favorites: salpiglossis, schizanthus, nemesia and diascia.
hummingbirds revisit  a route they follow year in and year out, this practice is called  "traplining."
these natural events bless us and touch  all of our senses, from the smell of lilacs and plumeria, to the soft touch of  pussy willows, the sight of pampas grass on a hillside waving in the wind, to  the taste of fresh rhubarb and the sound of rustling corn stalks in a late  summer breeze, all bring up images of nature’s colorful bounty.
when those flowers emerge in the spring from their winter slumber, it is truly magical.
facts for ground covers: helps control weeds and soil erosion
what can i  start indoors and plant outside when weather allows?
the little yellow flower (cyathia) in the middle of bract  should be tight and show a little color.
a botanist and first u.s. minister to mexico, joel r. poinsett,  sent some plants home in 1825, to south carolina as gifts for his friends at  the holiday season.
if your bulb is 2″, plant it around 6″ to  8″ deep.
have that professional florist wrap it up nice...
planted on the top of the bulb garden, it will remind you to give needed water in dry times and reward you with blossoms through the snow and winter.
ask  your local garden center guru for their recommendations and advise.
a perfect gift...given for the specific  holidays.
enjoy, the flower guy !
for  more info and insight check-out, growing plants from seed, at  www.ext.colostate.edu , fact sheet # 7.409, by dr. s.e. newman.
and most important, if the outside  temperature is below 40 degrees, the plant should be wrapped or sleeved before  transporting.
get more information atwww.hummingbirds.net or with my  friends at the colorado state university atwww.ext.coloradostate.edu  fact  sheet #5.504.
a high fashion series of plants that gives you a wow and now excitement in the garden.
tulip history --- the original tulip was a wild flower  growing in central asia.
a national known horticultural  family, the ecke's of encinitas, california were the true pioneers developing  potted and cut-flower cultivars of this modern day plant.
lafayette florist, gift shop & garden center  on facebook © 2012 lafayette florist & greenhouses |  600 south public rd | lafayette, co | (800) 665-0771 site by aina media
tip: plant a solid  block of color because in bloom, it is truly impressive.
there are new varieties introduced every year, along with new colors and textures.
not to mention the main goal — curb appeal to impress  your family, friends and neighbors.
it seems the blues/purples and yellows are most hardy and prolific.
they come in standard and mini types.
what’s your favorite perennial, and  where does it live and thrive in your garden?
we need to understand  the relationship between us and the important role that flowers, plants, bees,  birds, bats, insects and animals play in our well being and the health of our  world.
embrace and thank nature for the gift of reengergizing us each and every spring.
the huge bonus is, butterflies are attracted to the same plants, who could ask for more?
their huge heads blue, purples, whites and pinks.
in the future, when  you are thinking about what to arrive with, at any function...have some fun  with it, ask your favorite florist what they have or can get for you, give it  some thought and make them wonder...this is cool, where the heck did they find  this ???!!!
water well after  planting and during dry times when there is no moisture during the  winter months.
it’s one of those questions that many are embarrassed about, because they re-ask it every year.
on oct 19, 2011 posted by: brian in myblog tagged in: untagged it's time to plant fall bulbs for spring color!
planted  after the last frost in your geographical area, they will give you joy all  season while providing shades of every color of the rainbow.
on feb 3, 2012 posted by:  brian in myblog tagged in: untagged the poinsettia...the most beautiful, misunderstood holiday plant.
orange and  purple seem a close second and third.
our hort couture plants will begin arriving in mid to late april, see you at the greenhouse, the flower guy below is new, up and coming, horticultural brand called, "hort couture"
some plants will tolerate hot, dry sunny locations and others prefer moist shade.
you’ll be glad you planted them.
i  like to call them the “workhorses” of the flower garden.
you are in control of your  own food and herb source.
they have the highest metabolism of all animals and are always on the brink of  starvation.
perennials may serve as natural borders along fences or property lines and  require less irrigation and maintenance than turf grass.
there are a few other holiday season  plants that are truly noteworthy, the amazing christmas cactus, the bulbs of  amaryllis and fragrant paper white narcissus.
that’s my personal quote.
so, early this fall, plant these gems around your “palace” and smile to yourself for being so smart, knowing they’ll reward you next spring.
the busy and  sometimes hectic lives we live can be made more tolerable by just stopping and  smelling the roses.
they're fashionable, sophisticated and easy to grow.
what does the family want to harvest in the fall ?
we live on a golf course now in a patio home, so small scale gardening is a hot topic for me.
i've learned of micro climates and techniques to help these plant survive.
let me share with you a short history on tulip bulbs, and  tell you about site, soil prep, selection (the fun part), planting and growing.
no need to fertilizer while in bloom,  but later in march a balanced all-purpose plant food should be used monthly.
posted by: brian in myblog tagged in: untagged blooming plants... blooming plants...when you think about them, we  normally visualize a nice yellow mum in a hat basket with a cheerful bow and a  card that says a sentiment appropriate for the occasion.
during spring, remove flowers as they wither, but don’t be  afraid to cut some and enjoy them in vases in the home.
a side note, the use of pesticides around our tiny friends is not cool, be safe and natural.
but,  maybe, next time try a red banana in the middle, surrounded by hot lips salvia  with some blue ageratum with fiery orange celosia and sun loving coleus of  lime around the edge mixed with double purple calibrachoa.
prepare outdoor garden and plant when temperatures allow.
apply phosphorus fertilizer or bone meal at  the time of planting so it is available to the roots.
“every year of our lives, one thing is certain, the seasons will  change, the sun will rise and set, and the flowers will bloom.”
you are limited only by your imagination.
they’ll notice the buds on tree  branches start to swell, the buzzing of bees, and a red breasted robin with a  worm in its beak preparing for a new family.
water seedlings carefully, not too wet or too dry, this is where most  mistakes are made about a week prior to planting outdoors, gradually expose seedlings to  longer periods of direct sun and temps, reduce watering to harden off plants.
amend your soil with a well-decomposed compost  or sphagnum peat moss, this will improve your soil texture, plus, help  with aeration and drainage.
here are a few ideas to inspire you in choosing annuals: borders: lobelia, ageratum, sweet alyssum, dwarf marigolds, dianthus, moss rose portulaca, dusty miller mass plantings: geraniums, petunias, marigolds, celosia, cosmos, phlox, vinca and gazanias tall flowering plants: snapdragons, cleome, nicotiana, salvia, gomphrena and zinnias
not to mention the main goal — curb appeal to impress your family, friends and neighbors.
azalea hydrangea mums kalanchoe phalanopsis orchid fuchsia anthrium african violets on apr 15,  2011 posted by: brian in myblog tagged in:
kalanchoes with their bright colors of reds, oranges, yellows and pinks.
apply phosphorus fertilizer or bone meal at the time of planting so it is available to the roots.
the days of you coming home from work to a huge chore of back breaking weeding, dead heading, dragging the hose around and harvesting the fruits of our labor have been reduced to some nice planters on the deck.
avoid those that show evidence of mold or mechanical  damage.
adding some polymers in the soil, those little crystals that reduce watering and labor, will be beneficial to your plants.
choose a spot with good sunlight and drainage so bulbs will not  become waterlogged.
i've learned of micro climates and  techniques to help these plant survive.
bulbs should be planted to a depth of three to four times the height  of the bulbs.
now over 50, i've decided to scale it  down.
selecting bulbs and planting bulbs ---- pick the largest  ones because there is a direct correlation between the size of the bulb and  size of the flower.
what’s your favorite perennial, and where does it live and thrive in your garden?
bright  colors, texture of foliage, bloom and growth sizes, trailing or  upright, variegated, are just a few considerations.
maybe, a lime colored strawberry pot with dark blue lobelias trailing out, with purple gomphrenas as the focal point on top.
make sure you are paying attention to this.
the benefits of a well-designed perennial garden can  provide many years of beauty and enjoyment.
it’s a fun way to spend time with the family as you pick colors, plant for the season, and then watch them produce color until fall.
this “tulip crash” caused their government to introduce special trading restrictions on the flower.
there are new varieties introduced every year, along with  new colors and textures.
a perennial is like a perennial problem, it keeps coming back, time after time.”
the bonus of picking and  growing your own seed packets is, it's exactly what you want to grow, knowing  no chemicals or pesticides were used in the process.
remember those beautiful tulips, daffodils, hyacinths and crocus that were blooming in the spring?
these can be enjoyed on  a patio now and then replanted in your flower gardens and enjoyed year after  year...what a nice memory and value.
mixed pots are as unique as  the gardeners who plant them.
everyone wanted in on the action, but then, oversupply and lower demand  caused major bankruptcies.
bloomers have an exciting life of  their own, longevity, every imaginable color, sizes and textures, easy care,  fragrances and some can even be planted outside after enjoying their company  inside in the home.
the days of you coming home from work to a huge chore of back breaking  weeding, dead heading, dragging the hose around and harvesting the fruits of  our labor have been reduced to some nice planters on the deck.
if you're in a tropical climate, they then can be planted outside.
there is quite a buzz in our industry and we look forward to sharing it with you, our dedicated lafayette florist gardeners !!!
putting shade-loving double impatiens in full sun will just frustrate you and defeat your goal.
choosing where to plant bulbs ---- plant them in a highly visible bed where you, family and friends can see and enjoy them.
annuals are an inexpensive way to change the curb appeal of your home and stay updated with fashion and color trends.
the plant also played a part in midwinter celebrations.
don't get me wrong, it's nice, safe and traditional.
spring is when we celebrate regrowth and new  beginnings.
with water, soil  prep and a little fertilizer, it’s very rewarding.
they’re colorful and long lasting.
autumn joy sedums, offers homeowners constant color  throughout the season with less maintenance, less water, and often with fewer  pest problems.
i personally am guilty and love it.
re-flowering is a little challenging, but a fun project to try.
in early 1637, there was a complete ‘tulipmania” in the netherlands, where many rare bulbs would cost more than the average cost of a house at the time.
untagged get in touch with your inner farmer...starting seeds indoors confucius said, "if you think in terms of a year, plant a seed ; if in  terms of ten years, plant a tree ; if in terms of a hundred years, teach the  people.
gardeners and even non-gardeners notice the changes of our seasons, when  the green patches of lawn peek out from a snow covered yard and the faces of  pansies tilt upwards toward the sun on a cold late winter day.
bring branches of apple  blossoms and forsythia indoors and let them bloom.
our "gardening area" has diminished to a deck, porch or small  patio.
the spring rain cleanses the winter’s deposits from the fronds of juniper.
have a wonderful gardening season, the flower guy
nice red geraniums, a spike in the middle, a few yellow marigolds and petunias and some trailing vinca vine in a brown pot is nice.
they might notice the life giving  moisture soaking into the ground, rejuvenating shrubs and rose bushes, slowly  warming them out of their long winters nap.
don't get nervous, you don't have to mix this, it's already in  bags at the greenhouse ready to go, some with a  fertilizer already mixed  in.
it's your deck, your  the one that will be sitting back and relaxing with your margarita gazing on  them and saying, "very nice, cool flowers and oh, by the way, i designed  and planted them !"
they incorporated the plant into nativity  processions.
great pictures of the mature plant, detailed growing  information, facts and what to expect.
perennials they'll dig...bee balm, cannas, cardinal flower,coneflower, columbine (my state flower), coral bells, four o'clocks, foxglove, agastache,lupine, penstemon and the yucca.
think about a nice big red, pink or purple geranium, a low cost alternative,  that will last all summer.
enjoy a great summer of color in the flower garden.
(maybe someday, some young writer will quote me.
some plants will tolerate hot, dry sunny locations and others prefer moist  shade.
picking the right flowers for the right location is vital.
i'd like to introduce a new, up and coming, horticultural brand called,  "hort couture".
planted on the top of the bulb garden, it will remind you to  give needed water in dry times and reward you with blossoms through the snow  and winter.
how flowers and plants and their  relationships with us and animals affect the world around us.
the spring rain cleanses the  winter’s deposits from the fronds of juniper.
we live on a golf course now in a patio home, so  small scale gardening is a hot topic for me.
remember, we all share this big blue marble with some amazing flowers... and the animals who love them !!!
many colors, shapes and sizes are available in  fall.
planting zinnias in shade will not work.
no doubt, spring is my favorite time of year.
check the blooming times on the bulb package; some will say, very early,  early, mid or late.
today, that’s all in the past, the popularity of the tulip is ever present.
herbs of basil and eight new varieties of tomatoes.
plant pansies, too a great addition to your bulb beds are pansies.
a perennial is like a perennial problem, it  keeps coming back, time after time.”
now, that we got that settled, let me share with you, some history,  fun facts, care and handling.
during the 17th century, franciscan priests near taxco observed the plant  blooming during the christmas season.
orchids are amazing with their tropical look and easier to  grow than you think.
the early growers and traders made huge amounts of money.
the overcast gray skies and gloomy frozen landscape of the  midwest can be depressing, and for some, the only cure is spring.
gardening shouldn't be rocket science  and it shouldn't be hard or difficult, what i'd like it to be, for  everyone is a kick, fun and funky with alot of individual style.
they're fashionable, sophisticated  and easy to grow.
promise of spring lady bird johnson said, “where flowers bloom, so does  hope.”
" it is quite rewarding to start your seeds indoors and a  great feeling of accomplishment.
during my 30 years in the garden center business, there is one question  that is asked more than all others: “what’s the difference between  an annual and a perennial?”
protect plants from cold drafts or excessive heat.
during certain  times of the year, you'll find bougainvilleas and mandevillias available as  bloomers.
the choice is yours !
tips for planting perennials: facts for ground covers: when planting ground covers, follow the same tips as perennials.
we all had forefathers that  were working the earth to grow crops to feed and cloth their families.
a nice mixture of canadian sphagnum peat moss, compost, vermiculite, perilite, charcoal and a wetting agent is recommended.
everyone wanted in on the action, but then, oversupply and lower demand caused major bankruptcies.
visit a tulip  festival.
have fun, experiment with new varieties and  plants you've never used.
a true status symbol planted in palace gardens.
here is the response  i give to help my customers remember: “an annual is like annual taxes,  you have to do them every year.
a unique collection of annuals, tropical's,  succulents, grasses, herbs and vegetables.
from the dwarf zinnias to hedge-type marigolds, size and shape is up to you.
what a great opportunity to educated and enjoy the rewards.
our friend, the hummingbird, can fly forward, hover and then fly backwards  and is the only bird that can.
have a wonderful gardening season, the flower guy on may  17, 2011
the early growers and traders made huge amounts of  money.
so, plan your "hummer garden" carefully with some plants i'll suggest.