i’d advise  others to stay away.
i hope your weeks went well.
get every new post delivered to your inbox.
it happens with relative regularity.
that does not make you a good person!!!
it’s a step in the right direction.
how can she claim to be a romantic at heart yet have so much of  her life revolve around eating innocent creatures?
stir in avocado and seeds/nuts just before serving.
as tyler durden says, you  don’t own your stuff.
it’s like a  zombie videogame.
spend your long weekend with loved ones, whether related by blood or by choice.
sometimes though, i have a much more negative experience.
cover and bake for 30 minutes.
for once i’m actually writing this a couple of days ahead of time, because it is american thanksgiving this weekend, and i’m going to be one busy lady.
the result: a wonderful warm, slightly crunchy, slighty bready, tinged with rosemary crust that perfectly holds its own to however many or few toppings you want.
drain in colander and rinse immediately under cold water to cool.
you are getting this week’s friday fun a day early because tomorrow’s my birthday, and i took the day off work and will be staying far away from the computer all day!
tags: 24, 4th of july, birthday ,bookstore, bubble tea, camera, farmer's market, fireworks, friday fun, happy  birthday to me, just for fun, life, us history, vegetarian meatfree recipe: sweet curry chickpea casserole june 9, 2010  wolfshowl leave a comment the result: a slightly spicy but simultaneously sweet  curry that fills and warms your belly.
a couple of the omni girls were discussing ordering a pizza, when one of them asked if we liked steak, to which the other one responded, “oh they’re both vegetarian.”
i’m *coughs* a unique one, eh?categories:friday fun!
there will probably not be anything particularly traditional about our thanksgiving, since i’m a vegetarian, and there’s only two of us.
they both struggle to get away.
i respect your right to your food choices.
if you want thin crust, either roll it out super thin and use a  large pizza pan or divide it into two and make two regular-sized pizzas.
since  i’m being an epically boring vegetarian librarian alternating between  reading a shit-ton, weight lifting and doing chin-ups at the gym, and watching  mini-marathons of teen mom 2 (for the schadenfreude aspect), i think today  i’ll give you all a glance at some books on my wishlist.
july 1, 2010 wolfshowl 8  comments hello my lovely readers!
other than that, my week has been quite normal.
be sure to serve with rice and maybe naan.
if you will be baking in the oven, preheat oven to 375 degrees.
*shuffles feet* anywho.
i understand money is tight, trust me, i do, but all you have  to do is youtube some videos of the types of mobs that happen to see how  disgusting this obsession with stuff can be.
can’t wait to see what new authors and  stories i’ll discover through this book.
unfortunately, no matter how many times you present the evidence that evolution is real, some people still choose to teach their children that god made woman out of adam’s rib.
if it’s something that takes longer to cook, like broccoli, just quickly boil it for a couple of minutes to prep before slicing it up and putting it on the pizza.
add in olive oil, rosemary, whole wheat flour, and white flour.
happy weekend all!categories: friday fun!
top with whatever toppings you want.
i think it’s kind of a silly thing to be concerned about, but again it’ s not hypocritical.
poor elizabeth, living in paris with a man who loves her, cooking food for him every day, giving tours of the louvre.
this comes across to me as the stitch n bitch for  canning.
i also hung  out with one of my friends and watched trashy horror movies.
i will probably not be able to afford them anytime soon or justify buying them since i currently have a pile of 79 physical books to read in my tiny apartment.
i mean, one of my majors in uni was us history.
i have to say, ever since i turned 20, i just feel like i’m  improving with age.
it all comes down to what you put on it and what  type of crust you make.
i have to say, ever since i turned 20, i just feel like i’m improving with age.
(i’m being boring lately
preheat oven to 375 degrees.
meat is for pussies by john joseph
it also means i try to avoid being “militant” about anything and just hope that with the evidence i calmly present, people will change their minds.
whereas the tova gallagher series is a just for fun romance novella lite, zombies is all about the feminist scifi and horror writer inside me.
last weekend i went to a collegiate hockey game with a friend.
if you’re doing it by hand, it’s when the dough is no longer watery but still kind of sticky.
you do need to cut up the avocado and add it just before serving to prevent the avocado from browning, however.
cut corn kernels from the cob.
join 628 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
it was crazy fun and full of adorable 10 year old boys in bruins jerseys rooting for bc.
sprinkle baking soda and salt over the top of this and mix in.
i don’t agree with the choice, but it’s not hypocritical.
a diet choice that is not particularly popular in the united states but is at least gaining recognition in the general public.
flip it a few times to spread out the flour.
the recipe: makes 4 servings 1 can or 2 1/2 to 3 cups cooked chickpeas 1 13.5 oz can light coconut milk (double this if you’re leaving it in a crockpot all day)
so here’s some  wishlist highlights) march 11, 2011 wolfshowl 8 comments hello my lovely readers!
place the ear of corn in and cook until a fork can easily stick into the kernels, approximately 7 to 10 minutes.
pretty much any nut you have on-hand)
hopefully i’ll have more real life stories for you next week.
also i’m just noticing that this is an interesting mix of zombies, sex, feminism, and veg*ism.
i was out at a pub with four other gals, one of whom is vegetarian like me.
this memoir tells about her falling in love and the process of becoming an expat in france through the lens of food.
who  doesn’t enjoy a good real life love story?
even carrots and potatoes can go on the pizza.
overall, the scenes of real paris life are interesting and enjoyable, but the frequent scenes featuring bloody meat and elizabeth’s pity party really detract from the book.
add the yeast and the sugar.
i could not identify with elizabeth at all in these frequent  sections.
i do want to take a moment to ask you all to seriously consider avoiding  the crass consumerism that is black friday sales this weekend if at all  possible.
also  i’m just noticing that this is an interesting mix of zombies, sex,  feminism, and veg*ism.
allow the yeast to work for about a minute.
i know some vegetarians can be militant, but if the vegetarian you’re around right that instant isn’t being militant and all that happened is she stated she’s vegetarian, just nod and say “ok,” and leave it at that.
also, don’t be afraid  to put beans on your pizza for extra protein!
it was crazy  fun and full of adorable 10 year old boys in bruins jerseys rooting for  bc.
we will, however, definitely be drinking beer and watching the game.
i’d suggest elizabeth try reading some  memoirs of true struggles such asthe glass castle and get back to us.
i’ve put everything from chickpeas to black beans on mine.
i’ve put everything  from chickpeas to black beans on mine.
drain and set aside to cool.
i choose to be this way, because i’m a libertarian, and i believe that what a person eats is her choice, even if i disagree with it and wish she wouldn’t eat that way.
overall, the scenes of real paris life are interesting and enjoyable, but  the frequent scenes featuring bloody meat and elizabeth’s pity party  really detract from the book.
i greatly appreciate this.
the crust is the core of the pizza, so i present to you–the perfect pizza crust.
this isn’t how she imagined her life would work  out.
it works for thin or thick crust.
it’s their choice, and i don’t want diet differences to come between me and my friendships.
would you be able to stomach your own food?
i hope the recipes are creative and not just like “pasta,  veggies, rice, have fun.”
even further fact: the nearest grocery store to me is  crazy cheap and mainstream
source: tweaked from recipe sent to me by @infojennifer who in turn tweaked it from page 106 of dreena burton’svive le vegancategories:causes, meatfree recipe, vegetarianism tags: dreena burton, meatfree recipe, meatless monday, sweet curry chickpea casserole, vegan, vegetarian, vive le vegan people tend to not realize pizza’s versatility.
roll to your desired size.
this is marketed as a going vegan  book for men written by a vegan male martial arts fighter.
in a medium-sized bowl, beat egg, then add vanilla and sugar and mix to combine.
(ok, some of them have yet to make it onto my librarything wishlist, but they’re on my wishlist in my head, ok?!)
i wholeheartedly believe this is the right choice, and it’s one i want more people to make.
if you actually cared about the animals, you wouldn’t eat them.
it’s  supposed to blow the myth of being a male vegan equating being weak and/or not  masculine out of the water.
of course one of my favorite veg restaurants will also be visited.
why  am i into canning you ask?  hey.
what will you be reading?
first, as a vegetarian, i really didn’t appreciate the incredibly  long and frequent sections describing eating meat, cooking meat, how awesome  meat is, etc…  where elizabeth describes her future husband,  gwendal, telling her “i love you” for the first time over a piece  of bloody meat, i was thoroughly distracted by the poor, dead, bleeding  animal.
how can she claim to be a romantic at heart yet have so much of her life revolve around eating innocent creatures?
if you want thin crust, either roll it out super thin and use a large pizza pan or divide it into two and make two regular-sized pizzas.
it’s something that’s hard to come by when you live in a different state from your parent.
you are not concerned about the well-being of the animals.
two things held me back from really  enjoying the book though.
ok, that was a ridiculously excited post, but i think that’s warranted if only for the fact that i have a four day weekend.
by some awesomeness two of my best gal pals and my boyfriend also have tomorrow off, so i’ll be spending the day with them, getting bubble tea, going to a farmer’s market, and probably hitting up a bookstore too.
since i’m being an epically boring vegetarian librarian alternating between reading a shit-ton, weight lifting and doing chin-ups at the gym, and watching mini-marathons of teen mom 2 (for the schadenfreude aspect), i think today i’ll give you all a glance at some books on my wishlist.
as a libertarian, i believe that adults should be able to do whatever they want to do as long as it doesn’t harm other living creatures.
i  mean, one of my majors in uni was us history.
i wound up skimming a lot.
from telling us about how lucky she is to be living this life in paris, elizabeth suddenly changes into a bit of a pity party.
flour your rolling pin.
you should respect mine.
the result: this recipe yields 12 regular-sized delicious, low-fat, low-calorie muffins chock full of nutty protein.
how long depends on how many toppings you put on/what your oven is like/what mood the dough is in.
the recipe: makes 4 servings 1 can or 2 1/2 to 3 cups cooked chickpeas 1 13.5 oz can light  coconut milk (double this if you’re leaving it in a crockpot all day)
maybe you’re worried that suddenly the us will become predominantly vegetarian instead of omnivore.
all i know is, you’re not being respectful of other human beings when you act this way.
stir in the grated zucchini, then the butter.
they may get a confused look on their face, but that’s generally about it.
just don’t spend your precious hours off obsessed with stuff.
i’ve been wondering what i can do to support this, so i’ve decided to periodically blog meatfree recipes that i’ve made at least once and have enjoyed.
and this sort of thing isn’t a random occurrence.
if you will be using a slow cooker, combine all ingredients in the  crockpot.
(happy thanksgiving!) november 23, 2011 wolfshowl 12  comments hello my lovely readers!
first, as a vegetarian, i really didn’t appreciate the incredibly long and frequent sections describing eating meat, cooking meat, how awesome meat is, etc… where elizabeth describes her future husband, gwendal, telling her “i love you” for the first time over a piece of bloody meat, i was thoroughly distracted by the poor, dead, bleeding animal.
(ok, some  of them have yet to make it onto my librarything wishlist, but they’re on  my wishlist in my head, ok?!)
it also was surprisingly warm for a building housing an ice skating rink.
first up, zucchini muffins!
if you are a meat eater yourself and a foodie, you’ll probably enjoy this memoir anyway.
the recipe: 1 cup warm water 1 packet yeast 1 tablespoon sugar 1 tablespoon dried rosemary 2 tablespoons olive oil pinch of sea salt 1 1/8 cup whole wheat flour 1 1/8 cup white flour more flour for rolling out the dough put the water in a large bowl.
cook for 15 to 25 minutes.
myself and the other veg turned down pizza, getting fries instead, and the omnis got a steak and potato pizza.
because of the fact that my birthday falls on a holiday weekend  i tend to get my presents early or late or get informed of what i will be  getting.
it took much experimenting with many pizza crust recipes and a bit of  tweaking on the one i finally found that was close to what i wanted.
the secret feminist cabal: a cultural history of science fiction feminisms  by helen merrick i’m just obsessed with feminist scifi and any study  of or collection of feminist scifi i’ve read in the past has been  motherfucking awesome.
if you were, you wouldn’t ask for them to die so you can enjoy a hamburger when you live in a nation with plenty of other ways to healthily feed yourself.
i’ve also been told that i’m slowly starving myself to death.
you can put pretty much any veggie on  top of pizza.
however, i have a serious problem with you people who purport to support organic “humane” animal farming out of a concern for the well-being of the animals and not yourself..
categories: friday fun!
my dad is coming down from  vermont to spend a few days with me in my lovely city of boston.
ok, so i could own this  already, but i own the previous books in the sookie stackhouse series in mass  market paperback, and the series must match.
anyway, for the most part my lack of militance is met with a similar lack of confrontation in return.
the recipe: 1 egg 2/3 cup sugar 1 1/2 cups grated zucchini (squeezed to remove excess liquid then stuffed into measuring cup) 1/3 cup melted butter 1 1/4 tsp baking soda pinch of salt 3/4 cup white flour 3/4 cup whole wheat flour 1 tsp cinnamon 1/4 tsp nutmeg 1 cup chopped almonds (you can use walnuts or pecans,
aside from having finally done my taxes and seeing i get moneys back for having been in graduate school last year and also being poor.
spread out flour on a surface.
i’ve also been taunted that i look ghostly or gaunt and clearly i must be vitamin deficient.
one thing that i cannot stand and won’t stay quiet about, though, is hypocrisy, and it’s something i’ve been seeing cropping up more and more in the green movement.
also,  tonight i’ll be going out to dinner with my third best gal pal (there are  three of them), so the celebration is nicely spread out.
your stuff owns you.
stir through, cover, and bake for another 30-40 minutes, until the veggies are tender.
just grate them up and put them on right after the  sauce.
i suddenly feel totally justified in getting my xbox kinect.
i’ve had omnis regale me with the sheer animalistic pleasure they feel in ripping meat apart with their teeth.
it will be ready in around 5 hours.
the  crust is the core of the pizza, so i present to you–the perfect pizza  crust.
allow to rise for 30 to 45 minutes.
be sure to serve with rice and  maybe naan.
in a large, deep casserole dish, combine all the ingredients and stir until well-combined.
the most i do unprovoked is to say that i’m a vegetarian and sometimes further explain what my dietary restrictions are if the person doesn’t know.
i can’t wait to see what he does to zombies.
take any animal from an organic farm and compare it being slaughtered to one being slaughtered at a factory farm.
it makes you a hypocrite.
by max brallier i was  completely obsessed with choose your own adventure (cya) stories when i was a  kid, even the craptastic fundy christian ones my parental units made me  read.
it took much experimenting with many pizza crust recipes and a bit of tweaking on the one i finally found that was close to what i wanted.
however, i respect whatever choice people make, because what you eat is your own business.
i ate a baby cow earlier today, hahahaha.”
also, tonight i’ll be going out to dinner with my third best gal pal (there are three of them), so the celebration is nicely spread out.
there’s red pizza (using marinara for sauce) white pizza (using olive oil and garlic for sauce) and pesto pizza (obviously using pesto for sauce).
by some awesomeness two of my best gal pals and my boyfriend also have  tomorrow off, so i’ll be spending the day with them, getting bubble tea,  going to a farmer’s market, and probably hitting up a bookstore  too.
this isn’t how she imagined her life would work out.
tags: book, books, boston, donna klein, friday fun,  highlights, i'm done tagging now, john joseph, meat is for pussies, men, reading ,supermarket vegan, vegan, vegetarian, wishlist, zombies book review: lunch in paris: a love story, with recipes by  elizabeth bard december 28, 2010 wolfshowl leave a comment summary: elizabeth has always been drawn to museums  and the old world, so when she’s doing her graduate work in london and  meets gwendal, a frenchman, she jumps right into dating him.
myself and the other veg nodded to which the questioner responded, “hahahaha,
i’m looking forward to the quality time.
if you are a meat eater yourself and a  foodie, you’ll probably enjoy this memoir anyway.
we are traditional americans in that regard.
2 tbs olive oil avocado, finely diced bring a pot of water to boil.
although i will offer sources, i generally tweak recipes a wee bit when i make them, so if you would like to see the original recipe, definitely check out the source.
anyway, i’m very intrigued by the concept of this  book.
spray muffin pan or individual muffin cups with non-stick spray or vegetable oil, then divide batter evenly among cups to make 12 muffins.
ranting to us about how much you love to eat meat reeks either of immaturity or insecurity.
that could be the vermonter in me talking though.
stir in sweet potatoes and oil.
i use a hand-held electric dough hook, but it works by hand or with a real electric mixer too.
i could not identify with elizabeth at all in these frequent sections.
when it’s home-made, you can actually make sure it is quite healthy, including being low-fat and low-calorie.
plus, i freaking love the 4th of july.
once he heads back for home i’ll be doing the laundry, getting in some quality gym time, and finally getting started on editing zombies.
you’re advocating to give an animal a paradise type of environment and then rip them out of it to kill them.
you can put pretty much any veggie on top of pizza.
i’m not the proselytizing type of vegetarian.
(i do take the time to order  vital wheat gluten and nutritional yeast in bulk from amazon though.
it all comes down to what you put on it and what type of crust you make.
i have no problem with omnivores who say they enjoy being at the top of the food chain, that we’re naturally predators so we may as well enjoy it, etc… they’ve decided what matters to them while acknowledging that this choice causes pain.
3 out of 5 stars source: amazon buy it categories: book, genre, memoir, nonfiction ,review tags: book, book, elizabeth bard, expat, food, foodie, gwendal, london,  lunch in paris, lunch in paris a love story with recipes, memoir, nonfiction,  paris, review, vegetarian friday fun! (on thursday!)
*shuffles feet*   anywho.
i’m also excited for him to see me looking far healthier than the last time he was here, which was almost a year ago!
you guys all know that i’m a vegetarian.
gradually she falls for not just gwendal, but paris in general, especially the food.
did i mention the fireworks?
granted, i know readers who enjoy eating meat themselves won’t be bothered by these passages, but i am fairly certain they’ll be irritated by the change of tone of voice partway through the narrative.
who doesn’t enjoy a good real life love story?
also, don’t be afraid to put beans on your pizza for extra protein!
that  shit is awesome).
i’d suggest elizabeth try reading some memoirs of true struggles such asthe glass castle and get back to us.
plop the dough on the surface.
granted, i know readers who enjoy eating meat themselves won’t be  bothered by these passages, but i am fairly certain they’ll be irritated  by the change of tone of voice partway through the narrative.
hello my lovely readers!
for once i’m actually writing this a  couple of days ahead of time, because it is american thanksgiving this weekend,  and i’m going to be one busy lady.
there’s your glimpse at my wishlist!
poor elizabeth, living in  paris with a man who loves her, cooking food for him every day, giving tours of  the louvre.
well, you know what?
review: this memoir starts out strong.
also, i can’t suddenly  switch to ebooks for the series at this point in the game, but i would if i  could.
the super-thin slices couples with the sauce makes them cook by  the time you take the pizza out of the oven.
i’m very intrigued by canning but am put-off by how  old-fashioned most of the recipes and methods in the cookbooks are.
paris sounds incredibly romantic and appealing to anyone who enjoys open food markets, museums, and the big city charm of small spaces.
*waves* categories: friday fun!
3 medium cloves garlic, minced 1 1/2 tablespoon  freshly grated gingeror 1 1/2 teaspoon powdered ginger 1  1/2 tablespoon mild red curry paste 2 teaspoon mustard seed or 1/2 teaspoon ground mustard or 1/2 teaspoon mustard  (the condiment) 1 teaspoon cumin seeds or 1/2 teaspoon  ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon turmeric 1/8  teaspoon allspice
i’ve been taunted by small time farmers who tell me all about how they’re going to slaughter the chickens that day.
i’d advise others to stay away.
they make a great breakfast or snack on the go, and are yummy warm or cold.
my dad is coming down from vermont to spend a few days with me in my lovely city of boston.
categories: causes, vegetarianism, wolf bite wednesday tags: animal rights, humane farming, hypocrisy, libertarian, omnivores, organic farming, vegetairanism, vegetarian, wolf bite wednesday http://www.flickr.com/photos/66164549@n00/ / cc by-sa 2.0 i’ve been a vegetarian for three years.
of course one of my favorite veg restaurants will also be  visited.
i know, you guys do not care this much about my birthday, but i get four  days off for it and am excited!!
i understand money is tight, trust me, i do, but all you have to do is youtube some videos of the types of mobs that happen to see how disgusting this obsession with stuff can be.
once you have the spices in stock, it’s also quite  cheap!
in a sense, it’s more humane for the factory farm to slaughter their animals, because they are in pain and suffering constantly.
there will probably not be anything particularly traditional about our  thanksgiving, since i’m a vegetarian, and there’s only two of  us.
put the dough in an oiled bowl in a warm location.
you’re claiming that you want the animals to be happy?
however, it is just not cool to gleefully wave in a known vegetarian’s face that you’re eating an animal.
i know, you guys do not care this much about my birthday, but i get four days off for it and am excited!!
seriously, it grosses me out, and normally i only am able to maintain my appetite when eating with omnis by just making myself “forget” that they’re eating meat.
vegetarians get it that you like to eat meat.
turmeric 3/4 teaspoon sea salt 1/8 teaspoon allspice
categories: causes, vegetarianism tags: baby animal, how to, libertarian, meat, militant, offensive, omnivore, vegetarian enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
there’s red pizza (using marinara for  sauce) white pizza (using olive oil and garlic for sauce) and pesto pizza  (obviously using pesto for sauce).
combine apple, onion, cilantro, corn, and lime juice in a large bowl.
it works for thin or thick  crust.
it tastes better when it’s allowed to sit a while in the fridge.
it’s a whole bunch of awesomeness.
for thicker crust, just roll it out to a regular pizza-size.
it’s a different kind of excitement.
in a smaller bowl, combine white whole wheat flour, cinnamon and nutmeg.
i’m also excited for him to see me looking far healthier  than the last time he was here, which was almost a year ago!
my wonderful boyfriend gave me a brand-new camera last weekend, something i’ve been wanting but unable to afford for forever.
3/4 cup red onion, chopped 1 1/2 cups celery, chopped 1 to 1 1/2  cups sweet potatoes, peeled and chopped (approximately 1 medium-sized sweet  potato) 1 to 1 1/2 cups granny smith apple, chopped (approximately 1  medium-sized apple)
i’m aiming for a release date toward the end of january and am excited about this book.
we will, however, definitely be drinking beer and watching the  game.
what will you be doing  for the 4th?
3 medium cloves garlic, minced 1 1/2 tablespoon freshly grated gingeror 1 1/2 teaspoon powdered ginger 1 1/2 tablespoon mild red curry paste 2 teaspoon mustard seed or 1/2 teaspoon ground mustard or 1/2 teaspoon mustard (the condiment) 1 teaspoon cumin seeds or 1/2 teaspoon ground cumin 1/2 teaspoon
from  telling us about how lucky she is to be living this life in paris, elizabeth  suddenly changes into a bit of a pity party.
*waves*categories: friday fun!
only with a lot more work than it takes for wine to get better with age, because let’s face it, they just stick that shit in a cellar somewhere and abandon it, whereas i work damn hard to get better.
stir dry ingredients into the zucchini mixture, then fold in chopped almonds .
even carrots and potatoes can go on  the pizza.
it’s something  that’s hard to come by when you live in a different state from your  parent.
handling the undead by john ajvide lindqvist besides having the most  difficult to spell name of any author on this list, lindqvist also wrote let  the right one in, which i think is a wonderful twist on/addition to vampire  lore.
if you’re using a dough hook, the dough is ready when it starts to climb up the hook.
you are getting this week’s friday fun  a day early because tomorrow’s my birthday, and i took the day off work  and will be staying far away from the computer all day!
it is hard enough for me to smell and see meat.
since it’s a perpetual problem that  veg*nism has a hard time appealing to the men of humanity, i’m very  curious to check this out.
ya’ll know how into local  food and preparing for the zombie apocalypse i am.
my dad contributed money so i could get my a/c unit, and my brother informed me he’ll be giving me homemade goat cheese he made himself from his own goats.
if you want to leave it all day, double the amount of coconut milk to 2 cans or put in one can and fill the can with water and add that to the crockpot as well.
can you survive the zombie apocalypse?
if you will be using a slow cooker, combine all ingredients in the crockpot.
after it arrived the questioner again started gleefully shoving in our faces the fact that she was eating an animal, had earlier that day, and would continue to, repeatedly mentioning baby animals in particular.
paris sounds incredibly  romantic and appealing to anyone who enjoys open food markets, museums, and the  big city charm of small spaces.
happy weekends, everyone!
the result: a wonderful warm, slightly crunchy,  slighty bready, tinged with rosemary crust that perfectly holds its own to  however many or few toppings you want.
even though this pissed me off, i ignored it.
join 628 other followers error: please make sure the twitter account is public.
once you have the spices in stock, it’s also quite cheap!
in fact, i’m pleased that for the most part, people are genuinely nice about it and express concern in the restaurant or in their house that what i eat isn’t against my morals.
i also hung out with one of my friends and watched trashy horror movies.
spend your long weekend with  loved ones, whether related by blood or by choice.
bake for 25-30 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean.5 out of 5 stars
my dad contributed money so i could get my a/c unit, and my brother  informed me he’ll be giving me homemade goat cheese he made himself from  his own goats.
if it’s something that takes longer to cook, like  broccoli, just quickly boil it for a couple of minutes to prep before slicing  it up and putting it on the pizza.
i will probably not be able to afford them  anytime soon or justify buying them since i currently have a pile of 79  physical books to read in my tiny apartment.
aside  from having finally done my taxes and seeing i get moneys back for having been  in graduate school last year and also being poor.
so it’s not always easy for me to find obscure  ingredients often listed in vegan recipes.
the recipe: approximately 4 servings 1 ear of corn (approximately 1/4 of a cup) 1lb sweet potatoes peeled and cut into 1/2 inch cubes 1/4 cup unsalted, hulled pumpkin seeds or pepitas (you can toast them or not, whatever floats your boat)or chopped walnuts 1 medium apple (any variety) 1/2 cup onion, finely chopped 1/4 cup chopped cilantro (it’ll be fine without it if you don’t have some handy) 1/4 cup lime juice (approximately 2 limes)
it really is that simple.
this means that in what society sees as gray areas, i go with whatever side allows for more choice.
in a large, deep casserole dish, combine all the ingredients and stir until  well-combined.
source: tweaked from recipe sent to me by @infojennifer  who in turn tweaked it from page 106 of dreena burton’svive
i do want to take a moment to ask you all to seriously consider avoiding the crass consumerism that is black friday sales this weekend if at all possible.
the loving dead by amelia beamer all you need to know about this book  is that the zombie plague is an std in it.
this is a cya set in the zombie apocalypse.
what will you be doing for the 4th?
le vegan categories:causes, meatfree recipe, vegetarianism tags: dreena burton, meatfree  recipe, meatless monday, sweet curry chickpea casserole, vegan, vegetarian,  vive le vegan meatfree recipe: perfect pizza crust june 3, 2010 wolfshowl 2  comments people tend to not realize pizza’s versatility.
even if a person goes from eating meat at two meals a day to eating meat at one meal a day, that’s fewer animals being killed for food a year.
huh.  i’m *coughs* a unique one, eh? categories:friday fun!
tags: 24, 4th of july, birthday ,bookstore, bubble tea, camera, farmer's market, fireworks, friday fun, happy birthday to me, just for fun, life, us history, vegetarian the result: a slightly spicy but simultaneously sweet curry that fills and warms your belly.
tags: book, books, boston, donna klein, friday fun, highlights, i'm done tagging now, john joseph, meat is for pussies, men, reading ,supermarket vegan, vegan, vegetarian, wishlist, zombies summary: elizabeth has always been drawn to museums and the old world, so when she’s doing her graduate work in london and meets gwendal, a frenchman, she jumps right into dating him.
4 out of 5 stars source: tweaked recipe from vegetarian timescategories:causes, meatfree recipe, vegetarianism tags: meatfree, meatfree recipe, meatless, meatless monday, recipe, sweet potato salad with apple and avocado, vegan, vegetarian, vegetarian times introduction: i am very supportive of the meatless mondays movement, which is indicative of the movement in general to get americans to eat less meat.
canning for a new generation: bold, fresh flavors for the modern pantry by  liana krissoff
once he heads back for home i’ll be doing the laundry, getting in  some quality gym time, and finally getting started on editing zombies.
only with a lot more work than it takes  for wine to get better with age, because let’s face it, they just stick  that shit in a cellar somewhere and abandon it, whereas i work damn hard to get  better.
when it’s  home-made, you can actually make sure it is quite healthy, including being  low-fat and low-calorie.
tags: black friday, boston,  buy nothing day, family, friday fun, holiday, thanksgiving, tova gallagher,  vegetarian, writing, zombies friday fun!
whereas the tova gallagher series is a just for fun  romance novella lite, zombies is all about the feminist scifi and horror writer  inside me.
just don’t spend your  precious hours off obsessed with stuff.
if  you want to leave it all day, double the amount of coconut milk to 2 cans or  put in one can and fill the can with water and add that to the crockpot as well.
i use my microwave, personally.
45 minutes is better, but if you’re pressed for time, 30 minutes is ok.
an example of such a situation happened last night.
last  weekend i went to a collegiate hockey game with a friend.
i also have no problem with people who want organic animal farming due to a concern about chemicals in meat.
because of the fact that my birthday falls on a holiday weekend i tend to get my presents early or late or get informed of what i will be getting.
imagine if you were eating dinner out with a cannibal who started to gleefully tell you how they’d just eaten a baby’s brains that morning.
3/4 cup red onion, chopped 1 1/2 cups celery, chopped 1 to 1 1/2 cups sweet potatoes, peeled and chopped (approximately 1 medium-sized sweet potato) 1 to 1 1/2 cups granny smith apple, chopped (approximately 1 medium-sized apple)
tags: black friday, boston, buy nothing day, family, friday fun, holiday, thanksgiving, tova gallagher, vegetarian, writing, zombies hello my lovely readers!
as tyler durden says, you don’t own your stuff.
i don’t confront people about it unless they bring it up (or they willingly read my blog, hah).
dead in the family by charlaine harris
although i believe in vegetarianism, i whole-heartedly support any movement in that direction.
it also was surprisingly warm for a building housing an ice skating  rink.
a more  serious one.
i’m aiming for a release date toward the end of january and am excited  about this book.
so i keep my mouth shut about all the reasons to be vegetarian unless they ask me, which happens a surprising amount.
supermarket vegan: 225 meat-free, egg-free, dairy-free recipes for real  people in the real world by donna klein
would you be comfortable or happy at all?
my wonderful boyfriend gave me a brand-new camera last weekend,  something i’ve been wanting but unable to afford for forever.
either you enjoy an easy way to make someone uncomfortable in a social situation or our choice makes you feel insecure for whatever reason.
maybe you really do feel guilty for eating meat so you lash out.
just grate them up and put them on right after the sauce.
place sweet potatoes in a sauce pan, cover with water, bring to a boil and boil until tender, about 3 minutes.
3 out of 5 stars source: amazon buy it hello my lovely readers!
if you didn’t want to eat meat, you wouldn’t.
i suddenly  feel totally justified in getting my xbox kinect.
two things held me back from really enjoying the book though.
gradually  she falls for not just gwendal, but paris in general, especially the  food.
ok, that was a ridiculously excited post, but i think that’s  warranted if only for the fact that i have a four day weekend.
this memoir tells about her falling in love and the process of  becoming an expat in france through the lens of food.
further fact: i  don’t have a car.
neither of them wants to die.
the super-thin slices couples with the sauce makes them cook by the time you take the pizza out of the oven.
i wound up skimming a  lot.
stir through, cover,  and bake for another 30-40 minutes, until the veggies are tender.
source: tweaked recipe from emeril lagassecategories: causes, meatfree recipe, vegetarianism tags: cook, cooking, emeril lagasse, meatfree recipe, meatless, meatless monday, pizza, rosemary, savory, vegetarian the result: a slightly tangy, genuinely refreshing, cold, cooked veg salad that is full of nutrients and very filling!
perfect food to make ahead of time to eat later.