edit my wishlist the information you submit will be used solely by go ahead tours.
rome is full of remnants of the past - from the ruins to the art to the ancient cathedrals and town squares – and the shopping is no different, with a vast accumulation of antiques awaiting your perusal.
reading - traveler tips - tour reviews - questions & answers - london, paris & rome - the best of england, scotland & ireland - eastern europe: jewish heritage tour london, paris & rome 11 days from $2,659* usd now includes all government taxes & fees!
changes or cancellations  will result in a fee of up to the total tour price.
are you sure you want to save this trip to your wishlist?
tour packages by region:  italy  tours |  great britain & ireland tours |  central,  northern & eastern europe tours |  greece & the mediterranean  tours |  france tours |  spain & portugal tours australia & new zealand tours |  africa tours |  asia  tours |  central & south america tours |  north america  tours |  middle east tours |  view all tour packages tour packages by type:  walking tours |  family vacations  | food & wine tours |  city stays |  special  event tours |  land & cruise tours |  nature &  wildlife tours company information:  why go ahead?
changes or cancellations will result in a fee of up to the total tour price.
services: buffet or continental  breakfast, concierge service, currency exchange, and safe deposit.
nearby, department store enthusiasts will enjoy a stroll along either oxford street or knightsbridge.
the city’s most exclusive and high-end boutiques reside within a stone's throw of the famous spanish steps.
these offer the best shopping in  paris for those on a shoestring budget.
rome also has the widest selection of neighborhood markets, where you can casually peruse everything from fresh fruit to hand-crafted goods.
in paris shopping is an art.
rome also has the widest selection of neighborhood markets, where you can  casually peruse everything from fresh fruit to hand-crafted goods.
don’t expect a friendly welcome if you are wearing  shorts, sneakers, or a printed t-shirt, don’t touch displays, and be sure  to ask for assistance with a polite “s’il vous plait.”
these offer the best shopping in paris for those on a shoestring budget.
please  contact the airline for more information.
c description: centrally located.
read our privacy policy.
applicable airline baggage  fees are not included and can be found atgoaheadtours.com/baggage.
some english goods to look for include wedgewood and royal doulton porcelain, teas, jams, teddy bears, and just about anything else from harrod's.
many of the most popular brand stores and bargain outlets can be found here.
don’t expect a friendly welcome if you are wearing shorts, sneakers, or a printed t-shirt, don’t touch displays, and be sure to ask for assistance with a polite “s’il vous plait.”
modern guest rooms with modern private bathrooms and air conditioning.
rome is full of remnants of the past - from the  ruins to the art to the ancient cathedrals and town squares – and the  shopping is no different, with a vast accumulation of antiques awaiting your  perusal.
regent street is one of the vital veins of this shopping  network.
shopping in paris is a serious  affair, though.
for the most part though, rome's shops seem to cater to a more egalitarian crowd than the other major cities.
the city’s most exclusive and high-end boutiques reside within a stone's  throw of the famous spanish steps.
these shops, like the high percentage of those found in the famous shopping districts of italy, are designed for the obscenely wealthy.
advertised tour prices  are based on lowest-priced departure date and gateway.
book this trip add trip to wishlist email a friend request more info print itinerary go ahead diamond property comfortable rooms with phone, tv and private bathrooms with bath or shower.
prices do not include between $60 usd and $325 usd in government taxes and  fees, including the september 11th security fee.
london is on par with new york and paris  as a major fashion capital in the world, and there are overwhelming amounts of  shopping options.
most  stores in paris are closed on a sunday, so you may want to take that day to  explore one of the city’s flea markets.
the interminable street of via del corso is a focal point of any italy shopping tour, and contains a number of chic boutiques (and plenty of less-chic ones for the budget conscious) that cater mostly to the vibrant roman youth.
629 reviews of park plaza westminster bridge london in london mercure paris montmartre in paris has 61 reviews offering 71 reviews of mercure roma piazza bologna in rome offering 71 reviews of mercure roma piazza bologna in rome *restrictions apply:   prices are per person based on  double occupancy and vary by departure date and gateway.
most stores in paris are closed on a sunday, so you may want to take that day to explore one of the city’s flea markets.
book this trip add trip to wishlist email a friend
services: the above services plus laundry and full-service restaurant.
the tour operator for your trip is ef  cultural travel ltd. cst-2060043-20.
though you aren't likely to find  a bargain when shopping in london, you will find some interesting souvenirs,  and there are some great markets for that are worth checking out whether you  plan to buy something or not.
shopping in paris can be done on any budget.
some english goods to look for include wedgewood and royal  doulton porcelain, teas, jams, teddy bears, and just about anything else from  harrod's.
tour - clothing & packing tips - currency - tipping - suggested
nearby, department store enthusiasts will enjoy a stroll along either  oxford street or knightsbridge.
these streets are home to the ever-popular  harrods and harvey nichols, both of which are insanely appealing for local and  foreign shoppers.
|  faqs  | tour reviews |  questions & answers |   suggested reading |  press |  privacy |  terms  and conditions |  site map |  careers |  contact  us join us on: click here  for bbb business review get advice from real travelers on tripadvisor
please note: prices are quoted per person in us dollars.
for the most part though, rome's  shops seem to cater to a more egalitarian crowd than the other major cities.
submit the information you submit will be used solely by go ahead tours.
the variety and style of the  stores makes a paris shopping trip a must for any fashion-conscious traveler.
tour packages by region: italy tours | great britain & ireland tours | central, northern & eastern europe tours | greece & the mediterranean tours | france tours | spain & portugal tours australia & new zealand tours | africa tours | asia tours | central & south america tours | north america tours | middle east tours | view all tour packages tour packages by type: walking tours | family vacations | food & wine tours | city stays | special event tours | land & cruise tours | nature & wildlife tours company information: why go ahead?
prices do not include between $60 usd and $325 usd in government taxes and fees, including the september 11th security fee.
parisians take fashion very seriously, so shopping in paris can be savored and enjoyed as much as a meal in one of the city’s many excellent restaurants or a visit to one of its world-class museums.
services: buffet or continental breakfast, concierge service, currency exchange, and safe deposit.
to view go ahead's complete terms and conditions, visitgoaheadtours.com/terms.
read our  privacy policy.
add to wishlist my wishlist allows a maximum of five tours.
the information you submit will be used solely by go ahead tours.
these shops, like the high percentage of  those found in the famous shopping districts of italy, are designed for the  obscenely wealthy.
applicable airline baggage fees are not included and can be found atgoaheadtours.com/baggage.
the tour operator for your trip is ef cultural travel ltd. cst-2060043-20.
shopping in paris is a serious affair, though.
go to canada site contact us request a catalog get email offers log in - browse tours - book a tour - tour specials - organize a group - about us - recently viewed tours - itinerary - all this included - dates + prices - accommodations - excursions - extend your stay - travel protection - destination information - at a glance - attractions - weather - holidays & festivals - cuisine - shopping - travel guide - passport & visa - health - transportation / walking on
paris: if you like to shop paris, france is the capital of the shopping world.
parisians take fashion very seriously, so shopping  in paris can be savored and enjoyed as much as a meal in one of the  city’s many excellent restaurants or a visit to one of its world-class  museums.
many of the most popular brand stores and bargain outlets can be found  here.
advertised tour prices are based on lowest-priced departure date and gateway.
paris: if you like to shop paris,  france is the capital of the shopping world.
london is on par with new york and paris as a major fashion capital in the world, and there are overwhelming amounts of shopping options.
rome: like the city, shopping in rome is varied.
your name your email your  friend's email(s) (you may enter up to 10 email addresses separated with either  a comma (,) or a semicolon (;) add a personalized message your name your email your  friend's email(s) (you may enter up to 10 email addresses separated with either  a comma (,) or a semicolon (;) add a personalized message are you sure you want to save this trip to your wishlist?
regent street is one of the vital veins of this shopping network.
- 629 reviews of park plaza westminster bridge london in london - mercure paris montmartre in paris has 61 reviews - offering 71 reviews of mercure roma piazza bologna in rome - offering 71 reviews of mercure roma piazza bologna in rome *restrictions apply: prices are per person based on double occupancy and vary by departure date and gateway.
please contact the airline for more information.
the interminable street of via del corso is a focal point of any italy  shopping tour, and contains a number of chic boutiques (and plenty of less-chic  ones for the budget conscious) that cater mostly to the vibrant roman youth.
though you aren't likely to find a bargain when shopping in london, you will find some interesting souvenirs, and there are some great markets for that are worth checking out whether you plan to buy something or not.
to view go ahead's complete terms and  conditions, visitgoaheadtours.com/terms.
airline fuel surcharges, as applicable at time of pricing, are included.
airline fuel surcharges, as  applicable at time of pricing, are included.
all the best  designers have boutiques in paris, and many are worth a visit just to breathe  in the elegance or to get an idea of the latest styles before heading to a more  affordable department store or flea market.
would you like to edit my wishlist so you can add this tour?
these streets are home to the ever-popular harrods and harvey nichols, both of which are insanely appealing for local and foreign shoppers.
shopping london: for just about anyone  traveling to london, shopping has been relegated to souvenir or special item  shopping due to the rising currency exchange.
the variety and style of the stores makes a paris shopping trip a must for any fashion-conscious traveler.
email a friend your name your email your friend's email(s) (you may enter up to 10 email addresses separated with either a comma (,) or a semicolon (;) add a personalized message email a friend your name your email your friend's email(s) (you may enter up to 10 email addresses separated with either a comma (,) or a semicolon (;) add a personalized message add to wishlist
all the best designers have boutiques in paris, and many are worth a visit just to breathe in the elegance or to get an idea of the latest styles before heading to a more affordable department store or flea market.
would you like to edit my  wishlist so you can add this tour?
| faqs | tour reviews | questions & answers | suggested reading | press | privacy | terms and conditions | site map | careers | contact us join us on: click here for bbb business review get advice from real travelers on tripadvisor
the best of england, scotland & ireland eastern europe: jewish heritage tour london, paris & rome 11 days from $2,659* usd now includes all government taxes & fees!
shopping london: for just about anyone traveling to london, shopping has been relegated to souvenir or special item shopping due to the rising currency exchange.
request more info print itinerary go ahead diamond property comfortable rooms with phone, tv and  private bathrooms with bath or shower.
international tour packages at an unbeatable value 1.800.590.1170