posted in shopping | 2 comments » hip paris holiday gift guide: amy thomas shops at monoprix december 19, 2011  by amy thomas evil genius society paris is one of the most dangerous cities to go gift-shopping.
continue reading » posted in events, shopping, travel | 5 comments » december 14, 2011 by clotilde dusoulier i got my first opinel pocket knife at age seven—the age of reason, my parents must have thought—during a summer vacation in the french alps.
parisians embrace fashion week, but that’s not to say you’ll get away with what you could in, say, new york.
on one of my weekends abroad, i’m jetting to copenhagen.
i set out on a mission to  discover the seasonal delights that france’s most romantic city had to  offer.
it’s a little book that takes you on a tour of  paris’ best shops and ateliers for handmade goods.
i was honored a few months back to find out alexia had named one of her new designs after me – featured here in this post is one of her gold linen “pia” bags.
if you think about the delicacies and delights we all savor in  paris, you can find some real steals right at your neighborhood grocer.
matchy-matchy, perfectly pressed and impeccably coordinated is just un-parisian.
posted in shopping | no comments » december 21, 2011 by maggie battista french feasts, dutch oven (ames lai) christmas is four days away et bien sûr, i am quite tardy in purchasing some very special gifts for the very special people in my life.
continue reading » posted in events, shopping, travel | 5 comments » hip paris holiday gift guide: clotilde dusoulier loves opinel knives december 14, 2011  by clotilde dusoulier tiago pereira i got my first opinel pocket knife at age seven—the age of reason, my  parents must have thought—during a summer vacation in the french alps.
in a few days, i’ll be sipping wine at un petit café in the marais, just in time, we all hope, for the weather to finally swing toward spring.
here’s the specific way to set french silverware erica’s tips on dining chez les french written by béatrice peltre for the hip paris blog.
or, in the “personal goods” section, you can find  lovely big blocks of olive oil soap, which are great “man gifts.”
drying herbs (porter palmer), salt (little brown pen)
doles hommes parisiens share that certainje ne sais quoi for which their female counterparts are so admired?
besides visiting verjus and au passage bien sur, i hope to dine at septime and bistro volnay.
continue reading » posted in food, shopping | 7 comments » « older entries french restaurant etiquette: dining in france like a local five reasons to love le bon marché
i mean, when you’re looking for the perfect piece of the city of light to share with your family and friends, how can you resist the soaps at fragonard, the pottery and notebooks at astier de villatte, the cool kid cds at colette or the boites of macarons and chocolates all over town—for yourself?
my dear friend, stylist, photographer and author pia jane bijkerk, used to  live here too, and she wrote a wonderful guide that everyone should have when  they go to paris.
maggie’s top food & shopping picks february 21, 2012  by maggie battista alecska
continue reading » posted in food, shopping | 3 comments » hip paris holiday gift guide: alexia hollinger’s pia bag december 20, 2011  by pia jane bijkerk not only are alexia hollinger‘s handbags très chic, and très parisien, but they are made right in the heart  of the city by alexia herself, in her gorgeous studio boutique on quiet rue  therese in the 1st arrondissement.
each member of my family had one, and they got plenty of use during mountain hikes: my father’s to carve intricate pattern on his walking stick, my mother’s to butter the baguette sandwiches when we stopped for the midday picnic.
it’s the perfect size and i love that the handles fit over the shoulder.
in fact, i’ve got your back with my favorite french-inspired cookbooks of 2011.
i set out on a mission to discover the seasonal delights that france’s most romantic city had to offer.
no wonder that, after growing up in a food-obsessed family, i, too, love to give gifts that focus attention around the celebration of a meal.
alas, time is of the essence and a quick trip to paris is not in the cards before christmas.
paris is inexhaustible when it comes to surprising me in any  unexpected ways.
i was honored a few months back to find out alexia had named one  of her new designs after me – featured here in this post is one of her  gold linen “pia” bags.
les pantalons: athletes with ample quads, beware: modern parisian trousers aretrès slim cut.
i hope to take my daily espresso atmerce and the muse, lunch at glou and unwind with an evening wine at la perle.
when i walked  into the beautifully decorated store and saw alexia working away on her sewing  machine in the back room, it felt like i’d struck gold – this was  exactly what i’d hoped to find in the heart of paris, and all it took was  a wander off the main thoroughfare and into a leafy avenue.
merci concept store (liquidx)
models come out of the woodwork and women in new york, london, paris and elsewhere put a bit more effort into their attire.
besides visiting verjus and au passage bien sur, i hope to dine at  septime and bistro volnay.
but there’s another way  to work around this fair city that’strès cher:
now that the weather’s turning around, ditch the bulk and grab your most daring pieces.
looking for a fabulous vacation rental in  london, paris, provence, or tuscany?
brand names likele jacquard français specialize in the art of dressing up a dining table with beautiful and colorful patterned tablecloths and napkins—i am a fan.
continue reading » posted in food, shopping | 3 comments » december 20, 2011 by pia jane bijkerk not only are alexia hollinger‘s handbags très chic, and très parisien, but they are made right in the heart of the city by alexia herself, in her gorgeous studio boutique on quiet rue therese in the 1st arrondissement.
what’s not to love about a gorgeous-looking table setting with scrumptious food at its center?
during the holidays, they are  favorite spots to find precious gifts to celebrate our love for beautifully  presented foods.
remember that quirky vintage hat you just had to have?
after all, freezing temperatures make it near impossible to trade your puffy coat (the one that doubles as a sleeping bag) in for a cropped leather jacket, right?
though, the best part of being in my own paris  pied-a-terre is stocking up at themarche des enfants rouge for home-cooked  dishes that always seem to taste better in paris.
here’s your chance to wear it and not hear “mon dieu”  whispered more times than you can count.
i have quite the collection of alexia bags now, almost one for each day of the week.
more than anything though, i simply want to find my favorite spots near my marais flat.
my dear friend, stylist, photographer and author pia jane bijkerk, used to live here too, and she wrote a wonderful guide that everyone should have when they go to paris.
no wonder that, after growing up in a  food-obsessed family, i, too, love to give gifts that focus attention around  the celebration of a meal.
au merveilleux de fred: a meringue bakery in paris eight paris essentials and why you need them how to be a parisienne: 10 golden rules what to wear in france in the winter: tips from julie blakley paris inspirations
being a new england girl, i suppose i’m a sucker for the cold weather.
stores go all out with light shows and designer-crafted window displays – always tasteful,bien sur.
le foulard: there may be no look more “french” than an  artfully tied scarf.
for better or worse, the price tags keep some of the madness in check.
looking for a fabulous vacation rental in london, paris, provence, or tuscany?
related links: check out pia’s blog and her handmade paris guide the new york times t magazine visits alexia hollinger’s paris store kasia dietz is an expat also designs lovely handbags in paris written and photos by pia jane bijkerk.
continue  reading » posted in design, parisian living, shopping | 7 comments » hip paris holiday gift guide: la tartine gourmande béatrice peltre december 22, 2011  by beatrice peltre l’art de la table (literally translating as “the art  of the table”) is probably as much about food as it is about having  beautiful table linens and dinnerware, tasteful flowers, and colorful table  accessories to enhance the dining experience.
annelie willemijn here are some hallmarks of parisian style pour homme, as seen on  the city’s streets this chilly season.
when early march hits, something in the air changes.
miette (violet blue) 2.
it’s the perfect size and i  love that the handles fit over the shoulder.
or those wonderfully whimsical printed  tights that you feel just a little bit funny wearing around on any old day?
miette (yuichi sakuraba, a baked creation)
in france, gorgeous-looking kitchen stores filled with beautiful dinnerware  and designer linens can be found everywhere.
just be sure to have them give you a coin (any small piece of change will do) in exchange for the knife: french superstition states that if you give away a knife without getting anything in return, you risk severing the friendship.
doles hommes parisiens share that certainje ne sais quoi for which their female counterparts  are so admired?
check out haven in paris.
continue reading » posted in shopping | 3 comments » december 16, 2011 by yvette van boven
one of the places she lists is le petit atelier de paris, so of  course i went.
march also (hopefully) marks the end of winter, a season when dreary days have the masses stuck in a style rut.
based on the sweet boutiques in san francisco, miette: recipes from san francisco’s most charming pastry shop is a darling cookbook filled with scalloped pages of classic tart, cake and cookie recipes.
what happens in the cold windy days leading up to the big event?
in fact, i’ve got your back with my  favorite french-inspired cookbooks of 2011.
fashion choices are understandably made based on the practicality of pieces rather than how they actually look.
from the classic burberry check to sumptuous cashmere or printed cotton, a casually wrapped neck is simply a must.
although the christmas shopping frenzy begins relatively late in paris (thankfully, shops only step into gear at the end of november), once it gets going, it really gets going.
looking for a fabulous  vacation rental in london, paris, provence, or tuscany?
i was at a gala celebrating jacque pepin’s contribution to culinaria recently and while he had a last minute hiccup that prevented his appearance, his new cookbookessential pepin: more than 700 all-time favorites from my life in food stood in for him proudly.
comings and goings in the tuileries, paris fashion week 2012 (boswell) now that the weather’s turning around, ditch the bulk and grab your  most daring pieces.
i have quite the collection of alexia bags now, almost one  for each day of the week.
all photos by béatrice.
there’s too much to squeeze into this 3-week trip.
when i popped home to the uk in november, london was already in full festive swing with christmas trees, festive songs and neon lights galore.
we’ve lived here in paris part time for more than 4 years now, but i  still discover new places, neighborhoods, and restaurants every single time we  go on a stroll.
brand names likele jacquard français specialize in the  art of dressing up a dining table with beautiful and colorful patterned  tablecloths and napkins—i am a fan.
men are rarely seen in paris without stylish neck wear — rain or shine.
septime (lindsey tramuta)
posted in shopping | no comments » foodie christmas gifts: five french-inspired cookbooks december 21, 2011  by maggie battista french feasts, dutch oven (ames lai) christmas is four days away et bien sûr, i am quite tardy in  purchasing some very special gifts for the very special people in my life.
we’ve lived here in paris part time for more than 4 years now, but i still discover new places, neighborhoods, and restaurants every single time we go on a stroll.
for weekendsen ville, swap out the dress shoes for a well-worn pair of tennis — puma or adidas, please.
continue reading » posted in design, food, parisian living, shopping | 7 comments » paris winter fashion: les hommes parisiens are seductive, sexy, cool january 16, 2012  by paige bradley frost christopher hue paris is known for many things: its light, its bistros and, of course, its  fashionably chic women.
while i hope to buy something special at merci (a girl can dream),  i’ll definitely pop intoles mauvaises graines, an urban garden concept  store in montmartre, and will likely fall in love with a handcrafted souvenir at le petite atelier de paris.
i was thrilled to get my own, a tiny, child-size replica of the classic  savoyard pocket knife, with its glossy wood handle, its pointy steel blade, and  the rotating ring that locked it all into place.
fashion week is both daunting and exciting; add a locale like paris  to the mix and both sensations are heightened.
i discovered her boutique about 4 years  ago when i was researching for my first bookparis: made by hand.
during the holidays, they are favorite spots to find precious gifts to celebrate our love for beautifully presented foods.
like those spotted on fashionable parisiennes, slim-cut dark wash jeans for men can go almost anywhere in paris these days.
so that’s right up my alley, of course.
paris is inexhaustible when it comes to surprising me in any unexpected ways.
one of the places she lists is le petit atelier de paris, so of course i went.
what exactly is a parisian christmas?
related links: béatrice just wrote her first cookbook based on her blog!
i can imagine gifting this girly book with everything needed to make  owner, chef and author meg ray’s famous tomboy cake, pictured on the  book’s cover.
models come out of the  woodwork and women in new york, london, paris and elsewhere put a bit more  effort into their attire.
opinel pocket knives make for wonderful gifts, too: they’re not at all expensive, they’ll last a lifetime, and they’ll accompany the recipient on their outdoor adventures—even if it’s just an improvised picnic in the park.
continue reading » posted in arts, design, homes, parisian living, shopping | 2 comments » december 15, 2011 by victoria wall
sent back with a cadbury’s chocolate advent calendar adorned with an oversized santa, i was ready to start the christmas season with a bang.
i’m also  eager to visit what’s hailed as the best restaurant in the world and  after several odd-hour phone calls to denmark, lucked out with a reservation at noma.
twenty-five years later, this miniature opinel is much too small for me to  use, but i have a grownup’s version now, which i’m sure to take  with me on any walk in the wild, and especially on mushroom foraging trips: not  to brag, but that opinel has seen its share of porcini.
or, in the “personal goods” section, you can find lovely big blocks of olive oil soap, which are great “man gifts.”
alas, in a word, non. parisian men do, however, have distinctive style that manages to marry the rakish allure of vincent cassel or olivier martinez with the more bourgeois appeal of, say, francois cluzet.
for better or worse,  the price tags keep some of the madness in check.
but there’s another way to work around this fair city that’strès cher:
delivered with some very good chocolate to make his version of chocolate mousse, this cookbook would be a prized possession.
her bags make the ideal gift and if you can’t  make it into the boutique yourself, then you can easily buy a bag from her  latest collectiononline as alexia ships all over the world.
here are a few  guidelines to aid in your pfw sartorial adventures:continue reading » posted in events, parisian living, shopping | 8 comments » three weeks in paris:
continue reading » posted in design, food, parisian living, shopping | 7 comments » january 16, 2012 by paige bradley frost paris is known for many things: its light, its bistros and, of course, its fashionably chic women.
no wonder the french love to gather around tables to eat.
but i can still be the belle of their hearts and kitchens by  gifting an old standby: a favorite french cookbook, with all the most delicious  recipes well-marked, and a quickly-assembled glass jar ofsel de mer,  glistening and studded with herbs de provence.
paris’s iconic department stores.
if you’re not in the fashion industry, it’s easy to be bewildered by the overnight switch from simple booties to stilettos.
if you’re also delayed in holiday shopping, i don’t mind if you take my idea and make it your own.
inside there is a pocket for your phone, a  key clip, and zip pocket for personal items.
just be sure to have them give you a coin (any  small piece of change will do) in exchange for the knife: french superstition  states that if you give away a knife without getting anything in return, you  risk severing the friendship.
they’re compact, come in infinite varieties, and pack a delicious punch per centime.
continue reading » posted in design, parisian living, shopping | 7 comments » december 22, 2011 by beatrice peltre l’art de la table (literally translating as “the art of the table”) is probably as much about food as it is about having beautiful table linens and dinnerware, tasteful flowers, and colorful table accessories to enhance the dining experience.
fear not, mes amis –  dressing like a chic insider for paris fashion week is possible.
here’s your chance to wear it and not hear “mon dieu” whispered more times than you can count.
it’s a little book that takes you on a tour of paris’ best shops and ateliers for handmade goods.
her bags make the ideal gift and if you can’t make it into the boutique yourself, then you can easily buy a bag from her latest collectiononline as alexia ships all over the world.
we’ll see if copenhagen food stacks up to paris culinaria.
i can imagine gifting this girly book with everything needed to make owner, chef and author meg ray’s famous tomboy cake, pictured on the book’s cover.
paris’ best bike shops coffee in paris?
if you think about the delicacies and delights we all savor in paris, you can find some real steals right at your neighborhood grocer.
in a few days, i’ll be sipping wine at un petit café in the marais, just in time, we all hope, for the weather to finally swing  toward spring.
i discovered her boutique about 4 years ago when i was researching for my first bookparis: made by hand.
perhaps i’ll splurge on a meal at l’hôtel thoumieux.
making magique yet once back home across the pond, i realized paris hadn’t joined in  on the fun yet.
posted in shopping | 2 comments » december 19, 2011 by amy thomas paris is one of the most dangerous cities to go gift-shopping.
le foulard: there may be no look more “french” than an artfully tied scarf.
alexia’s designs are sophisticated but practical – every time i visit paris, i stop into alexia’s boutique and buy a bag for myself and another as a gift.
march also (hopefully) marks the end  of winter, a season when dreary days have the masses stuck in a style rut.
although the christmas shopping frenzy begins relatively late in paris  (thankfully, shops only step into gear at the end of november), once it gets  going, it really gets going.
since i work for a company that rents boutique parisian flats, i do tend to  gift friends and family with french-inspired goodies, items that will inject  the everyday life with a bit ofla vie française.
what’s not to love about a  gorgeous-looking table setting with scrumptious food at its center?
related links: written by béatrice peltre for the hip paris blog.
better yet, if  those goodies can be french food-inspired, i’m practically guaranteed une note de gratitude before the ball drops on new year’s.
a gently pointed toe is the only shoe shape that looksright right now.
check out haven in paris.
but i can still be the belle of their hearts and kitchens by gifting an old standby: a favorite french cookbook, with all the most delicious recipes well-marked, and a quickly-assembled glass jar ofsel de mer, glistening and studded with herbs de provence.
when i walked into the beautifully decorated store and saw alexia working away on her sewing machine in the back room, it felt like i’d struck gold – this was exactly what i’d hoped to find in the heart of paris, and all it took was a wander off the main thoroughfare and into a leafy avenue.
whilst london has toy-filled hamleys and elegant harrods, paris showcases its trademark sophistication with les galleries lafayette and the neighbouring printemps, where karl lagerfeld’s touch marks this year’s displays: think chanel-clad rock ‘n’ roll dolls strumming their electric guitars and 20m christmas trees.
alas, in a word, non. parisian men do, however, have distinctive style that manages to marry the  rakish allure of vincent cassel or olivier martinez with the more bourgeois  appeal of, say, francois cluzet.
for weekendsen ville, swap out the dress shoes for a  well-worn pair of tennis — puma or adidas, please.
au merveilleux de fred: a meringue bakery in paris eight paris essentials and why you need them how to be a parisienne: 10 golden rules what to wear in france in the winter: tips from julie blakley ...
but what about its men?
if you’re not in the fashion industry,  it’s easy to be bewildered by the overnight switch from simple booties to  stilettos.
fashion week is both daunting and exciting; add a locale like paris to the mix and both sensations are heightened.
men’s shoes have gone narrow and pointy; classics like leather oxfords and sporty suede bucks have seemingly been stretched.
each member of my family had one, and they got plenty of use during mountain  hikes: my father’s to carve intricate pattern on his walking stick, my  mother’s to butter the baguette sandwiches when we stopped for the midday  picnic.
finally, coffee you can drink in the city of lights!
whether it’s jeans, chinos or wool trousers, keep the cut close; a flared  leg or tailored cuff is a definite style don’t.
or those wonderfully whimsical printed tights that you feel just a little bit funny wearing around on any old day?
more than anything though, i simply want to find my favorite spots near my  marais flat.
check  out haven in paris.
after all, freezing temperatures make it  near impossible to trade your puffy coat (the one that doubles as a sleeping  bag) in for a cropped leather jacket, right?
based on the sweet boutiques in san francisco, miette:  recipes from san francisco’s most charming pastry shop is a  darling cookbook filled with scalloped pages of classic tart, cake and cookie  recipes.
twenty-five years later, this miniature opinel is much too small for me to use, but i have a grownup’s version now, which i’m sure to take with me on any walk in the wild, and especially on mushroom foraging trips: not to brag, but that opinel has seen its share of porcini.
i hope to take my daily espresso atmerce and the muse, lunch at  glou and unwind with an evening wine at la perle.
continue reading » posted in arts, design, homes, parisian living, shopping | 2 comments  » christmas in the city of lights: seeking out paris’ holiday cheer december 15, 2011  by victoria wall mic mac when i popped home to the uk in november, london was already in full  festive swing with christmas trees, festive songs and neon lights galore.
march 1, 2012 by erin dahl when early march hits, something in the air changes.
in short, his cool charm derives from an unstudied, imperfect look that works without looking overworked.
as soon as our timetable lets us go, my husband and i move from our base in amsterdam to our tiny apartment in paris.
being a new  england girl, i suppose i’m a sucker for the cold weather.
matchy-matchy,  perfectly pressed and impeccably coordinated is just un-parisian.
they’re compact, come in infinite varieties, and pack a delicious punch  per centime.
fashion choices are understandably made based on the practicality of pieces  rather than how they actually look.
they may not be as raffiné as what you’d find at le bon marché, but the options are pretty darn cute, nonetheless.
so that’s right  up my alley, of course.
from the classic burberry check to sumptuous cashmere or  printed cotton, a casually wrapped neck is simply a must.
i promise to only visit  jacques genin’s fabulous boutique once or twice if, and only if, i take a  few strolls around the square du temple.
like those  spotted on fashionable parisiennes, slim-cut dark wash jeans for men can go  almost anywhere in paris these days.
take,  for example, the pajama aisle.
i was at a gala celebrating jacque pepin’s contribution to  culinaria recently and while he had a last minute hiccup that prevented his  appearance, his new cookbookessential pepin: more than 700 all-time  favorites from my life in food stood in for him proudly.
while i hope to buy something special at merci (a girl can dream), i’ll definitely pop intoles mauvaises graines, an urban garden concept store in montmartre, and will likely fall in love with a handcrafted souvenir at le petite atelier de paris.
coming  out in february.
since i work for a company that rents boutique parisian flats, i do tend to gift friends and family with french-inspired goodies, items that will inject the everyday life with a bit ofla vie française.
better yet, if those goodies can be french food-inspired, i’m practically guaranteed une note de gratitude before the ball drops on new year’s.
continue reading » posted in shopping | 3 comments » hip paris holiday gift guide by yvette van boven: le petit atelier de paris december 16, 2011  by yvette van boven
sent  back with a cadbury’s chocolate advent calendar adorned with an oversized  santa, i was ready to start the christmas season with a bang.
here are some hallmarks of parisian style pour homme, as seen on the city’s streets this chilly season.
whilst london has  toy-filled hamleys and elegant harrods, paris showcases its trademark  sophistication with les galleries lafayette and the neighbouring printemps,  where karl lagerfeld’s touch marks this year’s displays: think  chanel-clad rock ‘n’ roll dolls strumming their electric guitars  and 20m christmas trees.
i was ready to start in on my advent calendar and temperatures  were plunging, but where were all those tell tale signs that our favorite  mid-winter festival was fast approaching?
in france, gorgeous-looking kitchen stores filled with beautiful dinnerware and designer linens can be found everywhere.
whether it’s jeans, chinos or wool trousers, keep the cut close; a flared leg or tailored cuff is a definite style don’t.
no wonder the french love to  gather around tables to eat.
in short, his cool charm derives from an  unstudied, imperfect look that works without looking overworked.
worn with a tailored blazer or fine-knit sweater (think body-hugging),un jean works just as well for a stroll through the centre pompidou as it does for a dinner at a swank bistro.
men’s shoes have gone narrow and pointy;  classics like leather oxfords and sporty suede bucks have seemingly been  stretched.
related links: written and photos by pia jane bijkerk.
as soon as our timetable lets us go, my husband and i move from our base in  amsterdam to our tiny apartment in paris.
rue therese paris alexia’s designs are sophisticated but practical – every time i  visit paris, i stop into alexia’s boutique and buy a bag for myself and  another as a gift.
i’m also eager to visit what’s hailed as the best restaurant in the world and after several odd-hour phone calls to denmark, lucked out with a reservation at noma.
kaspar metz opinel pocket knives make for wonderful gifts, too: they’re not at  all expensive, they’ll last a lifetime, and they’ll accompany the  recipient on their outdoor adventures—even if it’s just an  improvised picnic in the park.
alas, time is of the essence and a quick trip to paris is not in the cards  before christmas.
annelie willemijn les pantalons: athletes with ample quads,  beware: modern parisian trousers aretrès slim cut.
here are a few guidelines to aid in your pfw sartorial adventures:continue reading » posted in events, parisian living, shopping | 8 comments » february 21, 2012 by maggie battista
inside there is a pocket for your phone, a key clip, and zip pocket for personal items.
just don’t say i never gave you anything… 1.
delivered  with some very good chocolate to make his version of chocolate mousse, this  cookbook would be a prized possession.
i was thrilled to get my own, a tiny, child-size replica of the classic savoyard pocket knife, with its glossy wood handle, its pointy steel blade, and the rotating ring that locked it all into place.
continue reading » posted in food, shopping | 7 comments »« older entries french restaurant etiquette: dining in france like a local five reasons to love le bon marché
take, for example, the pajama aisle.
home  •   twitter   facebook   rss    •    subscribe to newsletter paris fashion week: how to dress the part march 1, 2012  by erin dahl posing in the tuileries in between shows, paris fashion week 2012 ( boswell)
i was ready to start in on my advent calendar and temperatures were plunging, but where were all those tell tale signs that our favorite mid-winter festival was fast approaching?
stores go all out with light shows and  designer-crafted window displays – always tasteful,bien sur.
perhaps i’ll splurge on a meal at  l’hôtel thoumieux.
they may not be as raffiné as what you’d find at le bon marché, but the options are pretty  darn cute, nonetheless.
le jacquard français’ cute blog mademoiselle jacquard (in  french)
(don’t forget the matching slippers.)
worn with a tailored blazer or fine-knit  sweater (think body-hugging),un jean works just as well for a  stroll through the centre pompidou as it does for a dinner at a swank bistro.
though, the best part of being in my own paris pied-a-terre is stocking up at themarche des enfants rouge for home-cooked dishes that always seem to taste better in paris.
i promise to only visit jacques genin’s fabulous boutique once or twice if, and only if, i take a few strolls around the square du temple.
this set me thinking.
i mean, when  you’re looking for the perfect piece of the city of light to share with  your family and friends, how can you resist the soaps at fragonard, the pottery  and notebooks at astier de villatte, the cool kid cds at colette or the boites of macarons and chocolates all over town—for yourself?
fear not, mes amis – dressing like a chic insider for paris fashion week is possible.
parisians embrace fashion week, but that’s not to say  you’ll get away with what you could in, say, new york.
what happens in  the cold windy days leading up to the big event?
for the men in your life, grab some jars of mustard and tins of sardines.
yet once back home across the pond, i realized paris hadn’t joined in on the fun yet.
think of this week as an opportunity.
it’s easy to be greedy around such lovely loot.
if you’re also delayed in holiday shopping, i don’t mind if you  take my idea and make it your own.
men are rarely seen in paris without stylish neck wear  — rain or shine.