alternatively, you can chose how to  spend your free time.
in the early evening we head back to gare du nord for our return journey to london where you will be met and escorted back to your hotel making the tour completely fully escorted!
when booking by telephone please quote bv pt
important: please note, this tour is non-refundable and non-amendable!
optional extras not included in the price - purchase from your guide on  the day (option 1: louvre entry & guided walking tour: 25 gbp, option  2: louvre entry without guided tour: 7 gbp)
upon arrival you will enjoy a panoramic tour of the city taking in all the major sites including notre dame, champs elysees, the river seine and the arc de triomphe before arriving at the eiffel tower where we enjoy fast entry group access.
after your free hotel transfer we connect you with your representative at st pancreas international who will escort you onboard eurostar and throughout the day in paris.
after our cruise, if you so wish enjoy a guided tour of the louvre* and see the world famous mona lisa.
spend your free time.
»  paris via eurostar fully escorted day tour (standard class) highlights: *hotel transfer from your central london hotel *  guided panoramic tour of paris *
25 tour price currency conversion child price: £159 (4 - 11 yrs) (including all relevant entrance fees.)
in the afternoon we take a cruise on the river seine with spectacular views  of the notre dame.
we will return to london at around 9.15 (pm).
website by creative jar
after your free hotel transfer we connect you with your  representative at st pancreas international who will escort you onboard  eurostar and throughout the day in paris.
travelling at speeds up to 186mph and passing en route through the 31 mile long channel tunnel you will be in paris in just 2 hours 40 minutes.
pick up from your central london hotel will be at 6.00  (am).
optional extras not included in the price - purchase from your guide on the day (option 1: louvre entry & guided walking tour: 25 gbp, option 2: louvre entry without guided tour: 7 gbp)
travelling at speeds up to 186mph and  passing en route through the 31 mile long channel tunnel you will be in paris  in just 2 hours 40 minutes.
there is simply no better way to visit paris in a leisurely day out from london.
highlights: *hotel transfer from your central london hotel * guided panoramic tour of paris * fast entry tickets to the second level of the eiffel tower * cruise on the river seine * guide to assist you throughout the day, including on board eurostar * optional visit to the louvre (at additional cost)
in the afternoon we take a cruise on the river seine with spectacular views of the notre dame.
upon arrival you will enjoy a panoramic tour of the  city taking in all the major sites including notre dame, champs elysees, the  river seine and the arc de triomphe before arriving at the eiffel tower where  we enjoy fast entry group access.
alternatively, you can chose how to
this tour has proved to be extremely popular and great value!
in the early evening we head back to gare du  nord for our return journey to london where you will be met and escorted back  to your hotel making the tour completely fully escorted!
this tour has proved to be extremely popular and  great value!
after our cruise, if you so wish enjoy a guided tour of the  louvre* and see the world famous mona lisa.
there is simply no better way to visit paris in a  leisurely day out from london.
when booking by telephone please quote bv pt 25
when booking by telephone please  quote bv pt 25 simply click the button and check the gbp price with  your national currency.
important: please note, this tour is non-refundable and  non-amendable!
fast entry tickets to the second level of the  eiffel tower * cruise on the river seine * guide to assist you throughout the  day, including on board eurostar * optional visit to the louvre (at additional  cost)
pick up from your central london hotel will be at 6.00 (am).