lz : you were a member of the editorial committee for the paris short story contest.
a murder… a new planet mankind desperately  needs… a thousand-year old conspiracy…
(to chat & socialise...)
“she makes sandwiches out  of things you don’t normally make sandwiches from, and likes simple  adjectives, such as good and bad and fast.”
kf : our subscriber base has gown over the  years and is constantly expanding.
rosa, in addition to co-founding a tale of  three cities, has also just won first prize for her novella, the ..... of sark.
in the beginningbonjourparis was part of the internet from  the day when aol first allowed everyday users, not just techhies using code, to  communicate.
the world--my world at least--is upside down, and it seems wrong not to acknowledge this.
if you have already registered, it is noted.
when family emergencies forced me to take a  break several years ago, i was unable to makebonjourparis my top  priority.
here are the latest additions to the many  excellent designs we have received from talented artists.
how do you  intend to select content?
no text  messages please other expos god & country | matthew rose new works on paper exhibition: 30  août –30 septembre 2011 storie | 20 rue delambre 75014  paris, france horaires: 15h00 - 20h00 tlj, sauf lundi métro:  vavin/montparnasse/edgar quinet posted at 13:59 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (0) |  trackback (0) technorati tags: books, literary events, paris, paris writers, readings,  workshops digg
most readings will be in french.
and the rest was history.
please reserve with sophie kandaouroff, chlavigny@hotmail.com.
very quickly, it becomes difficult to find people who have not been welcomed by one or the other.
back copies are available at the tnw  website: http://www.thenewwriter.com/subscribe.htm  further information  including guidelines and entry fees at: http://www.thenewwriter.com/prizes.htm society of women writers and journalists, international online  “life writing” competition, http://swwj.co.uk/lifewritingcomp.html; closing date, sept. 30, 2011 workshop (geneva) september 17, from personal  essays to opinion and travel essays.
deadline: september 30, 2011 news and calls for submissions from our friends in geneva (thank you  susan tiberghien!)
and, surprisingly, many of our print “competitors”—some very  fine publications—had folded because they didn’t keep up with the  times.
for example, ralph, who's the berlin editor, writes short stories.
and, surprisingly, many of our print “competitors”—some very fine publications—had folded because they didn’t keep up with the times.
the american library in paris events thu 5 january : charles glass will speak about his book  americans in paris: life and death under the nazi occupation 1940-1944 at  american club of paris (entry fee : 50 euros for non-members) read paris writers news interview january 7-8 used book sale at the american library in paris.
- sf author gary gibson.
a few stories were  immediate toss-outs.
(for more on barry kirwan, see his website and  paris  writers news interview.)
exploring the historic city  of light by john baxter a chateau in provence by charles wood an american provence by thomas p. huber gourmet paris on a shoestring by kristin dorman, nina louchard waking up in france by sarah meade posted at 12:04 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (0) |  trackback (0) technorati tags: books, charles glass, events, geneva writers conference,  jean lesieur, jeffrey greene, jim bitterman, paris digg this | save to del.icio.us 23 january 2012 obama taps young french talent to compose official 2012 campaign song  what's more who's got talent?
rosa : we have lots of projects on the go, me and this  boy, which are not all necessarily literary, some of them are to be kept  secret.
clearly, people come and go based on their interest in or travel to france.
i first had the  pleasure of meeting karen nearly 25 years ago, in one of
we consider all of this in  choosing writers and proposed story topics.
and also we believe in really specific things, you know?if you go on our website and click the triangle, you can read more about it.
literary events in paris (september 2011) monday 5th september - 7pm mary lou longworth presents death at the chateau bremont at wh smith monday 5th sept, 9pm spokenword at cabaret populaire/culture rapide.
at the american library in paris: 7:30 pm january 19 cherie burns on her book searching for beauty--the life of millicent rogers, the first comprehensive biography of the standard oil heiress and fashion icon.
for example, when organizations we work with—such as google—change rules and policies we must respond in kind.
at am library thursday 22
for more information, www.chateaudelavigny.ch.
at am library sunday 11 september  15h00-16h30 special exhibit ‘a new  yorker remembers 9/11’,share your memories of 9/11 with al  herter—native new yorker and part-time paris resident.
and these stories get picked up and repeated, according to our site analytical reports.
one of esquire magazine’s 75 brilliant brits of 2010, rosa also foundedalight here and the fun and beautiful journal.
might one of these be  the cover?
the ditty, entitled what's more, was written bytony jazz and mathieu billon,  who, in addition to being young, very young, are immensely talented and  energetic.
it’s a definite art that involves strategic placement of optimized keywords and the like.
she has been president and owner of bonjour paris since the site launched on the internet more than 14 years ago.
what really awaits us on  eden?
i've been lucky in that i've been published in mainstream  publications but the reason we started the magazine is that there are so many  young people, young writers, artists who just haven't had that first step.
email ellen sugarman  at  lfrank88888@gmail.com or call at 06-3836-0545.
the articles focused on profiles of people in their homes, and designers and architects who realized their clients’ dreams.
readings  tobe  followed by an apératif with the chance to speak with the  resident writers.
richard zimler also wrote the screenplay for the slow mirror, a short film which was awarded the best drama award at the new york city short film festival in may of 2010.
he  currently lives inportugal and has written several novels about generations of  a portuguese jewish family.
in onea young french  mother navigates the world of paris intellectuals, with their complex ideas and  casually passionate relationships; in another, a soviet jew competes  in a chess tournament in buenos aires against israelis, and the thought of  defection tempts him.
a stunning acknowledgement of young french talent!
bonjourparis has always been part of what’s new, which  has required that we be very proactive and flexible to new developments in  technology.
she has been  president and owner of bonjour paris since the site launched on the internet  more than 14 years ago.
charlie leocha, publisher ofconsumer traveler and director of the consumer travel alliance, has taught me to be a more linear writer.
spokenword blog at http://spokenwordparis.blogspot.com/ wednesday september 7 7.30pm piers faccini and francesca beard, standing room at le trianon in montmartre paris.
but, as some of you know, my mother passed away recently,  less than four months after being diagnosed with metastatic melanoma, and my  normal fields of inquiry seem small and uninspiring.
writers (and most especially freelancers) will earn substantially less than they would have earned 20 years ago.
eve zuckerman, 17, was the editor in chief of l’inébranlable, named best french high school newspaper 2011.
well, what we have in common, the reason why our magazine worked at  university [research] is that we have similar aesthetic depths.
somehow, amidst all the excitement, rosa, jethro and eve found a quiet  place to talk.
to learn more about american citizens abroad, www.americansabroad.org prose and poetry prizes 2011, the new writer magazine, closing date 30 november.
i’ve also been inspired by attending many authors’ readings.
bonjour on the travel channel of aol and  compuserve.
all of us in paris are very fortunate that george's remarkable daughter  sylvia continues shakespeare and company's outstanding tradition of dynamic and  generous contribution to the literary arts.
odile hellier of the village voice bookstore in paris has had a strong influence on my reading selections for the past 23 years, and reading a wide range of style and authors i hope has made me a better writer.
once they've had that, they can go to other places.
at the american library of paris 7:30 pm january 26, 7-8 pm wh smith, sheila kohler presents and signs becoming jane eyre interview thu 26 january, 2012 – paris - nyu paris - «the francophone americas: perspectives on haiti» lecture on voodoo with dimitri bechacq 7:00 pm, new york university in paris 7.30 pm friday, 27 january 5:30 - 6:30 pm david lodge will sign his new book a man of parts, followed by reading and q&a 7-8 pm atwh smith paris tue 31 january, 2012 – wice @ the library - writers on writing with jeffrey greene 7:30 pm, american library in paris new books -- blossoming in provence by kristin espinasse, author of the delightfulfrench word a day blog failing paris by samantha dunn, a finalist for the pen center usa literary fiction award lessons for madame chic: the top 20 things i learned while living in paris by jennifer l. scott between soul & stone by margo berdeshevsky paris :
changes over the last five years alone have taught us to adapt quickly to change and be proactive when possible.
see here for submissions guidelines.
my (now  deceased) husband earned considerably more money, but i had a far better time.
others receive bonjourparis stories as they are posted at the site via rrs feed or via  our facebook page.
jethro : to engage with interesting, creative, young  people in the three cities.
karen fawcett is accredited by the french ministry of the interior as a member of the foreign press, a member of the public relations society of america, the european- american press club, the french press club, the national press club in washington, dc and was a founding member of the american institute of wine and food’s paris chapter.
this month, news from the geneva writers conference, kartik singh, florence valero, kristin espinasse, samantha dunn, jennifer l. scott, vahram muratyam, charles wood, thomas huber, jean claude gautrand, john baxter, sarah meade, jeffrey greene, barry kirwan, sheila kohler, best paris stories, charles glass, margo berdeshevsky, jim bitterman, jean lesieur, the american library in paris, shakespeare and co, village voice, wh smith, nyu paris, wice, lionel shriver, eugève nicole, the american club, beth epstein, cherie burns, dimitri bechacq and more, if you have a new book or event in paris you'd like to announce, let me know.
somehow, amidst all the excitement, rosa, jethro and eve found a quiet place to talk.
* an old friend and student of shamans said that when her time comes, she would like her children to take her to a beautiful place, prop her up against a tree and leave her to die alone in nature.
fast forward: i became an ongoing features/cover story contributor who produced stories and entire editions for over three years.
back copies are available at the tnw website: http://www.thenewwriter.com/subscribe.htm further information including guidelines and entry fees at: http://www.thenewwriter.com/prizes.htm society of women writers and journalists, international online “life writing” competition, http://swwj.co.uk/lifewritingcomp.html; closing date, sept. 30, 2011 workshop (geneva) september 17, from personal essays to opinion and travel essays.
sign up on the night from 8pm  2.
what really awaits us on eden?
today we focus more on presenting the news from france without  editorializing.
this | save to del.icio.us 04 october 2011 interview with karen fawcett, founder of bonjour paris journalist, editor, blogger, publisher, businesswoman, talent scout,  parisian and world traveler, karen fawcett is the president and founder of  bonjourparis.com the definitive guide to paris.
when technological advances such as apps, smartphones and digital readers  became increasingly popular in the past 5 years or so, we were forced to look  at functionality as well as site design because such innovations affect how  readers view our content.
(for more on barry kirwan, see his website and paris writers news interview.)
our premium members pay $34.95 a year for their subscriptions and some perks.
at the american library iin paris 7:30 pm january 22, play reading of "public school" by kartik  singh at carr's restaurant and pub with moving parts, 7:30 pm 1  rue du mont thabor, 75001 paris january 24 arthur phillips presents the tragedy of arthur.
while my husband was sitting in meetings in different parts of the  world, i was out meeting and doing and asking so many “none of my  business” questions.
i am increasingly proud of each and every article published, but this wasn’t always so.
"dramatiquement drôle" - l'express acheter ce livre: amazon.fr, fnac, eyrolles, gibert joseph "wickedly funny" - good teacher magazine "an argument for the power and importance of teacher education"- education review amazon.fr, amazon.com, barnes and noble, indie bound, waterstones, blackwells, wh smith "une fraîche et amusante satire du monde de la recherche."
lucidity, she said, is crucial for me.
lecture on voodoo with dimitri bechacq   7:00 pm, new york university  in paris 7.30 pm friday, 27 january 5:30 - 6:30 pm david lodge will sign his new  book a man of parts, followed by reading and q&a 7-8 pm atwh smith paris tue 31 january, 2012 – wice @ the library -  writers on writing with jeffrey greene 7:30 pm, american library  in paris new books -- blossoming in provence by kristin espinasse,  author of the delightfulfrench word a day blog failing paris by samantha dunn, a finalist for  the pen center usa literary fiction award lessons for madame chic: the top 20 things i learned while living in paris  by jennifer l. scott between soul & stone by margo berdeshevsky paris : portrait of a city by jean-claude  gautrand paris versus new york: a tally of two citie s by vahram muratyam chronicles of old paris:
the world--my world at  least--is upside down, and it seems wrong not to acknowledge this.
william busch, micheal dekel, jonathan freedman, margo berdeshevsky, lee e. shilo, naofimi hojin, pascal nocquet, lydia d'moch, ryssa mae allercon, sophie ren, louisa gioffre suziki, bas zwigtman, sarah nocquet, sharon watts, and bob bouwense. via parisstoriescontest.blogspot.com posted at 12:04 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: books, cover design, ebooks, paris, short stories, stories about france digg this | save to del.icio.us hortense on tuesday night will be published this fall in the best paris storiescollection posted at 12:06 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: best paris stories, marie houzelle, narrative, paris, short shories, writers digg this | save to del.icio.us a couple months ago i had the pleasure of meeting rosa rankin gee at the awards ceremony for the paris literary prize novella contest graciously organized by shakespeare and company and the de groot foundation.
please send your registrations with the attached  form, or directly in an email.
spoken word (poetry, prose, stand up, anything): you get 5 minutes, with a warning bell at 4.45 to let you know you have 15 seconds to finish.
charlie leocha, publisher ofconsumer traveler and director  of the consumer travel alliance, has taught me to be a more linear writer.
for booking and further details contact david on  d.stephenson@open.ac.uk.
rosa jumps up all of a sudden.
the american library in paris events thu 5 january : charles glass will speak about his book americans in paris: life and death under the nazi occupation 1940-1944 at american club of paris (entry fee : 50 euros for non-members) read paris writers news interview january 7-8 used book sale at the american library in paris.
congratulations to an exciting new talent!
it’s a definite art that involves strategic  placement of optimized keywords and the like.
there were no templates for content management, which required us  to hire professional code programmers.
clearly, people come and go based on their  interest in or travel to france.
how, i asked a kind nurse who was helping us, can you bear to do this,meaning to get close to people as they are dying.
see paris nighlife  goes literary for more submissions new voices, new projects is a paris-based platform for artists to exhibit  and network innovative new projects that are already in development.
and i thought of the subtle ways in which she had smoothed our path and realized this was true.
21st september - a rentrée littéraire special!
and of course, these things come down to a matter of taste.
meanwhile back on earth, eden mission analyst micah sanderson dodges assassins, and tries to work out who he can trust, as he struggles in a race against time to unravelthe eden paradox.
eve zuckerman interview : rosa rankin gee, winner of  shakespeare and company's paris literary prize for best novella, and jethro  turner, co-founder ofa tale of three cities literary journal and the bookclub  at le carmen,  talk with eve zuckerman, forparis writers news.
it's a lovely, warm, kind of wholesome idea.
he takes photos of interesting people and interesting doorframes.”
our writers come and go; and over the years, over  than 14 contributors have ended up publishing books because they were  “discovered” onbonjourparis.
at am library thursday 22 september  19h30
lz : what changes do you see in the business?
and  after all of these years,bonjourparis remains a site that continues to  provide information to our many longtime readers with the help of many others.
our premium members pay $34.95 a year for their  subscriptions and some perks.
most of the stories are  berlin-based and they'll be a reference to the tour de...., they'll be flashes  of each language.
rosa rankin gee: we came out with this very simple idea  together
but, as some of you know, my mother passed away recently, less than four months after being diagnosed with metastatic melanoma, and my normal fields of inquiry seem small and uninspiring.
and i thought of  the subtle ways in which she had smoothed our path and realized this was true.
the eden paradox is the first volume in the eden  saga.
interested parties should aca, info.aca@gmail.com.
i returned to find competition in blogs, true, but also a huge  community of people so passionate about writing about france that they  “published” their blogs even when their audience was a handful.
participants: your work will be displayed  onbest paris stories website + facebook + other sites!
her novella ‘the last kings of sark’ won shakespeare  & company’s international paris literary prize.
in the afternoon there will be the  regular critiquing workshop.
when it comes tobonjourparis
the bookclub: the last wednesday of every month at le  carmen, 34 rue duperré, paris 9th.
tariq ali, the obama syndrome at shakespeare and co sunday 25 september 13h00-19h00 open house at the library tours, demonstrations, activities for children.
a clip (see above) that jazz made in honor of obama's 2008 election caught  the eye of obama's campaign, which led to a meeting with charles rifkin, the us  ambassador to france.
we want to  publish good work.
pwn : do you have any advice for young writers and artists?
what do you have planned next?
registration forms for the geneva writers conference, february 3-5,  2012 will be available on our website and at workshops from november  onward.
richard zimler also wrote the screenplay for the slow mirror, a short  film which was awarded the best drama award at the new york city short film  festival in may of 2010.
not only did the french ignore the internet in those early days, they did not recognize online news providers and sites that provided original content as legitimate news sources.
spokenword’s format: 1.
a world-renowned expert on human reliability assessment, air traffic and nuclear safety, author barry kirwan applies his scientific knowledge about how human catastrophes occur to write thrilling science fiction.
we hope you enjoy them.
at times our editor invests significant time in coaching writers on internet writing techniques, which are different than writing for static print.
in the beginningbonjourparis was part of the internet from the day when aol first allowed everyday users, not just techhies using code, to communicate.
we have some advertising and are grateful for it; we like providing info (even in advertising) that helps our readers find the best answers to their specific wants and needs.
posted at 10:27 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (1) |  trackback (0)
“like most moralists he is secretly quite sadistic.
why it's been a success it that it's been a marriage of events that are normally far more stilted.
rosa : to be perfectly honest, i'm editor in chief  and...
jethro : to engage with interesting, creative, young people in the three cities.
when the washington star folded in august 1981, i'd made more money as an ongoing contributor that year than i've seen since in all of my years of being a journalist.
attention writers: the lady knows her business.
pwn : is solidism also a reproach to younger people who are moving away from the book's physical form?
lz : how do you apply your journalism skills to publishing bonjourparis?
lz : how do you recruit and keep talent?
advice for writers starting out today?
there were no templates for content management, which required us to hire professional code programmers.
google ads (pitiful but something is better than nothing) and unless you’re a sex site, forget about making real money.
(by the  way, if anyone has a car, i have a lot of books
she told me about two new projects she was launching with photographer-writer jethro turner: a literary magazine calleda tale of three cities and a “bookclub” in a paris bar called le carmen, where erstwhile strangers exchange books.
we want to publish good work.
each and every writer needs an editor and they must accept that our editors will change a story to enhance search engine optimization (seo) that increases the likelihood a story will draw readers—vitally important for both the writer andbonjourparis.
i continue to write my column,  news from france and occasional articles.
when technological advances such as apps, smartphones and digital readers became increasingly popular in the past 5 years or so, we were forced to look at functionality as well as site design because such innovations affect how readers view our content.
my (now deceased) husband earned considerably more money, but i had a far better time.
these have become for me urgent questions, but ones i don't want to bore my friends with.
presents the warsaw anagrams.
writerbarry kirwan's first novel, the sci-fi thriller the eden paradox.
lz : you are a political person, very abreast of current affairs, and yet you keep politics out ofbonjourparis.
and also we believe in  really specific things, you know?if you go on our website and click the  triangle, you can read more about it.
for now my thoughts turn to the notion of the "good" death and  the choices one must be ready to make to obtain it; to the medicare divide in  america (where 65+ are covered while 64- risk losing their home in case of  illness); to the insane--and lucrative--war against medical marijuana; to  the kindness of strangers; and to the difficult necessity of conducting  normal life, even if one doesn't feel like it.
for more information, www.chateaudelavigny.ch. please reserve  with sophie kandaouroff, chlavigny@hotmail.com.
this | save to del.icio.us« précédente | suivante
paris writers news: why the book club?
these have become for me urgent questions,  but ones i don't want to bore my friends with.
after moving to france in 1988, i didn’t have working papers, so i wrote for numerous print publications.
and it's been a way of bringing like-minded people together, meeting  really interesting bookish, creative, intelligent young people, so it's  perfect.
and after all of these years,bonjourparis remains a site that continues to provide information to our many longtime readers with the help of many others.
what language will a tale of three cities be published in?
raised in the infamous 9-3, jazz at 26 had already racked up credits at  universal and sony and founded his own communications company specializing in  musical design.
what are the characteristics you are looking for?
might one of these be the cover?
we were heavily promoted by both.
- joan devine, head of safety culture, faa "characters whose inner lives inform their decisions".
the position requires approximately  two days of work each month.
the reality is the writers who've influenced me most were journalists who took an interest in my writing and who became mentors.
rather than  sliding directly into everything being online and kindles, some young people  should at least stand up and say, there is value.
that's how i want to die.
there's alcohol involved, there's a far bigger crowd, there's music, there's djs.
at am library thursday 22rd september - 7pm jamie cat callan, author of french women don't sleep alone, will present and sign her most recent book bonjour happiness.
we consider all of this in choosing writers and proposed story topics.
at am library thursday 22rd september - 7pm jamie cat callan,  author of french women don't sleep alone, will present and  sign her most recent book bonjour happiness.
it's still a good useful thing to have.
garry and george clifford were friends and journalists who encouraged me when i was learning the craft.
in  january last year jazz and billon created "on air agency".
each receives a $500" marie houzelle hortense on  tuesday night peter orner occidental benjamin alire sáenz
some people do ask, "do we have to bring a book in english?"
bonjourparis has always been part of what’s new, which has required that we be very proactive and flexible to new developments in technology.
*** geneva writers conference february 3-5, 2012 program now posted with registration form *** best paris stories to celebrate the launch of the anthology may 29, 2012at
how, i asked a kind nurse who was helping us, can you bear to  do this,meaning to get close to people as they are dying.
rosa : because it's set in three cities of which the common language would be english and our editors are english, the magazine will be in english, but we want there to be a flavor of each city.
the best  travel writers possess curiosity, intelligence and the ability to anticipate  what a reader wants to know before they even know they need to know it.
fnac http://tinyurl.com/3tpq8n3 or from 10 august at shakespeare and company 37 rue de la bûcherie 75005 or at the trianon's café 80 bl.
the scene, they said, was terrific.
if you want to be a writer and have to live on what you earn,  don’t give up your day job until you are certain you can generate  sufficient income.
sor an idea of the man and his world see articles in the economist, nyt, guardian, le figaro, the daily telegraph, the independent and many, many more.
in one short short story, two children look on as  their mother faces a sudden life-threatening circumstance; and in another short  short, love, politics, and desperation intertwine in a brief love affair.
see here for submissions  guidelines.
rosa rankin gee: we came out with this very simple idea together and it's been a way of bringing like-minded people together, meeting really interesting bookish, creative, intelligent young people, so it's perfect.
she told me about two new projects she was launching with  photographer-writer jethro turner: a literary magazine  calleda tale of three cities and a “bookclub” in a paris bar called  le carmen, where erstwhile strangers exchange books.
the position requires approximately two days of work each month.
technorati tags: books, charles glass, events, geneva writers conference, jean lesieur, jeffrey greene, jim bitterman, paris digg
rather than sliding directly into everything being online and kindles, some young people should at least stand up and say, there is value.
i've been lucky in that i've been published in mainstream publications but the reason we started the magazine is that there are so many young people, young writers, artists who just haven't had that first step.
pwn : back to the magazine, a tale of three cities.
now in its 15th year, one of the major annual international competitions for short stories, microfiction, single poems, poetry collections, essays and articles; offers cash prizes as well as publication for the prize-winning writers in the collection, special edition of the new writer magazine each july.
when it comes tobonjourparis however, it gives me great satisfaction  that i still feel so passionate about living in and writing about france.
i don't see my job as working with death but as bringing people together.
pages : 432 book launch london 15 october 2011 6-7pm at the royal overseas league (rosl), over-seas house, park place, st james's street, london sw1a 1lr(nearest tube green park, near the ritz) posted at 17:12 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: book launch, literary events, london events, new books, sci-fi, thrillers digg
now in its 15th year, one of the major annual  international competitions for short stories, microfiction, single poems,  poetry collections, essays and articles; offers cash prizes as well as  publication for the prize-winning writers in the collection, special edition of  the new writer magazine each july.
"talent," says le figaro, "simplement du talent".
27 january 2012 paris writers news: literary events, readings, workshops in january 2012 paris writers news is back online in 2012 and eager to report new  publications and events in the english-language writing community in paris!
rosa : to be perfectly honest, i'm editor in chief and...
it is an excellent opportunity to hone professional editing skills and to gain a subject area of expertise, while making an essential contribution to a worthy cause.
first, people would not have submitted entries had they not perceived  themselves as writers, so it was a self-selecting group.
jethro and rosa: global domination.
when the washington star folded in august 1981, i'd made more money as an  ongoing contributor that year than i've seen since in all of my years of being  a journalist.
see their site for how to contribute and/or make purchases.
the registrar’s manual for detecting forced marriages, a novel about identity, immigration, love and marriage.
after a dut he entered a work-study (alternance) program at inseec bordeaux with the hope of founding a restaurant.
september 11  6 pm (geneva) : last evening of readings at the  château de lavigny.
changes over the last five years alone have taught us to adapt quickly to  change and be proactive when possible.
we’ve found some very good writers in the blogosphere and twitterverse.
geeta kothari, fiction editor,  kenyon review.
jethro turner the bookclub sounded like so much fun that i sent two young collaborators, eve zuckerman and nisha somwang, to investigate.
this is a volunteer position, a service to all  americans living abroad.
- sf author gary gibson.
a conventional book club in the english sense is  eight people in a living room talking about one book.
well, my brother said, i think i'd like it to be a surprise .
pwn : are there more french or english people who attend?
for review copies and interview requests, contact:  media@mitziszereto.com peter st john dawe’s novel “triple agent” , based on the gospel
our writers come and go; and over the years, over than 14 contributors have ended up publishing books because they were “discovered” onbonjourparis.
posted at 17:42 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: french life, paris, paris guide, top blogs, travel, writers digg this | save to del.icio.us last day for submissions to the cover contest for best paris stories !
if you want to be a writer and have to live on what you earn, don’t give up your day job until you are certain you can generate sufficient income.
we are in the process of deleting those that don’t make the grade and rewriting many that need improvement.
once  they've had that, they can go to other places.
i’m focused on the bigger  picture these days, such as expanding our readership, business and of course  maintaining my professional network built over “a few decades.”
lz : how important is it to you to follow your own instincts?
* an old friend and student of shamans said that when her time comes, she  would like her children to take her to a beautiful place, prop her up against a  tree and leave her to die alone in nature.
what kind of readership are you expecting?
odile hellier of the village voice bookstore in paris has had a strong  influence on my reading selections for the past 23 years, and reading a wide  range of style and authors i hope has made me a better writer.
today we focus more on presenting the news from france without editorializing.
100 euro prize plus publication as ebook cover for the winning artists.
kf : i’ve been doing it for a lot of years, which is  one of the reasonsbonjourparis has a real sense of community.
“she makes sandwiches out of things you don’t normally make sandwiches from, and likes simple adjectives, such as good and bad and fast.”
lz : can a writer learn style?
the best travel writers possess curiosity, intelligence and the ability to anticipate what a reader wants to know before they even know they need to know it.
excellent references in paris and us.
www.shakespeareandcompany.com    www.letrianon.fr spokenword blog at http://spokenwordparis.blogspot.com/ wednesday 7 september  19h30
(extract) "this  year’s favorite stories of the week demonstrate that literary excellence and intense emotional experiences  don’t depend on length.
kf : i could say paul theroux and so many other  great writers.
we’ve found some very good writers in  the blogosphere and twitterverse.
elaine sciolino new york times paris correspondent presents ‘la seduction: how the french play the game of life.’
according to john, has been published as a digital book  by amazon kindle   http://www.amazon.com/dp/b0052yxn6w my little paris by fany pechiodat susan tiberghien had a meanwhile article in the international herald
kf : a writer can learn style and technique but it  isn’t accomplished in a day.
the first installment (in english) will present piers' songwriting alongside the performance poetry of francesca beard, performing separately, then together to create new work on stage.
rosa : and we all want to see our names in print.
to continue the links between what we think are the  most interesting three cities in europe at the moment for culture.
and i go down on the record saying that.
aol was the leader, the french were not at all engaged in the internet (other than minitel) and anyone who searched aol travel for information about france found bonjourparis at aol keyword:
the reality is the writers who've influenced me most were  journalists who took an interest in my writing and who became mentors.
bud korengold was another generous mentor who opened doors in paris and beyond in his role as the head of information for the us embassy in paris.
www.shakespeareandcompany.com www.letrianon.fr spokenword blog at http://spokenwordparis.blogspot.com/ wednesday 7 september 19h30
for example, when organizations we work  with—such as google—change rules and policies we must respond in  kind.
103 rue julien lacroix métro  belleville expecting a crowd so - get there early if you want a seat!!!!
for now my thoughts turn to the notion of the "good" death and the choices one must be ready to make to obtain it; to the medicare divide in america (where 65+ are covered while 64- risk losing their home in case of illness); to the insane--and lucrative--war against medical marijuana; to the kindness of strangers; and to the difficult necessity of conducting normal life, even if one doesn't feel like it.
advice for writers: say what is essential, do not use  complex words when simple ones will convey the point and don’t stray from  your subject.
when  i was an interior designer in washington, dc, the editor of the sunday magazine home-life of the washington star asked me to do some  scouting.
posted at 14:25 in mysteries of france, paris writers news | permalink |  comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: french culture, french talent, music news, political news, presidential elections digg
born in america, richard zimler has  worked for many years as a journalist in thesan francisco bay area.
email ellen sugarman at lfrank88888@gmail.com or call at 06-3836-0545.
an excellent story, leaves the reader  craving more."
pwn : how did you get the word out about the book club?
praise for the eden paradox "the reader is pulled into an all too real future with  memorable men and women leading the way.
blake and his crew lead the last attempt to bring back good news.
how wonderful my mother was i will write one day, when i have the skill and art to bring her unlikely and most extraordinary virtues to life.
this | save to del.icio.us 09 september 2011 rosa rankin gee and jethro turner talk about a tale of three cities and  the bookclub at le carmen a couple months ago i had the pleasure of meeting rosa rankin gee  at the awards ceremony for the paris literary prize novella contest  graciously organized by shakespeare and company and the de  groot foundation.
on the positive side, writers who might not have been published before will have a chance to have their work read because it can be downloaded on demand.
they write from the borders »
this | save to del.icio.us politics, humor, literature, environment, and, in general the crazy goings on in france--these are the topics i relish writing about.
garry  and george clifford were friends and journalists who encouraged me when i was  learning the craft.
technorati tags: a tale of three cities, fun, jethro turner, le carment,  paris, paris literary prize, rosa rankin fee, shakespeare and company digg this | save to del.icio.us 05 september 2011 paris readings and events september 2011!
i hold journalist credentials issued by the french government ministry of foreign affairs and am a foreign press member.
rosa : that goes hand in hand with the magazine and it works on two levels: the fact that we really value printed press and we're not going to have any of the content of the magazine online because we think that really affects the way we read and digest something.
fnac  http://tinyurl.com/3tpq8n3 or from 10 august at shakespeare and company 37 rue  de la bûcherie 75005 or at the trianon's café 80 bl.
new voices, new  projects is a joint initiative between baw and aup - please see our website for  more  details: http://www.bilingualacting.com/index.php?lp=callforprojectsl projects  should be submitted to: newvoicesnewprojects@bilingualacting.com graphic designers: showcase your talent with a submission  to theebook cover contest for best paris stories, a collection of the winning  stories of the paris short story contest.
this month, news from the geneva writers conference, kartik singh, florence  valero, kristin espinasse, samantha dunn, jennifer l. scott, vahram muratyam,  charles wood, thomas huber, jean claude gautrand, john baxter, sarah meade,  jeffrey greene, barry kirwan, sheila kohler, best paris stories, charles glass,  margo berdeshevsky,  jim bitterman, jean lesieur, the american library in  paris, shakespeare and co, village voice, wh smith, nyu paris, wice, lionel  shriver, eugève nicole, the american club, beth epstein, cherie burns,  dimitri bechacq and more, if you have a new book or event in paris you'd like to announce, let me  know.
meanwhile back on earth, eden mission  analyst micah sanderson dodges assassins, and tries to work out who he can  trust, as he struggles in a race against time to unravelthe eden paradox.
jethro : poems will be published with side by side translations and the original in english but longer fiction will tend to be in english.
my favorite was the (now defunct) “expat abroad” column for the international edition ofusa today .
featuring mr. tony alberto rigettinias host and special guests from samizdat publishing and elsewhere!
aol was the  leader, the french were not at all engaged in the internet (other than minitel)  and anyone who searched aol travel for information about france found bonjourparis at aol keyword:
some people do ask, "do we have to bring a book in  english?"
george whitman of shakespeare and company, photo simon nofolk tributes poured in from all over the world for george whitman , founder of the iconic paris bookshop shakespeare and company and  extraordinary contributor to literary life far beyond the left bank.
rosa : i think it's really important to give young artists  a platform.
this | save to del.icio.us journalist, editor, blogger, publisher, businesswoman, talent scout, parisian and world traveler, karen fawcett is the president and founder of bonjourparis.com the definitive guide to paris.
other people told me: no pain.
they must be willing to work on their  writing as a craft and it’s not easy.
how does the good death differ from person to person, from one place to  another, from one age to another?
his day job is with e-books, but he also writes about food,  and about not-food.
they  were horrified and refused.
but this did not spare us deep and violent disagreements about how best to proceed in the choice between serenity and lucidity.
kf : today bonjourparis has an executive editor who oversees publication.
because bonjourparis is a well-known content site, many published authors and up-and-coming writers  have asked to be showcased on it.
tariq ali, the obama syndrome at shakespeare and co sunday 25 september  13h00-19h00 open house at the library  tours, demonstrations, activities for children.
paris writers news, best paris stories and other ongoing projects will resume in january, 2012.
bonjourparis had very little online competition.
literary events in paris (september 2011) monday 5th september - 7pm mary lou longworth  presents death at the chateau bremont at wh smith monday 5th sept, 9pm spokenword at cabaret populaire/culture  rapide.
as we go to  the digital age, there will be fewer books printed.
rosa : we have lots of projects on the go, me and this boy, which are not all necessarily literary, some of them are to be kept secret.
paris writers news, best paris stories and other ongoing projects will  resume in january, 2012.
but, no one’s instincts are infallible and it’s essential to listen to others— most especially as the industry is changing with such incredible rapidity.
at am library sunday, september 11, at 7h30  reading of play by gwyneth
writers (and most especially freelancers) will earn substantially  less than they would have earned 20 years ago.
others receive bonjourparis stories as they are posted at the site via rrs feed or via our facebook page.
i think you'll find we want to capture the essence of the city.
lz : what do you look for in a writer?
the last kabbalist of lisbon, hunting midnight, guardian of the dawn and the seventh gate form the ‘the sephardic cycle’ a group of inter-connected, but fully independent, novels.
portrait of a city by jean-claude gautrand paris versus new york: a tally of two citie s by vahram muratyam chronicles of old paris: exploring the historic city of light by john baxter a chateau in provence by charles wood an american provence by thomas p. huber gourmet paris on a shoestring by kristin dorman, nina louchard waking up in france by sarah meade posted at 12:04 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0)
lecture with the author, eugène nicole at bibliothèque françois mitterand 6:30 pm wed 11 january, 2012 lionel shriver best known for her novel, we need to talk about kevin, at the american library of paris 7:30 pm thursday, january 12th at 7pm village voice alba arikha discusses major/minor a memoir wed 18 january, 2012 – beth epstein presents her book collective terms: race, culture, and community in a state-planned city in france.
after moving to france in 1988, i didn’t have working papers, so i  wrote for numerous print publications.
jethro : print has a new value now as well because plenty  of people are writing for blogs but people are really struggling to get  printed.
first, people would not have submitted entries had they not perceived themselves as writers, so it was a self-selecting group.
my favorite was the (now defunct)  “expat abroad” column for the international edition ofusa today .
rosa : because it's set in three cities of which the  common language would be english and our editors are english, the magazine will  be in english, but we want there to be a flavor of each city.
i first had the pleasure of meeting karen nearly 25 years ago, in one of her previous incarnations (and mine).
just get it over with.
(special schedule, special foods…) kf : no, i wish i did.
the bookclub: the last wednesday of every month at le carmen, 34 rue duperré, paris 9th.
spokenword’s format: 1.
google ads (pitiful but something is better than  nothing) and unless you’re a sex site, forget about making real money.
her writing has appeared in the sunday telegraph, ireland's independent, canalstreet.canalplus.fr, bonjourparis.com and  le figaro in english.
september 12: creative writing workshop at the open university in paris sept 12th http://bit.ly/qjbshd 12 september: nikolai grozni, wunderkind (fiction, music) then flip grater (folk) at shakespeare and co sept 13 at 7 p.m. jeffrey greene will talk about french spirits and the golden bristled boar: last ferocious beast of theforest.
our subscriber base has gown over the years and is constantly expanding.
at village voice 19 september: bobbie ann mason, the girl with the blue beret  at shakespeare and co 20 september: dw brown, joanne baron, you can act at  shakespeare and co tuesday 20 september  19h30
rosa : i think it's really important to give young artists a platform.
this is a volunteer position, a service to all americans living abroad.
at times our editor invests significant time  in coaching writers on internet writing techniques, which are different than  writing for static print.
at the american library in paris: 7:30 pm january 19 cherie burns on her book searching for beauty--the  life of millicent rogers, the first comprehensive biography of the  standard oil heiress and fashion icon.
the first installment (in  english) will present piers' songwriting alongside the performance poetry of  francesca beard, performing separately, then together to create new work on  stage.
bro's favorite surprise death: fatal heart attack while sleeping with worst enemy's wife posted at 11:48 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (6) | trackback (0) technorati tags: blogging, death, grief, health care, medicare, metastatic melanoma, writing digg this | save to del.icio.us i am delighted to announce the launch of paris
paperback now available to order from all major booksellers amazon.com - amazon.co.uk - amazon.fr - barnes & noble - waterstones - blackwell's ask your local bookseller (distribution by gardners, ingram, bertrams and other major distributors)
eden’s trial and eden’s revenge coming soon.
posted at 16:32 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (0) |  trackback (0) technorati tags: beginning writers, books, creative writing, open  university, paris, writing workshop digg
what did you learn from the experience?
george whitman of shakespeare and company, photo simon nofolk tributes poured in from all over the world for george whitman , founder of the iconic paris bookshop shakespeare and company and extraordinary contributor to literary life far beyond the left bank.
posted at 14:25 in mysteries of france, paris writers news | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: french culture, french talent, music news, political news, presidential elections digg
flash: creative writing workshop at the open university in paris
he currently lives inportugal and has written several novels about generations of a portuguese jewish family.
--- rosa rankin gee, 24, graduated in modern languages last year and now lives in the 18e arrondissement, in an apartment with a bath in the kitchen.
lz : you are a political person, very abreast of current  affairs, and yet you keep politics out ofbonjourparis.
advice  for future contributors?
and i  personally read on a kindle and i go down on the record saying that.
advice for writers: say what is essential, do not use complex words when simple ones will convey the point and don’t stray from your subject.
i think you'll find we want to capture the essence of the  city.
a clip (see above) that jazz made in honor of obama's 2008 election caught the eye of obama's campaign, which led to a meeting with charles rifkin, the us ambassador to france.
participants: your work will be displayed onbest paris stories website + facebook + other sites!
(special schedule, special  foods…) kf : no, i wish i did.
8.30pm, 9.45pm and 11pm. 5.
we say no, we want to encourage people to bring as many  different books as possible.
many of those coming tonight have heard of the book club through jethro or rosa, who greet their friends but also people they didn't know.
there's alcohol involved, there's a far bigger crowd, there's  music, there's djs.
new website readers are asked to subscribe to the free newsletter, which is a double opt-in process.
i fought  forbonjourparis to be recognized as a serious news organization, and  subsequentlybonjourparis was the first internet site officially  recognized by the french government.
in the end there were many kind people, and my mother died in her home  surrounded by family.
when family emergencies forced me to take a break several years ago, i was unable to makebonjourparis my top priority.
they must be willing to work on their writing as a craft and it’s not easy.
presented by shakespeare and co, this is the first in a new series celebrating  spoken and sung word at le trianon inmontmartre.
i am proud of so many.
at am library sunday, september 11, at 7h30 reading of play by gwyneth hughes: a one-woman show called 'apple pie' with an excellent british actress, anna cottis.
kf :  writers really need to know their subject,  their readers’ needs and interests and have an original voice.
spokenword blog  at http://spokenwordparis.blogspot.com/ wednesday september 7 7.30pm piers faccini  and francesca beard, standing room at le trianon in montmartre paris.
an internship in  marketing at kaizen marketing group opened up a whole new world for him, an  "american vision of entrepreneurship" with bosses barely older than  himself.
new voices, new projects is a joint initiative between baw and aup - please see our website for more details: http://www.bilingualacting.com/index.php?lp=callforprojectsl projects should be submitted to: newvoicesnewprojects@bilingualacting.com graphic designers: showcase your talent with a submission to theebook cover contest for best paris stories, a collection of the winning stories of the paris short story contest.
i continue to write my column, news from france and occasional articles.
blake and his crew lead the  last attempt to bring back good news.
at wh smith 26 september:
jethro : poems will be published with side by side  translations and the original in english but longer fiction will tend to be in  english.
rosa : that goes hand in hand with the magazine and it  works on two levels: the fact that we really value printed press and we're not  going to have any of the content of the magazine online because we think that  really affects the way we read and digest something.
and these stories get picked up and repeated, according to our  site analytical reports.
together, these five stories represent vibrant work by  emerging and established writers.
at the american library iin paris 7:30 pm january 22, play reading of "public school" by kartik singh at carr's restaurant and pub with moving parts, 7:30 pm 1 rue du mont thabor, 75001 paris january 24 arthur phillips presents the tragedy of arthur.
eve zuckerman, 17, was the editor in chief of l’inébranlable, named best french high school newspaper  2011.
very  quickly, it becomes difficult to find people who have not been welcomed by one  or the other.
kf : writers really need to know their subject, their readers’ needs and interests and have an original voice.
she manages editors and writers who provide content  that meets professional journalistic standards.
rosa rankin gee only 24 years old, rosa had already been named one of esquire magazine's 75  brilliant young brits 2010 and had just won thenovella contest .
i told my children that's what i wanted, she said.
how wonderful my mother was i will write one day, when i have the skill and  art to bring her unlikely and most extraordinary virtues to life.
in the afternoon there will be the regular critiquing workshop.
and this is a lot looser,  more relaxed.
one thing led to another and the two young french entrepreneurs met.
;-) lz : what do you hope to achieve as a writer and a publisher?
photographer jennifer huxta on the intersection of imagery and poetry.
for example,  ralph, who's the berlin editor, writes short stories.
lz : how have you built a subscriber base?
praise for the eden paradox "the reader is pulled into an all too real future with memorable men and women leading the way.
at village voice 19 september: bobbie ann mason, the girl with the blue beret at shakespeare and co 20 september: dw brown, joanne baron, you can act at shakespeare and co tuesday 20 september 19h30
lydia manx, piker press "move over michael crichton!
when i was an interior designer in washington, dc, the editor of the sunday magazine home-life of the washington star asked me to do some scouting.
(geneva) american citizens abroad is in need of an editor-in-chief  for their newsletter.
if you have already registered, it is  noted.
in january last year jazz and billon created "on air agency".
" "congratulations to the winners.
bud korengold was another generous mentor who opened doors  in paris and beyond in his role as the head of information for the us embassy  in paris.
see paris nighlife goes literary for more submissions new voices, new projects is a paris-based platform for artists to exhibit and network innovative new projects that are already in development.
but, we’re always happy to be approached by more.
how do you intend to select content?
8.30pm, 9.45pm and 11pm.
via parisstoriescontest.blogspot.com posted at 12:04 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (0) |  trackback (0) technorati tags: books, cover design, ebooks, paris, short stories,  stories about france digg this | save to del.icio.us 12 september 2011 flash : hortense on tuesday night by marie houzelle honored by narrative  magazine we are delighted to announce that best paris  stories selection, marie houzelle's "hortense on tuesday night" was  named by narrative magazine intop five stories 2010-2011.
100 euro prize plus publication as  ebook cover for the winning artists.
** how does the good death differ from person to person, from one place to another, from one age to another?
the  atmosphere is very supportive of anyone having a go.
this | save to del.icio.us 10 august 2011
geneva writers conference february 3-5, 2012 program now posted with registration form best paris stories to celebrate the launch of the anthology may  29, 2012at
bonjour on the travel channel of aol and compuserve.
this | save to del.icio.us 07 december 2011
pwn :  is solidism also a reproach to younger people who are  moving away from the book's physical form?
his day job is with e-books, but he also writes about food, and about not-food.
--- rosa rankin gee, 24, graduated in modern languages last  year and now lives in the 18e arrondissement, in an apartment with a bath in  the kitchen.
(by the way, if anyone has a car, i have a lot of books
please send your registrations with the attached form, or directly in an email.
posted at 16:32 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: beginning writers, books, creative writing, open university, paris, writing workshop digg
advice for future contributors?
pwn : you invented a concept called solidism.
at am library sunday 11 september 15h00-16h30 special exhibit ‘a new yorker remembers 9/11’,share your memories of 9/11 with al herter—native new yorker and part-time paris resident.
103 rue julien lacroix métro belleville expecting a crowd so - get there early if you want a seat!!!!
born in america, richard zimler has worked for many years as a journalist in thesan francisco bay area.
a paid staff provided content.
jethro : i don't thing it's a reproach to young people in  any way, it's just the idea of suggesting that there are already positive  qualities to print and that it is the beauty of having physical objects and  beautiful printed books.
according to le figaro, united states president barak obama has chosen two french composers from bordeaux (yes, france!) to write his campaign theme song.
(isbn : 978-0-9823698-4-5)
jethro : print has a new value now as well because plenty of people are writing for blogs but people are really struggling to get printed.
no text messages please
i returned to find competition in blogs, true, but also a huge community of people so passionate about writing about france that they “published” their blogs even when their audience was a handful.
we say no, we want to encourage people to bring as many different books as possible.
these  pieces stand side by side with longer stories.
(see “paris nightlife goes literary ”)
karen fawcett : i fell into it though the back door.
eve zuckerman interview : rosa rankin gee, winner of shakespeare and company's paris literary prize for best novella, and jethro turner, co-founder ofa tale of three cities literary journal and the bookclub at le carmen, talk with eve zuckerman, forparis writers news.
de  rochechouart 75018, or at fnac.com.
deadline: september 30, 2011 news and calls for submissions from our friends in geneva (thank you susan tiberghien!)
sor an  idea of the man and his world see articles in the economist, nyt, guardian, le figaro, the daily telegraph, the independent and many, many more.
but this did not spare us deep and violent disagreements  about how best to proceed in the choice between serenity and lucidity.
you can get a lot of mileage out of it.
rosa, in addition to co-founding a tale of three cities, has also just won first prize for her novella, the ..... of sark.
i’d like to  donate…) sunday, january 8th, play reading visites by florence valero (in french) at carr's restaurant and pub with moving parts, 7:30 pm 1  rue du mont thabor, 75001 paris january 10  jim bitterman and jean lesieur on the  impact of the upcoming elections in france and the usa at the american library  in paris january 10 : lionel shriver, so much  for thatshakespeare and company 6 pm   orange prize–winner we need to talk about kevin, the post-birthday world, a perfectly good family, game control, double fault, the female of the species, checker and the derailleurs, and ordinary decent criminals wed 11 january, 2012 – paris - nyu paris -  « they write in english, they write in french.
not my personal life.
lz : you were a member of the editorial committee for the  paris short story contest.
featuring mr. tony alberto rigettinias host and special guests  from samizdat publishing and elsewhere!
at the american library of paris 7:30 pm january 25 sophie hardach presents her debut novel the  registrar’s manual for detecting forced marriages, a novel about  identity, immigration, love and marriage.
a world-renowned expert on human reliability assessment, air  traffic and nuclear safety, author barry kirwan applies his scientific  knowledge about how human catastrophes occur to write thrilling science  fiction.
posted at 10:27 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (1) | trackback (0) technorati tags: a tale of three cities, fun, jethro turner, le carment, paris, paris literary prize, rosa rankin fee, shakespeare and company digg this | save to del.icio.us this month, news from gioia diliberto, best paris stories, david barnes, tony alerbto rigettini, mitzi szereto, mary lou longworth, elaine sciolino, al herter, the open university, jeffrey greene, tatiana de rosnay, louis franke, jamie cat callan, new voices, new projects, ellen sugarman, mathhew rose, fany pechiodat and more new books paris without end: the true story of hemingway's first wife by gioia diliberto parisian postcards: snapshots of life in paris by loui franke red velvet and absinthe: paranormal erotic romance edited by mitzi szereto
the articles focused on profiles of people in their homes, and designers  and architects who realized their clients’ dreams.
it's really really good for certain things.
what  are your objectives with the magazine?
well, she said, you have to flip it.
i’m focused on the bigger picture these days, such as expanding our readership, business and of course maintaining my professional network built over “a few decades.”
and i personally read on a kindle
but, others had a lot of merit and could have been  excellent with editing.
all of us in paris are very fortunate that george's remarkable daughter sylvia continues shakespeare and company's outstanding tradition of dynamic and generous contribution to the literary arts.
bro's favorite surprise death: fatal heart attack while sleeping with  worst enemy's wife posted at 11:48 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (6) |  trackback (0) technorati tags: blogging, death, grief, health care, medicare, metastatic  melanoma, writing digg this | save to del.icio.us 13 october 2011
we've been in the new york times, we've been in all of the paris blogs.
the last kabbalist of lisbon, hunting  midnight, guardian of the dawn and the seventh gate form the ‘the  sephardic cycle’ a group of inter-connected, but fully independent,  novels.
jethro : i don't thing it's a reproach to young people in any way, it's just the idea of suggesting that there are already positive qualities to print and that it is the beauty of having physical objects and beautiful printed books.
flash: book launch of sci-fi thriller the eden paradox by barry kirwan,  london oct 15 i am delighted to announce the launch of paris
this | save to del.icio.us « précédente |  suivante » add me to your typepad people list subscribe  to this blog's feed categories
jethro turner, 24, also lives in the 18e, around the corner from rosa.
how did these two frenchmen with no connections seduce the president of the united states?
karen fawcett is accredited by the french ministry of the  interior as a member of the foreign press, a member of the public relations  society of america, the european- american press club, the french press club,  the national press club in washington, dc and was a founding member of the  american institute of wine and food’s paris chapter.
she manages editors and writers who provide content that meets professional journalistic standards.
- le monde des livres amazon.fr , fnac, gibert joseph subscribe in a reader paris writers news is back online in 2012 and eager to report new publications and events in the english-language writing community in paris!
we  are in the process of deleting those that don’t make the grade and  rewriting many that need improvement.
to continue the links between what we think are the most interesting three cities in europe at the moment for culture.
jethro turner, 24, also lives in the 18e, around the  corner from rosa.
she  greets her friend and immediately turns back to apologize and continue the  interview.
lz: what is your business model?
many of those coming tonight have heard of the book club through  jethro or rosa, who greet their friends but also people they didn't know.
this month, news from gioia diliberto, best paris stories, david  barnes, tony alerbto rigettini, mitzi szereto, mary lou longworth, elaine  sciolino, al herter, the open university,  jeffrey greene, tatiana de  rosnay, louis franke, jamie cat callan, new voices, new projects, ellen  sugarman, mathhew rose, fany pechiodat and more new books paris without end:
the english book launch and signing will take placeoctober 15 in london .
according togq.com, he is a photographer who knows how to dress.
what are your objectives with the magazine?
launch of offshoots (geneva) 11, at 17:00 to 19:30 , with readings and a reception.
the articles were 600-2000 words in length.
geeta kothari, fiction editor, kenyon review.
advice for writers  starting out today?
last day for submissions to the cover contest for best paris  stories !
tribune, airport chatter, july 7, best paris stories cover contest : deadline september 30 many thanks to tendayi chirawu for helping us launch the ebook  cover design contest!
bonjourparis has affiliate relations that generate a modicum of income.
trackback (0) technorati tags: best paris stories, marie houzelle, narrative, paris,  short shories, writers digg
at the american library of  paris 7:30 pm january 26, 7-8 pm wh smith, sheila kohler presents and signs  becoming jane eyre interview thu 26 january, 2012 – paris - nyu  paris - «the francophone americas: perspectives on haiti»
- joan devine, head of safety culture, faa "characters whose inner lives inform their decisions".
rosa rankin gee only 24 years old, rosa had already been named one of esquire magazine's 75 brilliant young brits 2010 and had just won thenovella contest .
after a dut he entered a work-study (alternance) program at  inseec bordeaux with the hope of founding a restaurant.
presented by shakespeare and co, this is the first in a new series celebrating spoken and sung word at le trianon inmontmartre.
her novella ‘the last kings of sark’ won shakespeare & company’s international paris literary prize.
he  has gone to be with the women sandra  scofield staph hortense on tuesday night will be published this fall in the best paris  storiescollection posted at 12:06 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (0) |
however, it gives me great satisfaction that i still feel so passionate about living in and writing about france.
kf : laurel, being on the editorial committee taught me a  lot.
i think it has been a happy marriage of giving weight to a  normal night out.
every business has what they define as limited resources and bp isn’t fodor’s nor is it a blog.
when the us invaded iraq, i expressed my opinion and we lost half of our subscribers in one fell swoop.
and i don't think we want to be prescriptive at all.
many thanks to the fine graphic artists for their excellent work:  william busch, micheal dekel, jonathan freedman, margo berdeshevsky, lee e.  shilo, naofimi hojin, pascal nocquet, lydia d'moch, ryssa mae allercon, sophie  ren, louisa gioffre suziki, bas zwigtman,  sarah nocquet, sharon watts,  and bob bouwense.
i hold journalist credentials issued by the french government ministry of  foreign affairs and am a foreign press member.
lz : how have you built a subscriber base?
(isbn : 978-0-9823698-4-5)
i am increasingly  proud of each and every article published, but this wasn’t always so.
a conventional book club in the english sense is eight people in a living room talking about one book.
lz : of all your achievements, of what are you most proud?
on the positive side,  writers who might not have been published before will have a chance to have  their work read because it can be downloaded on demand.
one person even told me that she found death interesting and wanted to experience it fully.
the atmosphere is very supportive of anyone having a go.
photographer jennifer huxta  on the intersection of imagery and poetry.
we find it's about 50-50 french and english speakers but then there are italians, germans, portuguese people, so we have a nice mix.
we are looking  to be struck by originality, creativity and talent.
kf : i’ve been doing it for a lot of years, which is one of the reasonsbonjourparis has a real sense of community.
the eden paradox is the first volume in the eden saga.
in a world beset by political turmoil, environmental collapse, and a  predatory new religion, a recently discovered planet, eden, is our last hope.
bonjourparis has affiliate relations that  generate a modicum of income.
but my plan now is to finish the novella, make it as good as i can and  then write a novel, probably set in paris, but not one with paris in the  title.
i’d like to donate…) sunday, january 8th, play reading visites by florence valero (in french) at carr's restaurant and pub with moving parts, 7:30 pm 1 rue du mont thabor, 75001 paris january 10 jim bitterman and jean lesieur on the impact of the upcoming elections in france and the usa at the american library in paris january 10 : lionel shriver, so much for thatshakespeare and company 6 pm orange prize–winner we need to talk about kevin, the post-birthday world, a perfectly good family, game control, double fault, the female of the species, checker and the derailleurs, and ordinary decent criminals wed 11 january, 2012 – paris - nyu paris - « they write in english, they write in french.
when the us invaded iraq, i expressed my opinion and we lost half of  our subscribers in one fell swoop.
what, i asked fellow caregivers and friends, is a good death?
well, what we have in common, the reason why our magazine worked at university [research] is that we have similar aesthetic depths.
i’ve also  been inspired by attending many authors’ readings.
as we go to the digital age, there will be fewer books printed.
acoustic songs: you get to do one whole song, 5 mins or even a bit longer.
not only did the french ignore  the internet in those early days, they did not recognize online news providers  and sites that provided original content as legitimate news sources.
the true story of hemingway's  first wife by gioia diliberto parisian postcards: snapshots of life in paris by loui franke red velvet and absinthe: paranormal erotic romance edited  by mitzi szereto
we said what our taste is clearly  in our manifesto and for us it's whether something is compatible with what we  think is good.
september 12: creative writing workshop at the open university in  paris sept 12th http://bit.ly/qjbshd 12 september: nikolai grozni, wunderkind (fiction, music) then flip  grater (folk) at shakespeare and co sept 13 at 7 p.m. jeffrey greene will talk  about french spirits and the golden bristled boar: last ferocious  beast of theforest.
writerbarry kirwan's first novel, the sci-fi thriller the eden paradox.
they were horrified and refused.
september 19h30 tatiana de rosnay, bestselling author of ‘sarah’s key,’ explores her new novel, ‘rose .’
but, others had a lot of merit and could have been excellent with editing.
but for exchanging ideas between friends  and swapping books, i don't think that it's going to take over.
how did these two frenchmen with no connections seduce the president of the  united states?
at carr's (i rue du mont thabor, metro tuileries).
enormous changes are unfolding now.
tatiana de rosnay, bestselling  author of ‘sarah’s key,’ explores her new novel, ‘rose .’
hughes: a one-woman show called 'apple pie' with an excellent  british actress, anna cottis.
at carr's (i rue du mont thabor, metro  tuileries).
every business has what they define as limited resources and bp isn’t  fodor’s nor is it a blog.
one of esquire  magazine’s 75 brilliant brits of 2010, rosa also foundedalight here  and the fun and beautiful journal.
pages : 432 book launch london 15 october 2011  6-7pm at the royal overseas  league (rosl), over-seas house, park place, st james's street, london sw1a  1lr(nearest tube green park, near the ritz) posted at 17:12 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (0) |  trackback (0) technorati tags: book launch, literary events, london events, new books,  sci-fi, thrillers digg
it's a great  way of accessing content but the printed book still has its place.
we said what our taste is clearly in our manifesto and for us it's whether something is compatible with what we think is good.
why it's been a success it that it's been a marriage of events that  are normally far more stilted.
rosa : we've been really lucky with pr.
but my plan now is to finish the novella, make it as good as i can and then write a novel, probably set in paris, but not one with paris in the title.
according to le figaro, united states president barak obama has chosen two  french composers from bordeaux (yes, france!) to write his campaign theme song.
my hope is that bonjourparis will be recognized as the foremost online magazine about france.
le carmen rosa : the least we can do is fight back.
de rochechouart 75018, or at fnac.com.
for review copies and interview requests, contact: media@mitziszereto.com
what, i asked fellow caregivers and friends, is a good  death?
so i am taking a little break.
posted at 17:42 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (0) |  trackback (0) technorati tags: french life, paris, paris guide, top blogs, travel,  writers digg
september 11 6 pm (geneva) : last evening of readings at the château de lavigny.
http://www.amazon.com/dp/b0052yxn6w my little paris by fany pechiodat susan tiberghien had a meanwhile article in the international herald tribune, airport chatter, july 7, best paris stories cover contest : deadline september 30 many thanks to tendayi chirawu for helping us launch the ebook cover design contest!
or: i want to talk to all my loved ones.
sign up on the night from 8pm 2.
jethro turner the bookclub sounded like so much fun that i sent two young  collaborators, eve zuckerman and nisha somwang, to investigate.
to learn more about american citizens abroad,   www.americansabroad.org prose and poetry prizes 2011, the new writer magazine, closing date  30 november.
but for exchanging ideas between friends and swapping books, i don't think that it's going to take over.
but, no  one’s instincts are infallible and it’s essential to listen to  others— most especially as the industry is changing with such incredible  rapidity.
it's a  lovely, warm, kind of wholesome idea.
rosa : if you're good, send your work to us!
cinderella rule: we finish atmidnight.
at the american library of paris 7:30 pm january 25 sophie hardach presents her debut novel
in a world beset by political turmoil, environmental collapse, and a predatory new religion, a recently discovered planet, eden, is our last hope.
open  til 4 du matin.
but two missions have already failed to return.
(geneva) american citizens abroad is in need of an editor-in-chief for their newsletter.
but, we’re always happy to be  approached by more.
please note that the workshops will exceptionally be atwebster university ,bellevue.
lz : do you have a special work regimen?
read his wsj and npr interviews here     world view: thursday, september 15th at 7pm richard zimmler
fast forward: i became an ongoing features/cover story contributor  who produced stories and entire editions for over three years.
we welcome  submissions that are multicultural, multilingual and multimedia.
her writing has appeared in the sunday telegraph, ireland's independent, canalstreet.canalplus.fr, bonjourparis.com and le figaro in english.
lz: what is your business model?
peter st john dawe’s novel “triple agent” , based on the gospel according to john, has been published as a digital book by amazon kindle
a writer can learn style and technique but it isn’t accomplished in a day.
kf : i am giggling here.
editing services author/journalist available to edit your fiction and non-fiction work.
blogging in a time of great sorrow politics, humor, literature, environment, and, in general the crazy  goings on in france--these are the topics i relish writing about.
my hope is that bonjourparis will be  recognized as the foremost online magazine about france.
i think it has been a happy marriage of giving weight to a normal night out.
and of course,  these things come down to a matter of taste.
put the story away and return later to tighten what you’ve  written.
we find it's about 50-50 french and english  speakers but then there are italians, germans, portuguese people, so we have a  nice mix.
registration forms for the geneva writers conference, february 3-5, 2012 will be available on our website and at workshops from november onward.
kf : laurel, being on the editorial committee taught me a lot.
many thanks to the fine graphic artists for their excellent work:
most of the stories are berlin-based and they'll be a reference to the tour de...., they'll be flashes of each language.
it is an excellent opportunity to hone professional  editing skills and to gain a subject area of expertise, while making an  essential contribution to a worthy cause.
it's  really really good for certain things.
that's how i want  to die.
interested parties should aca,  info.aca@gmail.com.
billon, also ridiculously young, is a case study in finding one's talents.
for booking and further details contact david on d.stephenson@open.ac.uk.
lecture with the author, eugène nicole  at  bibliothèque françois mitterand 6:30 pm wed 11 january, 2012 lionel shriver best known for  her novel, we need to talk about kevin,   at the american  library of paris 7:30 pm thursday, january 12th at 7pm village voice alba  arikha discusses major/minor a memoir wed 18 january, 2012 – beth epstein presents her book collective terms: race, culture, and community in a  state-planned city in france.
it's a great way of accessing content but the printed book still has its place.
raised in the infamous 9-3, jazz at 26 had already racked up credits at universal and sony and founded his own communications company specializing in musical design.
the ditty, entitled what's more, was written bytony jazz and mathieu billon, who, in addition to being young, very young, are immensely talented and energetic.
we have some advertising and are grateful for it; we like providing info  (even in advertising) that helps our readers find the best answers to their  specific wants and needs.
at am library the bookclub at the carmen : last weds of each month.
or: i  want to talk to all my loved ones.
new website readers are asked to subscribe to  the free newsletter, which is a double opt-in process.
we are looking to be struck by originality, creativity and talent.
here are the latest additions to the many excellent designs we have received from talented artists.
you’re right, i am  extremely political but i learned (the hard way) not to express my personal  beliefs.
other expos god & country | matthew rose new works on paper exhibition: 30 août –30 septembre 2011 storie | 20 rue delambre 75014 paris, france horaires: 15h00 - 20h00 tlj, sauf lundi métro: vavin/montparnasse/edgar quinet posted at 13:59 in paris writers news | permalink | comments (0) | trackback (0) technorati tags: books, literary events, paris, paris writers, readings, workshops digg this | save to del.icio.us the open university is running a creative writing workshop in paris for complete beginners - monday, 12th september, 6-8pm.
we  cultivate very good relationships with them.
spoken word (poetry, prose, stand up, anything): you get 5 minutes,  with a warning bell at 4.45 to let you know you have 15 seconds to finish.
each september "narrative" selects the top five  stories  for special notice.
elaine sciolino new york times  paris correspondent presents ‘la seduction: how the french  play the game of life.’
that’s a hard question.
her previous  incarnations (and mine).
an excellent story, leaves the reader craving more."
lz : what writers have influenced/inspired you the most?
paperback now available to order from all major booksellers amazon.com  -  amazon.co.uk  -  amazon.fr - barnes & noble  - waterstones - blackwell's ask your local bookseller (distribution  by  gardners, ingram, bertrams and other major distributors)
kf : today bonjourparis has an executive editor  who oversees publication.
tickets: 12€ presale / 15€ at the door.
karen fawcett laurel zuckerman : how did you get into journalism?
kf : i could say paul theroux and so many other great writers.
put the story away and return later to tighten what you’ve written.
not my  personal life.
couldn’t put it down!"
she greets her friend and immediately turns back to apologize and continue the interview.
i don't see my job as  working with death but as bringing people together.
each  and every writer needs an editor and they must accept that our editors will  change a story to enhance search engine optimization (seo) that increases the  likelihood a story will draw readers—vitally important for both the  writer andbonjourparis.
readings tobe followed by an apératif with the chance to speak with the resident writers.
read his wsj and npr interviews here world view: thursday, september 15th at 7pm richard zimmler presents the warsaw anagrams.
we do 2 or 3 rounds, starting at approx.
an internship in marketing at kaizen marketing group opened up a whole new world for him, an "american vision of entrepreneurship" with bosses barely older than himself.
in the end there were many kind people, and my mother died in her home surrounded by family.
i fought forbonjourparis to be recognized as a serious news organization, and subsequentlybonjourparis was the first internet site officially recognized by the french government.
we cultivate very good relationships with them.
a murder… a new planet mankind desperately needs… a thousand-year old conspiracy…
because bonjourparis is a well-known content site, many published authors and up-and-coming writers have asked to be showcased on it.
a few stories were immediate toss-outs.
we will be there for the full day.
billon, also ridiculously young, is a case study in finding  one's talents.
this | save to del.icio.us 01 october 2011 best paris stories cover contest, thank you graphic designers!
they write from the  borders »
we welcome submissions that are multicultural, multilingual and multimedia.
while my husband was sitting in meetings in different parts of the world, i was out meeting and doing and asking so many “none of my business” questions.
you’re right, i am extremely political but i learned (the hard way) not to express my personal beliefs.
the open university is running a creative writing workshop  in paris for complete beginners - monday, 12th september, 6-8pm.
this | save to del.icio.us who's got talent?
and this is a lot looser, more relaxed.