after hs2 is built, travellers will save just 35 minutes.
and in terms of over-crowding – this is usually only a problem  during peak hours.
is it really worth it?
– rory sutherland of course rory’s joking, but his main point is dead on.
it fascinates me that they think it’s ok to assign a monetary value to time saved by travellers – but then provide no explanation, reference or link to their model.
what you should in fact do is employ all of the world’s top  male and female supermodels, pay them to walk the length of the train, handing  out free chateau petrus for the entire duration of the journey.
why not incentivize travellers to use unpopular travel  times?
it hardly makes sense to spend that much money (and let’s be honest: the real costs will probably be much higher) just to shave of a few minutes.
bye czar you might have a point if speed was the justification, but its not – there is a need for capacity, and building a new line as a hsl makes the most economic sense.
in fact when i travel to the uk from holland, i choose the train whenever the tickets are exorbitant (biggest issue with trains) because i can do work on the journey.
this is rather disturbing.
my work involves a mix of user research and interaction design.
we need to think more obliquely  about ways to understand and solve the problem.
airlines have aggressively used variable ticket prices to their  advantage for years – why haven’t uk train companies?
one reason why buses score so badly is that waiting time at bus stops is penalized under the model.
it’s an interesting problem that surfaces more often than one would like to admit.
here’s another quote from  the network rail report (page 6): “the analysis in the new lines study uses the latest government  guidelines and modelling for calculating the benefits.
the problem should have been studied as a full policy analysis taking into account all other viable options, but in the hs2 case (as is this presentation), it was more done as a thing to tick off the list in order to justify the staggering expense.
this reminds me ofrory sutherland’s ted presentation, in which he talks about the vast cost of improving the rail line that linked london to the channel tunnel: “the question was given to a bunch of engineers, about 15 years ago, ‘how do we make the journey to paris better?’
now, call me mister  picky.
so far, it didn’t go well for the trains… i assume it will be the same in the uk this time.
this is a huge sum considering the uk’s current financial situation.
it currently takes 1 hour, 42 minutes to  get to birmingham.
this reminds me ofrory sutherland’s ted  presentation, in which he talks about the vast cost of improving the rail line  that linked london to the channel tunnel:
it includes  things like the value of the time saved by users [...]»
name (required) email (required) url (optional) comment notify me of followup comments via e-mail i'm harry brignull, user experience designer at clearleft in brighton.
airlines have aggressively used variable ticket prices to their advantage for years – why haven’t uk train companies?
let’s be honest, a train is never going to beat a passenger jet in a  race.
it is more the overall train experience that needs to be improved.
here is my naive advertising man’s  suggestion.
besides, instead of trying to reducetotal travel  time, we should start thinking about how to reduce dead time (i.e. time when you are unable to do anything useful).
here is my naive advertising man’s suggestion.
to top it off, let’s consider what kind of time-saving hs2 will give  a journey from london to birmingham.
we need to think more obliquely about ways to understand and solve the problem.
“the question was given to a bunch of engineers, about 15 years ago,  ‘how do we make the journey to paris better?’
a look on the new train proposals in the uk.
here’s another quote from the network rail report (page 6): “the analysis in the new lines study uses the latest government guidelines and modelling for calculating the benefits.
[...] now, you’ll still have about three billion pounds left in change, and people will ask for the trains to be slowed down!”
as you say, speed isn’t everything.
this is a huge sum considering  the uk’s current financial situation.
in fact, it reads far more like a sales pitch by the people who want to build the line.
now, call me mister picky.
to top it off, let’s consider what kind of time-saving hs2 will give a journey from london to birmingham.
so, they’re arguing that in order to compete with air travel, train  travel has to compete on speed, and that this is the main defining factor.
90 percent of everything : usability blog written by harry brignull trains, planes and dead time november 23rd, 2010 by harry brignull  •6 comments the uk government is currently working on plans for a new rail line, called  hs2, intended to connect london to birmingham, edinburgh, liverpool and  glasgow.
it’s fascinating to look at the case that’s been put forward by  network rail (see here) – you’d expect a carefully researched, well  argued case containing a clear investigation of many possible alternatives.
[...] this is a great illustration of narrow focus (usability, efficiency in particular) versus holistic view (user experience).
[...] trains, planes and dead time.
the uk government is currently working on plans for a new rail line, called hs2, intended to connect london to birmingham, edinburgh, liverpool and glasgow.
does an hour here or there make a big difference to that decision?
i care that my time is useful on the train and pretty much wasted in air travel.
it includes things like the value of the time saved by users [...]»
let’s be honest, a train is never going to beat a passenger jet in a race.
it fascinates me that they think it’s ok to assign a monetary value  to time saved by travellers – but then provide no explanation, reference  or link to their model.
why not incentivize travellers to use unpopular travel times?
here’s a interesting quote from page 5 (emphasis added): new routes would need to connect the major economic centres and provide  journey timesto rival air travel to make it viable.
yes, the uk needs new investment into the rail lines, but putting in two new slow speed lines will give far higher capacity at a lower cost.
and they came up with a very good engineering solution, which was to spend six billion pounds building completely new tracks from london to the coast, and knocking about 40 minutes off a three-and-half-hour journey time.
what you should in fact do is employ all of the world’s top male and female supermodels, pay them to walk the length of the train, handing out free chateau petrus for the entire duration of the journey.
to make trains more competitive compared to airplanes, pricing and service are much likely a more effective way to tackle the declining passenger numbers.
expensive, yes, but the cost will be spread over more than a decade.
now what is the hedonic opportunity cost on spending six billion pounds on those railway tracks?
the overall cost for the lines and rolling stock is estimated at a staggering £20.5 bn – £34 bn.
besides, instead of trying to reducetotal travel time, we should start thinking about how to reduce dead time (i.e. time when you are unable to do anything useful).
now what is the hedonic opportunity cost on spending six billion  pounds on those railway tracks?
speed is only one factor.
free, reliable,  high-speed wi-fi, power points and table space would help a lot in this  respect.
here’s a interesting quote from page 5 (emphasis added): new routes would need to connect the major economic centres and provide journey timesto rival air travel to make it viable.
related posts: the model that they would be using is called generalised cost which does take into account the quality of time.
so, they’re arguing that in order to compete with air travel, train travel has to compete on speed, and that this is the main defining factor.
but it strikes me as a slightly unimaginative way of improving a train journey merely to make it shorter.
it’s fascinating to look at the case that’s been put forward by network rail (see here) – you’d expect a carefully researched, well argued case containing a clear investigation of many possible alternatives.
and they came up with  a very good engineering solution, which was to spend six billion pounds  building completely new tracks from london to the coast, and knocking about 40  minutes off a three-and-half-hour journey time.
and in terms of over-crowding – this is usually only a problem during peak hours.
free wifi in stations and on trains, better seating organization in rush hours, less delays etc… all that would help a lot i believe.
the overall cost for the lines and rolling stock is estimated at a  staggering £20.5 bn – £34 bn.
we’d all love to rebuild the uk’s aging rail network, but if we can’t afford it right now, what else can we do to?
models and champaign… ok, that would definitly get me on a train
[...] now,  you’ll still have about three billion pounds left in change, and people  will ask for the trains to be slowed down!”
we’d  all love to rebuild the uk’s aging rail network, but if we can’t  afford it right now, what else can we do to?
by the time any great expenditure is needed the uk will be long out of recession.
in germany we had similar discussions about fast track trains connecting cities or cities with their airports.
in the past few years i've consulted for the guardian, haymarket, madgex, british airways, vodafone, o2 and many others.
hi harry, i mostly agree an your point of view.
for full details of the values used by the department of transport see here.
free, reliable, high-speed wi-fi, power points and table space would help a lot in this respect.
it currently takes 1 hour, 42 minutes to get to birmingham.
but it strikes me as a slightly  unimaginative way of improving a train journey merely to make it shorter.
is  it really worth it?
in  fact, it reads far more like a sales pitch by the people who want to build the  line.