musee d'orsay a far superior option is the musee d'orsay.
the wisest thing to do is fill your pockets with cheap, single fare tickets when you arrive at the eurostar terminus or the airport, and also grab a map of the colourful underground lines.
the tours kick off from rue edgar faure and a  major segway selling point is the elevated, celebrity spotting, vantage point  that these clever little devices offer.
the underground rail network in paris is cheap, safe and covers the  entire city without forking into an unmanageable mess.
in context you can visit and appreciate approximately ten attractions in two days.
to avoid this, buy a €2 map from the newspaper  stall when you exit the pere lachaise metro station.
the nearest metro station for this sky high wonder is montparnasse bienvenue and it's generally open between 10.30am and 11pm - all year round.
you also save even more money when  you buy a book of tickets from the electronic vending machines.
not only does this allow  you to cut through the pedestrianised tomb divisions, but it's also a nice  little memento of something a little bit different in paris.
every week you have a great skating tour which traverses the avenues of  paris.
the bikes also have that unbeatable amelie –esk quality with wicker baskets and silver bells, and they're also a cheaper alternative to the flash-packing segway.
the big boats of the bateaux-mouches company depart and  drop off at the port de la conference – not far from the eiffel tower.
this is the only sky scraper in paris and photos taken from its viewing deck include the tower.
on top of that  the clock tower café upstairs serves up delicious, affordable, fresh and  filling soups.
in context you  can visit and appreciate approximately ten attractions in two days.
i managed to pick groundhog day's andie macdowell out from the crowd on the bridge between the louvre and the musée d'orsay!
the two day, €30 museum pass therefore saves you two thirds of this and in certain situations, you get to queue jump too!
if you're on a super tight budget then skip it, but if you're after some sex and the city-esk nostalgia, then give it a go.
on top of that the clock tower café upstairs serves up delicious, affordable, fresh and filling soups.
it's an icon, it was never meant to be a permanent feature and the hourly evening light shows are a very pretty sight to behold, but this aside, the eiffel tower is a complete waste of money and the views aren't that great.
- the louvre the louvre is possibly the world's most well known museum and definitely the most visited historical repository on the planet.
it's not as clean as the london underground but at €1.60 for a single ticket to anywhere in the city, who wouldn't get a little bit dirty?
public transport in paris
top 10 things to do in paris
it is impressive but like most  internationally infamous exhibits, it's crowded, over-protected by over-eager  security staff and ruined by the erratic and unpredictable walking patterns of  pedestrian tourists.
i managed to pick groundhog day's andie  macdowell out from the crowd on the bridge between the louvre and the  musée d'orsay!
"st christopher's" and "belushi's" are trading names and registered trade marks of beds & bars limited.
a cheaper alternative with a better view is the tour  montparnasse.
add to that the army of citroens driven by the legions of cemetery attendants and you have a recipe for stress.
the top attraction is the eyebrow-less beauty – mona  lisa, but it's hard to appreciate this masterpiece when you have to stand in  line for ten minutes, squint through the glass screen and compensate for the  never-ending flash photography.
- public transport in paris
if you're a -  cram it all into a couple of hours - kind of backpacker then you might want to  check out the french equivalent to the popular wednesday night skates around  london.
being a pedestrian spectator in  this city centre closing situation wasn't much fun, so it's best to be a part  of it or avoid the skates completely - on fridays and sundays.
on a good day you're looking at a one and a half hour queue, a fifteen minute ascent and a crowded viewing platform - which gets a bit steamed up in the winter months.
this is the only sky scraper in paris and photos taken from its  viewing deck include the tower.
- wheel deals the segway was meant to revolutionise the way we lived, reduce the need for walking and reclaim the streets for car-less citizens.
the average price of these attractions works out at about €9 each - so ten multiplied by nine gives you the travel budget draining total of €90.
it's a big place and therefore easy to get lost in.
these two, four and six day passes were put together by the paris  tourism office and they get you into more than sixty museums and monuments in  the french capital.
add to that an eternally cheerful and enthusiastic head office and you're laughing.
monet and manet go head to head with toulouse lautrec in the  visually impressive leagues and ferdinand hodler holds his own in a slightly  more adult and disturbing insight, into turn of the century art.
pere lachaise going out of your way to make a cemetery part of your tourist trip  might seem a little morose but the pere lachaise is worth breaking the mould  for.
give your friends a chance  to read this article: send this to your friend - digg this - stumble upon -   del.icio.us - share on facebook - add this to technorati!
on a good day you're looking at a one and a half hour queue, a fifteen minute  ascent and a crowded viewing platform - which gets a bit steamed up in the  winter months.
if you've seen the infamous online video of paris hilton falling off a segway and you don't fancy doing the same in her namesake city, then fear not because there are bike tours on offer too.
this peaceful plot in the east of the city is the final resting place of  mr oscar wilde, jim morrison, delacroix and a stunning mix of historically  significant figures.
the architecture of this former train station is equally grand to that of the louvre and the collection includes an eye opening line up of impressionist masterpieces.
if you're a museum junkie and want to enjoy the louvre, the musee  d'orsay and then some – then it's certainly worth investing in a paris  museum pass.
to avoid this, buy a €2 map from the newspaper stall when you exit the pere lachaise metro station.
the fat bike tours set off from the same location and take in the sites at a slightly more leisurely and less technologically advanced pace.
not only does this allow you to cut through the pedestrianised tomb divisions, but it's also a nice little memento of something a little bit different in paris.
the fat bike tours set off from the same  location and take in the sites at a slightly more leisurely and less  technologically advanced pace.
it's not as clean as the  london underground but at €1.60 for a single ticket to anywhere in the  city, who wouldn't get a little bit dirty?
add to that an eternally  cheerful and enthusiastic head office and you're laughing.
the underground rail network in paris is cheap, safe and covers the entire city without forking into an unmanageable mess.
it'll take you a little while to get your centre of  balance accustomed to this pressure sensitive propulsion, but when you get  going there's nothing like it.
the tour takes you up stream as far as quai d'austerlitz , circles back around  notre dame, down to the mini statue of liberty on the pont de grenelle and then  back to base – past the eiffel tower.
- pere lachaise going out of your way to make a cemetery part of your tourist trip might seem a little morose but the pere lachaise is worth breaking the mould for.
the average  price of these attractions works out at about €9 each - so ten multiplied  by nine gives you the travel budget draining total of €90.
it'll take you a little while to get your centre of balance accustomed to this pressure sensitive propulsion, but when you get going there's nothing like it.
the nearest metro station for this sky high  wonder is montparnasse bienvenue and it's generally open between 10.30am and  11pm - all year round.
- the rest for less if you're a museum junkie and want to enjoy the louvre, the musee d'orsay and then some – then it's certainly worth investing in a paris museum pass.
these emission-less transporters didn't quite take the world by storm but they have become quite popular among tourists on the streets of paris.
the bikes also have that unbeatable amelie  –esk quality with wicker baskets and silver bells, and they're also a  cheaper alternative to the flash-packing segway.
conveniently  these dish out instructions in a variety of languages!
every week you have a great skating tour which traverses the avenues of paris.
- home page - special deals - london hostels - prague hostels - edinburgh hostels - amsterdam hostels - berlin hostels - bruges hostels - brighton hostels - bathhostel - newquay hostels - paris hostels - group bookings - budget hotels & apartments you are here: backpacker resources > travel tips >
a cheaper alternative with a better view is the tour montparnasse.
the louvre the louvre is  possibly the world's most well known museum and definitely the most visited  historical repository on the planet.
the wisest thing to do  is fill your pockets with cheap, single fare tickets when you arrive at the  eurostar terminus or the airport, and also grab a map of the colourful  underground lines.
the tours kick off from rue edgar faure and a major segway selling point is the elevated, celebrity spotting, vantage point that these clever little devices offer.
if you're on a super tight budget  then skip it, but if you're after some sex and the city-esk nostalgia, then  give it a go.
- bateaux mouche boat trips along city centre rivers are usually accompanied by a sky high price tag but refreshingly - that's not the case in paris.
you are here: backpacker resources > travel tips >  top 10 things to do in paris top 10 things to do in paris wheel deals the segway was meant to  revolutionise the way we lived, reduce the need for walking and reclaim the  streets for car-less citizens.
these two, four and six day passes were put together by the paris tourism office and they get you into more than sixty museums and monuments in the french capital.
it's an icon, it was never meant to be a permanent feature and the  hourly evening light shows are a very pretty sight to behold, but this aside,  the eiffel tower is a complete waste of money and the views aren't that great.
bike tours if  you've seen the infamous online video of paris hilton falling off a segway and  you don't fancy doing the same in her namesake city, then fear not because  there are bike tours on offer too.
bateaux mouche boat trips along city centre rivers are usually accompanied by a sky high price  tag but refreshingly - that's not the case in paris.
degas is a favourite front runner and if you're a fan of the belle époque then this is a true treat.
a far superior option is the musee d'orsay.
-  rob savage sharing is caring!
degas is a  favourite front runner and if you're a fan of the belle époque then this  is a true treat.
you also save even more money when you buy a book of tickets from the electronic vending machines.
monet and manet go head to head with toulouse lautrec in the visually impressive leagues and ferdinand hodler holds his own in a slightly more adult and disturbing insight, into turn of the century art.
top 10 things to do in paris top 10 things to do in paris - rob savage sharing is caring!
conveniently these dish out instructions in a variety of languages!
i accidentally encountered several thousand skaters on their sunday jaunt – complete with a police escort.
the architecture of this former  train station is equally grand to that of the louvre and the collection  includes an eye opening line up of impressionist masterpieces.
if you're a - cram it all into a couple of hours - kind of backpacker then you might want to check out the french equivalent to the popular wednesday night skates around london.
top 10 things to do in paris - home - make a booking - youth hostels - cheap hotels - youth hostels maps - live your life e-zine - backpacker resources - bars & coffee shops - about us - press inquiries - contact & feedback - terms & conditions - site map © 2003 - 2012 beds & bars limited.
the two day,  €30 museum pass therefore saves you two thirds of this and in certain  situations, you get to queue jump too!
add to  that the army of citroens driven by the legions of cemetery attendants and you  have a recipe for stress.
the big boats of the bateaux-mouches company depart and drop off at the port de la conference – not far from the eiffel tower.
i'd recommend a two day pass for €30.
yes it's an automated commentary in several million languages and yes, this cuts down the historical narrative to the bare minimum, but for €9 (€6 with concessions) you can't really complain.
the tour takes you up stream as far as quai d'austerlitz , circles back around notre dame, down to the mini statue of liberty on the pont de grenelle and then back to base – past the eiffel tower.
these emission-less transporters didn't quite  take the world by storm but they have become quite popular among tourists on  the streets of paris.
this peaceful plot in the east of the city is the final resting place of mr oscar wilde, jim morrison, delacroix and a stunning mix of historically significant figures.
being a pedestrian spectator in this city centre closing situation wasn't much fun, so it's best to be a part of it or avoid the skates completely - on fridays and sundays.
it is impressive but like most internationally infamous exhibits, it's crowded, over-protected by over-eager security staff and ruined by the erratic and unpredictable walking patterns of pedestrian tourists.
yes it's an automated  commentary in several million languages and yes, this cuts down the historical  narrative to the bare minimum, but for €9 (€6 with concessions) you  can't really complain.
give your friends a chance to read this article: send this to your friend - digg this - stumble upon - del.icio.us - share on facebook - add this to technorati!
the top attraction is the eyebrow-less beauty – mona lisa, but it's hard to appreciate this masterpiece when you have to stand in line for ten minutes, squint through the glass screen and compensate for the never-ending flash photography.
i accidentally encountered several thousand skaters on their sunday  jaunt – complete with a police escort.