option b (view details)
[upgradeprice] st  ermin's hotel london (london) st.  ermin's hotel london is located in a quiet corner of westminster and boasts the  edwardian style of elegance and comfort.
the hotel is newly furnished and spacious.
villa montparnasse (paris) discover the converging trails of peaceful lanes, animated streets, and main avenues that make up this district where students of the latin quarter like to stroll, where the paris intellectuals and artists settle, and where many famous people chose to rest.
duration: approx 4 hours and 45 minutes.
option d (view details)
le littre (paris) discover the city's luxury boutiques and unique character when you stay at  le littre.
situated on the left bank of paris, near saint germain des  pres, this hotel offers rapid access to the city's most famous monuments.
st  ermin's hotel london (london) st.  ermin's hotel london is located in a quiet corner of westminster and boasts the  edwardian style of elegance and comfort.
spend time with your loved one with this special to london and paris.
the lobby is beautiful and spacious
the reception area is large with modern furniture; it has a stylish staircase spiraling up to the breakfast room on the first floor.
with a large, double staircase.
duration: 3 hours departure: departs from the grosvenor victoria hotel at 7:00pm daily except tuesday & thursday - april through october and wednesday, friday & sunday - november through march royal london morning tour highlights: private tour of the tower of london before it opens to the public with yeoman warder.
some foreign authorities require fees at arrival or departure that must be collected directly from the passengers at the airport.
[upgradeprice] flemings mayfair hotel (london) located in the heart of mayfair, flemings mayfair is an  elegant georgian townhouse hotel located on a quiet side street, just off  piccadilly.
duration:approximately 1 hour and 45 minutes departures: daily year round except for tuesdays and special events illuminations of paris by minibus highlights: you will be escorted by our driver-guide for a minibus tour (about 1 1/2 hours) of paris at night with all its attractions and monuments wonderfully lit.
pavillon italie (kremlin bicetre)
pavillon italie is a five-story hotel located in southern paris along the boulevard peripherique, 10 minutes (2.5 miles) from the city center, which is a 15-minute metro ride.
[upgradeprice] my place hotel (london) my place hotel, housed in an elegant, victorian-style building, is located  on a quiet street in the popular earl's court neighborhood.
hotels that are on request may not be available and a comparable alternate will be offered.
airline-imposed baggage fees may apply and be due at the airport; please consult your airline prior to departure for the latest fees.
upgrade prices are per person for the package.
all airline related taxes and fuel surcharges are included.
st ermin's hotel london (london) st. ermin's hotel london is located in a quiet corner of westminster and boasts the edwardian style of elegance and comfort.
[upgradeprice] st ermin's hotel london (london) st. ermin's hotel london is located in a quiet corner of westminster and boasts the edwardian style of elegance and comfort.
pricing from departure & passenger details land only select departure city select class no preferenceeconomypremium economybusinessfirst departure date return date extend return?
situated on the left bank of paris, near saint germain des pres,  this hotel offers rapid access to the city's most famous monuments.
daily except tuesday and thursday; closed dec. 25, 26 & jan 1; departs 8:15am thru march 31, 2012; 8:00am april 1, 2012-march 31, 2013 paradis latin - champagne revue 9:30pm highlights: enjoy the colorful revue "paradis a la folie" and a half bottle of champagne at paradis latin.
tour start date your current return flight date: select your new return flight date: note:
select available date october 2011 february
[upgradeprice] my place hotel (london) my place hotel, housed in an elegant, victorian-style building, is located on a quiet street in the popular earl's court neighborhood.
the staff is friendly and professional.
take in the amazing view of paris from atop the eiffel tower or taste a warm baguette from a local boulangerie.
the staff is friendly  and professional.
flemings mayfair hotel (london) located in the heart of mayfair, flemings mayfair is an elegant georgian townhouse hotel located on a quiet side street, just off piccadilly.
buckingham palace as well as other notable sights are within  walking distance, making sightseeing easily accessible to guests.
complimentary tea and coffee are available in  the lobby throughout the day.
villa montparnasse (paris)
the lobby is beautiful and spacious with a large, double staircase.
my account | shopping cart | help center book online, or call us (800) 227-3235 follow us top deals | trip builder | group travel | travel guide | blog | sightseeing vacation packages by destination europe austria belgium croatia czech republic denmark finland france germany greece hungary iceland ireland italy netherlands norway poland portugal spain sweden switzerland turkey united kingdom africa egypt south africa asia china hong kong thailand central america costa rica south america argentina brazil chile peru by interest cruising culture & history escorted tours events food & wine holidays honeymoon & romance multi city rail vacations self drive vacations trips of a lifetime london & paris valentine's special from $1349* package inclusions itinerary travel options & tours reviews destination notes air and land price from $1349* land price from $1349* two of the most romantic and charismatic cities in one package!
situated on the left bank of paris, near saint germain des pres, this hotel offers rapid access to the city's most famous monuments.
prices are per person, based on double occupancy, and are subject to change prior to purchase.
age --234567891011 adults --123 children --1 age --234567891011
discover the converging trails of  peaceful lanes, animated streets, and main avenues that make up this district  where students of the latin quarter like to stroll, where the paris  intellectuals and artists settle, and where many famous people chose to rest.
view changing of the guard at buckingham palace and panoramic tour with viewing of houses of parliament,trafalgar square and a thames river cruise.
this extends the return flight only, not the hotel(s).
pavillon italie (kremlin bicetre)
it is decorated in  period decor and is well kept.
option a ( view details)
discover the  converging trails of peaceful lanes, animated streets, and main avenues that  make up this district where students of the latin quarter like to stroll, where  the paris intellectuals and artists settle, and where many famous people chose  to rest.
le littre (paris) discover the city's luxury boutiques and unique character when you stay at le littre.
jack the ripper evening tour highlights: retrace the steps of the worlds most famous serial killer - jack the ripper!
this tour includes the pick-up and the return at your hotel by minibus.
continue home | group travel | travel guide | activities | media | help center | privacy | travel insurance | terms & conditions | contact us | site map | about us | baggage fees *
complimentary tea and coffee are available in the lobby throughout the day.
the tour includes a drive through london's east end.
departure: april-october: daily; november-march :
option c (view details)
comfort hotel gare de  l'est (paris) with 57 rooms and a  continental breakfast every morning, this hotel is ideal for the budget  travelers looking for a quiet and comfortable stay during their paris visit.
save time and money by pre-booking your sightseeing tours before you travel.
central park hotel (london) central park hotel is superbly located in the residential area of bayswater near hyde park and kensington gardens.
celebrate each other with this fantastic vacation package to london and paris!
optional drink inside the sherlock holmes pub.
the  hotel is newly furnished and spacious.
it is decorated in period decor and is well kept.
inclusions roundtrip air on available air carrier 3-night hotel accommodations in london 3-night hotel accommodations in paris continuing flight between cities roundtrip transfers between cities romantic river cruises in london and paris continental breakfast daily hotel taxes and service charges itinerary view itinerary map itinerary map view itinerary travel options check out our optional sightseeing.
pavillon italie is a  five-story hotel located in southern paris along the boulevard peripherique, 10  minutes (2.5 miles) from the city center, which is a 15-minute metro ride.
hear about the gruesome deaths that took place in whitechapel at the end of the 19th century.
[upgradeprice] central park hotel (london) central park hotel is superbly located in the residential area  of bayswater near hyde park and kensington gardens.
central park hotel (london) central park hotel is superbly located in the residential area of  bayswater near hyde park and kensington gardens.
villa montparnasse  (paris)
le littre (paris) discover the city's luxury boutiques and unique character when you  stay at le littre.
buckingham palace as well as other notable sights are within walking distance, making sightseeing easily accessible to guests.
copyright © 2011 go-today softrip cms version 1.11.11.18710
sun mon tue wed thu fri sat 1 $* sold out 2 $* sold out 3 $* sold out 4 $* sold out 5 $* sold out 6 $* sold out 7 $* sold out 8 $* sold out 9 $* sold out 10 $* sold out 11 $* sold out 12 $* sold out 13 $* sold out 14 $* sold out 15 $* sold out 16 $* sold out 17 $* sold out 18 $* sold out 19 $* sold out 20 $* sold out 21 $* sold out 22 $* sold out 23 $* sold out 24 $* sold out 25 $* sold out 26 $* sold out 27 $* sold out 28 $* sold out 29 $* sold out select option ...
flemings mayfair hotel (london) located in the heart of mayfair, flemings mayfair is an  elegant georgian townhouse hotel located on a quiet side street, just off  piccadilly.
wander the streets of london, where royalty still exists and famous monuments abound.
pavillon italie  (kremlin bicetre)
rooms 1234 adults 123
the reception area is large with modern  furniture; it has a stylish staircase spiraling up to the breakfast room on the  first floor.
[upgradeprice] central park hotel (london) central park hotel is superbly located in the residential area of bayswater near hyde park and kensington gardens.
loading hotels ... option a ( view details)
age --234567891011 adults --123 children --1
discover the converging trails of peaceful lanes, animated streets, and main avenues that make up this district where students of the latin quarter like to stroll, where the paris intellectuals and artists settle, and where many famous people chose to rest.
villa  montparnasse (paris)
the  reception area is large with modern furniture; it has a stylish staircase  spiraling up to the breakfast room on the first floor.
comfort hotel gare de l'est (paris) with 57 rooms and a continental breakfast every morning, this hotel is ideal for the budget travelers looking for a quiet and comfortable stay during their paris visit.
[upgradeprice] flemings mayfair hotel (london) located in the heart of mayfair, flemings mayfair is an elegant georgian townhouse hotel located on a quiet side street, just off piccadilly.
duration: 1.5 hours departure: nightly all year round reviews destination notes all packages are subject to availability at time of booking.
pavillon italie is a five-story hotel located in southern paris  along the boulevard peripherique, 10 minutes (2.5 miles) from the city center,  which is a 15-minute metro ride.
in paris, the champs-elysees is a beautiful tree-lined avenue with many designer boutiques, cafes, and cinemas for tourists to enjoy.
comfort  hotel gare de l'est (paris) with 57  rooms and a continental breakfast every morning, this hotel is ideal for the  budget travelers looking for a quiet and comfortable stay during their paris  visit.