how your railpass works single country -single country - britain france ireland portugal spainbenelux chunnel germany italy scandinavia switzerland - eastern europe passes - all country passes - rail & drive passes - point to point tickets - seat reservations - night train reservations - how to order - order hostel card w/pass - railpass index - e-mail tercmele@aol.com or call (808)-395-2083 or toll free: 1 877 581-6594 foradditional information.
jan 09 pass type adult 1st cl.
contact terc at: toll free 1 877 581 6594 or 808 395-2083 or e-mail: tercmele@aol.com.
e-mail:  tercmele@aol.com order tickets by phone phone terc  808 395-2083 day trip to london you can choose to do london on your own with an unescorted tour which  includes london's  "hop on hop off" tour bus all day voucher + a  cruise on the river thames..
you get: --eurostar roundtrip from paris to london, which includes hot meal and refreshments served at seat in 1st class.
thames cruise for 50 minutes.
day trip to london see london without checking out of your paris hotel make your trip to france even better with a day trip to london!
you get: --eurostar roundtrip from paris to london, which includes hot meal  and refreshments served at seat  in 1st class.
there, you'll meet a golden tours representativeat the main concourse welcome desk .your representative will exchange your voucher for a welcome pack.
round trip + hop on hop off bus voucher$42 =
passports are required and some travelers may need a visa.
you should ensure that you arrive at the eurostar check-in area at least 45 minutes before your scheduled departure time.
( feel free to "ask mele" about sight seeing on your own.
pass - flexi pass - party pass - free family passes - britrail plus ireland - britrail plus car - freedom of scotland - travelpass - freedom of wales
feel free to "ask mele" about sight seeing on your own.)
please note: prices are per/person rt.
half escorted -eurostar chunnel tickets more britain tours & passes city passes - stonehenge + bath tour - the bath pass - edinburgh day tour - good friday bus tours - for 28 different cities in britain - london museum pass - + excursions & services - london visitor travelcard - bus and subway pass + add-ons - london city cruises - original london - sightseeing tour transportation passes - heathrow express - gatwick express - london visitor travelcard - bus and subway pass + add-ons - britrail pass menue - days out of london pass - consecutive day
round trip + hop on hop off bus  voucher$42 = $146  also available first cl for as low as $254 usd  including bus.
contact terc at: toll free 1 877 581 6594 or 808 395-2083 or e-mail:
in londons: on arrival enjoy an open top bus tour of london with the "open tour".
enoy the freedom of a day traveling independently on the eurostar chunnel train  and see the wonderful sights of this unforgettable city at your leisure.
hop on and off as often as you please and see london at your own pace.
your day trip to london will begin early at paris's gare du nord international station where you will meet your guide and board the eurostar train.
your day trip to london will begin early at  paris's gare du nord international station where you will meet  your guide and board the eurostar train.
enoy the freedom of a day traveling independently on the eurostar chunnel train and see the wonderful sights of this unforgettable city at your leisure.
you will arrive in the heart of  london in 2 hours 40 minutes.
train travel · rail pass index · car rentals · readers transportation tips · travel tips · home
e-mail: tercmele@aol.com order tickets by phone phone terc 808 395-2083 day trip to londonday trip to london you can choose to do london on your own with an unescorted tour which includes london's "hop on hop off" tour bus all day voucher + a cruise on the river thames..
train departs london waterloo at 6:56pm (mon-fri), 6:11pm (sat).
we recommend taking your own picnic in standard class (british for "2nd cl") --unescorted open top bus tour (hop on and off) in london --50-minute cruise on the thames river conditions: you need to arrive at paris nord station at 6:30am.
easy day trip to london + price information what you get: itinerary conditions: cheaper on your own: see round trip eurostar tickets as low as $104 2nd cl
prices are in u.s. dollars and are subject to change.
e-mail tercmele@aol.com  or call (808)-395-2083 or toll free: 1  877 581-6594 foradditional information.
we recommend taking  your own picnic in standard class (british for "2nd cl") --unescorted open top bus tour (hop on and off) in london --50-minute cruise on the thames river conditions: you need to arrive at paris nord station at 6:30am.
unescorted day trip to paris $470 ask $310 ask *available: monday thru saturday departs 6:30 am return to paris at 10:23pm package includes: journey to london: journey to and from londons.
it takes just 3 hours with train speed reaching up to 186mph and passing en route, through the 31 mile-long channel tunnel.
day trip to londonday trip to london see london without checking out of your paris hotel make your trip to france even better with a day trip to london!
travel insurance is strongly recommended.
easy day trip tour to london from paris other tours - day tours to paris from london - simply paris tour - splendor of paris
above prices are space available.
tour - easy day trip to paris - overnight tours to paris - paris overnighter fully escorted - paris overnighter
unescorted easy day trip to london prices are  round trip updateted 28 jan 09
feel free to  "ask mele" about sight seeing on your own.)
easy day trip to  london + price information what you get: itinerary conditions: cheaper on your own: see round  trip eurostar tickets as low as $104 2nd cl
please read notes & cancellation terms & conditions order tour voucher by phone toll free 1 877 581 6594 or 808 395-2083 or e-mail:tercmele@aol.com faq re.
there,  you'll meet a golden tours representativeat the main concourse welcome desk  .your representative will exchange your voucher for a welcome pack.
flexi - pass - - britrail pass index -- rail faq & tips - europe rail maps - britrail pass index - choose your railpass
you will arrive in the heart of london in 2 hours 40 minutes.
return to paris at 10:23pm (mon-fri) and 9:53pm (sat).
upon arrival in london you will be met by a golden tours representative who will take you to the "open tour" departure point located  outside waterloo international station as well as answer any of your questions.. questions??
the open top bus tour departs every 15 minutes from outside waterlood station.
$146 also available first cl for as low as $254 usd including bus.
upon arrival in london you will be met by a golden tours representative who will take you to the "open tour" departure point located outside waterloo international station as well as answer any of your questions.. questions??
unescorted easy day trip to london prices are round trip updateted 28
( need a one day itinerary outline ??