like chemgal - ours have all disappeared.
but yeah, great female bond film.
quite a different movie from the tentpole epics we're used to seeing from him these days.
we learn about human nature, and how our traits fare when put to the ultimate test, and also the cruel harshness of chance.
now we use a vending machine in the closest grocery store, but it only has new releases.
trish, brief, to the point, compelling, i'm not sure i can give you an a for descriptive writting though! ; )
and touched that you're touched.
meanwhile, vince's 20-year-old daughter, vivian (dominik garcia-lorido, the real life daughter of andy garcía, her onscreen father), has not told her family that she has been suspended from college, lost her scholarship, gotten breast implants, and has become a stripper to try and pay for her next semester; their youngest teenage child, vinnie (ezra miller), has a secret sexual fetish for feeding women, feederism, and fantasizes about their fat next-door neighbor; and vince's wife, joyce (julianna margulies), thinking she has lost all marital intimacy, sexually pursues tony without realizing that he is her stepson.
chemgal i'll think about what movie to add here.
"you don't need a husband?
my best friend at the time watched it with us and started laughing part way through, and i looked over to her, i mean,the insult!she had removed herself from the whole scene and found it quite funny that all three of us, mom, dad and me were all boo-hoo'ing.
you can also go into genres and browse lists specific to those genres (cult horror, witty fantasy, and such like).
i learned something about myself - that i should not watch movies about plane crashes at night!
when you're browsing, you can assign ratings from 1-5 stars to movies and shows you've already seen and then they assume that similarly rated movies of a similar type will also interest you.
somegal -- nice to meet another person who doesn't mind subtitles somegalfromcan ninjafaery wrote:ninjafaery wrote: i guess i should have also mentioned that "antonia's line" is subtitled.
i saw it several years ago and whole-heartedly agree with your recommendation.
i like films about human nature, and how we make things work, how we survive and adapt and relate.
yeah, i can see how netflix works then.
the owner and the folks at the library blame the same monster.
the flip side of that thought might be heavenly creatures, about two girls who become bosom buddies and it gets carried away and twisted.
when we got home we found out why, it had closed!
but that's not the movie i'll pick to recommend... somegalfromcan elanorgold - i'm guessing that you're thinking of dangerous minds?
he did a great job on that!
i was quite emotional by the end.
mendalla elanorgold wrote:elanorgold wrote: the flip side of that thought might be heavenly creatures, about two girls who become bosom buddies and it gets carried away and twisted.
a warning not to let friendships go too far.
tabitha chemgal-the movie studio at 87 ave and 109th st. hope it's still there.
ten years later, the program is threatened when funding is pulled.
near the end of life, in the movie not your own, there is a musical number with special significance to me-
the description reminds me of into the wild, though i expect they are quite different.
i liked mr holland's opus too.
somegal, that reminds me of the one with michelle pfeiffer in it, set in a rough urban center.
it's about a 17 year-old girl (carey mulligan, who deservedly picked up a raft of awards for the role) who gets involved with a high-flying older man (peter sarsgaard) during the swinging sixties and how it affects her life both positively and negatively.
elanorgold i'm going to recommend "alive" starring ethan hawke.
one night, he finds himself taken back to that time where he starts hanging out with his idols, even getting gertrude stein to critique his novel and having a rather chaste fling with picasso's mistress.
there is the young teen with down syndrome from a neighbouring farm, who she saves from a horrible life.
she sets up a program for these inner city kids, teaching them how to play the violin.
i'm picking one that i recently re-watched that i love.
definately ***** 5 stars.
is everyone afraid of giving too much away?
alas, it is also not the easiest movie to find at times.
youtube movies is getting better all the time but still doesn't always have what i'm after (you pay per movie rather than a monthly subscription like netflix so it's more like video store).
or maybe your computer hooked up to your tv.
only downside is that the wii isn't high-definition so we can't access the hd content (xbox 360 and ps3 are better netflix clients in this regard).
a scientist awakens after a suicide attempt to find all but himself and a couple other humans have apparently vanished.
my dad even cried too!
it's going on my list.
he and the others try to figure out what happened and why they were spared.
it is one of 18 movies that have done this in a major way.
i now have two copies.
they do show you the cover (if they have a cover image available) and a summary based on the back blurb.
really made me feel gross.
a couple of the younger folks at work are going the "free" download route, but i'm not totally sold on it.
i enjoyed the life of brian.
now there are two branches and they have great selection including a lot of current titles.
directed by dutch filmmaker marleen gorris, it is a retrospective of a very strong, caring woman who drew around her the vulnerable and disenfranchised ones in her small, rural dutch community post ww2.
you may feel downright normalliving on city island, in the bronx, vince rizzo (andy garcía), a prison guard, is the father of a dysfunctional family whose members all have secrets.
"i'm not a witch i'm yer wife!
i was trying to remember what song it was parodying when i watched it.
but that's a virtue here).
so you're letting the movie speak for itself mike?
i was at once repelled and compelled, and all together educated.
love the ending, re-inforces the importance of being true to one's self, and doing as we need.
her own daughter (who she raises alone) has a child out of wedlock, but falls in love with another woman and they are accepted as a couple raising their child together.
this movie is amazing.
it's getting the most praise (and the best box office returns) that woody's had since his heyday in the seventies and eighties so i just feel i should have liked it more than i did.
alex i recoomend "one week" it is the best movie i have ever seen.
this may get us all running off to our local video rental stores!
made me feel proud of my own accomplishments and choices.
inevitably, perhaps, there's a weird al parody of it.
he also did some rather screwball horror-comedy films in his early years before getting all hollywood on us.
meryl streep stars as roberta guaspari, a single mother of two and a violin teacher.
the film explores human relationships, spirituality and our connectness to nature.
rousing recommendation sg.
so, it doesn't help with browsing by cover (something i do, as well), though, does it?
most thngs i wanted to see, i could get there.
"acclaimed 1980s dramas based on books" or "cult tv series with female leads" (offered based on my giving buffy four stars) and that sort of thing.
last night i heard them a couple of times and, each time, horrific scenes from the movie floated into my mind.
also looks gorgeous as it takes us through the london hip scene of the period as well as a visit to paris.
it gets mystical towards the end (and the meaning of the ending is open for discussion) so may not be particularly "hard" s-f, but is certainly one of the more thoughtful s-f movies from my lifetime.
it summarizes the movie perfectly and better than i ever could have. -- living on city island, in the bronx, vince rizzo (andy garcía), a prison guard, is the father of a dysfunctional family whose members all have secrets.
elanorgold definately gonna see that one alex.
there are also some quirky villagers who the director treats with real compassion.
did you hear that most of the surviving pythons are getting together to contribute voice performances to a new live action-cgi s-f comedy directed by python'er terry jones?
there are a lot of movies i really enjoy, but i'd be hard-pressed to remember them afterwards or a couple of years later.
i guess i should have also mentioned that "antonia's line" is subtitled.
it should be fairly easy to find.
elanorgold enjoyed watching gansta's paradise again.
mendalla elanorgold wrote:elanorgold wrote: terry jones, i like terry jones.
true, i do often like a film that is similar to something else, but part of the fun is finding stuff you never knew about and isn't like anything else.
it reminded me of my male chauvanist friend.
it's a writting exersize.
" hubby and i fling princess bride quotes around all the time.
and enjoyed the canadian settings.
got out the sorceress there, starring christine boisson, which was really educational and meaningful and rare, and historical, but i'm not recommending that one, as per my one movie rule! ; ) hilary lethbridge library is still really good!
billy crystal is great, and carol cane is so funny!
we go with the survivors through their arduous experience, share in their guilt, fear, resignation, strengths and weaknesses, ingenuity and triumphs, and leave the film changed, quiet, thoughtfull, appreciative.
without revealing this truth to his family, vince consequently gets tony out of prison and employs him as hired help at his own home in order to become closer with his unknowing son.
it is at times hard to watch, but does not glorify gore, and therefore i was able to see it through.
maybe i just wasn't in the mood for it.
netflix tends to create themed lists for you to browse based on movies and tv shows that you've either watched or rated.
although my favorite python is the the life of brian.
i think anyone who wants to know more about humanity, themselves, how it all works, and how we all fit in should see this film.
maybe you can see it all on youtube??
mendalla © wondercafe.
sask was very much like southern alberta.
loginemail or username: * elanorgold yet another pop culture question!
he's always wanted to go there and is particularly enamoured of the 1920s paris inhabited by hemingway, fitzgerald, and other writers and artists that he idolizes.
somegal -- nice to meet another person who doesn't mind subtitles a good movie is a good movie - regardless of the language spoken!
it's a true story that takes place in an elementary school in east harlem, new york.
remember this all takes place at a time when social norms were very conservative and repressive.
having some bob in my past, the film had relevance to me.
no netflix or youtube client as of yet, though.
did you realize that heavenly creatures was a peter jackson movie (i.e. lord of the rings, king kong, the hobbit)?
plus, michelle was awesome in it and looked fantastic.
all the films recommended are.
somegalfromcan amish paradise may be weird al's greatest parody ever!
it is the true story of a group of young rugby players whose plane crashes in the andes in the 70's, and how they die and survive.
i live a couple of blocks away from a hospital that frequently has helicoptors landing on its' roof and i can usually see them through my bedroom window.
they are always stopping (scratched, etc).
you find things you wouldn't expect to like, or wuldn't otherwise notice.
it might be a mood thing, or else it wasn't as good as others, or you're evolving away from woody films...
somegalfromcan great idea elanorgold!
elanorgold weeeelll, i am tempted by the films so far.
it's just so achingly beautiful.
maybe hit your favorite pirate site??
the dvd, great format, but as a rental they suck.
they're not the greatest movies i've ever seen, but still they touched my heart.
mendalla somegalfromcan wrote:somegalfromcan wrote: elanorgold - i'm guessing that you're thinking of dangerous minds?
we learn about ourselves in this film.
it's funny and cute and has some great one-liners and just timeless appeal.
i listened to the book on tape telling of this story by the main character in the film: nando parrado a few months ago, and was once again moved and changed.
in the end, i'd rather go to a video store or library for browsing, but like online source like netflix when i'm zero'ing in on something specific.
we are getting some creative replies here!
do you guys actually have movie rental places nearby?
for stuff that we do download, i copy it to an external hard drive and connect that to a patriot box office media player.
they also take account of what you've already watched on netflix and how you rated that content.
together they all pull together and work hard to survive.
i like to pick by the cover picture, rating, and description on the back.
they start at the beginning, conception, and the premise that "every sperm is sacred".
i just hope people will allways have access to the movie gems of yesteryear.
the library system is sadly lacking, i often have to buy a film i'm desperate to see.
trishcuit another movie i put on sometimes just for fun, it's like visiting old friends, is "the princess bride".
he looks a lot like him too.
elanorgold awesome hillary!
mendalla somegalfromcan trishcuit - thanks for reminding me of that wonderful movie.
i'm sure we can all come up with different ones.
it was a funky off beat partly b&w film, and kate blanchett was awesome in it.
but into the wild reeeeealy moved me, and is also about one man's journey to find meaning and fulfillment.
haven't seen it since the film was out.
she played bob fantastically, her and ben whishaw were my favorite bobs.
yes, it would be useful, if you have high speed.
the film is also a celebration of being canadian, with great scenes shot in the most beautiful places, and it is also filled with great canadian music, written and recored by independant and up and coming canadian artists.
i'm sure you'll never forget it.
but that said, i find a lot of stuff i like on youtube through the sidebar, and on amazon through the related items there.
as for midnight in paris, i'm a big woody allen fan and this movie should, on paper, be the sort of allen film that i eat up.
or "what's it all mean?"
we are lucky to still have two video rental places, 20 mins away.
funny, i had forgotten about that last musical number.
i saw it some 17 years ago and it still lives on in my mind.
so, if you rate the new star trek at 5 stars, they will likely steer you to the other trek movies (they don't have any of the trek tv shows on netflix canada, but all of the movies).
still not quite like browsing a store, though, any more than looking through kobo or amazon is like browsing through a good bookstore.
it would be a drag to watch movies on our computer!
mendalla one movie i often toss out in threads like this is the quiet earth (1985, new zealand).
anyone who isn't familiar with any bob lore though, would be rather lost.
mikepaterson loved this!!!
this is the most difficult part of the movie to watch as it is a rape scene.
to find out why - you'll have to watch!
it's a responce to the new thoughts, and to the expantion of your mind through the movie.
it's post-apocalyptic, but not your typical battle for survival variety of post-apoc.
this may get us all running off to our local video rental stores!
i'll have to buy it on ebay.
this movie changed my life.
sounds like a great film ninj.
i just watched a student made trailer for the film.
i've had that feeling before too about films and albums.
perhaps some of the smaller, more specialized video stores??
i've been to some of them, tofino, banff, hells gate...
that was a log time ago though, so i might be due to see it again.
netflix doesn't have it, nor does youtube movies.
it's very progressive and inclusive.
conversation: him "my sons need a mother" her "i don't need your sons" him
i've had this on my mind for a while...
elanorgold awww, i'm touched.
it's a really sad thing if modern technology has robbed us of the chance to see older movies.
the characters are extremely well-drawn.
mendalla elanorgold terry jones, i like terry jones.
the widower next door becomes her "special friend" but she eschews marriage.
it also has one of the most inspiring and brillant endings of any movie.
-- all in all, if you think your family is dysfunctional, take a break and watch this family in action...
to me, "music of the heart," is a beautiful movie - a real triumph of the human spirit.
it is a road trip story, about a young recently engaged man who is diagnosed with terminal cancer at the begining of the movie, and then takes a motorcycle trip accross canada to find the meaning of life, and what his purpose is.
however, when we watched it yesterday, it just didn't click with me until near the end.
i have sour tears in my eyes just remembering it.
i'll probably give it another view.
elanorgold ok mendalla, i feel like a total cave woman now.
the big tease looks amusing.
ah yes, princess bride is always good.
i'd say music of the heart is more like mr. holland's opus, personally.
the two girls plot to murder the mother who tries to keep them apart, and thereafter have to spend the rest of their lives apart for their own good, one of them in a mental hospital.
a research project that he was involved with seems to be part of it.
mine ends in death...
somegalfromcan partially based on a recommendation here by elanorgold, last night i watched alive.
mendalla elanorgold wrote:elanorgold wrote: yes, it would be useful, if you have high speed.
vince discovers that his secret illegitimate son is now the 24-year-old prison inmate tony nardella (steven strait) who is being held in the same prison where he works.
sheldon: sounds terrifying!
if you ever have late fines there just ask them to reduce them.
mendalla elanorgold wrote:elanorgold wrote: it's a really sad thing if modern technology has robbed us of the chance to see older movies.
have you ever asked, "why are we here?"
vince has also been secretly taking acting lessons, taught by michael malakov (alan arkin), and begins to form a platonic bond with molly (emily mortimer), another aspiring actor.
good selection plus a free section of documentaries.
apparenlty, eric idle is the only one not on board and they are still talking to him so that could change.
on the other hand, if you're looking for a specific title or person (e.g. you crave a woody allen movie), then they have a search engine that makes the job quite easy compared to to trying to find a specific item in some stores.
mendalla actually watched a couple movies this weekend.
watch it and find out.
i used to have a 24 hr video across the street (early 90's), and would rent at least two a week, sometimes 4.
an education sounds really interesting.
i guess i liked them because they both emphasize the bond women have with each other.
plays full 1080p and can be networked using wi-fi.
you sure look different without the platinum hair!
it's a streamed service (i.e. it plays from the website to your computer).
some of them actually come up with interesting stuff.
i just thought of another unofficial recommendation, "i'm not there" about bob dylan.
my son recently got into gangsta's paradise, the big single from the soundtrack.
so this one goes: you pick one movie you really like, and you tell the group why we should watch that film, in a medium length post (not humungous).
well-written, well acted, good storytelling, if a bit slow and quiet (
the monty python troupe take the topic on in this one.
it is a realistic and gritty portrayal that used testimonies from the survivors to put together the scenes.
i've picked a few winners over the years just by looking at the cover and reading the back blurb.
the apartment's convience store used to have a few movies for rent, and they don't even offer that service anymore.
one of my favourites as well, alex.
and i'm sure encouraged my husband to keep submitting his novel in to publishers.
sheldon city island i pulled this off wiki...
all rights reserved brought to you by the people ofthe united church of canada opinions expressed on this site are not necessarily those of wondercafe or the united church of canada enlarge text a a a
so this one goes: you pick one movie you really like, and you tell  the group why we should watch that film, in a medium length post (not  humungous).
netflix canada seems to be better for tv shows than for movies.
for example one called farinelli: il castrati, about a rococo castralto singer i found out about on youtube.
definitely on the short list for my permanent collection!
basically, a writer visits paris with his fiancee and her parents.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/antonia%27s_line somegalfromcan thank you for reminding me of that excellent movie ninja!
my movie would be the meaning of life.
tell the audience what we will get  out of watching this movie.
can you do that on netflicks?
and somegal knows amish paradise!
kind of like a big, fee-based youtube in that regard.
it's hard to limit myself to just one, but here i go!
you hae to have all the technology for all that to work.
how are they to know what we will and won't find interesting?
tell the audience what we will get out of watching this movie.
i was in town today but only briefly, so sending hubby with a movie list tomorrow...
(but they are weak on new releases).
nando talks about the unbearable becoming common by the end in his own book too.
elanorgold i watched one week a couple days ago.
but after what you just said, i'm not sure i wanna be that anymore!!
the recommendation is an education (2007).
that was a film about a world i knew nothing about.
: (free from our public library) — the big tease… mikepaterson
chemgal thanks tabitha, i'll check it out sometime!
and justice prevails.
you can't burn netflix content to disc (well, i suspect there are ways, but i'm not doing it).
but, you still only see the ones that they are feeding you unless you go into a genre and click the all titles option.
you may feel downright normal elanorgold i saw beaches when it was new, ad cried through just about the whole thing.
i recommend it highly.
login or register to post comments add new comment
this one really stayed with me and i've seen it a few times.
we had many a movie out from there.
lethbridge library used to be really good.
the way that roberta, her students, their families and others react is what makes the movie worth watching.
while mulligan got a lot of the attention for it, the rest of the cast is also excellent, esp.
carolla i wish we still had a local video store!!
if one of us has an appointment the other one says "have fun storming the castle!"
posted on: 01/27/2012 22:54 yet another pop culture question!
do you watch on your computer or burn to dvd and watch on your tv screen?
the visions while copters arrive will fade.
trishcuit waking ned devine.
waterfall so many movies, but one from a while ago, "beaches" with bette middler (tearjerker) or the colour purple.
well worth your time.
yeah, our nearest was a blockbuster (rip) and i haven't really found anything else nearby that has decent selection other than london public library
we see life turn from normal and comfortable, as we all know it, to harsh and raw and primal, in a few seconds.
mendalla - i'll have to keep my eyes open for that movie.
it's a wonderful antidote to the over-wrought fx gimmickery of tentpole s-f movies like those of james cameron.
smart script by nick hornby based on a memoir (forget the author) and a very well-made film overall.
good thing we still do have some video stores.
one i'm a bit iffy on (woody allen's midnight in paris) but the other is an unqualified recommendation.
everyone is valued and accepted for who they are.
it's piracy, strictly speaking, and the quality and security of the sites and downloads, is dicey in some cases.
the movie makes you think, laugh, cry and feel joy.
the rousing "isn't it awfully nice to have a penis".
oh and billy chrystal makes a cameo appearance.
it was also kate winslet's first feature film (she'd mainly done tv before).
there's a netflix client for the nintendo wii (for all of the big game consoles, actually), so we have our wii connected to our home network and can then stream netflix to the tv through it.
there used to be a roger's which closed, and my husband and i drove around looking for the blockbuster, arguing a bit about where we thought it was (this was before they went bankrupt), we never found it.
that said, i did find the movie to be very moving - and i found it interesting how things that i found to be grotesque, at first, became bearable (and watchable) by the end.
sg our local store still rents movies.
mendalla ninjafaery i loved one called "antonia's line".
" her "what for?" they spend time together away from everyone in a little bunkie when things get romantic.
mendalla elanorgold hmm, it's weird feeling when you feel you should like a film better.
mendalla somegalfromcan we have a locally owned video store a couple of blocks down the street.
one is fairly new and doesn't have many older films, the other has been there a while and while it isn't as big as a blockbuster, it suffices.
it's by the rapper coolio.
i picked up moneyball to watch tomorrow.
ya know, browsing the isles of the video store... mining the gems...
mendalla mendalla sg wrote:sg wrote: my movie would be the meaning of life.
the patriot basically lets you take digital media content and play it on a tv without having to have a computer or network connection on the tv itself.