please ask at time of booking about additional hotel nights before your tour begins and about our comprehensive guest protection plan.
personal expenses such as phone calls, room service, alcoholic and bar beverages, laundry, airline excess luggage charges, visa fees and other optional incidental extras are not included and may be significant.
see the ornate hall of mirrors, the  state apartments decorated with gold and marble, and exquisite formal gardens.
french impressionist paintings are among the most popular of the vast collections.
note: in most cases, airport transfers are not included for these bookings.
this means better value and a more relaxed, pleasant experience for you.
lodging:langham hotel, london, england day 2: westminster abbey, windsor castle view westminster abbeys medieval architecture and art collection.
spend your free afternoon in london visiting famed gardens, museums, or historic sites.
explore the winding streets of montmartre, made  famous by artists, poets, and the moulin rouge cabaret.
see st. georges chapel, one of the finest examples of gothic architecture in england; queen marys dolls house, an exquisite miniature palace; and the baroque state apartments (if available).
other escorted tours home europe main page specials home
london and paris a week in... london and paris this paris and london tour is the classic european travel experience, with  high-speed train service linking the two capitals.
view landmark attractions in paris, and enjoy dinner at a parisian  restaurant boasting great views.
meals: breakfast, dinner lodging: intercontinental le grand hotel, paris, france day 8: au revoir, paris tour ends at paris charles de gaulle international airport 2 1/2 hours before the departure of tauck-selected flights.
if you are departing  at a different time, you must secure your own transportation to the airport.
see st. george’s chapel, one of the finest examples of gothic  architecture in england; queen mary’s dolls’ house, an exquisite  miniature palace; and the baroque state apartments (if available).
at the  tower of london, see the british crown jewels; enjoy two completely different  views of the city, cruising the picturesque thames river, and soaring 450 feet  above it on the world’s highest observation wheel, the british airways  london eye.
tour windsor castle and chateau de versailles, montmartre and the tower of london, the louvre and the british museum.
tauck can book your international air, for travel originating in the united states, subject to availability.
your tauck director is a professional, fully trained employee of tauck.
return to  london where you can pursue your own interests in london for the remainder of  the day.
meet the granddaughter of gaston leroux, author of phantom of the opera, over lunch at a parisian restaurant.
enjoy one of england’s great pleasures, afternoon tea, as you  please this afternoon.
luggage responsibility although every effort is made to handle guests luggage carefully, we cannot be responsible, assume liability or accept claims for loss or damage to luggage and personal effects due to breakage, theft, or fair wear and tear through hotel, airline and group carrier handling.
your london tour takes in landmark sites, such as piccadilly circus, trafalgar square, westminster bridge, westminster abbey, and the houses of parliament.
breakfast lodging: langham hotel, london, england day 3: tower of london, thames cruise, tea & the theater
the tauck standard is to provide the best available hotels without sacrificing value.
breakfast prices 8 days from $2,995 plus airfare special departures where the single price is $3495: august 1, august 20 and october 8 14 meals included.
enjoy an evening farewell dinner cruise on the seine river,  passing the twinkling lights of the paris skyline.
no options sold taucks price includes special dinners, entertainment, sightseeing and most activities.
enjoy an evening farewell dinner cruise on the seine river, passing the twinkling lights of the paris skyline.
in the evening, attend a theatre performance of mary  poppins in the west end, a london tour highlight.
meals: breakfast the mona lisa beckons you to book this paris and london tour – do it  today!
meals: breakfast, lunch, dinner lodging:intercontinental le grand hotel, paris, france day 6:  versailles & montmartre take in king louis xiv’s extravagant  17th-century palace, chateau de versailles.
the customary gratuity to the tauck director and driver is not included.
meals meals are included as specified in the itinerary.
french impressionist paintings are among  the most popular of the vast collections.
need to know tour prices are per person in u.s. dollars.
travel to windsor castle, home of the british royal family for over  900 years.
view landmark attractions in paris, and enjoy dinner at a parisian restaurant boasting great views.
inquire upon booking for special airfares that may be available.
to arrange additional nights in paris after the paris and london tour, please discuss at the time of booking.
such gratuities should be extended on a voluntary, individual basis and not as a group.
meals: breakfast, lunch, dinner lodging:intercontinental le grand hotel, paris, france day 6: versailles & montmartre take in king louis xivs extravagant 17th-century palace, chateau de versailles.
triples are two-bedded rooms plus a rollaway cot and are not recommended for comfort.
hotel accommodations taucks price includes all hotel accommodations with private baths.
single hotel accommodations since hotel rates are per room, the tour price for rooms occupied by one person is higher than those where two or more persons share the cost of a room.
hotel room charges will be added to the tour cost.
in the evening, attend a theatre performance of mary poppins in the west end, a london tour highlight.
as a service, tauck will make reservations before or after your paris and london tour.
meals: breakfast, lunch lodging: langham hotel, london, england day 5: first-class train to paris travel first class aboard eurostar, a high-speed train which makes the london-to-paris journey in just three hours, crossing under the english channel.
lodging:langham hotel, london, england day 2: westminster abbey,  windsor castle view westminster abbey’s medieval architecture and art  collection.
international airfare is additional.
although the quality of accommodations may differ from place to place, this standard remains uncompromised.
meal codes are: b=breakfast, l=lunch, d=dinner.
meet the granddaughter of gaston leroux, author of phantom of the opera, over  lunch at a parisian restaurant.
meals: breakfast,  lunch lodging: intercontinental le grand hotel, paris, france day  7: mona lisa at the louvre leonardo da vinci’s mona lisa greets you  with a shy smile at the musée du louvre, showcasing some of the  world’s most famous masterpieces.
day-by-day itinerary day 1: cheerio, london tour begins at london heathrow airport one hour after the arrival of tauck-selected flights.
pursue your own passions in paris in the afternoon.
enjoy boat cruises on the thames and seine rivers, the view from the worlds highest observation wheel, and a theatre performance in londons west end.
meals: lunch, dinner
see the beefeaters at buckingham palace.
airfare may be purchased from tauck for travel originating in the united states.
tauck director and driver gratuities
enjoy the evening welcome reception and dinner at your historic west end hotel.
pursue your own passions in paris in  the afternoon.
all accommodations, entertainment, special dinners, motor coach, rail transportation, luggage handling, admissions, services of tauck directors, and drivers are included.
meals: breakfast, lunch lodging: intercontinental le grand hotel, paris, france day 7: mona lisa at the louvre leonardo da vincis mona lisa greets you with a shy smile at the musée du louvre, showcasing some of the worlds most famous masterpieces.
day-by-day itinerary day 1: cheerio, london tour begins at  london heathrow airport one hour after the arrival of tauck-selected flights.
meals: breakfast, dinner lodging: intercontinental le grand hotel, paris, france day 8:
tour windsor castle and chateau de versailles,  montmartre and the tower of london, the louvre and the british museum.
enjoy boat cruises on the thames and seine rivers, the view  from the world’s highest observation wheel, and a theatre performance in  london’s west end.
gratuities for luggage handling, bellmen, doormen, dining room servers, housekeepers, and local guides are included.
au  revoir, paris tour ends at paris charles de gaulle international airport 2  1/2 hours before the departure of tauck-selected flights.
enjoy one of englands great pleasures, afternoon tea, as you please this afternoon.
prices 8 days from $2,995 plus airfare double
return to london where you can pursue your own interests in london for the remainder of the day.
rooms are reserved on a space-available basis and must be booked through tauck to qualify for taucks special rates.
see the ornate hall of mirrors, the state apartments decorated with gold and marble, and exquisite formal gardens.
hotel rooms before & after tours due to time schedules and the possibility of flight delays, many guests prefer to make hotel arrangements for the night preceding their paris and london tour.
in europe, most single rooms are smaller than double rooms and have only one bed.
it is important that you have adequate insurance.
refer to taucks guest protection.
about us cruises destinations special places car rental contact us european luxury escorted tours tauck world discovery london and paris a week in... london and paris this paris and london tour is the classic european travel experience, with high-speed train service linking the two capitals.
your london tour takes in landmark sites, such as piccadilly circus, trafalgar  square, westminster bridge, westminster abbey, and the houses of parliament.
antiquities at the  british museum take a guided tour of the british museum, the  country’s largest museum containing the rosetta stone, mummies, and  sculptures from the parthenon, as well as vast collections of egyptian, greek,  and roman antiquities.
antiquities at the british museum take a guided tour of the british museum, the countrys largest museum containing the rosetta stone, mummies, and sculptures from the parthenon, as well as vast collections of egyptian, greek, and roman antiquities.
if you are departing at a different time, you must secure your own transportation to the airport.
travel to windsor castle, home of the british royal family for over 900 years.
tauck directors sometimes assist with information on free-time activities, based on honest opinion and guidance, but will not sell you anything.
meals: breakfast, lunch lodging:  langham hotel, london, england day 5: first-class train to paris travel first class aboard eurostar, a high-speed train which makes the  london-to-paris journey in just three hours, crossing under the english  channel.
history and intrigue highlight these centers of culture and power, from jeweled crowns to an infamous guillotine, from mummies to garden mazes, from gold-encrusted rooms to ancient alleyways.
explore the winding streets of montmartre, made famous by artists, poets, and the moulin rouge cabaret.
breakfast lodging: langham hotel, london, england day 3: tower of london, thames cruise, tea & the theater at the tower of london, see the british crown jewels; enjoy two completely different views of the city, cruising the picturesque thames river, and soaring 450 feet above it on the worlds highest observation wheel, the british airways london eye.
tauck director each paris and london tour is conducted by a tauck director who remains with the group throughout the duration.
history and intrigue  highlight these centers of culture and power, from jeweled crowns to an  infamous guillotine, from mummies to garden mazes, from gold-encrusted rooms to  ancient alleyways.
meals: breakfast lodging:langham hotel, london, england day 4:
two-bedded rooms are reserved in most hotels.
enjoy the evening welcome reception  and dinner at your historic west end hotel.
airfare to the tour departure point and from the tour ending point is not included.
spend your free afternoon in london visiting famed  gardens, museums, or historic sites.