it is said, i do not know whether accurately or not, that it is rare to discover a londoner of more than the forth generation.
down the river, as far s the eye can see, stretch mile after mile of docks; for london, as well as being the world's greatest city, is also the world's greatest port.
it is evident, again i add at least to me, in the ordinary traffic of everyday life.
londoners must be kindly folk, dobie thinks, or they would snare the pigeons for food.
the latest stories from the london section of the bbc news web site.
*if nothing is found relating to these terms amazon will display a selection of books from the general best seller list.
the books displayed above are returned using the search terms 'greater%20london'.
the system includes all the  undergound lines (and these, run fromsouthend to uxbridge and from morden to  remotewendover and aylesbury), trams, now rapidly giving way to trolley buses,  and the red monster of london's streets, the bus proper.
but london has little pride in the fact.
this suggests that london is cosmopolitan, but this is only partially true.
"here is an open  space," says the londoner, "let's build a house."
but the parks have  been imposed on the city by authority in a past age, and the londoner's  interest in the often gorgeous flower-beds is perfunctory and in the trees  disastrous.
books about greater london*
most of them are real london, though some of them are practically foreign colonies, the people of which would be happier elsewhere.
london is at the beginning of another, and this time, may be, the most fundamental, of its many changes.
"yes," she said, "but they're not the same: they're not so  matey."
but one thing he cannot abide; he agrees with the theologians in regarding pride as the first of the deadly sins.
that is why scotsmen and irishmen and migrants from the outer english marches  have most of the good london jobs.
there are, again superficially, many londons - rich london and poor london,  literary london and artistic london, virtuous london and raffish london and  suburban london.
london is, indeed, the londoner's own  city, and it is impossible to determine whether the londoner has made london or  london has made the londoner.
"it might have been worse," is the summary of his philosophy.
londoners must be kindly folk, dobie thinks, or  they would snare the pigeons for food.
the middle classes, from  the poorly paid clerks to the head of businesses, are constantly trekking  farther and farther from the city's centre to its outskirts and over its  borders, and the greater their resources the longer is the trek.
but one thing he cannot abide; he agrees with the  theologians in regarding pride as the first of the deadly sins.
it is cleaner, healthier and more comely.
the miserable sinner is a "pore feller" to be pitied.
it is  a "bit of a change."
this human and, i would venture to add, christian dislike was expressed by the late gus elen in his song: since jack jones come into a little bit the londoner is naturally lazy.
this is the  highest point up river that can be reached by large ocean-going steamers.
it is possible that the  londoner's devotion to disorder will, to some extent, foil the architects and  the planners.
it was magnificently apparent in every blitz, but the kindliness of the londoner does not need unusual peril to bring it into existence.
how comparatively lazy he is i discovered when i took to living among the industrious people of a small agricultural village.
to the poet henley on an october day;trafalgar square to the londoner, trafalgar square is the place where the children feed the pigeons and trade unionists demonstrate on sunday afternoons.
experience has taught him to expect very little.
he can never be interested for very long in the things that matter.
more detailed information including visitor attractions and event venues in greater london is available on this site by following the links below to the boroughs and/or districts or follow this link toselect a different county.
the tiny suburban gardens and the flower-pots on the tenement window-sills suggest the londoners love of flowers.
the south eastern counties
the majority of the folk who sleep as well as work within the  county borders belong to the working class.
he agrees with dibdin, "what agrifies snivelling and piping your eye?"
it was magnificently apparent in every  blitz, but the kindliness of the londoner does not need unusual peril to bring  it into existence.
its  historical possessions are for the most part unappreciated.
londoners made no effective protests when the  adam's adelphi and nash's regent street became the victims of the  housebreakers' picks, and during the war londoners regretted the destruction of  some of its finest buildings - and these were sadly numerous - far less than  they mourned the loss of the cramped little houses in the mean little streets.
"yes," she said, "but they're not the same: they're not so matey."
this is the highest point up river that can be reached by large ocean-going steamers.
many good new things have been added to the city's life, some good things have been lost.
the streets all around bear evidence of this and other raids that destroyed or severely damaged the guildhall, the temple, and many of the quiet old inns and courts.
it is strange and uncomfortable to the man form a back street in lancashire town, as it is to a man from a wiltshire village.
he detests being "ordered about," and, in so far as he  obeys the laws and regulations without more than humorous protest, he does so  from that consideration for others that is the londoner's virtue - from, that  is, his mateyness.
"all, all are gone the old familiar faces," and their places have been taken by insufferable crooners, babbling fake plantation ditties about "kentucky babbies."
the thames, he adds, is  "the main thoroughfare fromkensington to valparaiso."
thomas burke says it is "as unknowable as a man on the bus."
the london that successfully resisted  christopher wren's efforts to make it symmetrical and comely is now to be  planned by sir patrick abercormbie.
greater london is the administrative county of london, the area with which i am concerned in this article.
the system includes all the undergound lines (and these, run fromsouthend to uxbridge and from morden to remotewendover and aylesbury), trams, now rapidly giving way to trolley buses, and the red monster of london's streets, the bus proper.
the streets all around bear evidence of this and other raids that  destroyed or severely damaged the guildhall, the temple, and many of the quiet  old inns and courts.
the most valuable communal qualities seem to be most highly developed amongst those whose lives are limited gy economic circumstances.
londoners made no effective protests when the adam's adelphi and nash's regent street became the victims of the housebreakers' picks, and during the war londoners regretted the destruction of some of its finest buildings - and these were sadly numerous - far less than they mourned the loss of the cramped little houses in the mean little streets.
copyright 2002-2012©jevstar acknowledgement and detail of external copyrights britain - england - scotland - wales - n ireland skip | access | home | site news | site map  |faq | help | legal | feedback | contact home > england >
the londoner is tolerant, not given to harsh judgements of his neighbours.
find on this site: with adjust the map using controls or drag with mouse centred at lat long zoom click & zoom map to: follow this link for information about the current major traffic incidents in england (the external website above will open in a new window)
the respect for the law with which the londoner is often credited is, in fact, vastly exaggerated.
most of them are real london, though some of them are  practically foreign colonies, the people of which would be happier elsewhere.
the centre of an empire, the character of which is dramatically changing,  and of a commonwealth that still retains a tremendous influence in the shaping  of human destinies, and for a century the financial hub of the world, london  has accepted its high destiny with little more than amused indifference.
in the mean streets is commonly heard the remark, "i didn't arf laugh," when some unforeseen misfortune has occurred.
the londoner is the purposeless amateur of life, and his city has been thrown together by purposeless amateurs.
on the whole, the londoner is more courteous than the parisian, the new yorker or the man of manchester and leeds.
max beerbhom once said that he always pitied the wrong-doer, since he generally has a bad time.
the public bar agrees with him.
"it's the pore that ‘elps' the pore" is a london truism.
the memory of its ancient gates  is perpetuated in the names of such streets as moorgate, ludgate and  bishopsgate.
that is the londoner's distinguishing quality.
youth, 16, stabbed in street row
the books displayed above are returned using the search terms  'greater%20london'.
to discover the real londoner, therefore, it is  necessary to avoid the dorchester hotel and turn into the pig and whistle, and  to journey from the west end toislington and pentonville, striking south to  bethnal green, then, carefully skirting the city, making one's way to what the  germans have left of stepney andpoplar (more genuinely london than their  cosmopolitan neighbour whitechapel), then across the tower bridge to  rotherhithe and bermondsey and westward to southwark and lambeth.
its people admire bush  house because it is large, but leave american tourists to admire st james's  palace.
london enjoys the  incongruous and half welcomes the unexpected, even when it is misfortune.
he is never really happy except when he is playing the fool.
never  introduce your donah to a pal for the odds is ten to one he'll sneak your  gal - these and their comrades were the authentic voices of the london of  thirty years ago.
but it is in struggling london that the genuine londonner is to be found, and, when he is found and understood, he will be recognized as a kindly easy-going, indifferent man.
it does not matter what sort of a house, or in what style it is built.
it remoulds them in its own likeness: in less than a generation they become cockney's, and a cockney is far more unlike the rest of the people of this island than the parisian is unlike the rest of the people of france.
this vast area is coincident with the metropolitan police district, and the  writ of the metropolitan police runs throughout it.
the londoner is the laughing stoic.
but london is a plan-less city, every  growing, without sense or reason, an octopus of bricks and mortar, steel and  concrete.
but, it seems to me these alleged differences are either superficial or imaginary.
paris names its streets after its great men, but there is no shakespeare street in the city, no chaucer street, no milton street, no dickens street, though there are a goldsmith building in the temple and a johnson court off fleet street.
it is the vast collection of streets, factories and houses along both banks of the thames, with a centre at charing cross, and reaching out in every direction over a radius of at least fifteen miles.
london is, indeed, the londoner's own city, and it is impossible to determine whether the londoner has made london or london has made the londoner.
,"  said mr wemmick, "let's have a wedding."
that'll never upset me.
their songs were banal, their humour was robustly coarse,  they were natural.
he would have heard laughter in them both.
it is a "bit of a change."
the londoner, says thomas burke, is "vital and gusty," he is also knowing and kindly.
it can be dignified and undignified.
first in order of size there is the great, sprawling mass of bricks and  mortar known as greater london.
the essential kindness of the londoner is accompanied with fickleness and  lack of firmness of purpose.
as a man has many moods, so has london.
never introduce your donah to a pal - these and their comrades were the authentic voices of the london of thirty years ago.
return to top page last updated 22/02/12
the centre of an empire, the character of which is dramatically changing, and of a commonwealth that still retains a tremendous influence in the shaping of human destinies, and for a century the financial hub of the world, london has accepted its high destiny with little more than amused indifference.
" it is pleasant also to remember that the great hospital at lambeth just across the river preserves the name of st thomas of london who was murdered in canterbury cathedral and who was loved and trusted by the poor.
this human and, i would  venture to add, christian dislike was expressed by the late gus elen in his  song: since jack jones come into a little bit o'splosh ‘e  dunno where ‘e are.
it can be tragically foolish and acutely  wise.
true there are many foreigners within its gates, but they are in it, not of it.
in his book a texan in england, frank dobie calls london "the supreme world receiver."
king edward the confessor dedicated the abbey church ofwestminster to st peter because of the legend that the saint appeared on the river bank atwestminster and there, as a reward for the fishermen who ferried him across, he ordained that the man should catch " a plentiful supply of fish of which the greater part should be salmon.
it covers an area of 74,850 acres, stretching from poplar in the east to hammersmith in the west - from the northern heights of hampstead to the southern heights of sydenham, topped by the ghost of the crystal palace.
the village after a time settles more or less happily in london.
but, i am told, frugal italian  restaurant-keepers have proved by experiment that even the deftest cooking  cannot make london pigeon edible.
the prudential, the uk's biggest insurer, is considering moving its headquarters from london to hong kong.
but, however that may be, i do not doubt that the londoner of  tomorrow will be the close kin of the londoner of yesterday.
that is why scotsmen and irishmen and migrants from the outer english marches have most of the good london jobs.
it was originally a walled city, and traces of the old roman wall  can still be seen, particularly at the tower.
the londoner works to live; to live to work would seem to him sheer idiocy.
it is not the west  front that interests londoners, but what william morris called, "the  beastly monuments to fools and knaves."
to discover the real londoner, therefore, it is necessary to avoid the dorchester hotel and turn into the pig and whistle, and to journey from the west end toislington and pentonville, striking south to bethnal green, then, carefully skirting the city, making one's way to what the germans have left of stepney andpoplar (more genuinely london than their cosmopolitan neighbour whitechapel), then across the tower bridge to rotherhithe and bermondsey and westward to southwark and lambeth.
even the king may not enter the city without the  lord mayor's permission, and when he does cross the boundary fromwestminster at  temple bar, he is to this day handed the keys of the city, although the old  gates no longer remain, and is received as the city's honoured guest.
the middle classes, from the poorly paid clerks to the head of businesses, are constantly trekking farther and farther from the city's centre to its outskirts and over its borders, and the greater their resources the longer is the trek.
he can never be interested for very long in the  things that matter.
there is considerable ignorance (even in the minds of london policemen) as to where this administrative county begins and ends.
the poor are affected by their environment because they rarely escape from that environment.
the rich, who are nowadays selling their mansions to commercial firms, have been for generations only sojourners in london, and rarely there from fridays to mondays.
missile suspect due in us court a retired british businessman being held in the us for allegedly selling  batteries for iranian missiles is due in court on monday.
where he  is, there he wants to remain.
the londoner is the purposeless amateur of life, and his city has been  thrown together by purposeless amateurs.
no true londoner was ever a disciple of dr smiles.
whitehall houses the departments of state.
superficially, london has changed immensely since dickens described the striking slums, where oliver twist was caught in fagin's web, and the humorously endured poverty of the cratchits and the kenwigs.
the essential kindness of the londoner is accompanied with fickleness and lack of firmness of purpose.
london lacks imagination and the historic sense.
the city and westminster were the cradles of political liberty.
so was archbishop laud, who centuries after st thomas died, was taken down the river from lambeth to die in the tower, and, as he passed, the people lined the river-bank and wept.
unlike st paul, he never puts  away childish things.
the  truth is that london is as knowable as the man on the bus.
but, and here is one of the many london oddities, there is an exception, for that writ does not run within the bounds of thecity of london, which is a law unto itself.
this is due to better schools, the radio and the cinema.
even this statement is  not quite true, for, with the development of fast electric trains over a  growing network of suburban lines, of the motor-car and the green line coach,  london's dormitories now reach to the south coast, from eastbourne to worthing.
plans to charge visitors £15 to climb the tower containing big ben are condemned as "a disgrace" by an mp.
there is considerable ignorance  (even in the minds of london policemen) as to where this administrative county  begins and ends.
he has no use  for the man who "chucks his weight about."
publishing information: page last updated 22/02/12
incidentally, is it safe to say that dickens would no find the caledonian road wholly sad or the ball's pond road entirely melancholy?
it is possible that more great men have walked in  its streets than in the streets of any other city except paris.
each of these boroughs, as well as the two cities, has its own mayor (a  lord mayor in the case of thecity of london) and municipal council, and each of  them is represented on london's governing body - the london county council -  the offices of which are situated in lambeth and almost face the houses of  parliament across the thames atwestminster bridge.
paris names its  streets after its great men, but there is no shakespeare street in the city, no  chaucer street, no milton street, no dickens street, though there are a  goldsmith building in the temple and a johnson court off fleet street.
the miserable sinner is a "pore feller"  to be pitied.
it can be kind and cruel.
consequently  none of the popular social movements that led to the labour party triumph in  1945 began in london, though london has always been sympathetic.
i suggested that she have found many new neighbours.
the accent not only of the wellers, but also of the londoner of forty years ago, has almost disappeared.
the cockney now says, "yeah" and not the old-time  "yuss."
the thames, he adds, is "the main thoroughfare fromkensington to valparaiso."
the thames is the repository of london's history.
the difficulty is to decide exactly what is meant by london, for there are  in fact several ‘londons' for different purposes, and none is exactly the  same as the other.
the result ought to be, and almost always  is, repellent ugliness and heartbreaking discomfort.
adjoining the city to the west is part of westminster, the richest of the london boroughs, created a city by royal charter as recently as 1900.
unitary authorities and metropolitan areas are shown below as these locations are historically associated with this county.
"all, all are gone the old familiar faces," and  their places have been taken by insufferable crooners, babbling fake plantation  ditties about "kentucky babbies."
the londoner is apt to be frivolous-minded.
the majority of the folk who sleep as well as work within the county borders belong to the working class.
first in order of size there is the great, sprawling mass of bricks and mortar known as greater london.
in his book a texan in england, frank dobie calls london "the supreme  world receiver."
it remoulds them in its  own likeness: in less than a generation they become cockney's, and a cockney is  far more unlike the rest of the people of this island than the parisian is  unlike the rest of the people of france.
unlike their compatriots in new york, few of them sought naturalization.
copyright 2002-2012©jevstar acknowledgement and detail of external copyrights
many good  new things have been added to the city's life, some good things have been lost.
it is strange and uncomfortable to the man form a back  street in lancashire town, as it is to a man from a wiltshire village.
his parks, too, are beautiful, or were until the military had their way with them in the war.
superficially, london has changed immensely since dickens described the  striking slums, where oliver twist was caught in fagin's web, and the  humorously endured poverty of the cratchits and the kenwigs.
true there are many foreigners within its  gates, but they are in it, not of it.
each of these boroughs, as well as the two cities, has its own mayor (a lord mayor in the case of thecity of london) and municipal council, and each of them is represented on london's governing body - the london county council - the offices of which are situated in lambeth and almost face the houses of parliament across the thames atwestminster bridge.
it permits "improvers" to destroy its beauties with a ruthlessness almost equal to that of the german bombers.
a 16-year-old boy is in a stable condition after being stabbed in the street outside a hotel in north-west london.
the londoner is natural only when he is free to give himself to the frivolous - darts and football pools and the cultivation of a back garden.
" it is pleasant also to remember that the great hospital at lambeth just  across the river preserves the name of st thomas of london who was murdered in  canterbury cathedral and who was loved and trusted by the poor.
it does not  matter what sort of a house, or in what style it is built.
it  houses a population of nearly four and half million people and embraces  twenty-nine separate administrative entities, consisting of two cities - london  andwestminster - and twenty seven boroughs - namely: hammersmith, fulham,  kensington, chelsea, paddington, marylebone, hampstead, st pancras, holborn,  finsbury, islington, stoke newington, shoreditch, stepney, bethnal green,  hackney, poplar, woolwich, greenwich, lewisham, deptford, bermondsey,  southwark, camberwell, lambeth, battersea, and wandsworth.
i met scores of evacuees during the war; i did not meet one (except perhaps the very young children) who was not aching for the trams and the shops, the cinemas and the noise of his london.
the coming of the cinema and the hollywood film has revolutionized london's language.
location type barking and dagenham london borough barnet london borough bexley london borough brent london borough bromley london borough camden london borough croydon london borough
[your user agent does not support frames  or is currently configured not to display frames.]
however, it is true that the londoner is as essentially kindly as he is cosy, and the kindness is most apparent in the districts where the streets are mean and the means scanty.
his soul is more stubborn than his streets.
the londoner is naturally lazy.
i met scores  of evacuees during the war; i did not meet one (except perhaps the very young  children) who was not aching for the trams and the shops, the cinemas and the  noise of his london.
indeed, the londoner prefers that it shall have no style.
down  the river, as far s the eye can see, stretch mile after mile of docks; for  london, as well as being the world's greatest city, is also the world's  greatest port.
almost below st paul's is a great open space, now cleared of its war-time  dust and rubble, where stood ave maria lane, paternoster row and paternoster  square, the haunts of booklovers, which perished in the second great fire of  london started on the night of december 29, 1940, by the enemy incendiary  bombs.
looking down on the city of london from the top of ludgate hill is st paul's cathedral, christopher wren's masterpiece.
the suggestion is that the population is constantly being recruited by immigrants from villages and other british towns and cities.
the most valuable communal qualities seem to be most  highly developed amongst those whose lives are limited gy economic  circumstances.
no hard-luck story ever fails to find a helping hand.
greater london covers an area of about seven hundred square miles and (although no census has been taken since 1931) has a population of over eight million souls.
even the king may not enter the city without the lord mayor's permission, and when he does cross the boundary fromwestminster at temple bar, he is to this day handed the keys of the city, although the old gates no longer remain, and is received as the city's honoured guest.
to the poet henley on an october  day; trafalgar square (the fountains volleying golden glaze) gleams like an angel-market.
dan leno, pathetically puzzled because his audience didn't "know mrs kelly," the "vital and gusty" marie lloyd, that genius of friendly, high-spirited naughtiness, the stout, genial herbert campbell, the philosophic alec hurley advising.
it is possible that the londoner's devotion to disorder will, to some extent, foil the architects and the planners.
when they arrive, they nearly  always hate london.
adjoining the city to the west is part of westminster, the richest of the  london boroughs, created a city by royal charter as recently as 1900.
this suggests that london is cosmopolitan, but this is  only partially true.
the first new routemaster bus begins running on a route from victoria  station to east london.
with, alas, small devotion or regard for religion, and still with negligible appreciation of the things of the mind and the imagination; his life is lived in obedience to the one command, "judge not, that ye be not judged!"
here is the bank of england; here are the city guilds, the livery companies, whose members are freemen of the city, have complete self-government and appoint their ruler in the person of the lord mayor.
a retired british businessman being held in the us for allegedly selling batteries for iranian missiles is due in court on monday.
the met is investigating a "network of corrupt officials" as part of its inquiries into phone hacking and police corruption, the leveson inquiry hears.
these areas today are self-governing and are no longer responsible to the county administration.
one of the most grievous losses is the music-hall, the shrine and the  preserver of genuine cockney humour.
new routemaster bus starts work
it is said, i do not know whether accurately or not, that it is rare to  discover a londoner of more than the forth generation.
if one of them is arrested by the police he is commonly described as  "being in trouble."
but - and this is the  marvel of london - with all the misuse and lazy indifference, even with the  horror of the new suburbs built after the first world war, london like myself  an appealing and attractive cosiness, hardly to be found anywhere else.
for centuries ships have passed up and down  our oldest road, carrying, in h. m. tomlinson's words, "those unknown folk  whose mind created london out of reeds and mere."
go up to the stone gallery and look out across the ancient city!
on the whole, the londoner is more courteous than the  parisian, the new yorker or the man of manchester and leeds.
the met is investigating a "network of corrupt officials" as part  of its inquiries into phone hacking and police corruption, the leveson inquiry  hears.
possibly, possibly not.
even this statement is not quite true, for, with the development of fast electric trains over a growing network of suburban lines, of the motor-car and the green line coach, london's dormitories now reach to the south coast, from eastbourne to worthing.
the obedient cockney child now replies "o.k., chief," to  every instruction.
but london  has little pride in the fact.
he has no use for the man who "chucks his weight about."
but, in spite of all these changes the londoner is as he  has always been.
whitehall houses the departments  of state.
the bloomsbury and  bayswater squares have much the same history, and no one can explain why  bayswater now houses the working respectable middle class in its  boarding-houses, while bloomsbury has become the home of the student and the  intelligentsia, as no one can explain why london's few painters moved first  from st john's wood tochelsea, and now from chelsea to camden town and hampstead , as the paris bohemians have moved from the heights of montmartre across the  river to montparnasse.
frank dobie says that "the english belong to the realm of  naturalness."
"what i miss  ‘ere,' said a bermondsey woman, a war village evacuee, "is my  neighbours."
this seems to contradict  my assertion that the londoner has small care for beauty.
how comparatively lazy he is i discovered  when i took to living among the industrious people of a small agricultural  village.
it was originally a walled city, and traces of the old roman wall can still be seen, particularly at the tower.
this seems to contradict my assertion that the londoner has small care for beauty.
nor is there any  common authority for the administration of greater london, for the area  includes not only the whole of middlesex, but also a large part ofsurrey,  hertfordshire, essex and kent.
but london is a plan-less city, every growing, without sense or reason, an octopus of bricks and mortar, steel and concrete.
baby p's father sues for libel
apart from these suburban lines, london has its own vast transport system, operated by the london passenger transport board.
when they arrive, they nearly always hate london.
he will kick hard against economic grievances, but derby day or a football tie will drive serious concerns from his mind.
he agrees with dibdin, "what agrifies snivelling and piping your  eye?"
kings have passed up and down the river in picturesque pageantry, cheerful pleasure-seekers like mr pepys have gone by river to boisterous evenings at vauxhall.
to the londoner, trafalgar square is the place where the children feed the  pigeons and trade unionists demonstrate on sunday afternoons.
the natural father of baby peter sues the people newspaper for £130,000 for printing "one of the gravest libels imaginable".
the rich, who are nowadays selling  their mansions to commercial firms, have been for generations only sojourners  in london, and rarely there from fridays to mondays.
he can laugh at almost everything.
its historical possessions are for the most part unappreciated.
but the newcomers soon lose all the distinctive  qualities of the places from which they came.
london is less of a world city than paris, and is much  less cosmopolitan than new york.
the tiny suburban gardens and the flower-pots on the tenement window-sills  suggest the londoners love of flowers.
there are, again superficially, many londons - rich london and poor london, literary london and artistic london, virtuous london and raffish london and suburban london.
the historic square mile of the city of london stands on the north bank of the thames.
just where tower bridge crosses the river is the tower of london, a grim  grey sentinel, embodying almost nine hundred years of london's history, while  scattered throughout the city you can see graceful spires of wren's churches,  many of them, alas, now irreparably damaged by the bombing of the second world  war.
no true londoner was ever a disciple of dr  smiles.
the bloomsbury and bayswater squares have much the same history, and no one can explain why bayswater now houses the working respectable middle class in its boarding-houses, while bloomsbury has become the home of the student and the intelligentsia, as no one can explain why london's few painters moved first from st john's wood tochelsea, and now from chelsea to camden town and hampstead , as the paris bohemians have moved from the heights of montmartre across the river to montparnasse.
it has changed, indeed, in my lifetime.
the london that successfully resisted christopher wren's efforts to make it symmetrical and comely is now to be planned by sir patrick abercormbie.
within it are the houses of parliament, the abbey, the law courts, buckingham palace, and most of the older finest buildings in london.
the first new routemaster bus begins running on a route from victoria station to east london.
within it  are the houses of parliament, the abbey, the law courts, buckingham palace, and  most of the older finest buildings in london.
experience has  taught him to expect very little.
"what i miss ‘ere,' said a bermondsey woman, a war village evacuee, "is my neighbours."
the italians in soho and  saffron hill were never londoners.
the difficulty is to decide exactly what is meant by london, for there are in fact several ‘londons' for different purposes, and none is exactly the same as the other.
*if nothing is found relating to these terms amazon  will display a selection of books from the general best seller list.
below is the winding ribbon of the thames, crossed by blackfriars, southwark, london and the tower bridges, and the railway bridges from cannon street and blackfriars stations.
he is not surprised when he receives nothing.
it permits  "improvers" to destroy its beauties with a ruthlessness almost equal  to that of the german bombers.
almost below st paul's is a great open space, now cleared of its war-time dust and rubble, where stood ave maria lane, paternoster row and paternoster square, the haunts of booklovers, which perished in the second great fire of london started on the night of december 29, 1940, by the enemy incendiary bombs.
frank dobie says that "the english belong to the realm of naturalness."
london is less of a world city than paris, and is much less cosmopolitan than new york.
it covers an area of 74,850 acres, stretching from poplar in the east to  hammersmith in the west - from the northern heights of hampstead to the  southern heights of sydenham, topped by the ghost of the crystal palace.
king edward the confessor dedicated the  abbey church ofwestminster to st peter because of the legend that the saint  appeared on the river bank atwestminster and there, as a reward for the  fishermen who ferried him across, he ordained that the man should catch "  a plentiful supply of fish of which the greater part should be salmon.
the londoner, says thomas burke, is "vital and gusty," he is also  knowing and kindly.
as such it has no official status.
this vast area is coincident with the metropolitan police district, and the writ of the metropolitan police runs throughout it.
it is not the west front that interests londoners, but what william morris called, "the beastly monuments to fools and knaves."
nor is there any common authority for the administration of greater london, for the area includes not only the whole of middlesex, but also a large part ofsurrey, hertfordshire, essex and kent.
historical notes about greater london greater london london is the most higgledy-piggledy of all the world's great cities.
beauty, order and seemliness are to take  the place of the traditional higgledy-piggledy.
the familiar little knots of women, gossiping outside the little houses or on the balconies of the tenements, are regarded by the censorious as examples of slatternly laziness.
this instinctive revolt against "the daily round," the weary  task, derives from the fact that the londoner is sufficiently interested in the  trivial to resent being compelled to spend his time with the serious.
in the mean streets is commonly heard the remark, "i didn't arf
why, for example, should semi-countrified hampstead be in london and grim, squalid entirely, and often hideously, urban  tottenham and willesden be outside?
the londoner is natural only when he is free to give himself  to the frivolous - darts and football pools and the cultivation of a back  garden.
its people admire bush house because it is large, but leave american tourists to admire st james's palace.
the obedient cockney child now replies "o.k., chief," to every instruction.
"it's the pore that ‘elps' the pore"  is a london truism.
westminster abbey, a supremely beautiful possession and the burial-place of the nation's heroes, is to london not a monument of loveliness bequeathed to us by the ages of faith, but a sort of madame tussaud's.
westminster abbey, a supremely beautiful possession and the burial-place  of the nation's heroes, is to london not a monument of loveliness bequeathed to  us by the ages of faith, but a sort of madame tussaud's.
the londoner's character frank dobie notes that there are more birds in london than in any other  great city, and he suggests that this is indicative of the character of its  people.
there is little that is secretive about either.
it is, too, in a  diminishing degree, its playground.
helping hands there are pessimists who declare that the london kindliness that dickens  dramatically describes over and over again has been destroyed by the hard  trials of the war.
novelty has no attraction for him.
source logo news items station stabbing accused guilty a woman is found guilty of conspiracy in the case of a schoolboy who was  stabbed to death at victoria tube station.
it is the  vast collection of streets, factories and houses along both banks of the  thames, with a centre at charing cross, and reaching out in every direction  over a radius of at least fifteen miles.
it is, too, in a diminishing degree, its playground.
in fact, it embraces not only london as a working centre, but also the dormitories of its workers.
this is due to better schools, the  radio and the cinema.
big ben tour charge 'a disgrace' plans to charge visitors £15 to climb the tower containing big ben  are condemned as "a disgrace" by an mp.
there  is no kindlier place on earth than the london of the mean street, even if there  are few noisier places than oxford street in the rush hours.
the respect  for the law with which the londoner is often credited is, in fact, vastly  exaggerated.
there is no kindlier place on earth than the london of the mean street, even if there are few noisier places than oxford street in the rush hours.
wordsworth,  standing onwestminster bridge in the morning exclaimed: earth has not  anything to show more fair: dull would he be of soul who could pass by a sight so touching in its majesty.
"it  might have been worse," is the summary of his philosophy.
yet they stand for london's mateyness - little knots of sympathetic and understanding friends sharing their troubles and laughing at their misfortunes.
in fact, it embraces not only london as a  working centre, but also the dormitories of its workers.
looking down on the city of london from the top of ludgate hill is st  paul's cathedral, christopher wren's masterpiece.
or another journey of discovery might be from the west end to the streets between lisson grove and the edgware road, going westward to the slums ofpaddington - some of the worst slums left in london - and so to the mean streets of royalkensington, that are little better.
beauty, order and seemliness are to take the place of the traditional higgledy-piggledy.
but the parks have been imposed on the city by authority in a past age, and the londoner's interest in the often gorgeous flower-beds is perfunctory and in the trees disastrous.
indeed, the londoner  prefers that it shall have no style.
inquiry told of corrupt 'network'
kings have passed up and down the river in picturesque  pageantry, cheerful pleasure-seekers like mr pepys have gone by river to  boisterous evenings at vauxhall.
yet - so contrary a creature is man - the londoner hates change.
but, i am told, frugal italian restaurant-keepers have proved by experiment that even the deftest cooking cannot make london pigeon edible.
for centuries ships have passed up and down our oldest road, carrying, in h. m. tomlinson's words, "those unknown folk whose mind created london out of reeds and mere."
prudential may shift hq from uk the prudential, the uk's biggest insurer, is considering moving its  headquarters from london to hong kong.
but london is a melting-pot for the folk whom it receives.
go up to the stone gallery  and look out across the ancient city!
thomas burke, whose writings have proved his deep love for london, a charles lamb-like love, has written: "when you can perceive the spiritual difference between the squares of bloomsbury and the squares of bayswater, between the sadness of the caledonian road and the melancholy of the ball's pond road you are beginning to know london."
just where tower bridge crosses the river is the tower of london, a grim grey sentinel, embodying almost nine hundred years of london's history, while scattered throughout the city you can see graceful spires of wren's churches, many of them, alas, now irreparably damaged by the bombing of the second world war.
the londoner is miserable in the country after a few days.
but - and this is the marvel of london - with all the misuse and lazy indifference, even with the horror of the new suburbs built after the first world war, london like myself an appealing and attractive cosiness, hardly to be found anywhere else.
he is the born loafer forced by hand necessity to labour, and there has never been a song more certain of the londoner's applause than the ditty of which the chorus ran:standing at the corner watching other fellers work.
below is the winding ribbon of the  thames, crossed by blackfriars, southwark, london and the tower bridges, and  the railway bridges from cannon street and blackfriars stations.
consequently none of the popular social movements that led to the labour party triumph in 1945 began in london, though london has always been sympathetic.
thomas burke, whose writings have proved his deep love for london, a  charles lamb-like love, has written: "when you can perceive the spiritual  difference between the squares of bloomsbury and the squares of bayswater,  between the sadness of the caledonian road and the melancholy of the ball's  pond road you are beginning to know london."
between london and tower bridges is the pool of london, with its docks and cranes.
he is the born loafer forced by hand necessity to labour, and there  has never been a song more certain of the londoner's applause than the ditty of  which the chorus ran: standing at the corner watching other fellers work.
the city is the capital of commerce and finance.
"here is a church . . . .
but, however that may be, i do not doubt that the londoner of tomorrow will be the close kin of the londoner of yesterday.
the coming of the cinema and the hollywood film has revolutionized london's  language.
he can laugh  at almost everything.
and the means scanty.
a woman is found guilty of conspiracy in the case of a schoolboy who was stabbed to death at victoria tube station.
with, alas, small  devotion or regard for religion, and still with negligible appreciation of the  things of the mind and the imagination; his life is lived in obedience to the  one command, "judge not, that ye be not judged!"
the memory of its ancient gates is perpetuated in the names of such streets as moorgate, ludgate and bishopsgate.
between london  and tower bridges is the pool of london, with its docks and cranes.
the italians in soho and saffron hill were never londoners.
the boundaries of the county of london have been arbitrarily settled  without apparent rhyme or reason.
there is  a browning road outside the city area.
most of the  people who were removed from overcrowded stepney to the model streets of  dagenham sadly missed the familiar "local," the old neighbours, even  the unsanitary home.
the historic square mile of the city of london stands on the north bank of  the thames.
apart from these suburban lines, london has its own vast transport system,  operated by the london passenger transport board.
london enjoys the incongruous and half welcomes the unexpected, even when it is misfortune.
it houses a population of nearly four and half million people and embraces twenty-nine separate administrative entities, consisting of two cities - london andwestminster - and twenty seven boroughs - namely: hammersmith, fulham, kensington, chelsea, paddington, marylebone, hampstead, st pancras, holborn, finsbury, islington, stoke newington, shoreditch, stepney, bethnal green, hackney, poplar, woolwich, greenwich, lewisham, deptford, bermondsey, southwark, camberwell, lambeth, battersea, and wandsworth.
however, it is true that the londoner is as essentially kindly as he is  cosy, and the kindness is most apparent in the districts where the streets are  mean
dan leno, pathetically puzzled because his  audience didn't "know mrs kelly," the "vital and gusty"  marie lloyd, that genius of friendly, high-spirited naughtiness, the stout,  genial herbert campbell, the philosophic alec hurley advising.
so was  archbishop laud, who centuries after st thomas died, was taken down the river  from lambeth to die in the tower, and, as he passed, the people lined the  river-bank and wept.
his parks, too, are beautiful, or were  until the military had their way with them in the war.
," when some unforeseen misfortune has occurred.
it can be tragically foolish and acutely wise.
but it is in struggling london that the genuine londonner is to be found, and,  when he is found and understood, he will be recognized as a kindly easy-going,  indifferent man.
playing the fool the londoner is apt to be frivolous-minded.
but, and here is one of the  many london oddities, there is an exception, for that writ does not run within  the bounds of thecity of london, which is a law unto itself.
the county of greater london is located in the south eastern counties of england, it covers an administrative area of 1,580km² and in 2001 was home to a population of 7,172,000 persons, that represents 14.60% of that of england and 0.12% of the population of the entire united kingdom.
he is never really happy except when he is playing the  fool.
greater london is the administrative county of london, the area  with which i am concerned in this article.
but the londoner who crosses the bridge twice every day on his way to and  from work is wholly unaware of the beauty that wordsworth felt so keenly.
greater london covers an area of about  seven hundred square miles and (although no census has been taken since 1931)  has a population of over eight million souls.
it can be dignified and  undignified.
their songs were banal, their humour was robustly coarse, they were natural.
yet they stand for london's mateyness - little knots of  sympathetic and understanding friends sharing their troubles and laughing at  their misfortunes.
"here is a church . . . .," said mr wemmick, "let's have a wedding."
there is a browning road outside the city area.
he will kick hard against economic grievances, but derby  day or a football tie will drive serious concerns from his mind.
or another  journey of discovery might be from the west end to the streets between lisson  grove and the edgware road, going westward to the slums ofpaddington - some of  the worst slums left in london - and so to the mean streets of royalkensington,  that are little better.
the village after a time settles more or less happily in  london.
there is little that  is secretive about either.
here is the bank of  england; here are the city guilds, the livery companies, whose members are  freemen of the city, have complete self-government and appoint their ruler in  the person of the lord mayor.
one of the most grievous losses is the music-hall, the shrine and the preserver of genuine cockney humour.
the poor are affected by their environment because they rarely  escape from that environment.
where he is, there he wants to remain.
but  london is a melting-pot for the folk whom it receives.
but the newcomers soon lose all the distinctive qualities of the places from which they came.
incidentally, is it safe to say that dickens would no  find the caledonian road wholly sad or the ball's pond road entirely  melancholy?
the accent not only of the wellers, but also of the londoner  of forty years ago, has almost disappeared.
a 16-year-old boy is in a stable condition after being stabbed in the  street outside a hotel in north-west london.
london is at the beginning of another, and this time, may be, the most  fundamental, of its many changes.
click the logo to go online at the store more info about asda opticians more info about asda living more info about knickerbox more info about tesco extra more info about tesco metro
this instinctive revolt against "the daily round," the weary task, derives from the fact that the londoner is sufficiently interested in the trivial to resent being compelled to spend his time with the serious.
it is evident, again i add at least to me, in the ordinary  traffic of everyday life.
the colony of german jews inhampstead, for example remains definitely, often uncomfortably, german, spiritually as the poles asunder from the assimilated english jews.
the boundaries of the county of london have been arbitrarily settled without apparent rhyme or reason.
the colony of german jews inhampstead,  for example remains definitely, often uncomfortably, german, spiritually as the  poles asunder from the assimilated english jews.
unlike their compatriots in new york, few of  them sought naturalization.
why, for example, should semi-countrified hampstead be in london and grim, squalid entirely, and often hideously, urban tottenham and willesden be outside?
it is possible that more great men have walked in its streets than in the streets of any other city except paris.
the familiar little knots of women, gossiping outside the little houses or  on the balconies of the tenements, are regarded by the censorious as examples  of slatternly laziness.
the result ought to be, and almost always is, repellent ugliness and heartbreaking discomfort.
ealing london borough enfield london borough greenwich london borough hackney london borough hammersmith and fulham london borough haringey london borough harrow london borough havering london borough hillingdon london borough hounslow london borough islington london borough kensington and chelsea london borough kingston upon thames london borough lambeth london borough lewisham london borough london city merton london borough newham london borough redbridge london borough richmond upon thames london borough southwark london borough sutton london borough tower hamlets london borough waltham forest london borough wandsworth london borough westminster city london is the most higgledy-piggledy of all the world's great cities.
max beerbhom once said that he always pitied the wrong-doer,  since he generally has a bad time.
the suggestion is that  the population is constantly being recruited by immigrants from villages and  other british towns and cities.
the natural father of baby peter sues the people newspaper for  £130,000 for printing "one of the gravest libels imaginable".
frank dobie notes that there are more birds in london than in any other great city, and he suggests that this is indicative of the character of its people.
"here is an open space," says the londoner, "let's build a house."
if one of them is arrested by the police he is commonly described as "being in trouble."
most of the people who were removed from overcrowded stepney to the model streets of dagenham sadly missed the familiar "local," the old neighbours, even the unsanitary home.
wordsworth, standing onwestminster bridge in the morning exclaimed:earth has not anything to show more fair: but the londoner who crosses the bridge twice every day on his way to and from work is wholly unaware of the beauty that wordsworth felt so keenly.
but, it seems to me these  alleged differences are either superficial or imaginary.
unlike st paul, he never puts away childish things.
the cockney now says, "yeah" and not the old-time "yuss."
it is cleaner,  healthier and more comely.
he finds occasion for laughter when other men would weep.
his own patch or his own flower-pots supply the means of growing  something under difficulties; for they are a gamble, and appeal to the  londoner's sporting instinct.
the truth is that london is as knowable as the man on the bus.
there are pessimists who declare that the london kindliness that dickens dramatically describes over and over again has been destroyed by the hard trials of the war.
selected uk retailers click the logo to go online at the store more info about asda opticians more info about asda living more info about knickerbox more info about tesco extra more info about tesco metro details of 100's more uk stores available here rss local news feed for greater london from the bbc bbc news - london mon, 27 feb 2012 20:30:10 gmt
but, in spite of all these changes the londoner is as he has always been.
he detests being "ordered about," and, in so far as he obeys the laws and regulations without more than humorous protest, he does so from that consideration for others that is the londoner's virtue - from, that is, his mateyness.
his own patch or his own flower-pots supply the means of growing something under difficulties; for they are a gamble, and appeal to the londoner's sporting instinct.