just what is the art of 'melisma'?
mr sowter explained; "neither paris nor london are cheap cities but it  was the cost of tuition fees in london that pushed london's rating down by 13  points.
london scored well on the quality and reputation of its universities,  including imperial college, university college london and king's college london.
by judith burns  education reporter, bbc news
measures of affordability included the cost of a burger and the amount charged for tuition.
but other uk cities scored well, with manchester coming 35th, birmingham  47th and glasgow 50th.
mr sowter explained; "neither paris nor london are cheap cities but it was the cost of tuition fees in london that pushed london's rating down by 13 points.
the research team considered nearly 500 cities, shortlisted just under 100  and are publishing the top 50.
they also looked at student mix which includes both the overall number of  students and proportion from overseas.
2011-2012 top universities ulu students union - the home for ulu university students ucl - london's global university
" "we should remember that studying in a big city is the right choice  for some, but it's not for everyone.
" liam burns, president of the national union of students, said the ranking  was a testament to the hard work of london's universities and students' unions  to attract students from around the globe.
the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites teenagers in england are eating less fatty food and more vegetables than previous generations but some are skipping meals to lose weight, according to research.
ben sowter, lead researcher on qs best student cities, said that though london had more world class universities than paris it was more expensive.
haitian migrants flock to small town in north carolina
cambridge holds rankings top slot 05
the rankings are aimed at international students  who are deciding where to do their degrees continue reading the main story related stories scots unis appear in world elite us dominates university rankings london has come second, beaten only by paris, in a ranking of the world's  50 best cities for students.
measures of affordability included the cost of a burger and the amount  charged for tuition.
researchers considered cities with populations of more than 250,000 and home to two or more top universities.
female genital mutilation still rife in egypt despite ban how one group of friends set up india's first organised bus ticket service turmoil in the maldives as former president mohamed nasheed says no to unity government plan search term: bbc © 2012
"we are proud of our campuses across the uk in offering a range of  learning and living environments for those not lured in by the bright  lights.
continue reading the main story top ten best student cities 1.
mr sowter said: "while high tuition fees make london a far more  expensive proposition than paris, london's array of world-class universities  means it is worth the investment for many student."
ben sowter, lead researcher on qs best student cities, said that though  london had more world class universities than paris it was more expensive.
but fees - calculated in this survey as £20,000 a year for international students from outside the european union - meant that london lost out against paris, where they are just £1,000 a year.
but fees - calculated in this survey as £20,000 a year for  international students from outside the european union - meant that london lost  out against paris, where they are just £1,000 a year.
the ranking is primarily aimed at international students who are  considering where to study.
while you will be able to view the content of this page in your current browser, you will not be able to get the full visual experience.
september 2011, education &  family related internet links qs world university rankings?
but he warned: "if london is to continue to be such an attractive  place to study we need to see urgent action to address the spiralling cost of  student living.
more on this story 'consumer culture' degree warning 15 november 2011, education & family scots unis appear in world elite 06 october 2011, scotland politics us dominates university rankings 05 october 2011, education & family oxford head warns of lost talent 04 october 2011, education & family
please consider upgrading your browser software or enabling style sheets (css) if you are able to do so.
london scored well on the quality and reputation of its universities, including imperial college, university college london and king's college london.
"we are proud of our campuses across the uk in offering a range of learning and living environments for those not lured in by the bright lights.
mr sowter said: "while high tuition fees make london a far more expensive proposition than paris, london's array of world-class universities means it is worth the investment for many student.
the two cities did similarly well on quality of life, student mix and how well employers rated their universities as a source of good recruits.
" "we should remember that studying in a big city is the right choice for some, but it's not for everyone.
the research team considered nearly 500 cities, shortlisted just under 100 and are publishing the top 50.continue reading the main story they looked at indicators such as "quality of life", which included measures of crime and the cost of living.
but he warned: "if london is to continue to be such an attractive place to study we need to see urgent action to address the spiralling cost of student living.
bbc accessibility links london has come second, beaten only by paris, in a ranking of the world's 50 best cities for students.
researchers considered cities with populations of more than 250,000 and  home to two or more top universities.
but other uk cities scored well, with manchester coming 35th, birmingham 47th and glasgow 50th.
the bbc is not responsible for the content of external sites.
print london 'second to paris in best student cities'
"it poses a real threat to the affordability of studying in the  capital and therefore to the future sustainability of this world renowned  status.
the two cities did similarly well on quality of life, student mix and how  well employers rated their universities as a source of good recruits.
the ranking is primarily aimed at international students who are considering where to study.
they looked at affordability and quality of life as well as the number and  reputation of universities.
"it poses a real threat to the affordability of studying in the capital and therefore to the future sustainability of this world renowned status.
how did people lose their fear of nuclear war?
they also looked at student mix which includes both the overall number of students and proportion from overseas.
this page is best viewed in an up-to-date web browser with style sheets (css) enabled.
" the fact that the ranking only looked at large centres of population meant  that some of the uk's best known university cities were left out.
" liam burns, president of the national union of students, said the ranking was a testament to the hard work of london's universities and students' unions to attract students from around the globe.
montreal, canada they looked at indicators such as "quality of life", which  included measures of crime and the cost of living.
" the fact that the ranking only looked at large centres of population meant that some of the uk's best known university cities were left out.
they looked at affordability and quality of life as well as the number and reputation of universities.