we also offer guided instructionalphoto  tours and workshops to individuals and groups as well as portrait sessions.
she studied journalism in st. petersburg university in russia, and spent her early career as a journalist for a photography magazine and a photographer for an architecture magazine.
view elena's: paris gallery | portrait gallery manon is a canadian photographer based in paris.
originally from the lake  district of england, hermione fell in love with paris -- as many people do --  on her first visit and has lived here pretty much ever since.
her appetite for life and beauty makes her learning sessions unique moments that combine technical instruction with guidance on artistic vision.
she loves walking the streets with her camera,  discovering new views of a city.
view elena's: paris gallery | portrait gallery manon francoeur, photographer manon is a canadian photographer based in paris.
originally from the lake district of england, hermione fell in love with paris -- as many people do -- on her first visit and has lived here pretty much ever since.
to visitors to paris, potential visitors, and even those who may currently  only dream of visiting, we provideinformation and advice and several books  about photography in this great city.
sophie delivers many photo tours and portrait sessions, and personally  leads the multi-day group workshops in paris.
better paris photos is powered by a love for photography, a fascination for paris, and most importantly a passion for helping others experience both of them together!
view manon's: paris gallery louise picard, client support canadian by birth, louise has lived in paris for several years.
she enjoys passionate talks about photography and likes to help people discover new surroundings.
working  initially as the community coordinator at the canadian embassy allowed her to  discover the many facets of life in paris.
she enjoys passionate  talks about photography and likes to help people discover new surroundings.
view hermione's: paris gallery | portrait gallery elena can often be found wandering the streets of paris with her favourite leica camera capturing this city’s magical scenery.
to visitors to paris, potential visitors, and even those who may currently only dream of visiting, we provideinformation and advice and several books about photography in this great city.
she founded better paris photos and continues to oversee the delivery of her original vision that visitors have the best photography education experience in paris.
sophie has been a photographer, educator and traveller for most of her  adult life.
she studied photography at leeds university and london college of communication, and worked for a time with photographers john swannell (in london) and yves gellie (in paris).
a natural communicator, sophie takes great pleasure in sharing her knowledge, experience, and love of photography with others.
whether you are a beginner photographer with a point and shoot, or an advanced photographer with the latest slr, we are committed to ensuring that you have the best photography experience possible in paris, the city of light!
hermione currently leads private and small group photo tours and delivers ‘you in paris’ portrait sessions.
manon  currently assists sophie with the multi-day workshops and will start leading  photo tours on her own later this spring.
a natural communicator, sophie takes great pleasure in  sharing her knowledge, experience, and love of photography with others.
introducing the team... sophie pasquet, founder & photographer
contact us if you have any questions, please feel free to contact us at any time.
she  is passionate about photography and her minimalist style brings out the essence  of life around her.
at better paris photos, louise applies her zen like focus and resourcefulness in taking care of all our clients’ non photography-related needs, from registration through to post-activity follow up.
she studied  journalism in st. petersburg university in russia, and spent her early career  as a journalist for a photography magazine and a photographer for an  architecture magazine.
descriptionoverview of our customized photo tours tour destinationsa few suggestions for possible itineraries testimonialswhat clients are saying about the tours tour faqanswers to frequently asked questions registrationsecure on-line registration for all tours workshopsgroup instruction descriptionoverview of our scheduled photo workshops programmehow and where we will spend our time workshop faqanswers to frequently asked questions registrationreserve a spot through on-line registration portraitsyou in paris galleryparis photos about us better paris photos is powered by a love for photography, a fascination for paris, and most importantly a  passion for helping others experience both of them together!
in her portrait photography, elena captures the  relationship between individuals and their urban environment, and loves in  particular to record the astonishment and pleasure of visitors as they discover  the beauty of paris.
at better paris photos, louise applies her  zen like focus and resourcefulness in taking care of all our clients’ non  photography-related needs, from registration through to post-activity follow up.
seeking additional partners we are always looking for new partnerships and collaborations around photography and photography education.
when she is not indulging her  passion for fashion by visiting the city’s many vintage boutiques, she is  out exploring its many parks and gardens to discover new places to practice  ‘walking meditation’.
manon is also a fine organizer and no details are left out with her.
elena conducts ‘you in paris’ portrait sessions and leads photo tours in paris.
hermione  currently leads private and small group photo tours and delivers ‘you in  paris’ portrait sessions.
manon currently assists sophie with the multi-day workshops and will start leading photo tours on her own later this spring.
being in paris is a real treat for her!
ourpartnership page provides more detail.
born and raised in france, she lived for many years in canada.
whether you are a beginner photographer with a point and shoot, or an  advanced photographer with the latest slr, we are committed to ensuring that  you have the best photography experience possible in paris, the city of light!
her appetite for life and beauty makes her learning  sessions unique moments that combine technical instruction with guidance on  artistic vision.
view manon's: paris gallery canadian by birth, louise has lived in paris for several years.
seeking additional partners we are always looking for new partnerships and collaborations around  photography and photography education.
contact louise if you have questions
she has also lived in india, syria and china.
she has also lived in  india, syria and china.
sophie delivers many photo tours and portrait sessions, and personally leads the multi-day group workshops in paris.
in her portrait photography, elena captures the relationship between individuals and their urban environment, and loves in particular to record the astonishment and pleasure of visitors as they discover the beauty of paris.
we also offer guided instructionalphoto tours and workshops to individuals and groups as well as portrait sessions.
view sophie's: paris gallery | portrait gallery
when she is not indulging her passion for fashion by visiting the city’s many vintage boutiques, she is out exploring its many parks and gardens to discover new places to practice ‘walking meditation’.
introducing the team...
elena conducts ‘you in paris’ portrait sessions  and leads photo tours in paris.
she is passionate about photography and her minimalist style brings out the essence of life around her.
she studied photography at leeds university and  london college of communication, and worked for a time with photographers john  swannell (in london) and yves gellie (in paris).
working initially as the community coordinator at the canadian embassy allowed her to discover the many facets of life in paris.
view sophie's: paris gallery | portrait gallery hermione mccosh, photographer
manon has studied photography with well-know photographers both in canada and usa, and has exhibited her work in art galleries in canada.
as a natural people person, hermione thrives in interacting with  photography enthusiasts on photo tours and in capturing the personality of  visitors through portraiture.
sophie has been a photographer, educator and traveller for most of her adult life.
she loves walking the streets with her camera, discovering new views of a city.
she  founded better paris photos and continues to oversee the delivery of her  original vision that visitors have the best photography education experience in  paris.
manon  has studied photography with well-know photographers both in canada and usa,  and has exhibited her work in art galleries in canada.
as a natural people person, hermione thrives in interacting with photography enthusiasts on photo tours and in capturing the personality of visitors through portraiture.
view hermione's: paris gallery | portrait gallery elena usacheva, photographer elena can often be found wandering the streets of paris with her favourite  leica camera capturing this city’s magical scenery.