furthermore, the iasb board should enter into a constructive dialogue with the  industry.
- insurance: the reform of the prudential framework with the solvency ii directive is a major step forward and a top priority.
to enlarge this level of consensus, paris europlace and the city of london agreed to set up few task forces to identify and document specific issues on critical and important areas.
cebs should be given the task to monitor coherence  between those colleges.
even if the implementation of this process is globally a success, the three  level three committees, should be gradually reinforced with regards to  resources, decision making rules and visibility.
secondly paris europlace and the city of london have identified five business priorities for 2008: - asset management: ucits iv directive is a major priority in order to finalise the global competitiveness of the european fund industry.
lord mayor david lewis, who is the global ambassador for the uk-based  financial services industry, said “despite current world turmoil,  financial markets are still the key to economic growth and there is no way to  avoid the fact that in a globalised world our financial services must be  competitive on a global basis”.
consequently, the governance of the iasb board should be adjusted to take on board such needs and be articulated with national or regional processes integrating those standards.
recent initiatives and evaluation process will come to a conclusion in a few months, but it appears that the interoperability and the segregation between general interest and commercial functions, which are the main issues addressed by the code, may not be reached.
this is expected to solve some giovannini barriers and improve interoperability conditions for market infrastructures.
the lamfalussy process must be  improved following the "better regulation" principle.
a consensus was reached on the way ahead for european financial integration  and on the framework of priorities to be delivered in order to lead the global  competition.
- pensions: it is suitable to develop pan european pension products, with a harmonized and economic based prudential framework.
even if the implementation of this process is globally a success, the three level three committees, should be gradually reinforced with regards to resources, decision making rules and visibility.
therefore a targeted harmonization process should be a prerequisite to trigger  more progress in the european retail banking market.
policy chairman stuart fraser, whose elected role to the city centres on issues such as working with europe, said: “the key priority is: furthering europe’s integration, in order to take advantage as soon as possible of the domestic market of 500 millions citizens and in turn strengthening the global efficiency”.
especially in the view of a  more efficient prudential supervision of pan european groups, the priority  shall be given to the functioning of the college of supervisors and to a lead  home supervisor concept.
those proposals should be driven by effective cost reductions, precise governance principles to manage the relevant projects in the interest of all parties concerned and assuring its ability to evolve at the right speed to respond to users’ needs.
secondly paris europlace and the city of london have identified five  business priorities for 2008: asset management: ucits iv directive is a major priority in order to  finalise the global competitiveness of the european fund industry.
there is a view that the code of conduct will fail to deliver all initial expectations.
it’s essential to ensure that the ucits framework fosters  financial innovation.
there is a view that the code of conduct will fail to  deliver all initial expectations.
pensions: it is suitable to develop pan european pension products, with a  harmonized and economic based prudential framework.
o | p | q | r | s | t |
a joint committee was co-chaired by michel pébereau, chairman of bnp paribas and andré villeneuve, chairman of city of london eu advisory group, and was joined by city of london lord mayor david lewis and the city of london corporation’s policy chairman stuart fraser, during their official visit to france prior to the eu presidency.
cebs should be given the task to monitor coherence between those colleges.
the economic assessment of the risks and requirements concerning groups  must be carried out at the consolidated level.
furthermore, michel pébereau adds that “in order to increase european financial services’ global competitiveness, targeted harmonisation initiatives should be launched on following topics: asset management, insurance, retail banking and post trade” two important areas of concerns highlighted under the french presidency: first, in order to ensure financial stability, the eu regulatory framework must secure closer supervisory coordination.
policy chairman stuart fraser, whose elected role to the city centres on  issues such as working with europe, said: “the key priority is:  furthering europe’s integration, in order to take advantage as soon as  possible of the domestic market of 500 millions citizens and in turn  strengthening the global efficiency”.
in this respect, crucial choices will have to be done to ensure that the  new reform will effectively really modernize the insurance supervision and take  into account risks appropriately: the minimum capital requirements (mcr) calculation must use a risk  sensitive methodology in line with the solvency capital requirement (scr).
it should be pragmatically applied, on selected topics and on  condition that common principles maintain a level playing field between defined  areas.
- retail banking: harmonisation of consumer protection rules is key to provide more choice and to reduce prices for retail financial products.
furthermore, michel pébereau adds that “in order to increase  european financial services’ global competitiveness, targeted  harmonisation initiatives should be launched on following topics: asset  management, insurance, retail banking and post trade” two important areas of concerns highlighted under the french presidency: first, in order to ensure financial stability, the eu regulatory framework  must secure closer supervisory coordination.
it should be pragmatically applied, on selected topics and on condition that common principles maintain a level playing field between defined areas.
overall it was deemed necessary to improve the conditions of the european integration whilst respecting global best practices and avoiding overregulation and bureaucratic processes: there are a number of important areas (insurance, asset management, post-market activities, enhancement of the lamfalussy process…) that require both new measures combined with the need of a convergent implementation of texts and practices born from the completion of the 2000-2005 program (fsap).
consequently, the governance  of the iasb board should be adjusted to take on board such needs and be  articulated with national or regional processes integrating those standards.
especially in the view of a more efficient prudential supervision of pan european groups, the priority shall be given to the functioning of the college of supervisors and to a lead home supervisor concept.
in particular the industry is opposed to the extension of fair valuation to the banking book.
this is  expected to solve some giovannini barriers and improve interoperability  conditions for market infrastructures.
those proposals should be driven by  effective cost reductions, precise governance principles to manage the relevant  projects in the interest of all parties concerned and assuring its ability to  evolve at the right speed to respond to users’ needs.
the respective powers of the  supervisor of the parent company and the supervisors of local subsidiaries will  have to be organized consequently in a rational manner.
the lamfalussy process must be improved following the "better regulation" principle.
furthermore, the iasb board should enter into a constructive dialogue with the industry.
those task forces will address the following topics: - alter ucits - transatlantic dialogue - pension funds - post-trade - accountancy standards ends press contacts arnaud de bresson paris europlace managing director tel : +33 1 49 27 11 44
this process should be driven according to a european framework and on the basis of compatible local regulatory practices.
the evolution of such global standard should  respond to the users’ needs.
insurance: the reform of the prudential framework with the solvency ii  directive is a major step forward and a top priority.
recent initiatives and evaluation process  will come to a conclusion in a few months, but it appears that the  interoperability and the segregation between general interest and commercial  functions, which are the main issues addressed by the code, may not be reached.
- the principle of risk assessment on a one-year view proposed by the european commission must be implemented appropriately to companies over long term risks in order to avoid detrimental effects for the consumers - accounting standards: the convergence of global standards is a common objective.
in the context of the french  presidency of the european union beginning of july 2008, paris europlace and  the city of london have met to discuss and define their common vision and  priorities.
it will modernize the  measurement of insurance risks in order to ensure highly harmonized protection  of consumers and the competitiveness of european financial actors.
on this basis major orientations should be decided before the end of 2008, such as the legal certainty group’s proposals on securities law.
16 may 2008 paris europlace meets high level delegation from the city of london paris, may 16, 2008.
it should be  based on economic prudential requirements, allowing better capital allocation,  including at group level, and it should bring improvements of risk assessment  and management by insurance companies.
in the context of the french presidency of the european union beginning of july 2008, paris europlace and the city of london have met to discuss and define their common vision and priorities.
as far as the global dimension is concerned, mutual recognition is a good  approach.
in this respect, crucial choices will have to be done to ensure that the new reform will effectively really modernize the insurance supervision and take into account risks appropriately: - the minimum capital requirements (mcr) calculation must use a risk sensitive methodology in line with the solvency capital requirement (scr).
those task forces will address the following  topics: alter ucits
- the economic assessment of the risks and requirements concerning groups must be carried out at the consolidated level.
therefore a targeted harmonization process should be a prerequisite to trigger more progress in the european retail banking market.
w | x | y | z | view all - contact us: - departments - feedback - leading personnel - media and publicity protocols - residents change of circumstances - what is the city of london?
retail banking: harmonisation of consumer protection rules is key to
- search - help: - access keys - re-use of public sector information - internet service, availability and usage - website help - website usage - website accessibility - online services: - email alerts - enquiries, requests & application forms - fault reporting - flash movies - online databases - online payments - portals & microsites - your right to cancel - my details : - log on - log off - view order history - register - amend registration - amend password - lost password - shopping cart - you are in the section: - city of london > media centre > news 2008 > paris europlace meets high-level delegation from the city of london - links in this section: - back to news releases news release 16 may 2008 paris europlace meets high level delegation from the city of london paris, may 16, 2008.
three areas should be improved: enhancement of the “product” passport (faster and simplified procedures), including cross-border master-feeders and transnational ucits mergers, a coherent and simplified prospectus, and most importantly the implementation of a full passport for fund management companies.
it should be based on economic prudential requirements, allowing better capital allocation, including at group level, and it should bring improvements of risk assessment and management by insurance companies.
this is a key issue for  answering the needs of european citizens and for the european economic growth.
in any case, paris europlace and the city of london support the multilateral dialog approach, which involves a step toward the mutual recognition.
email: bresson@paris-europlace.com susanna howard legal notices | privacy statement | email this page | download help | back to top city of london corporation press office +44
the principle of risk assessment on a one-year view proposed by the  european commission must be implemented appropriately to companies over long  term risks in order to avoid detrimental effects for the consumers accounting standards: the convergence of global standards is a common  objective.
provide more choice and to reduce prices for retail financial products.
it should be based on economic  prudential requirements, allowing better capital allocation, including at group  level, and it should bring improvements of risk assessment and management by  insurance companies.
nevertheless, the recent crisis showed the weaknesses of the full fair market value approach.
nevertheless, the recent crisis showed the weaknesses of the full  fair market value approach.
as far as the global dimension is concerned, mutual recognition is a good approach.
20 7332 3450/ +44 7824 343 456 susanna.howard@cityoflondon.gov.uk
a joint committee was co-chaired by michel pébereau,  chairman of bnp paribas and andré villeneuve, chairman of city of london  eu advisory group, and was joined by city of london lord mayor david lewis and  the city of london corporation’s policy chairman stuart fraser, during  their official visit to france prior to the eu presidency.
a consensus was reached on the way ahead for european financial integration and on the framework of priorities to be delivered in order to lead the global competition.
- post-trade: in this area europe is still too fragmented and not competitive enough.
this process should be driven according to a european framework and on  the basis of compatible local regulatory practices.
it’s essential to ensure that the ucits framework fosters financial innovation.
member states should urge their national regulators to integrate the eu dimension in their mandate and increase their convergence of practices and their level of information sharing, including the "comply or explain" principle.
member states  should urge their national regulators to integrate the eu dimension in their  mandate and increase their convergence of practices and their level of  information sharing, including the "comply or explain" principle.
it will modernize the measurement of insurance risks in order to ensure highly harmonized protection of consumers and the competitiveness of european financial actors.
to enlarge this level of consensus, paris europlace and the city of london  agreed to set up few task forces to identify and document specific issues on  critical and important areas.
in any case, paris  europlace and the city of london support the multilateral dialog approach,  which involves a step toward the mutual recognition.
the respective powers of the supervisor of the parent company and the supervisors of local subsidiaries will have to be organized consequently in a rational manner.
in particular the industry is opposed to the  extension of fair valuation to the banking book.
this is a key issue for answering the needs of european citizens and for the european economic growth.
overall it was deemed necessary to improve the conditions of the  european integration whilst respecting global best practices and avoiding  overregulation and bureaucratic processes: there are a number of important  areas (insurance, asset management, post-market activities, enhancement of the  lamfalussy process…) that require both new measures combined with the  need of a convergent implementation of texts and practices born from the  completion of the 2000-2005 program (fsap).
on this basis major orientations should be decided before the end of 2008, such  as the legal certainty group’s proposals on securities law.
post-trade: in this area europe is still too fragmented and not  competitive enough.
three areas  should be improved: enhancement of the “product” passport (faster  and simplified procedures), including cross-border master-feeders and  transnational ucits mergers, a coherent and simplified prospectus, and most  importantly the implementation of a full passport for fund management  companies.
quick search: - skip to main contents - skip to links in this section - main navigation: - home - a - z: - a | b | c | d | e | f | g | h | i | j | k | l | m | n |
lord mayor david lewis, who is the global ambassador for the uk-based financial services industry, said “despite current world turmoil, financial markets are still the key to economic growth and there is no way to avoid the fact that in a globalised world our financial services must be competitive on a global basis”.
the evolution of such global standard should respond to the users’ needs.