* there is simply no better way to visit paris in a leisurely day out from london.
fast entry tickets and champagne lunch on the eiffel tower * cruise on the river seine *
sit back and enjoy a glass of champagne followed by a fabulous meal while soaking up the atmosphere of arguably the world’s most beautiful and romantic city.
in the  afternoon we take a cruise on the river seine with spectacular views of the  notre dame.
guided panoramic tour of paris *
after our cruise, if you so wish enjoy a guided tour of the louvre* and see the world famous mona lisa.
alternatively, you can chose how to spend  your free time.
guide to assist you throughout the day, including on board eurostar * optional visit to the louvre (at additional cost)
in the early evening we head back to gard du nord for  our return journey to london where you will be met and escorted back to your  hotel making the tour completely fully escorted!
a visit to the eiffel tower is still included tour price currency  conversion child price: £175(4 -  11 yrs)
travelling at speeds up to 186mph and passing en route through the 31 mile long channel tunnel you will be in paris in just 2 hours 40 minutes.
in the afternoon we take a cruise on the river seine with spectacular views of the notre dame.
during this period lunch will be taken on board  the bateaux parisiens cruise.
after your free hotel transfer (06.00am pick up from central london hotel) we connect you with your representative at st pancreas international* who will escort you onboard eurostar and throughout the day in paris.
fast  entry tickets and champagne lunch on the eiffel tower * cruise on the river  seine * guide to assist you throughout the day, including on board eurostar *  optional visit to the louvre (at additional cost)
we will return to london at around 9.15 (pm) and you will be transferred back to your central london hotel when booking by telephone please quote bv pt 29 **the altitude 95 restaurant will be closed for refurbishment from the 1st november 2008 to the 31st march 2009.
this tour has proved to be extremely popular and great value!
simply click the button and check the  gbp price with your national currency.
sitemap website by creative jar
sit back and enjoy a glass of  champagne followed by a fabulous meal while soaking up the atmosphere of  arguably the world’s most beautiful and romantic city.
travelling at  speeds up to 186mph and passing en route through the 31 mile long channel  tunnel you will be in paris in just 2 hours 40 minutes.
after our cruise, if you so wish enjoy a guided tour of the louvre*  and see the world famous mona lisa.
pick up from your central london hotel  will be at 6.00 (am).
*optional extras not included in the price - purchase from your guide on  the day (option 1: louvre entry & guided walking tour: 25 gbp, option  2: louvre entry without guided tour: 7 gbp) departs monday,  wednesday friday & saturday important: please note, this tour is non-refundable and  non-amendable!
pick up from your central london hotel will be at 6.00 (am).
alternatively, you can chose how to spend your free time.
upon arrival you will  enjoy a panoramic tour of the city taking in all the major sites including  notre dame, champs elysees the river seine and the arc de triomphe before  arriving at the eiffel tower what better way to enjoy lunch than on  the eiffel tower itself, one of the world most famous monuments.
upon arrival you will enjoy a panoramic tour of the city taking in all the major sites including notre dame, champs elysees the river seine and the arc de triomphe before arriving at the eiffel tower what better way to enjoy lunch than on the eiffel tower itself, one of the world most famous monuments.
after your free hotel transfer (06.00am pick up from central london hotel)  we connect you with your representative at st pancreas international* who will  escort you onboard eurostar and throughout the day in paris.
we will return to london at around 9.15 (pm) and you  will be transferred back to your central london hotel when booking by telephone please quote bv pt 29 *
our fast entry  ticket means we have priority access and our reserved seats in the altitude 95  restaurant boast fabulous views across the city.
our fast entry ticket means we have priority access and our reserved seats in the altitude 95 restaurant boast fabulous views across the city.
highlights: *hotel transfer from your central london hotel in the morning & evening *
in the early evening we head back to gard du nord for our return journey to london where you will be met and escorted back to your hotel making the tour completely fully escorted!
when booking by  telephone please quote bv pt 29
highlights: *hotel transfer from your central london  hotel in the morning & evening *
* there is simply no better way to visit paris in a leisurely day out from  london.
a visit to the eiffel tower is still included
during this period lunch will be taken on board the bateaux parisiens cruise.
paris via eurostar with  champagne lunch (standard class)
*optional extras not included in the price - purchase from your guide on the day (option 1: louvre entry & guided walking tour: 25 gbp, option 2: louvre entry without guided tour: 7 gbp) departs monday, wednesday friday & saturday important: please note, this tour is non-refundable and non-amendable!
*the  altitude 95 restaurant will be closed for refurbishment from the 1st november  2008 to the 31st march 2009.
(including all relevant entrance fees.)