"[but] usually we go to oxford street because it is closer to the centre.
overtaking strong competition from cities including madrid, barcelona, berlin, paris and rome, london scored top marks for variety of shopping districts and goods, accessibility and cultural attractions.
famously, each london shopping district has its own distinct character, from oxford street and regent street to knightsbridge, saville row, and carnaby street.
sarah jareovich, 25, from lithuania, who had spent £1,000 on her "retail holiday", said: "we are here because we heard it’s the biggest in europe."
each city was  ranked according to 38 criteria grouped into five categories: shops,  affordability, convenience, hotels and transport, and culture and climate.
"the globe shopper city index – europe is a significant step in  global blue’s strategy to become the go-to brand for everything to do  with international shopping and spending around the world," said per  setterberg, ceo of global blue.
in 2010, the city had the most annual  passenger flights of any index city, at 950,000, which is nearly four times the  index average of 240,000, and 200,000 more than the next city on the list,  paris.
the  eiu’s globe shopper city index – europe measures the attractiveness  of 33 major european cities for international travel shopping.
"[but] usually we go to oxford street because  it is closer to the centre.
london scored highest on the availability of international and local brands, 24 points ahead of second-placed paris and almost 40 points ahead of third-placed moscow.
famously,  each london shopping district has its own distinct character, from oxford  street and regent street to knightsbridge, saville row, and carnaby street.
also shopping in westfield was gemma roig, a regular visitor to london, and her friend blanca de gispert "in spain it’s cheaper but here there are more different kinds of shops and clothes," ms roig said.
the eiu’s globe shopper city index – europe measures the attractiveness of 33 major european cities for international travel shopping.
"the globe shopper city index – europe is a significant step in global blue’s strategy to become the go-to brand for everything to do with international shopping and spending around the world," said per setterberg, ceo of global blue.
the index recognised london’s excellent selection of cultural attractions available to tourists when taking a break from their shopping.
added to which famous markets such as, covent garden, portobello market and  camden market offer a wealth of goods through small traders.
"this index will help retailers and  shopping brands make better business decisions, while the online globe shopper  city index will enable travellers to discover their ideal shopping city based  on their personal priorities."
in 2010, the city had the most annual passenger flights of any index city, at 950,000, which is nearly four times the index average of 240,000, and 200,000 more than the next city on the list, paris.
the  city came first or tied for first, for sights, events and even the variety of  cuisine on offer, demonstrating how much the city has changed in recent  decades.
finally, london is accessible.
contact us london ranked number one shopping city in europe economist intelligence unit reveals london is the best city for tourists  who like to shop, scoring top marks for variety of goods, cultural attractions  and accessibility november 2011 – london took the crown in the globe shopper city index  – europe, a new economist intelligence unit (eiu) research program,  sponsored by global blue, the experts in international shopping and spending  around the world.
sarah jareovich, 25, from lithuania, who had spent £1,000 on her  "retail holiday", said: "we are here because we heard it’s  the biggest in europe."
the city came first or tied for first, for sights, events and even the variety of cuisine on offer, demonstrating how much the city has changed in recent decades.
november 2011 – london took the crown in the globe shopper city index – europe, a new economist intelligence unit (eiu) research program, sponsored by global blue, the experts in international shopping and spending around the world.
"this index will help retailers and shopping brands make better business decisions, while the online globe shopper city index will enable travellers to discover their ideal shopping city based on their personal priorities."
" source: economist intelligence unit , the times © 2012
each city was ranked according to 38 criteria grouped into five categories: shops, affordability, convenience, hotels and transport, and culture and climate.
commenting on the research, robin bew, editorial director and chief  economist at the economist intelligence unit said, "the globe shopper city  index – europe sheds light on which european cities are best placed to  take advantage of the continent’s reputation among international  consumers.
the findings show that the right balance between convenience,  availability and price is essential for international travel shopping." london, a globe shopper’s paradise london’s sheer variety of shopping districts and availability of  goods earned it the best category score of 80.6 points out of 100.
" source: economist intelligence unit , the times press contact email press  tel 0044 (0) 20  7428 2800 press release archive search cbs outdoor uk & eurostar announce ‘live’ ad campaign on  the london underground cbs outdoor uk and eurostar have announced the  launch of a “live” advertising platform in a move to integrate...
plenty to see and do… and easy to get to
cbs outdoor uk brings the glamour of london fashion week to the london
london scored  highest on the availability of international and local brands, 24 points ahead  of second-placed paris and almost 40 points ahead of third-placed moscow.
the findings show that the right balance between convenience, availability and price is essential for international travel shopping." london’s sheer variety of shopping districts and availability of goods earned it the best category score of 80.6 points out of 100.
visitors to london at the newly opened westfield stratford city explained  why they had been drawn to the centre’s 1.9 million sq ft of retail  space.
underground as part of an ongoing partnership with the british fashion  council, cbs outdoor uk is bringing a live feed di... cbs outdoor uk announces first great western partnership cbs outdoor  uk has announced that it has secured the concession to manage experiential and  immersive activity...
commenting on the research, robin bew, editorial director and chief economist at the economist intelligence unit said, "the globe shopper city index – europe sheds light on which european cities are best placed to take advantage of the continent’s reputation among international consumers.
also shopping in westfield was gemma roig, a  regular visitor to london, and her friend blanca de gispert "in spain  it’s cheaper but here there are more different kinds of shops and  clothes," ms roig said.
the index recognised london’s excellent selection of cultural  attractions available to tourists when taking a break from their shopping.
overtaking strong competition from cities including madrid,  barcelona, berlin, paris and rome, london scored top marks for variety of  shopping districts and goods, accessibility and cultural attractions.
added to which famous markets such as, covent garden, portobello market and camden market offer a wealth of goods through small traders.
visitors to london at the newly opened westfield stratford city explained why they had been drawn to the centre’s 1.9 million sq ft of retail space.