price is per person based on double occupancy and may vary according to hotel and airfare seasonality, weekend surcharges, holidays and local events.
other hotels are also available on request shipping information view deck plan amenities dining shipping information sightseeing paris, one hour seine river cruise call for price this tour is available from:
reims is also the city where most of the french kings were crowned.
paris musical  luncheon cruise, service select $107 this tour is available  from: paris musical luncheon cruise schedule: daily,  except christmas day, new year eve, february 14th, july 14th duration:  approx.
stop at caen: visit to the memorial-peace museum, pointe du hoc (stop), omaha beach: saint-laurent (visit), the american cemetery), stop at arromanches and continue on to the landing beaches of gold and juno at the canadian memorial.
no opera saint georges choiseul opera l empire quartier republique le marais comfort cardinal rive gauche le marquis relais du marais daunou opera hotel littre hotel roma sacre coeur duminy vendome lotti victoria ecole centrale lutetia paris elysees ceramic murano urban resort general napoleon holiday inn gc paris bibliotheque de france normandy jardins eiffel parisian apartments l hotel ritz le fabe scribe observatoire luxembourg villa alessandra opera cadet villa beaumarchais opera franklin pavillon louvre rivoli quartier latin regence etoile hotel sydney opera trianon rive gauche tryp de saxe villa eugenie villa saint martin information/restrictions this packages is available in a reverse itinerary.
discovery of champagne, full-day  $303 this tour is  available from: paris a day in champagne from paris time: 8:00am schedule: daily duration: approx.
other hotels are also available on request shipping information view deck plan amenities shipping information  sightseeing paris, one hour seine river cruise  call for  price this tour is available from: paris one hour seine river cruise
please call for details.
enter the surprising machinery room, where the elevators are operated.
+ enjoy 1 night free for 3 or 4-night stays at the following hotels: in paris: littre & d'aubusson.
15 hours highlights: visit some of the areas where the allies fought to recover  freedom in 1944.
entrance ticket to the museum of american art is included.
enter the surprising machinery room, where the  elevators are operated.
in the afternoon visit the gothich reims cathedral, where the kings  of france were once crowned, and tour one of the most famous champagne houses  in reims half-day afternoon versailles  call for  price this tour is available from: paris afternoon  versailles schedule: daily, except mondays duration: approx.
this offer may not be combined with other offers, discounts & promotions and is not valid for customized fits/leisure packages or for group travel for which special rates apply.
the one-day london pass with transportation.
enjoy a traditional french lunch freshly prepared on board.
mont saint-michel, full-day $336 this tour is available from: paris mont saint michel departure time: 6:30am schedule:from november to march: on mondays, wednesdays, fridays and saturdays only.
entrance  ticket to the museum of american art is included.
paris one hour seine river cruise departure time: every 30 minutes schedule: daily duration: approx.
guided visit to the mont  saint-michel abbey.
half-day afternoon tour  call for price this tour is available from: london afternoon london tour schedule: daily duration: 4 hours highlights: tour starts with a guided visit of st. paul cathedral.
special airfares are available for this selected packages.
from april to october: daily, except sundays duration: approx.
call for price this tour  is available from: london the london pass highlights:  your passport to london that gives you free entry to over 50 attractions,  museums as well as free public transportation (restrictions apply).
formal dress required.
orientation tour of reims includes a guided visit of the gothic cathedral.
presented by an expert  sommelier full-day chateaux de la loire  call for price this tour is available from: paris chateaux de la loire schedule: daily duration: approx.
testimonials | online brochures q&a | terms & conditions | privacy policy | travel protection plan | bookmark us!
12 hours highlights: visit champagne vineyards  around reims, followed by wine tasting.
45 minutes highlights: three champagne tastings, with foie gras, macaroons and chocolates.
fashion show & wine tasting at galeries lafayette  call for  price this tour is available from: paris fashion show and  wine tasting at galeries lafayette start time: fashion show at 3:00pm -  wine tasting at 5:30pm schedule: fridays only duration: approx.
schedule: daily highlights: after a cruise on the seine river, see the illuminated monuments in the districts of concorde square, champs-elysees, trocadero, eiffel tower, pyramid of the louvre, notre-dame.
14 hours highlights: discover the loire valley, cradle of the french renaissance and visit its jewels: the charms of the chateau of chenonceau with its enchanting gardens, the private and entirely furnished castle of cheverny.
paris dinner  cruise $236 this tour is available from: paris dinner cruise schedule: daily, except  christmas day, new year eve, february 14th, july 14th
5 hours highlights: in giverny, visit the house of claude monet, his studio and the wonderful gardens.
4 hours highlights: concorde square -louvre museum -  seine river and its bridges - french academy - cite island with the palace of  justice and notre-dame cathedral (stop) - hotel de ville (cityhall) - the latin  quarter with the sorbonne and the pantheon - arch of triumph- champs-elysees  avenue - eiffel tower (photo-stop) -
at the superb piper-heidsieck champagne caves, embark a small carriage for a magical tour with recorded commentery.
in the afternoon, visit the prestigious wine cellars of moet chandon.
in the  afternoon, enjoy a pleasant drive through the countryside of the seine valley.
stop at caen: visit to the  memorial-peace museum, pointe du hoc (stop), omaha beach: saint-laurent  (visit), the american cemetery), stop at arromanches and continue on to the  landing beaches of gold and juno at the canadian memorial.
this packages is available in a reverse itinerary.
call for price this tour is available from:
orientation tour of reims includes a guided visit of the gothic  cathedral.
the hidden  secrets of the eiffel tower & river cruise call for price this tour  is available from: paris the hidden secrets of the eiffel tower  plus river cruise departure time: 10:00am schedule: wednesdays and  saturdays only - every 30 minutes duration: approx.
champagne tasting at galeries lafayette call for price this tour is available from: paris champagne tasting at galeries lafayette start time:
paris landing beaches of normandy departure time: 6:30am schedule: from november to march: on wednesdays and saturdays only.
lunch in a local restaurant is included.
visit the old military bunker located under the champs  the mars and the technical gallery located under the first floor of the eiffel  tower.
entrance tickets included (palace and gardens).
the two-day london pass with transportation.
1 hour highlights: enjoy a  leisurely cruise on the river seine through the heart of the city of lights.
4 hours highlights: guided visit of the  state apartments (hall of mirrors, king and queen apartments).
45  minutes highlights: weekly fashion show at famous galeries lafayette.
show at the moulin rouge call for price this tour is available from: paris show at the moulin rouge departure time: 10:00pm schedule: daily highlights: an unforgettable evening at the moulin rouge with the feerie (fairy) show.
a champagne tasting completes the visit.
15 hours highlights: rocky island located in the biggest bay in europe, the mont  saint-michel abbey was rightly named the marvel of the western world and is  still one of the most famous pilgrimage centers since the middle ages.
15 hours highlights: visit some of the areas where the allies fought to recover freedom in 1944.
n.b. 1/2 bottle of  champagne per person.
it is a mecca for visitors with something of interest for everyone, with countless museums, galleries and entertainment options throughout the city.
tour italy, france, spain, greece, turkey or egypt on an escorted vacation with central holidays and take advantage of a 10% early booking deal on the land price of all 2012/13 escorted programs.
n.b. 1/2 bottle of champagne per person.
from april to october: on mondays, wednedays, fridays and saturdays only duration: approx.
in the afternoon, visit the prestigious wine cellars of  moet chandon.
guided visit with audio guide of the state  apartments (hall of mirrors, king and queen apartments).
you'll also get to travel on the famous eurostar through the channel.
some of the attractions are: the tower of london and the crown jewels,  st. paul cathedral, london aquarium, kensington palace, windsor castle, london  zoo and many more.
continue the tour with a one-hour seine cruise on the famous bateaux parisiens.
special airfares are available for this selected  packages.
star 3 star 4 star 5 star rates for 2012 *
proceed without joining » select from: italy, greece, spain & portugal, france, egypt, cyprus and ski!
14 hours highlights: discover the loire valley, cradle of the french  renaissance and visit its jewels: the charms of the chateau of chenonceau with  its enchanting gardens, the private and entirely furnished castle of cheverny.
* jan. - mar. 2012 land only $1,175 $1,477 apr. - jun. 2012 land only $1,336 $1,728 jul. & aug. 2012
enjoy a traditional french dinner freshly prepared on board.
save 10%: payment 7 months or more before departure save 5%: payment 6-4 months before departure or all programs promotion book early, place a deposit and save up to $200 on all 2012/13 land-only programs take advantage of up to $200 early booking deal on the land price ofall 2012/13 land-only brochure programs.
destinations - italy | france | greece | spain | portugal | turkey | egypt | cyprus | croatia & eastern europe | israel, jordan & dubai partner companies - enchanting river cruises | france vacations | maiellano | world on skis © copyright central holidays 2010.
full-day reims champagne  call for price this  tour is available from: paris reims champagne schedule: mondays, wednesdays, fridays only duration: approx.
continue the tour with a one-hour seine cruise on the famous bateaux  parisiens.
d-day tour, normandy and landing beachesm full-day $380 this tour is available from:
paris, cruise with illuminations $123 this tour is available from: paris cruise with illuminations of paris departure time: 8:00pm (april/october) -
guided visit to the mont saint-michel abbey.
from april to  october: daily, except sundays duration: approx.
pass by the louvre, notre dame, orsay museum, the eiffel tower.
1 hour highlights: enjoy a leisurely cruise on the river seine through the heart of the city of lights.
paris giverny departure time: 1:30pm schedule: daily, except mondays duration: approx.
once we have received the deposit on your booking, the land price is guaranteed from any future fluctuations in the rate of exchange dates city type 2
2 hours highlights: a memorable and festive cruise on a panoramic boat.
all discounts apply toland or land & cruise-only portion of brochure programs with a minimum land value of $750 per person for travel march 01, 2012 thru march 31, 2013.save 5% or 10% discount applicable only to escorted tour programs.
escorted tour promotion
for an accurate rate, please call our reservations department at 1-800-935-5000.
tour features 2011/12 & 2012 rates hotels sightseeing/excursions information/restrictions image gallery home | special offers | group travel | car rental | about us | contact us |
london is the place where the historic past and the vibrant present come alive in a constantly evolving city.
schedule: daily highlights: all the excitement and beauty of paris by night followed by the  fantastic show: bonheur at the world famous lido. n.b. 1/2 bottle of  champagne per person.
plus applicable airport taxes and fees.
in the afternoon visit the gothich reims cathedral, where the kings of france were once crowned, and tour one of the most famous champagne houses in reims half-day afternoon versailles call for price this tour is available from: paris afternoon versailles departure time: 1:15pm schedule: daily, except mondays duration: approx.
duration: approx. 2 1/2 hours highlights: you are invited to discover the hidden secrets of one of the most visited sites in the world.
versailles  guided tour, half-day $161 this tour is available from: paris morning versailles schedule: daily, except  mondays duration: approx.
escorted tour promotion book early, pay in full and save!
9 hours highlights: in giverny,  visit the house of claude monet, his studio and the wonderful gardens.
5 hours highlights: in giverny, visit the house of  claude monet, his studio and the wonderful gardens.
fashion show & wine tasting at galeries lafayette call for price this tour is available from:
paris, cruise with illuminations  $123 this tour is  available from: paris cruise with illuminations of paris departure time: 8:00pm  (april/october) - 7:00pm (november/march) schedule: daily highlights: after a cruise on the seine river, see the illuminated monuments in  the districts of concorde square, champs-elysees, trocadero, eiffel tower,  pyramid of the louvre, notre-dame.
star 3 star 4 star 5 star london central park bellevue jurys kensington jw marriott grosvenor house corner house mandeville le meridien piccadily novotel london waterloo marylebone swissotel london howard president nh harrington hall quality westminster nh kensington show more hotels in london?
show at the moulin rouge  call for price this tour  is available from: paris show at the moulin rouge departure  time:
4 hours highlights: guided visit of the state apartments (hall of mirrors, king and queen apartments).
invalides with the dome of napoleon tomb -  opera house - free time in montmartre, (stop near sacre-coeur basilica and the  artists' square, place du tertre).
discovery of champagne, full-day $303 this tour is available from:
tour features  2011/12 & 2012
paris a day in champagne from paris time: 8:00am schedule: daily duration: approx.
versailles guided tour, half-day $161 this tour is available from: paris morning versailles departure time: 8:15am schedule: daily, except mondays duration: approx.
the magnificent park, the grand  trianon (view from the outside).
drive  through the green landscapes of the normandy region.
free  additional nights are available during july, august and november thru march.
reims is also the city where most of the french kings were  crowned.
contact us for details.
paris dinner cruise $236 this tour is available from: paris dinner cruise departure time: 8:30pm schedule: daily, except christmas day, new year eve, february 14th, july 14th
there has never been a better time to find out just how much it has to offer.
at versailles, visit on your own the state apartments of the palace (entrance ticket is included) giverny, half-day $161 this tour is available from:
all rights reserved about ssl certificates
rates for single/triple/children and additional nights in paris and london are available.
paris half-day morning city tour $121 this tour is available from: paris morning city tour departure time: 8:15am schedule: daily duration: approx.
2  1/2 hours highlights: a memorable and festive cruise on a panoramic  boat.
in the afternoon, enjoy a pleasant drive through the countryside of the seine valley.
from april to october: on  mondays, wednedays, fridays and saturdays only duration: approx.
fashion show at 3:00pm - wine tasting at 5:30pm schedule: thursdays only duration: approx.
some of the  attractions are: the tower of london and the crown jewels, st. paul cathedral,  london aquarium, kensington palace, windsor castle, london zoo and many more.
7:00pm (november/march)
call for  price this tour is available from:
schedule: daily highlights: all the excitement and beauty of paris by night followed by the fantastic show: bonheur at the world famous lido. n.b. 1/2 bottle of champagne per person.
no royal national park inn hyde park tavistock russell sherlock holmes thistle hyde park victoria park plaza vondel amsterdam centre washington paris all seasons voltaire republique archives aubusson (d) hotel americain aviatic colbert hotel comfort andre latin supe belloy st germain edouard vii ibis roissy charles de gaulle best western opera saint lazare horset opera nemours central st germain hotel du louvre show more hotels in paris?
45 minutes highlights: weekly fashion show at famous galeries lafayette.
illuminations  of paris with show at lido call for price this tour is available  from: paris illuminations of paris with show at the lido departure time: 7:00pm (november/march from sunday to thursday) - 9:00pm  (november/march on fridays and saturdays) - 9:00pm (april/may and  september/october) - 9:30pm (june/august)
paris  half-day morning city tour $121 this tour is available from: paris morning city tour schedule: daily duration: approx.
half-day afternoon tour call for price this tour is available from: london afternoon london tour departure time: 1:00pm schedule: daily duration: 4 hours highlights: tour starts with a guided visit of st. paul cathedral.
champagne tasting at  galeries lafayette call for price this tour is available  from: paris champagne tasting at galeries lafayette start  time: fashion show at 3:00pm - wine tasting at 5:30pm schedule:
home | contact | request brochure | e-brochures | press releases | video | sitemap please choose your user type for the correct request form: - destinations - italy - france - greece - spain - portugal - england - turkey - egypt - cyprus - israel, jordan & dubai - italy-beyond - cruising - mediterranean cruises - river cruises - aegean cruises - hotels - italy - france - greece - spain - portugal - turkey - egypt - paradores - spain - pousadas - portugal - escorted tours - car rental - special offers - group travel - group info - leisure group packages - religious group packages - group request form consumer travel agent complete online brochures please enter your e-mail, then click to view our online brochures: email: receive our newsletter & special offers!
please call for  details.
4 hours highlights: concorde square -louvre museum - seine river and its bridges - french academy - cite island with the palace of justice and notre-dame cathedral (stop) - hotel de ville (cityhall) -
a selection of other hotels is available.
paris fashion show and wine tasting at galeries lafayette start time: fashion show at 3:00pm - wine tasting at 5:30pm schedule: fridays only duration: approx.
see the  tower of london and the city.
some of the attractions are: the tower of london and the crown jewels, st. paul cathedral, london aquarium, kensington palace, windsor castle, london zoo and many more.
land only $1,244 $1,693 sep. & oct. 2012 land only $1,336 $1,728 nov. & dec. 2012
at the superb piper-heidsieck champagne caves, embark a small  carriage for a magical tour with recorded commentery.
mont saint-michel,  full-day $336 this tour is available from: paris mont saint michel departure time:
lunch in a local restaurant is  included.
one day hop on-hop off call for price this tour is available from:
d-day  tour, normandy and landing beachesm full-day $380 this tour is  available from: paris landing beaches of normandy departure time: 6:30am schedule: from  november to march: on wednesdays and saturdays only.
thursdays  only highlights: three champagne  tastings, with foie gras, macaroons and chocolates.
a taste of paris & londonfrom $1175 book early, pay in full and save!
the hidden secrets of the eiffel tower & river cruise call for price this tour is available from: paris the hidden secrets of the eiffel tower plus river cruise departure time: 10:00am schedule: wednesdays and saturdays only - every 30 minutes
rates for  single/triple/children and additional nights in paris and london are  available.
save up to $200 applicable to all brochure programs (excluding deviations) and expire on march 31, 2012.
the magnificent park, the grand trianon (view from the outside).
visit the old military bunker located under the champs the mars and the technical gallery located under the first floor of the eiffel tower.
guided visit with audio guide of the state apartments (hall of mirrors, king and queen apartments).
6:30am schedule:from november to  march: on mondays, wednesdays, fridays and saturdays only.
see the tower of london and the city.
entrance tickets  included (palace and gardens).
9 hours highlights: in giverny, visit the house of claude monet, his studio and the wonderful gardens.
get a quote | image gallery | our most popular city combo... 3 nights in paris, the city of lights, plus 3 nights in cosmopolitan london.
the last stop is at chambord, former royal residence.
a champagne tasting  completes the visit.
free additional nights are available during july, august and november thru march.
2 1/2 hours highlights: you are invited to discover the hidden secrets of one of the most  visited sites in the world.
drive through the green landscapes of the normandy region.
2 hours highlights: a memorable and festive cruise on a  panoramic boat.
10:00pm highlights: an unforgettable evening  at the moulin rouge with the feerie (fairy) show.
save $50 per couple on per person purchase of minimum $750 and maximum $1,500 save $100 per couple on per person purchase of minimum $1,501 and maximum $3,000 save $200 per couple on per person purchase of over $3,000 conditions.
stop on the way back  to paris.
15 hours highlights: rocky island located in the biggest bay in europe, the mont saint-michel abbey was rightly named the marvel of the western world and is still one of the most famous pilgrimage centers since the middle ages.
11  hours highlights: the sacred town of reims is the capital of the  champagne region.
at versailles, visit on your own the state apartments of the palace (entrance  ticket is included) giverny, half-day  $161 this tour is available from: paris giverny schedule: daily, except mondays duration: approx.
paris chateaux de la loire departure time: 6:30am schedule: daily duration: approx.
the ticket is valid 24 hours from the time you first board the bus.
introduction to french wines with an expert sommelier giverny & versailles, full-day $227 this tour is available from: paris giverny and versailles departure time: 8:30am schedule: daily, except mondays duration: approx.
price is  per person based on double occupancy and may vary according to hotel and  airfare seasonality, weekend surcharges, holidays and local events.
2 1/2 hours highlights: a memorable and festive cruise on a panoramic boat.
12 hours highlights: visit champagne vineyards around reims, followed by wine tasting.
departure time: every 30 minutes schedule: daily duration: approx.
london the london pass highlights: your passport to london that gives you free entry to over  50 attractions, museums as well as free public transportation (restrictions  apply).
tour features • 3-night accommodations at selected hotel in paris • 3-night accommodations at selected hotel in london • buffet breakfast daily at hotels • half day city tour in paris with pick-up/drop-off at hotel • half day hop-on/hop-off city tour of london • eurostar train (first class) between paris and london • 10% discount coupon to the galeries lafayette in paris • travel bag, one per person • document holder and luggage tags • hotel taxes and service charges rates daily us departures 2011/12 & 2013 rates (except cruise portion) indicated on the website are subject to currency fluctuations.
introduction to french wines with an expert sommelier giverny & versailles, full-day $227 this tour is available  from: paris giverny and versailles schedule: daily,  except mondays duration: approx.
london london hop on-hop off time: starts at 10:00am schedule: daily duration: 24 hours highlights: hop on and off as often as you wish.
london the london pass highlights: your passport to london that gives you free entry to over 50 attractions, museums as well as free public transportation (restrictions apply).
entrance ticket to the  museum of american art is included.
paris musical luncheon cruise, service select $107 this tour is available from: paris musical luncheon cruise departure time: 12:45pm schedule: daily, except christmas day, new year eve, february 14th, july 14th duration: approx.
i am a... customer travel agent log
in forgot password | click here to register current promotion + enjoy 1 night free for 3 or 4-night stays at the following hotels: in paris: littre & d'aubusson.
stop on the way back to paris.
11 hours highlights: the sacred town of reims is the capital of the champagne region.
one day hop on-hop off   call for price this tour is available from: london london  hop on-hop off schedule: daily duration: 24  hours highlights: hop on and off as often as you wish.
land only $1,244 $1,693 rates for 2013 * * jan. - mar. 2013 land only $1,175 $1,477 hotels city 2
the ticket is  valid 24 hours from the time you first board the bus.
illuminations of paris with show at lido call for price this tour is available from: paris illuminations of paris with show at the lido departure time: 7:00pm (november/march from sunday to thursday) - 9:00pm (november/march on fridays and saturdays) - 9:00pm (april/may and september/october) - 9:30pm (june/august)
the latin quarter with the sorbonne and the pantheon - arch of triumph- champs-elysees avenue - eiffel tower (photo-stop) - invalides with the dome of napoleon tomb - opera house - free time in montmartre, (stop near sacre-coeur basilica and the artists' square, place du tertre).
presented by an expert sommelier full-day chateaux de la loire call for price this tour is available from:
full-day reims champagne call for price this tour is available from: paris reims champagne departure time: 7:30am schedule: mondays, wednesdays, fridays only duration: approx.
the temperature is rather low in the wine-cellars.