only thing to be wary of is the price of drinks at the hotel bar, but think that is going to be high anywhere in central paris.
i took the roissybus from cdg airport staight to opera and could easily walk from the stop to the hotel.
christine from southampton 5.0 out of 5 “looking foward to going back” my first time in paris which was great can't wait to go back, the hotel was better than we expected it.
the concorde st. lazare was ideally placed and easy to find.
hotel was directly in front of the gare st lazare and metro which made it easy to zip around paris.
[ sign in ] - my itineraries - travel alerts - my account - customer support - feedback - online check-in - cancel my hotel booking - - home - flights - hotels - car hire - flight + hotel - deals - city breaks - ski holidays - package holidays - activities - travel insurance expedia.co.uk > hotels > europe > france > paris hotels > concorde opera paris, paris new hotel search please complete the highlighted fields below the check-out date must occur after the check-in date.
this is the hotel to stay in!!!”
morag from cheshire, uk 4.0 out of 5 “fitted the bill perfectly!”
please add the check-out date.
would recommend this hotel, and would definitely use it again.
distances are displayed to the nearest 0.1 mile and kilometre.
wired  high-speed internet access (surcharge).
the check-out date is missing.
de corot - hôtel sezz paris - konfidentiel - hotel keppler - hotel duret - le petit paris - pavillon de la reine - kyriad prestige paris
courtyard or city view.
flat-panel televisions have cable service.
we have detected you are either using an old browser or one not compatible with our maps.
courtyard  or city view.
the check-out date cannot be after 13/07/2013.
please change the date.
please complete the highlighted fields below.
it was a quiet room, a decent size, with a modern and bright bathroom.
didn't eat breakfast in the hotel - it was far too expensive, we just found somewhere nearby.
comfort and style the 266 light and airy guestrooms are decorated in classic parisian style and offer views over the historic facades of the boulevard haussmann and rue st lazare.
there is only  room left for .
bathroom  television.
junior suite room 1 queen bed.
designer  toiletries.
martin from northamptonshire 5.0 out of 5 “excellent service”
tripadvisor traveller rating: (based on #### traveller reviews) additional reviews provided by , the world's leading source of hotel reviews.
paul from cardiff 4.0 out of 5 “good choice” the hotel st lazare is in an excellent, central location.
show all rooms hide rooms
shower/tub combination.
please refer to the tour operator's terms and conditions for details of their atol protection.
nearby points of interest - printemps department store - 0.2 km / 0.2 mi - theatre mogador - 0.4 km / 0.2 mi - galeries lafayette - 0.6 km / 0.3 mi - paris olympia - 0.6 km / 0.4 mi - paris opera - 0.6 km / 0.4 mi - place de la madeleine - 0.7 km / 0.4 mi - elysee palace - 0.9 km / 0.5 mi - place vendome - 0.9 km / 0.6 mi - moulin rouge - 1 km / 0.6 mi - place de la concorde - 1.2 km / 0.7 mi - grevin museum - 1.2 km / 0.8 mi - tuileries garden - 1.2 km / 0.8 mi - paris bourse - 1.3 km / 0.8 mi - orangerie museum - 1.3 km / 0.8 mi - pont de la concorde - 1.3 km / 0.8 mi location highlights -
mondial assistance fsa registration number is 311909.
conveniently located close to a metro and mainline station - but without the noise and hassle this sometimes brings - it was an ideal location to base ourselves for four days sightseeing.
the reception area is as lovely as the pictures indicate, the booking was all in order, the staff were friendly and helpful and the room was clean and comfortable.
show more complimentary wi-fi the lobby of concorde opera paris gives way to a completely soundproofed building with restaurant, bar, breakfast salon, and business center.
kiel| - hotels in coventry| - palacio de los salcedo hotel jaen| - best western les voyageurs brest| - harrogate england| - all inclusive gran canaria| - renaissance amsterdam| - canmore rocky mountain inn canmore| - shanshui trends hotel xidan xicheng| - sandima 37 suites boutique turkbuku| - sheraton hotel edinburgh| - apex waterloo place hotel| - norton house hotel & spa| - hotels in bray berkshire| - falesia hotel| - isle of man hotels| - ameritel inn boise spectrum boise| - city inn westminster| - nordic hotel am kieler schloss kiel| - best western tall trees motel city| - lucca hotels| - skegness hotels| - oasis village corralejo| - signature mgm grand| - hook hampshire| - wembley plaza hotel| - radisson blu plaza hotel baku baku| - sheraton salobre golf resort & spa| - red roof and suites brandon jackson| - hilton london gatwick airport| - nordic hotel daenischer hof kiel - city breaks| - last minute deals| - winter
wireless  (high-speed) internet access - complimentary.
fees and deposits may not include tax and are subject to change.
concorde opera paris 108 rue saint lazare paris, paris 75008 france - - - - - - - - - - - - - most recent booking for this hotel: less than 4 hours ago.
see all #### reviews see latest tripadvisor reviews tripadvisor traveller rating tripadvisor provides an assessment of hotel quality based on more than 40 million reviews & opinions from real travellers.
there is only room left for .
more rooms of this type may be available  at higher rates.
discounts may apply to children show additional options hide additional options hotel name: hotel class: show all 1 star or more 2 stars or more 3 stars or more 4 stars or more 5 stars search for hotels map view map recently viewed see #### more choose dates concorde opera paris 108 rue saint lazare paris, paris 75008 france luxury paris hotel near galeries lafayette by train station shopping, theater, and financial business districts surround this 19th-century hotel; located in the 9th arrondissement and steps from the paris opera house and 2 blocks from printemps department store.
policies check-in time starts at 2 pm minimum check-in age is 18 check-out time is noon
i'm pleased we took his advice.
i paid extra and had a superior room and felt it was very well worth the extra money, we only had breakfast on the last day as we found it a bit pricey, but the choice was again excellent.
please change  the date.
whilst the hotel restaurant and bar are excellent, there are numerous bars/brasseries/restaurants close by serving a variety of food types.
found a cafe opposite where we had breakfast as the hotel was too expensive.
wireless (high-speed)  internet access - complimentary.
can walk to many of the famous sights and shopping precincts from here.
the following mandatory hotel-imposed fees are charged and collected by the hotel either at check-in or check-out.
see latest tripadvisor reviews tripadvisor traveller rating tripadvisor provides an assessment of hotel quality based on more than 40  million reviews & opinions from real travellers.
wireless internet access throughout the hotel is complimentary.
the check-in date cannot be after 13/07/2013.
the traveller rating  represents an average of individual ratings for this hotel.
the check-in or check-out date is prior to the current date.
wireless high-speed internet access (complimentary).
flat-panel television.
jim from perth, scotland 5.0 out of 5 “all was as expected” the hotel was ideal for travelling on the metro and rer, and was central for shopping and restaurants.
hotel policies & fees
junior suite, queen bed + living room 1 queen bed in  bedroom.
visit tripadvisor to view all #### reviews back to hotel details showing 1 - 10 results (of 14) · see more concorde opera paris reviews give your feedback to help us make improvements other hotels in or around paris hotels in paris see all hotels in paris - comfort hotel cdg goussainville - campanile nogent sur marne - parc hotel paris - hotel paradis - mercure fontenay sous bois - best western hotel opera batignolles - comfort hotel opera drouot - hotel virgina - hotel niel - hotel murat 4 star hotels in paris see all 4* hotels in paris - mercure fontenay sous bois - best western hotel opera batignolles - les etangs
shower/tub  combination.
all rooms have large desks and views over the historic facades of the gare st-lazare and rue st-lazare.
please provide the ages of children  below.
city view and/or courtyard view.
wireless  high-speed internet access (complimentary).
concorde montparnasse - hotel concorde la fayette hotels: car rentals: more travel options: - top vch am segelhafen kiel
see all #### tripadvisor reviews rooms & rates please enter dates below.
we stayed at this hotel early november 2008 on the recommendation of a friend.
fsa authorisation can be checked on the fsa register atwww.fsa.gov.uk/register/ - expedia, inc., is not responsible for content on external web sites.
flat-panel television with cable service.
there are only rooms left for .
large windows for natural  light.
more rooms of this type may  be available at higher rates.
the check-in date is missing.
please provide the ages of children below the check-in or check-out date is prior to the current date.
creagh from london 5.0 out of 5 “as advertised” the hotel was essentially 'as advertised'.
definitely recommend!!
accomodation was clean if cosy, sevice excellent, with a very helpful concierge.
the standard room (called superior) was a reasonable size for central paris, and the staff friendly and helpful.
property amenities - complimentary newspapers in lobby - use of nearby fitness center (complimentary) - room service (24 hours) - breakfast available (surcharge) - bar/lounge - restaurant(s) in hotel - limo or town car service available - business center - banquet facilities - business services - computer rental - fax machine - audio-visual equipment - cell phone/mobile rental - photocopy machines - secretarial services - concierge services - 24-hour front desk - porter/bellhop - express check-out - doorman/doorwoman - safe-deposit box at front desk show all property amenities hide property amenities - multilingual staff - dry cleaning/laundry service - currency exchange - babysitting or child care - translation services - air-conditioned public areas - tour assistance - total number of rooms - 266 - room service - laundry facilities - one meeting/conference room - luggage storage - number of floors - 5 - elevator/lift - technology support staff - tours/ticket assistance - free wi-fi - wired (high-speed) internet access - surcharge - valet parking - year built - 1889 - technology helpdesk rooms the concorde opera paris hotel offers 266 rooms in classic parisian style.
sun| - eurostar deals| - ski holidays| - disneyland paris breaks| - hotels site map partner services: expedia partners: - add a hotel| - become an affiliate| - travel agencies - hotels.com| - venere| - hotwire| - egencia business travel - about us| - advertising| - press office| - inside expedia| - jobs| - privacy policy| - terms of use| - general terms and conditions for booking| - site map global sites: - holidays created by you on expedia.co.uk which include air travel are protected by the civil aviation authority under atol number 5788.
luxury shops, monumental 19th century buildings, upscale apartments, restaurants and multinational corporations line the streets around la madeleine.
junior suite room 1 twin bed.
wired (high-speed)  internet access - surcharge.
wired high-speed internet access  (surcharge).
the hotel is also in quite a central location with sites easily walkable in all directions and a metro station right outside and rer (train) station just up the road for easy connection to the airport and other rer/metro stations.
the roissy airport bus terminal is six minutes walk, or two short stops on the metro away.
please complete the highlighted fields  below.
© 2012, expedia, inc.
the traveller rating represents an average of individual ratings for this hotel.
as soon as we walked into the foyer my nephew was amazed at how luxurious it was and i was very pleased that it met my expectations.
the reception staff were excellent and very helpful, the hotel was clean and the rooms were spotless and beds very comfy.
we will stay here again on our next visit.
room amenities - pay movies - air conditioning - complimentary newspaper - voice mail - soundproofed rooms - bathroom television - minibar - wake-up calls - daily housekeeping - turndown service - private bathroom - hair dryer - designer toiletries - desk - window opens - rollaway beds available - cribs (infant beds) available show all room amenities hide room amenities - in-room safe - direct-dial phone - climate control - makeup/shaving mirror - slippers - shower/tub combination - bathrobes - electronic/magnetic keys - speakerphone - cable television service - flat-panel television - free wi-fi - wired high-speed internet access (surcharge) - oncommand video - city view - courtyard view dining terminus café - refined french cuisine is served in this belle epoch-style dining room for lunch and dinner.
processing your request
showing 1 - #### reviews (of ****) learn more about this hotel from reviews provided by, the world's leading source of hotel reviews.
0 room type superior room queen  bed one queen bed and one twin bed.
show dining options hide dining options
gare st-lazare stands on its eastern edges.
hide - hotel details - guest reviews photos view photos guest reviews out of 5 expedia guest rating of guests recommend no reviews tripadvisor traveller rating (what's this?)
see all ####  tripadvisor reviews rooms & rates please enter dates below.
please change the date date format should be dd/mm/yy
the  check-in date cannot be after 13/07/2013.
- expedia inc. is an appointed representative of mondial assistance (uk) limited which is authorised and regulated by the financial services authority (fsa).
apart from this, the front staff were helpful and friendly.
date format should be dd/mm/yy.
please add the check-in date.
superior room twin beds two twin beds.
- full breakfast fee: eur 29 per person (approximate amount) - rollaway bed fee: eur 70 per night -
the  check-out date is missing.
the golden black bar - serves a light parisian breakfast (hot drink, fruit juice, and baker basket) from monday to friday, beginning at 7:30 am.
- a city/local tax will be charged - the above list may not be comprehensive.
costa from tamworth uk 5.0 out of 5 “if you are staying in paris...
large windows for natural light.
wireless (high-speed) internet access - complimentary.
cable television  service.
the above list may not be comprehensive.
- welcome - already a member?
the only negative was that it was supposed to be a double room but the bed was infact two (large) single beds pushed together but were, nonetheless, quite comfortable.
complimentary newspaper.
we were given a room at the back deliberately as the man at reception said it would be quieter due to building works near the hotel.
helen from chelmsford 5.0 out of 5 “very impressed” i took my nephew who was visiting me from auz just after christmas for 4 days, found an amazing deal on expedia.
wired high-speed internet access (surcharge).
the check-out date must occur after the check-in date.
distances are calculated in a straight line from the property's location to the point of interest or airport and may not reflect actual travel distance.
recreation - complimentary bicycles on site showing 1 - 10 results (of 14) · see more concorde opera paris reviews claire from surrey 5.0 out of 5 “great location ideal for sight seeing” staff were very friendly and helpful.
makeup/shaving mirror.
makeup/shaving  mirror.
classic room full bed 1 full bed.
street address or intersection: city: state: -?- zip code: check-in: check-out: rooms: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
wired (high-speed) internet access - surcharge.
find hotels near: a city an airport an attraction what city?
know before you go policies - there are no room charges for children 11 years old and younger who occupy the same room as their parents or guardians, using existing bedding.
wish i could live in this hotel!!!!
mandatory hotel-imposed fees may not include tax and are subject to change.
we would like your feedback, please fill in our survey concorde opera paris 108 rue saint lazare paris, paris 75008 france sorry, we're unable to show you a map of location right now.
city view and/or  courtyard view.
more rooms of this type may be available at higher rates.
flat-panel television with  cable service.
spacious bathrooms have combination bath, shower, and designer toiletries.
wired (high-speed) internet access -  surcharge.
in historical district - in city center - in business district - in entertainment district the closest major airports to concorde opera paris are: paris (ory-orly) - 16.2 km / 10.1 mi paris (cdg-charles de gaulle) - 21.2 km / 13.2 mi the preferred airport for concorde opera paris is paris (cdg-charles de gaulle).
we would certainly use this hotel again.
the service was excellent and location very good brian from london 5.0 out of 5 “a warm, welcoming, and friendly hotel.”
there are only  rooms left for .
cable television service.
only complaint was the lack of tea, coffee and milk items - even when requesting them from the service staff they didn't materialise.
complimentary  newspaper.
check-in: check-out: rooms: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 show rates specify ages of children at time of travel discounts may be offered to children of certain ages.
there are no room charges for children 11 years old and younger who occupy  the same room as their parents or guardians, using existing bedding.
junior suite, queen bed + living room 1 queen bed in bedroom.
for all tour operator holidays booked through expedia.co.uk you will be protected by the relevant tour operator's atol.
the following fees and deposits are charged by the property at time of service, check-in, or check-out.
deluxe room queen bed one queen bed and one twin bed.
please provide the ages of children below.
the check-out date cannot be after  13/07/2013.
fees - check-in time starts at 2 pm - minimum check-in age is 18 - check-out time is noon - small pets only - american express - diners club - eurocard - jcb international - mastercard - visa mandatory fees and taxes - the following fees and deposits are charged by the property at time of service, check-in, or check-out.
rooms have double doors for soundproofing.
landmarks include the grand and petit palais, palais de la découverte (science museum), and the presidential palace.
the following fees and deposits are charged by the property at time of  service, check-in, or check-out.
my daughter and i wanted a central hotel in paris, close to the department stores and the main galleries.
nearest major airport: - paris, france (cdg-charles de gaulle) area: champs elysees 8), paris, france: between place de la concorde and the arc de triomphe, this famous tree-lined thoroughfare strikes through the heart of western paris.
0 room type superior room queen bed one queen bed and one twin bed.
wired (high-speed) internet  access - surcharge.
deluxe room twin beds two twin beds.
ouest boulogne hotels in champs elysees 8) see all hotels in champs elysees 8) - helzear saint honore apartments - hotel lancaster - hôtel de crillon - hotel galileo - best western premier opéra richepanse - radisson blu hotel paris champs elysees - hotel vernet - hilton arc de triomphe paris - renaissance paris arc de triomphe hotel - marignan champs-elysees hotels near eiffel tower see all hotels near eiffel tower - parc hotel paris - hotel paradis - best western hotel opera batignolles - comfort hotel opera drouot - hotel virgina - hotel niel - hotel murat - résidence mercure le scénario - platine hotel - mercure paris porte de versailles expo concorde hotels in paris see all concorde hotels in paris - hôtel de crillon - hotel du louvre - hotel lutetia - hôtel