mar 29: hotel sofitel paris la defense (classic)_, 5 stars for 3 night(s) apr 1: hotel duodo palace., 4 stars for 2 night(s) apr 3: hotel silla_, 3 stars for 2 night(s) apr 5: hotel des artistes., 3 stars for 3 night(s) see more traveled itineraries similar itineraries build
some cities may charge local taxes that can only be collected by hotel at destination.
we requested a separate bed and a larger room and all hotels delivered on this sometimes tricky request.
edinburgh arrive for 1 nights 2 nights 3 nights 4 nights 5 nights 6 nights 7 nights 8 nights 9 nights 10 nights 11 nights 12 nights 13 nights 14 nights you may select your dates here or use the calendar above day 1 arrive to edinburgh overnight in edinburgh 143 hotels offered optional 55 things to do day 2
departing from paris add a day in paris delete a day in paris customize and book with int'l flight without int 'l
subscribe all ed receive the latest deals for travel to europe subscribe receive the latest deals for travel to africa, asia, europe, carribean and latin america.
london 1 nts 2 nts 3 nts 4 nts 5 nts 6 nts 7 nts 8 nts 9 nts 10 nts 11 nts 12 nts 13 nts 14 nts 3.
the airfare portion of the itinerary price is based on economy class, midweek departure.
eurostar from london to paris • hotel for 2 nights in paris • daily breakfast (if stated in hotel info) • hotel taxes related packages: edinburgh (28) england (123) france (280) london (124) paris (254) scotland (29) share | price history for this itinerary (past 14 days): from atlanta, ga for 9 nights $2,542 * incl.tax from new york,john f kennedy, ny for 6 nights $1,743 * incl.tax from pensacola, fl for 8 nights $2,383 * incl.tax from san francisco, ca for 6 nights $2,399 * incl.tax customize and book with int'l flight without int 'l
flexible itinerary edinburgh edinburgh has an  almost fairy-tale setting and every step is a revelation.
please contact us for any special arrangements such as more than one room and partial stays.
subscribe to our mailing list: and receive our latest deals!
edinburgh 1 nts 2 nts 3 nts 4 nts 5 nts 6 nts 7 nts 8 nts 9 nts 10 nts 11 nts 12 nts 13 nts 14 nts 2.
the sounds of brit-pop and techno pour out of  victorian pubs; experimental theater is popping up on stages built for  shakespeare's plays; and brits are even running the couture houses of dior and  givenchy.
keep browsing europeandestinations.com customer feedback overall, the vacation was fantastic.
looking for more destinations?
site powered by recommended browsers: windows > internet explorer apple > mozilla firefox
overnight in paris 607 hotels offered optional 349 things to do day 6 overnight in paris 607 hotels offered optional 349 things to do day 7
add a day in paris delete a day in paris customize and book  with int'l flight without int 'l
above it all stands  edinburgh castle perched high on its volcanic rock looking down on a city where  medieval lanes and elegant, sweeping terraces hold over ten centuries of  history, mystery and tradition.
edinburgh arrive for  1 nights  2 nights  3 nights  4 nights  5 nights  6 nights  7 nights  8 nights  9 nights   10 nights  11 nights  12 nights  13 nights  14 nights you may  select your dates here or use the calendar above day 1  arrive to   edinburgh overnight in edinburgh    143 hotels offered optional    55 things to do day 2  overnight in  edinburgh   143 hotels offered optional     55 things  to do day 3  departing from edinburgh transportation to next city:  by train  add a day in edinburgh delete a day in edinburgh london london just isn't what it used to be.
paris is relatively small as capitals go, with distances between many of its major sights and museums invariably walkable.
unforgettable walks  exhibiting the best of paris: stroll down the champs-elysees for the chic grand  boulevard experience and rue cler for a more intimate snapshot of parisian  living.
we had five peop...more build
subscribe receive the latest deals for travel to latin america subscribe receive the latest deals for travel to mexico, the carribean and hawaii subscribe we have updated your subscription preferences.
london for 1 nights 2 nights 3 nights 4 nights 5 nights 6 nights 7 nights 8 nights 9 nights 10 nights 11 nights 12 nights 13 nights 14 nights day 3 arrive to london
home | about us | contact us | terms |
bucharest russia vacations: moscow, st_petersburg slovakia vacations: bratislava slovenia vacations: ljubljana scotland vacations: glasgow, edinburgh spain vacations: madrid, barcelona, seville sweden vacations:
sample prices were for a specific travel date and specific departure airport, as indicated.
paris is a city of vast perspectives and  intimate streets, of formal espaces verts (green open spaces) and of quiet  squares.
paris is a city of vast perspectives and intimate streets, of formal espaces verts (green open spaces) and of quiet squares.
prices may change dynamically and at times significantly numerous times during any given day.
overnight in edinburgh 143 hotels offered optional 55 things to do day 3 departing from edinburgh transportation to next city: by train add a day in edinburgh delete a day in edinburgh london london just isn't what it used to be.
flight from: cabin: coach business first class arrival date: adult(s) 0 1 2 children child age(s) 1 2 3 4 1 room(s)
london for  1  nights  2 nights  3 nights  4 nights  5 nights  6 nights  7 nights  8 nights  9  nights  10 nights  11 nights  12 nights  13 nights  14 nights day 3  arrive to  london overnight in london    579 hotels  offered optional     247 things to do day 4  overnight in  london   579 hotels offered optional     247 things  to do day 5  departing from london transportation to next city:
a blend of old and new, pace and buzz alongside peace and tranquility, and an amazingly diverse cultural scene.
stockholm switzerland vacations: bern, geneva, zurich turkey vacations:
by train add a day in london delete a day in london paris paris assaults the senses, demanding to be seen, heard, touched, tasted and smelled.
flexible itinerary edinburgh edinburgh has an almost fairy-tale setting and every step is a revelation.
paris is relatively small as capitals go, with distances between many  of its major sights and museums invariably walkable.
california seller of travel registration #: 2051869-40, ohio registered tour promoter#: 88 89 0058.
* sample prices displayed include international and domestic airline tickets as per itinerary and all airline-related taxes and fuel surcharges and are per person, based on double occupancy, and are dynamic in nature.
please contact  us for any special arrangements such as more than one room and partial stays.
your booking | before you go | testimonials | payments | security | insurance | faq | car | ancillary fees austria vacations: salzburg ,vienna belgium vacations: brussels croatia vacations: dubrovnik, split, zagreb czech vacations:
gaze impressive monuments and savor its gourmet pastiche of  cheese, chocolate, wine and seafood.
through an oem agreement with tournet we have been able to customize and enhance the source code to our particular needs.
close x tournet is the engine that runs our applications.
another trip in seconds edinburgh - london - paris 2 customer feedbacks edinburgh, london and paris by train.
unforgettable walks exhibiting the best of paris: stroll down the champs-elysees for the chic grand boulevard experience and rue cler for a more intimate snapshot of parisian living.
another trip in seconds - this field is required.
by  train  add a day in london delete a day in london paris paris assaults the senses, demanding to be seen, heard, touched,  tasted and smelled.
1-877-267-2247 home | check your booking | top deals | custom groups | air only destinations =
choose your own departure city and dates.
in food, fashion, film, music, the visual arts, and just about everything else, london stands at the cutting edge again, just as it did in the 1960s.
it also does not include any entrance fees or visa fees that may be charged at international airports.
overnight in london 579 hotels offered optional 247 things to do day 4 overnight in london 579 hotels offered optional 247 things to do day 5 departing from london transportation to next city:
your prices will vary according to departure cities and travel dates.
gaze impressive monuments and savor its gourmet pastiche of cheese, chocolate, wine and seafood.
istanbul ukraine vacations:
chat help call us 24 hours a day
paris for  1 nights  2 nights  3 nights  4 nights  5 nights  6  nights  7 nights  8 nights  9 nights  10 nights  11 nights  12 nights  13 nights  14 nights day 5  arrive to  paris overnight in  paris   607 hotels offered optional     349 things to  do day 6  overnight in paris
- must be a valid username.
paris 1 nts 2 nts 3 nts 4 nts 5 nts 6 nts 7 nts 8 nts 9 nts 10 nts 11 nts 12 nts 13 nts 14 nts adult(s) 0 1 2 children child age(s) 1 2 3 4 1 room(s)
all airfare arrangements were as promised and were on time as well as the arranged train travel.
close window [ x ] thanks for subscribing to europeandestinations.com!
in food, fashion, film, music, the visual arts, and just about  everything else, london stands at the cutting edge again, just as it did in the  1960s.
paris for 1 nights 2 nights 3 nights 4 nights 5 nights 6 nights 7 nights 8 nights 9 nights 10 nights 11 nights 12 nights 13 nights 14 nights day 5 arrive to paris
hotel for 2 nights in edinburgh • express from edinburgh to london • hotel for 2 nights in london •
fix = blk home | scotland overall, the vacation was fantastic.
above it all stands edinburgh castle perched high on its volcanic rock looking down on a city where medieval lanes and elegant, sweeping terraces hold over ten centuries of history, mystery and tradition.
scot andrew drake read 2 other feedbacks itinerary detail total price for 5 passengers (4 adults and 1 child): $13991.69 flights included from charleston, wv mar 24: hotel novotel edinburgh park_, 4 stars for 2 night(s) mar 26: hotel crowne plaza st james., 4 stars for 3 night(s) mar 29: transfer - eurostar #9022 (london to paris)
or build another trip in seconds subscribe to our mailing list: and receive our latest deals!
you will now receive european destinations latest deals you can also subscribe to our sister brands to receive more travel deals:
itinerary includes: • international round-trip airfare • flight into edinburgh and out of paris •
try: mexico/caribbean/hawaii | latin america | asia & south pacific © copyright 1998 europeandestinations.com.
prices do not include insurance or delivery charges which are optional and customizable by the traveler.
its magnificent architecture shifts from the proud tenements of its medieval old town, to the grace and geometric precision of the georgian new town.
a  blend of old and new, pace and buzz alongside peace and tranquility, and an  amazingly diverse cultural scene.
6 nights from $1,744 w/air, hotel & air taxes* this sample price includes all air taxes & fuel surcharges: priced within the past 7 days for arrival on wednesday, september 12, 2012, departure from new york,john f kennedy, ny.
prices were accurate at the time we posted them.
the sounds of brit-pop and techno pour out of victorian pubs; experimental theater is popping up on stages built for shakespeare's plays; and brits are even running the couture houses of dior and givenchy.
prices do not include fees for carry on or checked baggage which can add up to $120 per ticket on a roundtrip flight.
kiev wales vacations: cardiff close x tournet is the engine that runs our applications.
its magnificent  architecture shifts from the proud tenements of its medieval old town, to the  grace and geometric precision of the georgian new town.
we had five people in our party and were traveling with two rooms reserved... on with three people including a 10yo...
flight cabin: coach business first class arrival date: adult(s)    0 1 2   children child age(s)
prague denmark vacations: copenhagen england vacations: london finland vacations: helsinki france vacations: paris, nice germany vacations: berlin, cologne, dusseldorf, frankfurt, hamburg, hannover, munich, stuttgart greece vacations: athens hungary vacations: budapest iceland vacations: reykjavik ireland vacations: dublin italy vacations: rome, venice, florence, naples, bologna, milan luxembourg vacations: luxemburg monaco vacations: monte carlo netherlands vacations: amsterdam, rotterdam norway vacations: oslo poland vacations: krakow, warsaw portugal vacations: lisbon romania vacations:
we do not control prices (airlines and hotel reservation systems do).
607 hotels offered optional    349 things to do day 7  departing from paris
flight from: cabin: coach business first class destinations arrival date stay 1.
but rest assured that traditional london survives.