march 2006 went cafe a lil while ago and i was in vip, drinks were way too expensive!
music was just amazing although, i agree with a lot of the people commenting, the drinks were way too expensive!
i  enjoyed the excellent service on the vip table that was offered to me, the  hosts were not only friendly but very good looking as well.
i  ended up not going in vip at all as it was rubbish.
no guestlists needed usually so you can just go  there if you did not plan anything else.
not too rnb as that is getting sooo dull at the mo!
mixed  clientele good atmosphere.
reviewed by tinks |  hertfordshire | 2nd november 2005 i went to cafe de paris for the third time last night, and my mates and i  ended up going there because we always get vip and it is only £10 to get  in.
the music was decent, and the place was set us very cool, i loved the  staircase and blue room.
a fantastic venue, great atmosphere, great crowd, awesome decor.
went with the g/f was a brilliant nite, always enjoying going there love the set out however the downside is the music sometimes hardly enough rnb!!
holding  over 700 people, the venue contains three separate bars in addition to the  mezzanine and main dance floor—the red bar, the blue bar and the fantasy  rooms (vip area).
also, my friend bought two doubles and coke, and it came to £18.
so on the way in he ushered us past the queue of people ( who looked  angry because they had to queue) and went inside.
the podium dancers are great and the lighting is quite cool.
and it is only £10 to get in.
i will definitely go back when i go back to  london reviewed by kristin | orlando | 9th  june 2005 music was good (bit of funky vocals), drinks were good and the people were  great!
but overall had a good night and shall be returning, perhaps this time on a different night when the men weren't so sleazy....!
loads of good  looking girls and not too much attitude.
loved the decor and the  atmosphere, drinks a bit expensive but had a good night.
reviewed by sarah | london | 24th january 2007 i had a very exciting evening in cafe de paris!
door  man great and on a whole the night was a brillaint nightx reviewed by keighly | london | 10th august 2006 cafe de paris is a great cheap thrill; it's not worth the entrance fee but  it's an okkk place to go to if it's your second choice and
but on the whole a  good nite out reviewed by michelle |  london | 2nd may 2006 it was gud apart from the dance and house music please play moe rnb and  dancehall eg sean paul and not " the song let the sunshine " it was  really bad and didnt get me in the mood for dancing until i heard some  dancehall sean paul and nina sky if you played less dance and house i garantee  that the night will be a total sucess and even more people wud recommend cafe  de paris.
but i still had a great time.
hope he gets to perform there again soon!
the band was the best!
proffessional staff, and not too many protentious people.
drinks are as  expected of this area.
and the club is really swish.
you get a feeling that you should be honoured to be there; but youre surrounded by 21 year old students!
my friend was performing  his football tricks (daniel magnus) and the crowd loved him and there was such  a good atmosphere!
but  overall it was good!!
reviewed by peter |  london | 1st july 2005 we went saturday night, and this club is expensive for what it is, the  cocktails tasted more like juices and cost too much the music was ok, the  crowds were ok as well.
reviewed by teena  x | london | 8th february 2006 went to the club a couple of fridays ago, thought it was really good.
top night,, pure chilled stuff i really enjoy cafe de paris, i've been a few times and love the place, it gets a little over crowded sometimes with rude looking guys.
it’s such a shame with the history of this place that it attracts such  an awful clientele (but then it is just a stone's throw from leicester square).
sat night there was very overrated, dissapointed with the music as well as the croud.
i really enjoyed cafe de paris, it had all of the right ingredients.
but the first 2 times were a lot better.
i loved it here good crowd exellent music funky house and r and b. lovely staff great night out esp if you have a table!
and the men there were  horrible.
but overall it was good!!
well cant have everything!
hope you get  these guys back to play soon!
musically , along with big tunes at the  moment, there was quality funky and electro house with a sprinkle of rnb so  fantastic.
the crowd on the vip blacony is fab always spoting someone!
its so hard to get in..but  once there..get some good cocktails and u are treated as a king, no doubts.
so on the way in he ushered us past the queue of people ( who looked angry because they had to queue) and went inside.
went here last night with 2 male friends had a great night.
the best club in the whole country !!!
reviewed by  yasmine | london/paris/geneva | 19th october 2004 add your review
£15 entry cost on saturday nights- its probably only worth £10.
reviewed by chiara |  italy | 9th june 2006 i went to this club last friday - nice place, friendly doorstaff with no  bad attitudes.
men that work there  were full of compliments towards me ( which made my bf jealous lol) and rest of  staff were fine!
reviewed by model by day , player by night |  london | 7th april 2005 sat night there was very overrated, dissapointed with the music as well as  the croud.
well  cant have everything!
i will definately be going back reviewed by kenny | london | 2nd july 2007
but it's an okkk place to go to if it's your second choice and your first hasn't let you in (yess it happened), i was told it would be the next best place down from cc - i strongly disagree but that's what you get for listening to a promoter!
holding over 700 people, the venue contains three separate bars in addition to the mezzanine and main dance floor—the red bar, the blue bar and the fantasy rooms (vip area).
men that work there were full of compliments towards me ( which made my bf jealous lol) and rest of staff were fine!
reviewed by persian boy | london | 1st november 2004 i really like the café de paris.
add your review subscribe
i was in the cafe de paris last sat and foud that the venue not only was a beautiful site to see but the atmosphere was of a extremely high standard.
reviewed by emma | north  wales | 14th july 2008
had no problem  getting in as we had put ourself on the guest list prior to going.
i would recommend  this club to anyone who is looking for a sophisticated and fun night out.
went cafe a lil while ago and i was in vip, drinks were way too expensive!
the music was decent, and the place was set us very cool, i loved the staircase and blue room.
we went saturday night, and this club is expensive for what it is, the cocktails tasted more like juices and cost too much the music was ok, the crowds were ok as well.
had an awesome night the other eviews need to pipe down and go out in briston if they fancy some more hip hop!!
i went to this club last friday - nice place, friendly doorstaff with no bad attitudes.
i enjoyed the excellent service on the vip table that was offered to me, the hosts were not only friendly but very good looking as well.
i need  to found him.
if you would like to subscribe to the feneo mailing list please enter your email address above.
lots of very good looking females and the bar staff were great.
lots of very  good looking females and the bar staff were great.
over all this club is over rated... reviewed by izabella | seattle, usa |  24th june 2005
try and get vip as you'll be able to sit and chat while the club fills up...also allows you to stay till 4am ;-) nice atmosphere, nice people!
reviewed by eric |  hammersmith | 16th july 2007 simply the best ever in london reviewed by govinda soobrayen | london | 3rd july 2007
its such a shame with the history of this place that it attracts such an awful clientele (but then it is just a stone's throw from leicester square).
i thought the prices were about average for a west end club, however i did find the v.i.p area a little crowded.
i will definitely go back when i go back to london music was good (bit of funky vocals), drinks were good and the people were great!
but overall had a good night and shall be  returning, perhaps this time on a different night when the men weren't so  sleazy....!
a strict door seems to keep the idiots  out.
i would recommend this club to anyone who is looking for a sophisticated and fun night out.
all style music and dancers.
reviewed by sebastian |  london | 7th december 2004 i dont like this club too much-its too big, and its too much space for  dancing.
this pplace is really great, nothing else like it in london.
please if someone have an  idea ...help me!
i thought the prices  were about average for a west end club, however i did find the v.i.p area a  little crowded.
there were too many people, and it  was completly crowded, the dj must have played every song more than two times,  vip had far too many people in there, an it is only small so it was sooo hot.
highly recommend this club for a great time and no attitude night!
you just want to whisper in their ear: 'you just work in a nightclub darling,  cut the attitude'.
but i still had a great  time.
we met a  promoter outside and got a good discount on the entry price and jumped the que!
i had a very exciting evening in cafe de paris!
very friendly staff, strict door  policy but not a stupid one!
reviewed by gareth | cambridge | 27th january 2008 loved it!!!
reviewed by kat | london |  2nd july 2005 no idiots at all!
we met a promoter outside and got a good discount on the entry price and jumped the que!
thank god i knew the promoters so i got free drinks in the vip room.
the drinks are a bit pricey but what do you expect in the west end.
simply the best ever in london
had no problem getting in as we had put ourself on the guest list prior to going.
the major let downs are the drinks prices (normal for  leicester sq though) and some of the people that get in- too many  "gangsters" for somewhere that wants to appear classy; who lets  people wearing white trainers into a club?
with so much choice in central london now, we thought  we'd try cafe de paris after not going for sometime.
haven't seen a band this good in a very long time!
reviewed by yousouf  | london | 1st
we were treated to our own table and the staff were very  friendly!
reviewed by mike | london | 10th april 2006 went with the g/f was a brilliant nite, always enjoying going there love  the set out however the downside is the music sometimes hardly enough rnb!!
doenst pull in a good crowd either.
you get a feeling  that you should be honoured to be there; but you’re surrounded by 21 year  old students!
looking for a boy i knew in the cafe' de paris saturday 3 june...
my friend was performing his football tricks (daniel magnus) and the crowd loved him and there was such a good atmosphere!
reviewed by barbara | queens | 8th  september 2007 excellent , excelente , excelentissimo.. simply the best club in west  london !!!
i will definately be going back i really enjoyed cafe de paris, it had all of the right ingredients.
my lasting memory will be when i  asked for a drink and the barman replied "you get f all unless you say  please".
still a great venue.
we were treated to our own table and the staff were very friendly!
they were playing some top tunes from an album called  sounds of the beautiful balerics by starz.
not too rnb as that is getting sooo dull at the  mo!
music wasnt too great either.
i went to cafe de paris for the third time last night, and my mates and i ended up going there because we always get vip
try and get vip as you'll be able to sit  and chat while the club fills up...also allows you to stay till 4am ;-) reviewed by michael | london | 13th may 2005 nice atmosphere, nice people!
lighting is brilliant, sound is cool but would love to hear a little more funkier house tunes, was not too keen on the oldies!!
i knew the promoters so i got free drinks in the vip room.
loads of good looking girls and not too much attitude.
i think that comment sums the establishment up.
musically , along with big tunes at the moment, there was quality funky and electro house with a sprinkle of rnb so fantastic.
nice venue, nice drinks,  good music, if only it was dirt sheap, would be pretty much perfect then!
with so much choice in central london now, we thought we'd try cafe de paris after not going for sometime.
reviewed  by sabrina | london | 11th july 2006 the music at cafe rocks!
highly recommend this club  for a great time and no attitude night!
cafe de paris (3 coventry street, london w1d 6bl) café de paris is all about dazzling glamour and opulence.
highly recommended !!
hope you get these guys back to play soon!
overal - much over-rated
my favorite part was the really hot bartender from argentina, he was very nice.
the podium dancers are great and the  lighting is quite cool.
top night,, pure chilled stuff reviewed by mikey | london | 7th september 2006 i really enjoy cafe de paris, i've been a few times and love the place, it  gets a little over crowded sometimes with rude looking guys.
reviewed by rebecca kinge | guildford | 19th  september 2006 i love this place.
the music at cafe rocks!
no guestlists needed usually so you can just go there if you did not plan anything else.
i loved it here good crowd exellent music funky house and r and b. lovely  staff great night out esp if you have a table!
i dont like this club too much-its too big, and its too much space for dancing.
went to cafe de paris with my boyfriend on our first night in london, at first i was a bit apprehensive because id never been out in london before, but a very good looking bouncer approached us outside the club and actually invited us in.
had an awesome  night the other eviews need to pipe down and go out in briston if they fancy  some more hip hop!!
door man great and on a whole the night was a brillaint nightx cafe de paris is a great cheap thrill; it's not worth the entrance fee
the crowd is a better mix  now and the atmosphere was excellent.
but at the end of the day its your choice
over all this club is over rated...
nice venue, nice drinks, good music, if only it was dirt sheap, would be pretty much perfect then!
the  hague | 14th january 2008 went to see danmingo the other night.
its so hard to get in..but once there..get some good cocktails and u are treated as a king, no doubts.
but on the whole a good nite out it was gud apart from the dance and house music please play moe rnb and dancehall eg sean paul and not " the song let the sunshine " it was really bad and didnt get me in the mood for dancing until i heard some dancehall sean paul and nina sky if you played less dance and house i garantee that the night will be a total sucess and even more people wud recommend cafe de paris.
loved the decor and the atmosphere, drinks a bit expensive but had a good night.
my lasting memory will be when i asked for a drink and the barman replied "you get f all unless you say please".
drinks are as expected of this area.
reviewed by farah |  midlands | 7th march 2007 still a great venue.
click here for more information or mail  us oninfo@feneo.com for enquires went to cafe de paris with my boyfriend on our first night in london, at  first i was a bit apprehensive because id never been out in london before, but  a very good looking bouncer approached us outside the club and actually invited  us in.
reviewed by shannel | london | 28th february 2005
overall it felt too posh for me :p and the men there were alot older than me!
you just want to whisper in their ear: 'you just work in a nightclub darling, cut the attitude'.
fun times all in all!
they were playing some top tunes from an album called sounds of the beautiful balerics by starz.
your first hasn't  let you in (yess it happened), i was told it would be the next best place down  from cc - i strongly disagree but that's what you get for listening to a  promoter!
music  wasnt too great either.
send to a friend simply enter the details above and this webpage will be sent.
lighting is brilliant, sound is cool but would love to  hear a little more funkier house tunes, was not too keen on the oldies!!
although i loved the decor the place is like a huge hotel and i felt lost half the time (maybe caused by alchohol!)
the drinks are a bit pricey but what do you expect in the west  end.
the food is actually really good, but again spoilt by such awful staff that seem to have an over inflated opinion of their own self importance.
went to see danmingo the other night.
overall it felt too posh for me :p and the men there  were alot older than me!
music  was just amazing although, i agree with a lot of the people commenting, the  drinks were way too expensive!
there were too many people, and it was completly crowded, the dj must have played every song more than two times, vip had far too many people in there, an it is only small so it was sooo hot.
the cafe suffers from having a clientele that has probably got a minibus from  southend for 'tracey’s hen night’.
the food is actually really good, but again spoilt by such awful  staff that seem to have an over inflated opinion of their own self importance.
please if someone have an idea ...help me!
reviewed by ash | london | 27th april 2005 i was in the cafe de paris last sat and foud that the venue not only was a  beautiful site to see but the atmosphere was of a extremely high standard.
went to the club a couple of fridays ago, thought it was really good.
great place to be on saturday nights!!!
i ended up not going in vip at all as it was rubbish.
reviewed by lily | london | 8th  october 2005 a fantastic venue, great atmosphere, great crowd, awesome decor.
also, my friend bought two  doubles and coke, and it came to £18.
he lives in london and came from paris.
and the men there were horrible.
reviewed by naewel | london | 26th  april 2006 not a bad place, but as mentioned, if you get there too early then expect  to hear the same songs a couple of times.
overal - much over-rated reviewed by alisha | | 31st march 2005
i really like the café de paris.
my favorite part was the really hot bartender from  argentina, he was very nice.
excellent , excelente , excelentissimo.. simply the best club in west london !!!
not a bad place, but as mentioned, if you get there too early then expect to hear the same songs a couple of times.
reviewed by clare |  london | 6th july 2006 i'm looking for a boy i knew in the cafe' de paris saturday 3 june...
overall i had a great night.
we won't leave it so long next time!!!
a strict door seems to keep the idiots out.
as mentioned by others, the musis need sorting out!!
the crowd is a better mix now and the atmosphere was excellent.
the major let downs are the drinks prices (normal for leicester sq though) and some of the people that get in- too many "gangsters" for somewhere that wants to appear classy; who lets people wearing white trainers into a club?
£15 entry cost on saturday  nights- its probably only worth £10.
mixed clientele good atmosphere.
very friendly staff, strict door policy but not a stupid one!
although i loved the decor the place is like a huge hotel and i felt  lost half the time (maybe caused by alchohol!)
the cafe suffers from having a clientele that has probably got a minibus from southend for 'traceys hen night.