a dream destination for every traveler, paris is rarely considered a haven for families.
this book is not only an account of her time in paris, but also a goldmine ofbonnes addresses (in both paris and new york) for dessert lovers.
continue reading » posted in events, food, parisian living, travel | 12 comments » kid-friendly travel: an american family visits the city of lights february 13, 2012  by michelle lehnardt after half a day in the airport, a canceled flight and a sleepless passage  over the ocean, i expected my children to nap away our first day in the city of  lights.
as amy weathered the highs and lows of expat life, she also covered serious ground in the dessert department, hitting all of paris’ confectionary hotspots and sampling the city’s most decadent delights.
i set out on a mission to  discover the seasonal delights that france’s most romantic city had to  offer.
this woman knows her way around apâtisserie, and serious sugar-high seekers would do well to heed amy’s recommendations.
the lines are shorter  at our favorite museums and sights, and the restaurants put their best foot  forward for the locals - steak frites never tasted so good!
with a few simple adjustments to my habitual paris routines, seeing the  city anew was easy.
of course, part of the fun of  travel is making new friends.
here are a few ideas:continue reading » posted in parisian living, travel | 13 comments » december 15, 2011 by victoria wall
similarly, if i did ride the metro, i used it to reach pockets of paris that i’d never seen or strolled before.
continue reading » posted in homes, travel | 10 comments » october 6, 2011 by amy thomas
what exactly is a parisian christmas?
, i  wandered sans worry.
which explains the  two-hour queues.
do you really need  another reason to hop on the 8:13 eurostar and spend the day in london?
the winter months are absolutely wonderful in paris.
what could be so bad?
what happens in  the cold windy days leading up to the big event?
in addition to making me hungry, amy’s writing transported me back to paris, a trip i am ever-eager to make, if only vicariously.
we gazed at the arc de triomphe from our window  and the metro stop was literally right outside the front door.
continue  reading » posted in parisian living, travel | 2 comments » expat special: what to do with one month in paris january 30, 2012  by nicole gustin piyapat ch you’re about to realize your dream: living in paris for a month.
le chateau: i spot the photo in the back of a french bridal  magazine;chateau des conde, in the village of vallery about 90 minutes  south of paris.
although the christmas shopping frenzy begins relatively late in paris  (thankfully, shops only step into gear at the end of november), once it gets  going, it really gets going.
paris, my sweet; takashi as amy weathered the highs and lows of expat life, she also covered serious  ground in the dessert department, hitting all of paris’ confectionary  hotspots and sampling the city’s most decadent delights.
contact us now to begin planning your paris visit, and we look forward to finalizing all the details on november 25th.
a stroll down marylebone high street will reveal everything from colorful home accessories at designers guild and emma bridgewater to beauty supplies at space nk and boots.
let those pastel-colored, frosting-slathered,  sprinkled-adorned, oh-so-cute sugar bombs be over!
continue reading » posted in events, shopping, travel | 5 comments » december 9, 2011 by amy thomas amy thomas loves london, and so do we.
paris, my sweet is a guidebook of sorts, but it’s also just  a fun and decadent read—i devoured it in less than 48 hours, pausing only  to scrounge up some chocolate now and again.
let’s face it, it’s the riviera, the  côte d’azur, the land of the rich and famous with the blue  mediterranean sea, balmy weather, palm trees and italian flavor.
quit her job, pack her bags and move to paris, of course!
below, i caught up with the author to talk paris, pastries, and ultimately picking her favorite city.
while not cheap, parisian retreats are about the same price as a  trip to disney world.
of course, part of the fun of travel is making new friends.
nice, i was actually un peu perturbed.
in fact, we adore it so  much we just launched our very first london vacation apartment, a gorgeous  2-bedroom rental in the heart of chelsea.
my family spent a marvelous week in hip’s gorgeous champs elysées; everything from the darling girl who met us at the apartment to the plush bedding, was perfect.
summer vines climb stone walls and window boxes spill with blooms.
you imagine strolling through the city, taking in the sights, hanging out  at cafés, and being…parisian.
this book is not  only an account of her time in paris, but also a goldmine ofbonnes addresses (in both paris and new york) for dessert lovers.
my family spent a marvelous week in hip’s gorgeous champs  elysées; everything from the darling girl who met us at the apartment to  the plush bedding, was perfect.
below, i caught up with the author to talk paris, pastries, and ultimately  picking her favorite city.
continue  reading » posted in travel | 3 comments » photographing paris:
negotiating real estate a la niçoise october 12, 2011  by adrian leeds navigating the real estate scene in france can be tricky — even  more so when you are unfamiliar with the labyrinthine bureaucracy and unusual  quirks the french can be known for.
americans want  and expect a higher standard of luxury and service than their european  counterparts know how to provide.
but the magic of paris revived us and it was 11 p.m., admiring the fire  dancers at le sacre coeur when my son said, “mom, can i get an ‘i  love paris’ t-shirt?
the first concern is  usually cost.
paris’ best bike shops coffee in paris?
i love doing this and particularly in a place like paris, both for the  dreamy photo opps and for the priceless experience of watching timeless  cityscapes come to life.
once caf’ed up, head to nearby marylebone, where the shopping is as spectacular as the architecture.
the daily menu at lantana from gare du nord to st pancras in just over two hours?
plus it’s just about the only way you’re going to score some private time with landmarks like la tour eiffel.
while the british and italians are well served by their own compatriots, americans have been overlooked.
but with the exception of savvy new yorkers who used to raid the  champs-elysées store for a box of technicolor two-bite treats, and then  proudly parade their pale green shopping bags around the upper east side, the  french brand has remained an exotic import to new yorkers.
so when i found myself “stuck” in paris for two weeks last spring per that little volcanic kerfuffle in iceland instead of down south in new-to-me nice, i was actually un peu perturbed.
property in nice and its environs is increasing in value on a steady basis.
while the british and italians are well  served by their own compatriots, americans have been overlooked.
a dream destination for every traveler, paris is rarely considered a haven  for families.
here are a few ideas:continue  reading » posted in parisian living, travel | 13 comments » christmas in the city of lights: seeking out paris’ holiday cheer december 15, 2011  by victoria wall mic mac when i popped home to the uk in november, london was already in full  festive swing with christmas trees, festive songs and neon lights galore.
i’d like to challenge that assumption.
what could be  so bad?
making magique yet once back home across the pond, i realized paris hadn’t joined in  on the fun yet.
traveling  to nice from paris is fast and inexpensive, making weekend getaways about as  easy as it gets — a perfect antidote to the cold, gray, rainy winters in  paris.
michel nguyen; yuwen
continue reading » posted in events, food, parisian living, travel | 12 comments » february 13, 2012 by michelle lehnardt after half a day in the airport, a canceled flight and a sleepless passage over the ocean, i expected my children to nap away our first day in the city of lights.
after settling into the reality that i’d be in paris awhile — and potentially a really long while if that blasted eyjafjallajökull didn’t pipe down already, i finally began to relax and reflect on how best to start a fresh relationship with this city i had captured through my lens so many times before.
similarly, if i did  ride the metro, i used it to reach pockets of paris that i’d never seen  or strolled before.
home  •   twitter   facebook   rss    •    subscribe to newsletter paris, my sweet: amy thomas’s drool-inducing new book on paris and  new york’s best desserts february 16, 2012  by tory hoen lindsey tramuta
continue reading » posted in homes, travel | 10 comments » ladurée: parisian macarons land in new york october 6, 2011  by amy thomas ladurée macarons in their sleek box (louis beche)
the location  made transportation easy and delightful.
it’s no surprise that she fell hard for the city upon arrival; and it’s also no surprise that, once the initial parisian shine wore off, amy ultimately came to see the city’s not-quite-so-sweet side.
amy thomas regales us with stories from her two-year stint in paris, where she wrote advertising copy for louis vuitton by day and scoured the city for sweets in her spare time.
it’s at this point that the story  really starts to ring true for those of us who have been expats in paris:  you’re simultaneously charmed and alienated, comforted and challenged,  energized and exhausted.
the key to tackling the jolly old british capital in just a day is to focus on a select few neighborhoods—and fuel up on caffeine immediately after arriving.
a stroll down marylebone high street will  reveal everything from colorful home accessories at designers guild and  emma bridgewater to beauty supplies at space nk and boots.
continue  reading » posted in parisian living, travel | 15 comments » planning a wedding in france: saying “i do” in a french chateau february 10, 2012  by paige bradley frost “i’ve just been offered a job in paris,” my boyfriend of  one year announced.
we call ahead and arrange to visit.
now that’s a deal to write home about…from your perfect pied-a-terre in the city of light!
rather than defaulting to the subway, the bus became my primary mode of public transportation.
both can be accomplished atlantana in fitzrovia, a relatively quick walk west of the san pancras train station.
paris’s iconic department stores.
the chateau dates back to the 12th century, boasts 22 rooms to host our future guests and a reception salon designed by the architect responsible for thecour
the toasted banana bread with  blueberry butter is divine and a “flat white,” more delicious than  the bestcafé crème, will put a spring in your step all  day.
“i won’t even consider it if you’re going  to rule out coming with me…” huh?
adrian leeds, who specializes in helping americans negotiate the market to secure their dream pied-à-terres in france, just recently ventured into the market in nice.
where the delicious flat whites at lantana are made the key to tackling the jolly old british capital in just a day is to focus  on a select few neighborhoods—and fuel up on caffeine immediately after  arriving.
so what’s a  young, gainfully employed, woman-in-love to do?
you imagine strolling through the city, taking in the sights, hanging out at cafés, and being…parisian.
carree at the louvre.
rather  than defaulting to the subway, the bus became my primary mode of public  transportation.
now that’s a deal to write home about…from your perfect  pied-a-terre in the city of light!
paris, my sweet is a guidebook of sorts, but it’s also just a fun and decadent read—i devoured it in less than 48 hours, pausing only to scrounge up some chocolate now and again.
unless you’re willing to stay out way after dark, which isn’t really my thing, but man — talk about interesting photo opportunities.
property in nice and its environs is increasing in value on a steady  basis.
in addition to making me hungry,  amy’s writing transported me back to paris, a trip i am ever-eager to  make, if only vicariously.
whilst london has  toy-filled hamleys and elegant harrods, paris showcases its trademark  sophistication with les galleries lafayette and the neighbouring printemps,  where karl lagerfeld’s touch marks this year’s displays: think  chanel-clad rock ‘n’ roll dolls strumming their electric guitars  and 20m christmas trees.
continue reading » posted in events, shopping, travel | 5 comments » a day in london: amy’s perfect one-day itinerary december 9, 2011  by amy thomas amy thomas loves london, and so do we.
let those pastel-colored, frosting-slathered, sprinkled-adorned, oh-so-cute sugar bombs be over!
adrian leeds, who specializes in  helping americans negotiate the market to secure their dream  pied-à-terres in france,  just recently ventured into the market in  nice.
nice - marisa williams 3.
for years, everyone—especially new yorkers—has been clamoring  for the death of the cupcakes.
she shares a few anecdotes from her colorful experiences here.
you found an apartment, booked your flight, and learned how to ask forles toilettes.
my problem with paris (and what a wonderful challenge to have) is that after so many visits, what was once a mysterious new wonderland to discover and dissect through the lens is now a favorite, intimately familiar old haunt.
to be fair, by the time i made it to ladurée, three weeks after it opened, the line was down to a 15-minute wait.
by the time we see the room where lenny kravitz and vanessa paradis holed up for a month scribbling lyrics, we’re more than ready to let love rule (and hand over the hefty deposit).
continue  reading » posted in london, travel | 8 comments » black friday: paris apartments on sale!
summer vines climb stone walls  and window boxes spill with blooms.
amy  thomas regales us with stories from her two-year stint in paris, where she  wrote advertising copy for louis vuitton by day and scoured the city for sweets  in her spare time.
stores go all out with light shows and designer-crafted window displays – always tasteful,bien sur.
the master bedroom in our penthievre apartment contact us now to begin planning your paris visit, and we  look forward to finalizing all the details on november 25th.
yet once back home across the pond, i realized paris hadn’t joined in on the fun yet.
of course parisians are well acquainted with ladurée, the 149-year-oldsalon de thé that purportedly invented the macaron.
what happens in the cold windy days leading up to the big event?
ladurée macarons (yuichi sakuraba) to be fair, by the time i made it to ladurée, three weeks after it  opened, the line was down to a 15-minute wait.
after several more glasses of champagne, dinner with patrice’s chic weekend guests, and an impromptu overnight in the kravitz suite, visions of a wedding bash are dancing in my head.
continue reading » posted in parisian living, travel | 15 comments » february 10, 2012 by paige bradley frost “i’ve just been offered a job in paris,” my boyfriend of one year announced.
with an international airport and an active port, the blue coast is france’s second hotspot after paris.
february 16, 2012 by tory hoen here at hip, we’re always up for a good expat adventure tale, particularly one in which desserts play a starring role.
on november 25 only, we’ll be offering amazing discounts on stays in december, january and february, including 20% off all 1-week, low season visits.
i love doing this and particularly in a place like paris, both for the dreamy photo opps and for the priceless experience of watching timeless cityscapes come to life.
but with greg off at work and a scant hour of french per week on my calendar, it quickly becomes clear: i need a project.
the first concern is usually cost.
r and r…the moment one lands at nice’s contemporary and easy airport, and you head toward nice down the promenade des anglais under the swaying palms with the sea at your side, the stress just melts away.
since we’d rather be in paris in december, january and february,  we’re offering you an amazing opportunity onfriday, november 25,  2011.
although the christmas shopping frenzy begins relatively late in paris (thankfully, shops only step into gear at the end of november), once it gets going, it really gets going.
better to survey large, unfamiliar chunks of the city that way, and scout new nooks and crannies to tackle à pied.
armed with my trusty copy of michelin’s paris par arrondissement
i was ready to start in on my advent calendar and temperatures were plunging, but where were all those tell tale signs that our favorite mid-winter festival was fast approaching?
continue reading » posted in parisian living, travel | 2 comments » january 30, 2012 by nicole gustin you’re about to realize your dream: living in paris for a month.
november 21, 2011  by haven in paris our penthievre apartment near the champs-elysées bonjour!
she shares a few anecdotes  from her colorful experiences here.
adults might find subways tedious, but  for kids riding the metro is part of the adventure.
both can be accomplished atlantana in fitzrovia, a relatively quick  walk west of the san pancras train station.
finally, coffee you can drink in the city of lights!
ahem, this is the moment i need to make a disclaimer that haven in paris isn’t compensating me in any way.
from a business perspective, nice was looking awfully nice.
once caf’ed up, head to nearby marylebone, where the shopping is as  spectacular as the architecture.
-geneviève years ago i set my eye on the goal of purchasing a “pied-à-terre” in nice for a long list of reasons: 1.
we haven’t even laid eyes on the  chateau yet
sent back with a cadbury’s chocolate advent calendar adorned with an oversized santa, i was ready to start the christmas season with a bang.
but with greg off at work  and a scant hour of french per week on my calendar, it quickly becomes clear: i  need a project.
as much as we love french hospitality, local  parisians and expats aren’t always hanging out in cafés looking  for tourists to befriend.
unless  you’re willing to stay out way after dark, which isn’t really my  thing, but man — talk about interesting photo opportunities.
one of the most important things i learned was to take the  time to explore and absorb at a leisurely clip – day or night.
after several more glasses of champagne, dinner with  patrice’s chic weekend guests, and an impromptu overnight in the kravitz  suite, visions of a wedding bash are dancing in my head.
chateau owner, architect patrice vansteenberghe, welcomes us with champagne  that we sip as we tour the grounds.
so what’s a young, gainfully employed, woman-in-love to do?
the village is french country perfection: a sleepy town center with a church,boulangerie, one restaurant, a bar/tabac and a post office.
whilst london has toy-filled hamleys and elegant harrods, paris showcases its trademark sophistication with les galleries lafayette and the neighbouring printemps, where karl lagerfeld’s touch marks this year’s displays: think chanel-clad rock ‘n’ roll dolls strumming their electric guitars and 20m christmas trees.
one of the most important things i learned was to take the time to explore and absorb at a leisurely clip – day or night.
from a business perspective, nice was looking  awfully nice.
this makes nice, and just about all of the coast, an excellent real estate investment.
we gazed at the arc de triomphe from our window and the metro stop was literally right outside the front door.
all in all, it sounds like a pretty ideal existence, but like all expats in paris, amy faced a typical series of ups and downs.
r and r…the moment one lands at nice’s contemporary and  easy airport, and you head toward nice down the promenade des anglais under the  swaying palms with the sea at your side, the stress just melts away.
at least where this francophile photog is concerned!
with a dash of creativity, there are plenty of original ways to meet people and experience a little of the true paris.
which explains the two-hour queues.
the toasted banana bread with blueberry butter is divine and a “flat white,” more delicious than the bestcafé crème, will put a spring in your step all day.
continue reading » posted in arts, travel | 7 comments » october 12, 2011 by adrian leeds
au merveilleux de fred: a meringue bakery in paris eight paris essentials and why you need them how to be a parisienne: 10 golden rules what to wear in france in the winter: tips from julie blakley ...
gorgeous furniture by designer’s guild
adults might find subways tedious, but for kids riding the metro is part of the adventure.
sent  back with a cadbury’s chocolate advent calendar adorned with an oversized  santa, i was ready to start the christmas season with a bang.
in her new book, paris, my sweet, food writer (and regular hip paris contributor!)
i decide to get serious about planning our wedding.
in the end, i don’t know what i was so worried  about!
newly engaged and living in the marais, we spend  weekends scouring flea markets for second-hand furniture and sipping cheap red  wine on our sixth-floor terrace.
i begged them to let me write about our incredible experience with hip.
and it would appear, with ladurée’s arrival on madison avenue, new  yorkers may finally get their wish: the macaron could soon trump the cupcake as  the sweetdu jour.
most people think disney world is a reasonable goal, but  why visit epcot when you can indulge in the real locale?
the village is french  country perfection: a sleepy town center with a church,boulangerie,  one restaurant, a bar/tabac and a post office.
-geneviève the beach in nice: marisa williams years ago i set my eye on the goal of purchasing a  “pied-à-terre” in nice for a long list of reasons: 1.
my boys loved navigating  the family throughout the city and the 5-day visite pass is a steal.
at least where  this francophile photog is concerned!
the dining room in our penthievre apartment instead of spending black friday* braving the crowds for lackluster deals,  you can spend that day withhaven in paris.
rental potential of vacation apartments, particularly for the north american market, is ripe for business.
here at hip, we’re always up for a good expat adventure tale,  particularly one in which desserts play a starring role.
i set out on a mission to discover the seasonal delights that france’s most romantic city had to offer.
so  when i found myself “stuck” in paris for two weeks last spring per  that little volcanic kerfuffle in iceland instead of down south in new-to-me
and it would appear, with ladurée’s arrival on madison avenue, new yorkers may finally get their wish: the macaron could soon trump the cupcake as the sweetdu jour.
“i won’t even consider it if you’re going to rule out coming with me…” huh?
chateau owner, architect patrice vansteenberghe, welcomes us with champagne that we sip as we tour the grounds.
with a few simple adjustments to my habitual paris routines, seeing the city anew was easy. even though you’re not in venice, go ahead and get lost.
as on any trip, i set my alarm to rise and shine before the sun and the city.
le chateau: i spot the photo in the back of a french bridal magazine;chateau des conde, in the village of vallery about 90 minutes south of paris.
most people think disney world is a reasonable goal, but why visit epcot when you can indulge in the real locale?
if your plan was to strike up conversation with the local artists over espresso at your neighborhood bistrot, you might want to think up a slightly more elaborate back-up plan.
with an international airport and an active port, the blue coast is  france’s second hotspot after paris.
get up early, or stay out late.
as much as we love french hospitality, local parisians and expats aren’t always hanging out in cafés looking for tourists to befriend.
this set me thinking.
this woman knows her way  around apâtisserie, and serious sugar-high seekers would do well  to heed amy’s recommendations.
my problem with paris (and what a wonderful challenge to have) is that  after so many visits, what was once a mysterious new wonderland to discover and  dissect through the lens is now a favorite, intimately familiar old haunt.
stores go all out with light shows and  designer-crafted window displays – always tasteful,bien sur.
but with the exception of savvy new yorkers who used to raid the champs-elysées store for a box of technicolor two-bite treats, and then proudly parade their pale green shopping bags around the upper east side, the french brand has remained an exotic import to new yorkers.
as if i were a macaron virgin, the dauntless teenager in front of me who had previously waited hours for a ladurée hit, told me the sweets “were totally worth the wait.”continue
rental potential of vacation apartments, particularly for the north  american market, is ripe for business.
deals on flights are everywhere; all museums in france are free for those 18 and under; public transportation is inexpensive and most importantly, an apartment rental saves a fortune over hotel accommodations.
, maybe your idea of paris includes escaping the tourist traps and discovering truly local haunts – great live music at an otherwise unassuming dive bar, or a fantastic meal at your neighborhood restaurant.
better to survey large, unfamiliar chunks of the city that way,  and scout new nooks and crannies to tackle à pied.
reading » posted in food, travel | 12 comments » « older entries french restaurant etiquette: dining in france like a local five reasons to love le bon marché
the location made transportation easy and delightful.
reading » posted in food, travel | 12 comments »« older entries french restaurant etiquette: dining in france like a local five reasons to love le bon marché paris’ best bike shops coffee in paris?
for years, everyone—especially new yorkers—has been clamoring for the death of the cupcakes.
the daily menu at lantana from gare du nord to st pancras in just over two hours?
while not cheap, parisian retreats are about the same price as a trip to disney world.
teo plus, maybe your idea of paris includes escaping the tourist traps and  discovering truly local haunts – great live music at an otherwise  unassuming dive bar, or a fantastic meal at your neighborhood restaurant.
tips from a travel photographer november 18, 2011  by marisa williams you’d think that as a travel photographer who’s endlessly  enamored of paris, finding infinite inspiration for things to shoot in the city  of light would be proverbial cake.
can we puh-leeze move on??
deals on flights are everywhere; all museums in france are free for those  18 and under; public transportation is inexpensive and most importantly, an  apartment rental saves a fortune over hotel accommodations.
after settling into the reality that i’d be in paris awhile —  and potentially a really long while if that blasted eyjafjallajökull  didn’t pipe down already, i finally began to relax and reflect on how  best to start a fresh relationship with this city i had captured through my  lens so many times before.
well, you’d be wrong.
even though you’re not in venice, go ahead and get lost.
on november  25 only, we’ll be offering amazing discounts on stays in december,  january and february, including 20% off all 1-week, low season visits.
if you’d like to do london in more than a day, and enjoy afternoon tea or cocktails in your very own central london flat, let us help you plan your trip.
navigating the real estate scene in france can be tricky — even more so when you are unfamiliar with the labyrinthine bureaucracy and unusual quirks the french can be known for.
au merveilleux de fred: a meringue bakery in paris eight paris essentials and why you need them how to be a parisienne: 10 golden rules what to wear in france in the winter: tips from julie blakley paris inspirations
with  a dash of creativity, there are plenty of original ways to meet people and  experience a little of the true paris.
continue reading » posted in london, travel | 8 comments » november 21, 2011 by haven in paris bonjour!
thanks amy for this wonderfully ambitious london itinerary.
the chateau dates back to the 12th century,  boasts 22 rooms to host our future guests and a reception salon designed by the  architect responsible for thecour carree at the louvre.
in the end, i don’t know what i was so worried about!
armed with my trusty copy of michelin’s paris par arrondissement, i wandered sans worry.
in fact, we adore it so much we just launched our very first london vacation apartment, a gorgeous 2-bedroom rental in the heart of chelsea.
it’s no surprise that  she fell hard for the city upon arrival; and it’s also no surprise that,  once the initial parisian shine wore off, amy ultimately came to see the  city’s not-quite-so-sweet side.
my boys loved navigating the family throughout the city and the 5-day visite pass is a steal.
since we’d rather be in paris in december, january and february, we’re offering you an amazing opportunity onfriday, november 25, 2011.
all in all, it sounds like a pretty ideal existence, but like all expats in  paris, amy faced a typical series of ups and downs.
‘cause i really love paris.”
but the magic of paris revived us and it was 11 p.m., admiring the fire dancers at le sacre coeur when my son said, “mom, can i get an ‘i love paris’ t-shirt?
let’s face it, it’s the riviera, the côte d’azur, the land of the rich and famous with the blue mediterranean sea, balmy weather, palm trees and italian flavor.
americans want and expect a higher standard of luxury and service than their european counterparts know how to provide.
continue reading » posted in travel | 3 comments » november 18, 2011 by marisa williams you’d think that as a travel photographer who’s endlessly enamored of paris, finding infinite inspiration for things to shoot in the city of light would be proverbial cake.
we haven’t even laid eyes on the chateau yet
as if i were a macaron virgin,  the dauntless teenager in front of me who had previously waited hours for a  ladurée hit, told me the sweets “were totally worth the  wait.”continue
plus it’s just about the only way you’re  going to score some private time with landmarks like la tour eiffel.
i begged them to let me write about our  incredible experience with hip.
definitely an invitation, not quite a proposal.
you  found an apartment, booked your flight, and learned how to ask forles  toilettes.
i was ready to start in on my advent calendar and temperatures  were plunging, but where were all those tell tale signs that our favorite  mid-winter festival was fast approaching?
continue  reading » posted in arts, travel | 7 comments » buying in nice:
of course parisians are well acquainted with ladurée, the  149-year-oldsalon de thé that purportedly invented the macaron.
newly engaged and living in the marais, we spend weekends scouring flea markets for second-hand furniture and sipping cheap red wine on our sixth-floor terrace.
the lines are shorter at our favorite museums and sights, and the restaurants put their best foot forward for the locals - steak frites never tasted so good!
fast forward six months.
traveling to nice from paris is fast and inexpensive, making weekend getaways about as easy as it gets — a perfect antidote to the cold, gray, rainy winters in paris.
ladurée’s new nyc store, and its line of fans (amy thomas)
instead of spending black friday* braving the crowds for lackluster deals, you can spend that day withhaven in paris.
for this wonderfully ambitious london itinerary.
this makes nice, and just about all  of the coast, an excellent real estate investment.
if you’d like to  do london in more than a day, and enjoy afternoon tea or cocktails in your very  own central london flat, let us help you plan your trip.
when i popped home to the uk in november, london was already in full festive swing with christmas trees, festive songs and neon lights galore.
ahem, this is the moment i need to make a disclaimer that haven in paris  isn’t compensating me in any way.
it’s at this point that the story really starts to ring true for those of us who have been expats in paris: you’re simultaneously charmed and alienated, comforted and challenged, energized and exhausted.
if your plan was to strike up conversation with the  local artists over espresso at your neighborhood bistrot, you might want to  think up a slightly more elaborate back-up plan.
but i’m already falling hard.
do you really need another reason to hop on the 8:13 eurostar and spend the day in london?
as on any trip, i set my alarm to rise and shine before the sun and the  city.
by the time we  see the room where lenny kravitz and vanessa paradis holed up for a month  scribbling lyrics, we’re more than ready to let love rule (and hand over  the hefty deposit).