therefore, i would claim that london is much stronger in historical significance than paris.
therefore, i would claim that london is  much stronger in historical significance than paris.
while london boasts  great theater and charming buildings amongst its history, paris is much easier  to visit and much more laid back.
which one would i go back to next weekend?
great week of working on the biz, now spending time w the fam.
historical influence: london or paris
not speaking english, nor tolerating it, truly  hurts paris’ impact on the business world.
insights intentional jeremie kubicek jesus joel manby lead leader leadercast leaders leaders are readers leadership is dead new year organization organizations overcome patrick lencioni peace pride relationships self preservation seth godin team teams teleseminar tim sanders video voices of leadership - brad respess:jeremie-y'all are changing the - lincoln parks:jeremie, you are so right abou - adil:excellent post, thanks.
both cities are amazing.
jeremie kubicek © 2011 all rights reserved.
when you think  of the histories of both cities it is easy to argue that each of them have  equal significance over the course of time.
i was just about to add t - matt kubicek:another perspective on this: g - craig d chamberlain:jeremie, i want to thank you s - rusty ricketson:i agree that organizational cu - dean deguara:mistrust trumps culture....
it will be interesting to see the role each plays over the next 25 years.
every trip is marked by what you experience, where you stay and who you are  with on your journey.
- i need your help - apprenticeship instead of mentorship - replay: voices of leadership with dr. henry cloud - becoming a published author - one word that leaders need to speak about more book books business ceo chick fil a creative leadership culture dr. henry cloud employees family giant impact gifts god henry cloud hope humble humility influence
so good to be back home w my family.
i recommend them both.
it is an amazing city for rest and relaxation.
it is an amazing  city for rest and relaxation.
every trip is marked by what you experience, where you stay and who you are with on your journey.
london is a prime city for global business.
share this post with others...
share this post with  others...
not speaking english, nor tolerating it, truly hurts paris’ impact on the business world.
adil - novelette thomas:
when you think of current influence you must also think of the governments of each country, england and france, as well as the leaders of each country.
thus, i would claim that it might be a wash between the two, with london being slightly ahead.
hands down  – paris.
thus, i would claim  that it might be a wash between the two, with london being slightly ahead.
and  thus, it was easy to fairly judge london and paris, respectively.
- jeremiekubicek: how can you best help those you lead, today?
however, london has been central command of one of the largest empires in the history of our world.
however, london has been central command of one of the largest  empires in the history of our world.
in our case, each of these elements were amazing.
best business city: london or paris london is by far  the better city for business.
by fearlessflyer - home - leadership is dead - speaking - about - giant impact - resources - contact - blog updates
each city has played a vital role in our world.
after a recent trip to two of the most historically influential cities,  london and paris, i thought it might be interesting to discuss the best of each.
if you are new here, pleasesubscribe to the rss feed and receive updates as they are posted.
powered by wp greet box wordpress plugin share after a recent trip to two of the most historically influential cities, london and paris, i thought it might be interesting to discuss the best of each.
related posts: about jeremie kubicek - historical perspective, presidential success: ronald reagan - god’s economy jeremie kubicek is the president & ceo of giant impact, co-founder of giant partners, and author of "leadership is dead: how influence is reviving it.
and thus, it was easy to fairly judge london and paris, respectively.
current influence: london or paris
" follow jeremie ontwitter, facebook, linkedin, and/or subscribe to this blogs rss feeds.
related posts: historical perspective, presidential success: ronald reagan god’s economy about jeremie kubicek jeremie  kubicek is the president & ceo of giant impact, co-founder of giant  partners, and author of "leadership is dead: how influence is reviving it.
when you think of  current influence you must also think of the governments of each country,  england and france, as well as the leaders of each country.
- tools & resources city perspective: london versus paris added apr 15, 2009, under: uncategorized hello there!
historical influence: london or paris when you think of the histories of both cities it is easy to argue that each of them have equal significance over the course of time.
- popular - recent comments - tags - what did you do on your way to work?
it will be interesting to  see the role each plays over the next 25 years.
while england  continues to have a global influence, the current president of france, sarkozy,  is embarking on a new strategy of influence for the french.
" follow jeremie ontwitter, facebook, linkedin, and/or subscribe to this  blogs rss feeds.
london is a prime city for  global business.
subscribe to blog via rss subscribe via rss here.
best city to visit: london or paris when you consider food, people, sights and ambience, paris wins hands down.
while england continues to have a global influence, the current president of france, sarkozy, is embarking on a new strategy of influence for the french.
- 10 books every leader should read - voices of leadership - leaders are readers - 3 books to help you expand your impact
while london wins most of the above topics, i would go back to paris for its charm, food (crepes and pastries), and sights.
get - jen:right on, jeremy!
each city has played a vital role  in our world.
i might men get blog updates via email twitter via @jeremiekubicek - jeremiekubicek:
best business city: london or paris london is by far the better city for business.
- jeremiekubicek: proud of #okstate w two first round nfl draft picks!
follow book website - welcome - leadership is dead - speaking - about - giant impact - resources - contact - blog updates - being alive - big ideas - creative leadership - increasing influence - misc.
best city to visit: london or paris when you consider  food, people, sights and ambience, paris wins hands down.
while london boasts great theater and charming buildings amongst its history, paris is much easier to visit and much more laid back.
while london wins most of the above topics, i would go back to  paris for its charm, food (crepes and pastries), and sights.