view all romantic paris attractions in paris
also enjoy a thrilling panoramic tour of the capital.
finally, you cannot visit paris without delving into its pulsating music scene.
uncover its enchanting, beguiling allure and be charmed by this unforgettable destination.
for the disorientated first-time visitor, feeling somewhat overwhelmed by the extensive range of sights on show, a hop on hop off tour is the superlative choice.
the pere lachaise cemetery is one of the most illustrious cemeteries on the globe.
sitemap | affiliates | privacy policy | terms and conditions | agents | travel blog | gift voucher | groups | golden tours web toolbar by wibiya
become enthralled by the incredible range  of extraordinary art this labyrinthine museum holds.
immerse yourself in the charm of iridescent sets and astonishing choreography.
thefree and easy day trip includes an open top bus tour, allowing you to become acquainted with the layout of elegant paris.
such a flamboyant, exquisite evening will  leave you with memories that last a lifetime.
it is, after all, home to  the largest collection of pre-twentieth century art on the globe.
a romantic paris tour is the ideal option for those who would like to uncover the most entrancing aspects of the capital, and even includes lunch on the eiffel tower, as well as entry to the majestic louvre, for an intensely bewitchinglondon to paris tour.
on a gems of paris tour, you will also be able to visit giverny, and delve into the home of the artistic prodigy claude monet.
here you can find the graves of a  diverse range of very famous people including edith piaf, jim morrison, and the  master of wit, oscar wilde.
the cultural and artistic treasures of paris are exquisite and merit in-depth exploration.
the moulin rouge, of course, possesses profoundly  tremendous repute.
an evening cabaret show is a particularly outstanding,  judicious choice for the visitor.
the ideal option for those who wish to explore paris unfettered by a  specific schedule or guide.
paris is truly one of the world capitals; it is deeply beguiling, an intensely  captivating city to explore.
view all discover paris at your leisure romantic paris some contend that paris is the most romantic city in the world.
the louvre is one of the most astounding museums in paris and is, unquestionably, one of the major attractions to explore.
providing breathtaking viewpoints over the most extraordinary landmarks in paris.
take a  paris overnight tour and reap the benefits of this very popular fully escorted  tour.
of course, the most extraordinary, well-known of all cabarets is none other than the inimitable moulin rouge.
of course, the  most extraordinary, well-known of all cabarets is none other than the  inimitable moulin rouge.
encompassing a tranquil one hour cruise on the river seine, entry to the one  and only louvre museum, and entry to the second floor of that consummate emblem  of paris - the eiffel tower - you will certainly be left spellbound.
leave with enduring memories of this grand, elegant capital.
the eiffel tower stands as the symbol of paris.
have lunch on the eiffel tower, included in some of our more comprehensive package london to paris tours.
the palais garnier is the one key venue  for music, with astounding acoustics, a lavish interior and a ceiling painted  by none other than marc chagall.
spend  your second day exploring paris entirely as you wish to.
aside from this, paris teems with architectural marvels, including the celebrated notre dame cathedral and grandiose arc de triomphe.
paris – home of cabaret when dusk falls, paris becomes imbued with enchanting splendour.
although there are a whole host of captivating museums in the capital, a visit to the louvre should be first on any visitor’s list.
become bewitched by the extraordinary moulin  rouge.
it is, after all, home to the largest collection of pre-twentieth century art on the globe.
become inveigled by captivating panoramic views over the most entrancing  landmarks of the capital.
finally, you cannot visit paris without  delving into its pulsating music scene.
providing breathtaking viewpoints over the most extraordinary landmarks in  paris.
or perhaps choose a le lido show, and your senses will be equally besieged.
uncover its  enchanting, beguiling allure and be charmed by this unforgettable destination.
become enthralled by the incredible range of extraordinary art this labyrinthine museum holds.
the cite des  sciences et de l'industrie is also a fascinating museum with a decidedly  different ambience – it is dedicated to the practices of science and  technology.
the oldest church in paris, it has, since 1819, been home to the  remains of none other than the philosophical genius descartes.
the ideal option for those who wish to explore paris unfettered by a specific schedule or guide.
the cite des sciences et de l'industrie is also a fascinating museum with a decidedly different ambience – it is dedicated to the practices of science and technology.
paris deals take advantage of some of our extraordinary london to paris tour deals,  offering you exceptional savings and freeing you to explore this illustrious  capital in accordance with your own wishes.
just why it is that paris possesses such a hold on people all over the world.
take a cruise on the charming waters of the river seine.
also included in this tour is a free river cruise,
arguably, there is no finer way to  spend the evening than at one of its many exquisite cabarets.
fully escorted day trip, simply paris
a visit to st  germain des pres church is certainly worthwhile: it is an indisputably striking  church.
this tour leaves you to explore paris as you wish afterwards.
a visit to st germain des pres church is certainly worthwhile: it is an indisputably striking church.
become enamoured by the tale of a girl searching for happiness, as four grand, majestic sets open up before you.
have lunch  on the eiffel tower, included in some of our more comprehensive package london  to paris tours.
here you can find the graves of a diverse range of very famous people including edith piaf, jim morrison, and the master of wit, oscar wilde.
discover the most entrancing aspects of paris on your own with a free map provided for you.
the palais garnier is the one key venue for music, with astounding acoustics, a lavish interior and a ceiling painted by none other than marc chagall.
the moulin rouge, of course, possesses profoundly tremendous repute.
such a flamboyant, exquisite evening will leave you with memories that last a lifetime.
this tour leaves you to explore paris as you wish  afterwards.
become enamoured by the  tale of a girl searching for happiness, as four grand, majestic sets open up  before you.
overnight discover paris
eurostar are extensive and we offer some great value options, so that you may  uncover the allure of paris on your own terms.
or perhaps choose a le  lido show, and your senses will be equally besieged.
marvel at the striking landmarks of the capital on both a cruise and bus  tour, and delve into the artistic treasures on display at the louvre.
decide for yourself when you take this spectacular tour of the capital, comprising of entry to the renowned louvre, a sumptuous meal on the eiffel tower, a sweeping bus tour, and free time to explore paris at your leisure.
the neo-byzantine alexander nevsky cathedral also merits exploration.
the choice is entirely yours: simply ensure you make the most of  tantalising paris.
the architectural charms of  the capital are, it goes without saying, distinctively parisian and, in many  cases, spectacular.
or, instead, you may wish to explore the musee  d’orsay, which holds an extensive collection of impressionist, as well as  post-impressionist art, ranging from degas to monet.
paris is truly one of the world capitals; it is deeply beguiling, an intensely captivating city to explore.
or, instead, you may wish to explore the musee d’orsay, which holds an extensive collection of impressionist, as well as post-impressionist art, ranging from degas to monet.
amsterdam dublin prague edinburgh florence the world london to paris - eurostar trips it is not difficult to divine just why it is that paris possesses such a hold on people all over the world.
aside from this, paris teems with architectural marvels,  including the celebrated notre dame cathedral and grandiose arc de triomphe.
sitemap |  affiliates |  privacy policy | terms and conditions | agents | travel blog | gift voucher |  groups | golden tours web toolbar by wibiya
leave with enduring memories of this  grand, elegant capital.
spend your second day exploring paris entirely as you wish to.
arguably, there is no finer way to spend the evening than at one of its many exquisite cabarets.
london paris rome las vegas new york amsterdam dublin prague edinburgh  florence the world london to paris - eurostar trips it is not difficult to divine
also enjoy  a thrilling panoramic tour of the capital.
become inveigled by captivating panoramic views over the most entrancing landmarks of the capital.
on a gems of paris tour, you will also  be able to visit giverny, and delve into the home of the artistic prodigy  claude monet.
the pere lachaise cemetery is one of the  most illustrious cemeteries on the globe.
the pompidou centre is an exceptional museum to visit if your interests lie firmly with contemporary art, and comprises of works by such masters as matisse and modigliani.
take a paris overnight tour and reap the benefits of this very popular fully escorted tour.
things to do in paris view all things to do in paris try to  steer clear of the obvious when you visit paris: explore some of its more  singular and distinctive attractions and landmarks.
golden tours’ london to paris tours via
discover the most entrancing aspects of paris on  your own with a free map provided for you.
the architectural charms of the capital are, it goes without saying, distinctively parisian and, in many cases, spectacular.
try a panoramic hop on hop off tour of paris and become amply acquainted with the capital’s most remarkable attractions on your london to paris tour.
for  the disorientated first-time visitor, feeling somewhat overwhelmed by the  extensive range of sights on show, a hop on hop off tour is the superlative  choice.
marvel at the striking landmarks of the capital on both a cruise and bus tour, and delve into the artistic treasures on display at the louvre.
marvel at the extravagant display of 1000 striking costumes consisting  of feathers, rhinestones and sequins at the spellbinding  “féerie” show.
as you savour some palatable champagne, have your breath taken away by the overpowering colours and sounds of the “féerie”.
or, instead, explore sophisticated versailles on a splendour of  paris tour.
marvel at the extravagant display of 1000 striking costumes consisting of feathers, rhinestones and sequins at the spellbinding “féerie” show.
paris deals take advantage of some of our extraordinary london to paris tour deals, offering you exceptional savings and freeing you to explore this illustrious capital in accordance with your own wishes.
view paris overnight discover paris
this extensive london to paris tour will not fail to charm you.
encompassing a tranquil one hour cruise on the river seine, entry to the one and only louvre museum, and entry to the second floor of that consummate emblem of paris - the eiffel tower - you will certainly be left spellbound.
the pompidou centre is an exceptional museum to visit if your interests  lie firmly with contemporary art, and comprises of works by such masters as  matisse and modigliani.
become bewitched by the extraordinary moulin rouge.
the cultural and artistic treasures of  paris are exquisite and merit in-depth exploration.
immerse yourself in the charm of iridescent  sets and astonishing choreography.
the  neo-byzantine alexander nevsky cathedral also merits exploration.
the choice is entirely yours: simply ensure you make the most of tantalising paris.
paris – home of cabaret when dusk falls, paris  becomes imbued with enchanting splendour.
try  a panoramic hop on hop off tour of paris and become amply acquainted with the  capital’s most remarkable attractions on your london to paris tour.
overnight is one day truly enough to savour the exquisite beauty of paris?
view all fully escorted day  trip, simply paris paris
a romantic paris tour is the ideal option for those who would like  to uncover the most entrancing aspects of the capital, and even includes lunch  on the eiffel tower, as well as entry to the majestic louvre, for an intensely  bewitchinglondon to paris tour.
thefree and easy day trip  includes an open top bus tour, allowing you to become acquainted with the  layout of elegant paris.
alternatively, why not visit both paris and an enchanting region nearby?
alternatively, why not visit both  paris and an enchanting region nearby?
view all fully escorted day trip, simply paris paris
the louvre is one of the most astounding museums in paris and is,  unquestionably, one of the major attractions to explore.
decide for  yourself when you take this spectacular tour of the capital, comprising of  entry to the renowned louvre, a sumptuous meal on the eiffel tower, a sweeping  bus tour, and free time to explore paris at your leisure.
home about affiliates faqs agents reviews groups contact us 0 item(s)| $ 0.00 customer login $ £ $ € ¥ a$ hk$ c$ n$ r s$ - sightseeing tours - open top bus tours - walking tours - low cost tours - eurostar trips - city breaks - attraction tickets - transfers - day trips by rail - thames cruises - theatre tickets - special offers - london paris rome las vegas new york
or, instead, explore sophisticated versailles on a splendour of paris tour.
the oldest church in paris, it has, since 1819, been home to the remains of none other than the philosophical genius descartes.
although there are a  whole host of captivating museums in the capital, a visit to the louvre should  be first on any visitor’s list.
as you savour some palatable champagne, have  your breath taken away by the overpowering colours and sounds of the  “féerie”.
golden tours’ london to paris tours via eurostar are extensive and we offer some great value options, so that you may uncover the allure of paris on your own terms.
an evening cabaret show is a particularly outstanding, judicious choice for the visitor.
things to do in paris view all things to do in paris try to steer clear of the obvious when you visit paris: explore some of its more singular and distinctive attractions and landmarks.