committee head jean-pierre blat said: “the survey reflects reality.
it placed london first ahead of the five other european cities of paris, rome, amsterdam, and berlin.
this was followed by paris and amsterdam in joint second place on 79%.
timeshare resort vs. hotel many travelers are unaware that renting timeshare units are far superior to hotel rooms in comfort and price, especially for families and large groups.
in the  survey london scored 82% for its welcome to visitors from abroad.
head on over to redweek.com, and grab a timeshare widget» recommended sites - timeshare information - the timeshare ambassador - visit our website at redweek.com
the report, titled  “twenty four hours in a tourist capital," was authorized by the  paris-ile de france regional tourism committee (crt).
most timeshare resorts, however, feature multiple bedrooms and bathrooms, living room, kitchen, dining area, and many have resort activities and amenities not found at hotels.
learn more about timeshare travel» redweek widget timeshares want an "i love redweek" widget for your website or blog?
i agree french are arrogant...
timeshare rentals, resales, and exchanges monday, november 22, 2010 survey says london is better than paris do you believe that london  is better than paris?
the btn article also announced a new way to have access to travel information  about london, with the launch of a new mobile site: london.mobi.
replydelete i love london, and everything with it.
- timeshare travel #traveltuesday – oahu - staying fit with a timeshare winter vacation - ▼ 2010 (256) - ▼ november (20) - carlsbad inn beach resort and timeshare celebrates... - how marriott phuket resorts aid sea turtle conserv... - tour movie locations from your kauai timeshare - hidden airline fees cost the equivalent of 12 mill... - survey says london is better than paris - top ten most popular cities for holiday travel - an interview with randy conrads – part 2 - an interview with randy conrads – part 1 - controversy surrounds full body scans at the airpo... - movie magic in hawaii - new redweek member benefit announced - vacation ownership industry sends 1,000 veterans o... - redweek members love marriott's phuket beach club - ftc putting stop to timeshare resell scams
it placed london first  ahead of the five other european cities of paris, rome, amsterdam, and berlin.
mr blat said: “in paris, besides french we speak english, italian, and spanish, while in london they only speak english.”
hotels scored  74% compared with 89% for those in london.
- what kind of timeshare traveler are you?
with redweek exchange, our award-winning, full-service exchange program, you find your exchange before you deposit (no hidden weeks).
the white house easter egg roll!
a typical hotel gets you one room with a bed and a bathroom.
the main fault found in london was the lack of foreign  languages.
world mobi guides include user reviews and traveler utilities such as a translation guide, currency converter, news and local weather guide.
spain - for a special spring break trip - the most incredi... - ► march (22) - the perfect spring break trip – visit harry potter... - looking for a different timeshare vacation for you... - spring break timeshare vacation idea – the family-... - timeshare travel #traveltuesday – connecticut - become an informed timeshare consumer - 3 top timeshare vacation destinations for spring b... - great spring break travel off the beaten path – la... - arda: owners from bluegreen vacations featured as... - timeshare travel #traveltuesday – virginia - 2012 list of 25 top timeshare rental resorts voted... - shamrockfest – a wild and crazy st. patrick’s day ...
newer post older post home subscribe to: post comments (atom) about redweek.com
committee head jean-pierre  blat said: “the survey reflects reality.
- marriott takes 10 spots in redweek’s top 25 timesh... - timeshare travel #traveltuesday – green river - timeshare rental spotlight: harborside resort at a... -
hotels scored 74% compared with 89% for those in london.
he also suggested the french were often the most critical of their own capital, which may explain the result.
- fresh food from the kitchen garden at marriott - an interview with dial an exchange ceo francis tay... - disney voluntears give back - 5 reasons not to buy a timeshare - smuggler’s notch for premier skiing in vermont subscribe to… posts atom posts comments atom comments rent by the night at wyndham palm-aire pompano beach, fl enjoy the flexibility and availability of staying in a hotel, with the luxury, amenities and value of a timeshare resort...
madrid and rome were tied at third, both with 76%, while berlin was last with 74%.
mr blat said: “in paris, besides french we speak english,  italian, and spanish, while in london they only speak english.”
the btn article also announced a new way to have access to travel information about london, with the launch of a new mobile site: london.mobi.
- for a spring break destination or summer vacation ... - 3 top u.s. spring break trips - timeshare travel #traveltuesday – colorado - new attractions at disney’s california adventure p... - spring break and 8 top ipad travel apps - timeshare vacation – walt disney world or universa... - timeshare spotlight: silver anniversary for desert...
tell us what week you own and we'll tell you how many redweek exchange points it is worth, with afree exchange valuation.
along - take a timeshare vacation to las vegas and enjoy t... - timeshare vacation - walt disney world or universa... - ► february (20) - celebrate leap day by leaping with disney!
am whoooohooohooooo!!!!!!
(photo credit – sdkbphotography.com on flickr)  posted by jw  at 1:51  pm email this blogthis!
following in the wake of london garnering the prestigious  "world's best destination" award at the 17th annual world travel  awards gala held november 7, 2010, comes that official finding from a survey  commissioned by the french themselves.
paris knows how to welcome  visitors but there are definite improvements to make.”
check availability» what's your timeshare's exchange value?
the site is the latest in the line up of city guides from world mobi, with over 800 cities in 200 countries listed, including brussels.
the redweek.com blog timeshare rentals, resales, and exchanges monday, november 22, 2010 survey says london is better than paris do you believe that london is better than paris?
travelers find luxury accommodations for pricing less than typical hotel rooms.
other key features include information on accommodation, restaurants, attractions, entertainment, nightlife, shopping, and transport.
- take a timeshare vacation where the food is fine!
the report, titled “twenty four hours in a tourist capital," was authorized by the paris-ile de france regional tourism committee (crt).
» - follow redweek on twitter » - be a fan of redweek on facebook » - subscribe to the redweek blog » copyright © redweek.com
in the survey london scored 82% for its welcome to visitors from abroad.
share to twitter share to facebook labels: london  timeshare, paris timeshare, travel news
and budget-fri... - timeshare vacation idea: spend spring break explor...
the site is  the latest in the line up of city guides from world mobi, with over 800 cities  in 200 countries listed, including brussels.
following in the wake of london garnering the prestigious "world's best destination" award at the 17th annual world travel awards gala held november 7, 2010, comes that official finding from a survey commissioned by the french themselves.
in the french report, london is accepted as the more impressive city  in every aspect, from its restaurants and taxis to its landmarks such as  westminster abbey, the houses of parliament, and the famous tower of london.
in the french report, london is accepted as the more impressive city in every aspect, from its restaurants and taxis to its landmarks such as westminster abbey, the houses of parliament, and the famous tower of london.
as chronicled by breakingtravelnews.com on november 19, french officials have conceded that london offers a better tourism experience than paris.
madrid and rome  were tied at third, both with 76%, while berlin was last with 74%.
as chronicled by  breakingtravelnews.com on november 19, french officials have conceded that  london offers a better tourism experience than paris.
owners sell, rent, or exchange their timeshares.
you pay one low fee for both domestic and international exchanges, and trade up or down as you like.
- the perfect surf destination for spring break - fu... - for a great spring break timeshare vacation – mard... - timeshare travel #traveltuesday –
- timeshare travel #traveltuesday – british columbia... - ► april (21) - a may timeshare vacation idea - mallorca’s medieva...
he also suggested  the french were often the most critical of their own capital, which may explain  the result.
other key features include information on accommodation,  restaurants, attractions, entertainment, nightlife, shopping, and transport.
the findings come despite parisians boasting that nowhere beats their restaurants and tourist attractions, such as the eiffel tower.
find a timeshare by location by resort name links for owners & travelers - timeshare rentals - timeshare resales - timeshare exchange - buy & sell timeshare points subscribe via email enter your email address: delivered by feedburner followers blog archive - ► 2012 (89) - ► may (4) - timeshare vacation – 3 top cities for cinco de may... - london olympics go green - timeshare crusader's manifesto: all timeshare owne...
share to twitter share to facebook labels: london timeshare, paris timeshare, travel news 1 comments: add comment - britain smitten dec 29, 2010 11:11
the largest online marketplace for timeshares.
world mobi guides include user reviews and traveler  utilities such as a translation guide, currency converter, news and local  weather guide.
(photo credit – sdkbphotography.com on flickr) posted by jw at 1:51 pm email this blogthis!
- have you ever considered using a limousine on your... - enjoy enchanting april and may with a spring times... - timeshare travel #traveltuesday – newport - enjoy enchanting april and may with a spring times... - celebrate earth day with a timeshare vacation to d... - 5 quick and easy spanish learning tips
undercover french investigators concluded that public transport inparis was poor, with tickets difficult to buy and the metro old and dirty.
you can do ... - what’s the best way to support timeshare education... - timeshare travel #traveltuesday – waikiki - timeshare travel – 5 luxury places to spend your t... - welcome to the ultimate blog party!
- timeshare travel #traveltuesday – san diego - london olympics 2012 -
undercover french investigators concluded that public transport inparis was  poor, with tickets difficult to buy and the metro old and dirty.
the findings come despite parisians boasting that nowhere beats their  restaurants and tourist attractions, such as the eiffel tower.
paris knows how to welcome visitors but there are definite improvements to make.”
the main fault found in london was the lack of foreign languages.
this was  followed by paris and amsterdam in joint second place on 79%.