each city has played a vital role in our world.
london is a prime city for global business.
best city to visit: london or paris when you consider food, people, sights and ambience, paris wins hands down.
every trip is marked by what you experience, where you stay and who you are  with on your journey.
i recommend them both.
get - jen:right on, jeremy!
therefore, i would claim that london is  much stronger in historical significance than paris.
current influence: london or paris
when you think  of the histories of both cities it is easy to argue that each of them have  equal significance over the course of time.
london is a prime city for  global business.
historical influence: london or paris when you think of the histories of both cities it is easy to argue that each of them have equal significance over the course of time.
- i need your help - apprenticeship instead of mentorship - replay: voices of leadership with dr. henry cloud - becoming a published author - one word that leaders need to speak about more book books business ceo chick fil a creative leadership culture dr. henry cloud employees family giant impact gifts god henry cloud hope humble humility influence
while england  continues to have a global influence, the current president of france, sarkozy,  is embarking on a new strategy of influence for the french.
when you think of current influence you must also think of the governments of each country, england and france, as well as the leaders of each country.
follow book website - welcome - leadership is dead - speaking - about - giant impact - resources - contact - blog updates - being alive - big ideas - creative leadership - increasing influence - misc.
however, london has been central command of one of the largest  empires in the history of our world.
it will be interesting to see the role each plays over the next 25 years.
- jeremiekubicek: how can you best help those you lead, today?
insights intentional jeremie kubicek jesus joel manby lead leader leadercast leaders leaders are readers leadership is dead new year organization organizations overcome patrick lencioni peace pride relationships self preservation seth godin team teams teleseminar tim sanders video voices of leadership - brad respess:jeremie-y'all are changing the - lincoln parks:jeremie, you are so right abou - adil:excellent post, thanks.
while england continues to have a global influence, the current president of france, sarkozy, is embarking on a new strategy of influence for the french.
thus, i would claim  that it might be a wash between the two, with london being slightly ahead.
after a recent trip to two of the most historically influential cities,  london and paris, i thought it might be interesting to discuss the best of each.
powered by wp greet box wordpress plugin share after a recent trip to two of the most historically influential cities, london and paris, i thought it might be interesting to discuss the best of each.
share this post with  others...
each city has played a vital role  in our world.
therefore, i would claim that london is much stronger in historical significance than paris.
while london boasts  great theater and charming buildings amongst its history, paris is much easier  to visit and much more laid back.
in our case, each of these elements were amazing.
every trip is marked by what you experience, where you stay and who you are with on your journey.
- jeremiekubicek: proud of #okstate w two first round nfl draft picks!
which one would i go back to next weekend?
subscribe to blog via rss subscribe via rss here.
historical influence: london or paris
i was just about to add t - matt kubicek:another perspective on this: g - craig d chamberlain:jeremie, i want to thank you s - rusty ricketson:i agree that organizational cu - dean deguara:mistrust trumps culture....
thus, i would claim that it might be a wash between the two, with london being slightly ahead.
adil - novelette thomas:
not speaking english, nor tolerating it, truly  hurts paris’ impact on the business world.
" follow jeremie ontwitter, facebook, linkedin, and/or subscribe to this  blogs rss feeds.
and thus, it was easy to fairly judge london and paris, respectively.
i might men get blog updates via email twitter via @jeremiekubicek - jeremiekubicek:
related posts: historical perspective, presidential success: ronald reagan god’s economy about jeremie kubicek jeremie  kubicek is the president & ceo of giant impact, co-founder of giant  partners, and author of "leadership is dead: how influence is reviving it.
best business city: london or paris london is by far the better city for business.
so good to be back home w my family.
while london boasts great theater and charming buildings amongst its history, paris is much easier to visit and much more laid back.
while london wins most of the above topics, i would go back to  paris for its charm, food (crepes and pastries), and sights.
" follow jeremie ontwitter, facebook, linkedin, and/or subscribe to this blogs rss feeds.
it is an amazing  city for rest and relaxation.
when you think of  current influence you must also think of the governments of each country,  england and france, as well as the leaders of each country.
while london wins most of the above topics, i would go back to paris for its charm, food (crepes and pastries), and sights.
- 10 books every leader should read - voices of leadership - leaders are readers - 3 books to help you expand your impact
great week of working on the biz, now spending time w the fam.
if you are new here, pleasesubscribe to the rss feed and receive updates as they are posted.
it is an amazing city for rest and relaxation.
jeremie kubicek © 2011 all rights reserved.
share this post with others...
best city to visit: london or paris when you consider  food, people, sights and ambience, paris wins hands down.
and  thus, it was easy to fairly judge london and paris, respectively.
related posts: about jeremie kubicek - historical perspective, presidential success: ronald reagan - god’s economy jeremie kubicek is the president & ceo of giant impact, co-founder of giant partners, and author of "leadership is dead: how influence is reviving it.
best business city: london or paris london is by far  the better city for business.
hands down  – paris.
both cities are amazing.
not speaking english, nor tolerating it, truly hurts paris’ impact on the business world.
however, london has been central command of one of the largest empires in the history of our world.
by fearlessflyer - home - leadership is dead - speaking - about - giant impact - resources - contact - blog updates
it will be interesting to  see the role each plays over the next 25 years.
- tools & resources city perspective: london versus paris added apr 15, 2009, under: uncategorized hello there!
- popular - recent comments - tags - what did you do on your way to work?