friday and saturday nights?
i asked, panic rapidly setting in.
a gently pointed toe is the only shoe shape that looksright right now.
definition noun: soirée: party or gathering, with a sophisticated name to impress the uninitiated, taking place in apartments across the glimmering city of lights (usually accompanied bybeaucoup de alcohol, yummy food and much merriment).
le foulard: there may be no look more “french” than an  artfully tied scarf.
while stylish parisiennes abound  in paris, the people-watching on the cobblestoned streets of montmartre is one  of our favorite ways to while away a lazy afternoon on a heated café  terrace.
i decided an in-person visit would be best because i was sure there were some things that weren’t translating on the web page.
as i dug into the apartment search further and started to learn the meter  to square feet conversion, a rosé hangover started to kick in.
and then there  would be the lavish, multi-course creations that would appear out of my kitchen  and people would say, are you sure she’s not french-trained or a  descendant of julia child?
a move to london, our other favorite european city, just as full of great shopping, architecture, art, history, and (almost as much) great food.
from the classic burberry check to sumptuous cashmere or printed cotton, a casually wrapped neck is simply a must.
steak à cheval (l. richarz)
continue reading » posted in homes | 9 comments » january 5, 2012 by victoria wall to do une soirée or not to do une soirée ?
crying, screaming and crawling under  the table are not tolerated and will prompt vocal disapproval and the  not-so-subtle “oh la la.”
and then there would be the lavish, multi-course creations that would appear out of my kitchen and people would say, are you sure she’s not french-trained or a descendant of julia child?
francophiles need not fret, though — we’ll still cover paris’ best hidden secrets, but with a little british flair thrown into the mix.
under no circumstances should  you arrive on time – keep it carefree by arriving fashionably late.
continue reading » posted in food, parisian living | 7 comments » december 23, 2011 by genevieve sandifer as this wonderful year draws to a close, we can’t help but be grateful for all the amazing things we experienced in 2011: all of this, thanks to you dear readers!
it was going to be all  storybook romance and parisian perfection, right?
men are rarely seen in paris without stylish neck wear — rain or shine.
one night,  we sat down to dinner and i was presented with a traditional dish called bife a cavalo (in portuguese), which translates to “horse-riding  steak” or “steak à la horse.”
don’t eat at hippopotamus.
posted in homes | 1 comment » january 16, 2012 by paige bradley frost paris is known for many things: its light, its bistros and, of course, its fashionably chic women.
haven in paris is offering up to 25% off in most of our paris and london apartments, so making the jaunt over doesn’t have to break the bank.
finding an apartment
or  just use the money you saved shopping the sales – after all, they run  until february 14!
i  decided an in-person visit would be best because i was sure there were some  things that weren’t translating on the web page.
looking for a fabulous vacation  rental in paris,  london, provence, or tuscany?
i was picturing my new, highbrow, literary  friends meeting in my salon and debating whether anna karenina was due  society’s scorn or the victim of a double standard.
francophiles need not fret, though — we’ll still cover paris’  best hidden secrets, but with a little british flair thrown into the mix.
i suppose it’s time to accept that france will always have the upper hand, but it still stings.
haven in paris is offering up to 25% off in most of our paris and london  apartments, so making the jaunt over doesn’t have to break the bank.
worn with a tailored blazer or fine-knit  sweater (think body-hugging),un jean works just as well for a  stroll through the centre pompidou as it does for a dinner at a swank bistro.
for mid-week lunches, go  earlier or later than the business crowd and you’ll likely be met with a  smile.
french parents are strict  and never more so than around the table.
french parents are strict and never more so than around the table.
le foulard: there may be no look more “french” than an artfully tied scarf.
i was picturing my new, highbrow, literary friends meeting in my salon and debating whether anna karenina was due society’s scorn or the victim of a double standard.
so when i first moved to paris and started noticing “steak à cheval” on menus around town, i was wary.
“no, it’s like steak à cheval in france,” g explained.
i felt like a parisian kid in aconfiserie as i set out to look through all the online listings.
bustling brasseries andservice continu restos will suit you better than dinner at 9:00 at the cozy corner bistro.
as much as we love french hospitality, local parisians and expats aren’t always hanging out in cafés looking for tourists to befriend.
recently, i was visiting my boyfriend’s family in brazil.
and while i was waiting for my parents to break down and buy me a real horse (never happened), i would drag garbage cans into the backyard and ride them, periodically switching from one member of the “herd” to the next.
here are a few ideas:continue  reading » posted in parisian living, travel | 13 comments » haven in paris goes to london!
we made a beeline for hippopotamus, the kid-friendly chain with outposts all over the city.
les pantalons: athletes with ample quads, beware: modern parisian trousers aretrès slim cut.
mollie c.; chris waits
kid-friendly dining in paris december 27, 2011  by paige bradley frost mark and allegra karoski-biava fresh off the plane and bleary-eyed with two kids in tow, we set out for  our first family meal in paris.
on any given afternoon, people in the house could gaze out and see me whipping a particularly stubborn garbage can with my riding crop.
step 3:  chit chat eek!
here are a few ideas:continue reading » posted in parisian living, travel | 13 comments » january 26, 2012 by genevieve sandifer pssst… don’t tell anyone, but we’re making a move.
ready for a fancy french meal (juliet)
on behalf of the hip paris team and our gloriously talented contributors, we wish you warm and happy holidays, and a fantastic new year full of love and success.
and, how should it be approached by mere anglophone mortals?
posted in parisian living | 4 comments »« older entries french restaurant etiquette: dining in france like a local five reasons to love le bon marché
how was i supposed to entertain the french literati in a space the size of a parking spot?
posted in parisian living | 4 comments » december 27, 2011 by paige bradley frost mark and allegra karoski-biava fresh off the plane and bleary-eyed with two kids in tow, we set out for our first family meal in paris.
i knew there was  a historical precedent of eating horse meat in france, but it seemed quite  inhumane in this day and age.
looking for a fabulous vacation rental in paris, london, provence, or tuscany?
it was at this point that i realized i’d been operating under a serious misapprehension, and it took the collision of three cultures for the truth to surface.
paris’ best bike shops coffee in paris?
not where but when: successful family dining is about knowing when to go.
in short, his cool charm derives from an unstudied, imperfect look that works without looking overworked.
i  felt like a parisian kid in aconfiserie as i set out to look through  all the online listings.
men are rarely seen in paris without stylish neck wear  — rain or shine.
nothing a quick trip to paris can’t fix!
i recommend arriving bearing wine.
, maybe your idea of paris includes escaping the tourist traps and discovering truly local haunts – great live music at an otherwise unassuming dive bar, or a fantastic meal at your neighborhood restaurant.
posted in parisian living | 4 comments » les enfants terribles?
for weekendsen ville, swap out the dress shoes for a well-worn pair of tennis — puma or adidas, please.
as a child, i would sometimes dress in riding garb for no reason at all.
is there something you would like to see more of in 2012?
michel nguyen; yuwen
under no circumstances should you arrive on time – keep it carefree by arriving fashionably late.
posted in homes, london | 4 comments » january 24, 2012 by tory hoen years into my love affair with paris, i’m still making ridiculous rookie mistakes.
posted in parisian living | 4 comments » december 29, 2011 by badaude winter in paris is the perfect opportunity to indulge in creative layering, colorful tights and stylish boots.
drop us a line to let us know!
check  out haven in paris.
and while i was waiting for my parents to break down and  buy me a real horse (never happened), i would drag garbage cans into the  backyard and ride them, periodically switching from one member of the  “herd” to the next.
check out haven in paris.
continue reading » posted in food, parisian living | 7 comments » happy holidays from hip paris december 23, 2011  by genevieve sandifer as this wonderful year draws to a close, we can’t help but be  grateful for all the amazing things we experienced in 2011: we finally got the 10 never-ending trends of paris fashion  straight - phew, no more fashion no-nos for us!
without dwelling on the gastronomic disappointment (and pricey menu) of that  evening, we learned some early lessons about eating out with kids in paris.
how  was i supposed to entertain the french literati in a space the size of a  parking spot?
au merveilleux de fred: a meringue bakery in paris eight paris essentials and why you need them how to be a parisienne: 10 golden rules what to wear in france in the winter: tips from julie blakley ...
we made a beeline  for hippopotamus, the kid-friendly chain with outposts all over the city.
adjust your restaurant choices accordingly to avoid a miserable meal for all.
continue reading » posted in food, parisian living | 11 comments » february in paris: 25% off your very own parisian flat january 19, 2012  by genevieve sandifer dave bloom; rafael garcia-suarez; maggie battista winter blues got you down?
many wonderful restaurants will welcome kids if you go at  off-peak times.
as a child, i would sometimes dress in riding garb  for no reason at all.
without dwelling on the gastronomic disappointment (and pricey menu) of that evening, we learned some early lessons about eating out with kids in paris.
nonetheless,  i assumed it was some kind of  trendy gastronomic revival, and who was i to question the local gourmands?
watch out for complex digicode systems designed to keep guests out and lift-less 6th floor apartments in distant parisian destinations.
if your plan was to strike up conversation with the  local artists over espresso at your neighborhood bistrot, you might want to  think up a slightly more elaborate back-up plan.
au merveilleux de fred: a meringue bakery in paris eight paris essentials and why you need them how to be a parisienne: 10 golden rules what to wear in france in the winter: tips from julie blakley paris inspirations
surely in this city of more than 8,000 restaurants, finding a suitable spot would be simple enough,non?
fashion guru and dear hip paris contributor badaude shares here some of her favorite cold-weather items, courtesy of the lovely montmartro-girls, here.
fashion guru and dear hip paris contributor badaude shares here some  of her favorite cold-weather items, courtesy of the lovely montmartro-girls,  here.
on any given afternoon, people in the house  could gaze out and see me whipping a particularly stubborn garbage can with my  riding crop.
nonetheless, i assumed it was some kind of trendy gastronomic revival, and who was i to question the local gourmands?
here are some hallmarks of parisian style pour homme, as seen on the city’s streets this chilly season.
you imagine strolling through the city, taking in the sights, hanging out at cafés, and being…parisian.
i’ve tried to break down the process into nice easy steps and here’s what i came up with… step 1: getting there there are several key points to bear in mind.
matchy-matchy, perfectly pressed and impeccably coordinated is just un-parisian.
in short, his cool charm derives from an  unstudied, imperfect look that works without looking overworked.
a move to london, our other favorite european city, just as full of great  shopping, architecture, art, history, and (almost as much) great food.
you imagine strolling through the city, taking in the sights, hanging out  at cafés, and being…parisian.
sundaydéjeuner is a big one for family meals in  paris.
bustling brasseries andservice continu restos will suit you  better than dinner at 9:00 at the cozy corner bistro.
we’re also still offering some fantastic last-minute discounts on  february 2012 dates (for paris and london), socontact us now and get up to 30%  off your winter holiday!
continue  reading » posted in design, parisian living, shopping | 7 comments » a leap of faith: finding the perfect paris apartment january 10, 2012  by kelly page chris waits; david l. after having made the huge, scary, glorious decision to quit my plum  entertainment job of 14 years to move to paris, all i could picture was  drinking rosé in fabulous cafes in st. germain and strolling with my  soon-to-be-named french lover along the seine.
here are some tips and sure-fire hits when you venture out  to eaten famille.
winter is winter in paris too, but when you can while away the days eating delicious pastries and drinkingcafé crème or mulled wine in a cozy café, it’s easy to become fond of the rainy days too.
men’s shoes have gone narrow and pointy;  classics like leather oxfords and sporty suede bucks have seemingly been  stretched.
continue reading » posted in food, parisian living | 11 comments » january 19, 2012 by genevieve sandifer winter blues got you down?
from the classic burberry check to sumptuous cashmere or  printed cotton, a casually wrapped neck is simply a must.
looking for a fabulous vacation rental in paris, provence, or tuscany?
please note that i was a horse-obsessed child, so equine-related topics are particularly touchy for me.
it was going to be all storybook romance and parisian perfection, right?
in the months since, we’ve tried many restaurants with our children (ages four and six).
january 26, 2012  by genevieve sandifer david jones pssst… don’t tell anyone, but we’re making a move.
alas, in a word, non. parisian men do, however, have distinctive style that manages to marry the rakish allure of vincent cassel or olivier martinez with the more bourgeois appeal of, say, francois cluzet.
with its private garden, two bedrooms and plenty of space to lounge and cook, it’s the perfect home base for exploring all that london has to offer.
looking for a fabulous vacation rental in paris, provence, or  tuscany?
step 2: la bise remember the essentials: i recommend arriving bearing wine.
would my culinary creations have to come from a hot plate in my betty crocker play kitchen?
now that the introductions are out of the way, it’s time to  mingle!continue reading » posted in parisian living | 4 comments » paris winter fashion: the girls of montmartre december 29, 2011  by badaude winter in paris is the perfect opportunity to indulge in creative  layering, colorful tights and stylish boots.
check out all of our february special offers here, or contact us now to let us do the work for you.
don’t worry about breaking the bank – surprisingly, even inexpensive supermarket plonk is still very drinkable.
i’ve tried to break down the process into  nice easy steps and here’s what i came up with… step 1: getting there there are several key points to bear in mind.
but what about its men?
or at least, i thought it was.
as i dug into the apartment search further and started to learn the meter to square feet conversion, a rosé hangover started to kick in.
definition noun: soirée: party or gathering, with a  sophisticated name to impress  the uninitiated, taking place in apartments  across the glimmering city of lights (usually accompanied bybeaucoup de alcohol,  yummy food and much merriment).
as much as we love french hospitality, local  parisians and expats aren’t always hanging out in cafés looking  for tourists to befriend.
we got savvy to dining etiquette in france
i knew there was a historical precedent of eating horse meat in france, but it seemed quite inhumane in this day and age.
like those spotted on fashionable parisiennes, slim-cut dark wash jeans for men can go almost anywhere in paris these days.
or just use the money you saved shopping the sales – after all, they run until february 14!
step 2: la bise smile (not too much in order to remain mysterious) perch two dainty kisses one on each cheek compliment the host (it always goes down a treat)
annelie willemijn here are some hallmarks of parisian style pour homme, as seen on  the city’s streets this chilly season.
whether it’s jeans, chinos or wool trousers, keep the cut close; a flared leg or tailored cuff is a definite style don’t.
with a dash of creativity, there are plenty of original ways to meet people and experience a little of the true paris.
with  a dash of creativity, there are plenty of original ways to meet people and  experience a little of the true paris.
like those  spotted on fashionable parisiennes, slim-cut dark wash jeans for men can go  almost anywhere in paris these days.
my most recent humiliation is horse-related.
still all rather vague?
while stylish parisiennes abound in paris, the people-watching on the cobblestoned streets of montmartre is one of our favorite ways to while away a lazy afternoon on a heated café terrace.
`javier bouzas ; jm rosenfeld written by genevieve sandifer for the hip paris blog.
you  found an apartment, booked your flight, and learned how to ask forles  toilettes.
teo plus, maybe your idea of paris includes escaping the tourist traps and  discovering truly local haunts – great live music at an otherwise  unassuming dive bar, or a fantastic meal at your neighborhood restaurant.
you found an apartment, booked your flight, and learned how to ask forles toilettes.
of course, part of the fun of  travel is making new friends.
know the french: french children are  trained to sit quietly and eat like little adults.
in the months since, we’ve tried many restaurants with our children  (ages four and six).
after passing snug bistros and lively brasseries, we spotted a red neon sign that seemed to scream, “kids welcome here!”
doles hommes parisiens share that certainje ne sais quoi for which their female counterparts  are so admired?
if your plan was to strike up conversation with the local artists over espresso at your neighborhood bistrot, you might want to think up a slightly more elaborate back-up plan.
adjust your restaurant choices  accordingly to avoid a miserable meal for all.
what could possibly go wrong?
now that the introductions are out of the way, it’s time to mingle!continue reading »
written by genevieve sandifer for the hip paris blog.
step 3: chit chat eek!
– geneviève related links: written by badaude for the hip paris blog.
picnic-ing and playing on the champs de mars (markus bollingmo) know your kids.
so when i first moved to paris and started noticing “steak  à cheval” on menus around town, i was wary.
alas, in a word, non. parisian men do, however, have distinctive style that manages to marry the  rakish allure of vincent cassel or olivier martinez with the more bourgeois  appeal of, say, francois cluzet.
so i kept my mouth shut and simply avoided the dreaded horse steak when confronted with it.
– geneviève related links: badaude has also shown us how the parisiennes dress for snow our abbesses, houdon, livingstone, and pilleux apartments are all in  montmartre do it in paris’ guide to everything trendy in monmartre.
whether it’s jeans, chinos or wool trousers, keep the cut close; a flared  leg or tailored cuff is a definite style don’t.
continue reading » posted in design, parisian living, shopping | 7 comments » january 10, 2012 by kelly page after having made the huge, scary, glorious decision to quit my plum entertainment job of 14 years to move to paris, all i could picture was drinking rosé in fabulous cafes in st. germain and strolling with my soon-to-be-named french lover along the seine.
what could possibly go  wrong?
is there something you would like  to see more of in 2012?
after passing snug bistros and lively brasseries, we spotted a red neon  sign that seemed to scream, “kids welcome here!”
one night, we sat down to dinner and i was presented with a traditional dish called bife a cavalo (in portuguese), which translates to “horse-riding steak” or “steak à la horse.”
posted in homes, london | 4 comments » decoding the french menu: the truth about steak à cheval january 24, 2012  by tory hoen a paris chalkboard menu – appearances can be deceiving!
january 30, 2012 by nicole gustin you’re about to realize your dream: living in paris for a month.
here are some tips and sure-fire hits when you venture out to eaten famille.
check out haven in paris.
check out all of our february special offers here, or contact us now to let  us do the work for you.
for weekendsen ville, swap out the dress shoes for a  well-worn pair of tennis — puma or adidas, please.
posted in parisian living | 4 comments » « older entries french restaurant etiquette: dining in france like a local five reasons to love le bon marché
looking for a fabulous vacation rental in paris, london,  provence, or tuscany?
please note that i was a horse-obsessed child, so equine-related topics are  particularly touchy for me.
written by badaude for the hip paris blog.
if you’re planning a trip to london, take a peek at our brand new chelsea vacation rental flat,brompton.
the first big task on moving to paris was finding an apartment.
matchy-matchy,  perfectly pressed and impeccably coordinated is just un-parisian.
“no, it’s like steak à cheval in france,”  g explained.
on behalf of the hip paris team and our gloriously talented contributors,  we wish you warm and happy holidays, and a fantastic new year full of love and  success.
worn with a tailored blazer or fine-knit sweater (think body-hugging),un jean works just as well for a stroll through the centre pompidou as it does for a dinner at a swank bistro.
know the french: french children are trained to sit quietly and eat like little adults.
all photos courtesy of carams.
doles hommes parisiens share that certainje ne sais quoi for which their female counterparts are so admired?
for mid-week lunches, go earlier or later than the business crowd and you’ll likely be met with a smile.
with its private garden, two bedrooms  and plenty of space to lounge and cook, it’s the perfect home base for  exploring all that london has to offer.
finally, coffee you can drink in the city of lights!
posted in homes | 1 comment » paris winter fashion: les hommes parisiens are seductive, sexy, cool january 16, 2012  by paige bradley frost christopher hue paris is known for many things: its light, its bistros and, of course, its  fashionably chic women.
of course, part of the fun of travel is making new friends.
oh, no, this wouldn’t do.
ps: and wouldn’t this make the most darling valentine’s day retreat… written by genevieve sandifer for the hip paris blog.
what exactly is this rather elegant and mysterious sounding soirée?
winter is winter in paris too, but when you can while  away the days eating delicious pastries and drinkingcafé crème or mulled wine in a cozy café, it’s easy to become fond of  the rainy days too.
surely in this city of more than 8,000  restaurants, finding a suitable spot would be simple enough,non?
annelie willemijn les pantalons: athletes with ample quads,  beware: modern parisian trousers aretrès slim cut.
it was at this point that i realized i’d been operating under a  serious misapprehension, and it took the collision of three cultures for the  truth to surface.
so i  kept my mouth shut and simply avoided the dreaded horse steak when confronted  with it.
would my culinary creations have to come from a hot plate in my  betty crocker play kitchen?
continue  reading » posted in homes | 9 comments » the art of the parisian soiree january 5, 2012  by victoria wall to do une soirée or not to do une soirée ?
crying, screaming and crawling under the table are not tolerated and will prompt vocal disapproval and the not-so-subtle “oh la la.”
we’re also still offering some fantastic last-minute discounts on february 2012 dates (for paris and london), socontact us now and get up to 30% off your winter holiday!
watch out for complex digicode systems designed to keep guests out and  lift-less 6th floor apartments in distant parisian destinations.
don’t worry about breaking the  bank – surprisingly, even inexpensive supermarket plonk is still very  drinkable.
men’s shoes have gone narrow and pointy; classics like leather oxfords and sporty suede bucks have seemingly been stretched.
many wonderful restaurants will welcome kids if you go at off-peak times.
home  •   twitter   facebook   rss    •    subscribe to newsletter expat special: what to do with one month in paris january 30, 2012  by nicole gustin piyapat ch you’re about to realize your dream: living in paris for a month.
if you’re planning a trip to london, take a peek at our brand new  chelsea vacation rental flat,brompton.
years into my love affair with paris, i’m still making ridiculous  rookie mistakes.
ps: and wouldn’t this make the most darling valentine’s day  retreat… mauvais garçons marais 1-bedroom written by genevieve sandifer for the hip paris blog.
and, how should it be approached by mere anglophone  mortals?
we unearthed paris’ best coffee spots… … and bike shops … and underground restaurants and dining clubs we pondered what it is that makes french women so fabulous
not where but when: successful family dining is about  knowing when to go.
and we ate, and ate, and ate at our favorite new paris restaurants all of this, thanks to you dear readers!
i suppose it’s time to accept that france will always  have the upper hand, but it still stings.
sundaydéjeuner is a big one for family meals in paris.