included meals: breakfast (in the case of early morning departures, breakfast may not be provided.)
it’s believed that druids, greeks or atlanteans might have  built what’s now one of the most mysterious landmarks in the world... but  no one knows for sure.
leave time for a relaxing stop at a café to watch the world go by—one of paris’ most celebrated traditions.
changes or cancellations  will result in a fee of up to the total tour price.
would you like to edit my wishlist so you can add this tour?edit my wishlist the information you submit will be used solely by go ahead tours.
there’s just so much to do and see here!
the world’s tallest  observation wheel, the london eye lifts its passengers 450 feet above the river  thames for a 30-minute ride in an enclosed gondola.
they’ll provide your family’s transfer to your hotel.
you’ll then embark on a walking tour of the marais district, which spreads across parts of the 3rd and 4th arrondissements in paris on the rive droite, or right bank, of the seine.
included meals: breakfast $99 usd versailles with the family the reign of louis xiv, known as the “sun king,” set new  standards for decadence among the crowned heads of europe.
after clearing customs and collecting your bags, look  for the hotel by bus transfer desk.
c description: centrally located.
edit my wishlist the information you submit will be used solely by go ahead tours.
alternatively, join an optional excursion to windsor castle with the family for a guided visit to the world’s largest inhabited castle.
tonight, opt to join the london eye & dinner with  the family excursion.
founded by william the conqueror in 1070, windsor has been the preferred royal retreat for the past 900 years and is still in use by the royal family.
special child price: $109 glide through the london sky on the london eye.
alternatively, your family can join an optional notre-dame and the marais with  the family excursion.
then stroll through the lavish gardens with their fine statuary, splendid fountains and colorful flowerbeds.
during a free day in london, come face-to-face with a crocodile at zsl london zoo.
explore the vibrant latin quarter, home to the sorbonne, and then stop at the luxembourg gardens, where hemingway was inspired to write.
the  origin and purpose of this ring of stones, which dates from the neolithic  period (about 4,000 years ago), is unknown, though most believe it to have been  a temple and observatory.
nowadays, the cobblestone streets  of the marais are lined with charming cafes, trendy boutiques, and delicious  restaurants.
explore the vibrant latin quarter, home to the sorbonne, and  then stop at the luxembourg gardens, where hemingway was inspired to write.
founded by william the conqueror in  1070, windsor has been the preferred royal retreat for the past 900 years and  is still in use by the royal family.
please note:the day of the week for this excursion is subject to change.
special child price: $79 enjoy another free day to explore london on your own or join a full-day optional excursion to stonehenge & bath with the family.
you’ll drive down the sycamore-lined champs-élysées, one of the world’s most celebrated avenues.
in clear weather, you can  see for 25 miles around the city center.
alternatively, your family can join an optional notre-dame and the marais with the family excursion.
add to wishlist my wishlist allows a maximum of five tours.
special child price: $75 there’s just so much to do and see here!
alternatively, join an  optional excursion to windsor castle with the family for a guided visit to the  world’s largest inhabited castle.
however you spend your  time, london and paris will find a special place in your family's heart.
you can also  stroll along the champs-élysées, perhaps the world’s most  famous avenue.
relax aboard comfortable, state-of-the-art transportation, arriving at gare du nord in paris just three hours later.
afterward, enjoy a mini-tour of  london’s west end before venturing to a local pub for dinner.
they’ll provide your family’s  transfer to your hotel.
with your free day in paris  today, visit the picasso museum in the quiet marais district or consider a  climb to montmartre, where you can watch streetside artists capturing scenes on  their canvases.
view the exhibit of royal treasures on display  within the castle.
your guided tour includes westminster abbey (setting for royal  coronations, weddings and funerals), big ben, parliament, 10 downing street,  tower bridge, trafalgar square, piccadilly circus, and st. james’s  palace, where you might glimpse the ceremonial changing of the guard  (seasonal).
you’ll then have time to stroll through the town of  windsor and have a look at eton college, a prestigious prep school attended by  princes william and harry.
submit the information you submit will be used solely by go ahead tours.
included meals:  breakfast $39 usd notre-dame & the marais with the family venture to the legendary two-towered notre-dame cathedral, which stands on  an island in the seine.
book this trip add trip to wishlist email a friend request more info print itinerary go ahead diamond property comfortable rooms with phone, tv and  private bathrooms with bath or shower.
reserve your next london and paris vacation with  go ahead tours - airfare included.his london and paris family vacation, you'll  see big ben, the eiffel tower, london bridge, notre-dame and more.
please note: this excursion requires advanced reservation and must be booked by 45 days prior to departure.
step inside the state  apartments and st. george’s chapel (closed sundays), where the knights of  the garter ceremony takes place.
however you spend your time, london and paris will find a special place in your family's heart.
with your free day in paris today, visit the picasso museum in the quiet marais district or consider a climb to montmartre, where you can watch streetside artists capturing scenes on their canvases.
9 days from $2,489* usd now includes all government taxes & fees!
leave time for a relaxing stop at a café to watch the  world go by—one of paris’ most celebrated traditions.
special child price: $109 day 6 - paris this morning, transfer to st. pancras station.
read our privacy policy.
prices do not include between $60 usd and $325 usd in government taxes and fees, including the september 11th security fee.
the event begins with dinner at a local restaurant.
to pick up family vacation souvenirs, a leisurely visit to harrods—15 acres of tempting merchandise, ranging from silk scarves and soap to the world’s most meticulously decorated cakes—is a must.
this excursion includes a climb up the tower’s 422 winding steps to the belfry where quasimodo made the bells sing.
tour the state  apartments and the glittering hall of mirrors.
your guided tour includes westminster abbey (setting for royal coronations, weddings and funerals), big ben, parliament, 10 downing street, tower bridge, trafalgar square, piccadilly circus, and st. james’s palace, where you might glimpse the ceremonial changing of the guard (seasonal).
later, celebrate and relive memories of your family vacation at tonight’s optional evening in paris with the family excursion that includes dinner and a boat cruise along the seine.
during a free day in london, come face-to-face with a crocodile at zsl  london zoo.
are you sure you want to save this trip to your wishlist?submit
special child price: $75 day 8 - paris
included meals: breakfast (in flight), dinner this morning, board one of london’s famed double-decker buses for your guided tour.
included meals: breakfast (in flight), dinner day 3 - london this morning, board one of london’s famed double-decker buses for  your guided tour.
unlike in peter pan, the crocodiles at this zoo don’t tick—but remember to keep your hands to yourself, or else you may end up like captain hook!
the information you submit will be used solely by go ahead tours.
tour packages by region:  italy  tours |  great britain & ireland tours |  central,  northern & eastern europe tours |  greece & the mediterranean  tours |  france tours |  spain & portugal tours australia & new zealand tours |  africa tours |  asia  tours |  central & south america tours |  north america  tours |  middle east tours |  view all tour packages tour packages by type:  walking tours |  family vacations  | food & wine tours |  city stays |  special  event tours |  land & cruise tours |  nature &  wildlife tours company information:  why go ahead?
please note: windsor castle is occasionally closed when in use by the royal family; a visit to henry viii’s hampton court will be substituted when necessary.
please  contact the airline for more information.
a go ahead representative escorts you to the airport for your return flight home.
you’ll see the state apartments and the glittering hall of mirrors, then stroll through the gardens with their fine statuary, splendid fountains and colorful flower beds.
after you dine, board a boat cruise along the seine.
after you dine,  board a boat cruise along the seine.
to view go ahead's complete terms and  conditions, visitgoaheadtours.com/terms.
special child price:  $79 day 5 - london enjoy another free day to explore london on your own or join a full-day  optional excursion to stonehenge & bath with the family.
here, you’ll board the  eurostar, europe’s quarter-mile-long, high-speed train that whisks  passengers through tunnels dug under the english channel and resurfaces in  france.
your tour director will show you the town’s major sights, including the wonderfully preserved roman baths for which the town is named.
you’ll pass the legendary notre-dame cathedral and then continue on to  the eiffel tower, where you’ll “climb” to the top for the  most magnificent view of paris imaginable.
later, celebrate and relive memories of your family  vacation at tonight’s optional evening in paris with the family excursion  that includes dinner and a boat cruise along the seine.
you’ll drive down the sycamore-lined  champs-élysées, one of the world’s most celebrated avenues.
please note: prices are quoted per person in us dollars.
modern guest rooms with modern private bathrooms and air conditioning.
step inside the state apartments and st. george’s chapel (closed sundays), where the knights of the garter ceremony takes place.
included meals: breakfast  (in the case of early morning departures, breakfast may not be provided.)
now includes all government taxes & fees!
you’ll soar 450 feet above the river thames for  spectacular views of london.
your tour director will  show you the town’s major sights, including the wonderfully preserved  roman baths for which the town is named.
your family vacation begins with a regularly scheduled overnight flight aboard an internationally recognized airline.
this excursion includes a climb up the tower’s 422  winding steps to the belfry where quasimodo made the bells sing.
also, if london’s literary side interests you, stop at the dickens house museum and tour the newly reconstructed globe theater, a replica of the stage where shakespeare himself often appeared.
you’ll discover the very where jm barrie brought peter  pan to life.
after clearing customs and collecting your bags, look for the hotel by bus transfer desk.
included meals: breakfast included entrances: eiffel tower the reign of louis xiv, known as the “sun king,” set new standards for decadence among the crowned heads of europe.
please  note:the day of the week for this excursion is subject to change.
included meals: breakfast $85 usd windsor castle with the family led by a blue badge guide, you’ll travel to windsor for a guided  visit to the world’s largest and longest-inhabited castle.
offering 50 reviews of all seasons paris bercy in paris *restrictions apply:   prices are per person based on  double occupancy and vary by departure date and gateway.
special child price: $79 bid a fond farewell to london and paris!
you can also stroll along the champs-élysées, perhaps the world’s most famous avenue.
you’ll pass the legendary notre-dame cathedral and then continue on to the eiffel tower, where you’ll “climb” to the top for the most magnificent view of paris imaginable.
it’s believed that druids, greeks or atlanteans might have built what’s now one of the most mysterious landmarks in the world... but no one knows for sure.
on this excursion, you will see the palace in all its glory.
founded by william the conqueror in 1070, windsor has been the british royal family’s preferred retreat for the past 900 years.
it's the best of times for family-friendly travel!
detailed itinerary day 1 - overnight flight exciting!
this afternoon, enjoy a tour of the tower of london, followed by a  thames river cruise that takes you underneath the famous london bridge.
it took 50 years and  35,000 workers to turn versailles, once a small hunting lodge, into the most  magnificent château in all of france and the envy of royalty worldwide.
this afternoon, join an optional  versailles with the family excursion that includes a tour of the palace in all  its glory.
you’ll see the state apartments and the glittering hall of  mirrors, then stroll through the gardens with their fine statuary, splendid  fountains and colorful flower beds.
airline fuel surcharges, as  applicable at time of pricing, are included.
to pick up  family vacation souvenirs, a leisurely visit to harrods—15 acres of  tempting merchandise, ranging from silk scarves and soap to the world’s  most meticulously decorated cakes—is a must.
this afternoon, join an optional versailles with the family excursion that includes a tour of the palace in all its glory.
here, you’ll board the eurostar, europe’s quarter-mile-long, high-speed train that whisks passengers through tunnels dug under the english channel and resurfaces in france.
included meals: breakfast visit stonehenge, perhaps england’s most mysterious landmark.
afterward, tour the marais district of paris.
you’ll climb the north tower’s 422  steps—just like quasimodo!—for a once-in-a-lifetime experience.
your name your email your  friend's email(s) (you may enter up to 10 email addresses separated with either  a comma (,) or a semicolon (;) add a personalized message your name your email your  friend's email(s) (you may enter up to 10 email addresses separated with either  a comma (,) or a semicolon (;) add a personalized message are you sure you want to save this trip to your wishlist?
read our  privacy policy.
this afternoon, enjoy a tour of the tower of london, followed by a thames river cruise that takes you underneath the famous london bridge.
tonight, meet your fellow family travelers at tonight’s
special child price: $109 this morning, transfer to st. pancras station.
included meals: breakfast $105  usd stonehenge & bath with the family visit stonehenge, perhaps england’s most mysterious landmark.
the origin and purpose of this ring of stones, which dates from the neolithic period (about 4,000 years ago), is unknown, though most believe it to have been a temple and observatory.
applicable airline baggage  fees are not included and can be found atgoaheadtours.com/baggage.
special child price: $29 $99 usd evening in paris with the family take in the nighttime allure of the city of light on a special evening  excursion.
prices do not include between $60 usd and $325 usd in government taxes and  fees, including the september 11th security fee.
also, if london’s literary side interests you, stop at  the dickens house museum and tour the newly reconstructed globe theater, a  replica of the stage where shakespeare himself often appeared.
please note: the dress code may vary depending your restaurant, and your tour director will advise you on what to wear, but shorts and sneakers are likely to be considered inappropriate attire.
included meals: breakfast, dinner day 7 - paris this morning, discover the historic and cultural landmarks of the city of  light on a guided tour.
it took 50 years and 35,000 workers to turn versailles, once a small hunting lodge, into the most magnificent château in all of france and the envy of royalty worldwide.
day 2 - london welcome to london!
then, continue on to the beautiful georgian city of  bath, famous for its georgian and regency architecture.
unlike in peter pan, the crocodiles at this zoo don’t  tick—but remember to keep your hands to yourself, or else you may end up  like captain hook!
then stroll through the lavish  gardens with their fine statuary, splendid fountains and colorful flowerbeds.
nobody knows who built it!
services: buffet or continental  breakfast, concierge service, currency exchange, and safe deposit.
the world’s tallest observation wheel, the london eye lifts its passengers 450 feet above the river thames for a 30-minute ride in an enclosed gondola.
special child price: $29 take in the nighttime allure of the city of light on a special evening excursion.
tour the state apartments and the glittering hall of mirrors.
airline fuel surcharges, as applicable at time of pricing, are included.
please note: the dress code may  vary depending your restaurant, and your tour director will advise you on what  to wear, but shorts and sneakers are likely to be considered inappropriate  attire.
included meals: breakfast led by a blue badge guide, you’ll travel to windsor for a guided visit to the world’s largest and longest-inhabited castle.
your family vacation begins with a regularly scheduled overnight  flight aboard an internationally recognized airline.
on our london and paris  family vacation tour packages.
special child price:  $109 $119 usd london eye & dinner with the family glide through the london sky on the london eye.
nowadays, the cobblestone streets of the marais are lined with charming cafes, trendy boutiques, and delicious restaurants.
you’ll soar 450 feet above the river thames for spectacular views of london.
advertised tour prices  are based on lowest-priced departure date and gateway.
you’ll then have time to stroll through the town of windsor and have a look at eton college, a prestigious prep school attended by princes william and harry.
(please note: windsor castle is  occasionally closed when in use by the royal family; a visit to hampton court  will be substituted when necessary.)
dinner is included this evening.
|  faqs  | tour reviews |  questions & answers |   suggested reading |  press |  privacy |  terms  and conditions |  site map |  careers |  contact  us join us on: click here  for bbb business review get advice from real travelers on tripadvisor
special child price: $79 day 9 - paris bid a fond farewell to london and paris!
services: the above services plus laundry and full-service restaurant.
reserve your next london and paris vacation with go ahead tours - airfare included.his london and paris family vacation, you'll see big ben, the eiffel tower, london bridge, notre-dame and more.
included meals: breakfast, dinner this morning, discover the historic and cultural landmarks of the city of light on a guided tour.
included meals: breakfast included entrances: tower of london, thames river cruise
a go ahead representative escorts  you to the airport for your return flight home.
as you coast along the river and under  paris' bridges, you'll behold the gloriously illuminated monuments of paris  glittering alongside the riverbanks.
(please note: windsor castle is occasionally closed when in use by the royal family; a visit to hampton court will be substituted when necessary.)
included meals: breakfast venture to the legendary two-towered notre-dame cathedral, which stands on an island in the seine.
my wishlist allows a maximum of five tours.
founded by  william the conqueror in 1070, windsor has been the british royal  family’s preferred retreat for the past 900 years.
you’ll  then embark on a walking tour of the marais district, which spreads across  parts of the 3rd and 4th arrondissements in paris on the rive droite, or right  bank, of the seine.
tonight, opt to join the london eye & dinner with the family excursion.
as you coast along the river and under paris' bridges, you'll behold the gloriously illuminated monuments of paris glittering alongside the riverbanks.
then, continue on to the beautiful georgian city of bath, famous for its georgian and regency architecture.
relax aboard comfortable, state-of-the-art transportation, arriving at  gare du nord in paris just three hours later.
maybe you'll  walk past 221b baker st., where sherlock holmes lived, or find remy from  "ratatouille" near a parisian restaurant.
after you check-in, set out to acquaint yourself with  london.
nobody knows who  built it!
you’ll discover the very where jm barrie brought peter pan to life.
please note: this excursion requires advanced reservation and must be  booked by 45 days prior to departure.
would you like to edit my  wishlist so you can add this tour?
included meals: breakfast included entrances: tower of london, thames river  cruise day 4 - london
in clear weather, you can see for 25 miles around the city center.
please note: windsor castle is occasionally  closed when in use by the royal family; a visit to henry viii’s hampton  court will be substituted when necessary.
maybe you'll walk past 221b baker st., where sherlock holmes lived, or find remy from "ratatouille" near a parisian restaurant.
you’ll climb the north tower’s 422 steps—just like quasimodo!—for a once-in-a-lifetime experience.
on our london and paris family vacation tour packages.
after you check-in, set out to acquaint yourself with london.
afterward, enjoy a mini-tour of london’s west end before venturing to a local pub for dinner.
view the exhibit of royal treasures on display within the castle.
the tour operator for your trip is ef  cultural travel ltd. cst-2060043-20.