please note that our tauck directors are not responsible for providing babysitting services.
we will advise your tauck director accordingly.
vietnam, cambodia and thailand have shared the same tropical peninsula for centuries, but for all their similarities, each country offers a diverse tapestry of art, culture and history uniquely their own.
in the event of an unforeseen circumstance beyond our control, tauck reserves the right to amend the cancellation terms outlined herein.
adventures include hot-air ballooning over african plains, cruising the river nile, game drives in legendary game reserves, and a camel ride in egypt.
a hotel may consider “adjacent” to be  across the hall.
special requests we will be happy to advise hotels of  any special requests, provided we receive them at time of booking.
for more information on the secure flight program, please visit the tsa website by clickinghere.
certain restrictions apply to unaccompanied goods mailed from abroad to the u.s. please call your local customs office or consult the u.s. government's customs regulations as contained in their publication entitledknow before you go.
if you are a resident of the u.s. traveling internationally, no vaccinations are currently required for travel to the united kingdom or france.
weather – the weather in london and paris is variable.
all children must be accompanied on activities by a parent or guardian.
there are usually many opportunities to make or receive calls at times when it does not affect others.
meals – most meals are included as specified in the  itinerary.
look for gargoyles and imagine the hunchback of notre dame high up in his bell tower, as you visit the majestic cathedral with a local expert on your paris tour today.
if you wish to spend additional nights, please consult extend your tripin the accommodations section  above on this webpage and discuss it with your reservations sales  consultant or travel agent when you book your tour.
in summer, the heat and humidity in paris causes some moderate discomfort.
journey start and end timesare provided at the time of booking.
for safety and security purposes, at time of booking, room accommodations for children under 18 year of age must be made in the same room as a an accompanying adult; exceptions may be granted under certain circumstances with parental consent.
tour interruption fees
tauck reservation sales counselors are available: monday through friday 6 am - 8 pm saturday 9 am - 5 pm sunday 12 pm - 5 pm (eastern time) some additional questions you might have about booking this trip:
another  great reason to buy your air from tauck!
guests whose appliances do not conform to these standards may need to bring the appropriate converters and adapters.
our reading lists are custom-designed to complement specific tauck destinations.
later, it’s spy versus spy on an afternoon "spy walk," where you'll become a secret agent and try to save the world... will you rescue the damsel in distress... and what about the white cat?
a light sweater or jacket will provide warmth on a chilly early morning walk or a late night stroll.
you'll travel under the english channel through the engineering marvel known as the channel tunnel (unofficially called the "chunnel") – arriving in paris before you know it.
however, the use of cell phones can be disruptive to a tour and to other guests who are enjoying their vacation.
your tauck director is a professional, fully trained employee of tauck.
quadruple accommodations are not available for four persons 18 and  older.
in london, atms are available and visa, mastercard and american express are widely accepted; visitors with other cards should check with their credit card companies in advance.
then cross the english channel aboard theeurostar for more historic adventures in paris.
guest protection not protect travel agent commissions.
the travelers' health section of the cdc operates a 24-hour "travelers' health hotline" at 800-232-4636 (toll-free in the u.s.).
the whitewashed villages of a greek isle...
explore tauck france explore all the europe destinations tauck world discovery:
tauck world discovery classics what makes tauck's small ship cruise travel and river cruise travel unique is our focus on the destination – in scenic ports of call that connect you with people and places...
moving, compelling and heart-warming experiences onboard and ashore that let you discover your own inspiration through cruise travel.
to qualify for a child discount, the child’s birth date must be  provided at time of booking.
we also recommend that you make a photocopy of the front and back sides of your atm and credit cards to leave behind with someone at home who will assist you in the event your cards are misplaced, lost or stolen.
deposit date upon your request, we will hold space tentatively for you and give a “deposit due date,” by which a deposit must be received or space is automatically released.
call 800-788-7885 or contact your travel agent to book your hotel with tauck.
explore tauck western canada explore all the canada destinations tauck world discovery:
we will do all that we can to secure rooms next to one another or connecting when possible.
explore tauck south america explore all the latin america destinations tauck world discovery: south america explore ancient egypt’s treasures, from the pyramids to the magnificent temples to the tombs of the pharaohs, and cruise along the river nile with tauck’s expert egyptologists.
bridges family trips family fyi: did you know that the first glacier express trains in the 1930s were pulled by locomotives called "crocodiles"?
many tauck travelers prefer arriving at their destination a day before their tauck journey begins, or often extend a stay at the end of their trip.
this optional cancellation fee waiver must be requested at time of booking and fee must be included with initial payment.
discover the diverse cultures and traditions that have shaped israel since antiquity and continue to define life today.
if you are traveling with a child on a tauck journey, you have the sole responsibility for ensuring that that the child with whom you are traveling follows all rules of safety throughout the tour.
triples are usually two-bedded rooms plus a rollaway cot and are not recommended for comfort.
tour prices are per person in u.s. dollars.
membership will be granted to all persons.
with so much to see and do, iceland is not only one of the hottest new destinations for those in-the-know, it’s also a very cool place to cruise with tauck.
the royal horseguardsday 5 the channel, the "chunnel" and amazing parismeals b, d say "cheerio" to london as you ride aboard the high-speed eurostar train to paris.
for your day-to-day travel while on tour, we recommend that you limit your hand luggage to a small, soft-sided carry-on piece, and that you bring only those items you need handy during the day such as make-up, medications, cameras, film, etc.
europe has experienced unusually warm temperatures during the summer months in recent years, so do include some lighter clothing in your travel wardrobe.
final payment is due at tauck’s norwalk, ct office  60 days before departure.
we suggest that you: •pack at least one change of  clothing in your carry-on bag •split your items between your suitcase  and a traveling companion's suitcase •do not pack any vital  medications or valuables in your checked luggage •confirm that your  luggage is checked and tagged to your final destination at airport check-in •place your luggage claim tags in a secure place for your flight •file a claim for any missing luggage immediately before leaving the  baggage claim area •secure a case number and contact information for  follow-up communications •make certain that the airline has your  onward itinerary your tauck director will assist you with airline and other carrier  communications, but has no inside contacts to guarantee or expedite recovery of  lost luggage.
if you prefer that your image and that of your child not be used in any marketing activities, please notify your tauck director at the start of your tour.
59-8 days before departure $900 per person 7-1 days before departure $1500 per person time of cancellation will be when notice is received in our norwalk, ct office.
when making flight arrangements, allow sufficient time to claim luggage and clear customs in order to join the tour on time.
we must handle ticketing for our special fares, which are subject to availability and cannot be guaranteed until reserved.
carry-on luggage - general
please note that we cannot guarantee adjacent, adjoining or connecting rooms.
tauck’s cancellation fee waiver should you have to cancel your tour for any reason, tauck’s non-refundable cancellation fee waiver waives all cancellation fees outlined (except in extreme circumstances*), provided we are notified of cancellation before your tour departs.
if you have to cancel cancellations fees – regardless of reason,  cancellations result in costly charges from our travel and hotel providers  covering penalties and fees incurred by canceling confirmed bookings.
if you need such assistance, you must be accompanied by an able companion who will help you.
details will be provided with written  confirmation of your tour reservation.
select one or more travel options, then click the "find" button.
gratuities  included– all gratuities for restaurant and hotel staffs, local  guides and drivers, and the tauck director are included.
casual, cotton clothing is recommended.
if you make your own airline reservations, please ensure that the airline has the correct information.
raft through an eagle preserve, walk through centuries-old towns, pan for gold, and meet totem pole carvers.
active travel best sellers classics fall foliage family travel food & wine holiday travel ken burns american journeys nature one week trips river cruising small ship cruising small ship cruising and river cruises tauck events us national parks what's new when would you like to travel?
explore tauck cuba tauck world discovery:
if you still have energy to spare after a busy day in london town, visit the hotel’s gym offering a complete range of cardiovascular fitness equipment and weights.
you may wish to log on to wikipedia to view a list of holidays by country by clickinghere.
fishing villages where you'll get a glimpse of daily life along rugged shores... fjords ringed by emerald mountains... craggy cliffs blanketed with whimsical puffins and arctic terns... rainbow-hued waterfalls and steamy geysers... lakes teeming with nesting ducks... and a blue lagoon that welcomes bathers with healing waters.
spain & portugal tauck’s africa tours and safaris are compelling and intriguing, from the great pyramids to the savannahs of the serengeti.
they take you from thundering niagara falls to peaceful island cruises, from chateau-style hotels to the weathered house that inspired anne of green gables.
explore tauck central america explore all the latin america destinations tauck world discovery: central america south america is one of the most sought-after destinations for today's sophisticated travelers – vast cultural diversity and cosmopolitan pleasures from rio de janeiro to buenos aires, santiago and lima; breathtaking beauty from iguazú falls to patagonia and the andes; unique cultural heritages created by influences from destinations the world over; and the galápagos islands, home to species found nowhere else in the world.
as a service, tauck will make hotel reservations before and after your journey.
central & eastern europe from the moving memorials at omaha beach to the glitz and glamour of the côte d’azur, tauck's france tours combine insider expert insights with the cultural panache that defines all things français.
foreign currency is not accepted.
gratuities included– all gratuities for restaurant and hotel staffs, local guides and drivers, and the tauck director are included.
in estonia, latvia, and lithuania, there are medieval districts so well preserved that they are unesco world heritage sites.
the terrace, offering alfresco dining, is a peaceful oasis in the midst of the busy city while the equus bar, which has a wide array on interesting non-alcoholic refreshments such as equus cola made from a top-secret recipe, as well as traditional and contemporary cocktails, is reminiscent of the kind of “gentlemen’s club” of which upper-crust englishmen were so fond in days gone by.
child pricing - children less than 18 years of age must be booked in a room with at least one  adult; exceptions may be granted under certain circumstances with parental  consent.
guests choosing not to purchase  tauck guest protection product or cancellation fee waiver will incur  cancellation penalties per person as follows: 60 days or more before departure $600 per person (the  amount of the deposit)
if you require babysitting services, your tauck director will put you in contact with the appropriate hotel staff with whom you may make babysitting arrangements.
explore tauck middle east tauck world discovery:
you should be in good health and able to walk reasonable distances over uneven terrain, as some of the most memorable sightseeing can only be accomplished on foot.
from late march through october, these cities switch to daylight savings time and are 1 and 2 hours ahead, respectively.
such refunds are based upon the number of overnights missed less $40 per day for unused transportation and other fixed expenses.
it is advisable to avoid wearing jeans, sneakers or shorts for dinner.
tour cancellation fees are waived  regardless of reason, without written notice, and tauck will refund land tour  cost.
we reserve the right to alter or curtail the itinerary, or substitute sightseeing, hotels, and/or conveyances as deemed necessary.
airlines revise luggage policies frequently and often without notice; therefore, we cannot be held liable for the accuracy of the weight limit listed above.
transportation from  london heathrow and gatwick airports or st. pancras or waterloo train  stations to the royal horseguards is included, regardless of  the time you check in to the hotel, provided you have furnished us  with accurate flight arrival information at least two weeks prior to the start  of the tour.
to qualify for a child discount, the child’s birth date must be provided at time of booking.
we cannot be held liable for additional fees or inconveniences imposed by the airline due to luggage number, weight and size policies.
all carriers are independent contractors and are not owned, managed, controlled or operated by us.
cruise aboard tauck's luxury yacht,le boreal or l'austral, to the majestic ice-clad continent of antarctica after spending two nights in buenos aires on an exciting 10-day expeditionary voyage with on-board naturalists, oceanographers and ornithologists.
mediterranean scandinavia, russia, & baltics spain & portugal latin america central america south america middle east united states alaska hawaii new england south / mid usa us west what would you like to do?
hawaii tauck's new england tours take you to green mountain ridges with white village steeples, quintessential harbors with tall sailboat masts, and historical icons, city and countryside.
escape to centuries past as you watch a shakespearean performance at stratford-upon-avon or view the mysterious monoliths outside of dublin; imagine yourself as royalty aboard first-class trains, steam yachts and river cruise ships.
explore tauck india explore all the asia destinations tauck world discovery:
if you cancel or change your air booking before or after departure, all airline cancellation and change fees will apply.
wine food wine new for 2011, tauck is partnering with award-winning documentary filmmaker ken burns and his longtime collaborator, dayton duncan.
guest protection not protect travel  agent commissions.
spacious, sumptuously furnished guest rooms reflecting the victorian age in this historic hotel offer up-to-the-minute amenities like an ipod docking station with bose surround sound, an electrical plug built into the in-room safe
our standard is to provide the best available accommodations without sacrificing value.
explore the opulent palace with a local guide and view the exquisite gardens, among the most extraordinary and famous in the world.
see street artists at work in montmartre... and visit notre dame cathedral, from which quasimodo gazed out over paris inthe hunchback of notre dame, and a "living" witness to over seven centuries of paris' history.
tauck’s guest protection and cancellation fee waiver guests booking a tauck journey have the option of purchasing cancellation protection from tauck in the event they need to cancel their trip after making their reservations.
a hotel may consider “adjacent” to be across the hall.
explore tauck us west explore all the united states destinations tauck world discovery: us west cultured, cosmopolitan cities combine with rugged coastal scenery and quaint fishing villages on these five eastern canada tours.
please note that we cannot guarantee adjacent, adjoining or connecting  rooms.
what do you envision as a perfect mediterranean travel getaway?
lost luggage is an unfortunate possibility in today's world of airline travel.
london and paris are home to innumerable historic buildings and sites, some dating from antiquity.
tauck combines authentic cultural connections, insights from local experts, our signature sightseeing and memorable experiences for our guests only to ensure that each journey is enriching and inspiring.
to obtain the most current exchange rates for all national currencies by checking your local newspaper or by logging on to oanda.comby clicking here.
train and airport transfers are included for these extended stays as described above underinclusive prices .
guests choosing to purchase tauck’s cancellation fee waiver will incur cancellation penalties of$185 per person regardless of cancellation date prior to tour departure date.
this is the heart of europe: alpine vistas in switzerland, germany and austria; preserved medieval towns and castles along the lush rhine and danube waterways; imperial splendors in vienna and budapest; cafés, bistros, and bierstubes in villages off-the-beaten-path; and architectural triumphs in grand cities of amsterdam, berlin, warsaw, prague, dubrovnik, and more.
they’ll bring their unique perspectives, knowledge and behind-the-scenes insights to guests on a variety of u.s. projects, from filmed narratives on select trips to hosting special signature events and the development of new trips.
planner see london by private double-decker busmeals d tour begins: 3:00 pm, the royal horseguards.
the additional expense will be added to your tour cost.
based upon our experience with family travelers, for each itinerary we have a minimum recommended age to encourage comfort and enjoyment for all of our guests.
if you are a u.s. resident traveling internationally who will be returning to the u.s. at the end of the tour, you are entitled to a duty-free exemption based on the total value of merchandise purchase abroad, as long as you physically bring them with you.
there are bound to be questions when travelling.
hotel accommodations – the tour price includes all hotel accommodations with private baths.
secure one set of copies in the safe in your room while traveling and leave one set behind with someone at home who will assist you in the event your documents are misplaced, lost or stolen.
you should allow a minimum of 3 hours for your flight check-in.
– airfare may be purchased from us  for travel originating in the united states.
august 26, 2012 $4,290 children 11 and under discount $100 children under  18 must be booked in a room with at least one adult; exceptions may be granted  under certain circumstances with parental consent.
you may find additional information by visitingvisahq.com by clicking here.
the amount of any refund shall be reduced by any recoveries obtained by you from any third parties.
for complete vaccination and inoculation information, contact your physician, the public health service in your area, or the u.s. centers for disease control (cdc) in atlanta, georgia, u.s.a.
coverage for the  following elements is provided by berkelycare, ltd. and is subject to the  terms, conditions and exclusions of the policy: airfare protection – should you need to cancel or  interrupt your tour for covered reasons, airfares and air penalties will be  covered up to the original airfare cost.
we recommend  overnight mailing service for any reservation that is made within 30 days of  the tour departure date to ensure timely delivery.
tauck director – castles &  kings: london to parisis conducted by a tauck director who remains with  the group throughout the duration of the tour.
they include joining instructions, hotel lists, tour itinerary, clothing suggestions, luggage tags and other pertinent information.
we recommend that children be 8 years of age or older to fully participate in all activities planned for this tour.
if you travel into or out of the u.s. with children under the age of 18, you should be aware of the following: because of increasing incidents of child abductions in disputed custody cases and because children are at risk as possible victims of child pornography, u.s. customs and border protection (cbp) strongly recommends that unless the child is accompanied by both parents, you should have a notarized note from the child's other parent (or, in the case of a child traveling with grandparents, uncles or aunts, sisters or brothers, or friends, a note signed by both parents) stating that the parent(s) not traveling acknowledge that the parent(s), family members, etc. who are traveling into or out of the u.s. with the child have permission to do so.
the royal horseguardsday 3 a castle fit for a queen, a bike ride & a west end showmeals b the home of english kings and queens for over 900 years, stately windsor castle is still a residence of the british royal family – and you'll tour this castle "fit for a queen" (or a king) today; seeing the exquisitely detailed queen mary's dolls' house is a treat for children of all ages.
space under seats or in the overhead rack is typically small, and designed to accommodate items like coats, hats, purses, and small camera bags, etc.
first and business class ticket holders may have different restrictions than coach class travelers.
information on everything from weather to internet connections can be found below.
climb aboard one of london's signature double-decker buses for a private guided tour of this grand capital city, which you'll learn about on a four-night stay in the heart of it all at the royal horseguards, the former wwi-era headquarters of the british secret service.
by using our air services, you agree that we, in purchasing, selling or otherwise arranging air transportation, are acting only as your agent and are not liable or responsible for any accident, death, personal injury, illness, property damage, delay or other loss or expense of any nature whatsoever arising directly or indirectly out of any act of god, or any actions or omissions (including any failure to provide services) or default of, any carrier.
for the welcome and farewell receptions, casual resort wear is appropriate; formal wear is never required for dining with your fellow guests at a tauck provided dinner.
tickets or e-ticket numbers will be mailed with final documents.
any bookings without full payment at  this time may be subject to cancellation without notice.
clothing and packing – the weather in london and paris is changeable and unpredictable.
it should arrive shortly.
transportation to and from airports and train stations  may be shared with other tauck guests.
hotel accommodations – the tour price  includes all hotel accommodations with private baths.
therefore, the following fees apply.
atm and credit cards – we recommend that you contact your bank in advance of departing on this tour to determine whether you will be able to use your atm and credit cards while traveling.
*extreme circumstances: in the event of an act of god, war (whether declared or undeclared), terrorism, accident, natural disaster, outbreak of disease, or other event or circumstance beyond our control that contributes to or results in cancellation rates above our historical cancellation rates in the absence of such event or occurrence, tauck reserves the right to issue a credit to you in lieu of a money-back refund, applicable to a future tauck journey.
triples are usually a two-bedded room with a rollaway cot or a sofa bed; quadruples may be accommodated in two separate rooms.
africa antarctica asia australia canada eastern canada western canada cuba europe central & eastern europe france great britain & ireland iceland italy
to read about current weather conditions, we suggest you log on to the internet website,noaa.gov, by clicking here.
you may also log on to the cdc website by clickinghere.
hotel room  charges will be added to the tour cost.
residents of puerto rico are eligible for some  cancellation protection by purchasing tauck's cancellation fee waiver (see  below).
guests choosing not to purchase tauck guest protection product or cancellation fee waiver will incur cancellation penalties per person as follows: 60 days or more before departure $600 per person (the amount of the deposit)
the maximum elevation on this tour is approximately 1,000 feet (305 meters).
therefore, roads, walkways and architecture may present difficulties for you if you have physical limitations.
middle east just 90 miles from the florida keys and unlike anyplace else in the americas, cuba has been “close to home but far away” for decades.
we regret  that requests cannot be guaranteed.
close this window please wait while we generate your custom trip
– if you have to interrupt your tour en route, you may be entitled to a refund of land tour costs if it exceeds 24 hours; certain restrictions apply.
we regret that requests cannot be guaranteed.
we recommend overnight mailing service for any reservation that is made within 30 days of the tour departure date to ensure timely delivery.
ali, age 14” longitude books has been recommending reading lists, maps, and travel guides to tauck guests for many years.
tauck travel protection product /
situated in the heart of paris near the tuileries gardens and the eiffel tower, the westin paris offers an ideal, idyllic retreat – an oasis of tranquility right in the center of one of the world's most exciting cities.
this is the realm of bald eagles, grizzlies, orcas, alpine peaks, and glacier-carved fjords.
tauck’s guest protection under tauck’s all-inclusive guest protection, you can cancel your  tour for any reason up to the day before departure and receive a money-back  refund (except in extreme circumstances*) on the land tour cost.
the dramatic amalfi coastline... or the centuries-old city walls of dubrovnik.
if the child resides in the continental united states, the backpack will be sent to his or her home approximately two weeks prior to the tour departure date.
tauck's travel protection is available to all travelers, with the exception  of residents of puerto rico.
experiencing rich cultural traditions and venerable japanese customs are an intricate part of tauck's japan tour, where age-old cultures and lifestyles flourish, inspiring the spirit as well as the senses.
rain falls evenly throughout the year and averages 1.5 to 2.5 in (38.
the westin parisday 6 a château fit for a king & a louvre treasure huntmeals b, l today's paris tour takes you on a visit to château de versailles, built by king louis xiv and the largest palace in europe, revealing a realm of grandeur and riches beyond the imagination of the montmartre artists of his time; it would cost more than $2 billion to build this sprawling palace complex today!
other hotel features include the westinworkout gym, a world-class spa, business center, available in-room spa services, fine dining in the elegant le first restaurant, outdoor dining at la terrasse, and the warm, inviting tuileries bar.
the guest  protection plan waives cancellation fees outlined, provided we are notified of  cancellation before your tour departs.
details will be provided with written confirmation of your tour reservation.
your airline ticket constitutes a contract between yourself and the airline only, even if purchased through us.
as an added service, we can make flight arrangements for your journey, if your travels originate in the united states, offering you a number of welcome advantages.
if you are traveling from an airport outside the jurisdiction of the u.s., you will need to determine what travel documentation and identification is required for that particular airport.
tauck small ship cruising tauck river cruises cruise travel in-depth cultural discoveries & exclusive insider experiences not easily accessible to the traveling public
authorization for emergency medical treatment
australia discover one of the richest ecotourism destinations in the world on an adventurious, active tauck central america tour or cruise.
we will do all that we can to secure rooms next to one another or  connecting when possible.
not included transportation to the tour departure point and from the tour  ending point is not included.
items too large to fit under the motor coach seat or on the overhead rack must be stored in the luggage bays beneath the motor coach, and may be inaccessible during daytime travel.
guests choosing to purchase tauck’s cancellation fee waiver will  incur cancellation penalties of$185 per person regardless of  cancellation date prior to tour departure date.
alaska tauck's hawaii features the finest oceanfront resorts on multiple islands for the ultimate hawaiian experience!
this means better value and a more relaxed and  pleasant experience for you.
in addition, tauck’s guest protection provides comprehensive travelers’ insurance and 24-hour emergency assistance.
viking ships and a folk museum depict early eras; medieval castles and well-preserved port towns illuminate the middle ages.
residents of puerto rico are eligible for some cancellation protection by purchasing tauck's cancellation fee waiver (see below).
little can compare to a small ship's approach in bonifacio, corsica... antiquities discovered in the gentle sicilian countryside...
if the child resides outside of the continental u.s., including hawaii and alaska, the backpack will be waiting on arrival at the first hotel on your itinerary.
there are limits to the amount of alcohol that can be a part of this exemption.
so you can charge your laptop while keeping it safe, plasma-screen tv in the bedroom and the bathroom and free bt openzone wireless internet access as well as a minibar, egyptian linens, and coffee and tea making facilities.
they give guests unique, behind-the-scenes access to places and people, combining in-depth sightseeing tracks with special tauck-only experiences.
antarctica china offers a dynamic feast of sights and sensations.
a transfer is included from london's heathrow airport to the royal horseguards.
where would you like to go?
willowed landscapes, tranquil gardens, majestic rivers, fabled monuments and imperial pavilions of red and gold stand as poignant symbols of an enduring and rich historical legacy.
london are just some of the many highlights of these ireland and great britain tours.
in general, you are not permitted to bring live plants, fresh fruits and other produce items into most countries.
a visit reveals a nation of many contrasts, from opulent palace hotels, shimmering white marbeled monuments like the taj mahal and ancient fairy-tale cities of richly-decorated courtyards, fountains and frescoed galleries... to streets brimming with old traditions.
hotel room charges will be added to the tour cost.
journals, binoculars and cameras are also great things for children to have with them to make the most of their adventure.
as your exciting london and paris tour continues this afternoon, join us on a bike ride through the royal parks of london, followed by a special treat tonight on drury lane in london’s west end theatre district... a performance ofthe wizard of oz!
tauck world discovery: south / mid usa western usa travel features diverse landscapes from painted canyons to inspiring national parks, ancient cliff dwellings, the pacific ocean, vineyards and chic cities.
explore tauck alaska explore all the united states destinations tauck world discovery:
transportation from the westin paris to the paris charles de gaulle or orly airports or the paris train station is also included when you check out of the hotel.
final documents, which may include airline tickets, when  applicable, are sent by first class mail upon receipt of final payment.
but you'll explore more than history today, as you embark on a speedboat adventure along the river thames... then ride 450 feet above the city in a glass pod – a private one, thanks to tauck bridges – on the celebrated london eye, the world's highest observation wheel!
currency and exchange rates - the currency in the united kingdom is the british pound and in france, it is the euro.
transportation to and from airports and train stations may be shared with other tauck guests.
airline security measures – if you are traveling from the u.s.,the u.s. transportation security administration’s (tsa) secure flight program requires that your name, as it appears on your domestic or international airline ticket, must match your name as it appears on the government-issued photo id (i.e., passport or driver’s license) that you present during security screening.
final documents, which may include airline tickets, when applicable, are sent by first class mail upon receipt of final payment.
get to know your fellow travelers at our welcome reception and dinner tonight.
triples are usually two-bedded rooms plus a rollaway cot and are not  recommended for comfort.
interest in extending your trip by staying in a tauck recommended  hotel before your trip begins or after it ends interest in our specially negotiated airfares.
major credit cards are widely accepted, as are travelers’ checks.
join tauck bridges for a fun family alpine vacation in the swiss, austrian and bavarian alps... with whitewater rafting, mountain biking, rock and rope climbing... cog railway, horse-drawn carriage and cable car rides... a ski-jump demonstration and more!
explore tauck iceland explore all the europe destinations tauck world discovery:
transportation from the westin paris to the paris charles de  gaulle or orly airports or the paris train station is also included when you  check out of the hotel.
new england so many choices – gracious antebellum plantations, colonial williamsburg, formal gardens, warm beaches, civil war battlefields, a victorian island, jazz in new orleans, a capital capitol...
louvre dinner at an authentic parisian brasserie airport transfers on arrival and departure as noted 14 meals (7 breakfasts, 3 lunches, 4 dinners); all gratuities to tauck  director, local guides & drivers; service charges, taxes, and porterage air travel & services
itinerary subject to change “more about the tauck difference something that inspired me was the greek gods’ sculptures (to learn more) and the montmartre painters (to never give up my love for the arts).
meals – most meals are included as specified in the itinerary.
dinner tonight is in a real london pub.
special requests we will be happy to advise hotels of any special requests, provided we receive them at time of booking.
countryside villages and bustling cities deftly combine time-honored traditions with the ever-quickening pace of today's modern times.
it assures a full refund of land tour costs received by tauck, except for the cost of the cancellation fee waiver and any extra fees resulting from partial room cancellation.
learn more about the patriots of boston, the whalers of nantucket, or the pilgrims at plymouth on our new england tours with accommodations in historic hotels and popular resorts.
to help expedite your booking, please have the following information ready before you call us: for reservations, call 866-636-6500 or contact your travel agent to book today!
recommended age: 8+ note: no departures of castles & kings:  london to paris are scheduled between mid-july and mid-august 2012 due to  the london 2012 summer olympic games tauck value includes a guided tour through the british museum and a spy walk private double-decker bus tour; a ride on the london eye in a private  capsule; and a thrilling speedboat ride on the river thames a bike ride adventure through the london royal parks and tickets to the wizard of oz passage aboard the high-speed eurostar train from london to paris guided visits to notre dame, the eiffel tower & montmartre a scavenger hunt and visit to the musée du
customs and tax-free shopping –each country visited has its own customs clearing process.
these items can be purchased in a store that specializes in travel products.
air conditioning – both hotels and the motor coaches are air-conditioned for your comfort.
rain falls evenly throughout the year in both cities; however, the relative humidity in paris is 10% higher than in london.
luggage  responsibility– although every effort is made to handle your  luggage carefully, we cannot be responsible, assume liability or accept claims  for loss or damage to luggage and personal effects due to breakage, theft, or  fair wear and tear through hotel, airline and group carrier handling.
make all the difference in an exceptional vacation and are hallmarks of our journeys showcasing regional food, wine and the art of living well.
please check for it in your email.
explore tauck spain & portugal explore all the europe destinations tauck world discovery:
guests choosing to purchase tauck’s guest protection will incur cancellation penalties of$240 per person regardless of cancellation date prior to tour departure date.
your tauck director is a  professional, fully trained employee of tauck.
all recovery costs, including the communication costs, are your  responsibility.
as a rule, if you are not a resident of the country (or of the country’s intergovernmental economic community, e.g., the european union) in which the purchase is made, you may be entitled to a vat refund and should inquire about the refund policy where you shop.
india an island nation of gentle beauty boasts an intriguing mix of ancient and present day, embracing a revolution of modern technology yet remaining staunchly immersed in age-old traditions and rituals.
stay at historic lodges inside the great national parks and great hotels in the heart of the cities.
explore tauck japan explore all the asia destinations tauck world discovery:
includingthe tauck jazz event in new orleans october 5 – 9, 2011.
your date-of-birth and gender information provided to the airline must also match your passport.
please contact your individual carrier for this information.
you will encounter cobblestone streets, narrow passageways, and some steep and winding staircases.
share thoughts, gain knowledge, and connect with the country’s deep cultural heritage – rich in historic architecture, music, art and latin and afro-cuban traditions.
this means better value and a more relaxed and pleasant experience for you.
check your travel protection details for covered expenses.
if you will not be covered under your current policy, we strongly suggest that you arrange for adequate coverage while on tour.
the  advantage of this waiver is that you may cancel regardless of reason, without  written notice.
for reservations, call 866-636-6500 or contact your travel  agent to book today!
we are not liable for, and do not assume responsibility or accept claims with regard to seat assignments, schedule changes, flight changes, cancellations, claims for a refund or reimbursement of airline ticket fees, or any other loss incurred by you for any reason whatsoever (including, without limitation to, bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or similar relief from creditors).
to view this tour’s reading list or to purchase a selection, please click on the following link:more details about this offer
the region is rich in colonial history, featuring quaint architecture, museums with costumed interpreters, and entertaining walking tours.
recently, airlines have adopted policies enforcing strict number, size and weight limits.
tauck bridges family travel takes you back in time with local experts who make history come alive at famous places... go on wildlife expeditions, safaris, historic walks... learn about local traditions and activities... and so much more on tauck bridges family travel adventures!tauck bridges family travel discover the world on guided land trips filled with in-depth cultural exploration in north and south america, europe, the middle east, asia, africa, australia and new zealand... connecting people and places with the promise of an inspirational travel experience that’s seamlessly choreographed.
explore tauck antarctica tauck world discovery:
if you are a citizen of another country traveling internationally,you should contact an embassy or consulate of the united kingdom and of france to determine what travel documentation is required.
reimbursements will be made according to original method of payment.
hotel rooms before and after tours– to avoid jet lag and possible flight delays, you may wish to make hotel arrangements for the nights preceding or following your tour.
if you make your air travel arrangements through us, please ensure that the name you provide us matches your name as shown on the identification you will use while traveling.
irons and ironing boards are available upon request.
explore tauck australia tauck world discovery:
each carrier and each airport has different rules regarding how early you must arrive for flight check in.
as a service, we will book additional nights for you on a  space-available basis using special rates only available through us.
many other countries also share this concern for children who travel without both parents.
please refer to the tauck travel protection productsection below for more information.
for safety and security purposes, at time of booking, room  accommodations for children under 18 year of age must be made in the same room  as a an accompanying adult; exceptions may be granted under certain  circumstances with parental consent.
it is also important to note that restrictions for luggage number, weight and size may vary with the same airline based on the class of service you select.
japan southeast asia is a feast for the senses – the vibrant colors, fragrance of incense and spices, sounds of daily life in the streets, and the taste of fabulous food.
personal expenses such as phone calls, room service,  alcoholic and other beverages not specifically included, laundry, dry cleaning,  airline excess luggage charges, vaccinations, visa fees and services, airport  arrival and departure taxes, individual train and airport transfers (when  applicable), and other optional or incidental extras are not included and may  be significant.
tauck travel protection is not discounted for children.
following is a list of recommended items to pack for your trip to london and paris: •casual daytime wear – shorts, slacks, long and short-sleeved shirts •an optional jacket and tie for men •casually elegant evening wear for ladies •sunglasses, sunscreen, hat •swimwear •gym wear •a light sweater or jacket for higher elevations or a breezy night •binoculars (7x50 preferably) •insect repellent •camera, lenses, batteries, memory cards and/or plenty of film •lightweight, comfortable, sturdy walking shoes that have already been broken-in •battery-operated travel alarm clock •rain poncho and collapsible umbrella •zipper-lock bags •daypack for camera equipment •sundries and toiletries that may be difficult to find en route •copies of your travel documents that should be secured in the safe in your hotel room while traveling children may want to consider bringing along pocket toys and games with a “sound off” button or portable radio/cd players with headphones for use on longer coach rides.
mediterranean nordic legends and viking tales come to life in norway, denmark, and sweden.
we recommend that you pack an adequate supply of your prescription medication in its original container to last through your entire journey, together with a copy of your doctor’s prescription (or a letter from your health-care provider on office stationery explaining that the medication has been prescribed for you), a list of the generic names of your medication, your travel documents and a change of clothing in your carry-on bag to avoid any inconvenience in the event that your flight or luggage is delayed.
– airfare may be purchased from us for travel originating in the united states.
iceland timeless treasures of a legendary land await you on tauck's italy tours.
tauck director – castles & kings: london to parisis conducted by a tauck director who remains with the group throughout the duration of the tour.
the tauck civil war event
there is usually an additional fee for these services.
explore tauck scandinavia, russia, & baltics explore all the europe destinations tauck world discovery:
triples are usually a  two-bedded room with a rollaway cot or a sofa bed; quadruples may be  accommodated in two separate rooms.
just yards from westminster and downing street in the historic heart of london, the royal horseguards was the headquarters of the british secret service during the first world war.
currency can be exchanged at the royal horseguards, london and the westin paris, but hotels may not provide a competitive rate.
traveler’s address(es) traveler’s phone number(s) emergency contact information: this would be a relative or friend whom we  could contact during the tour in the event of an emergency.
our air services can only be purchased in conjunction with a one of our tours.
deposit date upon your request, we will hold space  tentatively for you and give a “deposit due date,” by which a  deposit must be received or space is automatically released.
it is important for your own self-interest and protection that you make certain you have adequate insurance to cover these eventualities.
spend free time exploring on your own before joining us for our private, festive farewell dinner – a perfect way to end your family's extraordinary london and paris tour!
this waiver is not insurance; it does not cover airline penalties, luggage  damage, personal injury, or does not protect travel agent commissions.
ride a double-decker bus... the london eye in a private capsule... and a speedboat on the thames!
explore tauck eastern canada explore all the canada destinations tauck world discovery: eastern canada
fond memories of your london and paris tour will linger long after you return home.
tauck travel protection is not discounted for  children.
picture yourself ruling england from inside windsor castle... but don't wind up a "prisoner" in the tower of london.
newly decorated, stylishly appointed guest rooms represent a perfect balance between traditional parisian and contemporary design elements – reflecting the highest quality of handmade craftsmanship in every detail from the furnishings to the floral arrangements.
in paris, currency can be exchanged at banks, bureaux de change and some large hotels, though you will get a better exchange rate at the atms.
welcome to "merrie olde" england for the start of tauck bridges' enriching london and paris tour!
alaska cruises open your eyes and heart to the natural wonderland that surrounds you morning, noon, and night.
the amount  of any refund shall be reduced by any recoveries obtained by you from any third  parties.
tauck’s cancellation fee waiver should you have to cancel your tour for any reason, tauck’s  non-refundable cancellation fee waiver waives all cancellation fees outlined  (except in extreme circumstances*), provided we are notified of cancellation  before your tour departs.
you  have adequate insurance to cover these eventualities.
explore tauck great britain & ireland explore all the europe destinations tauck world discovery: great britain & ireland the name "iceland" belies the wondrous summertime landscapes you’ll explore during this 7-night cruise...
if you wish to spend additional nights, please consult extend your tripin the accommodations section above on this webpage and discuss it with your reservations sales consultant or travel agent when you book your tour.
no  options sold– your tauck director will assist you with  information on free-time activities based on honest opinion and guidance but  will not sell you anything.
tauck france tours explore colorful provence, loire chateaux, ancient abbeys, cobblestoned villages, bordeaux and côte du rhone wine regions, the chic bouleverds of paris, and more.
you or your booking agent will be advised of any change to this schedule.
let tauck reserve your flights traveling to europe with tauck ensures more than a memorable travel  experience; it also enables you to take advantage of additional “do it  for you” travel services that take the hassle out of arranging them  yourself!
any resultant added expense will be covered by us.
we regret that we cannot provide you with individual assistance for walking, dining or other personal needs.
all hotel accommodations, first class accommodations on the eurostar, motor coach transportation, sightseeing, admissions, porterage and the services of the tauck director, local guides and drivers are included.
travelers’ checks are generally not accepted; however if you do use them, they are best taken in british pounds to avoid additional charges.
we suggest that you dress for comfort and convenience with a wardrobe that is flexible and allows for layering.
if you are a resident of another country traveling internationally, please refer to your own country’s rules and regulations regarding customs and duty-free shopping to ensure compliance upon your return.
health – the castles & kings tour is relaxed and the pace is leisurely.
come along with us as we introduce you to the locals... think chefs, vintners, sommeliers and even nobility who make these tauck journeys delicious!food &
internet access is available as indicated below: the royal horseguards, london - complimentary wireless internet access in guest rooms the westin paris– high-speed access in rooms for a fee time zones – london is in the same time zone as coordinated universal time (or greenwich mean time); paris is 1 hour ahead.
child pricing - children less than 18 years of age must be booked in a room with at least one adult; exceptions may be granted under certain circumstances with parental consent.
when you embark on central and eastern europe travel days with tauck, you go far beyond traditional sights to discover the a deep and rich cultural persona.
the tour begins at 3:00 p.m. at the royal horseguards hotel, london on the first day of the tour.
personalized service, quality experience and inclusive value mean great value the world over.
although the quality may differ slightly from one hotel to another, our commitment to your comfort is unwavering.
the westin parisday 8 bid au revoir to paris as your journey concludesmeals b tauck bridges' family london to paris tour ends: paris.
the advantage of this waiver is that you may cancel regardless of reason, without written notice.
the royal horseguardsday 4 mummies at the british museum & a spy walkmeals b, l although two million years' worth of history and culture might be a little tough to see in one day, you'll get a taste of what the fascinating british museum has to offer on a guided tour of this amazing place – housing the world's most comprehensive collection of art and artifacts, from maps to mummies and more, in nearly two-and-a-half miles' worth of galleries.
as an added service, we can make flight arrangements for your  journey, if your travels originate in the united states, offering you a number  of welcome advantages.
back in paris after lunch at a café, discover the treasures of the musée du louvre on a fun-filled guided scavenger hunt tour with your family and new tauck bridges friends.
the price charged the remaining person is the new, higher price for the new accommodation.
train and airport transfers are  included for these extended stays as described above underinclusive prices .
take a bike ride through the royal parks, and stay stealthy on a spy walk.
a very fitting event for your last evening in your london hotel... where real spies of the british secret service roamed the halls back during world war i!
find yourself someplace new with culturious – active travel that's hands-on, and above all, fun.
many hotels do offer on-site babysitting services; however, babysitting services may not be available at all of our hotels.
we suggest that you: •pack at least one change of clothing in your carry-on bag •split your items between your suitcase and a traveling companion's suitcase •do not pack any vital medications or valuables in your checked luggage •confirm that your luggage is checked and tagged to your final destination at airport check-in •place your luggage claim tags in a secure place for your flight •file a claim for any missing luggage immediately before leaving the baggage claim area •secure a case number and contact information for follow-up communications •make certain that the airline has your onward itinerary your tauck director will assist you with airline and other carrier communications, but has no inside contacts to guarantee or expedite recovery of lost luggage.
the ultimate antarctica travel experience!
with tauck, you can: reserve your flights now; pay later when tickets are issued enjoy significant savings on business class airfare on select flights benefit from tauck’s lenient change and refund policies earn frequent flyer mileage on most airlines what's more, if you purchase tauck's guest protection, you'll receive a  refund should you need to cancel your flights due to covered reasons.
air services – airfare may be purchased through us for travel originating in the united states.
explore tauck new england explore all the united states destinations tauck world discovery:
due to heightened security regulations, certain items such as a metal nail file, pocketknife, cigarette lighter, or tweezers, and some liquid, gel, or aerosol items may not be permitted in your carry-on luggage.
we recommend that you make at least two photocopies of all the travel documents that you bring with you.
also, adults may want to bring along children's aspirin or medicines as a precaution, as access to these may be limited.
new for january 2012 – tauck's partnership with award-winning documentary filmmaker ken burns brings a new "ken burns event" – the tauck winter in yellowstone event in yellowstone national park – and a new "crafted by tauck and ken burns" culturious trip, wonderland: yellowstone in winter.
all recovery costs, including the communication costs, are your responsibility.
when contacting your bank, notify them of your travel dates so that they will anticipate charges being made outside of your hometown and do not suspend your cards for what may appear to them to be "suspicious" charges.
include copies of the photo page of your passport that contains the date of issuance, the date of expiration and your citizenship.
you will find a hair dryer and bathrobes located in your hotel guest room.
we urge you to check with your airline before traveling to determine current number, weight and size restrictions.
unique experiences, from a visit to a hill tribe village to an elephant trek, provide an in-depth look at this complex cultural mosaic.
if you are arriving into another local train station please  retain a receipt for the transfer and submit it to your tour director for  reimbursement.
*extreme circumstances: in the event of an act of god,  war (whether declared or undeclared), terrorism, accident, natural disaster,  outbreak of disease, or other event or circumstance beyond our control that  contributes to or results in cancellation rates above our historical  cancellation rates in the absence of such event or occurrence, tauck reserves  the right to issue a credit to you in lieu of a money-back refund, applicable  to a future tauck journey.
another great reason to buy your air from tauck!
your deposit is $600 per person.
this optional cancellation fee waiver must be requested at time of booking  and fee must be included with initial payment.
travel with children - age recommendations– children 3 years of age or older at the time of travel are welcome on this tauck bridges journey.
should you wish protection beyond our cancellation fee waiver,  your travel agent will recommend insurance companies.
discover a spectacular world of glaciers, wildlife and arctic adventurers on private tauck shore excursions and enjoy shipboard amenities that ensure your cruising comfort.
to book your trip call or call your local travel agent your free custom trip planner has been sent.
tauck's travel protection is available to all travelers, with the exception of residents of puerto rico.
our standard is to  provide the best available accommodations without sacrificing value.
final payment is due at tauck’s norwalk, ct office 60 days before departure.
information on everything  from weather to internet connections can be found below.
and the great yangtze river, home to some of china's most priceless cultural treasures, is poised to change the course of history in this 21st century.
medical protection – you are reimbursed for  covered medical expenses incurred in the event you become injured or ill during  your trip (including pre-existing conditions if purchased at time of deposit).
you should familiarize yourself with england and france’s specific required declarations before you travel.
while there is no definitive format or standard, click here to view a sample letter for guardians or one parent traveling with a child.
when dining on your own, you may have the opportunity to dine at an upscale restaurant, which may require men to dress in coat and tie, and women in more elegant eveningwear.
this is a land of jagged snow-capped peaks, glaciers, waterfalls, alpine lakes, and bighorn sheep.
france famous irish castle-hotels and manor houses, the dramatic cliffs of moher, pastoral cotswold landscapes, mystical loch lomond and of course vibrant
this trip to help expedite your booking, please have the following  information ready before you call us: tour name and departure date desired traveler name(s): please have first and last names as they appear on the  passport or driver’s license.
these western canada tours explore impressive national parks and stay in legendary mountain resorts, with unique ways to sightsee including ice explorer, floatplane, nostalgic train, ferry steamer, jet boat, or ski gondola.
many countries levy value added taxes (vat) on consumer goods and services.
2012 march 2012 april 2012 may 2012 june 2012 july 2012 august 2012 september 2012 october 2012 november 2012 december 2012 tauck alaska vacations combine sightseeing by land, ship, floatplane, paddlewheel boat, and vintage railway to fully experience the 49th state.
most modern sightseeing motor coaches offer limited space for numerous or larger items.
check into your hotel, right next to the tuileries garden, then join us for dinner at an authentic parisian brasserie where you will experience a real taste of life in paris!
quadruple accommodations are not available for four persons 18 and older.
although not expected, prices on this website may be modified due to unexpected significant external factors not forecast at the time of publication.
tour cancellation fees are waived regardless of reason, without written notice, and tauck will refund land tour cost.
fly home anytime; a transfer is included from the westin paris to paris charles de gaulle airport.
two-bedded rooms are reserved in most hotels.
guests choosing to purchase tauck’s guest protection will incur  cancellation penalties of$240 per person regardless of  cancellation date prior to tour departure date.
although oversize bags and wheeled, carry-on luggage are popular for airline travel, they are often not convenient or appropriate for motor coach travel or for many on-tour flights.
this optional guest protection must be requested at time of booking and fee  must be included with initial payment.
travel from the sun-kissed hilltowns of tuscany to the stunning amalfi coast, enjoying tauck's do-it-all-for-you service, fine accommodations and special experiences you can't get on your own, like private, after-hours visits to the vatican museums and the sistine chapel – hallmarks of the best italy tours.
this waiver is not insurance; it does not cover airline penalties, luggage damage, personal injury, or does not protect travel agent commissions.
cell phones - we understand and appreciate the value of instant communication when we travel; it keeps us in touch with friends and family, and it's a reassurance in the event of an emergency.
need to know print all
holiday and museum closures– museum visits and personal shopping time may be disrupted due to unforeseen circumstances or the many state, religious and civic holidays locally observed.
if you have to cancel tauck’s guest protection and cancellation fee waiver guests booking a tauck journey have the option of purchasing cancellation  protection from tauck in the event they need to cancel their trip after making  their reservations.
any bookings without full payment at this time may be subject to cancellation without notice.
the guest protection plan waives cancellation fees outlined, provided we are notified of cancellation before your tour departs.
explore tauck mediterranean explore all the europe destinations tauck world discovery:
foreign currency can be exchanged at exchange bureaus and large hotels, however better exchange rates are likely to be found at banks.
the cost is$185 per person.
explore tauck china explore all the asia destinations tauck world discovery:
tauck's south america travel adventures ignite the senses and satisfy the soul.
babysitting ― our journeys are designed for adults and children to share the wonder of discovery together.
get the latest news and offers from tauck delivered to your email.*denoted required field tauck bridges london and paris tour is an exciting journey through the annals of time, where different chapters of history come to life around every corner.
therefore, we strongly suggest that you bring along a letter from both parents (including other pertinent documents as cited above) authorizing emergency medical treatment for their child.
luggage restrictions - checked luggage – general while it is common for airlines to allow passengers to check more than one piece of luggage per person, space constraints during your tauck journey make it difficult to accommodate extra luggage.
59-8 days before departure
you'll go off-the-beaten-path as you explore the tropical rainforests, dry forests, freshwater wetlands, islands, beaches and lush jungles of costa rica and panama, where ecological biodiversity, exotic wildlife, and cultural national treasures are found.
itinerary changes and price flexibility– we pledge to make every effort to operate all tours as advertised.
tauck's mid-america / southern usa trips are travel at its best.
electrical current – the electrical current in both the united kingdom and france is 230 v, 50 hz, ac.
we ask that you limit your checked luggage to one average size suitcase per person.
explore tauck central & eastern europe explore all the europe destinations tauck world discovery:
in russia, fortresses, palaces, and treasures of the czars contrast with the kremlin, red square, and an infamous bunker.
if you have to cancel cancellations fees – regardless of reason, cancellations result in costly charges from our travel and hotel providers covering penalties and fees incurred by canceling confirmed bookings.
they  include joining instructions, hotel lists, tour itinerary, clothing  suggestions, luggage tags and other pertinent information.
in addition, tauck’s guest protection provides comprehensive  travelers’ insurance and 24-hour emergency assistance.
please provide  their name and phone number(s).
savor the specialjoie de vivre atmosphere of hilltop montmartre, where poets, writers and artists have practiced their crafts for centuries; a guided walking tour may reveal them at work.
cuba culturious is a new kind of guided, active travel experience that takes intimate small groups of like-minded people on adventures that immerse in the destinations they're visiting.
in the unlikely event of a medical emergency, a medical facility will require permission from the child’s parents to provide treatment.
bridges family trips family fyi: did you know that rome's colosseum held about the same number of spectators as the original yankee stadium?an after-hours guided visit to the vatican museums... demonstrations of pizza-making in florence and mask-making in venice... tours of roman catacombs and orvieto's tunnels... and multiple-night stays in florence, venice and rome highlight tauck bridges ultimate italy tour!
luggage protection – you are reimbursed for lost,  stolen, delayed or damaged luggage.
it is a cultural treat sunrise to sunset.
in the united kingdom, the plug type is “g” and uses three rectangular blades, in france the plug type is “e” and uses two round pins and a receptacle for a round male grounding pin.
tauck events include: the tauck civil war event , may 20 – 24 and october 14 – 18 in washington, dc; and run for the roses: the kentucky derby, may 2 – 6 in lexington, kentucky.
should you wish protection beyond our cancellation fee waiver, your travel agent will recommend insurance companies.
ken burns american journeys ken burns tauck has introduced guests to natural phenomena the world over, from magnificent natural parks to the mysteries of deserts, the ecology of the rainforest, the amazing migratory animals of africa, the evolutionary wonders of the galápagos… explore the natural world with us on these journeys that provide an insider’s look at their contribution to earth’s amazing natural world.
tauck’s guest protection under tauck’s all-inclusive guest protection, you can cancel your tour for any reason up to the day before departure and receive a money-back refund (except in extreme circumstances*) on the land tour cost.
with joint new zealand and australia travel agendas, see glaciers, geysers, fiords, outback, reefs, koalas, kiwis, historic districts, notable architecture, and native culture.
personal expenses such as phone calls, room service, alcoholic and other beverages not specifically included, laundry, dry cleaning, airline excess luggage charges, vaccinations, visa fees and services, airport arrival and departure taxes, individual train and airport transfers (when applicable), and other optional or incidental extras are not included and may be significant.
transportation to the tour departure point and from the tour ending point is not included.
(the tax rate may be higher for luxury items and lower for basic goods.)
photography and video on tour – occasionally, we will use photographs and/or video taken by fellow guests or your tauck director on your tour for print, internet and other media promotional purposes.
the id name must also match any additional airline data, such as frequent-flyer information.
interest in purchasing tauck’s travel protection product (see below).
priceless masterpieces hang in the state hermitage museum; ballerinas twirl at the ballet; and onion-topped buildings command the skyline.
new for 2011 – tauck's partnership with award-winning documentary filmmaker ken burns introduces filmed narratives on select trips ("stories by ken burns"), a new civil war themed tour (most hallowed ground) and new "ken burns events"
if you have a medical condition which might limit your participation in activities, please consult your physician for pre-departure health advice and notify us as soon as possible, if you have not already done so.
luggage exceeding maximum restrictions may require expensive overage fees, frustrating and hurried re-packing at the ticket counter, or even risk being left behind.
please note that longer stays abroad for any purpose may require additional travel documentation.
the tour ends at check-out time at the westin paris on the last day of the tour.
explore tauck south east asia explore all the asia destinations tauck world discovery: south east asia choose among two-week and three-week down under tours that cover distances primarily by cruise ship or private charter flights, but also include jet boat, tramcar, helicopter, catamaran and sky gondola rides.
any savings realized by these changes will be refunded to you.
children 11 and under discount $100 children under 18 must be booked in a room with at least one adult; exceptions may be granted under certain circumstances with parental consent.
the royal horseguardsday 2 the tower, the thames – and the london eyemeals b, l, d the tower of london is steeped in history and intrigue, having served as both a castle and a prison over the past thousand or so years.
if you are a resident of another country traveling internationally, please contact an embassy or consulate of the united kingdom and of france to determine what vaccination(s) may be required for your travel.
but now you can meet face-to-face with cuban residents from different professions – artists, musicians, students, educators, farmers, artisans, entrepreneurs, community leaders and more – through tauck’s people-to-people educational exchange travel to cuba.
valet laundry and dry cleaning services are also available for a fee.
it is  important for your own self-interest and protection that you make certain
at least one guest in the traveling party must be 21 years of age or older in order to make a reservation.
we reserve the right to terminate the tour of any person who is abusive of others or whose behavior disrupts the tour.
the cost is$240 per person.
many carriers require that checked luggage not exceed a weight of 50 lbs (22.7 kg) per piece.
we are not responsible for the disruption of travel caused by the improper documentation of any guest, including children traveling without both parents.
explore tauck italy explore all the europe destinations tauck world discovery:
bridges family trips family fyi: did you know that about 3,000 euros are tossed into rome's trevi fountain every day?
safety and welfare responsibility ― we welcome the participation of child travelers on our exciting excursions.
cost is not refundable under any circumstances.
if there is no second parent with legal claims to the child (parent deceased, sole custody, etc.), other relevant paperwork, such as a court decision, birth certificate naming only one parent, or a death certificate, will be useful.
with tauck, you can: what's more, if you purchase tauck's guest protection, you'll receive a refund should you need to cancel your flights due to covered reasons.
by traveling with us, you release tauck, inc. and our partners of all liability for any risks and/or injuries to the child with whom you are traveling.
scandinavia, russia, & baltics step inside the grand moorish palace of the alhambra, gaze at treasures – inside and out – at the world renowned guggenheim museum bilbao, follow pilgrim’s footsteps on the path of st. james to santiago de compostela or stroll the unesco world heritage sites of sintra and evora, and you will understand the historical, cultural and religious passion throughout these lands and carefully woven into a portugal or spain tour.
get a unique look at japan, yesterday and today.
all hotel  accommodations, first class accommodations on the eurostar, motor coach  transportation, sightseeing, admissions, porterage and the services of the  tauck director, local guides and drivers are included.
please be sure to attach your tauck luggage tag to your suitcase before leaving home!
please contact your cell phone carrier to determine if your service extends to england and france.
they feature "insider" insights you simply can't get on your own... sparkling gala evenings... lectures by noted experts delving into diverse topics and current events... themed sightseeing trips with local guides who take you to must-see places off- and on-the-beaten track... and multiple days at sought-after city-center hotels or inside-the-park lodges.
to determine current time in major cities around the world, we suggest you log on to thetimeanddate.com by clickinghere.
please check with your health insurance provider to determine whether you are covered while traveling.
it assures a full refund of land  tour costs received by tauck, except for the cost of the cancellation fee  waiver and any extra fees resulting from partial room cancellation.
please advise your tauck director on tour if you or the children traveling with you have any serious allergies.
lost luggage is an unfortunate possibility in today's world of airline  travel.
tauck culturious active tauck bridges family travel adventures are real-life discoveries that enrich, engaging you and your family with the wonders of the world as only tauck bridges can do.
you may wish to consult the website,luggagelimits.com, by clickinghere.
inclusive prices tour prices are per person in u.s. dollars.
china one of the world's most diverse countries, india is an incredible array of landscapes, languages, cultures and lifestyles as well as a fascinating complex of beliefs and customs.
this information may be obtained from a country’s consulate or embassy.
for the most part, however, the amount of walking you do at the various sites and towns is at your discretion.
travel along jordan’s historic king’s highway from the shores of the dead sea to astounding petra.
live la dolce vita with your family on a one-week italy family vacation, from an after-hours tour of the vatican museums to rome's colosseum to amalfi coast villages to touring magical capri by convertible car and more... plus a taste ofgelato ... and pizza you made yourself!
as a service, we will book additional nights for you on a space-available basis using special rates only available through us.
partial room cancellation – a person canceling or leaving a tour while a roommate remains constitutes a cancellation of one type of accommodation and rebooking of another type of accommodation.
from king’s tut’s tomb to victoria falls, the sphinx to a pride of lions in the masai mara, traditional tea at a private home in a moroccan berber village to a wine-pairing dinner in the cape winelands, these tauck journeys and safaris are the best in africa tours today!explore tauck africa tauck world discovery:
mediterranean travel with tauck includes land journeys and cruises along the adriatic and aegean seas, combining the relaxation of sailing with in-depth discovery via private excursions to the historical ruins of ephesus, carthage, pompeii and segesta and cultural meccas along the spanish, french, italian and turkish rivieras.
special travel documentation for children authorization for travel
while cbp may not ask to see this documentation, if they do ask, and you do not have it, you may be detained until the circumstances of the child traveling without both parents can be fully assessed.
take in pearl harbor, waikiki beach, an old whaling town, a working ranch, and a coffee farm, with luaus, cruises, and plenty of free time to enjoy each island to its fullest!explore tauck hawaii explore all the united states destinations tauck world discovery:
sightsee by floatplane, jeep, trolley, horseback, sky gondola, narrow gauge railroad, jet boat...
meet the beefeaters who watch over it and the famous ravens that live within its walls; see the bloody tower and the british empire's priceless crown jewels.
generally, daytime temperatures in the spring and fall range from 50 to 65°f (10 to 18°c) and in summer, 65 to 75°f (18 to 24°c).
travel document requirements - if you are a u.s. citizen traveling internationally, you will need a passport valid for six months beyond the completion of your tauck journey for entry into the united kingdom and france; however, you do not need a visa for either country for the short duration of this tour.
no options sold– your tauck director will assist you with information on free-time activities based on honest opinion and guidance but will not sell you anything.
luggage responsibility– although every effort is made to handle your luggage carefully, we cannot be responsible, assume liability or accept claims for loss or damage to luggage and personal effects due to breakage, theft, or fair wear and tear through hotel, airline and group carrier handling.
the additional expense will  be added to your tour cost.
although  the quality may differ slightly from one hotel to another, our commitment to  your comfort is unwavering.
to ensure smooth travel, we require you to comply with the travel regulations of each country visited.
children who are u.s. citizens must have a passport valid for at least six months beyond the completion of the journey.
enjoy views from the world’s tallest freestanding structure, or from the top of coastal bluffs along the cabot trail.
click here to download our complete description of coverage.
as a courtesy to others, we ask that guests refrain from cell phone usage during motor coach travel, group functions, sightseeing and when the tauck director is addressing the group as a whole.
coverage for the following elements is provided by berkelycare, ltd. and is subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions of the policy: this optional guest protection must be requested at time of booking and fee must be included with initial payment.
step into the 17th century at the opulent palace of versailles... discover the louvre's treasures on a scavenger hunt tour...
upon arrival, a paris tour introduces you to landmark city sights including the eiffel tower and the champs-elysées.
the westin parisday 7 notre dame's gargoyles and montmartre's artistsmeals b, d since the 12th century, the fabled cathedral of notre dame – built on the site of a roman temple – has witnessed, and often been a part of, some of parisian history's most momentous events.
from kauai’s rainforests to maui’s waterfalls and the big island’s dramatic volcanic landscapes, we show why each island is unique.
tauck reservation sales counselors are available: monday through friday 6 am - 8 pm saturday 9 am - 5 pm sunday  12 pm - 5 pm (eastern time) some additional questions you might have about booking this  trip:
recommended age: 8+ note: no departures of castles & kings: london to paris are scheduled between mid-july and mid-august 2012 due to the london 2012 summer olympic games let tauck reserve your flights traveling to europe with tauck ensures more than a memorable travel experience; it also enables you to take advantage of additional “do it for you” travel services that take the hassle out of arranging them yourself!
nature nature tauck events are exclusive once-in-a-lifetime travel experiences.
please refer to the tauck travel protection productsection below for more information.
each guest room features the heavenly bed®, air conditioning, television with satellite channels, in-room movies, voicemail, safe, minibar, hair dryer, bathrobes, slippers and deluxe bath amenities.
please call your airline prior to departure to obtain current information on non-permissible carry-on items and recommended airport check-in times.
each child 17 and under will be sent a complimentary backpack from tauck bridges!
hotel rooms  before and after tours– to avoid jet lag and possible flight  delays, you may wish to make hotel arrangements for the nights preceding or  following your tour.
transportation from london heathrow and gatwick airports or st. pancras or waterloo train stations to the royal horseguards is included, regardless of the time you check in to the hotel, provided you have furnished us with accurate flight arrival information at least two weeks prior to the start of the tour.
if you are arriving into another local train station please retain a receipt for the transfer and submit it to your tour director for reimbursement.