expatriate, eurostar, channel tunnel traveling by air has always given the people of this planet the ability to hop from one continent to another in a matter of hours.
racing through the french countryside and negotiating the paris suburbs, we arrive two minutes early.
there are of course alternative  ways to travel, but to some, seem a little outdated.
the  distance from london heathrow to the the centre of london is approximately 15  miles, and is pretty much the same from paris (cdg) to the centre of paris.
now this service seems likely to be the major opposition to the low cost airlines flying from the uk to europe, especially from airports in the london area.
we arrived at the check in point at london waterloo international at just after 14:00.
we had looked at flying from heathrow with british airways and their cheapest fare was ?9 per person.
in no time at all, we exit the tunnel to  a glorious blue sky in france.
another 30 to 40 minutes more to add to the journey, not to mention the cost.
the train system, certainly in the uk can leave a lot to be desired  at times, but this has been due to the continued under investment from  successive governments.
for just ?9 return, per person, our total spend  so far had totaled ?20.
many years ago, the train was the lifeblood of countries and economies.
810 many years ago, the train was the lifeblood of countries and economies.
the  train system, certainly in the uk can leave a lot to be desired at times, but  this has been due to the continued under investment from successive governments.
we had taken the opportunity to book the tickets for the eurostar in good  time and received a great deal.
since the opening of the channel tunnel in the late 90′s, the  eurostar train system linking the uk to mainline europe has seen progressive  growth, despite earlier faltering’s.
we had taken the opportunity to book the tickets for the eurostar in good time and received a great deal.
you can use these tags:             « simple tips for safe flying
after initial security and passport controls, we took our seats at 14:55.
for just ?9 return, per person, our total spend so far had totaled ?20.
after traveling with eurostar, we say the king is dead, long live the king.
after making a stop at calais, we have about an hour and twenty minutes  before we reach our final destination.
the airliner and the airlines have been the predominant choice for the majority of business people and holidaymaker’s alike, looking for quick, efficient and nowadays, a cheap way to travel.
this is due to be slashed to  around 2 hours and 15 minutes once the remainder of the uk high speed rail link  is commissioned in 2007.
there is no doubt whatsoever, airline travel has not only changed the way we travel, but it has also impacted on our daily lives.
racing through the french countryside  and negotiating the paris suburbs, we arrive two minutes early.
the total journey time from the centre of london to the centre of paris had  taken us a measly 2 hours and 40 minutes (approx).
expatriate, eurostar, channel tunnel traveling by air has always given the people of this planet the ability to hop  from one continent to another in a matter of hours.
after traveling  with eurostar, we say the king is dead, long live the king.
we arrived at the check in point at london waterloo international at just  after 14:00.
airline domination from london to paris and europe has finally had it’s day.
that seems really quick especially if you need to be in paris for a business meeting.
we had traveled by tube to  get to waterloo station, which took about 25 minutes, involving 1 change at  leicester square at a cost of ?
it seems a little dated on the english side as regards the state of the railway, but after about 35 minutes into the journey, we turn off the old victorian railway onto the brand new, recently commissioned uk high speed line and race along the kent countryside at speeds up to 300kmh (186 mph).
eurostar or  the plane?
it really was a  great journey on eurostar, and now we are at the very heart of paris.
you can leave a response, or  trackback from your own site.
website (optional) xhtml:
those people who had decided to take the plane would now be fighting for taxis or taking the rer train system into city centre.
once the line is opened, eurostar will be moving homes and will no longer operate from london waterloo, transferring to london st.pancras.
the train system, certainly in the uk can leave a lot to be desired at times, but this has been due to the continued under investment from successive governments.
leave a reply click here to  cancel reply.
once the line is opened, eurostar will be moving homes  and will no longer operate from london waterloo, transferring to london  st.pancras.
we had looked at flying from heathrow with british airways and their  cheapest fare was ?
blue sky air flight travel agency – ohio contact us monday, august 01st, 2011 /
in no time at all, we exit the tunnel to a glorious blue sky in france.
it doesn’t seem long before we are going to say goodbye to england and the announcement informs us that the transit time in the channel tunnel will be approximately twenty minutes.
the aero plane has certainly made a big impact on society.
now this service seems likely to be  the major opposition to the low cost airlines flying from the uk to europe,  especially from airports in the london area.
now consider these points.
typically, a flight from london heathrow to paris charles de gaul (cdg)  airport takes just under 1 hour.
the journey out of london takes you through the suburbs of brixton and then finally out into the countryside.
category: air-flight news you can follow any  responses to this entry through therss 2.0 feed.
two eurostar tickets at ?9, and two underground tickets at ?
strawberries in the middle of winter, to packages sent the same day from the other side of the world.
the journey out of london takes you through the suburbs of brixton and then  finally out into the countryside.
the total journey time from the centre of london to the centre of paris had taken us a measly 2 hours and 40 minutes (approx).
you can use these tags:                « simple tips for safe flying losing my virginity –  to virgin atlantic premium economy » contact us
two eurostar tickets at ?9, and two underground tickets  at ?
those  people who had decided to take the plane would now be fighting for taxis or  taking the rer train system into city centre.
the aero plane laid claim to the king of transportation.
not much difference in the price, but the travel to heathrow and also from paris (cdg) would probably equate to the same again.
the train we were due to travel on departed at 15:11, calling at  calais and paris gare de nord (the north station).
it doesn’t seem long before we are going to say goodbye to england  and the announcement informs us that the transit time in the channel tunnel  will be approximately twenty minutes.
we had traveled by tube to get to waterloo station, which took about 25 minutes, involving 1 change at leicester square at a cost of ?
there are of course alternative ways to travel, but to some, seem a little outdated.
it really was a great journey on eurostar, and now we are at the very heart of paris.
the distance from london heathrow to the the centre of london is approximately 15 miles, and is pretty much the same from paris (cdg) to the centre of paris.
airline domination  from london to paris and europe has finally had it’s day.
typically, a flight from london heathrow to paris charles de gaul (cdg) airport takes just under 1 hour.
not much difference in the price, but the  travel to heathrow and also from paris (cdg) would probably equate to the same  again.
there is no doubt  whatsoever, airline travel has not only changed the way we travel, but it has  also impacted on our daily lives.
since the opening of the channel tunnel in the late 90′s, the eurostar train system linking the uk to mainline europe has seen progressive growth, despite earlier faltering’s.
name (required) e-mail (will not be published , required)
at exactly 15:11 the train glided effortlessly out of the station with the view  of the magnificent london eye visible to our right.
at exactly 15:11 the train glided effortlessly out of the station with the view of the magnificent london eye visible to our right.
the aero plane has certainly made a big impact on  society.
the train we were due to travel on departed at 15:11, calling at calais and paris gare de nord (the north station).
it seems a little dated on the english side  as regards the state of the railway, but after about 35 minutes into the  journey, we turn off the old victorian railway onto the brand new, recently  commissioned uk high speed line and race along the kent countryside at speeds  up to 300kmh (186 mph).
the airliner and the airlines have been the predominant choice for the  majority of business people and holidaymaker’s alike, looking for quick,  efficient and nowadays, a cheap way to travel.
that seems really quick especially if you need  to be in paris for a business meeting.
heathrow is not actually in the centre of london, nor is paris (cdg).
name (required) e-mail (will not be published , required)
eurostar or the plane?
with that said, that 1 hour doesn’t seem so appealing after all.
after making a stop at calais, we have about an hour and twenty minutes before we reach our final destination.
another 30 to 40 minutes more to  add to the journey, not to mention the cost.
london heathrow is not actually in the centre of london, nor is paris (cdg).
this is due to be slashed to around 2 hours and 15 minutes once the remainder of the uk high speed rail link is commissioned in 2007.
air flight  consultant 810 many years ago, the train was the lifeblood of countries and  economies.
strawberries in the middle of winter, to packages sent the same day from  the other side of the world.