or bundle the two together and save even more with our wide  range of dublin holidays, custom tailored just for you.
search for other hotels - hotels in new york - hotels in las vegas - hotels in london - hotels in paris - hotels in rome - hotels in orlando - hotels in dubai - hotels in barcelona - hotels in amsterdam - hotels in berlin other flight destinations: search for other flight destinations - flights to new york - flights to london - flights to las vegas - flights to rome - flights to amsterdam - flights to paris - flights to orlando - flights to barcelona - flights to dubai - flights to istanbul cities in ireland: see all destinations in ireland - holidays in cork - holidays in galway - holidays in limerick - holidays in saggart - holidays in sligo - holidays in malahide - holidays in letterkenny - holidays in shannon - holidays in leixlip - holidays in donegal other cities in europe: see all destinations in europe - london holidays - paris holidays - rome holidays - barcelona holidays - amsterdam holidays - berlin holidays - venice holidays - prague holidays - edinburgh holidays - madrid holidays flights: hotels: general: - amsterdam city centre hotels| - cheap hotels hong kong| - sun palace cancun| - compare hotels| - chiang mai hotels| - hotel dublin| - hotels in new york| - hotels canary wharf| - copthorne hotel slough| - britannia hotel wolverhampton| - swans nest| - hotels gran canaria| - premier le reve hotel & spa| - st helier hotels| - eden amsterdam american hotel| - grand hotel eastbourne| - holiday village costa del sol| - cheap hotels in cardiff city centre| - birmingham hotels| - dubai hotels| - paramount hotel dublin| - hotels las vegas| - sheraton dubai creek| - cheap hotels in edinburgh holidays: - air travel| - cheap hotels| - cheap holidays to new york| - cheap flight more travel options: - phoenix holidays| - trip to new york| - holidays las vegas - city breaks| - last minute deals| - winter sun| - eurostar deals| - ski holidays| - disneyland paris breaks| - hotels site map partner services: expedia partners: - add a hotel| - become an affiliate| - travel agencies - hotels.com| - venere| - hotwire| - egencia business travel - about us| - advertising| - press office| - inside expedia| - jobs| - privacy policy| - terms of use| - general terms and conditions for booking| - site map global sites: - holidays created by you on expedia.co.uk which include air travel are protected by the civil aviation authority under atol number 5788.
we always update our holiday offers, so check back often to see how much you can save on a trip to dublin.
we always update our holiday offers, so check back  often to see how much you can save on a trip to dublin.
leaving from and going to field must be different
[ sign in ] - my itineraries - travel alerts - my account - customer support - feedback - - online check-in - cancel my hotel booking - - home - flights - hotels - car hire - flight + hotel - deals - city breaks - ski holidays - package holidays - activities - travel insurance expedia.co.uk > europe > ireland > dublin dublin holidays search for flight + hotel flight + hotel search sorry,we had a problem.
choose from a selection of deals on flights to dublin and dublin hotels.
without a reserved seat (in an adult's lap) infant(s) in a reserved seat (car seat required)
© 2012, expedia, inc.
sign up book a holiday to dublin discover the highlights of dublin with city  breaks from expedia:
register to receive our newsletter: please confirm you have read  our privacy policy.
all you have to do is enjoy yourself.
book a flight + hotel together and save more please complete the highlighted fields below the check-out date must occur after the check-in date.
or bundle the two together and save even more with our wide range of dublin holidays, custom tailored just for you.
leaving from: going to: departing: time: 00:00 01:00 02:00 03:00 04:00 05:00 06:00 07:00 08:00 09:00 10:00 11:00 12:00 13:00 14:00 15:00 16:00 17:00 18:00 19:00 20:00 21:00 22:00 23:00 anytime morning afternoon evening returning: time: 00:00 01:00 02:00 03:00 04:00 05:00 06:00 07:00 08:00 09:00 10:00 11:00 12:00 13:00 14:00 15:00 16:00 17:00 18:00 19:00 20:00 21:00 22:00 23:00
search need help booking? call 0330 123 1235 visit customer support best deals delivered register to receive our newsletter: please confirm you have read our privacy policy.
book your dublin holiday with expedia and you can relax and enjoy yourself, knowing that you have booked the best holiday at the lowest price.
please provide the ages of children below your partial check-in and check-out dates must fall within your arrival and departure dates.
if you need  additional assistance booking your holiday in dublin, expedia customer service  representatives are available 24 hours a day to help you with any questions you  may have.
read more hide find dublin city breaks & holidays flights
anytime morning afternoon evening i only need a hotel for part of my trip check-in: check-out: rooms: 1 2 3 discounts may be offered to children of certain ages.
stunning architecture, great museums, top restaurants and shops - there is so much to explore in dublin.
and what’s even better, we not only bring you discounted trips to dublin, we also offer all the extras that make your holiday to dublin perfect: easy airport transfers, sightseeing tours, shopping & restaurant vouchers, tickets for events & shows, activities and much, much more.
all you have to do is  enjoy yourself.
the check-in or check-out date is prior to the current date.
whether you are looking for the  bustle of dublin’s city centre or the peace and quiet of an urban  retreat, we help you find the right holiday package.
book your dublin holiday with expedia and you can relax and enjoy  yourself, knowing that you have booked the best holiday at the lowest price.
we would like your feedback, please fill in our survey
whether you are looking for the bustle of dublin’s city centre or the peace and quiet of an urban retreat, we help you find the right holiday package.
please adjust the number of travellers for your search.
children under 2 years old can travel in laps or seats: infant(s)
choose from a selection of deals on flights to dublin and  dublin hotels.
children must not be allowed to travel without either a senior or adult.
please change the date date format should be dd/mm/yy
please refer to the tour operator's terms and conditions for details of their atol protection.
for all tour operator holidays booked through expedia.co.uk you will be protected by the relevant tour operator's atol.
- expedia inc. is an appointed representative of mondial assistance (uk) limited which is authorised and regulated by the financial services authority (fsa).
simply fill in your details above and build the perfect holiday package to dublin that suits your personal needs.
mondial assistance fsa registration number is 311909.
sign up book a holiday to dublin discover the highlights of dublin with city breaks from expedia:
stunning architecture, great museums, top restaurants and  shops - there is so much to explore in dublin.
simply fill in your details above  and build the perfect holiday package to dublin that suits your personal needs.
read more hide find dublin city breaks & holidays flights hotels cars activities trips popular areas of dublin landmarks/attractions - a - guinness storehouse - b - national gallery of ireland at merrion square - c - national museum of ireland - archaeology and history - d - the spire - e - trinity college attractions in dublin: - hotels near collins barracks - hotels near dalkey island - hotels near four courts - hotels near gaiety theatre - hotels near iveagh gardens - hotels near national basketball arena - hotels near st. stephen's green - hotels near the convention centre dublin - hotels near the wright venue - hotels near tolka park other hotel destinations:
and what’s even  better, we not only bring you discounted trips to dublin, we also offer all the  extras that make your holiday to dublin perfect: easy airport transfers,  sightseeing tours, shopping & restaurant vouchers, tickets for events &  shows, activities and much, much more.
please review your dates.
fsa authorisation can be checked on the fsa register atwww.fsa.gov.uk/register/ - expedia, inc., is not responsible for content on external web sites.
it is this and our best price guarantee that make expedia a great place to find  your city break in dublin.
we are only able to book between 1 and 6 travellers.
it is this and our best price guarantee that make expedia a great place to find your city break in dublin.
- welcome - already a member?
if you need additional assistance booking your holiday in dublin, expedia customer service representatives are available 24 hours a day to help you with any questions you may have.