offensive or off-topic comments will not be posted.
"it can get pretty complicated," said the veteran electrician inside the airplane's electronics bay.
pressurized to 3,000 pounds per square inch (psi), the hydraulics power the flight control surfaces, landing gear, brakes and steering systems.
only corporate stories rss only commercial stories rss only defense stories go behind the scenes as boeing technicians fire up the advanced systems onboard the newest 747
boeing employee information hotline at 1-800-899-6431skip to: page content | footer(site information) all archived stories » your friends name: your friends email: rss all stories rss
while the 747-8 retains the familiar façade of the iconic 747, a suite of new technologies is embedded inside, all of which need power to function.
this milestone is a reflection of the focus and hard work of our engineers, mechanics and suppliers.
for example, the intercontinental features a more powerful flight  management computer, the option of dual electronic flight bags, and a new wing  with control services that are fly-by-wire.
pressurized to 3,000 pounds per square inch (psi), the hydraulics  power the flight control surfaces, landing gear, brakes and steering systems.
in a small room next to the lower cargo hold, beneath where first-class  passengers would sit, boeing technician al swenson checked the maze of wires,  circuits and buttons that make up the nerve center of the new 747-8  intercontinental.
" "we had to cover every base and make sure it was lined up  perfectly."
the many hours swenson and his team spent pouring over the circuitry paid  off when mechanics connected the 747-8 to an external power cart.
" "we had to cover every base and make sure it was lined up perfectly."
diversity | global corporate citizenship | environment | government operations | videos | images copyright © 1995 - boeing.
" many functional tests are head but passing the power
"we had to cover every base and make sure it was lined up perfectly," he said.
joining the 1st 747-8 intercontinental: related content: 1st 747-8 intercontinental takes shape: master player for  feature page - duplicate this player for individual business unit pages,  features, etc.
last updated: november 5, 2010 | comments (2) posted on nov. 10, 2010 11:30 am ct
to power those and other systems, 133 miles (214 km) of wires snake through the airplane.
"everything is tripled and quadrupled redundant with a lot of systems backing up each other.
he and his team will repeat the same process for the next 747-8 that comes down the production line.
"the  airplane's systems are now live.
he and his team will repeat the same  process for the next 747-8 that comes down the production line.
the many hours swenson and his team spent pouring over the circuitry paid off when mechanics connected the 747-8 to an external power cart.
posted on dec. 2, 2010 11:15 am ct name*: email*: phone: location: we welcome your comments.
" swenson and his team had to ensure the main circuits were wired properly  in order to energize and activate the systems onboard the intercontinental for  the first time.
for al swenson, who has brought many airplanes to life, the milestone  brings relief more than anything else.
"the airplane's systems are now live.
the tests pave the way for the airplane to power up.
the pneumatic system enables the airplane to operate the environmental control  systems and the leading-edge flaps.
"this  accomplishment is a key milestone in validating the design, installation and  functionality of the electrical, hydraulic and pneumatic systems.
the tests pave the way for the airplane  to power up.
site terms | privacy policy | contact us | faq
" swenson and his team had to ensure the main circuits were wired properly in order to energize and activate the systems onboard the intercontinental for the first time.
by submitting a comment to boeing.com, you agree to our site terms and privacy policy, and to having your name displayed with your comment.
"everything is tripled and  quadrupled redundant with a lot of systems backing up each other.
last updated: november 5, 2010 | comments (2)
al swenson, boeing technician the mechanics also activated the airplane's hydraulic and pneumatic  systems.
however all comments are moderated and may not post immediately.
boeing/bernard choi boeing technician al swenson checks the circuitry inside the electronics  bay of the 1st 747-8 intercontinental.
boeing/bernard choi the 1st 747-8 intercontinental in final assembly in boeing's factory in everett, wash. "we are very methodical in ensuring the integrity of the airplane's systems," said todd zarfos, vice president of 747 engineering.
if one these wires is not installed correctly, a system may not function properly.
all or part of your comment may be posted or cited.
your name and personal information will not be used for any other purpose, and we will not publish your e-mail address.
the flight deck display and other systems sparkled to life.
the pneumatic system enables the airplane to operate the environmental control systems and the leading-edge flaps.
the flight  deck display and other systems sparkled to life.
if one these wires is not installed correctly, a system  may not function properly.
"we had to cover every base and make sure it was lined up  perfectly," he said.
"this is a critical step in the assembly process for the new 747-8 intercontinental," elizabeth lund, 747 deputy program manager.
boeing/bernard choi to power the advanced 747-8 intercontinental, 133 miles (214 km) of wires snake through the airplane.
meanwhile, a new cabin services system, including led lights, will make the 747-8 intercontinental a more comfortable space for passengers.
"this is a critical step in the assembly process for the new 747-8  intercontinental," elizabeth lund, 747 deputy program manager.
onboard the newest 747 1st 747-8 intercontinental comes to life
"it can get pretty complicated," said the veteran electrician  inside the airplane's electronics bay.
this milestone is a reflection of the focus  and hard work of our engineers, mechanics and suppliers.
to power those and other systems, 133 miles (214 km) of wires snake  through the airplane.
"this accomplishment is a key milestone in validating the design, installation and functionality of the electrical, hydraulic and pneumatic systems.
we will not treat any comments you submit as confidential information.
for example, the intercontinental features a more powerful flight management computer, the option of dual electronic flight bags, and a new wing with control services that are fly-by-wire.
boeing/bernard choi to power the advanced 747-8 intercontinental, 133 miles (214 km) of wires  snake through the airplane.
for al swenson, who has brought many airplanes to life, the milestone brings relief more than anything else.
in a small room next to the lower cargo hold, beneath where first-class passengers would sit, boeing technician al swenson checked the maze of wires, circuits and buttons that make up the nerve center of the new 747-8 intercontinental. boeing/bernard choi boeing technician al swenson checks the circuitry inside the electronics bay of the 1st 747-8 intercontinental.
al swenson, boeing technician the mechanics also activated the airplane's hydraulic and pneumatic systems.
meanwhile, a new cabin services system, including led lights, will make  the 747-8 intercontinental a more comfortable space for passengers.
go behind the scenes as boeing technicians fire up the advanced systems
on sequence brings the 747-8 one step closer to entering service, which is scheduled for late 2011 following the flight test program.
" many functional tests are head but passing the power on sequence brings  the 747-8 one step closer to entering service, which is scheduled for late 2011  following the flight test program.
boeing/bernard choi the 1st 747-8 intercontinental in final assembly in boeing's factory in  everett, wash. "we are very methodical in ensuring the integrity of the airplane's  systems," said todd zarfos, vice president of 747 engineering.
while the 747-8 retains the familiar façade of the iconic 747, a  suite of new technologies is embedded inside, all of which need power to  function.
please do not submit comments that contain any confidential information belonging to anyone else.