reviews and opinions do not necessarily represent those of landings, its personnel and employees.
ornge choppers can't fly in the us (miss) bomb detonated at boracay's main airport (nwsg)
i am not opposed to that.
i  have great difficulty with this line of thought --- much less its  implementation.
royal jet flies the flag (corp) chattanooga airport's new corporate flight center secures leed ... (wast) werner enterprises to participate in the j.p. morgan aviation ... (wreb)
otherwise, crew and passenger deaths will continue to mount  as they are doing currently while aircraft and aircraft system bugs slam  aircraft into the ground, without regard for human life or culture.
we know the next set of steps, coming  too soon perhaps, will bring pilotless aircraft from gate to gate.
in the wake of the recent china airbus crash there has developed a major,  ongoing argument regarding the relative safety of airbus vrs.
(c.f., the delta airbus "drivers" who sat and chatted while the auto-throttles backed off until the aircraft surprised them and their passengers with a full - blown stall and the loss of some 3,000ft. over florida?
i am not asking for a step backward, just a closer look at current and future options of a trend already well - established.
t.d. ponder atp bhm 10,000 hrs.+ pic back to hangar talk note: reviews and opinions do not necessarily represent those of  landings, its personnel and employees.
ch: aviation (more->)
i am fully aware that many military aircraft have computer control devices that would otherwise make the aircraft unflyable (i.e., by hand) under certain mission flight conditions.
i am  not a luddite and i am not opposed to progress.
it is ironic that, facts notwithstanding, the china crash has many "earmarks" of pilot error, although that is yet to be determined.
by: t. d. ponder e-mail address: tdponder@worldnet.att.net scary new-generation aircraft
airlines flying boeing products also should consider if they wish to park a particular model based on its "mystery" crash history.
more canyon air tours backed (asun) when work is a labor of love (boul)
the debate has quickly turned into an international bickering contest with accusations flying across the atlantic ocean at the speed of light.
it is my opinion that no matter what a pilot's culture (the aircraft should not care!), when he/she straps into the seat of any airplane, she/he should not have to worry if he/she is going to fly it or if some competent or otherwise non- pilot software writer's work is going to jump in from time totime to have the airplane make a critical decision.
i am talking about zero system/autopilot surprises of a lethal  nature, and a pilot's having direct control capability.
but  why should lives be lost in this transition?
airlines flying boeing  products also should consider if they wish to park a particular model based on  its "mystery" crash history.
delivers best option for us business jets to ... (mark) govt yet to clear dues, aviation firms refuse choppers, badals ... (epsi)
us airways, clt working to improve flight paths over city (ctyc)
exxon mobil corporation could face ryanair lawsuit (stoc)
but for now, are pilots to be incapable of having the aircraft "feel" even when they are pseudo - flying new - generation aircraft?
are we almost there now?
we know the next set of steps, coming too soon perhaps, will bring pilotless aircraft from gate to gate.
as for the airbus aircraft, it seems that the newer - generation "baby  buses" are the ones being flown by video games.
this argument is a matter of symptoms only, since the aircraft involved merely represent a small factor in a larger problem.
they need to find a  parking space until the bugs/systems are corrected!
somewhere a compromise has to be reached in the new - generation aircraft whereby a pilot, for now at least, knows he/she will have direct, total and undisputable control capability of the aircraft in all phases of flight.
i am not opposed to  that.
e-mail address:  tdponder@worldnet.att.net scary new-generation aircraft
i have great difficulty with this line of thought --- much less its implementation.
jetstar airlines appoints new director general (dlys) lahood to ask ups, fedex to follow pilot fatigue rule (nwsd) urva: funding to become estonian air's main issue (nwsb)
it is my opinion that no matter what a  pilot's culture (the aircraft should not care!), when he/she straps into the  seat of any airplane, she/he should not have to worry if he/she is going to fly  it or if some competent or otherwise non- pilot software writer's work is going  to jump in from time totime to have the airplane make a critical decision.
i am fully aware that many military aircraft  have computer control devices that would otherwise make the aircraft unflyable  (i.e., by hand) under certain mission flight conditions.
aircraft designers, manufacturers and computer programmers must not be allowed to usurp this capability for now.
they need to find a parking space until the bugs/systems are corrected!
the point is the same either way.
(c.f., the delta airbus  "drivers" who sat and chatted while the auto-throttles backed off  until the aircraft surprised them and their passengers with a full - blown  stall and the loss of some 3,000ft. over florida?
but for now,  are pilots to be incapable of having the aircraft "feel" even when  they are pseudo - flying new - generation aircraft?
ife services showcases in flight entertainment solutions at ... (brad)
as for the airbus aircraft, it seems that the newer - generation "baby buses" are the ones being flown by video games.
it will not happen, of course.
aircraft designers,  manufacturers and computer programmers must not be allowed to usurp this  capability for now.
don't bother to yell that  this particlar craft was not a newer, fbw version.
progress, however, must include  safety as a mainstay, and not reduced it to a "necessary and, ergo,  acceptable" human loss level.
it is ironic that, facts notwithstanding, the china crash has many  "earmarks" of pilot error, although that is yet to be determined.
are we moving into an era wherein pilots are going to become only guardians, when occasionally permitted, over computers otherwise totally flying the aircraft?
there is  no doubt pilots, as we know them today, will become obsolete in the future.
are we moving into an era wherein pilots are going to become only  guardians, when occasionally permitted, over computers otherwise totally flying  the aircraft?
4:03 pm retired military helicopter crash (ctlt) recent military tragedies in our area (fox1) sensor systems, inc.
btw, why does delta no longer fly the airbus?)
i am talking about zero system/autopilot surprises of a lethal nature, and a pilot's having direct control capability.
text s&p summary: aar corp. (rtrs) 'build new runways now' ryanair boss (abtn) us faa looks to raise commercial pilot qualifications (comp)
should we set a level of human loss as aircraft systems and designs change?
don't bother to yell that this particlar craft was not a newer, fbw version.
the debate has quickly turned  into an international bickering contest with accusations flying across the  atlantic ocean at the speed of light.
aviation's roots firmly planted in state (avia) general dynamics corporation : jet aviation acquires enterprise ...
progress, however, must include safety as a mainstay, and not reduced it to a "necessary and, ergo, acceptable" human loss level.
commercial banks and ecas eye brazil airports opportunities (mgzp) meggitt provides avionics for chinese y 8 transport (flig) ch: incidents (more->)
but why should lives be lost in this transition?
ship passengers to be flown to rome (tmso) faa proposes new pilot qualifications (nws_)
us airlines post lower earnings in 2011 (ft) china sinopec completes country's first biofuel for aviation (crvw)
i am not a luddite and i am not opposed to progress.
in the wake of the recent china airbus crash there has developed a major, ongoing argument regarding the relative safety of airbus vrs.
otherwise, crew and passenger deaths will continue to mount as they are doing currently while aircraft and aircraft system bugs slam aircraft into the ground, without regard for human life or culture.
we are not asking banks to lend to kingfisher: ajit singh (tdyb) spicejet to receive rs 100 crore from promoters (trav) emirates airline receives 1000th boeing 777 (nwsg) kingfisher airlines not to get govt's help, reiterates ajit singh (tdyi) wyne barber (tstr)
proposed pilot rules long overdue (cbs) us proposes tougher airline pilot qualifications (cpst) commuter jet lands safely without nose gear in us (faci) us coast guard helicopter crashes off alabama coast (trnc) sponsored links: airplanes for sale - free 90-day photo ads - aviationclassifieds.com - ads automatically display on dozens of sites
commuter jet lands safely without nose gear in nj (hrdn) helicopter goes down in coolidge (myfo)
there is no doubt pilots, as we know them today, will become obsolete in the future.
serious fun in the air at al bateen (tn)
t.d. ponder atp bhm 10,000 hrs.+ pic back to hangar talk note: reviews and opinions do not necessarily represent those of landings, its personnel and employees.
nor do i expect airline pilots to hand - fly their craft at high altitude  enroute (while wearing their caps crooked and sweating), because that is  neither feasible nor desirable.
nor do i expect airline pilots to hand - fly their craft at high altitude enroute (while wearing their caps crooked and sweating), because that is neither feasible nor desirable.
this argument is a matter of symptoms only, since the aircraft involved merely  represent a small factor in a larger problem.
is there no other way available?
the point is the same either  way.
somewhere a compromise has to be reached in the new - generation aircraft  whereby a pilot, for now at least, knows he/she will have direct, total and  undisputable control capability of the aircraft in all phases of flight.
i am not asking for a step backward, just a  closer look at current and future options of a trend already well -  established.