it has been a long time now since airbus claimed the neo developement only costs one billion euros, and the engine oems are paying for it.
if the engines share the same leap core technology the fan is the difference.
http://www.flightglobal.com/news/articles/boeing-may-again-look-to-clean-sheet-narrowbody-leahy-365524/ keesje, the -1b core will be different from the -1a
you are commenting using your twitter account.
a new wing could also address the question on wingtip devices, although you don’t need a new wing to solve that.
in stark contrast, airbus has firm commitments for 1,200+ a320neos, be- cause both the p&w and the ge engines on that airplane have defined performance guarantees on the a320neo.
maybe boeing will put pw1524g on the 737-6 max with a cropped fan at 68,5 inch diameter.
like all salesman, he lives by only one golden rule, “if you cannot dazzle ‘em with brillance, then baffle ‘em with b^#$%!t”.
the leap, and gtf are of such a next generation of engine, i’m not convinced the old rule of thumb applies anymore.
i know airbus isn’t sitting on their hands either.
but a new taller mlg means additional weight.
join 1,033 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
investing too much in the 737 while giving this decade to airbus and new entrants.
although boeing’s lauren penning told the puget sound business journal there isn’t a “team” at boeing working on this prospect, reports out of aspire aviation (now orient insight), aeroturbopower, airline economics and last month’s istat meeting continue to create buzz on this topic.
boeing now has experience with designing, building, installing, and fielding composet wings and airplanes, via the b-787.
that will be an interesting concept, as some ‘experts’ say composets don’t scale down very well and on a scale, like the b-737, doesn’t reduce that much weight.
leahy commented on the max last december.
”here is another one, the continuing analysis of the pratt & whitney gtf for the boeing 737 max.
how much taller would boeing be willing to go?
just look at the happily unexpected performance of the b-747-8f airframe if you like.
luckely airlines have smart, skilled engineers and fleet managers too, and lawyers.
still you have order them, spend billions, choose.
as long as there are no guarantees from snecma for their engine on the 737max, there are no real contracts for that airplane, only commitments subject to performance guarantees from boeing and snecma!
airinsight, boeing, cfm, pratt &  whitney > another story that won’t die another story that won’t die april 16, 2012 leave a comment go to comments we’ve recently tagged a few items “a story that won’t  die.
doesn’t mean they will ever do any of those things, doesn’t mean they won’t.
i am confident boeing will meet, or exceed its goal for the max in comparison to the ng.
i think if boeing decides to make the gtf a second engine option on the max, that may be a game changer for the nsa.
the cfm leap-1b engine will be a good engine.
so, what are we really talking about here for the b-737max?
we now know the leap-1b engine will have a 68.4″ fan, but if boeing has to make other changes to the airframe to fit a 71″ or 72″ fan gtf on the b-737, then cfm might just as well let the leap-1b grow a little.
as far as i know the upcoming high speed wind tunnel and low speed wind tunnel testing to be done in england and the us in a few months is the third round of both types of testing.
the airinsight piece was published in limited circulation two  weeks ago.
so if the neo has a 12-14% sfc improvement, the engine for the max should deliver 5% less.
although boeing’s lauren penning told the puget sound business  journal there isn’t a “team” at boeing working on this  prospect, reports out of aspire aviation (now orient insight), aeroturbopower,  airline economics and last month’s istat meeting continue to create buzz  on this topic.
enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
but a rumored study isn’t evidence of anything one way or another.
better not overpromise.
it is his job to push airbus and talk down boeing.
we’ve recently tagged a few items “a story that won’t die.
a new wing and wingbox will address the shorter mlg ‘problem’ too.
i have been always in favor of a new design (read my articlehttp://www.engineerstoolkit.net/what-we-fly-what-we-will-fly).
you never know how good a new aircraft will be.
speaking of john, he is a salesman, you know that keesje.
if the gtf adds a few % extra for the neo, boeing has an issue.
notify me of new posts via email.
the nsa will eventually come.
cfmi has said nothing as to which version of the leap engines will have the lowest fsfc.
but every new change boeing puts into the max to compete, or beat the neo just pushes the nsa further into the future.
i am sure boeing is also doing a lot of computer testing to refine the configueration before the wind tunnel tests are accomplished.
boeing is under no oblagation to keep you updated on the developement of any of its products, just as eads is under no obligation to keep me informed of their products (but i wish john would stoip calling asking me for advice, lol).
cancel connecting to %s notify me of follow-up comments via email.
they should take advantage of that painful learning process if it is at all possible with the b-737max, and b-777x, the next two major boeing developement programs.
kc, when you look at the to-do-list for respectively the neo and the max, it’s not really that much of a surprise is it, that when compared to the r&d costs for the max, the costs for the neo r&d comes in at a bargain.
are we now talking about a new boeing composet wing and mostly composet wingbox?
if boeing would be pushed to do a new wing, wingbox, landing gear on top of a new engine, tail, fly by wire..
they did that with something in mind, not just a simple reduction in drag (they could have done that at anytime in recent years).
i was kidding, of course.
no one knows, yet, if a scaled down gtf will be as good, or better, yet.
boeing has already redesigned the very tail of the airplane, aft of the rudder and elevators.
rule of thumb says a .5 % gain for every inch fan diameter.
with an airframe older than the a320 (and with less groung clearance), boeing will have to catch all 0.001′s to compete.
boeing knows what they want with the nsa.
that is a lot of testing for a design that is still a few years from being frozen.
just like boeing, airbus doesn’t want to come out with the second best product.
as long as the landing gear is not giving the clearance for a large diameter turbofan the engine will have to compensate it.
sph fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: you are commenting using your wordpress.com account.
but all three will be about the same technology level (the -1b core may be slightly advanced sin ce it is the latest version of the leap engine).
i guess the next bottlenecks are the dated cockpit, cargo capability, heritage systems.
the airinsight piece was published in limited circulation two weeks ago.
you are commenting using your facebook account.
making the nlg taller is less of an engineering challange.
the max is already going to have some kind of fbw, and the tail surface changes would depend heaverily on any wing changes, since the engines are about the same thrust family as the current ng’s cfm-56-7b engines.
as the two manufacturers have no competition and years of backlog, why spend more?
to be consistently denied until a solution is in place.
join 1,033 other followers get every new post delivered to your inbox.
if we define “team” as two people, and “study” as billed at least one hour to in the calendar year, i wouldn’t be surprised to learn that boeing is studying a dc-3/c-47neo, restarting the sst project, running off a few hundred more stearman model 75s for the collector market, etc.
boeing seems to be playing coy on most of the b-737max configueration, only talking about the obvious, and a few public announced wind tunnel tests here and there.