"this latest slip in the program schedule has once again cost boeing financially, taking an additional $274 million charge in its fourth-quarter (2007) results.
nearly to a man, the players are well below their career averages.
""pat's experience and proven record managing demanding and complex programs will allow him to build on the 787 team's success.
what mcnerney's "other answer" to the 747-8 could be is unclear.
"as we made adjustments to the latest delivery schedule, our customers had the opportunity to take production airplanes that better suited their business needs for a variety of reasons, including schedule," said boeing.
"today's virtual rollout is the culmination of many months of effort by thousands of team members at boeing and its 787 partners," said bair.
estimates typically exclude one-time charges, but analysts had factored the impact of the strike into their forecasts.
tuesday, june 23, 2009 by dominic gates seattle times aerospace reporter
and the discipline to drive towards a common goal.
sitting in my office on a rare snowy day, he  confessed that douglas was envious of boeing's scheduling prowess.
mei yuanmei, a manager of boeing china said these problems are normal in the process of optimizing the production and the company has found out causes and effective solutions to solve them.
the current economic slump is further compounding difficulties for our customers, who urgently need the newest and most efficient jetliners to help them succeed in today’s dynamic and competitive environment.
"boeing is likely to remain under pressure until they can hit at least one of their public milestones on the program," said myles walton at oppenheimer & co.
skill dilution at a level  where it can do the most harm.
boeing hints at possible reassessment of 747-8 boeing has hinted that it might have to rethink its slow-selling and delayed 747-8 programme, amid the continuing failure to land a second airline for the passenger model, combined with a slowdown in demand for cargo aircraft.
just perhaps,  the "team-player / yes-man / group-think culture has arrived at its  inevitable conclusion - people afraid to stand up and tell the boss something  he doesn't want to hear.
from the days before they bragged about "working together," and painted that on the side of the airplanes.
asked if that meant delamination of the composite material, fancher didn't specify exactly but hinted that visible damage was apparent.
"obviously, we have applied a judgement that says we have a very competitive airplane here that has already got a good start on orders," says mcnerney.
does the fact that three people have been fired in recent weeks, while no player has lost his job, send a mixed message about accountability to the players?
boeing attempted to defuse the credibility issue by withdrawing delivery targets for any 787s beyond the first one, now scheduled for early 2009.
boeing schedules were sacrosanct.
clearly, they are not  on-top of the situation.
boeing is evaluating the specific impact of this delay on customer delivery dates and will provide customers with updated schedules once completed.
p.r. flacks are putting out press releases that even to them,  must be getting tiresome.
they've been sitting on the boeing field ramp for six years.
"oh!, i thought - if you put it in those terms."
alas, where does one find those guys now??
among the highlights: an emphasis on developing leaders within the company.
the uw football team just went winless for the entire season.
thursday, the shoe dropped on john mclaren.
" headquarters is  too removed from the action, and what's worse, the seattle operating units   do their best (from what i'm told) to keep them in the dark.
drawings were released to suppliers as  "digital data sets" - an all-new concept.
it showed general custer  on his horse surrounded by members of his  cavalry.
watching power point presentations.
much of this was unappreciated at the time, and perhaps is still  unappreciated.
this isn't connexions.
"boeing's arrogant image must go, stonecipher says
customers have also begun to react.
on june 4, bavasi locked the players out of their postgame spread and made them sit at their lockers, while mclaren stood before reporters and delivered a contrived, expletive-filled rant.
with continual progress meetings.
so mcd people were brought north and integrated into high positions while joint teams worked out merging the cultures.
new structural materials (titanium), new fuels, new engines, new engine oil, new hydraulic fluids, new aerodynamics, new computerized ram air inlet systems, new crew escape systems.
today's genius can be tomorrow's bum.
we'd probably save a ton of money.
boeing now says it will not fly until at least june this year, as it grapples with unfinished work from suppliers and bolt shortages.
chicago (dow jones)--boeing co.'s (ba) announcement tuesday of another holdup on its new 787 dreamliner didn't sit well with investors already wary of problems surrounding the company's defense programs and pension-cost headwind.
condit and stonecipher made  sure the company we bought for $16 billion didn't feel they were playing second  fiddle to a bunch of cocky know-it-alls in seattle.
all of us are solutions-oriented  and solutions-driven.
however, given the two years of delays leading up to this last-minute showstopper, such assurances have a big credibility problem.
by daniel lovering ap manufacturing writer boeing co., the world's second-largest airplane maker, swung to a surprise fourth-quarter loss, hurt by a labor strike that disrupted deliveries.
**************************** as you know, we currently have a record jetliner backlog, while at the same time we have encountered challenges in our airplane development programs and within our supply chain.
it didn't happen by accident and there were no computers, no emails and no employee surveys.
a company  the size of boeing moves with glacial speed.
ray reports directly to me, and his new organization combines supplier management, fabrication, propulsion systems and the manufacturing and quality functional organization.
none of us in the retiree corps are at all  happy with the state of the company today.
it was the legacy handed down to us  from those who went before - 50 years of greatness.
creating a matrix organizational structure that leads to confusion over responsibilities and problem no. 1 3.
"we look forward to receiving the second dreamlifter from egat in taiwan early next month.
winners, some people would call them........
while the 787 is the focus of attention, boeing has also suffered setbacks on the defense side of its business, which accounts for about half of its $60 billion in annual revenue.
five years ago, a preview copy of chief financial officer mike sears' book, "soaring through turbulence," arrived in our newsroom about the same time he was fired in a defense contracting scandal.
it used to be "over budget, and  they yell at you - bust a schedule and you get fired.
when the a380 program slipped for the  second or third time, the top dogs got fired.
the lack of a new schedule is also an issue.
maybe we'll know in a couple of years.
boeing is going backwards.
i'm sure of this much; its much, much,  worse than you can read in the papers.
mr. mcnerney replied very quickly, albeit  somewhat tepidly, acknowledgeing our concerns and the problems we have  outlined.
fancher said that will involve "a relatively small number of parts and a relatively simple modification.
almost every new program winds up hugely over budget and enormously behind schedule.
actually, quite the opposite.
those are hopes and predictions, though, not assertions supported at the moment by the record.
when the inevitable problems arise, they are  surfaced, elevated, worked.
tying compensation policy to long-term growth in value instead of short-term stock-price gains.
where are your tracking meetings?
an  airplane is built to a master schedule.
you could  put a milestone on the chart for balloons, buttons, and  hotdogs for the  roll-out and the first flight.
somebody needs to get  fired.
those estimates typically exclude one-time items.
"we deeply regret the impact these delays will have on our customers,....." we are unable to manage our programs.
these comparisons are not acceptable !!!
scottscott comment: "reflect great depth and strength in our management team " hmmmmmm.....
" pelekoudas emphasized that winning as many of this season's remaining 90 games as possible is a high priority, though armstrong acknowledged the odds of getting back into playoff contention were "practically zilch."
the stated reason was to avoid  forcing the local operating units to constantly squirm under the direct glare  of the head shed guys.
i don't want, nor do others, to be seen as sitting on the sidelines bitching without a solution.
it had no engineering mockup.
he was right, of course.
by bill virgin p-i columnist what is it about boeing executives and the timing of books by and about them?
he asked if he could come and  visit to discuss "production  problems" being experienced in  long beach.
engineering tracked their off-board drawing  releases through the eswr system.
credibility test boeing is starting to feel the heat.
china people's daily boeing china issued a statement on international finance news to deny the rumor that the chicago-based company will delay its 787 planes delivery.
only bad things will result.
he (wilson) responded: `and rightly so!'
the  1995 "early out" was, in retrospect, a hemorrhage of enormous  talent.
"the progress we made in many areas of boeing during 2008 was outweighed by the impact of the strike and our performance on some key development programs," jim mcnerney, boeing's chairman, president and chief executive, said in a statement.
good bean counters - people like harold haynes - needed to be on the sidelines keeping the engineers honest.
sports teams at every level understand what performance is, and what success means.
the company's 2009 financial forecast assumes stable deliveries over the next few years of commercial airplanes that are in production.
but i think they always know that that shoe is always there.
product definition, marketing, sales, design, tooling,  manufacture, supplier management, testing, delivery, and service.
does this quote from the seattle times in march 2007 sound like general custer?
bill b., one of my many correspondents, put it succinctly:bill b., one of my many correspondents, put it succinctly: when i came to boeing 40 years ago, it was "kick ass, take names, build planes", now it is "sit down, hold hands, build plans" boeing hasn't been tending to their knitting for a long time, and the chickens are coming home to roost.
the first delivery was originally scheduled for the end of 2010.
the exchange rate of the euro has plunged, creating a huge easing of the monetary burden that has been mercilessly pressuring airbus financials.
this is not about personalities.
getting flat spots on the tires.
the dog ate my  homework' isnot acceptable!
that would be --   if  not acceptable -- at least somewhat understandable.
the b-47 was designed, built and  flown in 24 months from contract signing.
we don't want to get nailed down by the media, and our  customers.
many of these people are at director, vp, and gm levels.
but their problems were in producing the customer's airplanes, not in designing, testing, and certifying the basic airplane.
boeing recently said it plans to cut about 4,500 positions from its commercial aircraft business as a result of the worsening market conditions.
the number of people actually making the move was miniscule.
carolyn has been a driving force behind the company’s successful implementation of lean production techniques.
the new schedule reflects the impact of disruption caused by the recent machinists' strike along with the requirement to replace certain fasteners in early production airplanes.
yes, you can be  really smart, but you need to know what questions to ask.
you don't absolutely have to be a techie (bill allen  wasn't), but then you need some really good techies working for you, people you  can trust.
shanahan moves from vice president, missile defense systems at boeing integrated defense systems, and succeeds mike bair, who will become vice president business strategy and marketing for commercial airplanes, replacing mike cave, whose move to a position at boeing corporate offices was announced earlier today.
all the functions contribute to the building of the schedule, and all sign off.
a  program must be managed.
yes, boeing is in the new paradigm.
included in the preparations for first flight, shanahan said, are finalizing and incorporating remaining engineering changes and completing systems testing, qualifications and certification.
yvonne leach, a spokeswoman for the 787 program, said"this is a huge,  complex project, and that means the assessment is pretty complicated as  well,"  adding that "the assessment involved talking with  suppliers and evaluating work to be done by boeing.
the first 747 was  built while the factory buildings were built around it.
yes, you can be really smart, but you need to know what questions to ask.
analysts say toyoda faces enormous challenges.
getting caught in this storm, at this time, is entirely boeing's doing - all of the above programs should be producing product and revenue streams at this very time.
but given the complexity and necessary secrecy of the program, boeing is struggling to point to concrete achievements that are moving the plane along.
"he knows how to deliver results, understands our customers and their requirements, and has the leadership skills to get the job done.
reflective of society, where there are no failing grades in the seattle public schools, where everyone gets a diploma, where little league games are played without scores so as not to upset the players, and with exams that have "no wrong answers."
suppliers i was asked - do you still believe this global-supply setup was a  good idea?
bob, its a  very tough situation and as such, calls for tough measures.
and you could order the catering two years ahead of time without fear.
"we hadn't shown any improvement for the past couple of months.
and the reasons for this  situation seemed to mostly resonate along the points i have try to make  above.
but in november, deliveries of the first 747-8f were pushed back by at least six months to the third quarter of 2010, and of the 747-8 by at least four months to the second quarter of 2011.
looking ahead, boeing expects per-share earnings of $5.05 to $5.35 for 2009, short of the $5.68 forecast by analysts.
boeing has lost "the touch."
check the resumes and  education of the top guys - the bios are on the boeing web site.
still, the aerospace company has orders for a record 3,700 planes.
the latest delay caps a remarkable six months of unraveling for boeing's 787 program.
suppliers are necessary, and not a 'necessary evil' either.
this is permeating  almost all of the current programs.
as  bill conway, the management guru i was good friends   with, used to  say - "this business that being a good manager is  all that's needed  is nonsense.
the program is going to be 10  years old, $1 billion dollars over budget (all boeing money), and they talk  about "success."  sports teams at every level understand what  performance is, and what success means.
so mcd people were brought north and integrated into  high positions while joint teams  worked out merging the cultures.
adding to the delay's impact is uncertainty: boeing said it will be "several weeks" before it will even come up with a new schedule.
despite their claims otherwise, they have clearly lost their  management skills.
people were smart, worked hard, - often off the clock.
aviation week & space technology mar 23 , 2009 , p. 12joseph c. anselmo washington aerospace and defense companies are beginning to disclose their executive compensation for 2008, andthough the industry’s investors have lost a lot of money some of its top executives aren’t faring too poorly.
like the car companies and mortgage brokers, the hand writing is on the wall, and has been for a long time, and the unraveling, it seems, always comes, and always occurs faster than expected.
its commercial aircraft business expects to deliver between 480 and 485 airplanes this year.
these times call for old "bull of the woods" types like sessions or buckley who will just not tolerate late engineering, shortages, schedule slippage, etc.
environmental, health and safety (ehs) performance:• lowest lost work day case rate in site history ross r. bogue
maybe those words need to be spoken again.
a gleaming shell of the first plane was triumphantly paraded in front of 15,000 employees and customers in july 2007, amid confident forecasts the first test flight would be in august or september.
in november, boeing further delayed the first test flight and delivery of its much-anticipated 787 jetliner, the world's first large commercial airplane made mostly from carbon-fiber composites, blaming the strike and lingering production problems.
progress  against the schedule is tracked at all levels continuously.
conclusions it takes us longer to modify a 767 into a freighter, than it took to design, build and certify the 767.
" see newspaper article below.
"he looks up and down the chain of potential suppliers, and if he sees that someone else can do a job better than boeing, he will outsource the job so that boeing can focus on doing what it does best and deliver the best product to customers."
now obviously if we ever got to a point where we didn't, we'd have to work with our customers to come up with another answer."
to hear mike bair tell it, the biggest problem with the new 787  dreamliner manufacturing schedule has been the olive trees.
this would require the renegotiation of lufthansa's launch order and compensation.
this is not acceptable, and some people need to be held accountable  - maybe get fired!
boeing chief executive scott carson said that "structural modifications like these are not uncommon in the development of new airplanes," and called the fix "a limited and localized structural reinforcement (that) is quite manageable."
so boeing had to make technical improvement and carry out test again, which would result in the delay of 787 dreamliners delivery originally scheduled in 2008.
engineering is messed up.
it's not enough to be smart, sit in the meetings, and think you're "learning the business."
what i described to him was the above paragraph.
they wound up in the  unique predicament of having a certified airplane, but unable to deliver  product.
when the a380 program slipped for the second or third time, the top dogs got fired.
pat shanahan is named vice president and general manager of a restructured airplane programs organization.
what  you'll find is, going back 15 years, or more,  - a lot of people began  moving into high positions without much experience in the particular  discipline.
"this is why we came to work for boeing," he added, "to create new airplanes that bring new levels of performance to our customers and new levels of comfort and convenience to the passengers of the world.
engineers found a structural defect that dictates "a need to reinforce an area within the side-of-body section of the aircraft," the company said.
"toyota is raising the flag," said yasuaki iwamoto, auto analyst at okasan securities co. in tokyo.
for many of the partners, the simulations were paired with footage of actual work on their first test and production parts.
if these problems can not be solved timely and effectively, they will threaten the safety of the aircraft.
we didn't want anybody relaxing in  their chairs, leisurely sipping their first cup of morning coffee.
mcnerney, he says, "has shifted from a delegate-and-trust approach to a trust-but-verify one." adds cohan, "though the delay in delivering the 787 is disappointing to boeing's customers and clearly demonstrates its need to improve, mcnerney's efforts to confront and overcome boeing's problems are likely to make boeing a stronger competitor."
they have wallowed in political correctness for more than a  decade.
an airplane is built to a master schedule.
previously, bair served as vice president and general manager for commercial aviation services, where he was credited with successfully restructuring the services business for improved competitiveness and performance.
25 dec 2008----------------------------------------- toyota tapped akio toyoda, grandson of the japanese automaker's founder, as president tuesday, paying homage to its roots at a time when the company faces its first operating loss in 70 years.
purchasing (materiel) had their shortage meetings.
he's holding his index finger in the air, and proclaiming "we're number one!"
the exchange rate of the euro has  plunged, creating a huge easing of the monetary burden that has been  mercilessly pressuring airbus financials.
pelekoudas has an "interim" title, though he'll be a candidate for the job.
our ethics are suspect, and our credibility  is zero.
the exception was scott carson, president of the commercial airplanes unit.
what you'll find is, going back 15 years, or more, - a lot of people began moving into high positions without much experience in the particular discipline.
boeing disclosed a serious new setback to its 787 dreamliner program just days before the airplane was to fly, announcing today that the first flight will be postponed for weeks because the plane needs structural reinforcement.
boeing 787 program ends year with celebration of progress everett, wash. , dec. 06, 2006 -- customers, partners and employees gathered at the boeing [nyse: ba] everett factory today to celebrate the virtual rollout of the boeing787 dreamliner and the program's progress over the last year.
fourth-quarter revenue fell 27 percent to $12.68 billion.
our meetings were called stand up meetings - they were intended to be short, concise and to-the-point.
scott fancher, who previously was vice president and general manager of ids missile defense systems, is named vice president and general manager of the 787 program, reporting directly to pat shanahan.
he was  right, of course.
in addition, the program unveiled the new paint scheme for its 747-400 large cargo freighters and announced that those airplanes will be named "dreamlifters."
"we  deeply regret the impact these delays will have on our customers,....."   we are unable to manage our programs.
i have received numerous emails from retired and current boeing people - some known, some unknown to me.
check out bill gates at microsoft, steve jobs at apple, andy grove at intel, bob galvin - motorola, t. wilson and claire egvedt at boeing, art collins of collins radio, or , say, my friend gerry block at sandel in san diego.
once a modification is developed, all the airplanes — those already built and those in process of being built — will have to be modified.
the latest test of the system--the technical challenges of which are often described as "hitting a bullet with a bullet"--occurred sept. 28 when the boeing-led gmd system was able to track, intercept and destroy a ballistic missile target over the pacific ocean.
"mcnerney isn't satisfied just to look at boeing abilities versus airbus," cohan writes.
about 1990, i received a call from a man named bob bartz.
it looks like the program will be a whopping 108 months - or more - from order to delivery.
the engineers have let them down repeatedly, and their credibility has been reduced to zero.
the cargo industry is in the middle of a slump because of the downturn, and industry sources say several 747-8f customers are seeking to delay deliveries.
this is the talk of losers.
good ones can instinctively smell a rat in the woodpile.
instead, what has clearly  happened - from my knothole - is for people to be promoted beyond their skills,  experience, and abilities.
it used to be "over budget, and they yell at you - bust a schedule and you get fired."
now seattle caught the long beach disease - declining market  shares and bad schedule problems.
where is your master schedule?
its programs are hopelessly delayed and over budget.
as  boeing has worried about everything but building
in their joint statement, the two eads co-ceos said airbus was the company's "immediate priority."
excellence was our pedigree and our mantra -  it was expected and it was delivered.
his  grandfather started him out working in the factory for two years to learn how  to build pianos, before he ever let him in the office.
check out bill gates at microsoft, steve jobs at  apple, andy grove at intel,  bob galvin - motorola, t. wilson and claire  egvedt at boeing, art collins of collins radio, or , say, my friend gerry block  at sandel in san diego.
they tell you where you really  are, without the fluff.
to the group of people known as its retirees, (myself included), it's a source of pain and chagrin.
there is little that is radical, or terribly new, about mcnerney's management philosophy, at least as explained in "you can't order change."
it was the action of a man who knows he's running out of time, and mclaren probably did know.
mclaren always wanted to be a manager, interviewing for jobs throughout his coaching career, but got his chance under unusual circumstances when hargrove simply walked away midway through a winning season.
see article in reference section at the bottom.]
", he said, as he turned and left my office.
pat - i think you need to stop saying this.
the wedgetail had structural problems with the crown mounted antenna; the kc-767 with wing-tip hose and drogue supersonic flows, the 767 freighter conversion with who knows what; likewise the 747-8; and the 787 engineering problems - i'm talking structural and aerodynamic - too numerous to mention.
my opinion:  if you want to run a tech company, you  need to be a techie.
investors hate pretty much every stock at the moment, regardless of how well or poorly managed those companies are individually.
boeing is the prime contractor on the gmd, leading a team of top aerospace companies that have successfully developed, tested and deployed a highly innovative and technically complex system for defending against ballistic missile attacks.
"i don't think it does, because they know the other shoe could drop at any time," pelekoudas said.
you could put a milestone on the chart for balloons, buttons, and hotdogs for the roll-out and the first flight.
our problems are far more basic than worrying about the passenger entertainment system.
the problem seems to be in the complex wiring supporting each customer's huge variation in passenger amenities.
it's employee relations, despite fancy talk and metrics, are perpetually strained.
" what success is scott referring to?
it takes us longer to build a kc-135 tanker replacement using an existing airframe, than it took to build the original kc-135.
i believe they are genuinely nice people and  obviously very smart.
"the customer focus and knowledge he brings from that experience--as well as the insight and knowledge of our new business model and supplier base--will help us immeasurably as we take our next steps with future products, services and business strategy."
on 11 feb 1960, the cia signed a contract with kelly johnson and lockheed's skunk works for 12 mach 3.2 reconnaissance planes (known as a-12s, yf-12s, later sr-71s.)
"investors are likely to require clear signs that this is the last of the delays, which will take some months to prove out," said heidi wood at morgan stanley.
a bunch of mostly white guys with pocket protectors, argyle socks and wingtip shoes living in bellevue, have been replaced by a more diverse workforce.
a company the size of boeing moves with glacial speed.
to date, boeing said 58 customers had placed 895 orders for 787s, excluding a recently canceled order from one customer for planes scheduled for delivery late in the next decade.
it had an advanced fly-by-wire  flight control system and avionics architecture.
back to my home page
just last week, a reorganization of airplane programs and the establishment of the supply chain management and operations organization were announced.
oh, and by the way, check out the 787 kick-off   orders from airlines in japan (ana) - or the 767 or 777.
they move rapidly through the chairs, without staying long  enough in a place to really learn something (or to get blamed when things start  heading south.)
jun 2009: 787 first flight indefinitely delayed for sixth time - details below.
the u.s. aircraft maker has consistently been late acknowledging problems with its new high-tech plane, long after industry blogs and wall street analysts have blown the whistle.
(it should be noted that, unlike sears' book, mcnerney didn't write this one.
bob bogash * the title borrowed from the "turnaround king, the tennessee  hillbilly"  - harry stonecipher- "that is not acceptable," stonecipher  said.
- boeing has  lost a good portion of its expertise, and finds itself with few people that  have the knowledge and expertise to design and build a new airplane.
my opinion: if you want to run a tech company, you need to be a techie.
where are these  skills now?  maybe on the floor of the bomarc site.
excellence was our pedigree and our mantra - it was expected and it was delivered.
the tricky part is execution, as boeing and mcnerney have discovered, particularly on those items related to productivity and global product development.
a decade or two of bad habits and mistaken personnel decisions are tough to erase.
would boeing have run into the same problems with the 787 had harry stonecipher not been caught canoodling via company e-mail with an underling and stayed on as ceo?
delay announcements airbus sacks two top executives in major shakeup following a380 delaysairbus sacks two top executives in major shakeup following a380 delays paris – the french co-ceo of airbus parent eads and the company's german chief of its civilian jet unit have been ousted in a dramatic shakeup, following devastating delays in the a380 superjumbo program.
"the dreamlifter is a vital tool that allows us to create a production flow around the world that is very efficient," said bair.
it makes it easy  for people to dodge responsibility.
boeing, which ranks as the world's no. 2 airplane maker after france's airbus sa, reported 2008 net income of $2.7 billion, or $3.71 per share, down 34 percent from 2007.commercial jet orders declined by half in 2008, after three consecutive years of exceptionally strong growth.
the rumor swirled around the global market following airbus' announcement of the delay of its a380 delivery.
the first airplane rolled out 26 feb 1962 and flew two months later on 26 april.
the company generally declines to answer specific questions about the project and the sheer inaccuracy of its projections are eroding its credibility.
he knows how to deliver results, ... and has the leadership skills to get the job done.
but the mariners have been a disaster from the start and are on pace to go 56-106 -- which would be the worst season for a franchise that has had plenty of lousy seasons.
the trees,  that is, that italian partner alenia had to move before it could build its  factory in grottaglie, a city in southeast italy.
in this case, i choose to use the word in a more benign way - meaning 'spark', 'spunk', 'winning attitude.'
i  invite the reader of this humble  tome to do the same.
last week brought a review copy of a new book, to be published in early january, by management consultant peter cohan, "you can't order change: lessons from jim mcnerney's turnaround at boeing."
787 flight test aircraft not allocated to customers boeing has confirmed that the first six 787 test flight aircraft, once destined for customers ana, delta airlines and royal air maroc are no longer assigned to specific airlines.
actually, the 757 and 767 programs, were likewise advanced for  their time, and all three airplanes were managed to a master schedule, and were  on-time.
three days after firing general manager bill bavasi, the mariners on thursday followed by giving mclaren the ax hours before the team left for a three-city interleague road trip.
a 787 will be used on actual airline routes, replicating the rigors and demands of commercial service.
what we've got (in the great american "new tradition"), are bean counters.
so -- after more than 40 years, with the technology, factory, most of the tooling, and 1400 completed production units in hand, boeing has increased the time to develop an airplane - a derivative airplane - by about 14 months.
but the best part is yet to come.
mclaren led the mariners to a 43-41 record to end the 2007 season and was brought back without hesitation for 2008.
their language sounds more and more like a losing sports coach about to get fired.
suddenly falling gas prices negatively impact the urgency for airlines to acquire more fuel efficient airplanes - read that 787.
total failure to even recognize the value of legacy systems.
it was digitally designed and built.
analysts had expected revenue of $13.40 billion in the quarter.
today we are announcing a series of leadership changes and a restructuring to better align resources across development programs and strengthen our oversight of the global supply chain.
now,  the 787 is looking at - what? -
" here's a test - check out the bios of all the boeing directors.
the reason aerospace is such a high stakes game, with  a high cost of entry, is because of the complexity and skill sets needed to be  successful.
recalling the  ``old boeing," stonecipher shared a conversation he once had with former  boeing chairman t. wilson.
a great  airplane and a great program.
the way things worked successfully at  boeing, or anywhere else for that matter, is when for every job, there is just  one ass to kick when it isn't done.
"we are disappointed that the first flight of the 787 will be postponed, and urge boeing to specify the schedule for the program as a whole as quickly as possible," the ana statement said.
they should know it's always there."
starting with maureen, perhaps, (nothing personal, maureen), and  working up from there.
morocco's royal air maroc has also moved into the early production stream assuming ownership of two delivery spots previously held by air china and china eastern, with jal taking an additional dreamliner from another spot held by china eastern.
this is not acceptable, and some people need to be held accountable - maybe get fired!
"pat's experience and proven record managing demanding and complex programs will allow him to build on the 787 team's success as we tackle the challenges we face in bringing our new production system fully on line," carson said.
the mariners fired their coach in mid-season.
the  engineers have let them down repeatedly, and their credibility has been reduced  to zero.
our first airplane is going to be almost two years from rollout to first flight!
ray conner is named vice president and general manager of a new organization, supply chain management and operations.
"we're laser focused on what needs to be done to  prepare for first flight,"said pat shanahan, 787 program vice president.
as i wrote to then president ron woodard in dismay in 1994,  "if all the good people leave, whose gonna be left - the duds?
it was management 101.
it was the legacy handed down to us from those who went before - 50 years of greatness.
and that's an important message.
boeing has been arrogant, and not in a good way either.
there are no absolutes.)
after clearing this unorthodox request with the head shed, i  agreed to the meeting.
you don't absolutely have to be a techie (bill allen wasn't), but then you need some really good techies working for you, people you can trust.
some analysts say the dip is a good time to buy shares, but more rate boeing stock a "hold" until uncertainty clears.
shares of boeing, which have sunk on worries about the 787 as well as the weak commercial aircraft market, traded recently at $43.46, down 7.5% for the day.
but for now we should all remain focused on supporting our customers, implementing the boeing production system and producing the most exceptional airplanes in the world.
boeing expects to fly the first 787 by the end of the 2nd quarter of 2009.
the latter transmittal included a volley of emails and snail mail letters from retired senior executives.
the news came just a week after boeing executives at the paris air show, including carson, offered assurances that the plane would fly by month-end.
the new airplane programs and supply chain management and operations organizations will work together closely to drive lean initiatives, productivity and execution throughout the entire global value chain.
fast forward a few years, and douglas -  long beach now had a boeing sign  on their big office building in long beach.
-"somewhere in the world is someone who can make this project happen, and, -- with a pregnant pause -- i hope it's you.
now, i'm reminded of another old boeing phrase -  "you can't hoe the garden from the living room.
just perhaps, the "team-player / yes-man / group-think culture has arrived at its inevitable conclusion - people afraid to stand up and tell the boss something he doesn't want to hear.
when a talented team underperforms that badly, firing the manager is baseball 101.
then they are expected to meet the  schedule.
over two years 2006-2008, lmt's revenues increased 35.4%; net income increased 27.2% *
about 1990, i received  a call from a man named bob bartz.
just hours before his appointment, toyota announced that global sales last year fell for the first time in 10 years, falling 4 percent to 8.972 million vehicles.
in fact, it was supplied to scott carson (who never  replied) in december, and to jim  mcnerney in january 2009.
" mclaren fired; riggleman new seattle manager - july 2008
we have this huge  backlog......
maybe "t" had it right, harry!
by bill rigby - analysis new york (reuters) - if you want to know what's going on with boeing co's new 787 dreamliner, ask anybody but boeing.
to "make their bar" in factory jargon.
the company is also determining any financial impact from this schedule change and will incorporate that into updated financial and overall airplane delivery guidance that will be released at a later date.
"while difficult, this was the prudent step for us to take.," carson said.
an old fogey, over-the-hill.
the way things worked successfully at boeing, or anywhere else for that matter, is when for every job, there is just one ass to kick when it isn't done.
in march 1944, boeing delivered 365 b-17s from plant 2 in just the one month.
p.r. flacks are putting out press releases that even to them, must be getting tiresome.
parent company eads vowed today to put franco-german management tensions behind it and resolve the crisis at boeing's chief competitor in the world commercial aviation market.
in the specific case of boeing, the dust-jacket blurb for cohan's book calls mcnerney "a rising superstar among today's ceos."
now, that's progress!
we talk in nebulosity's - in terms of "assessments", and vague dates given in calendar quarters - even years!
bill b., one of my many correspondents, put it succinctly: when i came to boeing 40 years ago, it was "kick  ass, take names, build planes", now it is "sit  down, hold hands, build plans" boeing hasn't been tending to their knitting for a long time, and the  chickens are coming home to roost.
"it sends a strong message that moves toward change will be sped up.
the crisis at the defense group followed its announcement last month that the airbus a380 superjumbo was likely to suffer fresh delays of up to seven months.
the fresh delay snags air new zealand's strategic drive to spruce up its fleet and long-haul operations, although the airline has said recently that there won't be any major disruptions to its network.
the program is going to be 10 years old, $1 billion dollars over budget (all boeing money), and they talk about "success."
not one has found fault with what i said.
on behalf of everyone at commercial airplanes and the entire boeing enterprise, i want to thank carolyn for her outstanding vision and leadership in transforming our production system and dramatically improving our productivity throughout her career.·
he asked if he could come and visit to discuss "production problems" being experienced in long beach.
their engineering  and  supplier management and manufacturing seemed under control.
sr-71 blackbird it is interesting to also note that half a dozen competing aew projects have been proposed, produced, and introduced during this time period by other aerospace companies, using an assortment of mostly business jet and regional jet airframes.
each individual program and site organization made progress this year as well as faced a boatload of unexpected challenges.
post script: as this rant has made the rounds in draft form, a few things became quite clear.
check out the 777 program.
he was, i think, the mcd v.p. in long beach responsible for douglas purchasing.
there's a question upon which boeing's future rests -- and which, whatever the answer, might even make for an instructive management-theory book for would-be ceos.
the 737 in 26 months.
boeing insists it can fix the problem with a modification to strengthen the structural areas in question.
people who try to "hide the wienie" are usually outed, and can get the gate.
they each have their own war rooms.
clearly, they are not on-top of the situation.
this is permeating almost all of the current programs.
but others, such as the 787 delays, were already well known and in fact are extensively discussed in the book.
buyers would appear weekly before management, and  would do anything to ensure that they had their supplier's part situation under  control.
if not for an equally incompetent competitor in a duopoly, the end would have perhaps come already.
airbus built this big airplane - the a380.
the areas affected are where the wing made by mitsubishi in japan is joined to a part of the center fuselage body made by fuji, also of japan.
their engineering and supplier management and manufacturing seemed under control.
we are going backwards.
cfo james bell and james albaugh, president of the integrated defense systems unit, each received 23% increases, with albaugh’s compensation reaching $5,089,237.
passengers should be  riding on those 787s at this moment, and the flight line should be full of  airplanes nearing delivery.
this is a recipe for disaster, -- enough of these unskilled folks, and the train stops running.
master schedules  and war rooms were the secret method, and management and accountability were  the secret sauce.
passengers should be riding on those 787s at this moment, and the flight line should be full of airplanes nearing delivery.
actually, it was a vice i preached against during my working  years.
and the discipline to drive towards a common  goal.
getting caught in this storm, at this time,  is entirely boeing's doing - all of the above programs should be producing  product and revenue streams at this very time.
i recall my boss once coming around to tell me of a new job - a new  'opportunity'
what we've got (in the great american "new  tradition"), are bean  counters.
the company's stock performance reflects the loss of confidence.
while the detailed analysis and demonstrations created by the team remain proprietary for competitive reasons, the program did share a number of engineering-based simulations ranging from part installations to the final assembly factory flow in everett.
marlin, who most recently led the commercial airplanes sales efforts in europe, russia and central asia, reports directly to me.·
cohan's book assigns blame for the 787's delays on an unrealistic rollout timetable (the drive by marketing to have it occur on 7/08/07) and a lack of accurate information from subordinates.
nisbet said that, in the worst case, customers could have to wait months longer for the new planes, which are already two years behind their original schedule.
some reference materials787
mclaren bragged about the team's "five no. 1" starters, guaranteed richie sexson would be named comeback player of the year and said unequivocally that anything short of a playoff berth would be a failed season.
boeing has usually excelled when engineers were at the top - claire egvedt, phillip johnson, t. wilson, jim johnson, alan mulally.
note: lockheed's revenues increased 2.1% 2007-2008; net income increased 6.1%; lmt stk price decline 1 year - 40% (ba -60%.)
"representing the "leadership team, ms. dougherty recognized employees for the good work and successes."
it now appears that it will be two years from rollout to first flight scott carson would...... "pat's experience and proven record managing demanding and complex programs will allow him to build on the 787 team's success.
------------------------------------- update - 23 jun 2009:   787 first flight indefinitely delayed for  sixth time -  details below.
i like metrics - macro metrics.
we witnessed many positive achievements and some unfortunate events as well, such as the strike by our machinist co-workers amid the backdrop of national and international economic turmoil.
we may yet encounter other changes resulting from the transition to those reorganized groups in the new year.
i don't think anybody worked harder than him."
it didn't happen by accident and there were no computers,  no emails and no employee surveys.
on wednesday, boeing executives said an additional 5,500 positions in other parts of the company, including its defense division, were to be eliminated through attrition and layoffs throughout the year.
"position us for continued success.
"the tipping point.
as my friend jim said: the whiz kids call it  "cross pollenization",  i call it
the mariners made bold moves in the offseason and fancied themselves contenders this spring.
"we are doing what we do best at boeing,  and that is use all of our intelligence, skills and resources to make sure that  we deliver," said carson.
it's not enough to be   smart, sit in the meetings, and think you're "learning the  business.
the 707 prototype - the dash 80  - in 26 months.
engines, propellers, landing gear, windshields, aluminum  sheet, tires.
" last updated december 15, 2008 5:22 p.m.
there's one more thing i find painful to say.
"i think it was a culmination of really just watching the team's play for a period of time.
i hate to use the word 'lying', but they are not  being told the truth, or they wouldn't stand up in front of a roomful of  analysts and reporters, and solemnly declare that the "new" date was  a firm date.
the metrics cited above show it clearly.
some of the hardest things i did as a manager were relieving people who were 'nice guys', in fact some were good personal friends.
just imagine the challenges to overcome!
ray brings years of experience in sales, program management, manufacturing and supply chain management.·
i recall my boss once coming around to tell me of a new job - a new 'opportunity'
it didn't have "shims", despite  some comments elsewhere in the press.
conclusions it takes us longer to modify a 767 into a freighter, than it took to  design, build and certify the 767.
38 months after contract signing, it was flying at mach 3 with an all new set of engines (j-58s.)
but we know how to do  it." "know how to do it"?
there are no  absolutes.)
the falling economy reduces  traffic and the cash flow  needed to buy new equipment, and parking excess airplanes to reduce capacity  certainly works against accepting new ones.
an earlier delay announced in 2006 cost the manufacturer a $496 million charge against its second-quarter (2007) earnings."
it takes us longer to build a 'poor man's awacs' on a 737 platform, than it took to build the original awacs on a 707.
they move rapidly through the chairs, without staying long enough in a place to really learn something (or to get blamed when things start heading south.)
date: monday, may 4, 2009, 11:12 am seattle, oct. 16, 2007 -- boeing commercial airplanes president and ceo scott carson today named pat shanahan vice president and general manager of the 787 program.
regardless of whether it had a hand in lighting the fire, every company is likely to get singed by the recession.
"we knew this was going to be a messy quarter given the impact of the strike...but it certainly missed [analysts' consensus ] number," said american technology analyst peter arment.
boeing said the long-awaited first flight of the 787, to have taken place this month, would be delayed because the plane failed a stress test.
what i'm trying to say  is boeing got stupid, and started to  think our success happened because we were so good - like falling out of bed in  the morning -- instead of due to the intelligence, skill, and hard work of  a  lot of experienced people.
bair congratulated the team for a spectacular 2006 and reminded everyone that 2007 is when many of the program's major milestones must be completed.
we are unable to manage large programs - our ultimate core competency.
wall street is now taking a "show me" stance on the company, whose shares have plummeted since last summer.
nevertheless, i wonder what boeing's game planis with regard to suppliers - or  even if they have a game plan.
19 years of boeing progress problems?
that's what they pay you the big bucks for, maureen.
probably the most advanced airplane ever built.
boeing's problems are starting to resemble the spiraling setbacks at rival airbus, whose a380 superjumbo was two years late, throwing parent eads into financial disarray and ending the careers of several executives.
results were dragged down by charges totaling $1.79 per share, including the effects of a now-settled machinists strike and delayed deliveries of 747 jets.
the coach got fired.
wellington (dow jones)--air new zealand ltd. (air.nz) said wednesday that aircraft maker boeing co. (ba) has confirmed further delays in the delivery of its first 787-9 aircraft.
for years, these new directors were  saved from themselves (sort of) because they had lieutenants who knew the ropes  and counseled them.
here's a tip -  don't integrate the super bowl champs with the last  place team.
this is the team, all of us together - our customers, our partners and each of us - who will bring this airplane to life.
i hate to use the word 'lying', but they are not being told the truth, or they wouldn't stand up in front of a roomful of analysts and reporters, and solemnly declare that the "new" date was a firm date.
but that workforce needs to be trained, mentored, nurtured - to squeeze the  drops of wisdom from the previous generation.
also in preparation for the airplane's entry into service, boeing is working with ana and northwest airlines on a service ready operational validation program that will happen at the end of the flight test program and prior to first deliveries.
he never responded to our offer of help, and no request for  such help, to my knowledge,  has ensued in the almost three months since.
and done without a bunch of whining about "software and equipment issues" and drivel like “upgrading the sensors is going more slowly than expected,” huh?
it  permeates their language and their mindset.
it also delayed deliveries of 747-8 cargo and passenger jets, partly due to the strike, and deliveries of 737s, 747s, 767s and 777s as it replaces defective fasteners used to attach wiring and other components inside the planes' fuselages.
boeing will need to reinforce a joint between the wings and body of the plane, scott carson, head of boeing's commercial-airplanes unit, said tuesday.
the 787--which will provide airlines with unmatched fuel efficiency, environmental performance and passenger comfort--has enjoyed the most successful launch of any airplane program in the history of commercial aviation, with 710 orders from 50 airlines from around the world.
and the reasons for this situation seemed to mostly resonate along the points i have try to make above.
"john mclaren and i, and many of us in the organization, go back a long way.
it is taking us longer to design and build a new model airplane than any previous airplane in the history of the company.
this is - -- beyond strange....
"at this point, boeing has provided us with nothing but uncertainty," said paul nisbet, president of the independent research company.
the 787 "rolled out" on 8 july 2007 - (7/8/07 - get it?) - with tom brokaw and jim mcnerney presiding.
i'm sure of this much; its much, much, worse than you can read in the papers.
leroy grumman, jack northrop, kelly johnson - the list  is long.
leroy grumman, jack northrop, kelly johnson - the list is long.
when those backlogs get worked off, or melt away in the current economic environment, the day of inevitable reckoning will be nigh.
airbus built this big  airplane - the a380.
purchasing (materiel) had their  shortage meetings.
[note 2: is boeing contemplating canceling the program?
the airplanes were ordered way back in 2000, and rolled out in oct 2002.
failure to hold people accountable for meeting program schedules and milestones.
get enough of the wrong people in charge, and you pass v1 speed - there's no turning back.
engines, propellers, landing gear, windshields, aluminum sheet, tires.
and you could order the catering two years  ahead of time without  fear.
almost every new program winds up hugely over budget and  enormously behind schedule.
it takes us longer to build a 747 stretched derivative airplane, than it  took to design, build and certify the 747.
most of those coaches get the gate.
"there wasn't one game, there wasn't one homestand, there wasn't one series that really led to this decision," pelekoudas said.
taking the lead in ethics compliance and environmental change.
master schedules and war rooms were the secret method, and management and accountability were the secret sauce.
we were too "in-bred."
boeing has 106 orders for the 747-8f and a further 28 for the 747-8 passenger model - 20 for lufthansa and the remainder for vip customers.
but from a strictly professional level, i felt this was the right thing to do for the ballclub and for the further advancement of the organization and for our efforts to try to get better this year.
some kids will learn to swimquickly, the others will drown.
1 may 2009 or, for the latest, just google "boeing delays" a little reference - what sports teams do for "non-performance" seattle mariners firing of manager john mclaren - it all sounds............ so familiar.
************************************** check out the article in the reference section below from the company rag -- it explains part of the problem.
progress against the schedule is tracked at all levels continuously.
they tell you where you really are, without the fluff.
marlin dailey is named vice president of sales for commercial airplanes, replacing ray conner.
2 year -30% (ba -60%)
our meetings were called stand up meetings - they were intended to  be short, concise and to-the-point.
boeing has usually excelled when engineers were at the top -  claire  egvedt, phillip johnson, t. wilson, jim johnson, alan mulally.
at the time, it never made much of an impression  on me, one way or the other.
carson said on the conference call that initial analysis suggested first flight could go ahead even as boeing tried to fix the problem.
we didn't want anybody relaxing in their chairs, leisurely sipping their first cup of morning coffee.
our problems are far more basic than worrying about the passenger  entertainment system.
boeing has a lot of problems  - a lot.
carson said the company needs to do more work before it establishes a new production schedule, based on "hard, assessed facts," rather than "shallower analysis," an acknowledgment that its previous projections were seriously flawed.
about 60 months all up, and 18 months from the start of system wring-out.
- like a lot of american  industry - the wrong people are at the top.
that would be -- if not acceptable -- at least somewhat understandable.
the head of the 787 program, pat shanahan, spoke of "demonstrated performance" on certain areas of the plane on wednesday, but did not go into specifics, leaving the question of boeing's credibility still largely a matter of trust.
boeing needs to be giving some of their losers the gate too - before it's too late - and a lot of them are right at the top.
that's well off the year-high of $76.48.
boeing did not create the recession.
in fact, we were probably regressing.
it was  a big change for an 80 year old company.
it takes us longer to build a 'poor man's awacs' on a 737 platform, than  it took to build the original awacs on a 707.
mr. mcnerney replied very quickly, albeit somewhat tepidly, acknowledgeing our concerns and the problems we have outlined.
historically, bean counters do poorly managing technological companies.
we have found errors in simulation that would have been costly to find in production and have been able to design corrections quickly to keep the program on track."
"we will have our rollout and first flight and will begin the flight test program.
the announcement, only a month after boeing executives assured investors everything was on track, was widely predicted by industry watchers.
if you want to run a baking  company, you better know a  hell of a lot about baking!"  i note, parenthetically, that the last  steinway just died at 92 (of  steinway & sons piano fame.)
the national carrier, which is 76% owned by the new zealand government, said it is continuing to discuss compensation over the delays with boeing.
"on a personal level, this was a very difficult decision to make," pelekoudas said.
a  bunch of mostly white guys with pocket protectors, argyle socks and wingtip  shoes living in bellevue, have been replaced by a more diverse workforce.
"boeing confirmed yesterday a further 12-month delay could be expected with the first 787-9 aircraft to be delivered to air new zealand in the first quarter of 2013," the carrier said in a statement.
whether its too late or not, is hard to tell.
check the resumes and education of the top guys - the bios are on the boeing web site.
parts from everywhere -- in wartime.
"oh!, i thought -  if you put it in those terms."
the ultimate goal is to deliver value to our customers and protect our competitiveness in this challenging market environment.
get enough of the wrong people in charge, and you pass v1 speed -  there's no turning back.
maybe we ought to junk them and give them their money back?
when engineers checked the areas flagged by the instruments measuring the strain, they found evidence that the structure was indeed stressed.
pat has an excellent track record as a program management executive in both commercial airplanes and integrated defense systems.·
for years, these new directors were saved from themselves (sort of) because they had lieutenants who knew the ropes and counseled them.
(used to be  vue-foil presentations in the "old days.")
"we will overcome this set of circumstances as we have others in the past, and we understand clearly what needs to be done moving forward."
- like a lot of american industry - the wrong people are at the top.
back to home page revised 24 nov 2008 revised 5 dec 2008 revised 12 dec 2008 revised 21 dec 2008 revised 26 dec 2008 revised 31 dec 2008 revised 4 jan 2009 revised 15 jan 2009 revised 18 jan 2009 revised 29 jan 2009 revised 6 feb 2009 revided 4 apr 2009 revised 5 may 2009 revised 23 jun 2009
"  now, busting  schedule is de rigueur.
"we don't want to be in a position where we do all this with you again.
and that doesn't mean  that boeing was a devil's island to work at.
we  are going backwards.
the result can be like tossing your kids in the middle of the lake.
politicians and trade unions welcomed the changes at eads, announced sunday, in which airbus ceo gustav humbert was also forced to step down, and replaced by frenchman christian streiff — a former executive with building materials maker compagnie de saint-gobain sa.
the dog ate my homework' isnot
they were dismayed by the loss of prestige and all the rest.
despite what is said  about the 787, the 777 was a "high-tech" airplane.
yeah, i'm talking the mariners, the huskies, the seahawks.
as my friend jim said:the whiz kids call it "cross pollenization", i call it
as bill conway, the management guru i was good friends with, used to say - "this business that being a good manager is all that's needed is nonsense.
passenger and cargo jet deliveries fell by more than half as a strike by production workers paralyzed the company's seattle-based commercial aircraft operations for 58 days through early november.
then they are expected to meet the schedule.
the stated reason was to avoid forcing the local operating units to constantly squirm under the direct glare of the head shed guys.
sitting in my office on a rare snowy day, he confessed that douglas was envious of boeing's scheduling prowess.
he moved to ids in 2002, first to lead boeing's rotorcraft division, operated from the company's philadelphia and mesa sites, before taking over leadership of boeing's missile defense programs--including the ground-based midcourse defense system (gmd)--in 2004.
i do think these people are  in denial.
see newspaper article below.
**this message is being sent to all everett site employees on behalf of ross r. bogue, vice president and general manager of 747 program and everett site.
but with no active sales campaigns ongoing for the 747-8, other than a potential long-term deal to replace air force one, lufthansa faces the serious prospect of being the only airline customer for the passenger version, and this in itself could have financial implications for boeing such as residual value guarantees.
"   the answer is now plain to see as the emperor has no clothes.
it was a painful moment for carson and boeing generally.
and  the cert program seemed fairly straight-forward.
people who try to "hide the wienie" are usually outed, and can  get the gate.
"mike has taken the 787 program from a concept to a market-leading position," carson added.
but they got the gate for poor performance - and they deserved it.
mclaren was piniella's right-hand man in cincinnati, seattle and tampa bay before going his own way to resume the job of mariners bench coach under hargrove in 2007.
the 787 might  not exist at all, and the boeing factories might not be near as busy without  our relationships with that country's manufacturers.
only dummies think it is  easy.
our alma mater's 75 year hard won reputation for excellence, honesty, credibility, and 'can-do', are being frittered away.
losing over a billion dollars and being years and years late on a program is a "job well done?" clearly, i am in a time warp.
the news comes on top of waning demand for the company's commercial jets.
this airplane required -- new -everything new!
check out the article in the reference section below from the company  rag  --  it explains part of the problem.
our dean thornton "god-given" market share has fallen below 50%.
you need to  have that sixth sense that tells you that you are out on thin ice and getting  ready to fall through.
a first step in any such transformation is acknowledgement and  recognition.
"representing the  "leadership team, ms. dougherty recognized employees for the good work and  successes."  what successes?
none of us in the retiree corps are at all happy with the state of the company today.
failing to recognize the high value of experience present in the seasoned workforce, replacing that knowledge with promises from in-experienced people who have to learn on-the-fly, and reinvent the wheel.6.
they do well because the boss knows what's going on, or at least knows what questions to ask.
lee elia, named hitting coach when pentland was fired june 9, will now assume the title of bench coach.
increasing intracompany teamwork.
hq definitely seems a little - shall we say "thin" - in technical depth, and that deficiency, along with the distance, is really starting to bite.
"if we didn't believe the revenues would outweigh the costs we wouldn't go forward with it." ati understands that boeing has studied various options for the programme, including terminating the 747-8 and running the 747-8f as a stand-alone.
"  watching power point presentations.
on the one hand they have shut down or  spun off portions of the company, like spokane and wichita.
these dumb press releases, and letters to employees, and absurd articles in the company magazine really need to stop.
in this case, i choose to use the word in a more benign way -  meaning 'spark', 'spunk', 'winning attitude.'
-- i don't think so  yvonne!!!
somebody needs to get fired.
the mariners  fired their coach in mid-season.
now, busting schedule is de rigueur.
scott brings demonstrated leadership in program management, systems integration and technology development to the 787 program.·
the brain drain of '95 plus natural attrition has pretty much taken care of that.
-"somewhere in the world is someone who can make this  project happen, and,  --  with a pregnant pause --  i hope it's  you.
these times  call for old "bull of the woods" types like sessions or buckley who  will just not tolerate late engineering, shortages, schedule slippage,  etc.  alas, where does one find those guys now??
although suppliers and union work stoppages are frequently referred to as "the usual suspects" in the press releases, it must be stated that the 737 wedgetail, kc-767 tanker, 767 freighter conversion, 747-8, and 787 have all been plagued with publicly acknowledged"engineering problems."
(december  11, 2008) "...we understand clearly what needs to be done moving  forward."
"the engineering data behind these simulations gives us confidence in our assembly processes and our ability to meet our commitments to our customers," bair said.
and caused embarrassment - especially for us retirees.
it makes it easy for people to dodge responsibility.
747-8 the mantra around boeing when i retired was stuff like "being nimble."
and who knows what compensation will be due the customer for late delivery.
i have reconnected, in fact, with some folks i haven't seen or spoken to in 30-40 years!
but their problems were in producing  the customer's airplanes, not in designing, testing, and certifying the basic  airplane.
depending more on internal growth than acquisitions for growth.
prior to the strike that halted much of the company's commercial airplane work from early september into november, the 787 was to make its first flight late in the fourth quarter of 2008.
old chinese proverb i hear, .....and i forget i see, .....and i remember i do, .....
we were too  "in-bred."
toyota announces first loss since 1938.
the australian airline, which will use the aircraft in its low-cost jetstar subsidiary, previously expected to receive three 787s over three months, will now take delivery of its first five 787s over four months.
all of us are solutions-oriented and solutions-driven.
at the time, it never made much of an impression on me, one way or the other.
in a conference call early tuesday morning, scott fancher, the head of the dreamliner program, said that late in may engineers, performing wing bend tests on the airplane that is set aside inside the factory specifically for ground testing, found that strain gauges showed higher stress than predicted by the computer models at multiple points along the upper part of the wing-to-body join.
a decade or two of  bad habits and mistaken personnel decisions are tough to erase.
suddenly falling gas prices negatively impact the  urgency for airlines to acquire more fuel efficient airplanes - read that  787.
while boeing executives have restated their support for the commercial viability of the aircraft, chief executive jim mcnerney warns that the continuation of the programme should not be seen as a foregone conclusion: "we still see a viable business proposition here.
pelekoudas said elia would still retain a supervisory role over the hitting program, much as he did when he was on piniella's coaching staff.
before i quit this rant, i want to  mention one last thing - a  subject known as "chicago."
mulally insisted that  the airplane not be designed "on the shop floor", and it  wasn't.
but to the extent that the stock price reflects investor unhappiness over boeing's inability to deliver on promises for the 787 -- that one clearly is his.
boeing confirmed the punctual operation of the 787 planes as scheduled.
the airframer took a $685 million charge last year stemming from cost overruns and schedule delays on the 747-8 programme.
daily (like at 6 am in the tunnels under the 747 factory?)
i believe they were nice guys who would make great friends and neighbors.
now, i'm reminded of another old boeing phrase - "you can't hoe the garden from the living room."
typically, manufacturers like boeing and rival airbus must compensate both customers and suppliers when aircraft production is delayed.
is there really a problem?
it's a true team effort - from the days before they had team players (a boeing euphemism for"yes-man.")
i believe they were nice guys who would  make great friends and neighbors.
so how did boeing get  in this pickle?
so far, boeing has taken charges of over $1 billion on this program - a firm fixed price contract involving 6 airplanes.
* boeing has lost its touch.
but that workforce needs to be trained, mentored, nurtured - to squeeze the drops of wisdom from the previous generation.
i didn't think they'd start building 747s near the  loop.
ray brings years of experience in sales, program management, manufacturing and supply chain management.
they wound up in the unique predicament of having a certified airplane, but unable to deliver product.
trying to keep pace with breaking news and current events is often a risky proposition for print media, none more so than book publishing, what with its long lead times for researching, writing and production.
jim blue once had a painting commissioned.
"composites are the right material," said pat shanahan, head of airplane programs, "we will correct this situation and do it with both care and urgency.
"it's a challenge, no doubt about it.
my inside intelligence indicates there are more "bad surprises" lurking in the future, and there is a real question as to whether carson and mcnerney have been apprised of these.
matrix management is a disaster in the making.
maybe if we start there, we can  move on to the solutions.
on the other,  they have bought suppliers - like in hawker de havilland in australia, rockwell  tulsa, vought (global partner share) - bringing once outside suppliers into the  boeing fold.
"i'll be interesting to hear the explanation for that."
and they took a two year schedule slide.
his grandfather started him out working in the factory for two years to learn how to build pianos, before he ever let him in the office.
old chinese proverb i hear, .....and i forget i see, .....and i rememberi do, .....and i understand -
pat has an excellent track record as a program management executive in both commercial airplanes and integrated defense systems.
i don't want, nor do others, to be seen as sitting on the  sidelines bitching without a solution.
his compensation declined more than 18% to $3,213,486 and his bonus was cut 13% to $854,610.
jose castro, the mariners' minor league hitting coordinator, will join the major league staff as hitting coach and report to elia.
however, late last week, after the executives had returned from paris, the decision was made to halt first flight.
all the functions contribute to the  building of the schedule, and all sign off.
hmmmmm, i wonder if we can get one for the museum?
boeing only wishes it had those problems.
people were smart, worked hard, - often off  the clock.
"this is similar to the programs we have used with great success on other programs," said bair.
i never met ex-mariner managers  john mclaren or jim riggleman.
wall street is now asking why the latest assurances should be any more reliable than the last.
"we saw a number of things indicative of what the strain gauges were saying," fancher said.
if i had to distill all the comments to a few kernels of wisdom, they might look like these: 1.
"the gallery provides a single location for airlines to configure their 787s," said bair.
and that doesn't mean that boeing was a devil's island to work at.
that's in part because the person who will decide on next season's manager might not have been hired yet.
their language sounds more and more like a  losing sports coach about to get fired.
on wednesday, the u.s. plane maker finally faced up to the second major delay on the revolutionary, carbon-fiber aircraft, putting it about nine months behind its original schedule.
airlines are cutting spending and air travel has declined amid the global economic slowdown.
"first flight and first delivery will be rescheduled following the final determination of the required modification and testing plan," the boeing statement said.
now, we don't even provide a schedule.
and stop the double talk!
we do not "understand what needs to be done", and the 787 program, in particular, is not a "success."
and, just maybe, boeing is reflective of our society as a whole.
the move marks a return to commercial airplanes for shanahan, who has led both the 757 and 767-400er programs.
a sure recipe for disaster.
my inside intelligence indicates there are more "bad  surprises" lurking in the future, and there is a real question as to  whether carson and mcnerney have been apprised of these.
********************************before i quit this rant, i want to mention one last thing - a subject known as "chicago."
100 season losses, or a winless season, and the coach says how proud he is of his players, how hard they've worked under adversity, yadda yadda.
"through the use of our new digital toolset, provided by dassault systemes, the team has proven the ability to manufacture 787 designs."
" you know, harry, the green bay packers were 'arrogant' too, and so were the  new york yankees.
the brewingperfect storm demands more in the way of management skills at the very time when boeing seems  to have lost them completely.
[note 1: according to av week - dec 15 issue - besides engineering woes, "supplier problems also now envelope the 747-8 development.]
it's called management!
when done successfully, it looks easy - but only  dummies (or, perhaps, some in boeing top management), think it's easy.
its management are demonstrably incompetent, people selected in a committee environment to meet goals unrelated to the business, and promoted without the required skill sets or experience.
we talk in nebulosity's - in terms of "assessments",  and vague dates given in calendar quarters - even years!
the delay forced boeing to concede it will not build 109 787s by the end of 2009, an ambitious promise that most analysts had already lost faith in.
but the airframer remains confident of placing the six refurbished flight test aircraft with customers.
boeing co. had a rough year, with more delays to its new 787 jet, a machinists strike, a downturn in demand for commercial aircraft and numerous challenges in its defense unit.
"all catalog selections will be physically present in the gallery for customers to see, touch and evaluate prior to selection.
"we open our everett factory next year and start producing airplanes," bair said.
the book arrived on the same day that boeing announced yet another delay in the 787, and yet another shake-up in the management team overseeing that project.
but i think i speak for many people who have written me, we are all concerned with our alma mater and most are willing to try and help right the ship.
in fact, it was supplied to scott carson (who never replied) in december, and to jim mcnerney in january 2009.
fear in the workplace in an atmosphere that preaches, indeed brags, about the lack of such.4.
the 727 in 26 months.
in one instance, boeing bought a partner out of a joint venture to do the job itself.
it affirms that similar problem are unavoidable in the r&d stage, as what has been shown by their experienced in other airplane project.
the uw football team just went  winless for the entire season.
it is taking us longer to design and build a new model airplane than any  previous airplane in the history of the company.
flight magazine feb 2009 walk away from a program!!!
every year has been important as we move toward starting deliveries in 2008 but next year will be the most demanding experience for many of us.
in the weeks ahead, fancher said, engineers must assess several different possible modifications, select the best, then design and test it.
"we will pass this test."
additional resources are allocated.
according to business week, the recent test on the nose of the plane found the overall weight of the aircraft is much heavier than expectation and there is flaw in the design of communication software.
delaying the schedule was "a difficult call for us to make," he said, on the conference call to analysts and reporters.
(in a bit of unintentional and inadvertent brilliance, mcnerney may get bailed out of some displeasure over the 787 delays if the recession -- in the form of reduced passenger traffic -- and lower fuel prices make airlines less impatient to get the planes they've ordered.)
fostering a "yes-man" environment under the guise of "teamwork" inhibiting free voicing of legitimate program and technical concerns.
"i'm not saying it's going to drop tomorrow or going to drop at all.
to the extent that boeing's stock price slump is the result of the economic downturn, mcnerney gets a mulligan.
he was, i think, the mcd v.p. in long  beach responsible for douglas purchasing.
it was like learning to walk.
the number of people actually making the  move was miniscule.
fancher emphasized that the issue does not represent a fundamental problem with the new carbon-fiber composite plastic material from which the airplane is constructed.
it permeates their language and their mindset.
pat reports directly to me, and his organization is responsible for all current commercial airplane production and development programs, including the 787 and 747-8.
but if bromides and bullet points were all there were to running a large corporation, anyone with a management textbook could do it.
boosting productivity and building global product development.
chairman, president and ceo james mcnerney’s total compensation was up 14% from 2007 to $14,765,410, including a 43% hike in his cash bonus to more than $6 million.
they're still not out of the woods.
quite a few wind up in very high positions.
both changes are effective immediately.
in addition, this new information appears to confirm that delta air lines, which excluded 18 787s from an order table listed in a recent us securities and exchange commission filing, does not intend to be an early 787 customer, even though the airline confirms that it retains firm orders for the type.
this is a recipe for disaster, -- enough of these unskilled folks, and the  train stops running.
the brain drain of '95 plus natural attrition has  pretty much taken care of that.
the problem seems to be in the complex wiring supporting each  customer's huge variation in passenger amenities.
their  troubles making production schedule had been going on for decades, and they  wondered if there was some "secret sauce" that boeing used.
now seattle caught the long beach disease - declining market shares and bad schedule problems.
the shares are down 26 percent from their all-time high last july, before the 787 schedule started falling behind.
first delivery was slated for the third quarter of 2009.
according to the schedule of the first 30 aircraft, qantas and air india have assumed control of spots previously held by delta.
foolishly discarding decades of systems knowledge, hard-won, in exchange for un-proven, often computerized systems, embraced for their so-called "newness" and hi-tech hype.
the  evidence is quite to the contrary.
he never responded to our offer of help, and no request for such help, to my knowledge, has ensued in the almost three months since.
some of those events, like the strike, likely occurred after the book's writing.
by way of additional comparison (these are getting ugly, aren't they?), the usaf e-3 sentry, or awacs radar airplane, was first flown in 1972, engineering test and evaluation began in oct 1975 and the first airplane was delivered in march 1977.
"we're laser focused on what needs to be done to prepare for first flight," said pat shanahan, 787 program vice president.
armstrong said the new general manager will be free to choose "his or her" (perhaps tipping his hand that dodgers assistant gm kim ng is on the short list) field manager.
i asked him to pick for himself which stage he  thought boeing was currently in.
indeed, direct quotes from mcnerney in "you can't order change" come from press releases and speeches, the endnotes indicate no interviews with him, and a boeing spokesman confirms that there were no interviews or contact with mcnerney for the book.)
but they got the gate for poor  performance - and they deserved it.
when the inevitable problems arise, they are surfaced, elevated, worked.
look at companies that have thrived when the guy in charge was a tech nerd.
as my dad used to joke, i guess we're gonna make it up in volume.
what do you folks do? -
(used to be vue-foil presentations in the "old days.")
the global product development supply model, he says, will "pay off in the long run."
boeing has been arrogant, and not in a good way  either.
the statement says boeing 787 is still under development and the contingencies so far in this period is in their expectation.
obviously, the work force, as our population in general, has changed.
in the meantime, he said, dreamliner no. 1 will proceed with as far as the taxi tests on the ground.
scott - what is the plan???
parts from everywhere  --   in wartime.
it also announced job cuts totaling 10,000 and forecast 2009 earnings that missed wall street expectations.
over and over and over again, the p.r. dept cranks out statements like these you've heard those tired old press conferences that sports coaches have with the media after yet another loss.
you need to have that sixth sense that tells you that you are out on thin ice and getting ready to fall through.
maybe if we start there, we can move on to the solutions.
contrast the book's laudatory tone for mcnerney's job at boeing since joining the company in mid-2005 with the current score card of performance: continuing problems on getting the 787 to market, the hit to its credibility with investors and customers, lingering questions about boeing's long-term production strategies, a bruising 57-day strike by machinists in this state and contentious negotiations with speea, and a stock price that is less than half of where it was earlier this year, and is below when mcnerney took over.
carolyn corvi, who previously led airplane programs, has decided to retire at the end of december after a 34-year boeing career.
time to roll out - 24 months; time to first flight - 26 months.
the next-highest compensation went to executive vice president christopher e. kubasik, who runs lockheed martin’s electronic systems business.
note: someone took me to task for 'embracing' arrogance.
additionally, the program unveiled the dreamliner gallery, a new facility in everett, wash., that provides 787 airline customers a more streamlined approach to airplane configuration.
without a big backlog of producing legacy programs, we would be in a world of hurt.
here's a tip - don't integrate the super bowl champs with the last place team.
but what is the solution?
and managed in war rooms.
i never met ex-mariner managers john mclaren or jim riggleman.
boeing's 2009 revenue outlook of $68 billion to $69 billion was in line with expectations.
boeing's percentage of "buy" in the make/buy  split, has always been way below the rest of american manufacturing.
we don't want to get nailed down by the media, and our customers.
" fancher said the issue occurred at about 18 locations on each wing, in areas no bigger than one or two square inches each.
yet three of boeing’s top four executives received hefty raises, according to data from equilar inc., an executive compensation research firm.
*** reflections on 2008 before we close the books on 2008 and depart for the holiday break i want to reflect on the past year.
"another delay, with no revised delivery schedule, and no guarantee that there will not be further push-outs," said robert stallard at bank of america, in a research note.
the current boeing management doesn't have those people -  condit got rid of them - that's why they keep standing up in front of the press  and the financial community swearing on a stack of bibles that the  "new" schedule is the real mccoy and cast in concrete.
it takes us longer to build a 747 stretched derivative airplane, than it took to design, build and certify the 747.
still, recent history -- generally and specifically -- would suggest that a degree of caution might be in order before anointing a ceo as the latest management guru.
unlike mclaren's replacement of hargrove, when the mariners gave mclaren the manager title with no strings attached, they consistently referred to riggleman as being manager for the remainder of the season.
a senior management without technical skills to sniff out problems, combined with the elimination of a layer of seasoned technical people who, in the past, have acted as advisers to make up for that deficiency.
as boeing has worried about everything but building airplanes - affirmative action goals, diversity, united way contribution levels, and employee surveys, 4 day work weeks, -- all the while - on the other hand - playing hardball with its unionized workforce - forcing strikes, and fostering shall we say - a lack of loyalty by employees - they have stopped tending to their knitting.
he took home $5,523,153, a 3% decline.
the people called themselvesthe incredibles.
not on one program, but on many.
but investors reacted sharply, sending boeing stock down $3.97, or 8.5 percent, to $42.93 after two hours of trading tuesday.
i look forward to the leadership of these individuals, and i’m counting on your support as we face the challenges and opportunities in the year ahead.
is mcnerney the right guy to correct boeing's problems?
for most of the season, mclaren stoically stood by his underachieving players, though the strain of seeing his long-awaited chance at managing slip away began to show as time went on.
back to my home page comments?
the wedgetail - well - who knows.
in addition, we’re announcing the following leadership changes:in addition, we’re announcing the following leadership changes: · scott fancher, who previously was vice president and general manager of ids missile defense systems, is named vice president and general manager of the 787 program, reporting directly to pat shanahan.
i have never met mcnerney, nor carson, nor, for that  matter, ms. dougherty.
mclaren coached 11 seasons in seattle, more than any coach in franchise history.
a first step in any such transformation is acknowledgement and recognition.
its financials continue to be supported by legacy programs that have existing production lines and large backlogs.
parts always came from outside - sometimes more, sometimes less.
after clearing this unorthodox request with the head shed, i agreed to the meeting.
in march 1944, boeing delivered 365 b-17s  from plant 2 in just the one month.
the falling economy reduces traffic and the cash flow needed to buy new equipment, and parking excess airplanes to reduce capacity certainly works against accepting new ones.
"we know our credibility is being tested on this program," said scott carson, the chief of boeing's commercial plane unit, on a conference call on wednesday.
the factset-derived consensus forecast stood at a profit of 76 cents a share.
these days, it's 'boeing talk.'
they do well because the boss  knows what's going on, or at least knows what questions to ask.
the first 747 was built while the factory buildings were built around it.
" "we're talking about a couple of parts that can literally be held in your hand," at each of the 36 locations affected, fancher said.
the chicago-based company reported a fourth-quarter loss of $56 million, or 8 cents per share, on wednesday.
the  latter transmittal included a volley of emails and snail mail letters from  retired senior executives.
(and, yes, bill allen has  always been one of my heroes - i know, he was a lawyer.
" in an apparent  bid to convince skeptics boeing will not falter as airbus has done in the final  stages of its new jet program, boeing commercial airplanes ceo scott carson  joined bair on the call.
i note, parenthetically, that the last steinway just died at 92 (of steinway & sons piano fame.)
"(that) leaves boeing investors in a difficult position.
it was a big change for an 80 year old company.
punishment of the innocent reward for  the uninvolved.
"touchy-feely" garbage jargon  and words like "leadership" are thrown around with abandon.
good ones  can instinctively smell a rat in the woodpile.
that compared with profit of $1.03 billion, or $1.36 per share, a year earlier.
promoted for an eeo scorecard.
[* note: actuals were $121m payroll; 101 losses.]
lockheed martin corp. chairman, president and ceo robert stevens took a 5% pay cut in 2008—but still made $22,863,062, including a $12.8-million cash bonus and $7.8 million in stock and option awards.
despite the iam's  posturing, boeing cannot, and has never, built, complete airplanes.
post script:  as this rant has made the rounds in draft form, a few  things became quite clear.
i never thought i'd live to see the day.
i believe they are genuinely nice people and obviously very smart.
that's $166m per airplane!
post script nbr 2 many people suggested this page be forwarded to the top management or board  of directors.
"we will overcome this set of circumstances as we have others in the past,  and we understand clearly what needs to be done moving forward."
and the cert program seemed fairly straight-forward.
"it is one of the last steps we take to ensure that the airplane, the airlines, and the infrastructure are ready for 787 revenue service."
skill dilution at a level where it can do the most harm.
it takes us longer to build a kc-135 tanker replacement using an  existing airframe, than it took to build the original kc-135.
some kids will learn to swimquickly, the others will drown.
but performance counts.
the supplier base is  messed up.
actually, quite the  opposite.
now, we don't even provide a  schedule.
engineering tracked their off-board drawing releases through the eswr system.
post script nbr 2 many people suggested this page be forwarded to the top management or board of directors.
note:  someone took me to task for 'embracing' arrogance.
my answer is "you bet!"
yet, what do we hear?
their troubles making production schedule had been going on for decades, and they wondered if there was some "secret sauce" that boeing used.
it's a true team effort - from the days before they had  team players (a boeing euphemism for"yes-man.")  from the days  before they bragged about "working together," and painted that on the  side of the airplanes.
bob, its a very tough situation and as such, calls for tough measures.
here's the "secret sauce" - once you agree to your portion of the schedule - you're expected to meet it! '
john worked extremely hard to make this club better.
watanabe intends to take responsibility for toyota's operating loss forecast of $1.7 billion for the year ending in march, said one of the people, who asked not to be identified because a decision hasn't been announced.
cargo industry sources say that near-term capacity could be provided by readily-available 747-400 freighters combined with boeing-supplied conversions of ex-passenger -400s.
it excuses abject program performance with almost incoherent whining and drivel.
you know, harry, the green bay packers were 'arrogant' too, and so were the new york yankees.
``i told him boeing is arrogant."
hq  definitely seems a little - shall we say "thin" - in technical depth,  and that deficiency, along with the distance, is really starting to bite.
as you know, we currently have a record jetliner backlog, while at the same time we have encountered challenges in our airplane development programs and within our supply chain.
marlin, who most recently led the commercial airplanes sales efforts in europe, russia and central asia, reports directly to me.
off in the wispy distance can be seen a  line of sioux warriors, coming over a distant ridge.................
shares of boeing rose 99 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $44.21 in late morning trade.
japanese airline all nippon airways (ana) issued a brief statement all but pleading for information on when it can get its airplane.
"they had to  transplant all the olive trees," bair said.
off-board drawing releases were made to the factory when they  were complete.
its ethics problems are the meat of pundits, and have cost major contracts, bidding opportunities, and huge fines.
by david andriesen p-i reporter john mclaren will not.
on behalf of everyone at commercial airplanes and the entire boeing enterprise, i want to thank carolyn for her outstanding vision and leadership in transforming our production system and dramatically improving our productivity throughout her career.
"touchy-feely" garbage jargon and words like "leadership" are thrown around with abandon.
a lot of this loss was also the corporation's own  doing.
good  bean counters - people like harold haynes - needed to be on the sidelines  keeping the engineers honest.
maybe those words need to  be spoken again.
the people called  themselvesthe incredibles.
"our tools have enabled us to model the entire production process from our partners' factories to our own.
and the story offered for public consumption is often far different from what's observed by those on the inside, when it comes to assessing credit and blame.
the result can be like tossing your kids in the middle of the  lake.
actually, it was a vice i preached against during my working years.
fast forward a few years, and douglas - long beach now had a boeing sign on their big office building in long beach.
scott brings demonstrated leadership in program management, systems integration and technology development to the 787 program.
bair has been responsible for all aspects of the 787 program since its launch in 2004.
american banker, after all, famously named washington mutual's kerry killinger its 2001 "banker of the year," a recognition it is unlikely to repeat for 2008.
our first airplane is going  to be almost two years from rollout to first flight!
where is the accountability?
(and, yes, bill allen has always been one of my heroes - i know, he was a lawyer.
these dumb press releases, and letters to employees, and  absurd articles in the company magazine really need to stop.
"we also have to consider how this will affect suppliers like spirit, rockwell collins and goodrich," nisbet said.
the delay was first reported by business week.
condit and stonecipher made sure the company we bought for $16 billion didn't feel they were playing second fiddle to a bunch of cocky know-it-alls in seattle.
i guess it's true - the first six are basket cases......
here's the "secret sauce"  -  once you agree to your  portion of the schedule - you're expected to meet it!
some of the hardest things i did as a  manager were relieving people who were 'nice guys', in fact some were good  personal friends.
all of these appointments reflect great depth and strength in our management team and position us for continued success.
i have never met mcnerney, nor carson, nor, for that matter, ms. dougherty.
this time, we  wanted them to do some design and stuffing work, without ever providing the  needed support.
the company’s net income was down 34% from 2007 and its share price declined by more than 50%.
previously, this was done at various locations around the world."
despite its healthier order book, the 747-8f could also need re-examining.
it's business model seems more a reflection of the 'fad of the month' club and in any event is poorly executed.
no  manufacturer does.
not on one  program, but on many.
the supplier base is messed up.
airplanes - affirmative action  goals, diversity, united way contribution levels, and employee surveys, 4 day  work weeks, -- all the while - on the other hand - playing hardball with its  unionized workforce - forcing strikes, and fostering shall we say - a lack of  loyalty by employees - they have stopped tending to their knitting.
whether its too  late or not, is hard to tell.
and, this isn't one or two programs.
but they do build a helluva fancy resume.
" 20 jan 2009 everett, wash., dec. 11, 2008 -- boeing [nyse: ba] today announced an updated schedule for its all-new 787 dreamliner program that moves the commercial jet's first flight into the second quarter of 2009 and first delivery into the first quarter of 2010.
in some cases it has meant dispatching teams of boeing employees to suppliers and subcontractors to unsnarl snags and correct production problems.
i have collected some of the comments and have placed them here: http://www.rbogash.com/boeing_comments.html you can also contact me, either through my home page links or more directly at this address.
but as the book notes later, mcnerney's objectives of relying more on suppliers "were ambitious, and in seeking to achieve them, he ran into problems."
they each have  their own war rooms.
but i think i speak for many  people who have written me, we are all concerned with our alma mater and most  are willing to try and help right the ship.
failure is accepted.
dec 23, 2008 18:35:39 (et) copyright 2008 - 2009 by robert bogash.
they all have rough spots in the road that must be overcome.
the unions ought to  think about that before they go mouthing off about suppliers.
maybe p.c.  will work in seattle politics or bridge and ferry repairs (or school  achievement scores), but in the cold harsh world of building commercial  airplanes, at some point the rubber is gonna meet the road.
bob bogash * the title borrowed from the "turnaround king, the tennessee hillbilly" - harry stonecipher- "that is not acceptable," stonecipher said."
update: on 4 may 2009, boeing announced another 787 program re-organization.
instead, what has clearly happened - from my knothole - is for people to be promoted beyond their skills, experience, and abilities.
"we'll work hard and we'll work jointly to bring eads back on course," former co-chief executive noel forgeard's replacement, louis gallois, said in a joint statement with german co-ceo tom enders, who survived the reshuffle.
and does the global development and supply model really work, or does it generate more problems than it solves?
jsa research cut boeing's stock rating to hold from buy, saying it needs more clarity from boeing on 787 plans.
programs need to be managed.
i didn't think they'd start building 747s near the loop.
and to think, we paid for this.
it's an amazing journey from where we started just four years ago.
look at companies that have thrived when  the  guy in charge was a tech nerd.
the u.s.-educated toyoda, 52, is the first founding family member to take the helm at japan's no. 1 automaker in 14 years.
like watching griffey shag fly balls, or horowitz play the piano, or peggy  fleming ice skate, pro's make it look easy.
the brewingperfect storm demands more in the way of management skills at the very time when boeing seems to have lost them completely.
clearly, 2008 has been another eventful year for boeing commercial airplanes and for the everett site.
boeing delivered just 50 planes in the last three months of 2008, compared with 112 planes during the same period a year earlier.
these were basic boeing skills, learned from the time you got  your first badge.
virtually all boeing airplanes have made their first flights within 3-4 months following rollout.
it will arrive in seattle already painted and ready to participate in the ongoing flight test program."
the purpose of this message is to acknowledge the myriad other activities that have taken place on the everett site to reduce the site’s impact on the environment and improve office space and the flow of people and vehicles and material.
"our industry team has made progress with structural testing, systems hardware qualification, and production, but we must adjust our schedule for these two unexpected disruptions," said boeing commercial airplanes president and ceo scott carson.
we  are unable to manage large programs - our ultimate core competency.
phil and harry moved the hq there, amid a lot of wailing by the locals.
jsa research analyst paul nisbet said the results were "surprisingly poor," noting the unexpected charge for the new 747 jumbo jet.
the first test airplanes came together pretty well.
the company, which last week confirmed the flight schedule, said it may take several weeks to redo its schedule for the first 787 flight, and for first delivery of the aircraft, earlier planned for early 2010.
starting with maureen, perhaps, (nothing personal, maureen), and working up from there.
analysts polled by thomson reuters, on average, expected earnings of 78 cents in the fourth quarter.
they made it look easy -- it wasn't  easy.
many of you have seen a message from your respective program or organization leaders this week in that regard.
(see the article at the bottom) - visit work areas to "thank people for a job well done."
without a big backlog of producing legacy programs, we would be in a  world of hurt.
during the ceremony, bair said that the first production wire bundle had been delivered from labinal to korean air's aerospace division for installation in the wing tip being manufactured in korea.
if you want to run a baking company, you better know a hell of a lot about baking!"
for they remember 'back when.'
buyers would appear weekly before management, and would do anything to ensure that they had their supplier's part situation under control.
we do not  "understand what needs to be done", and the 787 program, in  particular, is not a "success."
3 jul 2006 toyota president katsuaki watanabe may be replaced next year by akio toyoda, grandson of the company's founder, after forecasting the first loss in 70 years, people familiar with the matter said.
the current boeing management doesn't have those people - condit got rid of them - that's why they keep standing up in front of the press and the financial community swearing on a stack of bibles that the "new" schedule is the real mccoy and cast in concrete.
headquarters is too removed from the action, and what's worse, the seattle operating units do their best (from what i'm told) to keep them in the dark.
mike bair, vice president and general manager of the 787 program, hosted the event.
hero worship of corporate ceos was out of favor even before the stock market and the economy took a header, and it won't be until well after the calamity has passed that we know who really could run a company and who just talked a good game.
he promised a reaffirmation of the company's core principles, such as valuing ideas from the ranks - a management approach called "kaizen" that has made toyota motor corp.'s production methods famous in industry circles around the world.
quite a  few wind up in very high positions.
our ethics are suspect, and our credibility is zero.
parts were built and  inspected to those data sets.