conservatives love to scream about solyndra but say almost nothing about the chinese subsidies are are killing the western pv solar companies.
critical condition stop the birther nonsense: i hadn’t realized that some folks . . .
yes, the  giant manufacturer boeing.
i will leave the conclusion to david stockman, because of his points’ incredible relevance in today’s politics.
it’s curious, then, that some u.s. companies, conservative groups and  lawmakers are arguing against reauthorizing the export-import bank of theunited  states, whose sole purpose is to help strengthen the economy and create jobs by  supporting the nation’s exports.
let them lose in november and perhaps there will be enough despair to produce a new party in which a few of the representatives know something about economics.
in the book, the triumph of politics, stockman does a great job at exposing the  export subsidies as a mercantilism illusion based on the strange idea that a  country — in this case the united states — can raise its employment  and produce wealth by selling its goods for less than they cost to produce.
it is an important message to  republicans in particular and it applies to all forms of subsidies (oil, gas,  wind, small businesses, manufacturers, automobiles, banks, and others).
with this paper, james is following in the steps of david stockman who,  over 20 years ago, called for the termination of the ex-im bank.
given the heave-ho to the well-heeled lobbyists of the big corporations who keep the whole scam alive would be dramatic proof that we meant business, not business-as-usual.
i think we can all agree that a free market without government distortion is more efficient, but what is the best move when other countries decide to take advantage of your naiveté?reply to this comment link report
but here is one thing we know: boeing or any other aircraft manufacturer isn't going to survive just because they make the best product at the best price that the world has ever known.
this is an  agency that is in the business of subsidizing private companies with taxpayer  dollars.
if a company can’t stay in business on its own, that is probably because  it is trying to sell stuff that consumers don’t want to buy.
the corner david brooks can’t shake the mets: like me, new york . . .
these days, you can't sell major commercial aircraft that way.
i am more than happy to explain why we should get rid of the export-import bank.
the editors: conspiracy, again comments (383) jonah goldberg: birth-control agitprop comments (85) charles c. w. cooke: the not-so-bitter pill comments (91) john fund: danger signals for romney comments (169)
abuse let me discuss the following point: "moreover, what does it tell you about boeing and its ability to fly on its own without the help of taxpayers that the bank has been providing for decades?
it is an important message to republicans in particular and it applies to all forms of subsidies (oil, gas, wind, small businesses, manufacturers, automobiles, banks, and others).
also, while advocates for the programs claim that the bank takes  risk that the private sector is unwilling to take (i wonder why the private  sector will, year after year, pass up supposedly great opportunities), the  bank’s lending activity is almost certainly irrelevant, since so few u.s.  exports are supported through ex-im bank activities.
in  a way, we can think of the bank as a charitable organization with an  international bent.
also, while advocates for the programs claim that the bank takes risk that the private sector is unwilling to take (i wonder why the private sector will, year after year, pass up supposedly great opportunities), the bank’s lending activity is almost certainly irrelevant, since so few u.s. exports are supported through ex-im bank activities.
u.s. exports have been a rare bright spot in an otherwise sluggish economy,  increasing by about 20 percent over the last two years and driving about half  of all economic growth.
if  that’s the case, why should consumers then have to buy the goods or the  service indirectly through their taxes?
your name * nro articles | article rss | author directory romney wins guam caucuses: in a statement to the press, . . .
did the world's #1 manufacturer of landing gear just forget how to do it, and then miraculously it turns out the brits are the best place to go if you want landing gear for a type of plane they themselves never even built?
he  writes: i had long insisted, to any liberals who would listen, that the supply-side  revolution would be different from the corrupted opportunism of the organized  business groups; that it would go after weak claims like boeing’s, not  just weak clients such as food stamp recipients.
it’s curious, then, that some u.s. companies, conservative groups and lawmakers are arguing against reauthorizing the export-import bank of theunited states, whose sole purpose is to help strengthen the economy and create jobs by supporting the nation’s exports.
this really isn't a rant against what you wrote.
the agenda watching the same ‘change’:
boeing is the best manufacturer of this type of aircraft in the world.
the truth, he explains, is that “export subsidies  subtract from gdp and jobs, not expand them.”
with the help of the federal government guarantees, the  company gained contracts from airlines like air china and air india.
as james explains, the bank not only picks winners and losers by guaranteeing the loans of private companies, but it also introduces unfair competition for all the u.s. firms that do not benefit from such special treatment.
given that it's not what happened, maybe we shouldn't spend so much intellectual and financial resources on the gop.
in a way, we can think of the bank as a charitable organization with an international bent.
boeing, in turn, figured out that the only way airlines around the world would buy their planes over airbus is if they handed over the manufacture of the plane to the countries where these government-financed airlines were based.
media blog sebelius: what deficit?
first, the ex-im bank is nothing more than corporate welfare.
more importantly, the idea that export subsidies will create jobs and increase gdp is yet another example of the single-entry-bookkeeping mentality that has larded the federal budget with so many subsidies and payments to special interests.
an excellent paper by cato institute’s trade analyst sallie james  exposes just how unseemly, inefficient, and irrelevant the export-import  bank is.
don't get me started on the chinese policy of technology transfer or the eu ag policy...
not surprisingly, as a result, in 2011 boeing “accounted for 45.6%, or $40.7 billion, of exim’s total exposure in fiscal 2011.”
we give up comments (83) george weigel: obama’s contraception spin machine comments (136)
reply to this comment link report abuse
bench memos victor davis hanson:
but, stockman was wrong.
but to answer your original question, what i know is that boeing has the best technology, and the best manufacturing know-how to build the 787, and they had to farm all of that work out to substandard companies around the world if they hoped to sell the airlines in those countries any of the their planes.
get free nro newsletters log
u.s. exports have been a rare bright spot in an otherwise sluggish economy, increasing by about 20 percent over the last two years and driving about half of all economic growth.
by  veronique  de rugy march 8, 2012 4:06 p.m. comments  4 that’s the question asked by the editors over at bloomberg  view.
however, not good for delta or other u.s. companies that  have to compete with air china and its new discounted boeing planes.
in to post a comment comments 4 expand veronique, the problem with all of your arguments against the ex-im is that they presuppose a fair global playing field for boeing.
not surprisingly, as a result, in 2011 boeing  “accounted for 45.6%, or $40.7 billion, of exim’s total exposure in  fiscal 2011.”
reply to this comment link report abuse add a comment already registered?
why would anyone be against the export-import bank?by veronique de rugy that’s the question asked by the editors over at bloomberg view.
the campaign spot chris hughes, facebook founder and obama organizer, buys the new . . .
this is an agency that is in the business of subsidizing private companies with taxpayer dollars.
with this paper, james is following in the steps of david stockman who, over 20 years ago, called for the termination of the ex-im bank.
did boeing just decide they no longer knew how to make airplane doors, and that's why they had to subcontract those out to france?
the truth, he explains, is that “export subsidies subtract from gdp and jobs, not expand them.”
if that’s the case, why should consumers then have to buy the goods or the service indirectly through their taxes?
as james explains, the bank not only picks winners and losers by  guaranteeing the loans of private companies, but it also introduces unfair  competition for all the u.s. firms that do not benefit from such special  treatment.
it is unseemly and i will never understand why anyone would think that  it is a role of the federal government to help private companies make money,  pay their employees, get loans, or produce goods or services at home or abroad.
however, not good for delta or other u.s. companies that have to compete with air china and its new discounted boeing planes.
washington, listen up.
over on the home page, my . . .
it is unseemly and i will never understand why anyone would think that it is a role of the federal government to help private companies make money, pay their employees, get loans, or produce goods or services at home or abroad.
given the heave-ho to the  well-heeled lobbyists of the big corporations who keep the whole scam alive  would be dramatic proof that we meant business, not business-as-usual.
about this blog archive e-mail rss send
more importantly, the idea that export subsidies will create jobs and  increase gdp is yet another example of the single-entry-bookkeeping mentality  that has larded the federal budget with so many subsidies and payments to  special interests.
the wall street journal, for instance, reported on saturday that “in a  letter to congress last month, delta estimated that ex-im cost the u.s. airline  industry up to 7,500 jobs and $684 million a year.”
moreover, what does it tell you about boeing and its ability to fly on its  own without the help of taxpayers that the bank has been providing for decades?
if a company can’t stay in business on its own, that is probably because it is trying to sell stuff that consumers don’t want to buy.
i will leave the conclusion to david stockman, because of his points’  incredible relevance in today’s politics.
an excellent paper by cato institute’s trade analyst sallie james exposes just how unseemly, inefficient, and irrelevant the export-import bank is.
reply to this comment link report abuse let me discuss the following point: "moreover, what does it tell you about boeing and its ability to fly on its own without the help of taxpayers that the bank has been providing for decades?" this question is worded wrong.
with the help of the federal government guarantees, the company gained contracts from airlines like air china and air india.
yes, the giant manufacturer boeing.
but along came a government consortium called airbus who could offer financing on their planes that no private company could match because the financing came from european governments who could just print the money they needed.
moreover, what does it tell you about boeing and its ability to fly on its own without the help of taxpayers that the bank has been providing for decades?
you write about the exim bank but not about the french and german support for airbus.
and korea aerospace for the stabilizers?
bolduc: romney wins guam caucuses comments (1) costa: santorum hires vitter aide comments (0) loyola: natural allies, false analogies, and the contraception mandate comments (0) log
in | register follow us everywhere march 19 issue subscribe to nr renew march 19 issue | subscribe | renew the corner the one and only.
" this question is worded wrong.
one of the biggest special interests, in this case, is boeing.
very few americans are supportive of corporate welfare (liberal term) or crony capitalism (conservative term), but unfortunately many instances of us government support are in direct response to anticompetitive behavior by other governments.
that's not what happened.
my latest column: the individual mandate and invisible government:
about this blog archive e-mail rss send print    |  text why would anyone be against the export-import bank?
in the book, the triumph of politics, stockman does a great job at exposing the export subsidies as a mercantilism illusion based on the strange idea that a country — in this case the united states — can raise its employment and produce wealth by selling its goods for less than they cost to produce.
the right question is "what does it tell you about the industry for the manufacture of major commercial aircraft (say about 100 to 600 passengers) that no company in the world can fly on its own without government involvement?" why, when boeing's ability to manufacture wings is infinitely superior to mitsubishi's previously non-existent capabilities did boeing farm out the wing manufacture to japan?
he writes: i had long insisted, to any liberals who would listen, that the supply-side revolution would be different from the corrupted opportunism of the organized business groups; that it would go after weak claims like boeing’s, not just weak clients such as food stamp recipients.
the obama administration’s top spokesperson . . .
i am more than happy to explain why we should get rid of the export-import  bank.
according to the washington examiner ’s tim carney, in 2009, 90 percent of the loan guarantees issued by the bank went to subsidize boeing.
according to the washington examiner ’s tim carney, in 2009, 90 percent of the loan guarantees issued by the  bank went to subsidize boeing.
the wall street journal, for instance, reported on saturday that “in a letter to congress last month, delta estimated that ex-im cost the u.s. airline industry up to 7,500 jobs and $684 million a year.”