update, november 21: we inadvertently linked the podcast reference to a nice environmental story-we fixed it.
do we agree or disagree?
categories: boeing  tags:boeing, speea november 11, 2008 leave a comment what is the difference between a pidgeon and an investment banker?
(once northrop got running, it did make up for lost ground and scored  some great pr/advertising hits.)
all four carriers are 787 customers affected by the delays.
update, november 11: lan chile just announced the acquisition of four 767-300ers for delivery starting in 2012 to accommodate delays in its 787 order.
the strike vote of the general membership will proceed soon thereafter (next week or so), says ray goforth, the executive director of the engineers’ union.
boeing previously booked an order for nine 767s for all nippon airways, a  customer affected by delays with the 787.
original post: a strike authorization vote by speea members is scheduled for tomorrow in  the contract negotiations with boeing, but it’s likely to be postponed  until a final offer comes in from boeing.
if the  competition is completely restarted, worse-case, it could take up to four  years.
it’s unclear how the department of defense and the air force will  handle the new round of kc-x competition.
“a great deal of progress has been made,” said speea executive director and chief spokesperson ray goforth.
for legal reasons, we are interested in your experience if contacted by  management.
this type of employee polling is not acceptable as part of the  collective bargaining process and is affecting our ability to successfully  conclude our contract negotiations with the company.
we criticized northrop for being slow off the pr and advertising mark in 2007, letting boeing’s well-oiled machine set the agenda and frame the debate.
with four million people expected for the inauguration of barak obama and the organization of the power structure in congress, we suspect the members of congress might just be focused on something else right now.
the current backlog and production rate gives boeing four years to keep the line open.
they expect a year’s delay.
(it  apparently mattered not that ids has a large facility in huntsville, al.)
original post: a strike authorization vote by speea members is scheduled for tomorrow in the contract negotiations with boeing, but it’s likely to be postponed until a final offer comes in from boeing.
by mutual agreement, specific details of the responses and  counterproposals will not be available until negotiations conclude.
the iam had a vote in july that long preceded the actual strike vote september 3.
the iam  had a vote in july that long preceded the actual strike vote  september 3.
this short item ishere.
one quote from the story that is filled with irony is: “if i was a boeing executive, i’d look at the state of alabama and see there’s a qualified work force …
boeing announced a nine month-long delay, in part due to engineering  resource issues.
dod hasn’t said if it will  simply restart the competition suspended from the gao decision upholding the  boeing protest or completely restart the competition.
(good news, that is, which originates from the bad-news 787 delays, of course.)
join 998 other followers get every new post delivered to your inbox.
this follows  comments by boeing commercial airplanes president scott carson at a credit  suisse conference saying so.
categories: air force tanker, boeing, northrop  tags:air force tanker, boeing, kc-x, northrop were they at the same meetings?
economic issues and boeing’s desire to severe the utah engineers from the main speea contract remain unsettled.
read more… categories: boeing tags: boeing, speea older  entries
categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, northrop  tags:airbus, boeing, kc-30, kc-767, northrop is boeing fundamentally sound?
speea scheduled a strike authorization vote by the council (speea’s
nobody knows who the decision-makers in the pentagon will be (and in any event, they shouldn’t be influenced by ads) and we doubt members of congress are paying much attention to the tanker debate right now anyway.
ilfc is the largest customer of airbus and boeing.
i’d take a look at the assets we have,” said stephen nodine, president of the mobile county commission, whose offices are in mobile, ala. alabama, of course, is the proposed site for the northrop grumman/airbus kc-30 tanker proposed in competition with boeing’s kc-767, which will be assembled in the seattle area if boeing ultimately wins the contract.
this is good news for boeing in keeping the 767 line active while boeing competes for the kc-x contract.
boeing announced a nine month-long delay, in part due to engineering resource issues.
a simple majority “yes” vote  gives the negotiation teams authority to call a strike if necessary.
read more…categories: boeing tags: boeing, speea enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, northrop tags:airbus, boeing, kc-30, kc-767, northrop addison schonland and richard aboulafia join us in a 19 minute podcast discussing whether boeing is fundamentally and structurally sound.
meanwhile, the french news service afp reports airbus may not deliver  all  a380s next year originally planned.
categories: boeing tags: boeing, scott  carson delta to buy from boeing–and airbus november 17, 2008 2  comments james wallace today confirmed what we predicted from the get-go when delta  air lines and northwest airlines announced its merger months ago: that delta,  long a solid boeing customer, will buy from airbus.
i’d take a  look at the assets we have,” said stephen nodine, president of the mobile  county commission, whose offices are in mobile, ala. alabama, of course, is the proposed site for the northrop grumman/airbus  kc-30 tanker proposed in competition with boeing’s kc-767, which will be  assembled in the seattle area if boeing ultimately wins the contract.
november 6, 2008 1 comment boeing and speea have two very different views of the progress of the  bargaining to date and contract offer that was presented by boeing to the  engineers’ union thursday.
this is a highly positive development for the airline industry.
the press release is here.
the deal has to close (next year)
categories:boeing tags: 747 delay, boeing speea strike authorization vote set november 13, 2008 leave a  comment negotiations between boeing and speea appear to have taken a discouraging  turn.
speculation has been rampant (in peaks and valleys) that boeing might  be fed up with its unions in heavily unionized washington state and be looking  south when it comes time to build its next airplane (or two).
speea scheduled a strike authorization vote by the council (speea’s parliament) to authorize a strike vote by the membership.
(we can’t do anything about the type size differences–there is no hidden meaning in the different sizes in the following messages.)
and it remains to be seen how it is structured and what flexibility the company  has in the future.
with four million people expected for the inauguration  of barak obama and the organization of the power structure in congress, we  suspect the members of congress might just be focused on something else right  now.
november 21, 2008 1 comment steve wilhelm of the puget sound business journal (seattle) has a long story about southern states “eyeing” boeing in the wake of the iam  strike.
but as is often the case, the devil is in the details.
categories: boeing tags: boeing, speea 767 sales keep line alive for tanker november 10, 2008 leave a  comment boeing last week announced an order for four more 767s (in this case,  -300ers) that help keep the line alive pending a new competition for the usaf  aerial tanker.
and speaking of tankers, northrop didn’t even wait for the new  congress and the new president to take office before resuming the tanker wars  with an advertisement that got the pentagon’s chief purchaser up in arms
but what  is more ironic is that boeing’s integrated defense systems denigrated the  skills of the alabama workers during the tanker competition, suggesting they  might have trouble building a tricycle if northrop got the tanker contract.
flight testing and delivery of the 747-8 will be delayed.
“a great deal of progress has been made,” said speea executive director and chief spokesperson ray  goforth.
the bargaining unit councils each voted unanimously to hold a  member vote on strike authorization.
many of the contract provisions  proposed by boeing are similar to those offered to the iam, which rejected the  boeing contract and struck for 58 days.
speea said that if it strikes, one will come in january or february, just about the time boeing returns to pre-iam strike production levels.
we’ve been reporting a creeping delay in the program, initially six months, then nine and most recently one year.
japan air lines is expected to take nine 767s as well; there are nine listed on boeing’s website as unidentified–these are believed to be jal’s.
but as is  often the case, the devil is in the details.
we criticized northrop for being slow off the pr and advertising mark in  2007, letting boeing’s well-oiled machine set the agenda and frame the  debate.
early this week, speea negotiation teams made some major moves  in an attempt to bring negotiations to a successful close.
categories: uncategorized november 10, 2008 leave a comment update, november 11: we’re cautiously optimistic a  settlement will be reached without a strike.
the best description is that the situation is highly fluid and uncertain.
categories: airbus, boeing tags: airbus, boeing, ilfc boeing and the southern strategy?
the current backlog and  production rate gives boeing four years to keep the line open.
categories: boeing tags: boeing, scott carson james wallace today confirmed what we predicted from the get-go when delta air lines and northwest airlines announced its merger months ago: that delta, long a solid boeing customer, will buy from airbus.
if the competition is completely restarted, worse-case, it could take up to four years.
it owns and manages a fleet of slight more than 1,000 planes with a value of $55 billion.
the bargaining unit councils each voted unanimously to hold a member vote on strike authorization.
this improper  communications is being used by boeing negotiators to gauge what is an  acceptable contract offer for speea members.
the strike vote  of the general membership will proceed soon thereafter (next week or so), says  ray goforth, the executive director of the engineers’ union.
(we can’t do anything about the  type size differences–there is no hidden meaning in the different sizes  in the following messages.)
(it apparently mattered not that ids has a large facility in huntsville, al.)
boeing’s production rate is currently one a month but it likely will  go to two a month as early as 2010.
categories: boeing tags:boeing, speea what is the difference between a pidgeon and an investment banker?
nobody knows who the decision-makers in  the pentagon will be (and in any event, they shouldn’t be influenced by  ads) and we doubt members of congress are paying much attention to the tanker  debate right now anyway.
if the former, a decision could be rendered within a year and the 767 production rate is moot.
the action  comes after two days of non-productive and discouraging dialog with boeing over  key economic issues, including wages, pensions, medical benefits and the  company’s ongoing attempts to strip utah engineers from the professional  contract.
if this is like the iam process, a strike authorization is different from an actual strike vote.
it’s sort of a sense of the membership.
hazy has deal to buy ilfc november 22, 2008 leave a comment bloomberg news has a story quoting the head of mega-lessor saying he has a  deal to buy international lease finance corp. from insurance giant aig.
read about this onehere and here.
below is the boeing communique issued by chief negotiation doug kight; the speea response follows.
despite the efforts, boeing negotiators remain convinced they can force speea members to accept a contract that keeps wages below market, removes pensions for new hires and opens the door to fragmenting bargaining units into smaller and smaller groups of employees.
there are now 68 unfilled orders listed on boeing’s web site for the 767.
wallace is the aerospace writer for the seattle post-intelligencer; his  story may be foundhere.
categories: airbus, boeing tags: airbus, boeing, ilfc steve wilhelm of the puget sound business journal (seattle) has a long story about southern states “eyeing” boeing in the wake of the iam strike.
a pidgeon can still leave a deposit on a bmw.categories:
join 998 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
managers improperly poll members speea has heard that some managers are polling employees in the workplace  about their views on terms and conditions of employment.
economic  issues and boeing’s desire to severe the utah engineers from the main  speea contract remain unsettled.
parliament) to authorize a strike vote by the membership.
(once northrop got running, it did make up for lost ground and scored some great pr/advertising hits.)
managers improperly poll members speea has heard that some managers are polling employees in the workplace about their views on terms and conditions of employment.
update, november 11: lan chile just announced the  acquisition of four 767-300ers for delivery starting in 2012 to accommodate  delays in its 787 order.
main table talks started oct. 29 after eight months of negotiations in committees.
if this is like the iam process, a strike authorization is different from  an actual strike vote.
there are now 68 unfilled orders listed on boeing’s web site for the  767.
a pidgeon can still leave a deposit on a bmw.
right now things don’t look encouraging
but this advertisement, and more so it’s  timing, strikes us as very premature.
this type of employee polling is not acceptable as part of the collective bargaining process and is affecting our ability to successfully conclude our contract negotiations with the company.
uncategorized update, november 11: we’re cautiously optimistic a settlement will be reached without a strike.
it owns and manages a  fleet of slight more than 1,000 planes with a value of $55 billion.
main table talks started oct. 29 after eight months of negotiations  in committees.
another airline  ordered two 767s.
(good news, that is, which originates from the  bad-news 787 delays, of course.)
boeing previously booked an order for nine 767s for all nippon airways, a customer affected by delays with the 787.
another airline ordered two 767s.
if the former, a decision  could be rendered within a year and the 767 production rate is moot.
early this week, speea negotiation teams made some major moves in an attempt to bring negotiations to a successful close.
categories: airbus, boeing tags: airbus, boeing, delta air lines boeing just announced what we were the first to predict nearly a year ago: flight testing and delivery of the 747-8 will be delayed.
speculation has been rampant (in peaks and valleys) that boeing might be fed up with its unions in heavily unionized washington state and be looking south when it comes time to build its next airplane (or two).
categories: air force tanker, boeing, northrop tags:air force tanker, boeing, kc-x, northrop boeing and speea have two very different views of the progress of the bargaining to date and contract offer that was presented by boeing to the engineers’ union thursday.
despite the efforts,  boeing negotiators remain convinced they can force speea members to accept a  contract that keeps wages below market, removes pensions for new hires and  opens the door to fragmenting bargaining units into smaller and smaller groups  of employees.
but they also don’t  seem quite as bleak at the situation preceding the iam contract votes.
japan air lines is expected to take  nine 767s as well; there are nine listed on boeing’s website as  unidentified–these are believed to be jal’s.
boeing’s commercial unit cringed at the ids statement because the  northrop/airbus production model isn’t that different from bca’s  assembly model, including the high-profile 787 program (in which case ids may  have a point) but to a lesser degree with the 767 itself.
speea  issued this statement: boeing stalls negotiations – council issues strike  authorization vote – managers improperly poll members with the boeing company stalling on responding to speea  counterproposals, the northwest council on thursday authorized a member vote  seeking strike authorization power for the professional and technical  negotiating teams.
the speea contract expires december 1.
many of the contract provisions proposed by boeing are similar to those offered to the iam, which rejected the boeing contract and struck for 58 days.
this improper communications is being used by boeing negotiators to gauge what is an acceptable contract offer for speea members.
customers tell us they expect a year’s delay.
and speaking of tankers, northrop didn’t even wait for the new congress and the new president to take office before resuming the tanker wars with an advertisement that got the pentagon’s chief purchaser up in arms (so to speak).
categories: boeing tags: boeing, speea boeing last week announced an order for four more 767s (in this case, -300ers) that help keep the line alive pending a new competition for the usaf aerial tanker.
below is the boeing communique issued by chief negotiation  doug kight; the speea response follows.
the deal has to close (next year) and it remains to be seen how it is structured and what flexibility the company has in the future.
before the 767 orders were placed to take care of 787 customer delays,  the backlog was about four years at one a month.
one quote from the story that is filled with irony is: “if i was a boeing executive, i’d look at the state of  alabama and see there’s a qualified work force …
categories: airbus, boeing tags: airbus, boeing,  delta air lines 747-8 delayed by 9 months november 14, 2008 leave a comment boeing just announced what we were the first to predict nearly a year ago:
but they also don’t seem quite as bleak at the situation preceding the iam contract votes.
“it would be unfortunate for customers, shareholders and employees of boeing if we can’t reach a deal at the bargaining table.”
meanwhile, the french news service afp reports airbus may not deliver all a380s next year originally planned.
dod hasn’t said if it will simply restart the competition suspended from the gao decision upholding the boeing protest or completely restart the competition.
“it would be unfortunate for customers, shareholders and  employees of boeing if we can’t reach a deal at the bargaining  table.”
wallace is the aerospace writer for the seattle post-intelligencer; his story may be foundhere.
by mutual agreement, specific details of the responses and counterproposals will not be available until negotiations conclude.
boeing’s commercial unit cringed at the ids statement because the northrop/airbus production model isn’t that different from bca’s assembly model, including the high-profile 787 program (in which case ids may have a point) but to a lesser degree with the 767 itself.
update, november 21: we inadvertently linked the podcast reference to a nice environmental  story-we fixed it.
for legal reasons, we are interested in your experience if contacted by management.
but what is more ironic is that boeing’s integrated defense systems denigrated the skills of the alabama workers during the tanker competition, suggesting they might have trouble building a tricycle if northrop got the tanker contract.
this follows comments by boeing commercial airplanes president scott carson at a credit suisse conference saying so.
we’ve been reporting a creeping delay in the program,  initially six months, then nine and most recently one year.
it’s unclear how the department of defense and the air force will handle the new round of kc-x competition.
november 20, 2008 leave a comment addison schonland and richard aboulafia join us in a 19 minute podcast  discussing whether boeing is fundamentally and structurally sound.
the action comes after two days of non-productive and discouraging dialog with boeing over key economic issues, including wages, pensions, medical benefits and the company’s ongoing attempts to strip utah engineers from the professional contract.
this is good news for boeing in keeping the 767 line active while boeing  competes for the kc-x contract.
speea said that if it strikes, one will  come in january or february, just about the time boeing returns to pre-iam  strike production levels.
bloomberg news has a story quoting the head of mega-lessor saying he has a deal to buy international lease finance corp. from insurance giant aig.
before the 767 orders were placed to take care of 787 customer delays, the backlog was about four years at one a month.
categories:boeing tags: 747 delay, boeing negotiations between boeing and speea appear to have taken a discouraging turn.
a simple majority “yes” vote gives the negotiation teams authority to call a strike if necessary.
but this advertisement, and more so it’s timing, strikes us as very premature.
update, 9:30 pm pst: speea issued this statement: boeing stalls negotiations – council issues strike authorization vote – managers improperly poll members with the boeing company stalling on responding to speea counterproposals, the northwest council on thursday authorized a member vote seeking strike authorization power for the professional and technical negotiating teams.
boeing’s production rate is currently one a month but it likely will go to two a month as early as 2010.