final results aren’t expected to be counted until late tonight  (seattle time), but we’re geared up to post results as soon as we have  them this evening.
“performance” is now the only thing that will count–not predictions and projections by boeing.
shanahan still oversees the program, as well as the troubled 747-8 development, but a new person, also from ids, has been appointed to directly manage the 787 program.
cowen & co. predicts 2q10; jp  morgan and goldman predict delivery will be a year after the first flight.
all 717s  are to be returned by the end of this year.
the seattle times has this year-end story, looking at airbus and boeing.
any additional skeptical notes could extend the stock’s year-to-date drop of 55%.
meanwhile, thomson financial reports that the stock’s average 12-month price target rests at $57.11 per share – a 47% premium to the stock’s monday close at $38.74.
boeing wants to get the program moving, but insiders tell us that there  remain risks and uncertainties that continue to cast doubts on any schedule
“we will share the details of future enhancements when we have decided to implement them,” young said.
schaffers also has this related item: the boeing company (ba: sentiment, chart, options) was broadsided with  another bearish brokerage note this morning, marking the second straight  session of negative news from the analyst community.
as today’s note from societe generale reveals, there’s still plenty  of room for more negative brokerage notes to hit the shares.
boeing tags: boeing, southwest airlines as expected, boeing revised its 787 schedule, now listing the first flight in the second quarter next year and first delivery into the first quarter of 2010.
conner comes from a top position in sales but has a solid background in supply  management and this is his new position position within bca–something  that has been a key stumbling area for the 787.
during our private conversations with them, we came away more comfortable that for 2009 at least, the two companies are not going to see major declines in deliveries, based on current market conditions.
we don’t expect  to be posting at all (unless some huge happens) between christmas and new  year’s.
read more…categories: airbus, boeing tags: airbus, boeing, deferrals, orders if anyone had any doubts about boeing paying penalities for delays as a result of the 58-day iam strike, in which the conventional wisdom was that boeing did not, doubt is removed with this contract language we found (while looking for something else) between southwest airlines and boeing.
(an interesting position to  take since its price was $3bn less than boeing, but northrop fears that  boeing–knowing northrop’s price–can now low-ball the next  round of bidding.)
any additional  skeptical notes could extend the stock’s year-to-date drop of 55%.
categories: airbus, boeing tags: 787, airbus, boeing profiles of airbus financial, boeing capital december 3, 2008  leave a comment with the capital market crunch, airbus and boeing each said it is prepared  to step up and help with customer financing.
profile: boeing capital corp. industry officials and observers fret that the capital market crunch will make it difficult for airlines to finance airplanes through the rest of this year and well into next.
airbus, engine makers and regional  airliner producers can be expected to pick up the rest of the oem, based on  history.
yesterday, societe generale initiated coverage on ba with a “sell” rating following yet another  delay in the company’s much anticipated 787 dreamliner.
midwest is hanging on by its flaps, returning these 16 airplanes to bcc and downsizing by contracting with regional airlines to operate the embraer 170 jets.
the full story may be found here.
bcc’s federal 10q filing with the us securities and exchange commission shows that bcc has $1.9bn in financing commitments for 2009 out of $9.5bn in total on its books (see table).
december 17: from: schaeffers research comes this item: the boeing company dow component the boeing company (ba: sentiment, chart, options) was  slapped with a “sell” rating today by societe generale, as the  french firm made its way through the aerospace-and-defense sector.
original post: speea, the engineer’s union at boeing, will tally votes today on a new contract.
aerospace analysts diverge on these predictions right now.
the efforts to read  between the lines is like reading the kremlin at the height of the cold war.
a grizzled machinist finally asked borman, “why should we follow the advice of someone dumb enough to sit on top of a rocket built by the lowest bidder?”
the current stated position of boeing and airbus is that the next-generation of single aisle aircraft will be available around the 2020 mark.
this morning, deutsche bank cut its price target on the shares to $39 from $48.
categories: boeing tags: 737, boeing
(an interesting position to take since its price was $3bn less than boeing, but northrop fears that boeing–knowing northrop’s price–can now low-ball the next round of bidding.)
december 22: air transport world reports that boeing has set the end of april for the first flight of the 787.
the stories  appeared on cao’s website november 3.
the impact of the global economies on airbus and boeing 787 update due shortly boeing plans an update of the 787 program by mid-december, with  expectations that a new timeline for first flight and first delivery will be  forthcoming.
the tanker competition is back in the news, with this editorial and this news story, both from the mobile press-register, and these items quoting boeing ids president james albaugh and northrop grumman president ron sugar that kick off the latest controversy.
yesterday, societe generale initiated coverage on ba with a “sell” rating following yet another delay in the company’s much anticipated 787 dreamliner.
during our private conversations with them, we came away more  comfortable that for 2009 at least, the two companies are not going to see  major declines in deliveries, based on current market conditions.
original post, december 22: here’s a teaser for a story we’ve written for the next issue of  aviation and the environment magazine; the full magazine may be foundhere; the  article referenced below begins on page 18: is boeing planning a major 737 improvement programme?
categories: boeing tags: 737, boeing odds and ends december 17, 2008 leave a comment
bcc did not provide any details, other than agreement to  restructure the terms on 16 717s leased to midwest airlines.
boeing is also looking at cfm’s leap-x engine, although the engine maker says it is developing the engine for an entirely new platform.
this person reports to shanahan.
but today is a different story.
a grizzled machinist finally asked  borman, “why should we follow the advice of someone dumb enough to sit on  top of a rocket built by the lowest bidder?”
northrop says  the lowest price might not be the best product.
borman, commander of the first apollo mission around the moon, was facing the notoriously militant iam during one of his early meetings at the new chief of eastern.
the consensus is that airbus and boeing will begin seeing serious declines in aircraft deliveries as early as next year.
this has led some to particularly point to the new airbus assembly facility  in china as a risk factor for airbus.
the pressure on bcc is building, however.
there certainly is sound reason for concern, but so far this is overwrought.
with environmentalists and the slumping economy putting pressure on the  industry, boeing is considering a bridge model that would provide a 10 percent  improvement until a replacement is ready, according to the current edition of  aviation and the environment magazine.
the chicago-based company is considering rolling out more changes to the current version of the jet as it has done since 2000, with improvements to performance, comfort and navigation, russell young, a spokesman in seattle, said wednesday.
the other contender, announced in  the management restructuring, according tothe journal, is ray conner.
speea has only struck twice in  40-some years.
update, december 12: reaction is mixed about the delay and the management changes.
there is room for the situation to deteriorate further on wall street,  as 8 of the 17 analysts following ba rate the shares a “buy” or  better, according tozacks.com.
if, by chance, either contract is rejected and a strike is authorized,  don’t expect a walk-out.
we hope that works, but there is still risk of unknown-unknowns that could delay this until the third quarter.
boeing officials are clear that they want bcc to be the lender of last  resort for its customers, and bcc officials are pounding the pavement looking  for financing for its customers so bcc doesn’t have to step up.
we agree (unfortunately, since we have a long position in boeing stock) that there is more downside left in the price.
categories: boeing tags: boeing, speea enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
these concerns have been exacerbated by the announcement from china’s  central government that it wants the airlines to defer deliveries next year.
bcc received “a number of  requests from both domestic and foreign airlines to reduce lease or rental  payments or otherwise restructure obligations,” the company said in its  10q filing.
here’s an excerpt of a bloomberg story picking up on the 737  “re-generation” piece we did for aviation and the environment  magazine (see below).
join 998 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
cowen & co. predicts 2q10; jp morgan and goldman predict delivery will be a year after the first flight.
as its dreamliner drama drags on, analysts have grown increasingly skeptical of ba.zacks reports 9 “holds” and 1 “strong sell,” compared to 8 “buy” or better ratings.
december 22, 2008 4 comments update, january 1: we always get a sense of satisfaction when boeing confirms our news.
our comment: societe generale, or socgen to those of us in  the business, is awfully late to the party.
the boeing press release may be found here.
he has a link to the full report.
read more… categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, eads,  northrop tags: 737, 747-8, 787, a330f, airbus, boeing, china, kc-767, kc-x speea vote today december 1, 2008 leave a comment update, 10:30 pm pst: it’s official: 79% of the engineers and 69% of the technicians voted  for the contract.
final results aren’t expected to be counted until late tonight (seattle time), but we’re geared up to post results as soon as we have them this evening.
analysts generally applaud the moves as an effort by boeing to fix  problems.
in addition, the 2016 certification date would push the arrival of an entirely new aircraft out much further than 2020.
his blog link ishere.
the downbeat initiation today comes on the heels of boeing’s
boeing is quietly studying how to improve the 737 next generation,  according to sources quizzed for a report in the december/ january issue of  aviation and the environment, who all have knowledge on some level of the  boeing studies.
categories: airbus, boeing tags: 787, boeing jon ostrower of flightblogger has a stunning coup: a 48 page critique of boeing’s 787 by airbus.
boeing wants to get the program moving, but insiders tell us that there remain risks and uncertainties that continue to cast doubts on any schedule announced.
speea historically goes back to the bargaining table to renegotiate if a contract is rejected.
update, 8:00 pm pst: speea is still counting the votes.
the market reacted benignly to the announcements thursday, with the stock  trading down less than 2%.
this would necessitate a massive structural change of the 737, with the introduction of a new wing, taller landing gear and a redesigned wingbox.
would it make sense to delay this date if significant performance and  environmental improvements could be made to the current generation relatively  quickly?
below are two stories we did for  commercial aviation online, a subscription-only service, about airbus and  boeing financial arms.
bcc received “a number of requests from both domestic and foreign airlines to reduce lease or rental payments or otherwise restructure obligations,” the company said in its 10q filing.
these represent slips of about six months.
categories:air force tanker, boeing, northrop tags: boeing, societe generale as the world economy and the airline industry seemingly implodes, there is an increasing amount of concern emerging among some aerospace analysts and internet bloggers over what this means for airbus and boeing.
we don’t expect to be posting at all (unless some huge happens) between christmas and new year’s.
conner doesn’t report to  shanahan; he reports directly to carson.
read more…categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, eads, northrop tags: 737, 747-8, 787, a330f, airbus, boeing, china, kc-767, kc-x update, 10:30 pm pst: it’s official: 79% of the engineers and 69% of the technicians voted for the contract.
this  would necessitate a massive structural change of the 737, with the introduction  of a new wing, taller landing gear and a redesigned wingbox.
sugar that kick off the latest controversy.
this raised fears that the technicians might reject the contract, while the engineers are expected to approve it.
the boeing co. said its boeing capital corp. (bcc) finance arm stands ready to provide $1bn in financing next year.
he has a link to the full  report.
jp morgan forecasts first flight in the first quarter while goldman sachs  predicts 2q09 or 3q09.
we hope that works, but there is still risk of  unknown-unknowns that could delay this until the third quarter.
the downbeat initiation today comes on the heels of boeing’s warning last week that the launch of its 787 dreamliner would be delayed by yet another 6 months, due to issues caused by a machinists’ strike and improperly installed fasteners.
relies on the total life cycle analysis that favors its airplane.
there was a record vote of more than  14,000.
accordingly, analysts predict that oems will have to step up next year with $5bn in financing support.
we’re reminded of the story when former astronaut frank borman became  ceo of eastern airlines.
most observers  believe this is aggressive.
the other contender, announced in the management restructuring, according tothe journal, is ray conner.
accordingly, analysts predict that oems will have to  step up next year with $5bn in financing support.
the combined fuel burn improvement of these measures could be as much as ten per cent – potentially making it very attractive to airlines as a “bridge” aircraft… please see the upcoming issue of the magazine for the full report.
speea has only struck twice in 40-some years.
profile: boeing capital corp. industry officials and observers fret that the capital market crunch will  make it difficult for airlines to finance airplanes through the rest of this  year and well into next.
the efforts to read between the lines is like reading the kremlin at the height of the cold war.
as we pointed out some weeks ago, this is highly unusual: china historically has been a stalwart through bad times for airbus and boeing, growing and ordering airplanes when other regions in the world were going through major downturns.
jp morgan forecasts first flight in the first quarter while goldman sachs predicts 2q09 or 3q09.
midwest is hanging  on by its flaps, returning these 16 airplanes to bcc and downsizing by  contracting with regional airlines to operate the embraer 170 jets.
the consensus is that airbus and boeing will begin seeing serious declines  in aircraft deliveries as early as next year.
additionally, a new avionics system seems likely, in which rnp would come as standard.
we participated in a conference last week that included airbus and boeing officials.
first, on the delays: these had been widely expected, both as a result of  the strike by the iam, the discovery of fasteners incorrectly installed and of  reports (including our own) that software integration continues to be an issue.
back to the tanker reuters has this story about the debate between northrop grumman supporting  a “best value” approach to the re-compete for the kc-x contract and  boeing supporting a “low price” selection.
on the management changes: surprisingly, some inside and close to boeing don’t know whether pat  shanahan’s appointment to oversee all new airplane programs is a  promotion or a kick upstairs because of the continuing problems with the 787  program, which he was brought in from boeing’s integrated defense systems  unit to oversee and fix.
one of boeing’s industrial partners believes shanahan has done  a good job and that he is on track to do greater things at boeing.
this  raised fears that the technicians might reject the contract, while the  engineers are expected to approve it.
read more… categories: airbus, boeing tags: airbus, boeing 787 update due shortly december 2, 2008 6 comments in this week’s column: 787 update due shortly other program issues at boeing the decline and fall of the chinese aviation sector
also in today’s note, b/e aerospace (beav) was initiated at “hold,” general dynamics (gd) was started with a “hold” rating, and lockheed martin (lmt) was started at “buy.”
one of boeing’s industrial partners believes shanahan has done a good job and that he is on track to do greater things at boeing.
this is a different distinction than deferrals, and a this is an important  distinction.
it may be  another 30-60 minutes before the returns are official.
the brokerage firm also reiterated a “hold” rating on the equity.
the timetable infers a nine month flight test program.
as  we pointed out some weeks ago, this is highly unusual: china historically has  been a stalwart through bad times for airbus and boeing, growing and ordering  airplanes when other regions in the world were going through major downturns.
aerospace analyst howard rubel of jefferies co. calls the newly announced schedule “realistic” and has a buy on the stock.
we also forecast this on tuesday.
meanwhile, thomson financial  reports that the stock’s average 12-month price target rests at $57.11  per share – a 47% premium to the stock’s monday close at $38.74.
we’re reminded of the story when former astronaut frank borman became ceo of eastern airlines.
boeing officials are clear that they want bcc to be the lender of last resort for its customers, and bcc officials are pounding the pavement looking for financing for its customers so bcc doesn’t have to step up.
robert stallard of macquarie capital (with an outperform) is less kind.
borman found the humor in the question as the entire crowd cracked up.
boeing is quietly studying how to improve the 737 next generation, according to sources quizzed for a report in the december/ january issue of aviation and the environment, who all have knowledge on some level of the boeing studies.
when, then, will be the first delivery?
update, 10:15 am pdt: addison schonland, jon ostrower and scott hamilton have a20 minute podcast discussing the 787 delay and new management changes announced by boeing shortly after the 787 delay was announced.
categories: boeing tags: 787,  boeing papers play catch up on 787 delays december 4, 2008 leave a  comment the wall street journal, the seattle p-i and other papers are only now  playing catch-up to aerospace analysts who last week forecast the first  deliveries of the boeing 787 won’t be until summer of 2010.
bcc’s federal 10q filing with the us securities and exchange  commission shows that bcc has $1.9bn in financing commitments for 2009 out of  $9.5bn in total on its books (see table).
conner comes from a top position in sales but has a solid background in supply management and this is his new position position within bca–something that has been a key stumbling area for the 787.
northrop’s “best value” combines the most-capable concept that won it the contract last year.
the seattle times has this year-end story, looking at airbus and  boeing.
each is reprinted here with permission.
read more… categories: airbus, boeing tags: airbus, boeing,  deferrals, orders “excusable delay” december 12, 2008 3 comments if anyone had any doubts about boeing paying penalities for delays as a  result of the 58-day iam strike, in which the conventional wisdom was that  boeing did not, doubt is removed with this contract language we found (while  looking for something else) between southwest airlines and boeing.
based on information we have, we think the end of the  second quarter is the most likely scenario, but the first flight could also  slip to the third quarter.
northrop’s “best value” combines the most-capable concept  that won it the contract last year.
this has led some to particularly point to the new airbus assembly facility in china as a risk factor for airbus.
speea historically goes back to the bargaining  table to renegotiate if a contract is rejected.
categories: boeing tags: boeing, southwest  airlines boeing revises 787 schedule again december 11, 2008 4 comments as expected, boeing revised its 787 schedule, now listing the first flight  in the second quarter next year and first delivery into the first quarter of  2010.
categories: airbus, boeing tags: 787, airbus, boeing with the capital market crunch, airbus and boeing each said it is prepared to step up and help with customer financing.
boeing has consistently maintained that it can complete flight testing within 6-9 months after first flight, but given the track record of its predictions so far, we’re inclined to side with jp morgan and goldman and go with one year after first flight.
it may be another 30-60 minutes before the returns are official.
borman, commander of the first apollo mission around  the moon, was facing the notoriously militant iam during one of his early  meetings at the new chief of eastern.
the current stated position of boeing and airbus is that the  next-generation of single aisle aircraft will be available around the 2020  mark.
categories: boeing tags: boeing, speea rss feed
this is also based on information we have.
“the customer acknowledges that (i) the obligations of boeing…are premised upon boeing’s manufacturing capability prior to the iam action; and (ii) delay in the performance in any obligation of boeing under this purchase agreement resulting from the iam action is an excusable delay….”categories:
update, 9:00 pm pst: unofficial returns: it appears that both contracts passed.
many brokerage firms consider a “hold” rating a negative recommendation.
among the possibilities being explored is the placement of a scaled-up version of a pratt & whitney geared turbofan engine on the aircraft.
on the management changes: surprisingly, some inside and close to boeing don’t know whether pat shanahan’s appointment to oversee all new airplane programs is a promotion or a kick upstairs because of the continuing problems with the 787 program, which he was brought in from boeing’s integrated defense systems unit to oversee and fix.
join 998 other followers get every new post delivered to your inbox.
schaffers also has this related item: the boeing company (ba: sentiment, chart, options) was broadsided with another bearish brokerage note this morning, marking the second straight session of negative news from the analyst community.
goldman projects a 3q09 first flight instead of boeing’s projected 2q09;  and a 3q10 delivery instead of boeing’s projected 1q10, the major  difference being a one year flight test program instead of a nine-month  schedule put forth by boeing.
this is a different distinction than deferrals, and a this is an important distinction.
conner doesn’t report to shanahan; he reports directly to carson.
analysts generally applaud the moves as an effort by boeing to fix problems.
the brokerage  firm also reiterated a “hold” rating on the equity.
our comment: societe generale, or socgen to those of us in the business, is awfully late to the party.
he writes in a note issued  afterward: given its 100% failure rate in forecasting the 787 timetable so far, we  expect airlines, suppliers and investors to be suitably skeptical on to whether  this latest revised schedule will actually be achieved.
there is room for the situation to deteriorate further on wall street, as 8 of the 17 analysts following ba rate the shares a “buy” or better, according tozacks.com.
a range of internal systems improvements are being  considered, which would make building and maintaining the aircraft easier.
boeing is also  looking at cfm’s leap-x engine, although the engine maker says it is  developing the engine for an entirely new platform.
we agree (unfortunately, since we  have a long position in boeing stock) that there is more downside left in the  price.
based on information we have, we think the end of the second quarter is the most likely scenario, but the first flight could also slip to the third quarter.
additionally, a new avionics system seems likely, in which rnp would  come as standard.
bloomberg news january 1, 2009 boeing co., whose 737 is the world’s most widely flown plane, said it’s studying new “product enhancements” as replacement plans for the aircraft have been delayed toward the end of the next decade.
aerospace analyst howard rubel of jefferies co. calls the newly announced  schedule “realistic” and has a buy on the stock.
shanahan still oversees the program, as well as the  troubled 747-8 development, but a new person, also from ids, has been appointed  to directly manage the 787 program.
december 22: air transport world reports that boeing has set the end of april  for the first flight of the 787.
the boeing co. said its boeing capital corp. (bcc) finance arm stands ready  to provide $1bn in financing next year.
this morning,  deutsche bank cut its price target on the shares to $39 from $48.
among the possibilities being explored is the placement of a scaled-up  version of a pratt & whitney geared turbofan engine on the aircraft.
while the market is off (at 9am pst) less than 1%, boeing is off 4.75%.
it’s telling of boeing’s credibility problems that even some inside boeing question just what the shanahan moves means.
there was a record vote of more than 14,000.
as the year trickles down to a close, we’re going to post some news  items in one post with any commentary we see fit to add.
based on conversations we’ve had with boeing insiders, the unions and others, we believe the first flight is likely in the june-august 2009 period.
also in  today’s note, b/e aerospace (beav) was initiated at “hold,”  general dynamics (gd) was started with a “hold” rating, and  lockheed martin (lmt) was started at “buy.”
these concerns have been exacerbated by the announcement from china’s central government that it wants the airlines to defer deliveries next year.
most observers believe this is aggressive.
we participated in a conference last week that included airbus and boeing  officials.
would it make sense to delay this date if significant performance and environmental improvements could be made to the current generation relatively quickly?
it’s telling of boeing’s credibility problems that even some  inside boeing question just what the shanahan moves means.
the market reacted benignly to the announcements thursday, with the stock trading down less than 2%.
bcc did not provide any details, other than agreement to restructure the terms on 16 717s leased to midwest airlines.
update, january 1: we always get a sense of satisfaction when boeing confirms our news.
with environmentalists and the slumping economy putting pressure on the industry, boeing is considering a bridge model that would provide a 10 percent improvement until a replacement is ready, according to the current edition of aviation and the environment magazine.
first, on the delays: these had been widely expected, both as a result of the strike by the iam, the discovery of fasteners incorrectly installed and of reports (including our own) that software integration continues to be an issue.
original post: speea, the engineer’s union at boeing, will tally votes today on a  new contract.
boeing’s statement is vague about when in the second quarter it now  expects first flight.
“performance” is now the only thing that will count–not  predictions and projections by boeing.
the stories appeared on cao’s website november 3.
while the market is  off (at 9am pst) less than 1%, boeing is off 4.75%.
december 17: from: schaeffers research comes this item: the boeing company dow component the boeing company (ba: sentiment, chart, options) was slapped with a “sell” rating today by societe generale, as the french firm made its way through the aerospace-and-defense sector.
actually, there are two contracts–one for the technicians and one for  the engineers.
“we will share the details of future enhancements when we have  decided to implement them,” young said.
the chicago-based company is considering rolling out more changes to  the current version of the jet as it has done since 2000, with improvements to  performance, comfort and navigation, russell young, a spokesman in seattle,  said wednesday.
as its dreamliner drama drags on, analysts have grown increasingly  skeptical of ba.zacks reports 9 “holds” and 1  “strong sell,” compared to 8 “buy” or better ratings.
read more…categories: airbus, boeing tags: airbus, boeing in this week’s column: 787 update due shortly boeing plans an update of the 787 program by mid-december, with expectations that a new timeline for first flight and first delivery will be forthcoming.
update, 10:15 am pdt: addison schonland, jon ostrower and  scott hamilton have a20 minute podcast discussing the 787 delay and new  management changes announced by boeing shortly after the 787 delay was  announced.
up to now, technicians have been pretty vocal that they don’t like  the terms negotiated by the speea leadership, responding with a vitriol that  surprised the negotiating team, who thought they had a good contract deal.
he writes in a note issued afterward: given its 100% failure rate in forecasting the 787 timetable so far, we expect airlines, suppliers and investors to be suitably skeptical on to whether this latest revised schedule will actually be achieved.
until boeing clearly is positioned to achieve first flight with the 787, doubts remain and the company’s credibility is shot.
actually, there are two contracts–one for the technicians and one for the engineers.
aerospace analysts are nearly unanimous that a full year is more likely.
until boeing clearly is positioned to achieve first flight with the 787,  doubts remain and the company’s credibility is shot.
the wall street journal reporting suggests shanahan is now one of two candidates to succeed boeing commercial airplanes president scott carson, who is on countdown to mandatory retirement in about four years.
“the customer acknowledges that (i) the obligations of  boeing…are premised upon boeing’s manufacturing capability prior  to the iam action; and (ii) delay in the performance in any obligation of  boeing under this purchase agreement resulting from the iam action is an  excusable delay….”
the combined fuel burn improvement of these measures could be as much  as ten per cent – potentially making it very attractive to airlines as a  “bridge” aircraft… please see the upcoming issue of the magazine for the full report.
categories: airbus, boeing tags: 787,  boeing airbus critique of 787 december 3, 2008 6 comments jon ostrower of flightblogger has a stunning coup: a 48 page critique of  boeing’s 787 by airbus.
northrop says the lowest price might not be the best product.
as the year trickles down to a close, we’re going to post some news items in one post with any commentary we see fit to add.
original post, december 22: here’s a teaser for a story we’ve written for the next issue of aviation and the environment magazine; the full magazine may be foundhere; the article referenced below begins on page 18: is boeing planning a major 737 improvement programme?
goldman sachs (sell) believes boeing will run over both new time estimates.
in addition, the 2016  certification date would push the arrival of an entirely new aircraft out much  further than 2020.
the tanker competition is back in the news, with this editorial and this  news story, both from the mobile press-register, and these items  quoting boeing ids president james albaugh and northrop grumman president ron
all 717s are to be returned by the end of this year.
if, by chance, either contract is rejected and a strike is authorized, don’t expect a walk-out.
boeing considers 737 enhancements bloomberg news january 1, 2009 boeing co., whose 737 is the world’s most widely flown plane,  said it’s studying new “product enhancements” as replacement  plans for the aircraft have been delayed toward the end of the next decade.
robert stallard of  macquarie capital (with an outperform) is less kind.
boeing has previously announced first flight will be in the second quarter, which could be any time from april 1 to june 30.
here’s an excerpt of a bloomberg story picking up on the 737 “re-generation” piece we did for aviation and the environment magazine (see below).
estimates are another 60-90 minutes for the tally to be completed.
many brokerage firms consider a “hold” rating a negative  recommendation.
the wall  street journal reporting suggests shanahan is now one of two candidates to  succeed boeing commercial airplanes president scott carson, who is on countdown  to mandatory retirement in about four years.
based on conversations we’ve had with boeing  insiders, the unions and others, we believe the first flight is likely in the  june-august 2009 period.
a range of internal systems improvements are being considered, which would make building and maintaining the aircraft easier.
boeing has consistently maintained that it can complete flight testing within  6-9 months after first flight, but given the track record of its predictions so  far, we’re inclined to side with jp morgan and goldman and go with one  year after first flight.
categories:air force tanker, boeing, northrop tags: boeing, societe generale overwrought concerns december 16, 2008 2 comments as the world economy and the airline industry seemingly implodes, there is  an increasing amount of concern emerging among some aerospace analysts and  internet bloggers over what this means for airbus and boeing.
boeing’s “low price” relies on the total life cycle analysis that favors its airplane.
below are two stories we did for commercial aviation online, a subscription-only service, about airbus and boeing financial arms.
boeing’s statement is vague about when in the second quarter it now expects first flight.
up to now, technicians have been pretty vocal that they don’t like the terms negotiated by the speea leadership, responding with a vitriol that surprised the negotiating team, who thought they had a good contract deal.
warning last week that the launch of its 787 dreamliner would be delayed by yet  another 6 months, due to issues caused by a machinists’ strike and  improperly installed fasteners.
categories: boeing tags: 787, boeing the wall street journal, the seattle p-i and other papers are only now playing catch-up to aerospace analysts who last week forecast the first deliveries of the boeing 787 won’t be until summer of 2010.
aerospace analysts are nearly unanimous that a full  year is more likely.
boeing has  previously announced first flight will be in the second quarter, which could be  any time from april 1 to june 30.
back to the tanker reuters has this story about the debate between northrop grumman supporting a “best value” approach to the re-compete for the kc-x contract and boeing supporting a “low price” selection.
as today’s note from societe generale reveals, there’s still plenty of room for more negative brokerage notes to hit the shares.
airbus, engine makers and regional airliner producers can be expected to pick up the rest of the oem, based on history.
goldman projects a 3q09 first flight instead of boeing’s projected 2q09; and a 3q10 delivery instead of boeing’s projected 1q10, the major difference being a one year flight test program instead of a nine-month schedule put forth by boeing.