first, the 747′s united flies are powered by pratt and whitney engines.
it appears in this photo, these are general electric engines.
edit: bump to me it’s a great representation of,unfortunately-hopefully not,the real thing.
the new airline would be called continental & be based in houston.
it is critical to the success of the new united that the continental service level becomes the norm everywhere the new united flies.
that is united airlines.
it’s the “new” livery that sucks!
oh, and definitely no battleship gray!!
if this is actually it.
cal was indeed the stronger carrier.
their logo and color scheme is far better than continental’s!
it is clearly evident that these are ge engines.
something tells me this merger will be clumsy and poorly unified and branded.
you should check out the night shot i did of an a380 in new ua colors as well.
we have seen the new united livery on a boeing 737, but now we can see it  on the boeing 747.
hit the nail on the head imferret!
no, it doesn’t bother me.
united employees career expectation before the merger =
when united and continental announced their new official livery and released that official shot of artist’s rendition 777 flying away, i was bothered by both the poor perspective of the picture and by the less than quality work of wrapping the name on fuselage.
i’m not a fan of the compromised image, and would have liked to have seen an altogether new scheme, however, the more i stared at this picture the more it grew on me.
take helicopter lessons to  earn your ppl-h licence.
and i am not a fan, the idea of basic livery is nice but it lacks excitement.
personally, i think co’s colors are clean and nice and i also like ua’s current blue as well.
may i humbly suggest this rough suggestion for an appropriate merger name, color scheme and logo.
wait for something spectacular coming ’round the bend in the near future.
too bad for you the fact is united was financially stronger than co at the time of the merger, and co was the one who analysts were saying was not strong enough to survive in the long term.
not saying i could be wrong, but wondering where the photo credit is as well….
that’s a double bagger!!!
by the way, i can tell this is the unfinished picture i shared with some friends at continental.
i apologize, since i didn’t know it when i posted it, but does it matter?
the worst thing about the continental scheme is you can’t see the n-number.
further, there is a oily streak on the tail – hardly something you would find on a newly painted aircraft.
does it matter that the new united livery is co’s 20 year old livery?
glen’s entire goal for the last decade was to dump the store.
i therefore decided i would try my own.
the airline industry, as i knew it, is gone.
my favorite united livery was back when we were known as the “friendly skies.”
the more i keep seeing the new livery in photos the more i seem to like it.
it’s going to be all coach-class, code-shared with skywest, and seat-belts for sale.
those leaving negative comments must have short memories when 20 years ago continentals service left much to be desired.
love the old friendship livery of united.
and tell me: how exactly does a spinning globe logo relate to the name ‘united’?
continental worked with the globe because the globe is made up of continents, hence continental, but what’s the relationship to united?
btw,even if pix is “fake” it represents what the co 20 year old new livery will look like.
please, the further away from the bad taste united has left in many frequent fliers mouths, the better we are.
a rumor like that might bumb airbus’s stock up.
it is a symbol that we are linked or united globally.
things with wings advertisement helicopter training school in gloucestershire.
let’s just keep the “u” logo..it’s more familiar and most united people would rather have it than anything from co.
in my final version i had corrected mistakes like the tail paint bleeding over the leading edge of the vertical stabilizer.
down with jeff $mi$ek.
ya were pro co before the merge you probably like the 20 year old “new” ua livery pictured here.
thumbs up from me…even if this a photoshop job.
terrible livery and logo.
but hey, its life all who dont like it can just leave, life is a choice here, i couldnt give a crap as to how the airplanes will look and what logo should stay or go,,all i want is my paycheck on payday.
home and design is an exceptional reference for owners of luxury home real estate seeking interior design and remodeling ideas for landscaping as well as as long as everyone gets their $39 fare, who cares what the tail looks like…right?
all logos, airlines, and aviators found at lost aviators.
it sure looks like a toy that has been painted…the reflection on the side doesn’t look right.
update: this photo is in fact a photoshop.
it was easy to modify pics of co jets, but harder to paint planes that co has never flown, like the 747-400.
it’s pretty obvious that the tulip is far more popular and reknowned then the weak continental globe…i believe united is making a huge mistake…hopefully, this is just a temporary scheme and smisnek gets his ego out of his ‘globe’ and creates a livery where all sides will be satisfied.
it is the most generic, dull and thoughtless compromise imaginable and just shows that this deal was done simply because of the usual misguided idea the bigger is better, which it rarely is.
the new united livery is co 20 year old livery?
« airline livery of the week: air do does it wrong touring haneda airport’s new international terminal » photoshop:
it is a modification of an air canada boeing 747-400 (credit unknown).
you can check out quite a few photos of the old and new livery of this airbus a319 on [...]
a ceo named gordon bethune came along and gave the airline to the employees who took it from “worst to first” where it remains today.
[...] i actually think it looks best on this smaller airbus a319 than it has on the boeing 777 or in a boeing 747 mock up.
it feels to ’90′s…just look at the difference between that picture and this onehttp://twitpic.com/2ztiap
keep the ual colors.
the new united airlines livery on a boeing 747.
so, i guess it all makes since.
geez u g l y that is just sad
gee,all of the new united ac will be retro livery!!!!
we have seen the new united livery on a boeing 737, but now we can see it on the boeing 747.
just look at the miss match mess of (liveries) ua aircraft sitting on the ramp today.
ual survives on legacy status, not performance.
the co livery looks like something from the 1980′s.
thanks to everyone who liked the quality (if not the livery itself).
like it or not, this is a new united and it is coming out swinging.
but it still shows very closely what the new united livery will look like on the boeing 747.tweet yee haw!
remember, ual took over co…even though that smizek guy may be trying to run the show… you really believe that….. wow.. sadly delusional.
i have flown on both airlines both domestic and international and i can truly say, the united flights were some of the most miserable experiences a very frequent flier has ever been forced to endure.
and in for a rude dose of reality.
« airline livery of the week: air do does it wrong
it’s always down low and not visible from the front.
surprised to hear so many negative comments.
they should stick with the full united livery and name or the continental livery and name.
uuuuuuuuuuurrrrggggh!
the “new” ua livery is just a spin on that gawd-awful tulip.
ho hum…uninspired yet expedient decision to plow the merged carrier along.
now a truly winning team has got a giant sh*t sandwich that everyone’s got to take a bite of….
it was posted on the facebook page, the united / continental employees solidarity & support team.
if any of you are not onboard with that and the changes that are coming, now would be a good time to look for another place to work.
cheaper to paint united on the side than grind down that shit-grey-faded-oil-streaked mess of a fleet they maintained.
both are nice looking.
fugly!lol c’mon guys, this livery looks old and tired.
the different engines.
name: unitinental logo: http://tinyurl.com/3x6k2k6 colorscheme: http://tinyurl.com/35gd7tg
the best of both companies will live on… that photo breaks my hart i cant believe how human can behave like this, ok, so 2 airlines are coming together,we dont like it
as a designer i have always felt the globe should have been reversed on the tail – with the no pole flying forward with the direction of flight.
and, yes, i could have modified a united 747, but i really liked this air to air photo and i didn’t know about (and frankly still don’t care about)
i also have a 787 pic modified as well on that facebook page.
better fleet, better technology, better looking fas (that didn’t pose for the tail of alaska…or frontier), and they did it without liquidating pensions and laying off nearly 18% of their pilots.
thanks m bjork, nice impression.
take helicopter lessons to earn your ppl-h licence.
i think it looks good, but i do think they could have come up with something a bit more original than just adding united to the continental livery.
you get better service and smiles from the post-office.
united’s real logo looks better than this crap.
the globe is continental’s pure a simple, how can anybody think otherwise..
what is united thinking?
not in chicago…now pres.
it’s a friggin photoshop.
change out the tulip with the globe.
i apologize for posting it saying it was a real photo, i was fooled as well.
i apologize for  posting it saying it was a real photo, i was fooled as well.
sorry, its photoshop ua planes have 10 windows in zone 2 where this one has 11, also on ua planes the windows start right after door 2 and this one they dont.
the new united are so ugly [...] in october i got a hold of what i thought was a photo of the first boeing 747-400 in new united livery, but it turned out to just be a [...]
all ceo’s have ego, but i don’t think this has anything to do with his.
interesting to hear experts dissect my modification talking about its validity or lack thereof.
logos shouldn’t be backwards to the flow/direction of the airplane.
the new united marketing people know that the current livery is connected to and reflects that winning attitude and service.
the livery says it all.
this scheme is make-do and will not last too long, fortunately.
i especially like this photo since we  are not use to seeing these old continental colors on a boeing 747.
a supremely confident and aggresively competitive airline as born out by it’s many recent route announcements, including immediately countering aa’s lax – pvg (shanghai) expansion.
but the globe is oriented backwards to the airflow.
i disagree, the glode symbolizes that we are linked or united globally.
the continental livery was long in the tooth way before the merger.
well i sure am glad to see i am not the only airplane nerd that checks this daily.
this ‘modification’ is mine.
co had not turned down 1st merge down when houston based bush was pres.
i especially like this photo since we are not use to seeing these old continental colors on a boeing 747.
needs to be right next to the flag.
but, since we’re not the decision makers – let the public respond!
and is there any confirmation that this is real, it looks suspicious.
the united airlines boeing 747-400 have pw engines.
they are not about to let aa dilute their shanghai business traffic unchallenged, which until now was routed thru sfo.
name (required) email (will not be published) (required)
but it still shows  very closely what the new united livery will look like on the boeing 747.
i never intended to fool anyone.
are you liking this new combined livery more?
looks more like a flash from a camera.
this is merely interim branding to satisfy the “merger of equals” philosophy.
the airline continues to win “first” awards all over the world.
at least jeff wants the appearance of making it work before he checks out a billionaire.
the tulip is iconic and for years represented the great airline of united.
i do not believe this photo.
united made have initiated the merger but the new company ended up with mostly continental management and policies.
train for a career running ahelicopter charter company.
olllllld planes, surly attendants, canceled flights.
continetal always planned to just wait until ual went belly up (about 18 more months at the rate they were going) and then just buy the pieces that made sense.
[...] on november 23rd, 2010 at 5:30 am there are a lot of you out there that aren’t too keen on united’s new combined livery with continental.
boeing 747-400 in new united airlines livery by david  parker brown, on october 22nd, 2010 at 12:00 pm the new united airlines livery on a boeing 747.
change your mind…please!
changing it sends a very powerful and unmistakable message that this united is ‘new’.
what type of engine based on casing… [...] the photo of the boeing 747-400 in the new united livery i posted last week is a fake.
it’s one thing to have thoughts, likes, dislikes about the paint scheme it’s quite another to disparage the continental people and the service (our only reason to be in business).
zero,null,nada,zilch.
uhm are you sure that’s a real photo?
i only pray continental can bring them up to there standards.
it means unite the continents of the globe.
they’ve thrown out two babies and kept the loads of bathwater.
something isn’t correct about that photo.
website you can use these html tags              notify me of follow-up comments via e-mail aircraft mechanic training seo consultant london affiliate marketing blog copyright © 2012 airline reporter - all rights reserved powered by wordpress & atahualpa
i’d like to see the current ua livery,blue/white, with co globe on the tail.
much more positive image than that tired old tulip!
great job on the photoshopping but the aircraft used for this photo has ge engines, united uses only p&w’s.
as for whoever counted zones and windows?
can one imagine the co globe logo on top of the chicago united center?
united should be happy the big banks and the obama adminstration crammed this merger down cal’s throat.
now it’s just rediculous.
not that [...] good photoshop.
i just wish i knew more things like, how many windows in zone 1.
the more i see this livery the more i  get used to it and the more i like it.
a back to the future thing???
(again, not my intention)
it has been picked by the employees and will be honored and remembered on a new united retro jet.
it relates because smisek has an ego and he wants something from continental in the new united, and even though he knows it is crap, he needs it.
i cannot believe this is what they came up with.
and for the record, if the reflections are wrong, then they are wrong on the original photo, because i transfered them straight across with the exception of a little on the tail which didn’t lend well the globe design.
i think united current color scheme is a illion times better.
i think this new livery is simple, clean and classy.
helicopter training school in gloucestershire.
p.s i would have rather seen the co livery kept toatlly the sunlight reflections doesnt seem to be natural light.
the more i see this livery the more i get used to it and the more i like it.
if they had of kept ua’s current livery it would have signaled to everyone, consumer and employee alike, that this was business as usual…just another takeover like any other.
the scheme united has right now is beautiful, modern, and way better than this crap which was never good to begin with.
does an airline ceo get drug tested??
uniformity and mediocrity are the way of the future in airline travel.
but that is now ancient history.
this livery looks absolutely terrible.
i always appreciate your insight.
how can two companies not afford a graphic artist who can deliver something spectacular and agreeable?