posted on march 29, 2010 13:19rossano lamagna (kalispell montana): i had been very worried about boeing.
offensive or off-topic comments will not be posted.
this appears to be a step in the right direction, but the results are yet to be determined.
the f35 will be made with critical parts made by partners and it will become the operational backbone of the us airforces...
i am not overly concerned about the government subsidization of airbus as long as it is a safe aircraft for the public to fly in
government handouts for airbus with minimal or no payback provisions are hardly the same as boeing getting a tax break or winning a competitive military contract.
posted on 23 march 2010 | permalink after this "wto" ruling, i and many others here @ boeing and outside of boeing would like to know "when" is the u.s. government going to realize that it is not about a level playing field when it comes to our national security.
germany and france are providing development aid to airbus now for the a350.
how would this help boeing aside from perhaps some negative publicity for airbus?
i also understand that boeing management has to walk a very fine line to help sustain and grow our business both nationally and internationally.
do it on your own - completely and you are the boss 2.
well, today you may have seen or heard reports about the wto’s final  ruling in the u.s. government’s case against european government  subsidies to airbus.
madison (seattle, wa): i'm glad to see the wto finally come out with a ruling that targets these direct government subsidies.
kochevar (huntington beach, ca): randy -- presuming that indications about the favorable (to boeing) wto rulings are true, what is their impact?
if subsidies are restricted in this competition, then the us government effectively gets less competition.
they use "protectionism" on every product they build.
is anyone restricting that?
not to take anything away from airbus' technical abilities, there's no doubt their current success in the marketplace is directly attributable to the continuous flow of subsidies they have received over the years.
posted on february 28, 2011 07:07 name/location: name: email address: location: comments: we welcome your comments.
the main point i see is what will we, (boeing) do about the a350.
" - william e. boeing, founder, the boeing company posted on march 24, 2010 09:33tom (germany): william, there are three ways to handle things like that: 1.
back to commercial aircrafts - the 787: the ultimate load test(wing 150% test load) is in prepartion since february 8.
hirsch (ft.worth, texas): it doesn’t appear to me that the wto ruling will have any affect on the business at hand.
different to the f22 or f35 projects the tanker project welcomed an us/europe partner team.
these monies go towards future research and development which sustains our ability to compete globally and helps keep and create jobs for our children.
boeing did it the right way, fair and square as a private company, and has every right to feel good about the success achieved.
posted on 23 march 2010 | permalink
how would past subsidies for eads effect competitive bids on military aircraft such as the a330 based tanker offering?
does the dept. of defense consider eupopean government subsidies in the bidding process?
will we give up this market?
but we won't be holding our breath.
speea for one was internally looking at this for years and ways that were open in the past under the byrd ammendment, to file a counter vailing duties (cvd) case against airbus for example.
to answer some questions here.
we’ve posted boeing’s comments on the wto’s landmark decision on airbus subsidies.
there is nothing wrong, that the us decided to build the f22 more or less on its's own.
posted on march 24, 2010 09:19barun majumdar (seattle, wa, usa): wto ruling is very timely.
we now have 7a7 based configuration, air force can have their pick.
what i don't know is, will the wto ruling be enforceable, and what happens if eads and the european governments choose to ignore the ruling and continue with subsidies?
well, today you may have seen or heard reports about the wto’s final ruling in the u.s. government’s case against european government subsidies to airbus.
first class organizations compete on the sound decisions by the leadership and dedication of their employees.
do it with partners, while your try to be the boss 3.
i don't understand the complaints from eads about us protectionism when they say the tanker rfp favors boeing's smaller entry.
now with a wto ruling the us government can take action in a number of ways against airbus/eads and governments involved.
airbus doesn't make as good of a plane as what boeing makes, but they sure are an agressive competitor.
the ruling is confidential at this point, but it will most likely be made public in the next couple of months.
posted on march 24, 2010 09:43gene
on the other hand, airbus' satisfaction is diluted at best, knowing well their illegal governmental support was crucial to their success.
i know that airbus is a very vicious strong competator and would like to put boeing out of business.
posted on march 25, 2010 16:38norman (long beach, california, united states): it is a hot potato of an issue airbus is partially subsidized by european governments
boeing, dem., or rep. knew enough about eads before the company was invited to offer a proposal!!!
i know that the a380 has really bit the heals of the iconic 747.
we will not treat any comments you submit as confidential information.
please do not submit comments that contain any confidential information belonging to anyone else.
posted on march 24, 2010 13:31joel w. funfar (seattle, wa.): this ruling is long overdue.
i have thought that the 747 would be gone.
posted on march 24, 2010 06:32anonymous (seattle, washington usa): if eads submits a bid on the usaf tanker contract how can it be considered a level playing field?
the right side won this one.
what is unfair is that airbus can sell planes cheaper than boeing and airline buy them.
however, the news reports we’re seeing quote officials who say that  the u.s. has prevailed on all of the major issues in the final decision,  reaffirming the wto’s interim decision from last year.
i agree with mr. carter's comments about protecting america's core industries, especially when it comes to our defense.
hill (saint louis, mo): i'm certainly no authority in this matter, but it seems as though the us government, in its determination to get the cheapest product possible, would welcome other-government subsidies on an airbus tanker for the us.
(why is the tanker project so often postponed or delayed?
that way, they (we) effectively get other-government buy-in for our next us tanker.
we’ve talked a little here in the past - but not a whole lot - aboutsubsidies and the world trade organization case.
but instead, it is about taking care of our countries core industries.
so let us plan to win, not beg for hand-outs.
it seems whatever the wto ruling says, nothing will change.
this page contains a single entry in randy's journal, a blog of thoughts and observations hosted byrandy tinseth, vice president, marketing for boeing commercial airplanes in seattle.
beside, don't keep our military blindfolded when solicit rfp for the tankers.
posted on march 24, 2010 08:53joe paden mesa az: it seems like common sense might be making a comeback.
airbus claims 530 orders already for it.
it should only be our field.
unfortunately, it doesn't change anything in regards to all of the existing airplane programs already developed and in production.
but i think airbus should make an attempt perhaps with an a320 successor to begin a privately funded development of an aircraft, i like to see what will become of it and how it would be financially developed.
what it can do is put what's left of the development of the a350 and any other new programs, on a market based playing field.
more posts site terms | privacy copyright © 1995 - 2012 boeing.
we can only hope airbus and their supporting governments will take notice and take a higher ethical road in the future.
"we are embarked as pioneers upon a new science and industry in which our problems are so new and unusual that it behooves no one to dismiss any novel idea with the statement that 'it can't be done!'
they accomplish nothing but assist in appearance of improprietory and protectionism.
einifar (everett, washington, 98028): we all should be mindful of adverse effects of nationalist idealogies that are accentuated by local politicians and boeing advocates.
that route is no longer available since congress change the rules on who could file.
the ruling is confidential at this point, but it will most likely be made  public in the next couple of months.
posted on march 24, 2010 09:52john
my understanding this is the same size and range as the 777.
i hope the company could admit that the company and the the unions raised this issue to elected leaders and got the us government to file the wto case.
posted on march 24, 2010 10:58ron d. smith (customer engineering) (everett, wa): after many years of accusations and mistrust, it's great to finally get a clear and unbiased ruling from the wto.
the ruling according to business week fell short of saying development loans to airbus constitute a pattern of aid detrimental to boeing and the us worker.
maybe they are finally realizing what it is like to be on the receiving end of their own policy.
i hear some talk about whether "past" subsidies should be a consideration in the current tanker competition, but what about the potential for subsidies on the very tanker being competed?
posted on march 26, 2010 07:35raymond s. lam (seattle, washington, u.s.a.): there is nothing as level playing field as long as it is for our war fighters.
do it with partners, always trying to find a common way.
posted on march 23, 2010 22:43ross
i will note that the article does not mention the unions involvement in this issue.
our shipyards, airplane makers, mom & pop machine shops, textile mill, steel mills are needed to achieve a functioning manufacturing base in this country.
however all comments are moderated and may not post immediately.
we need to take care of our own first...eads does this and makes us out to be the bad guy.
your name and personal information will not be used for any other purpose, and we will not publish your e-mail address.
i want to see more boeings being sold, especially the 747-8i's 737's to continue and for triple seven's to continue without the threat of the a350 to bite the heals of the 777.
posted on march 23, 2010 20:43andy (idaho) (idaho): did the a330 benefit from subsidies of this nature?
this test should/could be perfomed on march 28 2010!
i think that it is time for a change in the way our politicians do business in this country.
in this era of global economy spearheaded by fierce competition, our essential key to success is innovation.
it was an us decision to invite eads...
by submitting a comment to randy's journal, you agree to our site terms and privacy policy, and to having your name displayed with your comment.
i also remember airbus saying that the 787 was not a viable model back in 2003 when the a380 was the answer, now they are borrowing like crazy to build its competitor with the a350.
i hope that the wto can weaken airbus and that airbus can play by the rules.
we’ve posted boeing’s comments on the wto’s landmark  decision on airbus subsidies.
but so is the f-22 and the f-35 by the us government but so is every combat and most other military aircraft by the government of the countries they come from.
posted on march 26, 2010 06:49gary
posted on march 24, 2010 10:22vahid
posted on march 25, 2010 16:57wyman henckel (seattle, wa ): consider also the effect the subsidies had in the demise of commercial airplane manufacturers lockeed and mcdonnell douglas.
however, the news reports we’re seeing quote officials who say that the u.s. has prevailed on all of the major issues in the final decision, reaffirming the wto’s interim decision from last year.
all or part of your comment may be posted or cited in the blog.
wto ruling we’ve talked a little here in the past - but not a whole lot  - aboutsubsidies and the world trade organization case.
in addition to protecting these industries we need the profits to stay in the us.