when the dust settles on the smaller deals, aerospace suppliers often  find themselves owned by private-equity firms, gumbert notes.
"so you have people in place, who are under the gun with the new owners, who've already cut everything to the bone, and now we're going to have the ramp-up take place with the boeings and the airbuses and hopefully business aviation," gumbert says.
" in its most recent market forecast, boeing predicted that surging demand in the asia pacific region will propel a $4 trillion market for new commercial aircraft over the next 20 years.
the  wellington, fla.-based manufacturer of aircraft-cabin products is coming off a  record 2011, in which the company landed an $800 million order from boeing co.
"the suppliers are very concerned about their ability to meet the  ramp-ups that airbus and boeing are talking about, as well as continuing to  service bombardier, embraer and the new entrants that are coming along,"  says hamilton, who is managing director of leeham co. llc, an issaquah,  wash.-based commercial-aviation consulting and research firm.
if the long-term demand comes in at, say, 30,000 airplanes, that means airbus and boeing will need to crank out 1,500 commercial airplanes per year -- after producing 1,000 planes for the first time ever in 2011.
by josh cable march 14, 2012 cessna to begin building business jets in china iberia launches low-cost airline amid protests german top executives get 8.7% pay rise in 2011 ford laying the foundation for its $1 billion factory in india airbus, boeing and embraer launch joint biofuels project gm might be shuttering two opel factories in europe
the industry's operating model is moving into uncharted territory.
despite soaring to all-time highs in sales, earnings, cash flow and bookings in 2011, the sky could be the limit for b/e aerospace.
home : operations : as boeing and airbus ramp up, it's crunch time for aerospace suppliers operations content is sponsored by iw's best plants conference plant tours filling fast!
flexibility, though, is not a luxury that some smaller suppliers enjoy  -- especially in the wake of the great recession.
they're trying to do more with less, and they seem to think, 'that's ok, let's  just take an organization that has 250 people and double our output by adding  25 people.'
the new owners usually push the companies to grow their business and cut costs -- without investing in manufacturing capacity.
by adrienne selko and tonya vinas security concerns don't yet appear to be putting a major dent in mexico's appeal to manufacturers.
final assembly of the a330 and a340 takes place at a hangar at  toulouse/blagnac airport (pictured here) in southwestern france.
"this allows us to flex our capability to accommodate those peak  demands in a very efficient manner by leveraging those resources from across  the entire rockwell collins enterprise, not just those from within a single  business area," king says.
at the same time, gumbert has watched the aerospace supply chain shrink through consolidation and acquisitions.
"and they've been taking up the production  steadily in recent years.
in february, b/e aerospace chairman and ceo amin khoury declared that  the boeing order could be "our most important award ever."
photo courtesy of airbus sas indeed, these are boom  times for some aerospace suppliers.
citing strong demand, airbus in february 2011 announced plans to ramp  up production of its a330 wide-body to 10 airplanes per month by second-quarter  2013.
they're trying to do more with less, and they seem to think, 'that's ok, let's just take an organization that has 250 people and double our output by adding 25 people.'
industryweek : as boeing and airbus ramp up, it's crunch time for aerospace suppliers - advertise | - newsletters | - apps |
when aviation-industry consultant scott hamilton attended the pacific northwest aerospace alliance's annual conference in early february, the production crunch was a hot topic.
as production ramps up on the commercial-aircraft side, continuing weakness in rockwell collins's government business could play to the company's advantage.
the wellington, fla.-based manufacturer of aircraft-cabin products is coming off a record 2011, in which the company landed an $800 million order from boeing co. to supply its modular lavatory system for the next-generation 737 and the 737 max.
that's why he formed the tomcat group, which specializes in turnaround consulting services for distressed aerospace and aviation suppliers.
by josh cable fueled by surging demand in asia, commercial-aircraft production is hitting record levels.
" rockwell collins keeps the lines of communication open with its supply  chain through a number of mechanisms, including an annual supplier conference  and an advisory council comprised of representatives from key suppliers.
khoury pointed out that the $800 million order not only positions b/e aerospace as a tier 1 supplier to boeing but also opens the door for "substantial" opportunities to retrofit existing jets with the modular lavatories.
the numbers certainly point to a gargantuan task ahead for the oems  and suppliers, asserts scott thompson, u.s. aerospace and defense leader for  pwc.
as production ramps up on the commercial-aircraft side, continuing  weakness in rockwell collins's government business could play to the company's  advantage.
"so you have people in place, who are under the gun with the new  owners, who've already cut everything to the bone, and now we're going to have  the ramp-up take place with the boeings and the airbuses and hopefully business  aviation," gumbert says.
issue subscribe now buy a link now why is mexico growing
"we will expect more from our suppliers in their performance, and we're also going to have to hold ourselves -- as a customer to our supply base -- more accountable for how we interact with them as well.
comment in the iw forums.
however, as boeing and airbus push toward aggressive production-rate  ramp-ups on a number of major programs, there are murmurs that some  manufacturers in an already stretched supply chain might struggle to keep pace.
the new owners  usually push the companies to grow their business and cut costs -- without  investing in manufacturing capacity.
when aviation-industry consultant scott hamilton attended the pacific  northwest aerospace alliance's annual conference in early february, the  production crunch was a hot topic.
making the education offer by stephen gold new research shows how manufacturers are responding to the skills gap.
a  recent pwc report assessing the operational readiness of the aerospace supply  chain notes that the aircraft oems have "pushed much of the design and  manufacturing work to suppliers, often in the form of risk-sharing  partnerships.
e-mail webmaster@industryweek.com
"granted, that  [risk sharing] was just at the tier 1 level.
"the suppliers are very concerned about their ability to meet the ramp-ups that airbus and boeing are talking about, as well as continuing to service bombardier, embraer and the new entrants that are coming along," says hamilton, who is managing director of leeham co. llc, an issaquah, wash.-based commercial-aviation consulting and research firm.
the most recent data from pwc  show that the number of mergers and acquisitions in the aerospace and defense  industry has surged steadily from 173 in 2002 to a record 341 in 2011.
"simple math is they need to raise production 50% to 60% over the long term to meet the demand," thompson says.
they're also recognizing the "growing interdependence"  between themselves and their suppliers, says bruce king, senior vice president,  operations, for rockwell collins inc. given the dizzying complexity of the components and assemblies  involved in aircraft production, king believes it's time to jettison "that  old model of buyer and supplier.
can the supply chain keep pace?
photo courtesy of airbus sas indeed, these are boom times for some aerospace suppliers.
with boeing and airbus sas projecting a worldwide demand for some 30,000 new commercial jets over the next two decades, suppliers such as b/e aerospace could be poised for a good run.
unfortunately, there could be more ugly failure points lurking around  the corner.
"it really gives us an opportunity to hear from our suppliers about what we can do to be more effective in how we engage with them," king says.
"now [the suppliers are] going to try to  produce, and they're not going to be able to -- which is going to put more  angst on the individuals running these organizations.
"granted, that [risk sharing] was just at the tier 1 level.
while 2011 marked the first year that boeing and airbus combined to  deliver more than 1,000 commercial airplanes (477 for boeing and 534 for  airbus), the aerospace titans also ended 2011 with a record combined backlog of  more than 8,000 jets (3,771 for boeing and 4,437 for airbus).
"i think they'll probably get most of the way there.
the company's electronics and communications systems have a major  presence on the 787 dreamliner -- which features more rockwell collins content  than any other commercial jet in the company's history -- as well as the boeing  747-8 and the airbus a350.
while some suppliers are  licking their chops over the opportunities in commercial-aircraft  manufacturing, others are still licking their wounds.
king notes that the company employs an "integrated business model," in which its government and commercial divisions share manufacturing, quality-control, purchasing and r&d resources and facilities.
when the dust settles on the smaller deals, aerospace suppliers often find themselves owned by private-equity firms, gumbert notes.
it's going to be a  painful event.
and in recent months, there's been a steady stream of new commitments, including an emirates airlines order in november for rockwell collins's threat-detection and navigation-sensor technology on 32 new airbus a380s and 30 new boeing 777s.
it's going to be a painful event.
however, as boeing and airbus push toward aggressive production-rate ramp-ups on a number of major programs, there are murmurs that some manufacturers in an already stretched supply chain might struggle to keep pace.
"it could be the smallest component that could really come back  and get you," gates says.
by josh cable cessna to begin building business jets in china iberia launches low-cost airline amid protests german top executives get 8.7% pay rise in 2011 ford laying the foundation for its $1 billion factory in india airbus, boeing and embraer launch joint biofuels project gm might be shuttering two opel factories in europe more news  » b/e aerospace inc. heads into 2012 flush with optimism.
the numbers certainly point to a gargantuan task ahead for the oems and suppliers, asserts scott thompson, u.s. aerospace and defense leader for pwc.
flexibility, though, is not a luxury that some smaller suppliers enjoy -- especially in the wake of the great recession.
and in recent months, there's been a steady stream  of new commitments, including an emirates airlines order in november for  rockwell collins's threat-detection and navigation-sensor technology on 32 new  airbus a380s and 30 new boeing 777s.
they're also recognizing the "growing interdependence" between themselves and their suppliers, says bruce king, senior vice president, operations, for rockwell collins inc. given the dizzying complexity of the components and assemblies involved in aircraft production, king believes it's time to jettison "that old model of buyer and supplier.
the company's robust commercial-aircraft business helped rockwell  collins post a 15% increase in fiscal 2011 earnings per share and boost overall  revenue from $4.6 billion in fiscal 2010 to $4.8 billion in 2011 -- despite a  decline in its government business.
but we're seeing more  responsibility rolling down the supply chain, and more assumption that they'll  step up and assume a broader role," gates adds.
financial impact of lean mainenance take a deep dive into the real roi of a lean maintenance program.
hear case studies about how the shift from reactive to proactive maintenance can increase manufacturing and financial results.
that isn't going to happen.
" see also: "aerospace supplier leans on lean manufacturing to seize growth  opportunities" "how small aerospace suppliers can seize big opportunities in  commercial-aircraft manufacturing" show paged article
"i had a good discussion with a large oem this morning, and they said, 'yeah, we're already starting to see it,'"
boeing foresees a global need for 33,500 new commercial jets over the next two decades, while airbus forecasts a need for 27,800 new jets over the same time period.
when pwc recently analyzed the readiness of suppliers to deliver the ramp-ups projected for the boeing 737 and 777, the airbus a320 and a380, and other major programs, the firm concluded that 21% of suppliers face a high risk of falling behind on the demand.
when pwc recently analyzed the readiness of suppliers to deliver  the ramp-ups projected for the boeing 737 and 777, the airbus a320 and a380,  and other major programs, the firm concluded that 21% of suppliers face a high  risk of falling behind on the demand.
if the long-term demand comes in at, say, 30,000 airplanes, that means  airbus and boeing will need to crank out 1,500 commercial airplanes per year --  after producing 1,000 planes for the first time ever in 2011.
- print - email - discuss - bookmark - twitter - newsvine - rss as boeing and airbus ramp up, it's crunch time for aerospace suppliers fueled by surging demand in asia, commercial-aircraft production is hitting record levels.
" the much-publicized shortage of fasteners for the 787 dreamliner -- one of a number of supply chain glitches that pushed the program three years behind schedule -- illustrates how, in this new dynamic, one supplier's risk is everyone's risk, asserts doug gates, a partner in kpmg's global aerospace & defense practice.
but there are going to be some pitfalls.
" more and more, thompson is seeing companies "all the way up and  down the supply chain" assessing the operational and financial readiness  of their suppliers.
citing strong demand, airbus in february 2011 announced plans to ramp up production of its a330 wide-body to 10 airplanes per month by second-quarter 2013.
that's why he formed the tomcat group, which specializes in turnaround  consulting services for distressed aerospace and aviation suppliers.
"this allows us to flex our capability to accommodate those peak demands in a very efficient manner by leveraging those resources from across the entire rockwell collins enterprise, not just those from within a single business area," king says.
they haven't maintained their investment.
"the concern is coming from up and down the line, because the  supply chain is only as good as its weakest link," hamilton says.
" gumbert, a former fighter pilot who named his consulting group after the f-14 tomcat that he flew in the navy, says he saw this production crunch coming.
" richard aboulafia, however, is a bit more sanguine about the prospects  of the industry meeting its production targets.
"simple math is they need to raise production 50% to 60% over the  long term to meet the demand," thompson says.
"the concern is coming from up and down the line, because the supply chain is only as good as its weakest link," hamilton says.
"for this industry, that's very, very challenging.
and as part of that cutting back, they let go of experienced, key  talent because it cost too much, and they tried to backfill that with  lower-caliber individuals."
new webinars the financial impact of lean maintenance
while some suppliers are licking their chops over the opportunities in commercial-aircraft manufacturing, others are still licking their wounds.
boeing foresees a global need for  33,500 new commercial jets over the next two decades, while airbus forecasts a  need for 27,800 new jets over the same time period.
the larger suppliers, hamilton adds, aren't the only ones biting their  nails.
- rss - subscribe current issue past issues - forums | - videos | - webinars | - white papers | - events - home - leadership & strategy - workforce/labor - manufacturing profiles - networking - best practices - benchmarking - executive profiles - best manufacturers - expansion management - operations - value/supply chain - lean/six sigma - product development - purchasing - best practices - energy - materials - training - research / development - sponsored by : - economics & public policy - u.s. economy - global economy - trade - finance - regulations - courts - environment - labor - politics - education - sponsored by : - technology & innovation - automation - production equipment - manufacturing software - info technology - emerging technologies - nanotechnology - industrial bio-tech - materials handling equipment - sponsored by : - research & rankings - iw 1000 - iw us 500 - iw 50 best manufacturing companies - iw best plants - manufacturing hall of fame - salary survey - research - benchmarking - associations - sponsored by :
"a lot of companies cut  way back.
" see also: - "aerospace supplier leans on lean manufacturing to seize growth opportunities" - "how small aerospace suppliers can seize big opportunities in commercial-aircraft manufacturing" show paged article recent items in operations - print - email - discuss - bookmark - twitter - newsvine - rss manufacturing ceos say innovation is their no. 1 challenge borden dairy revisits 'elsie the cow' in brand-building effort executives fear leadership shortage manufacturing leadership shortage signals need for recruiting changes the restructuring challenge: how manufacturers can break 'tribal' barriers to foster innovation march 2012
"we will expect more  from our suppliers in their performance, and we're also going to have to hold  ourselves -- as a customer to our supply base -- more accountable for how we  interact with them as well.
in the case of the dreamliner, transferring more risk to boeing's  far-flung global supply chain added "a lot of complexity" and "a  lot of failure points" to the program, gates says.
" more and more, thompson is seeing companies "all the way up and down the supply chain" assessing the operational and financial readiness of their suppliers.
"they're really going to be flexing their industrial muscles over the next year or two," says aboulafia, who is vice president, analysis, for the teal group.
"the supply chain really took a hit back in late 2008, early 2009," says chuck gumbert, founder of the tomcat group, a wichita, kan.-based aerospace and aviation consulting firm.
but also they need to  independently assess what their realistic capabilities are to increase  throughput and, if necessary, to have the capital expenditures to keep up.
with boeing and airbus sas projecting a  worldwide demand for some 30,000 new commercial jets over the next two decades,  suppliers such as b/e aerospace could be poised for a good run.
unfortunately, there could be more ugly failure points lurking around the corner.
gumbert said in february.
leadership & strategy | operations | economics & public policy industryweek social media facebook twitter linkedin technology & innovation | rankings | related knowledge directory subscription services | advertising | terms of use | privacy notice | contact us copyright© 1998-2012 penton media, inc.
"they're really going to be flexing their industrial muscles over  the next year or two," says aboulafia, who is vice president, analysis,  for the teal group.
" "we're going to have to form more what i'll characterize as  relationships down the supply chain," king says.
"the bottom line," says pwc's thompson, "is our recommendation that all companies really scrutinize the supply base, and really talk to their suppliers about what their plans are.
rss as boeing and airbus ramp up, it's crunch time for aerospace suppliers fueled by surging demand in asia, commercial-aircraft production is  hitting record levels.
"so they have eight years of backlog at current production rates," thompson says.
and as part of that cutting back, they let go of experienced, key talent because it cost too much, and they tried to backfill that with lower-caliber individuals."
more news » b/e aerospace inc. heads into 2012 flush with optimism.
"the bottom line," says pwc's thompson, "is our  recommendation that all companies really scrutinize the supply base, and really  talk to their suppliers about what their plans are.
"it could be the smallest component that could really come back and get you," gates says.
the company's robust commercial-aircraft business helped rockwell collins post a 15% increase in fiscal 2011 earnings per share and boost overall revenue from $4.6 billion in fiscal 2010 to $4.8 billion in 2011 -- despite a decline in its government business.
register today for the iw best plants conference.
despite soaring to all-time highs in sales, earnings, cash flow and  bookings in 2011, the sky could be the limit for b/e aerospace.
the company's electronics and communications systems have a major presence on the 787 dreamliner -- which features more rockwell collins content than any other commercial jet in the company's history -- as well as the boeing 747-8 and the airbus a350.
the company is forecasting a 23% jump in 2012 earnings per diluted share, thanks to a record backlog of $7.9 billion and "our expectation for continued growth in global passenger travel and attendant increases in capacity," khoury said in february.
driven by design by doug bartholomew making parts by adding -- not subtracting -- material catches on.
"a lot of companies cut way back.
to supply its modular lavatory system for the next-generation 737 and the 737  max.
a recent pwc report assessing the operational readiness of the aerospace supply chain notes that the aircraft oems have "pushed much of the design and manufacturing work to suppliers, often in the form of risk-sharing partnerships.
" rockwell collins keeps the lines of communication open with its supply chain through a number of mechanisms, including an annual supplier conference and an advisory council comprised of representatives from key suppliers.
in february, b/e aerospace chairman and ceo amin khoury declared that the boeing order could be "our most important award ever."
"[the suppliers] can't keep up.
"for this industry,  that's very, very challenging.
king notes that the company employs an "integrated business  model," in which its government and commercial divisions share  manufacturing, quality-control, purchasing and r&d resources and facilities.
but also they need to independently assess what their realistic capabilities are to increase throughput and, if necessary, to have the capital expenditures to keep up.
" gumbert, a former fighter pilot who named his consulting group after  the f-14 tomcat that he flew in the navy, says he saw this production crunch  coming.
the most recent data from pwc show that the number of mergers and acquisitions in the aerospace and defense industry has surged steadily from 173 in 2002 to a record 341 in 2011.
while 2011 marked the first year that boeing and airbus combined to deliver more than 1,000 commercial airplanes (477 for boeing and 534 for airbus), the aerospace titans also ended 2011 with a record combined backlog of more than 8,000 jets (3,771 for boeing and 4,437 for airbus).
"and they've been taking up the production steadily in recent years.
the evolution of sales & operations planning: moving beyond the "single plan" engineering and manufacturing systems infrastructure decisions support global growth: a cummins case study more webinars » new white papers more white papers » new white papers more white papers » how likely is it that you will receive a performance-based pay increase this year?
technical questions or bug reports?
at the same time, gumbert has watched the aerospace supply chain  shrink through consolidation and acquisitions.
khoury  pointed out that the $800 million order not only positions b/e aerospace as a  tier 1 supplier to boeing but also opens the door for "substantial"  opportunities to retrofit existing jets with the modular lavatories.
"so they have eight years of backlog at current production  rates," thompson says.
"it really gives us an opportunity to hear from our suppliers  about what we can do to be more effective in how we engage with them,"  king says.
"now [the suppliers are] going to try to produce, and they're not going to be able to -- which is going to put more angst on the individuals running these organizations.
final assembly of the a330 and a340 takes place at a hangar at toulouse/blagnac airport (pictured here) in southwestern france.
but we're seeing more responsibility rolling down the supply chain, and more assumption that they'll step up and assume a broader role," gates adds.
"the supply chain really took a hit back in late 2008, early  2009," says chuck gumbert, founder of the tomcat group, a wichita,  kan.-based aerospace and aviation consulting firm.
" richard aboulafia, however, is a bit more sanguine about the prospects of the industry meeting its production targets.
in the case of the dreamliner, transferring more risk to boeing's far-flung global supply chain added "a lot of complexity" and "a lot of failure points" to the program, gates says.
like b/e aerospace, cedar rapids, iowa-based rockwell collins is in a  prime position to profit from the global boom in commercial-aircraft sales.
" in its most recent market forecast, boeing predicted that surging  demand in the asia pacific region will propel a $4 trillion market for new  commercial aircraft over the next 20 years.
" the much-publicized shortage of fasteners for the 787 dreamliner --  one of a number of supply chain glitches that pushed the program three years  behind schedule -- illustrates how, in this new dynamic, one supplier's risk is  everyone's risk, asserts doug gates, a partner in kpmg's global aerospace &  defense practice.
the larger suppliers, hamilton adds, aren't the only ones biting their nails.
the company is  forecasting a 23% jump in 2012 earnings per diluted share, thanks to a record  backlog of $7.9 billion and "our expectation for continued growth in  global passenger travel and attendant increases in capacity," khoury said  in february.
"i had a good discussion with a large oem this morning, and they  said, 'yeah, we're already starting to see it,'"
" "we're going to have to form more what i'll characterize as relationships down the supply chain," king says.
like b/e aerospace, cedar rapids, iowa-based rockwell collins is in a prime position to profit from the global boom in commercial-aircraft sales.