i would think that any problems that do come up would be due to economic or political instability in the suppliers host country.
boeing has as many (or more) suppliers as airbus does - but no co-equal prime contractor as airbus had.
comments () pat patterson - #4 - 2007-01-26 04:28 - ( reply)
comments () add comment name email homepage
in reply to [ top level ]#1: pat patterson on 2007-01-20 05:05 #2: don s on 2007-01-22 13:21 #3: pat patterson on 2007-01-22 23:28 #4: pat patterson on 2007-01-26 04:28 comment e-mail addresses will not be displayed and will only be used for e-mail notifications.
boeing admitted today, 1/25/07, that the 787 might be delayed because of problems with the inflight wireless entertainment system.
both boeing and airbus are using virtual construction software from the dassault systems of france.
the software will "design" a door
i devoutly hope that is the case.
the french design team used dassault and the german team used a much more limited and older system.
so far i think only the 787 uses this method but boeing has hired dassault for all of its next generation of airframes.
thus the extensive rewiring that was called for in the a380.
contact us email joerg wolf and kyle atwell at: ar-team at atlanticreview.org
2007 american bloggers about germany posted by editors in german politics on friday, january 19.
and in the redesigned a350.
the only thing we have to fear is fear itself categories
my understanding is that the german airbus design team and german politicians with board seats on airbus and eads are adamant that dassault's software not be used except in france.
your comment will only be submitted if the strings match.
why design a good product if it will not be used and thus will not reward the designers?
the suppliers will not design but rather construct.
added without dassault's software and now 5 times heavier than planned and unreliable to boot.
" endnote: all about germany has a personal take on "american vs german business culture" (apparently the author is neither american nor german, but she studied in germany and describes herself as a "nomad.")
as an aside i would like to point out that i do not wish airbus ill will.
iran - iraq - terrorism - merkel - germany - european union - polls - book corner - + anti-americanisms in world politics - + anti-americanism and anti-semitism - + sweig: friendly fire - + using the united states to scare germans - + u.s. spirit of civic responsibility - + the greatest asset of the american - + atlantic academy after 10 years - + banned books week - + us prophets of europe's doom - + five germanys - + history of the research university - + how fulbrigthers experience america - + american exceptionalism - + arrogance of power - + state of denial - + humanitarian activist marla ruzicka - + about bullshit and truthiness - + soccer and american exceptionalism - + books about the bush administration - subscribe - html newsletter twice a month - plain email notifications twice a month - various rss feeds  friday, january 19.
to prevent automated bots from commentspamming, please enter the string you see in the image below in the appropriate input box.
remember information?
the problem with airbus was just as i stated.
i agree that boeing's reliance on a multitude of suppliers could cause design and construction problems.
comments () don s - #2 - 2007-01-22 13:21 - ( reply) the more interesting question is whether boeing and all it's suppliers are using the same software?
sponsor fulbright alumni e.v. support this site use these links to shop at amazon usa or amazon deutschland: blogroll recommended blogs hot topics click on one of the following links to see all atlantic review posts about this topic in a chronological order with the latest post on top: afghanistan anti-americanism economics iran iraq merkel polls terrorism click here for the full list of all topics.
home - about us - newsletter - transatlantic relations - us foreign policy - various rss feeds designed for atlantic review by carl.
subscribe to one of our rss-feeds or to ournewsletter.
else it will repeat all the problems it had in the previous two decades.
then these schematics are constructed at boeing and its various suppliers using the plans that the software vetted.
but boeing is using this software solely on its current and future airframes while airbus has been forced to make do with the french design team using dassault and the german team using siemens and sap.
at least i hope to not read about any wing problems in the future.
2007 • german joys about potential clemency for raf terrorists: "freedom for mohnhaupt and klar?" • dialog international about the "innovation deficit in germany" • coming anarchy about p olicy on russia: "merkel lets the cat officially out of the bag.
direct links to our latest posts recent entries gingrich, romney rely on eurobashing to "define their america" "germany has the economic strengths america once boasted" "what germans don't understand about america" "europe" is a dirty word in the united states republicans campaign with anti-european rhetoric some good news for a change: afghanistan's pop idol my predictions for 2012 "the united states should breathe new life into the atlantic  community" the unfinished business after the end of the iraq war transatlantic unity on marijuana
you are reading the atlantic review, a press digest on transatlantic relations combined with commentary and analysis.
the "innovation deficit in germany" reminded me of the difficulties that airbus is having with the a380.
follow atlantic review on facebook or on twitter.
the result being delays and cost overruns from incompatible design work.
a very late update if anybody is still reaidng this thread.
comments () pat patterson - #3 - 2007-01-22 23:28 - ( reply) that may keep them out of a380 hell.
what i'm sure is stifling innovation is the rejection of the best solution, regardless of nationality, for local or rather intranational political needs.
bulkheads, wiring,etc., even whether the installer can reach into smaller places and attach the door on to the proper tolerances.
we are available for interviews, and appreciate feedback and suggestions.
please ensure that your browser supports and accepts cookies, or your comment cannot be verified correctly.
boeing can only remain competitive if it has a strong rivalry with airbus.
but on the 787 the risk seems to have paid off.
subscribe and follow welcome!
but then it will install the door on a virtual airframe that will show if there are any problems, ie.
subscribe to this entry
- home - about - about the atlantic review - impressum, masthead, disclaimer - contact us - direct links to our latest posts - recent entries - perception of germany - - gingrich, romney rely on eurobashing to "define their america" - - "germany has the economic strengths america once boasted" - - "what germans don't understand about america" - - "europe" is a dirty word in the united states - - republicans campaign with anti-european rhetoric - - some good news for a change: afghanistan's pop idol - - my predictions for 2012 - - "the united states should breathe new life into the atlantic community" - - the unfinished business after the end of the iraq war - - transatlantic unity on marijuana - - the only thing we have to fear is fear itself - - categories - transatlantic relations - us foreign policy - us domestic issues - german domestic politics - international economics - fulbright news - fulbright projects - - - popular topics - anti-americanism - nato - afghanistan -
the way i understand it is that boeing used the dassault software to design and then construct all the plane and then put the various pieces out to bid or assignment.
defined tags for this entry: economics, germany, merkel trackbacks trackback specific uri for this entry no trackbacks comments display comments as ( linear | threaded) pat patterson - #1 - 2007-01-20 05:05 - ( reply)
enter the string from the spam-prevention image above: