ilfc’s ceo and founder, steven udvar-hazy, is trying to arrange financing to buy the company back from aig, which bought it from hazy and his co-founders in 1990.
seattle post-intelligencer: boeing’s carson confident of settlement.
in addition, the department will recommend to the congress the disposition of the pending fy09 funding for the tanker program and plans to continue funding the kc-x program in the fy10 to fy15 budget presently under review.
we remain pessemistic about any early settlement.
which means either others are looking for  a long strike (we only hear 4-6 weeks and bell would be happy with only a  month) or there are deeper issues in the 787 program.
brazil, like the us, europe and canada (for bombardier), offers export financing support, too.
update, 11:45 am pdt: commercial aviation online posted its story.
the situation has changed so dramatically in just the last seven days that we are now concerned there will quickly be a financing crisis for the airlines.
bloomberg now also reports cancellation.
(disclosure: we have a long-term  holding in boeing stock.)
we don’t think that will happen and we believe the stock market is  off base on this one.
sufficient funds will be recommended in the fy09 and follow-on budgets to maintain the kc-135 at high-mission capable rates.
secretary gates, in consultation with senior  defense and air force officials, has determined that the solicitation and award  cannot be accomplished by january.
we may offer the same airplane or something  new depending on what the requirements are.
this article may be found here, with the registration process the first thing you will see.
he has said for years that airbus received “illegal” subsidies and presumes the wto will back up the ustr complaint.
boeing ceo jim mcnerney gambled in taking on the pentagon over  the tanker, and won.
boeing has been very clear that  it views any changed to the specifications for a larger airplane as requiring a  compete re-start, and having won its political point and getting dod secretary  robert gates to cancel the northrop grumman award, boeing and its supporters  are hardly likely to support anything absent a full do-over.
september 9: the wall street journal reports the department of defense  has canceled the competition for the kc-x tanker.
for the iam, it’s not that simple and  without resolving the list of issues, these elements would become part of a  contract.
a350 looks good on paper and we have the resources to invest the r&d  necessary to respond
the situation has changed so dramatically in just the last seven days that  we are now concerned there will quickly be a financing crisis for the airlines.
“we are really feeling comfortable” due to diversity in backlog  around the world.
politics continue to plague the tanker program even though the bush administration has punted the decision to the next presidency.
categories:airbus, boeing tags: airbus, boeing week 4: iam-boeing strike september 29, 2008 1 comment update, october 2: here’s a new twist.
customers are able to get better  deals out of the market than boeing’s backstop financing.
boeing cfo james bell told a morgan  stanley conference that the dod has canceled the procurement and an entirely  new request for proposal process will begin.
the headline of the story is about the strike lowering demand for titanium.
most objective observers, including us, agree with his biased viewpoint on this one.
mobile press-register: mccain ‘just doesn’t get it,’ claims obama.
they want all the work done there, which  isn’t practical, and we want flexibility and we’ll come in between.
the resulting “cooling off” period will allow the  next administration to review objectively the military requirements and craft a  new acquisition strategy for the kc-x.” in making  this decision, it was concluded that the current kc-135 fleet can be adequately  maintained to satisfy air force missions for the near future.
there would have  to be a full reassessment by the joint requirement oversight council (jroc) and  the request for information (rfi) process; the defense acquisition board  reviews and approval of the request for proposal; determination of the source  selection authority; and the actual evaluation process.
here are some excerpts: with no us bailout package on the table, the aviation finance market  remains frozen unable to make sound decisions in an uncertain climate.
sufficient  funds will be recommended in the fy09 and follow-on budgets to maintain the  kc-135 at high-mission capable rates.
we estimated that strike-related bca revenue loss was more like $75 million to $83 million a day.
there is also some  reporting on the iam “standstill.”
bloomberg: boeing ceo cites economic downturn, sees risk to backlog and need for boeing to finance customers.
the report: the pentagon cancels tanker competition, saying it’s impossible  to pick a winner by january.
military.com’s blog reports some northrop supports are trying to figure a way to offer to sell 20 kc-30s to the air force on a “commercial deal” that would by-pass the ordinary procurement process.
this compares with the widely reported figure of $100 million to $110  million a day, which was actually deferred or “lost” revenue, but  which is also quite a bit higher than it should be because these figures  don’t take into account the unaffected businesses within boeing  commercial airplanes that continue to produce revenue:
boeing, because plans by airbus to build the a330-200f in  us-dollar based alabama are put on hold.
categories: boeing tags: 787, boeing, ilfc
we don’t have a figure for airbus, but we believe that most of its  backlog is similarly eligible for the european credit agency (eca) financing.
the headline of the story is about the strike lowering  demand for titanium.
most bankers are putting off any decisions because there are no good  decisions right now,” says a london-based banker.
each believed  that money to finance airplanes was available, albeit more expensive, and that  neither would have to step up to provide backstop financing until the second  half of next year.
chicago tribune: obama slams mccain for ties to eads, tanker controversy.
update, sept. 11: dod buzz: iag does a 16 minute podcast with dod buzz,  relating a conversation with us rep. norm dicks (d-boeing) about a possible  split buy on the tanker (right at the top of the podcast); and the possibility  that northrop might offer a commercial deal to sell 20 kc-30s to the usaf  (about 11:45 minutes).
some inside boeing told us they believe that this event will help trigger a  settlement.
it is my judgment that in the time remaining to us, we can no longer complete a competition that would be viewed as fair and objective in this highly charged environment.
it could be a small twin-aisle.
aviation week: this is a good summary of the stand-off  between iam and boeing.
there is significant profit  to accommodate all the costs.
the orders, especially for the 787, are a great asset for ilfc and will be an important part of any sale of the company.
the ngc ceo calls the move “chilling.
aviation week: dod’s gates eyed changes to rfp before canceling contract.
inside defense is a paid-subscription service only but readers may register for free and receive three free articles (and then pay a la carte thereafter).
murtha predicted that in a re-compete, northrop is likely to receive the order because its plane is ready to go.
based on his information that the monthly cash cost is about $1.3 billion, this means the daily cash cost is about $43 million.
after boeing protested the  northrop award, boeing’s spin shifted to “what’s the hurry?
ilfc’s ceo and founder, steven udvar-hazy, is trying to arrange  financing to buy the company back from aig, which bought it from hazy and his  co-founders in 1990.
[with a refresh or a new airplane].
bloomberg: boeing ceo cites economic downturn, sees risk  to backlog and need for boeing to finance customers.
there would have to be a full reassessment by the joint requirement oversight council (jroc) and the request for information (rfi) process; the defense acquisition board reviews and approval of the request for proposal; determination of the source selection authority; and the actual evaluation process.
update, 7:00 pm sept. 10: business week reports that eads is pondering a legal challenge to the dod decision to cancel the competition.
categories: boeing tags: boeing september 10, 2008 27 comments update, sept. 12: reuters: eads threatens no-bid in round 4.
in addition, the department will  recommend to the congress the disposition of the pending fy09 funding for the  tanker program and plans to continue funding the kc-x program in the fy10 to  fy15 budget presently under review.
our colleagues at commercial aviation online, the finance-oriented  publication of theflight global family, paints a dire picture emerging in  aviation finance in our conversations with them.
categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, eads, northrop tags: air force tanker, boeing, northrop boeing and the iam entered the third week of the strike last saturday and there is no sign of any progress.
although the top leadership at the pentagon might change (even though there has been plenty of speculation that dod secretary could stay on, no matter whether mccain or obama is elected), presumably the evaluators would not change–only the deciders.
this development is not good news.
inside defense is a paid subscription service but with  registration you can get three freebies, including this article.
first northrop threatened a no-bid.
what we are seeing now is what  happened to the japanese banks.
what happens next and what are the ramifications for northrop, eads,  boeing and the air force?
update, 11:45 am pdt: reuters has this interview with northrop grumman’s ceo about the decision by dod secretary robert gates to cancel the contract.
bell predicts the strike will last at least a month.
but the bottom line is that things are going south faster than anyone believed in aviation finance.
here are some excerpts: with no us bailout package on the table, the aviation finance market remains frozen unable to make sound decisions in an uncertain climate.
this is  a good analysis with a good illutration of where parts of the 787 are built.
boeing ceo jim mcnerney gambled in taking on the pentagon over the tanker, and won.
an iam official predicted at the start of the strike that the iam could  bleed boeing of its $10 billion in cash in a matter of a few months.
but that’s not the only issue we’re apart on.
original posting: we spoke with the iam and boeing and each side is waiting for the other to  pick up the phone and ask to talk.
update, september 30: bloomberg news has this short item  about customers for embraer having difficulting financing the planes that were  ordered.
update, september 26: inside defense reports that us rep. john murtha (d-pa),  chairman of the house appropriations subcommittee, says a split buy between  northrop and boeing is the only way to recapitalize the usaf tanker program any  time soon.
what happens next and what are the ramifications for northrop, eads, boeing and the air force?
murtha predicted that in a re-compete, northrop is likely to receive the  order because its plane is ready to go.
brazil, like the us, europe and canada (for bombardier), offers export  financing support, too.
defense industry daily: a400m delays creating contract  controversies.
update, september 30: bloomberg news has this short item about customers for embraer having difficulting financing the planes that were ordered.
composites don’t scale  down as well as they scale up.
the pentagon says northrop is due tens of millions of dollars for the canceled tanker contract.
in boeing’s case, the company has said on several  occasions that about 83% of its backlog may be financed by the us export-import  bank.
this is a good analysis with a good illutration of where parts of the 787 are built.
this is an important distinction from postponing the competition.
we  are not at a complete impasse.
we suppose that in theory it could but in practice it’s unlikely.
(ok, boeing  didn’t actually make the bankruptcy claim but you get the drift.)
boeing cfo james bell told a morgan stanley conference the program  delay should be one day-for-one day.
although the top leadership at the pentagon  might change (even though there has been plenty of speculation that dod  secretary could stay on, no matter whether mccain or obama is elected),  presumably the evaluators would not change–only the deciders.
today we play catch-up with selected stories of interest.
the us government  has bailed out aig for $85 billion (which would fund the acquisition of 360  usaf tankers, btw, but that’s a different issue) and plans to have an  orderly sale of aig assets.
the department of defense is expected to notify  congress and the companies today.
this compares with the widely reported figure of $100 million to $110 million a day, which was actually deferred or “lost” revenue, but which is also quite a bit higher than it should be because these figures don’t take into account the unaffected businesses within boeing commercial airplanes that continue to produce revenue:
we are going to  retain our ability to be competitive.
there’s plenty of life left in the kc-135s.”
update, 11:45 am pdt: reuters has this interview with northrop grumman’s ceo about the  decision by dod secretary robert gates to cancel the contract.
outsourcing is major concern with the iam strike.
the a350-1000 challenge to the 777:
military.com’s blog reports some northrop supports are trying to figure a  way to offer to sell 20 kc-30s to the air force on a “commercial  deal” that would by-pass the ordinary procurement process.
categories:airbus, boeing tags: airbus, boeing update, october 2: here’s a new twist.
(later says one-for-one for every day there is a  strike.)
see potential losers.
categories: boeing tags: 787, boeing, ilfc what now for the tanker?
murtha generally has been supportive of boeing’s kc-767 tanker  proposal.
we say perhaps the us taxpayer was going to benefit after all  from all those “illegal” subsidies alleged to be provided to airbus.
categories: boeing tags: 787, boeing, iam boeing speaks to morgan stanley september 10, 2008 1 comment the boeing chief financial officer spoke to the morgan stanley conference  september 10.
inside defense is a paid subscription service but with registration you can get three freebies, including this article.
based on the information we had at the time, we generally agreed.
“no one wants a rfp right now.
after boeing protested the northrop award, boeing’s spin shifted to “what’s the hurry?
most bankers are putting off any decisions because there are no good decisions right now,” says a london-based banker.
today, boeing stock is down on fears ilfc’s troubles will lead ilfc to cancel orders for 74 787s and some 30 737s.
boeing, also because it gets a third shot at the tanker  contract in what will be round 4 of the process (including the abortive re-bid  that was just ash-canned).
washington post: defense buyer says northrop’s bid was $3bn cheaper than boeing.
what we are seeing now is what happened to the japanese banks.
seattle post-intelligencer: obama rips mccain on outsourcing.
the motley fool takes a whimsical look at the tanker debacle.
today we play  catch-up with selected stories of interest.
jd crowe at mobile press-register business week: boeing’s ceo beat the pentagon, but lost some, too.
original post: washington times: [tanker] rigged in boeing’s favor.
(a separate government-funded study took a different view, arguing  there was plenty of life left in the airplanes.)
update, september 24: seattle post-intelligencer: columnist bill virgin has an  interesting piece speculating what happens to boeing in the puget sound  (seattle) region when the strike is over.
join 998 other followers get every new post delivered to your inbox.
update, september 25: be careful what you ask for.
airbus and boeing downplayed the declining credit markets (our conversations with them being about two weeks ago, before things really began to go south).
aviation week: this is a good summary of the stand-off between iam and boeing.
question: what are the sticking points, are you at an impasse.
what caught our eye is the additional delay in the program.
jd crowe at the mobile press register is at it again.
(disclosure: we have a long-term holding in boeing stock.)
categories: boeing tags: 787, boeing, iam the boeing chief financial officer spoke to the morgan stanley conference september 10.
the air force’s top buyer predicts a flyoff between boeing and northrop for the tanker contract.
this is an important distinction  from postponing the competition.
as any aviation advocate knows, the future of international lease finance corp. is uncertain due to the problems at its parent, aig.
the iam liability, if any, is another matter.
(we count the kc-330 as a broader eads program; the a400m is airbus.)
boeing has been very clear that it views any changed to the specifications for a larger airplane as requiring a compete re-start, and having won its political point and getting dod secretary robert gates to cancel the northrop grumman award, boeing and its supporters are hardly likely to support anything absent a full do-over.
we have a pretty good model for 1,000 planes about what the pricing ought  to be and we have a pretty good idea what the costs will be for costs and  we’re getting a pretty good idea what the penalties will be, and [all-in]  i’m not going to tell you what that will be.
update, 11:45 am pdt: commercial aviation online posted  its story.
there is also some reporting on the iam “standstill.”
by outsourcing work to these countries, aviation’s big four are creating new competitors.
here’s our take: winners boeing, its lobbying efforts, its congressional supporters and  boeing’s labor unions.
the kc-767,  or if boeing elects to offer a kc-777 and should it be selected, will be built  in washington and modified in kansas.
in the meantime, in what is a reversal of rhetoric by boeing and dod, both now take the position that the aging kc-135 tankers are good enough to last while the competition is re-run.
everett herald: the iam’s health benefits end oct. 1 .
afp (europe): politics charged in cancellation.
it will take five to ten years to get out of  this mess.”
the air  force’s top buyer predicts a flyoff between boeing and northrop for the  tanker contract.
the orders, especially for the 787, are a great asset for ilfc and will be  an important part of any sale of the company.
seattle post-intelligencer: obama rips mccain on  outsourcing.
due to uncertain market conditions, a number of aviation deals that are currently in the works are likely to be renegotiated.
read  more… categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, eads,  northrop tags: airbus, boeing, eads, iam, northrop week 2, iam-boeing strike september 13, 2008 1 comment as the boeing strike enters week 2, we continue our “media  watch” for continuing coverage.
the mediator is staying in touch with each side, but there’s little for him to do as present.
now  reuters reportsthat eads denies the first story.
this is an important distinction from merely postponing the competition  from the bush administration to the next administration.
september 13: forbes: analyst predicts additional 3-6 mo 787 delay  before the strike.
he adds: “it is hard to say anything concrete right now except  that if the current crisis continues, we are in big trouble.
the p-i’s james wallace also has a q&a  with carson.
inside defense: flyoff will determine tanker win.
categories: boeing tags: boeing, iam politics continue on the tanker september 22, 2008 14 comments (special projects precluded us from updating last week, so some of the  links below backtrack into then.)
business week: this magazine predicts a two month strike.
engine  technology needed.
“we have looked at it, we’ve seen it,” and  have not had more than normal kind of deferrals and cancellations.
categories: boeing tags: boeing, iam (special projects precluded us from updating last week, so some of the links below backtrack into then.)
marketwatch: iam strike may be hurting themselves.
our colleagues at commercial aviation online, the finance-oriented publication of theflight global family, paints a dire picture emerging in aviation finance in our conversations with them.
be that as it may, who are the winners and losers in the decision by secretary gates to punt this to the next administration?
how long for the strike before delivery of 787 slips to 2010?
the capital markets were already driving up pricing on debt and driving out many lending institutions from the aviation market.
see the last bullet point of our post of bell’s presentation.
september 9: the wall street journal reports the department of defense has canceled the competition for the kc-x tanker.
update, 10:45 am pdt: here is the statement by defense secretary robert gates:dod
but will it cost boeing in the  coming war?
highlights as the presentation proceeds: (unless there are quotation marks indicating a direct quote, bell’s comments are paraphrased as we took notes in real time during the presentation.)
categories: boeing tags:boeing, iam
we will respond when we know what it  is.
steve trimble at flight international has one of his  as-usual insightful blog items.
see the last bullet point of our post of  bell’s presentation.
we don’t think that will happen and we believe the stock market is off base on this one.
what caught our eye is the additional delay in  the program.
categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, bombardier tags: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, bombardier, embrarer failed bail-out bad news for aviation september 29, 2008 5  comments the collapse of the $700 billion bailout of the us financial system is bad  news for aviation.
update, september 24: mobile press-register: gates against tanker split buy.
(paid subscription required.)
boeing insists that the iam narrow down its “wants” to two or three items from the three pages presented at the last-ditch florida talks immediately preceding the walk-out.
northrop entitled to termination fee.
aviation week: dod’s gates eyed changes to rfp  before canceling contract.
boeing’s ids defense division is avoiding bidding on fixed price  contracts going forward.
only 3% of our  backlog has been financed by boeing.
-start by the air force/dod on the competition will probably take  anywhere from two-four years before a new contract is awarded.
it was bound to happen: the tanker is now fully caught up  in presidential politics.
but most objective observers, including us, also think the wto will find  boeing received “illegal” subsidies as well–something dicks  and other boeing supporters in congress seem blind to.
secretary gates stated, “over the past seven years the process has become  enormously complex and emotional – in no small part because of mistakes  and missteps along the way by the department of defense.
everything is being delayed and  many deals will have to be revisited,” says another banker.
seattle post-intelligencer: boeing’s carson  confident of settlement.
throughout the competition both originally took the position that there was great urgency to proceed with the tanker replacement program because the kc-135s were essentially ready to fall out of the sky.
part of this is the large segments of their respective order  backlogs that are eligible for export credit financing backed by the european  and us governments.
here is an update  with more information.
we think boeing’s customer contracts preclude strike-caused delays.
separately, we  learned from two sources that us cargo airline atlas air considered a plan to  buy the winning tanker and provide fueling services to the usaf.
politics continue to plague the tanker program even though the bush  administration has punted the decision to the next presidency.
be that as it may, who are the winners and losers in the decision by  secretary gates to punt this to the next administration?
this  development is not good news.
secretary gates, in consultation with senior defense and air force officials, has determined that the solicitation and award cannot be accomplished by january.
alteon (pilot training),  aviall (maintenance) and jeppessen (maps and related stuff).
enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
but the bottom line  is that things are going south faster than anyone believed in aviation finance.
“right now, there is no interbank lending and banks are hoarding  cash.
part of this is the large segments of their respective order backlogs that are eligible for export credit financing backed by the european and us governments.
the us government has bailed out aig for $85 billion (which would fund the acquisition of 360 usaf tankers, btw, but that’s a different issue) and plans to have an orderly sale of aig assets.
initial deliveries (undefined) will be at  zero profit (doesn’t quantify what a loss per plane might be).
us rep. norm dicks  (d-boeing/washington) announced that he’s inserted language in a new  house bill to require the usaf or dod to review any adverse ruling from the  world trade organization on the “illegal” subsidies complaints  filed by the us trade representative and the european union against airbus and  boeing.
boeing insists that the iam narrow down its “wants” to two or  three items from the three pages presented at the last-ditch florida talks  immediately preceding the walk-out.
dod’s john young said the smaller kc-767 should have been cheaper to buy than northrop’s kc-30–but it wasn’t.
everything is being delayed and many deals will have to be revisited,” says another banker.
separately, we learned from two sources that us cargo airline atlas air considered a plan to buy the winning tanker and provide fueling services to the usaf.
throughout the competition both originally  took the position that there was great urgency to proceed with the tanker  replacement program because the kc-135s were essentially ready to fall out of  the sky.
however, even with a us bailout don’t expect a panacea.
corporate website updated 9/30 september 30, 2008 leave a comment this week we discuss the dangers of technology transfers to china, russia  and japan by airbus, boeing, bombardier and embraerin our bi-weekly update of  our corporate website.
furthermore, it’s a paid-subscription service, so while we’ll be able to synopsize stories when the time comes, we won’t’ be able to fully reproduce them here.
right now there is a one-for-one (day-for-day) slip on the 787 and all  other programs due to the strike.
wall street journal: here is the full article, but paid  subscription may be required.
gates’ decision keeps them in the  game.
september 14: seattle post-intelligencer: bca president scott carson  hopes talks will resume in a “couple of weeks” and a settlement  will come shortly thereafter.
”categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, bombardier tags: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, bombardier, embrarer
the report: the pentagon cancels tanker competition, saying it’s impossible to pick a winner by january.
out of all the twists and turns in the seven year old effort to replace aging boeing kc-135 aerial tankers, no one we spoke with predicted that the department of defense last week would dump the entire competition in the trash can.
murtha generally has been supportive of boeing’s kc-767 tanker proposal.
in today’s column we discuss the tanker, how much the iam strike is costing boeing every day and how long the strike may last.
furthermore, it’s a paid-subscription  service, so while we’ll be able to synopsize stories when the time comes,  we won’t’ be able to fully reproduce them here.
furthermore, even if ilfc were to cancel, other lessors and airlines will snap up these positions, resulting in no net loss in orders for boeing.
we suppose that in theory  it could but in practice it’s unlikely.
washington state and kansas.
announces termination of kc-x tanker solicitation today, the department of defense notified the congress and the two competing contractors, boeing and northrop grumman, that it is terminating the current competition for a u.s. air force airborne tanker replacement.
the resulting “cooling off” period will allow the next administration to review objectively the military requirements and craft a new acquisition strategy for the kc-x.” in making this decision, it was concluded that the current kc-135 fleet can be adequately maintained to satisfy air force missions for the near future.
(we write forcao as  well.)
the p-i’s james wallace also has a q&a with carson.
most objective  observers, including us, agree with his biased viewpoint on this one.
delay on the 787: bell says we are not overly concerned about growth in  costs vs escalation costs in contracts, but will have to negotiate with  customers on payments that might cover the costs.
inside defense is a paid-subscription service only but readers may register  for free and receive three free articles (and then pay a la carte thereafter).
he is concerned about the cancellation of the tanker competition but  boeing needs time to prepare proper bid.
but they are still constructing their stories, and we’re obligated to me ambiguous at this stage.
he’s added language to the 2009 defense appropriations bill directing the dod to study the feasibility of a split buy, inside defense reports.
update, september 26: inside defense reports that us rep. john murtha (d-pa), chairman of the house appropriations subcommittee, says a split buy between northrop and boeing is the only way to recapitalize the usaf tanker program any time soon.
categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, eads,  northrop tags: air force tanker, boeing, northrop week 3, iam-boeing strike september 22, 2008 1 comment boeing and the iam entered the third week of the strike last saturday and  there is no sign of any progress.
out of all the twists and turns in the seven year old effort to replace  aging boeing kc-135 aerial tankers, no one we spoke with predicted that the  department of defense last week would dump the entire competition in the trash  can.
dod buzz has this piece.
the capital markets were already driving up pricing on debt and driving out  many lending institutions from the aviation market.
the full house has to approve dicks’ language (likely) and then the senate has to agree (unlikely).
one piece of math in the article that dom didn’t do is to present the  daily cash drain for boeing.
as of last week, the two sides weren’t  even talking about talking.
today, boeing stock is down on fears ilfc’s troubles will lead ilfc  to cancel orders for 74 787s and some 30 737s.
james bell is the presenter.
update, sept. 12: reuters: eads threatens no-bid in round 4.
we think boeing’s customer contracts preclude  strike-caused delays.
we have been preparing for the possibility that we will have to help our  (us) domestic customers (for financing) but the reality is we haven’t had  to.
in this respect, the airlines may just decide that the longer a boeing strike the better.
wall street journal: here is the full article, but paid subscription may be required.
plus any additional appeals of the decision.
here’s our take: winners as the boeing strike enters week 2, we continue our “media watch” for continuing coverage.
he adds: “it is hard to say anything concrete right now except that if the current crisis continues, we are in big trouble.
our take: we agreed with boeing that six months was reasonable to do the re-bid, but we don’t know why the analysis could not have transcended administrations.
a lot of the backlog we have for orders is supported by the ability to  share the work in other countries.
highlights as the presentation  proceeds: (unless there are quotation marks indicating a direct quote, bell’s
september 29: seattle times: dominic gates has this detailed analysis of  the strike and its cost to both sides.
productivity efficiencies  will be important to keep costs down.
chicago tribune: obama slams mccain for ties to eads,  tanker controversy.
(we write forcao as well.)
september 29: seattle times: dominic gates has this detailed analysis of the strike and its cost to both sides.
“we are in sort of  a cooling off period,” he said.
comments are paraphrased as we took notes in real time during the presentation.)
reuters: boeing’s ceo gambles on strike.
“that  doesn’t mean we’re not concerned about it, or looking at it,”  but right now 80% of our backlog is exim financable.”
one piece of math in the article that dom didn’t do is to present the daily cash drain for boeing.
murtha, according to the publication, acknowledged that boeing and dod don’t like the idea and he didn’t know if northrop does, “but let me tell you something, we’re not going to have tankers if we don’t do that, i’m convinced,” inside defense quotes murtha as saying.
dod buzz: direct sale of kc-30 to usaf pondered.
cnn/dow jones: eads howls over contract cancellation.
alteon (pilot training), aviall (maintenance) and jeppessen (maps and related stuff).
full article to follow.
dod has actually canceled this procurement and this means an entirely new  rfp.
i don’t think the cseries will change dynamics that  materially, engine technology could, but issue is reliability.
seattle times: timeline in tanker saga.
which means either others are looking for a long strike (we only hear 4-6 weeks and bell would be happy with only a month) or there are deeper issues in the 787 program.
it will take five to ten years to get out of this mess.”
dod’s john young said the smaller kc-767  should have been cheaper to buy than northrop’s kc-30–but it  wasn’t.
boeing cfo james bell told a morgan stanley conference the program delay should be one day-for-one day.
there is enough liquidity in the market.
update, 10:45 am pdt: here is the statement by defense  secretary robert gates: dod announces termination of kc-x tanker  solicitation
update, september 24: seattle post-intelligencer: columnist bill virgin has an interesting piece speculating what happens to boeing in the puget sound (seattle) region when the strike is over.
us sen. richard shelby (r-northrop/alabama) writes in an op-ed piece that  dod’s decision punting the tanker to the next presidency was nothing more  than a sop to boeing.
washington post: defense buyer says northrop’s bid  was $3bn cheaper than boeing.
this article may be found here, with the registration process the first thing  you will see.
my basic understanding on tanker is that the dod has canceled the contract  and there will be a new rfp issued.
maybe this could be  the new tanker: categories: air force tanker, boeing, northrop tags: air  force tanker, boeing, northrop older entries
he’s added language to the 2009 defense appropriations bill directing  the dod to study the feasibility of a split buy, inside defense reports.
september 16, 2008 3 comments in today’s column we discuss the tanker, how much the iam  strike is costing boeing every day and how long the strike may last.
for the iam, it’s not that simple and without resolving the list of issues, these elements would become part of a contract.
update, sept. 11: dod buzz: iag does a 16 minute podcast with dod buzz, relating a conversation with us rep. norm dicks (d-boeing) about a possible split buy on the tanker (right at the top of the podcast); and the possibility that northrop might offer a commercial deal to sell 20 kc-30s to the usaf (about 11:45 minutes).
backlog remains solid because traffic remains essentially strong.
categories: boeing  tags:boeing, iam boeing stock down in ilfc issues september 17, 2008 leave a  comment as any aviation advocate knows, the future of international lease finance  corp. is uncertain due to the problems at its parent, aig.
september 14: seattle post-intelligencer: bca president scott carson hopes talks will resume in a “couple of weeks” and a settlement will come shortly thereafter.
plus any additional  appeals of the decision.
the department of defense is expected to notify congress and the companies today.
the taxpayers, if you believe boeing’s assertions  that northrop’s kc-30 is too big, too costly, and will (essentially)  bankrupt the usaf in 40-year life-cycle operating costs.
now reuters reportsthat eads denies the first story.
boeing ought to know;  it also has the maintenance contract on the kc-135 fleet.
our take: we agreed with boeing that six months was  reasonable to do the re-bid, but we don’t know why the analysis could not  have transcended administrations.
rather than hand the next administration an incomplete and possibly contested process, secretary gates decided that the best course of action is to provide the next administration with full flexibility regarding the requirements, evaluation criteria and the appropriate allocation of defense budget to this mission.
we don’t have a figure for airbus, but we believe that most of its backlog is similarly eligible for the european credit agency (eca) financing.
us sen. richard shelby (r-northrop/alabama) writes in an op-ed piece that dod’s decision punting the tanker to the next presidency was nothing more than a sop to boeing.
in boeing’s case, the company has said on several occasions that about 83% of its backlog may be financed by the us export-import bank.
it is my  judgment that in the time remaining to us, we can no longer complete a  competition that would be viewed as fair and objective in this highly charged  environment.
in this respect, the airlines may just decide that the longer a boeing strike  the better.
in the meantime, in what is a reversal of rhetoric by boeing and dod, both  now take the position that the aging kc-135 tankers are good enough to last  while the competition is re-run.
airbus’ sole military program isn’t going too well.
today, the department of defense notified the  congress and the two competing contractors, boeing and northrop grumman, that  it is terminating the current competition for a u.s. air force airborne tanker  replacement.
defense industry daily: a400m delays creating contract controversies.
could the new administration, whether it is mccain or obama, simply pick up  more or less where the bush administration left off?
bell:  doesn’t give a timeline.
the ngc ceo  calls the move “chilling.”
murtha, according to the publication, acknowledged that boeing and dod  don’t like the idea and he didn’t know if northrop does, “but  let me tell you something, we’re not going to have tankers if we  don’t do that, i’m convinced,” inside defense quotes murtha  as saying.
the full house has to approve dicks’ language (likely) and then the  senate has to agree (unlikely).
exim or eca or not, there still have to be viable banks and general market liquidity available for the credit agencies to provide guarantees for the funding.
an australian newspaper reports that virgin blue may seek damages from boeing and the iam over the strike-induced delays of the 777s the airline wants.
some inside boeing told us they believe that this event will help trigger a settlement.
due to uncertain market conditions, a number of aviation deals that are  currently in the works are likely to be renegotiated.
this is another stunning twist in the tanker saga.
reuters: boeing ceo calls iam strike a “standstill.”
a decision by the wto is overdue.
the collapse of the $700 billion bailout of the us financial system is bad news for aviation.
we estimated that  strike-related bca revenue loss was more like $75 million to $83 million a day.
certainly $1.3 billion a month in cash loss is not chicken feed, but it’s also only one-third of the widely quoted figures.
update, 7:00 pm sept. 10: business week reports that eads is pondering a legal  challenge to the dod decision to cancel the competition.
however, even with  a us bailout don’t expect a panacea.
the motley fool takes a whimsical look at the tanker  debacle.
the mediator is staying in touch with each  side, but there’s little for him to do as present.
reuters: boeing ceo calls iam strike a  “standstill.”
“right now, there is no interbank lending and banks are hoarding cash.
(a separate government-funded study took a different view, arguing there was plenty of life left in the airplanes.)
bell reiterates boeing’s best offer to the iam.
rather than hand the next  administration an incomplete and possibly contested process, secretary gates  decided that the best course of action is to provide the next administration  with full flexibility regarding the requirements, evaluation criteria and the  appropriate allocation of defense budget to this mission.
-start by the air force/dod on the competition will probably take anywhere from two-four years before a new contract is awarded.
he has said for years that airbus received “illegal”  subsidies and presumes the wto will back up the ustr complaint.
september 13: forbes: analyst predicts additional 3-6 mo 787 delay before the strike.
furthermore, even if ilfc were to  cancel, other lessors and airlines will snap up these positions, resulting in  no net loss in orders for boeing.
we need to make  sure we have process in place” to outsource work, support our marketing  efforts.
mobile press-register: mccain ‘just doesn’t  get it,’ claims obama.
certainly $1.3 billion a month in cash loss is not chicken feed, but  it’s also only one-third of the widely quoted figures.
each believed that money to finance airplanes was available, albeit more expensive, and that neither would have to step up to provide backstop financing until the second half of next year.
jd crowe at mobile press-register business week: boeing’s ceo beat the pentagon, but  lost some, too.
an iam official predicted at the start of the strike that the iam could bleed boeing of its $10 billion in cash in a matter of a few months.
this will keep pressure on airbus for  the euro-dollar exchange rate and complicates airbus’ decisions over  production for the a350.
this week we discuss the dangers of technology transfers to china, russia and japan by airbus, boeing, bombardier and embraerin our bi-weekly update of our corporate website.
could the new administration, whether it is mccain or obama, simply pick up more or less where the bush administration left off?
but most objective observers, including us, also think the wto will find boeing received “illegal” subsidies as well–something dicks and other boeing supporters in congress seem blind to.
here is an update with more information.
us rep. norm dicks (d-boeing/washington) announced that he’s inserted language in a new house bill to require the usaf or dod to review any adverse ruling from the world trade organization on the “illegal” subsidies complaints filed by the us trade representative and the european union against airbus and boeing.
boeing ought to know; it also has the maintenance contract on the kc-135 fleet.
as of last week, the two sides weren’t even talking about talking.
original posting: we spoke with the iam and boeing and each side is waiting for the other to pick up the phone and ask to talk.
steve trimble at flight international has one of his as-usual insightful blog items.
exim or eca or not, there still have to be viable banks and general market  liquidity available for the credit agencies to provide guarantees for the  funding.
business week: here is their full report.
we’re all  excited by the geared turbo fan but question is whether it will have  reliability to give advances required for a new airplane.
an australian newspaper reports that virgin blue  may seek damages from boeing and the iam over the strike-induced delays of the  777s the airline wants.
update, 9:15 am pdt:
but they are still constructing their stories, and we’re obligated  to me ambiguous at this stage.
737 replacement: we’re looking at the end of the next decade, and  the key is to have technology to get improvements.
the pentagon says northrop is due tens of millions of dollars for the canceled  tanker contract.
secretary gates stated, “over the past seven years the process has become enormously complex and emotional – in no small part because of mistakes and missteps along the way by the department of defense.
we say perhaps the us taxpayer was going to benefit after all from all those “illegal” subsidies alleged to be provided to airbus.
“we’ve always had language in  the contract that gives them the opportunity to bid for work.
it was bound to happen: the tanker is now fully caught up in presidential politics.
politico: tanker delay may help mccain.
boeing cfo james bell told a morgan stanley conference that the dod has canceled the procurement and an entirely new request for proposal process will begin.
based on his information that the monthly cash  cost is about $1.3 billion, this means the daily cash cost is about $43  million.
airbus and boeing  downplayed the declining credit markets (our conversations with them being  about two weeks ago, before things really began to go south).
update, september 23: associated press: dod secretary robert gates says the next  administration should buy the cheapest tanker.
we’re not going  to jump out in front of it until it gets finalized.
by outsourcing work to these countries, aviation’s  big four are creating new competitors.
boeing’s incredibly effective  lobbying campaign certainly won the battle.
join 998 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
update, september 23: associated press: dod secretary robert gates says the next administration should buy the cheapest tanker.