join 1,010 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
a month ago,  market sources said hazy had a letter of intent with airbus for 20 firm and 20  options for the a320, but this was then—what is true now may be different  now that hazy has $3.3 billion to play with.
by the end of september, airbus should have all its engineering reports ready for the board of directors to launch the a320 neo, or new engine option, in the fourth quarter, leahy told a press briefing saturday in advance of the farnborough air show.
you are commenting using your twitter account.
the goal is $10 billion in revenues by 2020, excluding the  tanker.
these are huge markets, developing markets.
“we are in the face of uncertainty because they haven’t made up their minds.
eads is already in the top 10 contractors for  homeland security.
uavs are a major push for boeing, with a goal of  becoming the world’s #1 uav supplier in five years.
“remember, 70% of the claims by the us were rejected.
boeing has already tamped down expectations about order announcements.
“strategically, we have to go where the money is, and the money is  around the globe.
cyber security, another boeing defense priority, is also one for eads.
coming up: fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: you are commenting using your wordpress.com account.
gallois also took issue with boeing’s interpretation of the  wto’s ruling against airbus that it received billions of dollars in  illegal aid.
eads sees ‘fair and open’ process for kc-x tanker competition eads, parent of boeing rival airbus, praised the us defense department for a “fair and open process” in the bitterly competitive $35 billion kc-x air force tanker contest.
“winning the kc-45 will exponentially increase our market position,” o’keefe said.
“i wouldn’t call this any more or less anytime there is a strain on the economy.
steve udvar-hazy, former ceo of mega-lessor international lease finance corp., just announced he has funded his new company, air lease corp., and one of the orders leahy alluded to is expected to come from hazy.
he said boeing announces orders throughout the year rather than holding them for air shows.
airbus received the  orders from 15 customers, but leahy did not predict how many customers will  announce orders at the show.
i think we will have a balanced view when the boeing report is  issued.
boeing supporters in congress, including  washington’s delegation led by sen. patty murray and congressmen norm  dicks and jay inslee, vow to block an award to eads and its kc-45 tanker, which  is based on the airbus a330-200.
eads and boeing are expected to square off next year for a dod contract for  the armed reconnaissance helicopters (arh), another multi-billion dollar  contract.
there are military subsidies (for other boeing airliners).
“we are in an abnormal and unfair situation,” gallois told a  crowd of international journalists saturday in an eads briefing in advance of  the farnborough air show.
boeing defense faces growing competition from eads the boeing co.’s defense, space & security unit—which  comprises about half of boeing’s revenues— faces increased  competition from eads, the european aerospace giant that is parent of airbus.
boeing’s insitu uav subsidiary is headquartered in bingen (wa), on  the columbia river.
“winning the kc-45 will exponentially increase our market  position,” o’keefe said.
boeing has cyber security contracts with homeland security,  the defense department and other us government agencies.
airbus predicts 130 orders at farnborough the ever-ebullient john leahy, coo-customers, airbus, predicted he will end the farnborough air show with double the orders from the first-half of the year.
boeing supporters in congress, including washington’s delegation led by sen. patty murray and congressmen norm dicks and jay inslee, vow to block an award to eads and its kc-45 tanker, which is based on the airbus a330-200.
“we are in an abnormal and unfair situation,” gallois told a crowd of international journalists saturday in an eads briefing in advance of the farnborough air show.
“they wish competition to get the best price and the best product for the air force.
enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
speaking to an international group of journalists saturday in advance of the show, leahy said he bet eads ceo louis gallous that airbus will end the show with double the 131 orders booked through june 30.
the air force is sticking to the fair process.”
boeing has a greater challenge to re-engine the 737 than airbus does with the a320 because the 737 is much closer to the ground to accommodate larger diameter new engines.
the industry, including boeing, is waiting to see what airbus will do and  leahy said the business case is still being built before proceeding with a  recommendation to the board.
eads is already in the top 10 contractors for homeland security.
“i think we have a fair chance to win,” said gallois.
“a  large part of our cost and risk is behind us, and our plane is flying.”
in terms  of our prospects, i am very, very encouraged by the behavior on the part of the  defense department.
we filed reports exclusively for kiro tv (cbs)  in seattle.
notify me of new posts via email.
“there’s always a lot of noise coming out of washington,” said sean o’keefe, ceo of eads north america.
we have a fight in the congress, we know  that.
the goal is $10 billion in revenues by 2020, excluding the tanker.
we have to become more global.”
boeing would make a mistake to come out with a new airplane around 2020, only to be superseded by airbus some five years later, he says.
“we are seeing budget cuts and reduction in forces all across europe,” says zoller.
cyber security is “an exploding market,” says eads ceo louis gallois.
eads north america has $1.2 billion in revenues from the defense department and local governments, providing helicopters, homeland security systems, 911 emergency systems, fixed wing aircraft and ship radar and other national security equipment.
we do have a flying airplane.”
we know of $5 billion (from us sources) for the 787, and more from outside the us.
if airbus goes forward with the a320 neo, entry-into-service would be about 2015.
eads sees ‘fair and open’ process for kc-x tanker  competition eads, parent of boeing rival airbus, praised the us defense department for  a “fair and open process” in the bitterly competitive $35 billion  kc-x air force tanker contest.
“i think the judgment of the pentagon will be fair,” said louis gallois, ceo of eads.
we have put in the very best proposal we can.
these stories are: airbus predicts 130+ orders at the air show; leahy says airbus has to get current programs right before proceding with  decision whether to re-engine the a320 family; decision due in 4th quarter; boeing defense facing growing competition from eads; eads sees “fair and open” competition for kc-x; eads chief raps “unfair” wto.
things have  changed.”
“ the report is now due to be issued in mid-september, postponed from friday (july 16), just before the air show was to begin and before the arrival sunday of the boeing 787, the debut of the airplane outside the us borders.
separately, word leaked from farnborough that boeing will get an order fo  20 777s, but this is a swap from the failing dae capital of dubai.
he said boeing announces orders  throughout the year rather than holding them for air shows.
boeing would make a mistake  to come out with a new airplane around 2020, only to be superseded by airbus  some five years later, he says.
boeing has been weighing whether to re-engine the 737 or proceed directly  to a new one, with an eis about 2020.
we have a fight in the congress, we know that.
russia, japan and china have new airplane industries receiving major government aid, while canada’s bombardier is now selling its cseries that is directly competitive with the airbus a319 and boeing 737-700.
it’s quite clear that european markets will decline or be stable at best.
the industry, including boeing, is waiting to see what airbus will do and leahy said the business case is still being built before proceeding with a recommendation to the board.
we know boeing has  received huge subsidies.
you are commenting using your facebook account.
from the us perspective, the high-profile rivalry is between boeing  commercial airplanes and airbus—even in the highly controversial kc-x  aerial refueling tanker competition for a $35 billion order from the us air  force.
therefore we have to do something  about it.
if airbus goes forward with the a320 neo,  entry-into-service would be about 2015.
airbus predicts 130 orders at farnborough the ever-ebullient john leahy, coo-customers, airbus, predicted he will end  the farnborough air show with double the orders from the first-half of the year.
india, brazil and middle east are increasing budgets.
we know boeing has received huge subsidies.
randy tinseth, boeing’s vp of martketing, told reporters thursday in a  teleconference not to expect many orders.
“ the report is now due to be issued in mid-september, postponed from  friday (july 16), just before the air show was to begin and before the arrival  sunday of the boeing 787, the debut of the airplane outside the us borders.
therefore we have to do something about it.
we are going  to meet all 372 requirements,” o’keefe said.
“there’s always a lot of noise coming out of washington,”  said sean o’keefe, ceo of eads north america.
gallois also took issue with boeing’s interpretation of the wto’s ruling against airbus that it received billions of dollars in illegal aid.
it’s quite clear that european  markets will decline or be stable at best.
join 1,010 other followers get every new post delivered to your inbox.
“i think the judgment of the pentagon will be fair,” said louis  gallois, ceo of eads.
by the end of september, airbus should have all its engineering reports  ready for the board of directors to launch the a320 neo, or new engine option,  in the fourth quarter, leahy told a press briefing saturday in advance of the  farnborough air show.
leahy believes technology for an entirely new airplane won’t be ready until about 2025.
in each of these, eads competes against boeing for new business, and eads is competing in the us for not only the air force tanker but also for us homeland security business.
cyber security is “an exploding market,” says eads ceo louis  gallois.
randy tinseth, boeing’s vp of martketing, told reporters thursday in a teleconference not to expect many orders.
the way the two claims are treated is not preparing the best conditions  for negotiations.”
eads chief raps “unfair” wto louis gallois, ceo of boeing rival eads, complained that a third delay by  the world trade organization (wto) in issuing its interim report on european  complaints about “illegal” subsidies obtained by boeing is  “unfair” and “abnormal.”
the contract is worth $35 billion.
are we to expect a fourth delay?
boeing defense faces growing competition from eads the boeing co.’s defense, space & security unit—which comprises about half of boeing’s revenues— faces increased competition from eads, the european aerospace giant that is parent of airbus.
these stories are below the jump.
“we are in the face of uncertainty because  they haven’t made up their minds.
but eads has the same ambitions in defense as boeing’s defense unit (bds).
we know of $5 billion (from us sources) for the 787,  and more from outside the us.
bombardier cseries update, with expections of new orders; tuesday: eads tanker briefing, with its american flight test crew.
home > air force tanker, airbus, boeing,  bombardier, eads, pratt & whitney > farnborough/sunday-eads farnborough/sunday-eads july 17, 2010 leave a comment go to comments we’re at the farnborough air show and on saturday attended the  day-long eads media briefings.
gallois has previously said these countries must now be included in a new, global agreement regulating subsidies.
i think we will have a balanced view when the boeing report is issued.
“this is the third time the wto decision on boeing has been delayed.
but gallois said other countries must now be included.
uavs are a major push for boeing, with a goal of becoming the world’s #1 uav supplier in five years.
we do  have a flying airplane.”
in terms of our prospects, i am very, very encouraged by the behavior on the part of the defense department.
zoller says that eads  plans to be a major player in a market now dominated by northrop grumman and  california’s global atomics, in competition with boeing.
o’keefe shrugged off the vociferous opposition of murray and dicks as part of the congressional process.
“the gap between the launch of the boeing claim (against airbus) and the airbus claims (against boeing) is increasing.”
we’re at the farnborough air show and on saturday attended the day-long eads media briefings.
but eads has the same ambitions in defense as boeing’s defense  unit (bds).
things have changed.”
airbus received the orders from 15 customers, but leahy did not predict how many customers will announce orders at the show.
boeing’s insitu uav subsidiary is headquartered in bingen (wa), on the columbia river.
alas,  the airplane won’t be here; throughout: various oem meetings and briefings.
from the us perspective, the high-profile rivalry is between boeing commercial airplanes and airbus—even in the highly controversial kc-x aerial refueling tanker competition for a $35 billion order from the us air force.
bds identifies unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs), cyber security, homeland security in the us and for other countries as key growth areas.
we filed reports exclusively for kiro tv (cbs) in seattle.
boeing, eads and other defense companies are competing for shrinking defense dollars in europe and america and expanding budgets in emerging markets.
“we are seeing budget cuts and reduction in forces all across  europe,” says zoller.
“the gap between the launch of the boeing claim (against airbus) and  the airbus claims (against boeing) is increasing.”
“it seems we are not reading the same report.”
boeing has been weighing whether to re-engine the 737 or proceed directly to a new one, with an eis about 2020.
these  are huge markets, developing markets.
“this is the third time the wto decision on  boeing has been delayed.
o’keefe shrugged off the vociferous opposition of murray and dicks as  part of the congressional process.
“strategically, we have to go where the money is, and the money is around the globe.
eads chief raps “unfair” wto louis gallois, ceo of boeing rival eads, complained that a third delay by the world trade organization (wto) in issuing its interim report on european complaints about “illegal” subsidies obtained by boeing is “unfair” and “abnormal.”
stefan zoller, ceo of the eads defence & security subsidiary, oversees  military air systems, defence electronics, defence and communications systems  and missiles business units.
cancel connecting to %s notify me of follow-up comments via email.
gallois made the remarks at its annual media day, immediately preceding the  farnborough air show.
these stories are: these stories are below the jump.
there are military subsidies (for other boeing  airliners).
zoller says that eads plans to be a major player in a market now dominated by northrop grumman and california’s global atomics, in competition with boeing.
russia, japan and china have new airplane industries receiving  major government aid, while canada’s bombardier is now selling its  cseries that is directly competitive with the airbus a319 and boeing 737-700.
steve udvar-hazy, former ceo of mega-lessor international lease finance  corp., just announced he has funded his new company, air lease corp., and one  of the orders leahy alluded to is expected to come from hazy.
we are going to meet all 372 requirements,” o’keefe said.
the european union has repeatedly called for talks between the governments to recast the entire process of permissible government support, historically a european-us issue.
coming up: monday: the boeing and airbus commercial briefings; monday: the boeing kc-767 briefing; monday:
gallois has previously said these countries must now be included in a new,  global agreement regulating subsidies.
“a large part of our cost and risk is behind us, and our plane is flying.”
the way the two claims are treated is not preparing the best conditions for negotiations.”
“the way this is set up, the subjective is discouraged.
“this will not be just europe and the united states.
boeing has a greater challenge to re-engine the 737 than airbus does with  the a320 because the 737 is much closer to the ground to accommodate larger  diameter new engines.
“i wouldn’t  call this any more or less anytime there is a strain on the economy.
in each of these, eads competes against boeing for new business, and eads  is competing in the us for not only the air force tanker but also for us  homeland security business.
let’s get existing programs right before new a320 model: airbus airbus needs to get its current, troubled airplane programs right to free up resources before it proceeds with a re-engine program for the a320 family, says john leahy, chief operating officer for customers.
let’s get existing programs right before new a320 model:  airbus airbus needs to get its current, troubled airplane programs right to free  up resources before it proceeds with a re-engine program for the a320 family,  says john leahy, chief operating officer for customers.
leahy believes technology for an entirely  new airplane won’t be ready until about 2025.
a month ago, market sources said hazy had a letter of intent with airbus for 20 firm and 20 options for the a320, but this was then—what is true now may be different now that hazy has $3.3 billion to play with.
“they wish competition to get the best price and  the best product for the air force.
speaking to an international group of journalists saturday in advance of  the show, leahy said he bet eads ceo louis gallous that airbus will end the  show with double the 131 orders booked through june 30.
separately, word leaked from farnborough that boeing will get an order fo 20 777s, but this is a swap from the failing dae capital of dubai.
bds identifies unmanned aerial vehicles (uavs), cyber security, homeland  security in the us and for other countries as key growth areas.
they did exactly what was expected…to have a fair and open competition.
eads north america has $1.2 billion in revenues from the defense department  and local governments, providing helicopters, homeland security systems, 911  emergency systems, fixed wing aircraft and ship radar and other national  security equipment.
stefan zoller, ceo of the eads defence & security subsidiary, oversees military air systems, defence electronics, defence and communications systems and missiles business units.
boeing has cyber security contracts with homeland security, the defense department and other us government agencies.
eads and boeing are expected to square off next year for a dod contract for the armed reconnaissance helicopters (arh), another multi-billion dollar contract.
gallois made the remarks at its annual media day, immediately preceding the farnborough air show.
the european union has repeatedly called for talks between the governments  to recast the entire process of permissible government support, historically a  european-us issue.
“we believe we will have significant orders to announce from leasing  companies over the next week,” leahy said.
boeing, eads  and other defense companies are competing for shrinking defense dollars in  europe and america and expanding budgets in emerging markets.
they did exactly what was expected…to have a fair  and open competition.
“we believe we will have significant orders to announce from leasing companies over the next week,” leahy said.