- columnists - travel - news & tips - weather - chicago travel - midwest travel - u.s. travel - international travel - family travel - cruises - vacation starter - deals - health - booster shots - dental - diabetes - fitness - healthy heart - local news - nutrition - sex & dating - green living - julie's health club - cancer central - opinion - editorials - commentary - letters - endorsements - share - change of subject - page's page - minority of one - stantis cartoons - columns - blogs - real estate - for sale - apartments - buyers - sellers - communities - foreclosure - home & garden - latest sales - luxury - news - advertise - cars - cars for sale - 2012 chicago auto show - auto news - car care - car reviews - dealer specials - recalls - traffic - advertise - jobs - my careerbuilder - find jobs - job recommendations - post resumes - resources - for employers - advertise - trib careers - shopping - weekly sales ads - local dailies - my brands - from our experts - shopping events - neighborhoods - i'm shopping for ... advanced search advanced search x - include all of these words: - include any of these words: - include this exact phrase: - exclude: - select a date range this week past 30 days past 3 months past year - create a custom date range from:
george hobica is founder of the  low-airfare listing site airfarewatchdog.com.
to: - loading home > travel ask airfarewatchdog.com: what to do about 'free' frequent flyer miles?
have a question about  air travel?
travel - home - mobile - alerts - trib nation - tribu - weather - obits - horoscopes - ask amy - columns - photos - video - advertise - subscribe - help - news - breaking - chicagoland - suburbs - nation & world - elections - clout street - obits - watchdog - maps & apps - schools - religion - lottery - business - breaking - problem solver - your money - technology - chicago top stocks - promotions - executives to know - business lunches - columnists - sports - breaking - bears - bulls - blackhawks - cubs - white sox - college - preps plus - soccer - golf - smack - scores - columnists - a&e - breaking - tv - movies - music - theater - food & dining - books - celebrity - events - arts - comics - puzzles - chicago live!
even people with healthylungs find it intolerable some days.
but if you insist on visiting china, i would fly on an airline with clearly stated rules on traveling with a portable oxygen concentrator, such as united or singapore airlines.
if your wife  has respiratory problems, i would seriously reconsider a trip tochina's major  cities.
by george hobica, airfarewatchdog.com (mct) 7:44 a.m.
should we book a package deal or travel independently?
if your wife has respiratory problems, i would seriously reconsider a trip tochina's major cities.
——— george hobica is founder of the low-airfare listing site airfarewatchdog.com.
but if you insist on visiting china, i would fly on an airline with clearly  stated rules on traveling with a portable oxygen concentrator, such as united or singapore airlines.
sign up for singapore airline's frequent flyer program (kris flyer) to get first dibs on special promotions, which are often sent to members before they general public.
it's not you it's ...
vacation home rentals new buffalo, michigan cabo san lucas, mexico powered by homeaway.com >>
sign up for  singapore airline's frequent flyer program (kris flyer) to get first dibs on  special promotions, which are often sent to members before they general public.
for a first visit to asia, i'd follow their lead and visit singapore instead.
should we book a package deal  or travel independently?
when to put yourself on the 'no fly' list q: my wife and i are contemplating a trip to china (beijing, shanghai, and hong kong) and are wondering when is the best time to travel there and to buy airfares.
is there are website that has the cheapest fares?
vs-travel-airfarewatchdog-frequent-flier-20120220 comments (0) add comments | discussion faq
currently there are no comments.
and wherever you decide to go, definitely look into package deals since they  often save money over buying hotel, airfare and tours a la carte.
a: let me address your last question first.
also, my wife has  respiratory problems and has to fly with a portable oxygen concentrator so  we're wondering what the airline policies are about bringing oxygen on board  the plane.
friends of mine who moved to beijing for work with their two small children quickly asked for a relocation tosingapore when they discovered how bad the air quality was in china.
this article spells out united's policies: http://www.united.com/page/article/0,6867,53066,00.html and here are singapore's http://www.singaporeair.com/jsp/cms/en(underscore)uk/travel(underscore)information/poc.jsp .
accredited business - chicago tribune, 435 n. michigan ave., chicago, il 60611 -
this would be our first trip toasia.
i realize you can't predict airline business practices, but just wondering if you've heard of a similar situation.
see more stories » x simple precautions to help travelers stay healthy big debut for  air france's airbus a380 photos:
and wherever you decide to go, definitely look into package deals since they often save money over buying hotel, airfare and tours a la carte.
vs-travel-airfarewatchdog-frequent-flier-20120220
send it toask@airfarewatchdog.com.
have a question about air travel?
questions can only be answered  in this column and not individually.
due to industrial expansion and other factors, the air quality is horrendous.
it's probable that you weren't the only one who got a little holiday "gift" in this software snafu.
questions can only be answered in this column and not individually.
as anyone can figure out, this was some kind of computer glitch.
this article spells out united's policies:  http://www.united.com/page/article/0,6867,53066,00.html and here are singapore's http://www.singaporeair.com/jsp/cms/en(underscore)uk/travel(underscore)information/poc.jsp .
what's the best airline to use?
(singapore is fast becoming the tourist hub of asia,  with excellent hotels, infrastructure, attractions — it even has casinos  and a universal studios theme park now — excellent shopping and cuisine.)
chicagonow a priest gives obama's policies a finger, not "the" finger goodbye, american idol:
lo and behold, on my january frequent flyer statement i was awarded full frequent flyer miles on the free flight (about 6,000 miles).
featured video - powerful quake shakes taiwan - countdown to the oscars - la chase ends in dramatic gas station shooting
of course, you could bring this to the airline's attention if you want to be an honest abe.
well, it's partly you - services - reader panel - subscribe - manage subscription - subscription payment - chicagopoints - mobile - newsletters/alerts - digital edition - reprints - today's paper - rss - news in education - faq - connect - facebook - twitter - editorial contacts - work for us - company contacts - send news tips
be the first to comment!
i'd say the worst that could happen is the airline will deduct the miles from your account at some future date if they discover the error, but more likely they'll just let it go.
cst, february 20, 2012 q: for obvious reasons, i am not going to tell you the name of the airline, and probably shouldn't even be asking this question in a public forum, but here goes: last december, i cashed in some miles to obtain a frequent flyer award ticket.
with airlines merging and changing their frequent flyer programs, websites, and computer systems, mistakes are bound to occur.
in case you missed it ... oscars: top nominees video gallery
when to put yourself on the 'no fly' list q: my wife and i are contemplating a trip to  china (beijing, shanghai, and hong kong) and are wondering when is the best  time to travel there and to buy airfares.
my question: if i "spend" those miles on a future trip, will the airline discover their error and come back to me and charge me for the flight i used them on?
boeing 787 dreamliner takes flight how to pick  the best airline: what you need to know chris elliott -- the travel  troubleshooter 7 tips for looking your best after a long flight too sick to  fly?
friends of mine who moved to beijing for work with their two small children  quickly asked for a relocation tosingapore when they discovered how bad the air  quality was in china.
——— - related - pictures: the nation's best and worst airports - 10 tips for preventing stolen luggage - these items won't fly - luggage tips - packing tips - see more stories » - x simple precautions to help travelers stay healthy big debut for air france's airbus a380 photos:
a: as you probably know, this is a highly unusual situation.
- comments/feedback - tribune events - corrections - solutions - buy an ad - advertising solutions - special ad sections - online marketing - social-media contests - classified - announcements - apartments - cars for sale - commercial real estate - garage sales - help wanted - homes for sale - mortgages - obituaries - pets for sale - public records - shop - weekly sales ads - coupons - fan shop - wine club - riviera tours - tribune store - photo store - archives - photos - video - events/listings - columns - readers share - blogs - maps & apps - topic galleries a tribune newspaper website - - terms of service - privacy policy - about our ads - bbb a+
the 20 most memorable oscars gowns top deals from the sunday tribune ads super cute looks from chicago's clubs as seen on tv items worth trying >>
also, my wife has respiratory problems and has to fly with a portable oxygen concentrator so we're wondering what the airline policies are about bringing oxygen on board the plane.
for a first visit to asia, i'd follow their lead and  visit singapore instead.
(singapore is fast becoming the tourist hub of asia, with excellent hotels, infrastructure, attractions — it even has casinos and a universal studios theme park now — excellent shopping and cuisine.)
due to industrial expansion and other factors, the air quality is  horrendous.
boeing 787 dreamliner takes flight how to pick the best airline: what you need to know chris elliott -- the travel troubleshooter 7 tips for looking your best after a long flight too sick to fly?