production couldn’t keep up, and serious problems resulted.
even more amazing, when carolyn got promoted to owning all of commercial continuing production (i.e., everything but the 787), she'd built an organization and culture that's since taken 737 fa to over 100 turns.
advanced search shopping cart on crcpress.com
leveling demand at boeing i was intrigued by an article in the new york times this week describing how boeing is actually turning away orders, even from some of its best customers.
in  effect, boeing is seeking to level demand.
- ► march (4) - what is applied concept mapping?
however, selling planes is very  different from selling cars, with longer lead times, hugely expensive products  (and correspondingly huge orders), and a global marketplace that can suddenly  change in a radical way (as it did after 9/11).
leveling  demand and building partnerships with customers are certainly elements of a  lean strategy, and i’m inclined to commend boeing for its approach.
major assemblies, including parts of the fuselage and wings, are built by suppliers in a variety of countries and shipped (in 747s) to everett , washington .
faqs skip to main   |skip to sidebar lean insider a blog of news, research and trends on all things lean 11.29.2006
keep in mind that planes being ordered now won’t be delivered for several years.
but  current boeing executives remember how the company was hot not quite a decade  ago.
my account ( login / register )
productivity press, a division of taylor and francis, an informa business
it’s quite a sight; if you’re  ever in that area, make it a point to go.
now  i’ve never heard of  toyota  declining an order from a customer.
however, selling planes is very different from selling cars, with longer lead times, hugely expensive products (and correspondingly huge orders), and a global marketplace that can suddenly change in a radical way (as it did after 9/11).
major assemblies,  including parts of the fuselage and wings, are built by suppliers in a variety  of countries and shipped (in 747s) to  everett ,  washington .
perhaps  boeing has learned more about lean than the  u.s.  automakers.
while outsourcing - ▼ 2006 (46) - ▼ november (12) - leveling demand at boeing - the greening of lean - a lean thanksgiving - lean networking - the lack of lean partnerships - lean, productivity and government statistics - building public support for lean - the grim automotive industry outlook - lean jobs – the war for talent is back - lean hurricane relief - the necessity of lean culture - you need a lean china strategy other lean blogs - a3 thinking blog - agile manufacturing update - be excellent - evolving excellence - fashion incubator - gempa panta rei - got boondoggle?
by: morrowjeff final assembly of the 737 went from 4 inventory turns in 1995 to 50 (!)
in effect, boeing is seeking to level demand.
- process capability and discrimination ratios - what about standardized work?
orders for boeing’s extremely popular 737 and the new 787 are pouring in.
it’s quite a sight; if you’re ever in that area, make it a point to go.
it's also possible that ford might be better off with carolyn instead of alan.
- to be, or not to be... a project manager - not only achieving the excellence, but sustaining ... - ► october (2) - toyota benchmarked...
many of today’s executives used to work for people who lost their jobs because of what happened.
but that doesn’t mean boeing has done anything wrong.
and if i read the story correctly, it is trying to do so not in a high-handed or arbitrary way, but by communicating with customers so they will understand and accept what the company is doing.
many of  today’s executives used to work for people who lost their jobs because of  what happened.
leveling demand and building partnerships with customers are certainly elements of a lean strategy, and i’m inclined to commend boeing for its approach.
that may not be  lean, but it certainly spreads risk on to suppliers.
for example, southwest airlines, a very good customer, wanted to add two planes to an existing order for 737s, and boeing said no (though it did make southwest aware of two nearly-new planes that could be purchased elsewhere).
the times article also noted that, in contrast to its practices years ago, boeing now does little more than design and final assembly.
leveling demand at boeing i was intrigued by an article in the new york times this week describing  how boeing is actually turning away orders, even from some of its best  customers.
now i’ve never heard of toyota declining an order from a customer.
- improve with me - lean blog - lean jobs blog - lean reflections - lean tool & die making - leanconnections - learn sigma - learning about lean - shmula - tpm log - twi blog other interesting sites - adam zak executive search - frank patrick's focused performance weblog - gem - green enterprise movement - herding cats - leadership & business
orders for  boeing’s extremely popular 737 and the new 787 are pouring in.
for example,  southwest airlines, a very good customer, wanted to add two planes to an  existing order for 737s, and boeing said no (though it did make southwest aware  of two nearly-new planes that could be purchased elsewhere).
- spend analysis -- what makes a part "right"?
re: leveling demand at boeing
so today, boeing is taking only the work it is sure it can handle.
and if i read the story correctly,  it is trying to do so not in a high-handed or arbitrary way, but by  communicating with customers so they will understand and accept what the  company is doing.
boeing is hot right now, partly because of troubles at airbus.
- ► february (4) - misguided pragmatism and its impact on lean - lean for the public sector - receiving effective feedback - the 2011 lean and six sigma conference - ► january (2) - mark graban's "lean for haiti" - barnes-jewish hospital (st. louis) and its lean re... - ► 2010 (74) - ► december (2) - porsche gets its speed from toyota - lean labor management - ► november (2) - the a3 problem-solving process - lean and human resources - ► october (4) - the improvement "trap" - true cost versus piece price in the supply chain - is target cost management important?
true,  toyota  is probably  better at predicting demand than boeing.
perhaps boeing has learned more about lean than the u.s. automakers.
at that time, the company accepted every order coming in the door.
- ► september (3) - the supply chain executive?
- ► november (3) - what are we learning from our projects?
one last  note: early this year i went on a public tour of the boeing facility in  everett  (which, they boast, is the largest building in the world by volume, according  to the guinness book of records).
yet again - "made in the usa" --
- is it overfed yet undernourished? - lean office?
but current boeing executives remember how the company was hot not quite a decade ago.
who needs a trainer? - ► may (2) - the virginia mason medical center discovers its tr... - creating productive conversations among conflictin... - ► april (3) - does lean help the smaller companies?
posted by ralph bernstein  at 3:30 pm
- reforming project management - shopflor.org - six sigma and process excellence iq - stiles associates - supply chain network - wait time & delayed care copyright 2008
- december 10, 2007 9:04 am post a comment newer post older post home subscribe to: post comments (atom) about the authors michael sinocchi ralph bernstein new from productivity press!
but that  doesn’t mean boeing has done anything wrong.
so  today, boeing is taking only the work it is sure it can handle.
faqs skip to main |skip to sidebar lean insider a blog of news, research and trends on all things lean 11.29.2006
this article subscribe via email enter your email address: delivered by feedburner productivity press's fan box productivity press on facebook blog archive - ► 2012 (4) - ► february (1) - ge goes lean
true, toyota is probably better at predicting demand than boeing.
you don't get to 100 turns with badly leveled demand.
- what toyota team members have to say - what happens when two automakers cross paths at an... - ► august (2) - mapping the process -- finding the waste - are team conflicts often part of the process in le... - ► july (3) - green in a globalized world - lean and the smaller companies - perceived quality and market share - ► june (2) - safety and sustainability are not barriers to busi... - the twi programs --
my account ( login /  register )
mcnerney grasps this.
posted by ralph bernstein at 3:30 pm 1 comments: - ralph bernstein said... - imported 12/7/2006 1:36:11 pm
boeing  is hot right now, partly because of troubles at airbus.
- lean doing and lean thinking - ► september (2) - redeveloping product development at volvo - lean culture in a pharmaceutical company - ► august (4) - the wall street journal and "the drawbacks of lean... - the lean plateau - so lean, what have you done for new hampshire late... - lean as a political platform - ► july (5) - staying lean (and beautiful)
hiring of alan mulally of boeing to be ford’s ceo increasingly looks like the right move.
keep in mind that  planes being ordered now won’t be delivered for several years.
home about us contact us
the  times article also noted that, in contrast to its practices years ago, boeing  now does little more than design and final assembly.
by 2005, largely to the credit of carolyn corvi's leadership and shingijutsu's consulting.
one last note: early this year i went on a public tour of the boeing facility in everett (which, they boast, is the largest building in the world by volume, according to the guinness book of records).
hiring of alan mulally of boeing to be ford’s ceo increasingly looks like  the right move.
that may not be lean, but it certainly spreads risk on to suppliers.
in louisville - ► january (3) - the denver health & hospital authority -- the resu... - lean and agile software development: how do we mak... - the visual author - ► 2011 (31) - ► december (1) - "lean versus mrp" or "lean and mrp"?