what is also useful is that boeing includes in the illustration the existing and planned fan diameters for the 737-800, the a320 and their successor airplanes.
randy tinseth, vp market, showed this slide (click on the slide to  enlarge), the first time we’ve seen one like it.
cost is $1.2bn for all outstanding orders (including  those existing before today).
the gtf enters service on neo in  2015 and the neo cfm leap engine enters service a year later.
archive for the ‘cfm’ category republic’s bryan bedford emulates u-turn al march 15, 2012  9 comments the ceo of republic airways holdings seems to be vying to be  america’s version of u-turn al, akbar al-baker, the ceo of qatar airways.
the beauty of it: from randy tinseth’s blog, here is a photo that is just a beauty, from the dubai air show:categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier, cfm tags: 737, 787, a319, a321, a380, air france, air india, airbus, american airlines, atr, atr turboprops, boeing, bombardier, cfm, cfm56, flight global, gtf, international aero engines, leap, lufthansa, q400, rolls-royce, v2500 enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
plane works better at chicago midway airport, among other issues.
aviation week has an article that provides some other interesting information about the leases for the airbuses.
it has  arranged trade missions from europe, asia and latin america visiting here to  meet with washington state suppliers.
boeingheld a tele-conference november 4, but it could only be characterized as a high-level look at the program.
read more… categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier, cfm, cseries, embraer, pratt & whitney tags: 737-700, 747-8f, 787, a319, a319neo, a320neo, a350, airbus, boeing, bombardier, bryan bedford, cargolux, cfm, cseries, e-190,  e-195, embraer, gtf, leap, pratt & whitney, qatar airways, republic airways, u-turn al pw gtf-cfm leap market share february 15, 2012 13 comments airinsight has an interesting analysis of the market share of the gtf vs  the leap on the a320neo family.
initially  said the order would stand.
the symposium is the first of its kind: a day-long event focused on  forecasting the requirements in the supply chain that services boeing, other  oems and the tier 1 suppliers.
brian hirshman, svp technical operations, told flightglobal pro on 15  december that the carrier is up-gauging its fleet, which it began doing this  year with acquisition of the 737-800 for the first time.
we have  tremendous amount of confidence in our technology and at the end of the day it  will be the most economical.
pw’s buyout of the rolls-royce share of iae certainly gives pw the ability to do a “global” deal involving v2500 and gtf engines, something cfm has been able to do for cfm56 and leap engines from inception.
cfm, of course, is the sole-source engine provider on the boeing 737 and  has about half the market share on the airbus a320 family.
the gtf enters service on neo in 2015 and the neo cfm leap engine enters service a year later.
pnaa serves washington, oregon, idaho, montana, alberta and british columbia.
aviation week has an article that provides some other interesting  information about the leases for the airbuses.
read more… categories: cfm tags: 737, a320, airbus, boeing, cfm, safran norwegian air splits order with airbus, boeing january 25, 2012  39 comments in a surprise, norwegian air shuttle split a large order between airbus and  boeing for a320 and 737 families.
for an airline of air france’s credit, lease rates are typically on  the 0.80% range and sometimes as low as 0.72%.
but the iae v2500 is viewed as the better engine for the larger a321–more thrust and lower fuel burn–and american follows lufthansa airlines in splitting the engines for the smaller and larger airbus family.
separately, we’ve been provided some diagrams by cfm for publication  about the leap and how its architecture and technology benefit from the ge90  and genx.
here are highlights: gary kelly, ceo jim albaugh, ceo of bca.
there are nearly 17,000 cfm 56  engines in service today, mostly what bernstein calls the second generation.
this one day event on march 12 precedes the first usa-basedaerospace & defense supplier summit organized by bci aerospace.
cfm has likewise declined interview requests (three since august, when max was launched).
we will make sure we get southwest what it wants.
but our source has direct  knowledge of the program.
thus, the neo family competition provides a better snapshot of how the two engines stack up in the view of customers.
the family deal with gecas and the rescue package for republic account for 280 of the 533 leap engines ordered to-date.
have 150 options to expand as well.
our source compared the requirement to reduce the fan size of the 737 leap  from 78 inches on the airbus a320 neo to 68 1/2 inches on the max to the fan  reduction on the genx from the 787 to the 747-8.
mike van der ven, coo.
these are some of the key ways cfm is optimizing leap for max.categories:airbus, boeing, cfm tags: 737 max, a320neo, airbus, boeing, cfm, cfm leap
our source compared the requirement to reduce the fan size of the 737 leap from 78 inches on the airbus a320 neo to 68 1/2 inches on the max to the fan reduction on the genx from the 787 to the 747-8.
717s in leases 2017-2020+ and will work to see what the alternatives are  but will operate through lease terms if we have to.
a couple of points of note for the airinsight analysis: gecas buys only ge  engines, so pw had no chance in this exclusive-supplier scenario; and  republic’s cfm selection was part of a financial rescue package involving  gecas (which leases a319s and a320s with cfm engines to republic subsidiary  frontier airlines) and cfm (which restructured cfm maintenance agreements).we  detailed the republic order at the time.
information may be  foundhere.
boeing commercial airplanes and boeing defense,  space & security will be presenters as well as two noted aerospace analysts  from wall street, david strauss of ubs and robert spingarn of credit suisse.
this was completed while the singapore air show was underway and orders still being announced.
the southwest airlines order on 13 december launching the 737 max programme  is a launch of the -8 version.
when max was announced, boeing claimed, “the airplane’s fuel  burn is expected to be 16 percent lower than our competitor’s current  offering and 4 percent lower than their future offering” and “it  will have the lowest operating costs in the single-aisle segment with a 7  percent advantage over the competition.”
16-18% fuel burn improvement over 737 classics.
more recently, he appears to be doing everything to cast a shadow over the program.
as fully expected, airbus said its planes are better than boeing and boeing said its planes are better than airbus.
this eliminations allow the leap to be shorter, which also allows the  engine mounting to be shorter.
airbus, boeing, bombardier, cfm, pratt & whitney, the teal  group’s richard aboulafia, g2 global solutions’ michel merluzeau,  alcoa and electroimpact are among the presenters on the commercial side.
southwest, throughout  its history since is 1971 birth, has relied on the 737-200/300/500/700,  preferring smaller sized aircraft and high frequency as its business model.
this represents the third all-boeing customer airbus has won for its neo.
southwest, throughout its history since is 1971 birth, has relied on the 737-200/300/500/700, preferring smaller sized aircraft and high frequency as its business model.
for an airline of air france’s credit, lease rates are typically on the 0.80% range and sometimes as low as 0.72%.
a recent report by bernstein research takes an in-depth look at safran, the french company that is the parent of snecma, a joint venture partner with ge to form cfm international.
in addition to the airbus position, it should also be noted  that at least one airline analysis of the max vs neo concludes that max will  only be around 2% better than neo, not the 7%-8% lower operating costs claimed  by boeing.
but boeing revealed a little bit more detail on the 737 max vs the a320 neo that suggests their analysis gives another percentage point advantage than was originally announced last august.
airplanes still being defined.
[video shows max will winglets, not the oft-speculated raked wingtips.]
john hamilton, boeing 737 chief engineer.
engine selection for later deliveries remains open.
what is also useful is that boeing includes in the illustration the  existing and planned fan diameters for the 737-800, the a320 and their  successor airplanes.
categories:  airbus, boeing, cfm, pratt & whitney tags: 737max, 737ng, a320neo, airbus,  boeing, cfm, gtf, leap, pratt & whitney pnaa conference in seattle feb. 6-8 january 3, 2012 leave a  comment the pacific northwest aerospace alliance is hosting two conferences in the  seattle area in february and march.
pw shares the engine supply position on the irkut ms21 with a russian powerplant.
the airbus order is only for the neo and 737
bedford praised the cseries when ordering it but has become increasingly skeptical of the program once he ordered the a319neo (with cfm leap engines) in what was a financial bailout of his ailing company being dragged down by frontier airlines.
categories: airbus, boeing, cfm tags:  737 max, boeing, cfm, ge engines, southwest odds and ends: a380 cost, american’s engine order, ‘war  on boeing’ november 22, 2011 36 comments a380 cost: flight global reports that air france–a  launch customer of the airbus a380–just concluded a lease deal for one of  the giant airplanes for a rental of $1.8m per month.
this is the first definitive agreement we signed.
pratt & whitney: does the american deal mean pw has a  good change of placing the gtf on the a320neo order by american?
[with southwest getting only 4 airplanes in 2017, this suggests a late  2017 eis.--editor] 948 commitments now, projects 1,400-1,500 by the end of next year.
the slide shows the  improved fuel burn minus the negative impact of additional weight and drag to  come up with net figures.
we covered theairbus detail following istat’s european conference in barcelona.
this one day event on march 12 precedes the first usa-basedaerospace &  defense supplier summit organized by bci aerospace.
(from  press release.)
max would have to fly the same mission as ng and are satisfied it would do  that.
the symposium is the first of its kind: a day-long event focused on forecasting the requirements in the supply chain that services boeing, other oems and the tier 1 suppliers.
bernstein’s report illustrates what we have occasionally written: the  importance of after-market parts sales and mro (maintenance, repair and  overhaul) is to the engine market.
this was completed while the singapore air show  was underway and orders still being announced.
we wanted as much commonality as we can.
christmas came early to southwest.
i don’t have the real thing
the analysis only covers the neo family, where there is competition between  cfm international and pratt & whitney.
pw’s  buyout of the rolls-royce share of iae certainly gives pw the ability to do a  “global” deal involving v2500 and gtf engines, something cfm has  been able to do for cfm56 and leap engines from inception.
the ceo of republic airways holdings seems to be vying to be america’s version of u-turn al, akbar al-baker, the ceo of qatar airways.
this report is  the result of months of talking with customers and sources within boeing and  cfm; and from public appearances by boeing and cfm.
join 999 other followers get every new post delivered to your inbox.
the airplane is fairly well defined.
airport performance was important, especially at key airports.
boeing’s insitu eads north america and lockheed martin are among the defense industry presenters.
reducing the fan enables cfm to eliminate some lpt stages, our source explains, which also cuts other parts.
given  american’s large cfm-powered boeing 737 fleet, some might think cfm  should have won the entire engine deal.
coo mike van der ven led effort.
it has arranged trade missions from europe, asia and latin america visiting here to meet with washington state suppliers.
they follow boeing and the supply chain and have their views on forecasting the needs of the suppliers.
it was announced monday aa split its engine order between cfm (for the airbus a319) and iae (for the a321).
jim albaugh, ceo of bca.
pnaa’s 11th annual conference is feb. 6-7-8 at the lynnwood (wa)  convention center, north of seattle and south of everett.
the airbus order raised questions whether bedford would cancel the cseries since the a319neo competes with the cs300.
in the january 17 note, bernstein looks at the after-market engine business of safran, which is dominated by the cfm56.
the carrier, which has substitution rights between the -7 and the -8, has chosen to bypass the -7 for now.
the family deal with gecas and the rescue  package for republic account for 280 of the 533 leap engines ordered to-date.
brian hirshman, svp technology, wn john hamilton, boeing 737 chief engineer.
engine  selection for later deliveries remains open.
in the lawsuit between pratt & whitney and rolls-royce over  patent claims for the engines powering the airbus a380, court documents  revealed discounts as steep at 80% or more.
categories: airbus,  boeing, bombardier, cfm, eads, embraer tags: airbus, boeing, bombardier, cfm,  embraer, pacific northwest aerospace alliance, pnaa, pratt & whitney southwest launches 737-8, bypasses 737-7 for now december 16,  2011 15 comments here is an article we did yesterday for flightglobal pro’s  subscription service.
we think boeing is merely getting mugged in the process  and that this is not a “war on boeing.”
more than 300 people attended the 2011 conference, which is now the largest  in the pacific northwest and one of the largest on the west coast.
pnaa’s 11th annual conference is feb. 6-7-8 at the lynnwood (wa) convention center, north of seattle and south of everett.
turboprops are slowly regaining favor in some quarters.
details are still sketchy and hard to come by.
as we’ve previously noted, it is not unknown for engine makers to deeply discount engine prices even more than the airframers discount their airplanes.
we have seen tremendous advances with technology.
southwest is a special customer and we have a special relationship.
we’ve been trying for months (since last june, in fact) to follow up their briefing in advance of the paris air show and boeing has been declining all interview requests on max.
these illustrations are below the jump.
bedford praised the cseries when ordering it but has become increasingly  skeptical of the program once he ordered the a319neo (with cfm leap engines) in  what was a financial bailout of his ailing company being dragged down by  frontier airlines.
given american’s large cfm-powered boeing 737 fleet, some might think cfm should have won the entire engine deal.
max will have capability to have increased payload-range vs ng.
order is a mix of max and ngs.
this debate revolves in part because neither  boeing or cfm have been forthcoming about details how the cfm leap engine is  being optimized for max.
comments southwest airlines held a web press conference (with written question  submissions the staff can screen in advance–bad idea) on its new 737 max  order.
we also wrote this piece about how the ge powerhouse combines to win deals.
this supports our financial strategy.
categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier, cfm, eads, embraer tags: airbus, boeing, bombardier, cfm, embraer, pacific northwest aerospace alliance, pnaa, pratt & whitney here is an article we did yesterday for flightglobal pro’s subscription service.
southwest will get  airplane #1 when it rolls off the line in renton.
both companies have left the marketplace in a fog.
the airbus order is only for the neo and 737 order is a mix of max and ngs.
cfm is exclusive on the boeing 737  and comac c919 and pw is exclusive on the mitsubishi mrj and the bombardier  cseries.
commonality major point.
we are very much in need of new technology to reduce the  fuel burn and reduce environmental impact.
bedford initially said the order would stand.
here are highlights: gary kelly, ceo only four 737 max delivered in 2017.
one of the main challenges we face  are high fuel costs.
read more… categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier, cfm, cseries, pratt & whitney tags: 737 max, 737ng, a320neo, airbus, boeing, bombardier,  cfm leap, cseries, pratt & whitney gtf southwest press conference on 737 max order december 13, 2011 41
the analysis only covers the neo family, where there is competition between cfm international and pratt & whitney.
this is largest order in boeing’s history.
bedford appears to be engaged in a campaign to raise questions about the  bombardier cseries, for which he has orders and options for 80 cs300s, much the  same way u-turn al alternatively praises then complains about the airbus a350,  boeing 747-8f (ordered by cargolux, in which qatar owns a third) and the boeing  787.
now pw can wheel and deal all it wants.
as fully expected, airbus said its planes are better than boeing and boeing  said its planes are better than airbus.
boeing commercial airplanes and boeing defense, space & security will be presenters as well as two noted aerospace analysts from wall street, david strauss of ubs and robert spingarn of credit suisse.
these are two important events sponsored by pnaa and the a&dss summit by bci aerospace is equally important to the washington aerospace supply chain.
the airbus order raised questions whether bedford would  cancel the cseries since the a319neo competes with the cs300.
kevin mcallister, vp sales and marketing for ge, representing cfm.
but  information obtained from customers, from boeing and from within cfm has now  painted a reasonable picture of how boeing and cfm support their claims that  the 737 max will be more economical than neo and how the leap is being  optimized for max.
reducing the fan enables cfm to eliminate some lpt stages, our source  explains, which also cuts other parts.
but i have a model for you and a video.
compared with a320neo and both did the job but 737 max was our choice.
we asked boeing about  this, and we’re told the slide reflects rounding up the numbers and not  an actual increase in the previously announced economic claims.
aviation week has a speculative piece that  us airlines have declared “war on boeing.”
thus, the neo family competition provides a better snapshot of how the two  engines stack up in the view of customers.
this, then, infers a purchase  price of $216m-$230.4m. american airlines:
the purpose of this post is not to attempt an independent analysis, but  rather to explain why boeing and cfm make the claims they do.
categories: airbus, boeing, cfm, pratt & whitney tags: 737max, 737ng, a320neo, airbus, boeing, cfm, gtf, leap, pratt & whitney the pacific northwest aerospace alliance is hosting two conferences in the seattle area in february and march.
chaker chahrour, evp cfm a380 cost: flight global reports that air france–a launch customer of the airbus a380–just concluded a lease deal for one of the giant airplanes for a rental of $1.8m per month.
will reach final configuration in  2013.
this is coming at just the right time.
this eliminations allow the leap to be shorter, which also allows the engine mounting to be shorter.
we’ve obtained some details to explain how cfm is proceeding.
airbus, boeing, bombardier, cfm, pratt & whitney, the teal group’s richard aboulafia, g2 global solutions’ michel merluzeau, alcoa and electroimpact are among the presenters on the commercial side.
ge and cfm have been very good in past in  delivering products on time and meeting specifications.
the slide shows an additional 1%  advantage for fuel burn over neo and 17% over a320ceo (current engine option,  as airbus now calls it), of +5 (vs 4) and +17 (vs 16).
join 999 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
we believe we have much more credible technology than gtf.
[albaugh looks a lot happier at this press conference than he did at the  american airlines one.]
while avweek raises some interesting points, we’re told this has more to do with a dispute between delta air lines–instigator of the ata action–and india.
we asked boeing about this, and we’re told the slide reflects rounding up the numbers and not an actual increase in the previously announced economic claims.
read more…categories: airbus, boeing, cfm tags: 737 max, 737-800, a320, a320neo, airbus, boeing, pacific northwest aerospace alliance there has been a great deal of debate over whether boeing can meet the sfc reduction targets for its 737 max.
u-turn al has also alternative praised, condemned then praised the airbus a320neo, bombardier cseries and the pratt & whitney gtf.
turboprops are slowly regaining favor in some  quarters.
when max was announced, boeing claimed, “the airplane’s fuel burn is expected to be 16 percent lower than our competitor’s current offering and 4 percent lower than their future offering” and “it will have the lowest operating costs in the single-aisle segment with a 7 percent advantage over the competition.”
we like the gtf technology but this comes as a package and cfm has  millions of flight hours behind it.
the assumptions used in the analysis are also listed on  the slide.
the march event pnaa is organizing is a suppliers forecasting symposium.
we think boeing is merely getting mugged in the process and that this is not a “war on boeing.”
tayloe washburn of project pegasus and the washington aerospace partnership will discuss the issues surrounding the assembly site of the 737 max.
the 747-8 engines are optimized for this aircraft despite the smaller fan size.
keeping up with u-turn al’s about-faces has been a dizzying prospect.
efficiency improvements allow up to improve without complexity.
read more… categories: airbus, boeing, cfm tags: 737 max,  737-800, a320, a320neo, airbus, boeing, pacific northwest aerospace alliance optimizing leap for 737 max february 8, 2012 40 comments there has been a great deal of debate over whether boeing can meet the sfc  reduction targets for its 737 max.
read more…categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier, cfm, cseries, pratt & whitney tags: 737 max, 737ng, a320neo, airbus, boeing, bombardier, cfm leap, cseries, pratt & whitney gtf southwest airlines held a web press conference (with written question submissions the staff can screen in advance–bad idea) on its new 737 max order.
now pw can wheel and deal all it  wants.
we expected only the 737 order; we had previously reported nas was one of the “commitments” for the max.
tayloe washburn of project pegasus and the washington aerospace partnership  will discuss the issues surrounding the assembly site of the 737 max.
neo deliveries will begin in 2016, equipped with the pw gtf.
while avweek raises some interesting points, we’re told this has more  to do with a dispute between delta air lines–instigator of the ata  action–and india.
it’s well enough known that wn and boeing had confidence to go  forward at this time.
cfm is exclusive on the boeing 737 and comac c919 and pw is exclusive on the mitsubishi mrj and the bombardier cseries.
primary factors of fleet commonality and gauge of 737-8 (more seats),  lighter airplane vs a320.
pnaa was also asked by the white house  and the us commerce department to arrange a meeting of key ceos in seattle to  discuss economic issues affecting aerospace.
aviation week has a speculative piece that us airlines have declared “war on boeing.”
turboprops: jets always draw the most attention but aspire aviationhas a long piece about turboprops, specifically the q400 vs the atr series, that merits reading.
just 15 the following year.
we sought out boeing at that time in order to include their detail in that posting; boeing declined.
the southwest airlines order on 13 december launching the 737 max programme is a launch of the -8 version.
as we’ve previously noted, it is not unknown for engine makers to  deeply discount engine prices even more than the airframers discount their  airplanes.
they follow boeing and the supply chain and have their views on forecasting the  needs of the suppliers.
in the january 17 note, bernstein looks at the after-market engine business  of safran, which is dominated by the cfm56.
the purpose of this post is not to attempt an independent analysis, but rather to explain why boeing and cfm make the claims they do.
the beauty of it: from randy tinseth’s blog, here is  a photo that is just a beauty, from the dubai air show: categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier, cfm tags: 737, 787, a319, a321, a380, air france, air india, airbus, american airlines, atr, atr turboprops,  boeing, bombardier, cfm, cfm56, flight global, gtf, international aero engines,  leap, lufthansa, q400, rolls-royce, v2500 older entries
the slide shows the improved fuel burn minus the negative impact of additional weight and drag to come up with net figures.
there are nearly 17,000 cfm 56 engines in service today, mostly what bernstein calls the second generation.
cfm, of course, is the sole-source engine provider on the boeing 737 and has about half the market share on the airbus a320 family.
more recently, he appears to be doing everything to  cast a shadow over the program.
we’ve  been trying for months (since last june, in fact) to follow up their briefing  in advance of the paris air show and boeing has been declining all interview  requests on max.
more than 300 people attended the 2011 conference, which is now the largest in the pacific northwest and one of the largest on the west coast.
a couple of points of note for the airinsight analysis: gecas buys only ge engines, so pw had no chance in this exclusive-supplier scenario; and republic’s cfm selection was part of a financial rescue package involving gecas (which leases a319s and a320s with cfm engines to republic subsidiary frontier airlines) and cfm (which restructured cfm maintenance agreements).we detailed the republic order at the time.
the 747-8 engines are  optimized for this aircraft despite the smaller fan size.
our choice guarantees wn a single fleet type well into the next decade.
this 2 1/2 day conference is comprised of a defense focus day on the  afternoon of feb. 6; a day-and-a-half of commercial aviation presentations and  a suppliers’ fair on the afternoon of the 8th.
it was announced monday aa split its  engine order between cfm (for the airbus a319) and iae (for the a321).
these are two important events sponsored by pnaa and the a&dss summit  by bci aerospace is equally important to the washington aerospace supply chain.
u-turn al has also alternative praised, condemned then praised the airbus  a320neo, bombardier cseries and the pratt & whitney gtf.
this debate revolves in part because neither boeing or cfm have been forthcoming about details how the cfm leap engine is being optimized for max.
brian hirshman, svp technology, wn we did extensive analysis vs a320neo and felt 737 max better suited.
while rolls-royce  was involved in iae, there was no incentive for rr to be flexible on v2500  sales that might lead to gtf transactions.
chaker chahrour, evp cfm core is optimized for max for best overall fuel burn.
brian hirshman, svp technical operations, told flightglobal pro on 15 december that the carrier is up-gauging its fleet, which it began doing this year with acquisition of the 737-800 for the first time.
but the iae v2500 is viewed as the  better engine for the larger a321–more thrust and lower fuel  burn–and american follows lufthansa airlines in splitting the engines for  the smaller and larger airbus family.
separately, we’ve been provided some diagrams by cfm for publication about the leap and how its architecture and technology benefit from the ge90 and genx.
this think-piece relates to the air transport association suing the us export-import bank over plans to finance 787s ordered by air india, a financial and management basket-case.
this 2 1/2 day conference is comprised of a defense focus day on the afternoon of feb. 6; a day-and-a-half of commercial aviation presentations and a suppliers’ fair on the afternoon of the 8th.
the carrier, which has substitution rights  between the -7 and the -8, has chosen to bypass the -7 for now.
bedford appears to be engaged in a campaign to raise questions about the bombardier cseries, for which he has orders and options for 80 cs300s, much the same way u-turn al alternatively praises then complains about the airbus a350, boeing 747-8f (ordered by cargolux, in which qatar owns a third) and the boeing 787.
categories:airbus, boeing, cfm tags: 737 max, a320neo, airbus, boeing, cfm, cfm  leap cfm aftermarket drives safran revenues, profits january 27, 2012  5 comments a recent report by bernstein research takes an in-depth look at safran, the  french company that is the parent of snecma, a joint venture partner with ge to  form cfm international.
in a surprise, norwegian air shuttle split a large order between airbus and boeing for a320 and 737 families.
while rolls-royce was involved in iae, there was no incentive for rr to be flexible on v2500 sales that might lead to gtf transactions.
read more…categories: cfm tags: 737, a320, airbus, boeing, cfm, safran
this allows us to accelerate the retirement of older airplanes.
but our source has direct knowledge of the program.
in the lawsuit between pratt & whitney and rolls-royce over patent claims for the engines powering the airbus a380, court documents revealed discounts as steep at 80% or more.
read more… categories: airbus, cfm, pratt & whitney tags:  a320neo, airbus, cfm, gtf, leap, pratt & whitney boeing max v airbus neo; fan size and optimizing the leap for max,  part 2 february 10, 2012 44 comments the war of words between airbus and boeing continued unabated at the  pacific northwest aerospace alliance 11th annual conference this week in  suburban seattle.
we sought out boeing at that time in order to include their detail  in that posting; boeing declined.
boeingheld a tele-conference november 4, but  it could only be characterized as a high-level look at the program.
pnaa was also asked by the white house and the us commerce department to arrange a meeting of key ceos in seattle to discuss economic issues affecting aerospace.
this, then, infers a purchase price of $216m-$230.4m. american airlines:
randy tinseth, vp market, showed this slide (click on the slide to enlarge), the first time we’ve seen one like it.
pratt & whitney: does the american deal mean pw has a good change of placing the gtf on the a320neo order by american?
pw shares the engine supply position on the irkut ms21 with a russian  powerplant.
cfm has likewise declined interview requests (three since august, when max  was launched).
cfm is also using ceramics to the max leap.
bernstein’s report illustrates what we have occasionally written: the importance of after-market parts sales and mro (maintenance, repair and overhaul) is to the engine market.
read more…categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier, cfm, cseries, embraer, pratt & whitney tags: 737-700, 747-8f, 787, a319, a319neo, a320neo, a350, airbus, boeing, bombardier, bryan bedford, cargolux, cfm, cseries, e-190, e-195, embraer, gtf, leap, pratt & whitney, qatar airways, republic airways, u-turn al airinsight has an interesting analysis of the market share of the gtf vs the leap on the a320neo family.
in addition to the airbus position, it should also be noted that at least one airline analysis of the max vs neo concludes that max will only be around 2% better than neo, not the 7%-8% lower operating costs claimed by boeing.
[last time kelly said that was when he  proposed moving from sea-tac to boeing field in seattle.
this report is the result of months of talking with customers and sources within boeing and cfm; and from public appearances by boeing and cfm.
the assumptions used in the analysis are also listed on the slide.
pnaa serves  washington, oregon, idaho, montana, alberta and british columbia.
but boeing revealed a little bit more detail on the 737 max vs the a320 neo  that suggests their analysis gives another percentage point advantage than was  originally announced last august.
southwest formally launches the leap-1b. mike van der ven, coo.
we both would have liked a new airplane, but when you look at lessons  learned [from 787] it was more challenging to bring to market in the timeframe
this think-piece relates  to the air transport association suing the us export-import bank over plans to  finance 787s ordered by air india, a financial and management basket-case.
turboprops: jets always draw the most attention but aspire  aviationhas a long piece about turboprops, specifically the q400 vs the atr  series, that merits reading.
airbus disputes the underlying boeing analysis as well as claiming the  assumptions used favor boeing instead of real-world operating conditions.
we’ve noted previously that the after-market is more important than  the sale price of the engine where there is competition for a power plant.
but information obtained from customers, from boeing and from within cfm has now painted a reasonable picture of how boeing and cfm support their claims that the 737 max will be more economical than neo and how the leap is being optimized for max.
read more…categories: airbus, cfm, pratt & whitney tags: a320neo, airbus, cfm, gtf, leap, pratt & whitney the war of words between airbus and boeing continued unabated at the pacific northwest aerospace alliance 11th annual conference this week in suburban seattle.
we’ve noted previously that the after-market is more important than the sale price of the engine where there is competition for a power plant.
got his head handed to  him in the local opposition.
boeing’s insitu  eads north america and lockheed martin are  among the defense industry presenters.
we expected only the 737 order; we had previously reported nas was one of  the “commitments” for the max.
pnaa members get a discount to the a&dss event.
these are some of the key ways cfm is optimizing leap for max.
airbus disputes the underlying boeing analysis as well as claiming the assumptions used favor boeing instead of real-world operating conditions.
we  covered theairbus detail following istat’s european conference in  barcelona.
we also wrote this piece about how the  ge powerhouse combines to win deals.
the slide shows an additional 1% advantage for fuel burn over neo and 17% over a320ceo (current engine option, as airbus now calls it), of +5 (vs 4) and +17 (vs 16).
we’ve been in conversations with boeing for several years.
information may be foundhere.