at  the end of the day, it’s about having a customer and earning money.
they’ll also try to flog the a380 as much as possible and may even succeed with small orders in parts of the world it hasn’t penetrated much to date.
how will american airlines paint its a320 family?
that means an aircraft that receives enough modifications to handle the heavier cfm leap56 engine with a reduced fan diameter which should make the 737 models roughly equivalent to the airbus a320neo with about 2% cost efficiency advantages over the a320neo.
i do not expect to see another new airline show up and i think we may well see one true lcc depart the picture if things get particularly rough with respect to fuel prices or competition.
furthermore, i think boeing may be able to offer earlier delivery positions than airbus can.
if it buys the 737-max, it will need to hold onto those aircraft for about 20 years.
in fact, i think it may well end up being the 737max-9 instead of the 737max-8.
because fuel prices did not go up high enough for those fuel hedges to provide benefit.
the bombardier cseries presents just a touch too much threat in the future.
airbus need to work hard getting their current production sold until their aircraft are in place but without depreciating values and without massive discounts to encourage orders.
however, i do not think it will be similar in size.
i do not think the pilots are going to cede that territory under the current contract or whatever agreement is made for the near future.
southwest has a fairly new, fairly efficient fleet of 737s and it will want to keep buying new aircraft, too.
i admire the gusto in which they present themselves and the entreprenurial spirit with which they approach their brand management with.
right now, boeing can reach to the high 40’s without too much trouble.
almost all of the a319s arrived in the early 2000s.
the md-80’s are departing and rightfully so.
the lack of any other orders even getting mentioned as rumours tells us just how fast the aa deal was put together.
the financial crisis in europe will reduce some demand on oil but i see no real economic growth in any part of the world that will drive demand either.
expect virgin atlantic aircraft to start carrying some message against the iag deal for bmi.
they wield enough buying power to make any aircraft manufacturer sit up and pay attention.
electronic bleed air will be added to improve  cabin pressurization (which is much like how the a350 will use bleed air)and  better means more efficient fuel burn.
it has serious impacts from labor groups who cannot agree on what day it is much less on who represents them with the company (this would be the pilots) and it still doesn’t have a combined seniority list with one agreement in place with both the pilots and the flight attendants.
he mentions that what they’ve seen from the a320neo
this was the tough choice engineering wise.
and they will get a good deal but gone are the days of getting a deal where you can buy a 737-800 and sell it in 3 years to *make* money on the sale.
some might be tempted to think it’s a bluff, i do not think it is anything resembling a bluff.
airbus’ introduction of the neo made it much more imperative to deliver  more efficiency now rather than a decade later.
they’re just not going to give away  aircraft anymore and it appears that it will take o’leary a while longer  to realize the position he and his airline are in.
it would have been a difficult challenge but it is one that boeing is in position to achieve.
i actually think that virgin atlantic will have to find an airline alliance to join and if i’m right, i would lay very heavy odds on it being the star alliance.
had they not had  to make that announcement, these new details would seem very much on time.
what serves the 120 to 150 seat range?
the mitsubishi mrj doesn’t feel quite right for airlines to me and doesn’t offer a growth path into a larger airliner.
(although one does wonder if they’re considering enough range / payload for the 787-10 given that airlines clearly enjoy the performance of late model 777-200er/lr aircraft.
i don’t think we’ll hear about any stunning orders from that part of the world, however.
that said, we aren’t hearing about airbus customers switching to boeing either.
filed under: airline news by ajax no comments » boeing has revealed more details on its definition for the 737max now and one significant revelation is the decision to add 8 inches to the nose gear.
i don’t see a real strong suitor for frontier except, perhaps, jetblue but since frontier isn’t based at jfk airport, i do wonder at jetblue interest in an airline like frontier.
then, later in the day, the rumours started flying that it would announce the order today (wednesday).
despite all the bravado, what we know is that both aircraft manufacturers pretty much compete evenly in the marketplace.
it would have also been more encouraging to see a modification to the nose gear to permit a full on adoption of the cfm leap56 and, possibly, even the addition of a 2nd engine choice (pratt & whitney gtf).
fuel costs will continue to be a difficult thing for airlines to manage.
that said, airbus also just racked up 700+ firm orders for the a320neo and, that, my friends, is very healthy competition.
if anything, i think they’ll promote the cseries and i think they’ll encourage embraer to go bigger.
building a first time, competitive single aisle mainline aircraft requirese a body of experience that china doesn’t have.
arguably japan has it.
they’ve proven me wrong and i think the results are too good for them to not to continue over the next 12 months.
2012 will be largely so as well.
not because airbus invaded the united states (they’ve already done that) but because aa would be regarded as one of boeing’s most solid customers.
delta has a fairly mixed fleet with both boeing and airbus products.
both boeing and airbus need  to find ways to preserve value on existing aircraft lines until their new  generation aircraft enter into service as well.
is that support founded on  sheer love for the airline?
as strong or stronger than the superlegacy airlines.
if anything stirs in the us airline industry, i think it will be in the lcc arena
i say that that statement is ryanair standing up and yelling “look at me!
japan will find ana deploying more and more 787s on more and more routes with more and more success with that aircraft.
so  that they could buy them, operate them for a few years and sell them at a  profit.
europe: british airways managed to get through 2011 without any huge problems and saw willie walsh move up to the ceo position of international airlines group which means willie’s still in charge.
but the airlines makes a strong profit.
milwaukee will become the regional airport it was intended to be instead of a bloody battleground between lcc airlines.
it’s notable that even that aircraft got a better wing in the form of having raked wingtips a la 767-400er for longer duration, efficient flying.
to the contrary, they are struggling to meet demand based on orderbooks.
make no mistake, this really would be a very big loss for boeing.
this might be good for aa, it isn’t good, necessarily for southwest airlines or ryanair.
is that support founded on sheer love for the airline?
the truth is that the emerging economies are largely dependent upon demand from both europe and north america and neither of those economies will see high growth in 2012.
first, garuda is hardly a critical boeing network carrier.
and boeing can’t be just a medium to large aircraft builder.
third, when you look at who these committments come from, it isn’t game changing.
it needs this single aisle market for many reasons and the airlines are dissatisfied with boeing’s tentative approach to what it plans to offers airlines next.
second, airbus landed committments for 500+ aircraft.
as much as boeing and airbus would like to think so, they don’t.
it’s not the late 1990’s or early 2000’s and manufacturers are not struggling to sell aircraft.
right now, we don’t even know what the 737-re will be called and that’s kind of bad.
my problem with this is that it simply confirms the airbus a320neo as the right move and offers boeing little advantage over the next 10 to 15 years and possibly puts it at a disadvantage over that time frame since there are fewer areas to incrementally improve performance of that airframe over time.
airbus execus fight like bulldogs even when someone just happens to walk nearby.
i suspect that if doug parker is able to re-assure boeing over its existing  aa orders, boeing will go neutral or even supportive of such a merger.
both boeing and airbus need to find ways to preserve value on existing aircraft lines until their new generation aircraft enter into service as well.
airbus has pitted its a319neo against the cs300 as the better aircraft and i’d like to point something out.
so why should boeing or airbus feel threatened by ryanair’s moves?
take the bombardier cseries vs airbus a319neo scenario that is unfolding.
the one thing it hasn’t done is announce major paper losses as a result of fuel hedging.
enough so that they could buy them, operate them for a few years and sell them at a profit.
filed under: airline fleets, airline news by ajax no comments »
there have been a number of predictions that the leap56 will be the sale leader in a320neo sales over the long term.
they want to extract as much value from those right now as possible because they know that as soon as they do introduce new airliners, those orders will change quickly.
the truth is, boeing will be happy to sell to o’leary and take his abuse while they do it.
i think we’ll see an order and i suspect that order may well go all to boeing.
look for an order announcement in the next 1 to 3 months and my bet is on a 200 to 250 aircraft order of 737s with about 100 of those coming from the 737max line.
airbus need to work hard getting their current production sold until their  aircraft are in place but without depreciating values and without massive  discounts to encourage orders.
the truth is, it isn’t high fuel prices that are killing airlines.
neither boeing nor airbus is interested in making such deals anymore and rightfully so.
i do not think we’ll see any legacy consolidation despite wishful thinkers for a us airways / aa merger.
right now, we’re a long way away from seeing a sales leader in that aircraft category.
airbus can’t build more even faster to meet the demand on the  a320neo even with some airlines orders going away.
it’s possible that the pratt & whitney engine may have more future potential but right now it also has a lot of risk associated with it.
the alitalia of south america in 2011 and the same in 2012.
southwest will start painting airtran aircraft in its colors and operating even more great deals to more places from atlanta
iberia, british airways’ sister airline, saw willie stirring things up with plans for a lcc subsidiary.
if i were bombardier, i would be knocking on american airlines’ door with a most excellent finance package for its cseries cs100 and cs300.
the oldest a320 series aircraft are now due for replacement as well.
but the world has changed.
and that points out a glaring gap that i haven’t seen anyone talk about yet.
if aa had a fully modern fleet now, it’s likely it would not have lost money this past quarter.
i dislike the bravado and somewhat cheap order tactics as well.
this is a nice launch for cfm and stands in contrast with order a320neo orders that have listed pratt pw1100g as their choice of engine.
boeing will simply add more and more substantiation to their claims as they continue discussions with airlines.
they’ll hang on for a bit longer
fuel price volatility will continue to be a problem.
much like the new and improved a330 that airbus tried to sell many years ago didn’t fly either.
he even gets to land a traditional boeing customer (garuda international) but at the risk of sounding anti-airbus and pro-boeing, there is a bit more to this story in my opinion.
it will maintain a large fleet of nextgen 737s for the next 10 years or more.
this is not an all new aircraft with all new materials and airlines will expect it on time or early.
yes, that begins to look like a new airliner but it puts boeing firmly ahead in the narrow body game.
i’ll point out that the a320 aircraft started deliveries in the late 1980’s (1988) and several us airlines such as united own some of the oldest models.
richard branson actually didn’t make the news very often except to shout, stamp his feet and act insulted that virgin atlantic wasn’t able to do a deal to win bmi.
while ryanair says its dead serious about this aircraft, they conveniently do not rule out striking a deal with boeing or airbus on their aircraft and i would point out that china has yet to produce a viable commercial aircraft . . .
i do think the a321neo will be the 757-ish replacement and i do not think that aa will upsize aircraft to the 737-900er down the line.
filed under: airline fleets, airline news by ajax no comments » virgin america has announced a deal with cfm to supply the cfm leap56 engine for its airbus a320neo orders.
those positions are needed now and over the next 7 to 10 years.
i’m talking about the 737-300/400/500 series aircraft.
filed under: airline news by ajax no comments » last thursday, there were a number of reports (mostly based on a bloomberg report) that said that american airlines was in discussions with airbus to buy 100 a320 class airliners.
current demand isn’t from growth, it’s simply from the need to replace aging airliners and the thoughts of ramping up production to 50+ per month does smack of hubris.
i would look for a sizeable portion to be 737-900er aircraft with some 737-800s.
filed under: airline fleets by ajax no comments » every airline reporting on its quarterly financial performance last month cited fuel as a major impact to their bottom line.
this has credence due to the fact that united has about 200 aircraft that are some of the oldest around (these are 757s and 737s mostly from the original united airlines) and those aircraft are likely having a real impact on the bottom line as a result of fuel costs and maintenance.
and i think it will be the 737max and 777-300er.
and i’m not even sure that exists.
i think it’s possible that virgin america will make money in 2012 and i think it is really possible that we’ll all be pleasantly surprised by that.
in fact, it presently is the only airliner that does.
o’leary, not surprisingly offers that anybody buying aircraft right now is nuts given the prices.
i do wonder how much longer lufthansa can rely upon its a340 aircraft and somewhat expect lufthansa to bite the bullet and buy the 777.
jetblue decided to fly more to the caribbean, entrench itself even more at jfk airport and blew it during an october snowstorm (again).
but it doesn’t mean md-90s (which use a far better engine).
i was certain that we would hear other airlines grumble about being kept out of the loop or shout with joy that they, too, wanted to order the aircraft.
about 1/3 of the a320s were delivered in the mid 1990s with the balance showing up from around 2000 and on.
in addition, boeing  has and continues to support aa’s purchases for aircraft in a variety of  ways.
it didn’t need quite as many 737s.
aircraft manufacturers don’t win over the long term with derivatives and i’ll point out that there have been a total of 9 major derivatives of the 737 with several sub-derivatives of those as aircraft as well.
some perceive that boeing has been slow to release details and i understand that perception but the truth is that american airlines’ order last summer forced their hand into a premature announcement.
there is maneuvering room left with those fleets.
they have a firm handle on the 787-9 development and i think they’ll find it within themselves to repeat that on the 787-10.
through this order and previous small orders, american airlines will have upguaged their entire fleet and particularly so in the next 5 to 7 years.
they are almost all from existing airbus customers and from customers in areas where airbus and france have heavy influence.
jal will take delivery of its 787s and find that they not only work well for jals needs but actually exceed expectations.
look at me!” to boeing and airbus. ]
that’s the part that is suspect.
filed under: airline fleets by ajax 2 comments » ryanair says that it may buy or lease used aircraft to fill its gaps until the comac c919 arrives in 2018 with a 200 seat aircraft.
airbus needs to understand that it isn’t going to compete everywhere all of the time.
presently, the smallest aircraft in its fleet will be the 737-800 or a320 at roughly 160 seats.
but right now the cfm leap56 offers the same performance with great reliability and reduced risk for the owner.
the truth is, aa is big enough to get preferred pricing and early slots regardless.
filed under: uncategorized by ajax no comments »
their size (and the size of several competitors) demand manufacturing positions that can’t be serviced exclusively by one manufacturer.
the truth is, i think the airbus a320neo does fit ryanair’s needs a bit better these days.
boeing ceo james mcnerney expressed his and boeing’s viewpoint that they support american airlines having an opportunity to exit their bankruptcy as a stand alone company.
after this paris airshow, a few things occur to me when it comes to airbus.
airlines will continue to constrain their capacity and that will show more discipine than i thought they had 3 years ago.
this won’t be revealed a la one big announcement john leahy style.
that’s the airliner that it really needs to go deep on.
2011 also saw long term ceo gerard arpey depart the company (to work with former continental ceo larry kellner) and aa president tom horton took over.
iberia pilots decided to strike because shooting onself in the foot can’t be just an indian thing.
this is an airline that 6 years later is still effectively operating as two airlines (under one name).
assuming it can take deliveries in 2017, that means the max stays in the fleet for as long as 2037 or longer.
airbus’ introduction of the neo made it much more imperative to deliver more efficiency now rather than a decade later.
when the market is flooded with those aircraft, the manufacturers have a much harder time selling customers into their newest and best.
there are no more improvements and as fuel climbs, these aircraft become quickly unattractive even when completely paid for.
you want to satisfy  airlines with new aircraft but some of those who buy aircraft are lessors and  you don’t want to anger them by depreciating their assets they already  hold.
filed under: airline news by ajax no comments » the competitive spirit that airbus engages in, particularly at air shows, always both impresses me and kind of repulses me.
in fact, airlines are being much more prudent in their orders by ordering a few here and a few there to just keep pace with their conservative needs.
many have the incorrect idea that aa is contractually committed to buying boeing only.
filed under: airline news by ajax
so they want to slim those lists down as much as possible right now.
i expect that we will see airlines focus more and more on fuel economy over the next several years.
so what does it mean?
i don’t always sense that they’re defending the right things in the marketplace but, rather, defending their image against all comers.
but i think they’ll struggle to offering the delivery positions that united will need.
however, what makes sense for aa doesn’t necessarily make sense for another airline.
but that would require a fleet change that would  take years to accomplish and with a320neo delivery positions reaching  “unobtanium” levels for the next decade, the 737max probably does  offer the best option given their position.
lost in the noise: pinnacle airlines and sean menke aa responds to us airways / union announcement aa unions and us airways: that cracking sound why would unions look at us airways?
more likely, airbus wouldn’t roll such an aircraft out until 2030.
airlines need stable oil prices and, frankly, so do the world economies.
this is the first official mention of a 737 re-engine and i think we’re going to see some gnashing of teeth on the part of some airlines over the idea that a fresh design is likely 10+ years away.
it’s a mainliner by any definition and one based on a design that is 20+ years old.
because aa already has a large 737 fleet.
airbus managed a coup by forcing boeing’s hand and scaring them away from a new design.
filed under: aircraft development by ajax no comments » michael o’leary, ryanair and the 737 february 1, 2012 on 12:20  pm | inairline news | 3 comments ryanair’s ceo michael o’leary has decided to express his  disappointment in what they’ve seen of the 737max so far.
it’s a design that many see risky given its complexity.
no huge numbers but large enough to make a splash.
bombardier will work its tail off to sell more of the cseries and i think it may even succeed.
but that would require a fleet change that would take years to accomplish and with a320neo delivery positions reaching “unobtanium” levels for the next decade, the 737max probably does offer the best option given their position.
that said, i also think airbus is a bit reactive when it comes to competing.
the dirty secret about that order is that lion isn’t  an airline with significant risk both in operations and financially.
boeing will be biding its time on improvements to the 777 until it sees more definition of the a350-1000 and it will throw its resources into ramping up 787 production, 787-9 development and 737max development.
for most airlines, going deep on the a320neo is the wrong decision.
but they are going away because they are fuel inefficient and they’re getting old to boot.
lufthansa did itself a favor and got rid of bmi and i expect they’ll continue their very conservative mangement of the airline and the subsidiary airlines.
if it were to be a re engine strategy, it would have been far more encouraging to see boeing design a new wing or a modification to the wing to bring additional gains.
there is one more question lingering as well . . .
airlines such as southwest realize that a smaller airliner is probably necessary for growth now that they have the nation’s largest cities essentially covered.
what it doesn’t really have anymore is that 70’s/80’s fleet of aircraft with really inefficient engines a la md-80s and what it does have in that category, it’s getting rid of fast.
perception is as important as facts when it comes to whether or not an airline views your aircraft as leading edge.
it’s a geared turbo fan that pratt has really been working on for more than two decades in one form another.
airlines of that size can no longer afford to be an exclusive  customer of one manufacturer or another.
the airline with the most fuel efficient aircraft will see an advantage.
at least a little bit, yes.
particularly in atlanta.
boeing has done pretty good until recently although i think the influx of mcdonnel douglas execs hurt them.
there is no financial penalty for walking away from this except what aa might not get in preferred positions and pricing.
all of that said, boeing is in danger of becoming a bit too secretive of its plans.
the only way to offer early positions is to increase production even more.
right now, both manufacturers have deep, deep order lists.
neither works for mainline service very well because they’re heavy for the number of passengers they carry and their range just isn’t needed for routes requiring those passenger numbers.
airbus would struggle with that without making a much larger investment in a new line (such as in the united states.)
they all enjoy the same problem in this area.
both boeing and all other airlines have largely been silent on the 737re since that order.
say goodbye to the older 737s.
because these changes add more risk to their ability to deliver this aircraft in 2017.
in addition, boeing has and continues to support aa’s purchases for aircraft in a variety of ways.
what those airlines have learned is that neither boeing nor airbus has a supply chain that can meet all their needs all of the time and on time.
in fact, i was a big advocate of fuel hedging not because of the windfall profits it provided many airlines for many years but, rather, because it really did make costs stable.
united will order a nice chunk of aircraft and i’ll bet that it will be an order similar in mix to the american airlines order from both airbus and boeing.
the benefit in fuel savings on this order will take a while to be realized.
in fact, any worry about the 737max is kind of silly.
why do i think so?  because these changes add more risk to their  ability to deliver this aircraft in 2017.
embraer gets close but it doesn’t quite get there.
well, for the committed airbus customer, going deep on the a320neo isn’t quite as foolish because it is fairly obvious that airbus *won’t* have a replacement for the a320neo as soon as 2025.
i also think that delta will decide its not afraid of southwest and it will decide to give southwest a taste of bullying it hasn’t experienced before.
if there is one thing  boeing knows, it’s that they cannot afford to damage their credibility  with airlines further with a late arrival of the 737max.  this is not an  all new aircraft with all new materials and airlines will expect it on time or  early.
we won’t see a need for production rates at 50 or more per month until a manufacturer gets off its duff and builds a new single aisle aircraft.
a good example of that last part is delta buying more and more md-90  aircraft.
one thing is sure, the comac  919 isn’t going to deliver what ryanair needs and certainly not on  time.
the orders its racked up so far are fairly paltry and at risk, in my opinion.
the merged airline would, upon conclusion, have far more boeing aircraft and far more resources to service and operate boeing aircraft than airbus aircraft.
picking your fights is an art.
neither boeing nor airbus is interested in making such deals  anymore and rightfully so.
india the airline industry in india has imploded and we’re just watching the mushroom cloud of debris settle.
tam has 27 a350-900s ordered and i think that order *might* be at risk.
no and i don’t think the manufacturers are going to commit to that presently.
they are working very, very hard to bring as  much advantage as possible to the single aisle wars with airbus.
if there is one thing boeing knows, it’s that they cannot afford to damage their credibility with airlines further with a late arrival of the 737max.
i don’t think we’ll see much from the other regional airliners being developed.
this, in some ways, smells like boeing trying to maintain the older airliner to use as an replacement for aging military aircraft such as what they’ve done with the 737 in creating the boeing p-8a poseidon (replacement for the venerable p-3).
no one else is any farther along.
yes, that means md-80s
and i think they’ll bump up orders for the 787 and 777 as well.
i wrote a long blog post early yesterday morning about american and the rumoured order it was about to make.
furthermore, airlines need to hedge against their labor costs which will only grow over time.
the folly is that ramping up production comes with fairly high costs and the only way to justify those costs is to be able to show that you’ll have an order list that will sustain those high production rates.
an airliner series with practical passenger capacities ranging from 90 to 130 seats is just what these airlines need.
the market will become flooded with cheap, relatively new “classic” single aisle airliners with a new single aisle airliner introduction.
it’s clear that major boeing customers want to see something on the table.
so far, they’re impressed but what they’ve seen of the 737max so far does not.
furthermore, both airlines have orders for airbus a320neo aircraft  already.
boeing can’t afford to dither around much longer.
again, these are 1970’s aircraft and while their amazing performance lent them a lease on life, they’ve become very expensive balanced against other aircraft that can perform 90%+ of the same missions.
it needs replacement aircraft for the remaining 737-300/500 aircraft in the fleet and that is being achieved with 737-800s (which replace 737-700s which then replace 737-300/500 aircraft.)
airlines will continue to make large orders for more fuel efficient narrow body aircraft.
no comments a number of analysts have noted that the real goal for airbus this next  year is to sell production slots that are open for current a320 aircraft up to  and including eis for the a320neo aircraft.
they are getting closer and i do believe that china will one day manage to succeed.
this may well be the “major network carrier” that airbus coo john leahy has spoken of with respect to the a320neo.
the a319 and 737-700 seat roughly 135 or more passengers.
if it does succeed, that success will begin in europe as well as for airlines of lesser developed areas such as the middle east, india and the far east.
the aircraft of choice will be, i think, the airbus a320neo
the far east chinese airlines will order more aircraft and i expect we’ll see orders from them for 777s and a380s and possibly some a350s.
that’s eminently possible for them to do.
it’s not just an opportunity for southwest to succeed in atlanta but it is also an opportunity for delta to capture lost customers.
all in all, i think it will be a tough year for european airlines.
filed under: airline news by ajax no comments »
it’s not the late 1990’s or  early 2000’s and manufacturers are not struggling to sell aircraft.
the a320neo is something that american needs more than most network airlines.
i don’t think we’ll see more consolidation in south america
i don’t think the decisions they are now announcing about this aircraft reflect a company that is struggling to maintain the status quo in the marketplace.
ryanair will back away from this aircraft quietly, i think.
it is thought that boeing will have a slight advantage that,  according to many, will remain about 2% better than airbus.
it’s westernized, it’s flying and it does feel like its the right size.
i suspect that if doug parker is able to re-assure boeing over its existing aa orders, boeing will go neutral or even supportive of such a merger.
a new pylon and strut for engines will be used in the style of the 787 and  the rear tail cone will be extended and the area above the elevator thickened  to improve aerodynamics.
tomorrow, a summary of what i see for 2012 and the world airline industry.
united and delta made money.
it will fit almost all of the missions the 757 is currently serving (except for trans-atlantic flights) and it will do it with pretty good efficiency compared to what boeing is offering right now.
they’re a good customer.
even if the legacy and superlegacy airlines get pilots to agree to new scope clauses that permit them to engage regional airlines for that 90 to 130 seat flying, somebody has to buy the aircraft and fly them.
boeing/mcdonnel douglas pitted the 717 against the embraer 170/190 and got its hat handed to them.
on the one hand, airbus coo john leahy gets to make good on his prediction of 500+ committments to the a320neo by the paris air show.
the a320neo and 737max aircraft are interim solutions.
at the end of the day, most airlines prefer to see results over having a grand announcement.
numbers are perception and boeing knows how well it did when it was running up the 787 numbers in the early days.
virgin america has horned in on american’s routes, frontier has struggled more and more under republic airways leadership and us airways still doesn’t have pilots or flight attendants integrated onto one seniority list.
they *seem* like a new aircraft.
and now we know why john leahy was hinting at boeing losing a major network carrier.
boeing will simply add more and more substantiation to their  claims as they continue discussions with airlines.
but what does it need?
but i also think that if any slots at jfk, lga, ewr, iad or dca come available for purchase, southwest will bid the cost of a boeing and lose again.
this airline also flies from far less popular hubs, contracts with far less ideal regional airlines and has far fewer international flights and even if it could fly more international routes, it lacks the equipment to do so.
aircraft manufacturers have a much more sure path for the next 10 years now.
i  firmly believe that boeing was leaning towards a new aircraft but also needed  time and space to get where it needed to be with that aircraft.
look for airlines to “upsize” their aircraft.
i strongly suspect we’ll see a metallic silver used with the current paint scheme over that.
it’s time for a decision and enough time has passed to make that decision.
american airlines is a great example and they’ve made their order.
i expect to see an initial southwest order for 100 to 200 aircraft sometime in the next 6 months.
finally, buying blocks of the a320neo and 737max will make an airline look smart.
it’s possible that we’ll see a real 787-10 announcement in 2012 but, if so, probably not until the latter part of the year.
a good example of that last part is delta buying more and more md-90 aircraft.
so, is a growth to 40 aircraft plus or minus a month justified?
it may be named united but it is run by continental executives now and those executives have found ways to effectively use the 737 on their routes.
both manufacturers know that their order books are soft.
airbus can’t build more even faster to meet the demand on the a320neo even with some airlines orders going away.
the sukhoi superjet, on the other hand, has a real chance, i think.
that leads us to another reason why that class of aircraft is needed.
but i do see south america becoming a bit of a battle ground between airline alliances.
instead, he’ll suggest stripper poles could be installed on ryanair aircraft.
they are working very, very hard to bring as much advantage as possible to the single aisle wars with airbus.
once the performance of that aircraft is established, i think we’ll see orders from us and european airlines come in large numbers.
american needs better seat mile costs on its routes and it can achieve those because it can fill its aircraft with business passengers.
at the end of the day, it’s about having a customer and earning money.
i do expect ryanair to make an order and i do think it will be the 737max.
however, this is a pretty big loss for boeing in the psychological warfare arena of aircraft sales.
and it’s got to work hard to deliver on those.
iag also managed to get a tentative deal to buy bmi from lufthansa and become the emperor of slots at london heathrow . . .
the other aircraft it points to are those that many may not have considered.
most see latam going with oneworld and while i can’t disagree with the arguments, i think that skyteam and/or star alliance might just swoop in with one hell of a package that may be too hard to resist.
it’s a delicate line they each walk.
american eagle has crj-700s that are configured from 63 to 65 seats and aa is currently scope clause limited on how many of these aircraft it can fly.
it does mean that we’ll see older aircraft from the 70’s and 80’s going away.
the capital costs are low compared to current boeing aircraft  and the airliner provides close to current boeing efficiencies.
what delta is keeping isn’t nearly as old and inefficient as you think and the aircraft are far less capital expensive than new aircraft are.
embraer has got a nice grip on the regional airliner business but it also has a problem in that, right now, there is no growth path into a larger plane for purchasers.
klm/air france: i see nothing here at all.
it’s the price volatility that hurts them.
some of these committments are memorandums of understanding, some are letters of intent and some are orders.
it needs the max but the airline also is put into an odd position in that it is likely faced with the following scenario:
when you have a competitive environment, customers change from time to time.
it has plans to work on re-engining the e-series
the truth is, boeing will be happy to sell to o’leary and take his  abuse while they do it.
most believe that the status quo between the two manufacturers will be  maintained.
airbus has to get its act together on the a350 and try very, very hard to prevent too much schedule slip.
the middle east after ordering an insane amount of widebodies in 2011, emirates will order another insane amount of widebody aircraft and beat up on boeing about its 747-8i.
take delta, for instance.
the financial crisis on that continent will make it very hard to earn an honest profit and middle eastern airlines will continue to erode the long haul traffic that european airlines have enjoyed for decades.
the capital costs are low compared to current boeing aircraft and the airliner provides close to current boeing efficiencies.
instead, we learn at southwest airlines’ earnings call that they were kept in the loop and . . .
instead, this is a “put up or shut up” move to boeing and i’ll wager that it won’t be the last.
filed under: airline news by ajax 3 comments » 2011 wasn’t the worst year for airlines and 2012 won’t be either.
but with the decision made, i also have to credit boeing for appearing to have decided to go all in.
i firmly believe that boeing was leaning towards a new aircraft but also needed time and space to get where it needed to be with that aircraft.
furthermore, both airlines have orders for airbus a320neo aircraft already.
but i would say that we now have reason 998 why boeing should, you know, get with the program.
with the announcement made on the a350-1000 (which would appear to more or less bring that aircraft into competitive range of the 777-300er but not exceed its capability), it’s time for boeing to bet again.
and bombardier is making the aircraft.
they’ll be the routes they are today and the routes we see developing even now.
this is a big win for cfm and its leap56 engine and while the engine is only announced for the 737re, it is almost certain that that engine will be chosen for the a320 family.
the 737-800 is a good fit as a md-80 replacement but not as a 757 replacement.
neither manufacturer are, in the least, that desperate.
however, southwest knows that a new single aisle airliner will be available around 2025.
this will be spun many ways but at the end of the day, boeing got bruised and is not the aircraft manufacturer who gets to crow about success today.
these aircraft will be on operational leases and it appears aa didn’t have to put much money down for these firms orders (if any.)
there is absolutely, positively, no question that boeing needs to get back in the game asap.
the same is true of the a320neo.
fighting off bombardier and embraer just expends money on low return investments.
look at the seat numbers on these aircraft.
well, for one, the cost to announce this order was tiny compared to a traditional order.
i wouldn’t say this is a done deal
filed under: airline news by ajax no comments » airbus has racked up over 780 firm orders for the a320neo since announcing its availability and even i have to say that i’m quite surprised at how fast that happened.
o’leary, not surprisingly offers that anybody buying aircraft right now  is nuts given the prices.
they appear to be working very hard to make every gain possible against their  competitors to bring even more to the table.
they’ll be from wichita, kansas to st. louis or knoxville, tn to chicago.
there is a gentleman’s agreement that has been followed since the 1990’s that has had aa getting preferred aircraft pricing and early slots in return for remaining an all boeing customer.
the sweet spot its lineup offers will become more attractive to airlines once they see bombardier actually perform in the development and test of this aircraft.
filed under: airline fleets by ajax no comments » various media reports point to boeing leaning heavily towards a “minimum” investment strategy in defining what the new boeing 737 re engine would look like.
some are older than those inefficient 737-300 aircraft and no longer have the fuel efficiency that the latest airbus offerings possess.
recent comments ajax on frontier airlines auditions new animals r on frontier airlines auditions new animals ajax on spot the problem david on spot the problem terry on spot the problem boeing wants aa to work it out alone april 26, 2012 on 1:00 am | in  airline news | no comments boeing ceo james mcnerney expressed his and boeing’s viewpoint that  they support american airlines having an opportunity to exit their bankruptcy  as a stand alone company.
something like that becomes much more likely in 2013.
furthermore, it even gives boeing an “in” with the us airways executive team that it has not had for some time.
hedging is supposed to “smooth” that volatility and it will except that it also causes paper losses which reflect negatively on the airline when it announces its financial performance.
filed under: aircraft development by ajax no comments » ryanair’s ceo michael o’leary has decided to express his disappointment in what they’ve seen of the 737max so far.
one great example is lion airways order from boeing.
i think it will be a partial fleet replacement with lots of options for incremental change in the fleet.
this really is an order of equals practically speaking.
the determining factor?
is this support for aa an attempt to preserve the aa orders for boeing  737max aircraft?
i also think that gaining the latam membership is not nearly as “sure” as they think it is.
it’s a good evolution for the airline and it will continue to fit within its business plan for some time to come.
a new pylon and strut for engines will be used in the style of the 787 and the rear tail cone will be extended and the area above the elevator thickened to improve aerodynamics.
virgin atlantic didn’t die, didn’t find new partners and didn’t extricate itself from the chokehold that singapore airlines has on it.
however, in this particular case this really is a formality.
why did airbus win more orders?
filed under: airline fleets by ajax no comments »
but does it need the 737-max?
now, aa has also announced that it will spin off american eagle soon and we’ll talk about that in a future post but that only means aa can (and will) access other regional airlines for its sub-100 seat flying.
mcdonnel douglas execs never could decide when to fight so ended up hardly ever fighting.
they’ll continue to succeed and be smart in their attempts to gain more dominance in more parts of the world.
say what you want (like it doesn’t include any us network carriers or boeing customers), they put it up there in 6 months and they did it much like boeing did the 787 orders.
diversifying between manufacturers isn’t a bad idea anyway as it makes things just a bit more competitive and the airlines probably gains from that.
simply put, delta is replacing exactly what needs replacement and not buying one aircraft more than necessary.
so far, they’re  impressed but what they’ve seen of the 737max so far does not.
it’s a highly complex, risky effort that doesn’t appear to be providing the benefits its supposed to.
on the other hand, it’s notable that fuel hedging contributed significantly to their losses on paper.
the dirty secret about that order is that lion isn’t an airline with significant risk both in operations and financially.
for 2012, more explosions and more governmental heads will push even deeper into the sand.
however, let’s not forget that fuel is a problem for *every* airline.
therefore, i think the a320 family order will be either a)
furthermore, it even gives boeing an “in” with the us airways  executive team that it has not had for some time.
mcnerney acknowledges that us airways hasn’t bought boeing in a some time and sees aa as a loyal boeing customer as well.
what this isn’t is a loss for boeing.
sooner or later, ryanair will have to make a move on a next generation 737max or a320neo.
yes, initial orders are high(ish) but consider this: annual production of the 737 and a320 already exceeds 800 aircraft a year.
in addition, i think we may well see a follow on order for the 737max aircraft again in the -800/-900 configurations.
what’s the leap56 advantage?
i think we’ll see an order for some more boeing aircraft from jal this year
if aa manages to get a new pilot agreement that allows aa to subcontract its sub 150 seat flying, i’ll be rather shocked.
these are efficient, for their time, but very inefficient when compared to the latest modesl coming off boeing’s line.
china will tout its comac c919 even harder and most of us will try desperately to keep from laughing even harder.
if it is and if there is an order, it will be a major blow to boeing.
in addition, this is the creeping incrementalism that we saw at mcdonnell douglas over nearly a 2 decade time period that led to their ultimate demise.
this order is about a marginal increase in capacity over time for most routes with the 757s leaving ever so slowly over time.
had they not had to make that announcement, these new details would seem very much on time.
and both boeing and airbus are struggling to figure out how to increase their production beyond their plans for production rates that will already be historic for commercial airliners.
south america latam got its approval from brazilian and chilean authorities (barely) and latam will begin consolidating its operations to make more money.
southwest will get its deal and boeing needs southwest to stamp approval on the max.
the aircraft cannot be polished like its 737 counterparts.
so i’m not sure  why o’leary wants to make an enemy of boeing.
filed under: airline news by ajax 2 comments » richard aboulafia of the teal group has criticized boeing and airbus plans to ramp up production on their single aisle airliners and the man has a strong point.
they were kept in the loop and they endorse the aircraft but no other talk of an order.
that’s why i honestly believe we’ll see a large order from southwest airlines for the 737max.
one thing is sure, the comac 919 isn’t going to deliver what ryanair needs and certainly not on time.
filed under: airline fleets, airline news by ajax no comments » american airlines apparently is playing the ryanair game with both boeing and airbus by using a 250 aircraft orders as both a carrot and a stick.
to be fair, even the 737ng is getting a bit long in the tooth and promising incremental improvements isn’t going to satisfy airlines anymore.
if it does turn out to be a robust engine with good lifecycle costs, it may well be the leader going forward.
is this support for aa an attempt to preserve the aa orders for boeing 737max aircraft?
he  mentions that what they’ve seen from the a320neo
i think we’ll see capacity restraint for another year and higher air fares than seen in a long, long time.
it’s a tall order and a difficult  challenge for both manufacturers.
despite its efforts, i think we’ll see more schedule slip and it won’t reveal the entire picture as that unfolds.
the merged  airline would, upon conclusion, have far more boeing aircraft and far more  resources to service and operate boeing aircraft than airbus aircraft.
instead of making any real progress with its labor force, it decided to file bankruptcy but not before having made a historic order for aircraft from both airbus and boeing for the a320 and 737 series aircraft (with both a320, a320neo, 737 and 737max in the mix).
the question is whether or not boeing is taking american seriously in this.
but i think they’ll concede the need to develop a larger airliner as well.
i think american airlines will plod through its bankruptcy in 2012 with a bit of scandal here and there.
if o’leary and company wish to continue to operate a successful ulcc, they’ll be lining up to buy them as well because they do offer the kind of incremental gain in efficiency that is going to make the world’s legacy airlines much more competitive with ulcc’s like ryanair.
the cs100 isn’t the attractive aircraft but its the one that will fly and deliver first.
airlines haven’t been able to plan their costs very effectively for the past 3 years.
they’re just not going to give away aircraft anymore and it appears that it will take o’leary a while longer to realize the position he and his airline are in.
and there is no airliner being offered that quite gets the airlines there.
i would expect that we’ll see a number of these begin to be retired or sold off for cargo work.
this is what you politely call a tap on the head for boeing.
some perceive that boeing has been slow to release details and i understand  that perception but the truth is that american airlines’ order last  summer forced their hand into a premature announcement.
somehow, i severely doubt that a boeing led by someone such as alan mulally would have adopted such a strategy.
they had a short extension to their usefulness but you will see these depart rapidly from us based fleets over the next 1 to 3 years.
expect other superlegacy airlines to take a long, hard look at this deal and begin to negotiate for their own superdeals on aircraft with both manufacturers.
other airlines are evaluating the options for what they need in the next 15 to 20 years.
if you’re an airbus customer and you need a single aisle airliner, you’re pretty much going to order the neo.
until the world economies recover, the best the industry can hope to do is manage its problems and earn a bit of money.
the strategy of using airbus for narrow bodies and boeing for wide bodies seems to be a smart one for airlines in that region.
their size (and the size of  several competitors) demand manufacturing positions that can’t be  serviced exclusively by one manufacturer.
air india has already become the new alitalia.
why no orders from southwest yet?
this won’t be revealed a la one big announcement john leahy  style.
these are 1970’s design aircraft and with engines of similar caliber.
the truth is, i think the airbus a320neo does fit ryanair’s needs a  bit better these days.
a number of analysts have noted that the real goal for airbus this next year is to sell production slots that are open for current a320 aircraft up to and including eis for the a320neo aircraft.
it’s learning curve with new materials and design approaches has peaked.
i don’t  think the decisions they are now announcing about this aircraft reflect a  company that is struggling to maintain the status quo in the marketplace.
airlines want to know what boeing is going to do and waiting very much longer is likely going to result in either more orders for airbus or renegade orders to bombardier and embraer.
aerolineas argentinas?
let’s look at the details first: the aircraft will begin arriving from both lines in 2013 and american airlines thinks it will have one of the youngest fleets in about 5 years.
this has begun to feel like an addiction problem.
the bravado always seems a little distasteful when you consider how airbus got where it was and, at the same time, i’m glad for airbus’ presence because it’s clear that it does motivate boeing to do better.
southwest is doing this by buying the 737-800.
check out what engine is on that aircraft.
there will continue to be volatility but i don’t think we’ll see anything like 2008/2009.
as if that wasn’t enough, it made a firm deal on a bunch of 737max aircraft and agreed to take on even more 737-800 aircraft for its routes.
some airlines do desperately need newer, more economical airliners.
airbus coo john leahy has actually come out and called for bombardier to cancel the airplane.
at the end of the day,  most airlines prefer to see results over having a grand announcement.
so it doesn’t hurt for aa to talk to airbus.
filed under: airline news by ajax 2 comments » over the past 12 months, flyingcolors has doubled its readership and has seen nearly 1000 blog entries reached with enough words written to equal a book with over 1700 pages.
and i think it will be small(ish) if anything.
i think we’ll see a largish order from latam and it will be for an airliner to replace aircraft on both the brazilian and chilean side of the airline.
this is why you’re seeing fairly strong orders for the neo from existing airbus customers.
initial orders will reflect some pent up demand to replace aircraft but it’s unlikely that the pace will continue in a sustained manner.
the 767-200er is already clearly a candidate for removal and the 767-300 isn’t far behind it.
i think delta will continue to make a big pile of money with very little controversy surrounding it except that i think delta will look for and execute a plan to encroach on more legacy and superlegacy airline routes as it has announced its intention to do so from la guardia airport.
is there another order for aircraft lurking in the background here?
i also think that united and delta will be growing a bit more concerned about aa late in 2012 once they have a picture of what aa’s cost structures are likely to be.
airlines put off buying large quantities of aircraft for quite a long time  and now the legacy airlines not only want them, they need them.
the post i composed and just deleted talked about how having a single source for your aircraft wasn’t really practical for an airline of aa’s size and all other superlegacy and legacy airlines operate mixed fleets already as a function of a merger.
so i’m not sure why o’leary wants to make an enemy of boeing.
as you can imagine, this spurred quite a bit of speculation.
it wasn’t irrational for aa to go to airbus.
i repeat, boeing really needs to get back into the game.
while i don’t expect quite the same delay as the 787 saw, it will be a significant delay and it will impact airbus.
airlines put off buying large quantities of aircraft for quite a long time and now the legacy airlines not only want them, they need them.
theoretically, they did with the american airlines order but . . .
embraer is considering what to do next when it comes to either re-engining its e series aircraft or building a new airliner (and i think they’ll build a stretched e195 with new engines, frankly.
first, it is time to stop behaving like a teenager in this rivalry that exists with boeing.
i realize that aa has been serving markets that might demand a 120 to 130 seat aircraft with higher frequency using smaller jets but it can’t do that forever.
my own preference was to see boeing make a move for an entirely new aircraft with introduction into service in 2018.
if any orders come from the us, it will be years in the making.
the current fleet of airbus a319s are “good enough” and while some of the a320 aircraft are getting older now, they aren’t quite old enought to start planning retirement of until those older 737-500 and 757-200 aircraft are replaced.
their profits are not taking a hit from hedging contracts that “lose” money.
in fact, us airways performance is exceptional when balanced against the challenges it has.
airbus boxed boeing into this aircraft by introducing the a320neo.
because southwest is one hell of a good negotiator and recognizes that they have power in the simple fact that if southwest buys the aircraft, it’s an endorsement that everyone will pay attention to.
filed under: aircraft development by ajax no comments » airbus and boeing need to sell march 8, 2012 on 4:40 pm | in aircraft  development |
and a market glut of aircraft can result in depreciating demand for your new generation aircraft because the capital costs for current generation aircraft can become low enough to make sense for airlines to buy and use.
i think we’ll see frontier either spun off rapidly in 2012 or the rapid decline of the airline necessitating bankruptcy of republic airways.
the 757 is entering into this territory as well.
quite a bit actually.
it’s an iae v2500, the same that is sold today on the airbus a320 series.
it’s a tall order and a difficult challenge for both manufacturers.
right now, it needs the 737-800 and it needs it now rather than later.
boeing and airbus don’t make that airliner and they don’t plan to make that airliner.
this order will be of dramatic benefit for the airline when it comes to saving on fuel.
the rest of the world filed under: airline news by ajax no comments » now we see some rumour developing that united airlines is in talks to make a 200 aircraft single aisle purchase.
there is no radical shift in the landscape.
for a tiny bit more in costs, southwest can fly significantly more passengers on routes that are seeing enormous demand.
sub-130 seat routes aren’t going to be long and thin transcontinental routes.
you want to satisfy airlines with new aircraft but some of those who buy aircraft are lessors and you don’t want to anger them by depreciating their assets they already hold.
i don’t expect a large widebody order nor a narrowbody order.
north america: southwest airlines did its deal with airtran and bought itself an atlanta base of operations and some very valuable landing slots at northeastern airports.
i think oneworld is going to be smarting through this next year as a function of health problems at founding members american airlines and qantas.
instead of repudiating the c919, michael o’leary will just quit talking about it.
airlines of that size can no longer afford to be an exclusive customer of one manufacturer or another.
but what about the md-90s, you ask?
this only makes sense as the gains are more than enough to justify the purchases and now is the time to gain an advantage in bargaining with both boeing and airbus.
if you can build if efficiently at current production rates (in the mid 30’s per month), you can figure out how to build it at a 60+ aircraft rate when that time comes.
i have a feeling that boeing might be aiming higher.
both know  that some who have ordered both current and next generation aircraft  aren’t necessarily going to be around to take delivery on those aircraft  5 years from now.
if  o’leary and company wish to continue to operate a successful ulcc,  they’ll be lining up to buy them as well because they do offer the kind  of incremental gain in efficiency that is going to make the world’s  legacy airlines much more competitive with ulcc’s like ryanair.
that’s what has happened so far.
some do it well, some don’t.
the real challenge in this aircraft is ensuring support and with boeing as a consultant, it may well have some help in that arena.
2011 was largely a “rebuilding” year for the airline industry.
offering that you couldn’t figure out how to immediately ramp up production to 40 to 60 aircraft a month is a somewhat lame excuse for backing away.
if this happens, oneworld and american airlines gets kicked in the groin in south america.
if they’re confident they can make a new airliner that is 20%+ better, make the bet and get going on it.
it is thought that boeing will have a slight advantage that, according to many, will remain about 2% better than airbus.
the a321 will do a better job of fitting aa’s requirements for a boeing 757 replacement compared to the equivalent 737-900er.
they can make more money for a tiny incremental cost in fuel and one additional flight attendant.
filed under: aircraft development by ajax no comments »
american airlines really does need a better fleet going forward and it cannot afford to wait until 2019/2020 to get started.
that’s an aircraft that has run its course without something game changing.
the bombardier cseries does fit that whole very nicely and does it in harmony with this announced order.
we’re already seeing it in some airlines such as american airlines who has finally realized that if it dumps its md-80 aircraft, it can not only enjoy double digit improvements in fuel efficiency, it can fly more people as well.
airbus will want to keep united
however, the airline wasn’t without some trouble: airtran pilots tried real hard to step on their on feet in a seniority deal with southwest airline pilots.
both know that some who have ordered both current and next generation aircraft aren’t necessarily going to be around to take delivery on those aircraft 5 years from now.
it still doesn’t realize that kind of synergies it needs to from its merger.
however, their arj21 is a non-starter since it is heavy and, you know, no one has really ordered it except chinese airlines who were told to order it.
is growth to 50 or more per month justified?
it might be time for more airlines to roll with the punches.
it stings a bit for boeing but . . .
boeing plays a bit more fair in this area in that it doesn’t “count” something as a committment until it is a firm order.
the a318 is a very poor candidate for the neo and the 737-600 really isn’t offered anymore.
that’s a lot of aircraft and it wasn’t that long ago when boeing and airbus could hardly find a buyer for the planes they were producing.
instead, i think we’ll see more of the same in most respects.
that doesn’t mean that airlines with next generation 737s or airbus a320 series aircraft will be dumping their fleet for new aircraft.
now that airlines know what is going to happen with both the airbus a320 series and boeing 737 series aircraft, they can start shopping for that next class of aircraft that permits entry into those smaller markets cost effectively.
it would appear that airlines vocalized a desire for a new aircraft and ordered the re-engine like it was the best thing to happen since the concorde.
ryanair got stunning prices for their original massive orders.
erj-140 and crj-200 aircraft are not going to be practical going forward.
the 737re doesn’t have board approval to offer . . .
american airlines struggled (more) and lost more than a billion dollars (again).
well, i wouldn’t be surprised if this was both a warning shot over the bow to boeing as well as a serious discussion.
i think its labor force is about to take a beating on wages and benefits and i think the resulting bitterness will last for years.
moreover, i suspect that they would like to be let in on the discussions about what an airline *wants* in a new single aisle airliner / 737 replacement / 737 re-engine.
one great example is lion airways order from  boeing.
i think we’ll see alaska airlines find even more odd partners for its success and still manage to cozy up close to delta while doing it.
but enough about me, let’s look at the last year in the airline world.
my greater point is that you don’t win and you don’t grow as a company by playing “keep up” and playing it safe.
they appear to be working very hard to make every gain possible against their competitors to bring even more to the table.
so, at best, the max is an interim solution for airines like southwest (and ryanair and others) and you don’t go deep on interim solutions.
i’m talking about 2002/2003 time periods which were a result of september 11, 2001 attacks that reduced air traffic dramatically and killed the finances of airlines around the world.
and a market glut of aircraft can result in depreciating demand for  your new generation aircraft because the capital costs for current generation  aircraft can become low enough to make sense for airlines to buy and use.
airbus has sold most of those positions.
mcnerney acknowledges that us airways  hasn’t bought boeing in a some time and sees aa as a loyal boeing  customer as well.
air india gets more money and we wonder why.
most believe that the status quo between the two manufacturers will be maintained.
but with the decision made, i also have to credit boeing for appearing to  have decided to go all in.
some years airbus delivers more aircraft or sells more orders, other years it is boeing that does so.
it is universally recognized that while oil prices may one day stabilize, they won’t return to $20/barrel.
is the airbus a320/a321 the right aircraft?
it would require another production line and even more suppliers for airliners that are now fairly obsolete in light of the a320neo and 737max.
us airways has stopped fuel hedging and their financial results show that fuel hedging just may not be necessary anymore.
the manufacturers think the neo and the max will garner enough orders to justify those production rates.
i do not see any us based orders for the a380.
reacting isn’t always good.
electronic bleed air will be added to improve cabin pressurization (which is much like how the a350 will use bleed air)and better means more efficient fuel burn.
and legacy and superlegacy airlines will need them too if they don’t get their pilots to agree to revised scope clauses.
furthermore, airbus made some big promises for the a320neo
one example is that the 737 already has winglets (aka “sharklets” on the a320).
filed under: airline news by ajax no comments » 737max is getting real april 11, 2012 on 9:02 pm | in aircraft  development | no comments boeing has revealed more details on its definition for the 737max now and  one significant revelation is the decision to add 8 inches to the nose  gear.
they’ve made it out like the a320neo is a no-brainer for development and while it is an incremental improvement, the engineering to deliver is non-trivial.
airlines saw significantly higher fuel prices this year compared to 2010 and it’s true that it’s a hit to profits.
boeing’s 737-900er has worked well for continental but i don’t think it would work too well for american because of range and payload.
if i were a boeing customer, i would imagine that my attitude towards boeing at this point would be quite similar to swa’s ceo gary kelly’s.
instead, they went down.
a full mix of a319/320/321 aircraft with multiple bases or b) a320/a321 aircraft with focused bases i rather doubt that the a319 or the b737-700 will be ordered at all.
filed under: airline news by ajax no comments » world alliances i’m not sure we’ll see much in this territory for skyteam or star alliance.