those are the aircraft with older, less modern and less powerful engines that are costing big dollars in fuel bills.
unlike many, i don’t regard the cseries as a program that will fail.
again, i would have expected american to probably go with cfm on both airframes if only because they do have some experience with the engines as a function of owning the 737-800.
filed under: airline fleets by ajax no comments » american airlines has chosen to receive airbus a319 aircraft and a321 aircraft in its first round of deliveries from airbus as a result of this summer’s order.
its largest derivative so far doesn’t respond to the 777-300 as a game changer either.
airlines put off buying large quantities of aircraft for quite a long time and now the legacy airlines not only want them, they need them.
it will fill the 757-200 role nicely on most domestic routes.
that’s the airliner that it really needs to go deep on.
i was certain that we would hear other airlines grumble about being kept out of the loop or shout with joy that they, too, wanted to order the aircraft.
it’s an iae v2500, the same that is sold today on the airbus a320 series.
but what about the md-90s, you ask?
airbus need to work hard getting their current production sold until their aircraft are in place but without depreciating values and without massive discounts to encourage orders.
enough so that they could buy them, operate them for a few years and sell them at a profit.
but i think it’s destined to be a player among a fairly small core group of airlines.
i don’t think it fits the long, large capacity routes quite as well as the 777 either.
i expect american to meet or beat delta’s seat count.
however, i do not think that means that airbus is out of the game on future orders whatsoever.
this despite the sudden economic turbulence and it’s the right move.
the truth is, the a340 was probably the first airbus aircraft that i really liked visually.
i suspect that if doug parker is able to re-assure boeing over its existing aa orders, boeing will go neutral or even supportive of such a merger.
neither manufacturer are, in the least, that desperate.
neither works for mainline service very well because they’re heavy for the number of passengers they carry and their range just isn’t needed for routes requiring those passenger numbers.
is that support founded on  sheer love for the airline?
this, in some ways, smells like boeing trying to maintain the older airliner to use as an replacement for aging military aircraft such as what they’ve done with the 737 in creating the boeing p-8a poseidon (replacement for the venerable p-3).
it’s notable that even that aircraft got a better wing in the form of having raked wingtips a la 767-400er for longer duration, efficient flying.
if i were bombardier, i would be knocking on american airlines’ door with a most excellent finance package for its cseries cs100 and cs300.
had they not had to make that announcement, these new details would seem very much on time.
that was the 17th delivery of the year and the 58th airbus a380 to be delivered.
it will never enjoy the numbers or prevalence of the 747.
need a long range widebody?
first an aircraft that solved the a330 problem just a little bit better.
both manufacturers know that their order books are soft.
what this isn’t is a loss for boeing.
both know that some who have ordered both current and next generation aircraft aren’t necessarily going to be around to take delivery on those aircraft 5 years from now.
filed under: aircraft development by ajax no comments » ryanair’s ceo michael o’leary has decided to express his disappointment in what they’ve seen of the 737max so far.
other airlines are evaluating the options for what they need in the next 15 to 20 years.
and i think it will be small(ish) if anything.
it’s a tall order and a difficult challenge for both manufacturers.
the md-11 was a bit flawed in that it really needed a truly new wing and better engines to achieve its mission.
airbus did a great job with those aircraft in offering a sweet spot solution for both capacity and range and then made a strong business case for both of them by making them as common as possible.
filed under: airline news by ajax 2 comments » airbus has announced a provisional deal for russian airline transaero to buy its airbus a380 aircraft.
i would criticize airbus for the a380.
numbers are perception and boeing knows how well it did when it was running up the 787 numbers in the early days.
filed under: airline news by ajax no comments » would anyone care to guess at the problem with this takeoff?
the only way to offer early positions is to increase production even more.
what serves the 120 to 150 seat range?
but what does it need?
but does it need the 737-max?
filed under: airline fleets by ajax 1 comment »
while ryanair says its dead serious about this aircraft, they conveniently do not rule out striking a deal with boeing or airbus on their aircraft and i would point out that china has yet to produce a viable commercial aircraft . . .
a fuselage that got borrowed from its first twin-aisle aircraft and cfm engines that were derived from the a320 aircraft.
filed under: airline news by ajax no comments » airbus has racked up over 780 firm orders for the a320neo since announcing its availability and even i have to say that i’m quite surprised at how fast that happened.
airbus coo john leahy is opining that united airlines will ultimately add the a380 to its fleet because, in his opinion, it is the only way to be competitive in the asia pacific markets united serves.
they were kept in the loop and they endorse the aircraft but no other talk of an order.
(video  found on sulako’s blog) filed under: trivia by ajax
use our a330 and if you’ve got trans-pacific routes, we have this lovely 4 engine aircraft for you.
md-80 aircraft are configured with 140 seats.
but the ever frugal derivative player, mcdonnell douglas, played things just a bit too frugal.
it’s fleet average age is 12 years which isn’t as bad as american airlines but it doesn’t tell quite the story either.
and there is no airliner being offered that quite gets the airlines there.
and they will get a good deal but gone are the days of getting a deal where you can buy a 737-800 and sell it in 3 years to *make* money on the sale.
it would have been a difficult challenge but it is one that boeing is in position to achieve.
that means an aircraft that receives enough modifications to handle the heavier cfm leap56 engine with a reduced fan diameter which should make the 737 models roughly equivalent to the airbus a320neo with about 2% cost efficiency advantages over the a320neo.
they’re just not going to give away aircraft anymore and it appears that it will take o’leary a while longer to realize the position he and his airline are in.
i’m talking about 2002/2003 time periods which were a result of september 11, 2001 attacks that reduced air traffic dramatically and killed the finances of airlines around the world.
bombardier will work its tail off to sell more of the cseries and i think it may even succeed.
not fantastically better
the bombardier cseries does fit that whole very nicely and does it in harmony with this announced order.
and it should have given its customer base at the time.
i would suppose that anything is possible
right now, boeing can reach to the high 40’s without too much trouble.
they want to extract as much value from those right now as possible because they know that as soon as they do introduce new airliners, those orders will change quickly.
in addition, i think we may well see a follow on order for the 737max aircraft again in the -800/-900 configurations.
the folly is that ramping up production comes with fairly high costs and the only way to justify those costs is to be able to show that you’ll have an order list that will sustain those high production rates.
a good example of that last part is delta buying more and more md-90 aircraft.
theoretically, they did with the american airlines order but . . .
boeing made the business case on trip costs and won.
somehow, i severely doubt that a boeing led by someone such as alan mulally would have adopted such a strategy.
it’s not the late 1990’s or early 2000’s and manufacturers are not struggling to sell aircraft.
furthermore, airbus made some big promises for the a320neo
their mistake was in underestimating boeing’s ability to look forward.
the orders its racked up so far are fairly paltry and at risk, in my opinion.
those positions are needed now and over the next 7 to 10 years.
the 747 was simply a different class of aircraft.
2011 was largely a “rebuilding” year for the airline industry.
and you got to have pilots that could fly both.
at  the end of the day, it’s about having a customer and earning money.
offering that you couldn’t figure out how to immediately ramp up production to 40 to 60 aircraft a month is a somewhat lame excuse for backing away.
as much as i do not want to fly on such an aircraft, i have to admit that i would like to see what 800 seats on one aircraft looks like.
i think its labor force is about to take a beating on wages and benefits and i think the resulting bitterness will last for years.
this really is an order of equals practically speaking.
both boeing and all other airlines have largely been silent on the 737re since that order.
furthermore, it even gives boeing an “in” with the us airways executive team that it has not had for some time.
assuming it can take deliveries in 2017, that means the max stays in the fleet for as long as 2037 or longer.
boeing will be biding its time on improvements to the 777 until it sees more definition of the a350-1000 and it will throw its resources into ramping up 787 production, 787-9 development and 737max development.
they’re a good customer.
airlines will continue to constrain their capacity and that will show more discipine than i thought they had 3 years ago.
erj-140 and crj-200 aircraft are not going to be practical going forward.
the a340 got hampered by a few things.
current a380 operators are making money with their aircraft but only on extremely high density, high profit long haul routes.
this is the first official mention of a 737 re-engine and i think we’re going to see some gnashing of teeth on the part of some airlines over the idea that a fresh design is likely 10+ years away.
i repeat, boeing really needs to get back into the game.
i’m not sure the a350 is the answer either.
american has also owned a variety of foreign aircraft over the years and has just announced it’s buying foreign again in the form of the airbus a320 family.
and it’s got to work hard to deliver on those.
for most airlines, going deep on the a320neo is the wrong decision.
some perceive that boeing has been slow to release details and i understand that perception but the truth is that american airlines’ order last summer forced their hand into a premature announcement.
the idea that people *want* an a380 because it is an a380 is a bit foolish at best.
what it doesn’t really have anymore is that 70’s/80’s fleet of aircraft with really inefficient engines a la md-80s and what it does have in that category, it’s getting rid of fast.
by that, i mean you shouldn’t go looking for a united announcement about this over the next 5 years.
airlines of that size can no longer afford to be an exclusive customer of one manufacturer or another.
i myself didn’t expect the a319 to be selected because it is heavier aircraft and the costs to operate it are similar to the a320 much as what has developed between the 737-700 and the -800 on the boeing side.
what those airlines have learned is that neither boeing nor airbus has a supply chain that can meet all their needs all of the time and on time.
to the contrary, they are struggling to meet demand based on orderbooks.
i say that that statement is ryanair standing up and yelling “look at me!
filed under: airline fleets by ajax no comments » delta has decided to stick with its plans to order up to 200 aircraft in 2011 says ceo richard anderson.
if you can build if efficiently at current production rates (in the mid 30’s per month), you can figure out how to build it at a 60+ aircraft rate when that time comes.
the a320neo and 737max aircraft are interim solutions.
neither boeing nor airbus is interested in making such deals anymore and rightfully so.
furthermore, airlines need to hedge against their labor costs which will only grow over time.
it may be named united but it is run by continental executives now and those executives have found ways to effectively use the 737 on their routes.
much of its mainstay narrow body aircraft is *old*.
i realize that aa has been serving markets that might demand a 120 to 130 seat aircraft with higher frequency using smaller jets but it can’t do that forever.
look at me!” to boeing and airbus. ]
boeing took a page from the airbus playbook and built the 787 to fit a nice, broad piece of medium and long haul routes and positioned itself to answer the largest a350 with a next gen 777 or next gen new build large capacity, widebody aircraft.
contrary to what some may think, i think that’s the right decision.
but the world has changed.
can you name the 4 foreign aircraft families american has previously owned?
i do not look for bombardier cseries or embraer e190/195 aircraft to be ordered in this.
the mitsubishi mrj doesn’t feel quite right for airlines to me and doesn’t offer a growth path into a larger airliner.
if anything, i think they’ll promote the cseries and i think they’ll encourage embraer to go bigger.
the a318 is a very poor candidate for the neo and the 737-600 really isn’t offered anymore.
no one else is any farther along.
filed under: airline fleets by ajax no comments » american airlines has had a pretty curious fleet at times and they’ve tried out more than one dud in their fleet as well.
it was, in the context of the times, the perfect solution.
if o’leary and company wish to continue to operate a successful ulcc, they’ll be lining up to buy them as well because they do offer the kind of incremental gain in efficiency that is going to make the world’s legacy airlines much more competitive with ulcc’s like ryanair.
i think who comes out on top in this order will be determined by who has slots for earlier deliveries of the more re-engined aircraft.
the current fleet of airbus a319s are “good enough” and while some of the a320 aircraft are getting older now, they aren’t quite old enought to start planning retirement of until those older 737-500 and 757-200 aircraft are replaced.
airbus will want to keep united
the cs100 isn’t the attractive aircraft but its the one that will fly and deliver first.
it needed a bit better wing and better engines (and finally got both in the a340-500/600).
when the market is flooded with those aircraft, the manufacturers have a much harder time selling customers into their newest and best.
i also think that united and delta will be growing a bit more concerned about aa late in 2012 once they have a picture of what aa’s cost structures are likely to be.
i strongly suspect we’ll see a metallic silver used with the current paint scheme over that.
no and i don’t think the manufacturers are going to commit to that presently.
it was way better than mcdonnell douglas’s offering in the md-11 and boeing really didn’t have an aircraft that even fit the needs at all.
furthermore, i think boeing may be able to offer earlier delivery positions than airbus can.
i liked airbus’ approach to the a340/a330, too.
it lends itself to the great airliner liveries of the world.
and they’ll only get older while delta waits for deliveries to start.
airbus would struggle with that without making a much larger investment in a new line (such as in the united states.)
that can be accomplished profitably with the 777 and 787 fleets that these airlines will have.
in addition, this is the creeping incrementalism that we saw at mcdonnell douglas over nearly a 2 decade time period that led to their ultimate demise.
how will american airlines paint its a320 family?
delta has a fairly mixed fleet with both boeing and airbus products.
they’ve made it out like the a320neo is a no-brainer for development and while it is an incremental improvement, the engineering to deliver is non-trivial.
then, later in the day, the rumours started flying that it would announce the order today (wednesday).
therefore, i think the a320 family order will be either a)
this is not an all new aircraft with all new materials and airlines will expect it on time or early.
if any orders come from the us, it will be years in the making.
i do not think the pilots are going to cede that territory under the current contract or whatever agreement is made for the near future.
what’s impressive is transaero’s plans to have these aircraft seat 700 people.
and both boeing and airbus are struggling to figure out how to increase their production beyond their plans for production rates that will already be historic for commercial airliners.
the bombardier cseries presents just a touch too much threat in the future.
the a319 and 737-700 seat roughly 135 or more passengers.
in fact, airlines are being much more prudent in their orders by ordering a few here and a few there to just keep pace with their conservative needs.
i’m not sure i see this as either company’s advantage either.
what we didn’t really count on was engine manufacturers being willing to truly make game changer engines and etops going far past anything anyone could envision.
perception is as important as facts when it comes to whether or not an airline views your aircraft as leading edge.
the 767 was too small and too short ranged to fit the gap.
sub-130 seat routes aren’t going to be long and thin transcontinental routes.
2012 will be largely so as well.
their size (and the size of  several competitors) demand manufacturing positions that can’t be  serviced exclusively by one manufacturer.
i actually thought that something such as the cseries might get considered as that gap filler.
the a380 might ultimately fit into the asia pacific strategies for both united and delta but i don’t see it right now.
so far, it isn’t know how many of each will be received.
i would look for a sizeable portion to be 737-900er aircraft with some 737-800s.
my problem with this is that it simply confirms the airbus a320neo as the right move and offers boeing little advantage over the next 10 to 15 years and possibly puts it at a disadvantage over that time frame since there are fewer areas to incrementally improve performance of that airframe over time.
presently, the smallest aircraft in its fleet will be the 737-800 or a320 at roughly 160 seats.
aircraft manufacturers have a much more sure path for the next 10 years now.
it has plans to work on re-engining the e-series
airbus managed a coup by forcing boeing’s hand and scaring them away from a new design.
this might be good for aa, it isn’t good, necessarily for southwest airlines or ryanair.
airbus has sold most of those positions.
there is absolutely, positively, no question that boeing needs to get back in the game asap.
the aircraft cannot be polished like its 737 counterparts.
it would have also been more encouraging to see a modification to the nose gear to permit a full on adoption of the cfm leap56 and, possibly, even the addition of a 2nd engine choice (pratt & whitney gtf).
however, southwest knows that a new single aisle airliner will be available around 2025.
that’s the part that is suspect.
the same is true of the a320neo.
ryanair got stunning prices for their original massive orders.
fuel costs will continue to be a difficult thing for airlines to manage.
you cannot blame any airline who went that route.
airlines of that size can no longer afford to be an exclusive  customer of one manufacturer or another.
so who are the players?
it could fly fantastic distances but without enough passengers to make it cost effective.
one thing is sure, the comac 919 isn’t going to deliver what ryanair needs and certainly not on time.
the a319 choice surprised me somewhat.
this will be spun many ways but at the end of the day, boeing got bruised and is not the aircraft manufacturer who gets to crow about success today.
the real challenge in this aircraft is ensuring support and with boeing as a consultant, it may well have some help in that arena.
as much as boeing and airbus would like to think so, they don’t.
that would be the equivalent of adding a 777-200 to a 747-400.
some airlines do desperately need newer, more economical airliners.
so they want to slim those lists down as much as possible right now.
the manufacturers think the neo and the max will garner enough orders to justify those production rates.
even if hindsight is 20/20, you can’t say that airbus made a mistake with the a340.
in fact, it often only got capital for new investment if that investment benefitted its owners in the form of jobs programs for their citizens.
it did its job very well but it arrived just a little bit too late to enjoy its success for very long.
and i learned something a bit surprising.
at the end of the day, it’s about having a customer and earning money.
the answer after the fold:(more…) filed under: trivia by ajax no comments » i wrote a long blog post early yesterday morning about american and the rumoured order it was about to make.
o’leary, not surprisingly offers that anybody buying aircraft right now is nuts given the prices.
what delta is keeping isn’t nearly as old and inefficient as you think and the aircraft are far less capital expensive than new aircraft are.
the transaero aircraft will be the rough equivalent of adding another 737 to a 747.
the order is for 4 airplanes at a list value of about $1.5 billion.
it would appear that airlines vocalized a desire for a new aircraft and ordered the re-engine like it was the best thing to happen since the concorde.
once the performance of that aircraft is established, i think we’ll see orders from us and european airlines come in large numbers.
southwest has a fairly new, fairly efficient fleet of 737s and it will want to keep buying new aircraft, too.
almost all of the a319s arrived in the early 2000s.
so, at best, the max is an interim solution for airines like southwest (and ryanair and others) and you don’t go deep on interim solutions.
then the 777-200lr came along and was capable of doing *that* mission better and cheaper.
its smallest derivative is an a330 replacement at best and i question whether or not it will ever get built.
their size (and the size of several competitors) demand manufacturing positions that can’t be serviced exclusively by one manufacturer.
a number of analysts have noted that the real goal for airbus this next year is to sell production slots that are open for current a320 aircraft up to and including eis for the a320neo aircraft.
filed under: airline fleets by ajax no comments » (flickr)
but with the decision made, i also have to credit boeing for appearing to have decided to go all in.
it’s possible that we’ll see a real 787-10 announcement in 2012 but, if so, probably not until the latter part of the year.
they’ll be from wichita, kansas to st. louis or knoxville, tn to chicago.
expect other superlegacy airlines to take a long, hard look at this deal and begin to negotiate for their own superdeals on aircraft with both manufacturers.
the a321 was the no-brainer.
because these changes add more risk to their ability to deliver this aircraft in 2017.
for the record, i think that airbus might have just got its act together on the a380 now.
other than the ability to “concentrate” more passengers onto a single flight, the a380 doesn’t offer these airlines anything more than what they already have in their current and planned fleets.
there is maneuvering room left with those fleets.
american eagle has crj-700s that are configured from 63 to 65 seats and aa is currently scope clause limited on how many of these aircraft it can fly.
i do not think we’ll see any legacy consolidation despite wishful thinkers for a us airways / aa merger.
right now, it needs the 737-800 and it needs it now rather than later.
furthermore, both airlines have orders for airbus a320neo aircraft  already.
mcnerney acknowledges that us airways  hasn’t bought boeing in a some time and sees aa as a loyal boeing  customer as well.
filed under: trivia by ajax 4 comments » boeing has revealed more details on its definition for the 737max now and one significant revelation is the decision to add 8 inches to the nose gear.
the merged airline would, upon conclusion, have far more boeing aircraft and far more resources to service and operate boeing aircraft than airbus aircraft.
however, in this particular case this really is a formality.
need a medium range hauler?
two such examples are the convair cv-990 and the md-11.
there are only so many routes in the world and, more importantly, there are only so many airports that can accomodate the a380.
electronic bleed air will be added to improve cabin pressurization (which is much like how the a350 will use bleed air)and better means more efficient fuel burn.
the 777-200er and 777-300er killed the a340 in all forms (and eads cfo just admitted it in the press).
is that support founded on sheer love for the airline?
it’s not that i think the a350 won’t sell.
this is why you’re seeing fairly strong orders for the neo from existing airbus customers.
it needs the max but the airline also is put into an odd position in that it is likely faced with the following scenario:
i think it might be won on price and an opportunity to get re-engined aircraft just a tad earlier than airbus.
is there another order for aircraft lurking in the background here?
airbus and boeing, of course.
even if the legacy and superlegacy airlines get pilots to agree to new scope clauses that permit them to engage regional airlines for that 90 to 130 seat flying, somebody has to buy the aircraft and fly them.
they are getting closer and i do believe that china will one day manage to succeed.
embraer is considering what to do next when it comes to either re-engining its e series aircraft or building a new airliner (and i think they’ll build a stretched e195 with new engines, frankly.
because aa already has a large 737 fleet.
the 737re doesn’t have board approval to offer . . .
so why should boeing or airbus feel threatened by ryanair’s moves?
so, is a growth to 40 aircraft plus or minus a month justified?
i do think the a321neo will be the 757-ish replacement and i do not think that aa will upsize aircraft to the 737-900er down the line.
lost in the noise: pinnacle airlines and sean menke aa responds to us airways / union announcement aa unions and us airways: that cracking sound why would unions look at us airways?
instead, i think we’ll see more of the same in most respects.
the 777 was born and it was an even bigger game changer.
look at the seat numbers on these aircraft.
until the world economies recover, the best the industry can hope to do is manage its problems and earn a bit of money.
if it were to be a re engine strategy, it would have been far more encouraging to see boeing design a new wing or a modification to the wing to bring additional gains.
embraer gets close but it doesn’t quite get there.
it didn’t have enough capital to go “all in” on designs and knew it had to make its business case on flexibility which meant derivatives.
these aircraft will be on operational leases and it appears aa didn’t have to put much money down for these firms orders (if any.)
airlines will continue to make large orders for more fuel efficient narrow body aircraft.
it’s westernized, it’s flying and it does feel like its the right size.
filed under: airline fleets, airline news by ajax no comments »
but i think they’ll struggle to offering the delivery positions that united will need.
will it work for these airlines?
instead, we learn at southwest airlines’ earnings call that they were kept in the loop and . . .
in other words, buy the aircraft and engine that best fits the expected mission should be the purchase strategy we’ll see not only from american airlines but other superlegacy airlines as well.
much as the a380 is and will be.
i don’t think the decisions they are now announcing about this aircraft reflect a company that is struggling to maintain the status quo in the marketplace.
the post i composed and just deleted talked about how having a single source for your aircraft wasn’t really practical for an airline of aa’s size and all other superlegacy and legacy airlines operate mixed fleets already as a function of a merger.
timing is everything.
sooner or later, ryanair will have to make a move on a next generation 737max or a320neo.
check out what engine is on that aircraft.
the financial crisis in europe will reduce some demand on oil but i see no real economic growth in any part of the world that will drive demand either.
well, for the committed airbus customer, going deep on the a320neo isn’t quite as foolish because it is fairly obvious that airbus *won’t* have a replacement for the a320neo as soon as 2025.
the market will become flooded with cheap, relatively new “classic” single aisle airliners with a new single aisle airliner introduction.
that’s eminently possible for them to do.
simply put, delta is replacing exactly what needs replacement and not buying one aircraft more than necessary.
there is one more question lingering as well . . .
(video found on sulako’s blog)
filed under: airline news by ajax no comments »
is growth to 50 or more per month justified?
yes, that begins to look like a new airliner but it puts boeing firmly ahead in the narrow body game.
the boeing 747-400 domestic is capable of seating about 550 people in a high density layout.
it’s a delicate line they each walk.
however, the iae is reportedly the better performer for longer duration flights and it would appear that the planners at american would prefer to optimize performance of the aircraft according to its expected mission as opposed to reduce costs by having a common engine family.
this has credence due to the fact that united has about 200 aircraft that are some of the oldest around (these are 757s and 737s mostly from the original united airlines) and those aircraft are likely having a real impact on the bottom line as a result of fuel costs and maintenance.
the a319, in american airlines configuration, should have about 126 seats based on my research into how other superlegacy airlines are using the aircraft.
that leads us to another reason why that class of aircraft is needed.
if it does succeed, that success will begin in europe as well as for airlines of lesser developed areas such as the middle east, india and the far east.
however, this is a pretty big loss for boeing in the psychological warfare arena of aircraft sales.
filed under: airline fleets by ajax 1 comment » richard aboulafia of the teal group has criticized boeing and airbus plans to ramp up production on their single aisle airliners and the man has a strong point.
going trans-atlantic?
delta has 126 seats on its a319s, united has 120 seats (but with economy plus in the mix) and us airways has 124 seats.
the truth is, i think the airbus a320neo does fit ryanair’s needs a bit better these days.
the sweet spot its lineup offers will become more attractive to airlines once they see bombardier actually perform in the development and test of this aircraft.
right now, we don’t even know what the 737-re will be called and that’s kind of bad.
the lack of any other orders even getting mentioned as rumours tells us just how fast the aa deal was put together.
the sukhoi superjet, on the other hand, has a real chance, i think.
but they are going away because they are fuel inefficient and they’re getting old to boot.
a full mix of a319/320/321 aircraft with multiple bases or b) a320/a321 aircraft with focused bases i rather doubt that the a319 or the b737-700 will be ordered at all.
if it buys the 737-max, it will need to hold onto those aircraft for about 20 years.
but it offered just a touch more capacity and bit more cargo capacity and it did it with engines that were more revolution than evolution.
delta has some right old aircraft on its hands.
it could haul more passengers and cargo for the same or longer distances for less money.
that’s a lot of aircraft and it wasn’t that long ago when boeing and airbus could hardly find a buyer for the planes they were producing.
take delta, for instance.
but i think they’ll concede the need to develop a larger airliner as well.
airbus has to get its act together on the a350 and try very, very hard to prevent too much schedule slip.
current american airlines 757-200 aircraft have 182 or 189 seats depending on the mission its configured for.
filed under: airline fleets by ajax no comments » china southern received their first airbus a380
so far, they’re impressed but what they’ve seen of the 737max so far does not.
aircraft manufacturers don’t win over the long term with derivatives and i’ll point out that there have been a total of 9 major derivatives of the 737 with several sub-derivatives of those as aircraft as well.
this is a big win for cfm and its leap56 engine and while the engine is only announced for the 737re, it is almost certain that that engine will be chosen for the a320 family.
building a first time, competitive single aisle mainline aircraft requirese a body of experience that china doesn’t have.
now that airlines know what is going to happen with both the airbus a320 series and boeing 737 series aircraft, they can start shopping for that next class of aircraft that permits entry into those smaller markets cost effectively.
it wasn’t irrational for aa to go to airbus.
boeing ceo james mcnerney expressed his and boeing’s viewpoint that they support american airlines having an opportunity to exit their bankruptcy as a stand alone company.
so was engine development.
the a330 has survived because of its improved derivatives and any airline using them makes great money.
however, their arj21 is a non-starter since it is heavy and, you know, no one has really ordered it except chinese airlines who were told to order it.
yes, initial orders are high(ish) but consider this: annual production of the 737 and a320 already exceeds 800 aircraft a year.
one example is that the 737 already has winglets (aka “sharklets” on the a320).
if aa had a fully modern fleet now, it’s likely it would not have lost money this past quarter.
and a market glut of aircraft can result in depreciating demand for your new generation aircraft because the capital costs for current generation aircraft can become low enough to make sense for airlines to buy and use.
they’ll also try to flog the a380 as much as possible and may even succeed with small orders in parts of the world it hasn’t penetrated much to date.
initial orders will reflect some pent up demand to replace aircraft but it’s unlikely that the pace will continue in a sustained manner.
a new pylon and strut for engines will be used in the style of the 787 and the rear tail cone will be extended and the area above the elevator thickened to improve aerodynamics.
if aa manages to get a new pilot agreement that allows aa to subcontract its sub 150 seat flying, i’ll be rather shocked.
boeing saw the possibilities in etops and extra high by-pass engines that were more reliable than anyone could have conceived of a generation earlier.
it will maintain a large fleet of nextgen 737s for the next 10 years or more.
we know that boeing has slots but order delivery dates are somewhat murky, in my opinion.
superlegacy airlines will own enough of an aircraft/engine family to enjoy economies of scale and it is no longer necessary to try to maximize cost benefits by sticking to one aircraft type and one engine.
united already struggles to figure out what to do with its 747 aircraft (as do most us based airlines) and that’s based on the fact that people here in the united states are looking for direct, non-stop flights rather than trips that require a flight to a “hub” city first.
my guess is that we won’t see any game changer orders for any 2nd tier manufacturer such as bombardier or embraer.
now, aa has also announced that it will spin off american eagle soon and we’ll talk about that in a future post but that only means aa can (and will) access other regional airlines for its sub-100 seat flying.
through this order and previous small orders, american airlines will have upguaged their entire fleet and particularly so in the next 5 to 7 years.
this was the tough choice engineering wise.
it would require another production line and even more suppliers for airliners that are now fairly obsolete in light of the a320neo and 737max.
let’s look at the details first: the aircraft will begin arriving from both lines in 2013 and american airlines thinks it will have one of the youngest fleets in about 5 years.
it also ignores the model(s) for long haul travel over the broad spectrum in favor of trunk routes.
while i don’t expect quite the same delay as the 787 saw, it will be a significant delay and it will impact airbus.
i have a feeling that boeing might be aiming higher.
and bombardier is making the aircraft.
most believe that the status quo between the two manufacturers will be maintained.
neither really worked out that well for aa.
arguably japan has it.
i tilt towards this being boeing’s order.
i suspect that if doug parker is able to re-assure boeing over its existing  aa orders, boeing will go neutral or even supportive of such a merger.
in fact, it presently is the only airliner that does.
in fact, any worry about the 737max is kind of silly.
they’ve proven me wrong and i think the results are too good for them to not to continue over the next 12 months.
and legacy and superlegacy airlines will need them too if they don’t get their pilots to agree to revised scope clauses.
etops was changing the game at the same time, however.
with all of that said, i still think the a340 is one hell of an elegant and pretty airliner.
this won’t be revealed a la one big announcement john leahy style.
this will be about replacing older a320s, 757s and md-88/90 aircraft.
they appear to be working very hard to make every gain possible against their competitors to bring even more to the table.
you want to satisfy airlines with new aircraft but some of those who buy aircraft are lessors and you don’t want to anger them by depreciating their assets they already hold.
while you can choose from either manufacturer on both airframes, american has decided that commonality is trumped by mission performance evidently.
current demand isn’t from growth, it’s simply from the need to replace aging airliners and the thoughts of ramping up production to 50+ per month does smack of hubris.
nor do i see boeing 737 replacements coming on line either.
i firmly believe that boeing was leaning towards a new aircraft but also needed time and space to get where it needed to be with that aircraft.
but here is the real surprise for me: the a319s will have cfm engines and the a321s will have iae v2500 engines.
at least a little bit, yes.
mcnerney acknowledges that us airways hasn’t bought boeing in a some time and sees aa as a loyal boeing customer as well.
my own preference was to see boeing make a move for an entirely new aircraft with introduction into service in 2018.
in addition, boeing has and continues to support aa’s purchases for aircraft in a variety of ways.
they’re smaller and delta has that seat range covered right now.
is this support for aa an attempt to preserve the aa orders for boeing  737max aircraft?
time will only tell but it’s hard to find that many people who want to be crammed into that kind of airliner for a long haul flight at any price.
this order will be of dramatic benefit for the airline when it comes to saving on fuel.
now we see some rumour developing that united airlines is in talks to make a 200 aircraft single aisle purchase.
the cfm engines were a great choice going in but the rolls royce trents were the answer to a question that got asked a bit too late.
it’s unlikely that we see 747s retired in favor of others in this round.
look for an order announcement in the next 1 to 3 months and my bet is on a 200 to 250 aircraft order of 737s with about 100 of those coming from the 737max line.
airbus boxed boeing into this aircraft by introducing the a320neo.
furthermore, both airlines have orders for airbus a320neo aircraft already.
the a340 killed the md-11 and exposed the weaknesses of owning 747s.
they are working very, very hard to bring as much advantage as possible to the single aisle wars with airbus.
there will continue to be volatility but i don’t think we’ll see anything like 2008/2009.
about 1/3 of the a320s were delivered in the mid 1990s with the balance showing up from around 2000 and on.
filed under: aircraft development by ajax no comments »
filed under: airline fleets by ajax 1 comment » various media reports point to boeing leaning heavily towards a “minimum” investment strategy in defining what the new boeing 737 re engine would look like.
however, what makes sense for aa doesn’t necessarily make sense for another airline.
i expect we’ll see something close to 189 seats for aa’s a321s with the remaining 757-200s to be reconfigured for those long, thin trans-continental and trans-atlantic flights.
airlines such as southwest realize that a smaller airliner is probably necessary for growth now that they have the nation’s largest cities essentially covered.
well, for one, the cost to announce this order was tiny compared to a traditional order.
it didn’t need quite as many 737s.
but that would require a fleet change that would take years to accomplish and with a320neo delivery positions reaching “unobtanium” levels for the next decade, the 737max probably does offer the best option given their position.
the truth is that the emerging economies are largely dependent upon demand from both europe and north america and neither of those economies will see high growth in 2012.
i think we’ll see an order and i suspect that order may well go all to boeing.
if anything stirs in the us airline industry, i think it will be in the lcc arena
i do not see any us based orders for the a380.
in russia, the only one is domodedevo.
what people want is market competitive inflight service and the best available travel time.
why did airbus win more orders?
they are free to prove me wrong.
airbus was hampered by a bit of mcd disease and by multi-government ownership at the time.
so what does it mean?
if there is one thing boeing knows, it’s that they cannot afford to damage their credibility with airlines further with a late arrival of the 737max.
it is thought that boeing will have a slight advantage that, according to many, will remain about 2% better than airbus.
and that points out a glaring gap that i haven’t seen anyone talk about yet.
it was a beautiful approach and a real answer to what was needed at the time.
i don’t think it fits long, thin routes as well as the 787 and its planned derivatives.
airbus’ introduction of the neo made it much more imperative to deliver more efficiency now rather than a decade later.
the a319 offers a bit more flexibility on payload and range but the cseries would offer better trip costs most likely.
i would expect these to be configured with about 185 seats on anything but specially configured international aircraft.
right now, both manufacturers have deep, deep order lists.
the a340-500 derivative.
it’s learning curve with new materials and design approaches has peaked.
just look at these: (all images from flickr under their creative commons license) filed under: aircraft development, airline fleets, airline history by ajax 2 comments » ryanair says that it may buy or lease used aircraft to fill its gaps until the comac c919 arrives in 2018 with a 200 seat aircraft.
filed under: airline news by ajax no comments » spot the problem april 12, 2012 on 9:22 am | in trivia | 4 comments would anyone care to guess at the problem with this takeoff?
airbus bet on 4 engines being preferred for long haul, trans-oceanic routes and given the dominance of the 747 in that market, it wasn’t a bad bet.
the truth is, boeing will be happy to sell to o’leary and take his abuse while they do it.
we won’t see a need for production rates at 50 or more per month until a manufacturer gets off its duff and builds a new single aisle aircraft.
filed under: airline news by ajax 3 comments » 2011 wasn’t the worst year for airlines and 2012 won’t be either.
the md-80’s are departing and rightfully so.
the dirty secret about that order is that lion isn’t an airline with significant risk both in operations and financially.
in addition, boeing  has and continues to support aa’s purchases for aircraft in a variety of  ways.
recent comments ajax on frontier airlines auditions new animals r on frontier airlines auditions new animals ajax on spot the problem david on spot the problem terry on spot the problem boeing wants aa to work it out alone april 26, 2012 on 1:00 am | in  airline news | no comments boeing ceo james mcnerney expressed his and boeing’s viewpoint that  they support american airlines having an opportunity to exit their bankruptcy  as a stand alone company.
air austral, another purchaser of the airbus a380 has announced plans to fly its aircraft with seating for over 850 people.
both boeing and airbus need to find ways to preserve value on existing aircraft lines until their new generation aircraft enter into service as well.
i don’t think we’ll see much from the other regional airliners being developed.
i got asked what i thought of the a340 last week by a reader of flyingcolors and decided to give some thought to that subject and write a post.
i just think that it may come in the form of a follow on order in the next year and may well include airbus medium to long range twin aisle aircraft as well.
is this support for aa an attempt to preserve the aa orders for boeing 737max aircraft?
some speculated it would be ordered as a gap filler between aa’s 160 seat 737-800 and its largest regional jet, the crj-700 which has about 65 seats.
despite its efforts, i think we’ll see more schedule slip and it won’t reveal the entire picture as that unfolds.
airbus will be pitching the a320/a321 neos and boeing will be pitching the 737s (new and old) and it will be tough to call this one.
my greater point is that you don’t win and you don’t grow as a company by playing “keep up” and playing it safe.
filed under: uncategorized by ajax no comments »
it needs replacement aircraft for the remaining 737-300/500 aircraft in the fleet and that is being achieved with 737-800s (which replace 737-700s which then replace 737-300/500 aircraft.)
one great example is lion airways order from boeing.
us airways has 183 seats on its a321 aircraft but, again, i expect american airlines to beat that number by a few seats.
this order is about a marginal increase in capacity over time for most routes with the 757s leaving ever so slowly over time.
air india gets more money and we wonder why.
while thinking about this post, it occured to me that airbus even produced a 747-sp.
what comes in this order?
the merged  airline would, upon conclusion, have far more boeing aircraft and far more  resources to service and operate boeing aircraft than airbus aircraft.
i do not see this being about 767s or regional jet aircraft.
the capital costs are low compared to current boeing aircraft and the airliner provides close to current boeing efficiencies.
but i would also offer that i think this is highly unlikely for the near term.
i’ve always been fond of the parts bin approach to creating value for a customer and the a330/a340 development was certainly that.
the benefit in fuel savings on this order will take a while to be realized.
he mentions that what they’ve seen from the a320neo
boeing and airbus don’t make that airliner and they don’t plan to make that airliner.
american airlines is a great example and they’ve made their order.
this only makes sense as the gains are more than enough to justify the purchases and now is the time to gain an advantage in bargaining with both boeing and airbus.
at the end of the day, most airlines prefer to see results over having a grand announcement.
that’s an aircraft that has run its course without something game changing.
furthermore, it even gives boeing an “in” with the us airways  executive team that it has not had for some time.
yes, it has made a few airlines some good money.
an airliner series with practical passenger capacities ranging from 90 to 130 seats is just what these airlines need.
something like that becomes much more likely in 2013.
they’ll hang on for a bit longer
they’ll be the routes they are today and the routes we see developing even now.
if airbus has slots, it will get orders.
on the other hand, neither will the 747-8i.
i liked the slender appearance of the widebody fuselage and i liked the four engines and how they were hung on the wing in a proportion that just seemed a bit sexier than other 4 engine aircraft.
boeing will simply add more and more substantiation to their claims as they continue discussions with airlines.
so i’m not sure why o’leary wants to make an enemy of boeing.
airbus can’t build more even faster to meet the demand on the a320neo even with some airlines orders going away.
i think american airlines will plod through its bankruptcy in 2012 with a bit of scandal here and there.
more likely, airbus wouldn’t roll such an aircraft out until 2030.
boeing one ups airbus over the next 20 years with its product line up and does it in a way that has the gaps covered in distance, capacity and service.
embraer has got a nice grip on the regional airliner business but it also has a problem in that, right now, there is no growth path into a larger plane for purchasers.