boeing offered up top program officials while eads offered up two american  crewmen from its test flight program, a pilot and a boom operator.
the company is working with its supply chain to determine if and when this  can be achieved.
at least 100 people lined farnborough road adjacent the airport with binoculars and telephoto cameras to watch the landing.
we filed reports exclusively for kiro tv (cbs) in seattle.
there was one significant order today, from virgin america for 40+20 airbus  a320s with options to convert to a321 and to use sharklets.
we’ll update this  post at the end of the day.
read more…categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier tags: 737, a320, airbus, boeing, bombardier, cseries update, aug. 1: dominic gates of the seattle times has a long article with the views on the 777 successor from tim clark, ceo of emirates airlines–which operates more 777s than any other airlines.
farnborough air show
but the speculation continues hot-and-heavy about the failure of bombardier  to announce an order from qatar.
read more… categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier tags:  farnborough air show farnborough/wednesday july 20, 2010 4 comments note: we have updated the tuesday posting at the end of  that column.
read more…categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier, comac, embraer tags: farnborough air show the boeing 787 arrived today at the farnborough air show, a day before the event actually begins.
leahy also predicted orders from leasing companies, signaling improving economies.
read more…categories: air force tanker, boeing, bombardier, eads, pratt & whitney tags: farnborough air show updates throughout the post, 415pm bst.
we filed reports exclusively for kiro tv (cbs)  in seattle.
these stories are: these stories are below the jump.
read more… categories: boeing tags: boeing, boeing 787,  farnborough air show farnborough/sunday-eads july 17, 2010 leave a comment we’re at the farnborough air show and on saturday attended the  day-long eads media briefings.
eads was an interactive briefing with reporters after a few brief remarks, with nearly the entire session devoted to q&a. read more…categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing tags: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, eads, farnborough air show updated, wednesday 05:00
boeing thinks that if leahy is predicting 130, he’s got a lot more up his sleeve.
read more… categories: airbus, boeing tags: 777, a350, airbus,  boeing, farnborough air show, jim albaugh, john leahy farnborough: odds and ends july 22, 2010 6 comments best one-liner: airbus’ john leahy is famous for his witty one-liners, but the best  one at the show goes to boeing’s randy tinseth.
a regular at air shows, the plane was parked right outside the media center.
from the buzz, it sounds like this could a boeing day.
bombardier  didn’t announce any cseries orders, but then, we knew by july 12 this was  unlikely.
over the course  of the next week or so, we’ll pick write some additional stuff.
reskinning the 777 would be  a massive undertaking and essentially amount to an entirely new airplane.
but the speculation continues hot-and-heavy about the failure of bombardier to announce an order from qatar.
read more… categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier, comac,  embraer tags: farnborough air show farnborough/sunday-boeing july 18, 2010 5 comments the boeing 787 arrived today at the farnborough air show, a day before the  event actually begins.
for all practical purposes for commercial aviation geeks, the air show is over.
leahy also predicted orders from leasing companies, signaling  improving economies.
the possibilities include and entirely new aircraft; re-winging the -300er; putting new engines on; and putting a composite fuselage on the airplane.
said tinseth, virtually giggling: “they don’t wash it because they’re afraid one of the logos will come off,” suggesting a cancellation.
oems are loath to talk about customers.
these stories are: airbus predicts 130+ orders at the air show; leahy says airbus has to get current programs right before proceding with  decision whether to re-engine the a320 family; decision due in 4th quarter; boeing defense facing growing competition from eads; eads sees “fair and open” competition for kc-x; eads chief raps “unfair” wto.
join 998 other followers get every new post delivered to your inbox.
the company is working with its supply chain to determine if and when this can be achieved.
the plane, #3–the so-called “interior airplane” equipped with an interior that is more suitable for testing operations than representative of the actual 787 customer interior–arrived at 9 am uk time, after a 9 hour flight from paine field at everett (wa).
bst we’ve updated this posting after all the text with orders completed  through day 2, original post: tuesday will be another day where orders are expected to be announced.
it clearly hadn’t been scrubbed down for looks, with dirt streaks all over the fuselage.
reskinning the 777 would be a massive undertaking and essentially amount to an entirely new airplane.
read more…categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier tags: farnborough air show note: we have updated the tuesday posting at the end of that column.
update, 8:00 pm bst: day 3 orders are now included toward  the end of this post.
another day, another set of aircraft orders are expected.
boeing thinks that if leahy is predicting 130, he’s got a lot more  up his sleeve.
airbus john leahy on saturday predicted at least 130 orders will be announced this week.
see our monday posting, updated at 4pm for this information.
here is a look ahead for monday at the farnborough air show and what might  be expected for news and orders in the coming week.
as many news stories report, qatar’s  abkar al baker said there is an issue with pratt & whitney yet to be  resolved and, from our discussions, we know there is and have a general idea  what it’s about.
the latter point is a bit of an eyebrow-raiser.
boeing commercial airplanes ceo jim albaugh gave us this number during our interview with him at the farnborough air show.
pratt & whitney we will be attending a breakfast hosted by pratt & whitney; perhaps we  can get some information about the issues qatar reports in connection with its  potential cseries order.
boeing offered up top program officials while eads offered up two american crewmen from its test flight program, a pilot and a boom operator.
read more…categories: airbus, boeing tags:
over the course of the next week or so, we’ll pick write some additional stuff.
bst we’ve updated this posting after all the text with orders completed through day 2, original post: tuesday will be another day where orders are expected to be announced.
alas, we were told off the record (damn!) and cannot share it here.
update, 8:00 pm bst: day 3 orders are now included toward the end of this post.
original post: boeing is considering going to a production rate of 40 737s per month, with a decision to come in september.
original post: boeing has a wide-open mind about how to meet the competition coming from the airbus 350-1000 to its 777-300er, says jim albaugh, president of boeing commercial airplanes.
read more…categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier tags: airbus, boeing, bombardier, cseries, eads, qatar boeing and eads held tanker briefings this week–monday for boeing, tuesday for eads.
we’ll update this post at the end of the day.
there was one significant order today, from virgin america for 40+20 airbus a320s with options to convert to a321 and to use sharklets.
even john leahy left.
read more…categories: boeing tags: boeing, boeing 787, farnborough air show we’re at the farnborough air show and on saturday attended the day-long eads media briefings.
separately, word leaked from farnborough that boeing will get an order fo 20 777s, but this is a swap from the failing dae capital of dubai.
the logos of the a380 customers at the front of the airplane were equally covered in dirt.
the plane, #3–the so-called “interior airplane” equipped  with an interior that is more suitable for testing operations than  representative of the actual 787 customer interior–arrived at 9 am uk  time, after a 9 hour flight from paine field at everett (wa).
the logos of the a380 customers at the  front of the airplane were equally covered in dirt.
it clearly hadn’t been scrubbed down for looks, with  dirt streaks all over the fuselage.
see  our monday posting, updated at 4pm for this information.
it stood in sharp contrast to the new boeing 787 parked just yards away from the a380, in its shiney white paint.
below are the orders through day 4, minus a couple of minor ones due after we left the field to wrap up our reporting before going home.
boeing’s briefing was a standard presentation followed by q&a; most of the briefing was taken up by the formal presentation.
boeing considers 40/mo for 737 rate; airbus ups a320 to 40 july  28, 2010 28 comments update, july 30: airbus announced today it will increase  the production rate on its a320 family to 40 per month.
read more…categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, bombardier, eads, pratt & whitney tags: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, eads, farnborough air show enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
separately, word leaked from farnborough that boeing will get an order fo  20 777s, but this is a swap from the failing dae capital of dubai.
read more… categories: air force tanker, boeing, bombardier,  eads, pratt & whitney tags: farnborough air show farnborough/monday july 18, 2010 12 comments updates throughout the post, 415pm bst.
as we were waiting for the boeing press briefing to begin on day 1, we remarked how dirty the airbus a380 test plane was.
read more…categories: airbus, boeing tags: 777, a350, airbus, boeing, farnborough air show, jim albaugh, john leahy best one-liner: airbus’
join 998 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
no slouch himself, he retorted the 787 was so clean because it hasn’t flown much.
as we were waiting for  the boeing press briefing to begin on day 1, we remarked how dirty the airbus  a380 test plane was.
said tinseth, virtually giggling: “they don’t wash it because  they’re afraid one of the logos will come off,” suggesting a  cancellation.
original post: boeing is considering going to a production rate of 40 737s per month, with  a decision to come in september.
read more… categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier tags: 737,  a320, airbus, boeing, bombardier, cseries boeing wide-open on 777 future: albaugh july 27, 2010 73 comments update, aug. 1: dominic gates  of the seattle  times has a long article with the views on the 777 successor from tim  clark, ceo of emirates airlines–which operates more 777s than any other  airlines.
from the buzz, it  sounds like this could a boeing day.
eads was an interactive briefing with reporters after a few brief remarks,  with nearly the entire session devoted to q&a. read more… categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing tags:  air force tanker, airbus, boeing, eads, farnborough air show farnborough/tuesday july 19, 2010 1 comment updated, wednesday 05:00
it stood in sharp contrast  to the new boeing 787 parked just yards away from the a380, in its shiney white  paint.
update, july 30: airbus announced today it will increase the production rate on its a320 family to 40 per month.
pratt & whitney we will be attending a breakfast hosted by pratt & whitney; perhaps we can get some information about the issues qatar reports in connection with its potential cseries order.
bombardier didn’t announce any cseries orders, but then, we knew by july 12 this was unlikely.
original post: boeing has a wide-open mind about how to meet the competition coming from  the airbus 350-1000 to its 777-300er, says jim albaugh, president of boeing  commercial airplanes.
the possibilities include and entirely new aircraft; re-winging the -300er;  putting new engines on; and putting a composite fuselage on the airplane.
oems are loath to talk about  customers.
at least 100  people lined farnborough road adjacent the airport with binoculars and  telephoto cameras to watch the landing.
boeing’s briefing was a standard presentation followed by q&a; most  of the briefing was taken up by the formal presentation.
“and you can quote me on that.”
read more… categories: airbus, boeing tags: farnborough air show farnborough/thursday july 22, 2010 3 comments for all practical purposes for commercial aviation geeks, the air show is  over.
read more… categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing,  bombardier, eads, pratt & whitney tags: air force tanker, airbus, boeing,  eads, farnborough air show older entries
airbus john leahy on saturday predicted at least 130 orders will be announced this  week.
no slouch himself, he retorted the 787 was so  clean because it hasn’t flown much.
these stories are below the jump.
here is a look ahead for monday at the farnborough air show and what might be expected for news and orders in the coming week.
boeing commercial airplanes ceo jim albaugh gave us this number during our  interview with him at the farnborough air show.
john leahy is famous for his witty one-liners, but the best one at the show goes to boeing’s randy tinseth.
boeing announced a minor order swap involving three airplanes.
as many news stories report, qatar’s abkar al baker said there is an issue with pratt & whitney yet to be resolved and, from our discussions, we know there is and have a general idea what it’s about.
we told the story to one of airbus’ top pr people, who grudgenly acknowleged it was a great line.
see individual companies below.
a regular at air shows, the plane was parked right outside  the media center.
below are the orders through day 4, minus a couple of minor ones due after  we left the field to wrap up our reporting before going home.
read more… categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier tags: airbus,  boeing, bombardier, cseries, eads, qatar tanker face off at farnborough july 20, 2010 63 comments boeing and eads held tanker briefings this week–monday for boeing,  tuesday for eads.
we told the story to one of airbus’ top pr people, who grudgenly  acknowleged it was a great line.