the meeting was scheduled before a flurry of press activity following the  unauthorized release ofa study by deloitte consulting about washington’s  aerospace competitiveness anda second study about boeing’s impact on the  puget sound (the greater seattle area) economy.
we knew he was working on a piece–we’re quoted extensively in it–but did not know who else he was talking to.
we were the speaker today (april 22) at a meeting of the economic development council of snohomish county, which is the county in washington state where boeing’s everett wide-body production facility is located.
categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, eads, northrop tags: air  force tanker, boeing, kc-x, northrop replacing the a320, 737 april 28, 2009 3 comments we attended the joint anouncement april 28 by boeing and cfm international
except for the  possibility of re-engining the 737 with the pratt & whitney geared turbo  fan (a prospect that was only evaluated and not forecast in our ae piece), we  were right on the money.
bottom line: there is something wrong in washington where new business  avoids this state.
here  are some thoughts ahead of the release.
for the kc-767 vs. the  northrop kc-30.
there  ought to be discussion about the 2009 funding gap and how funding is beginning  to look in 2010.read more… categories: boeing tags: boeing,  boeing 1q09
the 737′s aerodynamics were pretty clean to begin with, so getting a 1% airframe gain in fuel burn was probably about as good as could be expected.
read more… categories: airbus, boeing tags: airbus, aircraft  production, boeing boeing will leave seattle: prediction april 22, 2009 14 comments update, april 27: it has been pointed out to us that the  everett herald wrote that we advocated changing and cutting unemployment  insurance and taxes during our speech to the economic development council of  snohomish county.
followers (including this column) of thompson, who is quoted frequently as a defense expert, respect his thinking but can’t help be a little baffled on this program.
update, may 3: us rep. john murtha (d-pa), chair of a house appropriations committee, has  dropped (for the moment)
defending the kc-30 award after it was given.
categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, eads, northrop tags: air force tanker, boeing, kc-x, northrop we attended the joint anouncement april 28 by boeing and cfm international for the enhancements to the 737ng, something we had forecast in an article for aviation and the environment magazineway back in december.
the deloitte study concluded washington is not competitive with texas,  kansas and some other southern states due to its business climate deficiencies,  labor issues and other factors.
our view on the two studies is this: we don’t really care whether  deloitte has done work for boeing in the past or not, or if some boeing talking  points were included in the study (which, generally, seems to be true).
this illustrates the challenges boeing has in tweaking the 737 without a  re-engining before going to an all-new airplane.
more information may be  found here.
check it out (under  “pro”) right here: http://apps.leg.wa.gov/documents/billdocs/2005-06/pdf/bill%20reports/senate/2255.sbr.pdf update, april 24: bryan corliss wrote a five page article  for the may issue of seattle business monthly that just hit the web.
the washington state labor council and the national headquarters of the international association of machinists (iam local 751 represents thousands of boeing workers in puget sound) dismissed the veracity of the deloitte study because deloitte has done work for boeing in the past.
airbus is hoping for up to 5%  fuel burn improvements for the a320 enhancements, but boeing told us some time  ago these would only at best match the 737 and not better it (airbus probably  would take a different view).
in response to an analyst question on the boeing earnings call, ceo jim mcnerney said a decision on ramping up 787 production beyond the goal of 10/mo (ie, this effectively means a second production line) will be made about a year from now.
oversales of the 737 have been a key element in boeing being able to  maintain current production levels of 31/mo, despite the global recession.
here are our stories from commercial aviation online about the boeing 737 refresh.
the meeting was scheduled before a flurry of press activity following the unauthorized release ofa study by deloitte consulting about washington’s aerospace competitiveness anda second study about boeing’s impact on the puget sound (the greater seattle area) economy.
based on preliminary information received from boeing on the impact of the overall boeing 787 program delay to american’s delivery positions due to the strike in 2008, the company read more…categories: boeing tags: 787, american airlines, boeing enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
join 998 other followers get every new post delivered to your inbox.
and now, a plug for our eco-aviation conference.
the validity of the wrc study was discounted by a close observer of boeing  because wrc officials have previous connections to boeing.
oversales of the 737 have been a key element in boeing being able to maintain current production levels of 31/mo, despite the global recession.
“this move will likely happen in phases, with new programs … established elsewhere and the 787 line shifting locations.”
read more… categories: boeing tags: 737 enhancements, 737ng,  boeing, southwest airlines and 737 enhancements production assessment, round 3 april 23, 2009 1 comment some interesting items came out of the boeings 1q09 earnings call yesterday  (april 22) with regard to production and deferrals.
corliss knows boeing as well as any local reporter.
what we did say is that we agreed with county executive aaron reardon’s characterization that a change by the legislature in 2005 to the 2003 boeing 787 incentive plan was “bait-and-switch.”
the article, entitled“boeing, boeing…gone,” is an excellent analysis of the current state of affairs in the perennial controversy over the issues involved in boeing staying in puget sound or moving elsewhere.
categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, eads, northrop tags: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, kc-x, northrop, robert gates american airlines revealed the following in its 10q quarterly report about the provisional order with boeing for the 787: in 2008, the company entered into a new purchase agreement with boeing for the acquisition of 42 boeing 787-9 aircraft.
the second study was by the  washington research council (wrc).
here is the link to the  1q09 pdf slide show that goes with the earnings.
he’s been all over the map on this procurement.
the  article, entitled“boeing, boeing…gone,” is an excellent  analysis of the current state of affairs in the perennial controversy over the  issues involved in boeing staying in puget sound or moving elsewhere.
he covered the company for years for the everett herald, leaving when he obtained a fellowship at new york’s columbia university.
read more… categories: airbus, boeing tags: airbus, boeing,  funding gap gates on split tanker buy: over my dead body april 20, 2009 1  comment us defense secretary robert gates said there will be a split buy on the  kc-x tanker program over his dead body.
michelle dunlop succeeded corliss, who returned to the seattle area after  conclusion of his columbia work to resume his coverage of boeing for other  publications.
read more…categories: boeing tags: boeing, boeing 737, cfm international, southwest airlines update, may 4: veto threat over split tanker effort: read all about it.
based on preliminary information received from boeing on the impact  of the overall boeing 787 program delay to american’s delivery positions  due to the strike in 2008, the company read more… categories: boeing tags: 787, american airlines,  boeing older entries
on  the year-end 2008 earnings call in january, ceo jim mcnerney acknowledged that  oversales for 2009 had been reduced to about 15% over the production (which  mathematically equated to about 55-56 737s).
“i’m laying my body down across the tracks,” aviation  week quotes as saying inthis short article.
read more…categories: airbus, boeing tags: airbus, boeing, funding gap us defense secretary robert gates said there will be a split buy on the kc-x tanker program over his dead body.
supporting  the boeing protest.
the two tankers are differently sized: some missions are better suited for the kc-767 and some are better suited for the kc-30.
we note that other observers touched on virtually the identical points and came to the identical conclusions we discussed in our edc presentation below.
loren thompson, the defense analyst, now favors a split  buy.
we were the speaker today (april 22) at a meeting of the economic  development council of snohomish county, which is the county in washington  state where boeing’s everett wide-body production facility is located.
here is the link to the 1q09 pdf slide show that goes with the earnings.
thompson’s rationale is what we’ve been advocating since we began following the competition several years ago: split the buy for operational reasons.
original post: tomorrow (april 22) is the release of boeing’s 1q09 earnings.
more information may be found here.
as  was previously acknowledged by boeing, 2009 737 oversales were about 100.
a big defender of the boeing kc-767 lease deal when that was on the table.
nowdicks is back on his sole-source band wagon (for boeing), even thoughboeing now is fine with the idea.
as for the wrc study, the conclusions contained therein are probably sound.
it’s not robert gates
as of  this moment, we don’t expect anything new on this front, either.
there was only one  business in washington that testified in support of this restoration of  benefits.
april 30, 2009 leave a comment here are our stories from commercial aviation online about the boeing 737  refresh.
someone will try to get guidance about 2010 rates.
the underlying thesis that washington hasn’t attracted significant new aerospace business is indisputably true and most if not all of the statistical data comparing states-to-states is publicly available.
loren thompson, the defense analyst, now favors a split buy.
there is a problem (a challenging business climate), solutions need to be found or there could be ramifications (the prospect of boeing leaving puget sound in whole or in part).
the agreement also includes purchase rights to acquire  up to 58 additional boeing 787 aircraft, with deliveries between 2015 and  2020.
for the kc-767 vs. the northrop kc-30.
the washington state labor council and the  national headquarters of the international association of machinists (iam local  751 represents thousands of boeing workers in puget sound) dismissed the  veracity of the deloitte study because deloitte has done work for boeing in the  past.
(how this is interpreted may be a different and legitimate issue of debate.)
original post: well, blow us down.
note: this is a 2,400 word report.
the agreement also includes purchase rights to acquire up to 58 additional boeing 787 aircraft, with deliveries between 2015 and 2020.
his effort to insert into the fy2010 budget language  requiring a split buy between boeing and northrop for the kc-x tanker.
his effort to insert into the fy2010 budget language requiring a split buy between boeing and northrop for the kc-x tanker.
we took no position on the then-pending legislation in washington state.
thompson’s rationale is what we’ve been advocating since we  began following the competition several years ago: split the buy for  operational reasons.
earnings eco-aviation conference may 27 april 21, 2009 leave a comment more details on the conference may be found here.
boeing wasn’t able to increase passenger shoulder width comfort because the fuselage width is what it is, but there is more headroom space with the redesigned bins and the lighting is much more pleasant.
the stories speak for themselves, and one of them gives the reaction of  southwest airlines, boeing’s biggest 737 customer.
update, may 3: us rep. john murtha (d-pa), chair of a house appropriations committee, has dropped (for the moment)
our view on the two studies is this: we don’t really care whether deloitte has done work for boeing in the past or not, or if some boeing talking points were included in the study (which, generally, seems to be true).
on the other hand, us rep. norm dicks (d-boeing/wa), claims he was quoted out of context by kiro tv a while back, which reported dicks could “live with” a split buy.
cfm likewise has a pretty efficient cfm 56, so another 1% was probably as good as it gets, too.
there was only one business in washington that testified in support of this restoration of benefits.
“over the next 10 years, (boeing commercial airplanes) will move  to southern states with weaker unions and right-to-work laws that diminish  union power,” aboulafia wrote in a briefing.
(how this is interpreted  may be a different and legitimate issue of debate.)
expected this year because the funding gap is larger than thought.
check it out (under “pro”) right here: http://apps.leg.wa.gov/documents/billdocs/2005-06/pdf/bill%20reports/senate/2255.sbr.pdf update, april 24: bryan corliss wrote a five page article for the may issue of seattle business monthly that just hit the web.
for the enhancements to the 737ng, something we had forecast in an article for  aviation and the environment magazineway back in december.
michelle dunlop succeeded corliss, who returned to the seattle area after conclusion of his columbia work to resume his coverage of boeing for other publications.
the two tankers are differently sized: some missions are  better suited for the kc-767 and some are better suited for the kc-30.
the nature of the solutions are the proverbial devil in the details.
join 998 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
update, april 23: michelle dunlop of the everett herald, in her reporting of our edc appearance, inserted this little reminder: last fall, during the machinists’ strike, analyst richard aboulafia, with the teal group, predicted a boeing exodus over the next decade.
whether this study, or the deloitte report, are orchestrated efforts by boeing to send a message to the legislature is hardly the point.
“over the next 10 years, (boeing commercial airplanes) will move to southern states with weaker unions and right-to-work laws that diminish union power,” aboulafia wrote in a briefing.
in response to an analyst question on the  boeing earnings call, ceo jim mcnerney said a decision on ramping up 787  production beyond the goal of 10/mo (ie, this effectively means a second  production line) will be made about a year from now.
the second study was by the washington research council (wrc).
corliss knows boeing as well as any  local reporter.
on the year-end 2008 earnings call in january, ceo jim mcnerney acknowledged that oversales for 2009 had been reduced to about 15% over the production (which mathematically equated to about 55-56 737s).
read more…categories: airbus, boeing tags: airbus, aircraft production, boeing update, april 27: it has been pointed out to us that the everett herald wrote that we advocated changing and cutting unemployment insurance and taxes during our speech to the economic development council of snohomish county.
there is a problem (a  challenging business climate), solutions need to be found or there could be  ramifications (the prospect of boeing leaving puget sound in whole or in part).
the validity of the wrc study was discounted by a close observer of boeing because wrc officials have previous connections to boeing.
double the procurement, retire the old kc-135s more quickly.
what we did say is that we agreed with county  executive aaron reardon’s characterization that a change by the  legislature in 2005 to the 2003 boeing 787 incentive plan was  “bait-and-switch.”
our personal observations: the new interior, with 787 features, is a major  improvement over those in today’s 737s (and airbus a320s) from a  passenger perspective.
do not look for any announcement on rate reductions of the 737.
nowdicks is back on his sole-source band wagon (for  boeing), even thoughboeing now is fine with the idea.
per the purchase agreement, and before delays due to the recent boeing strike as discussed below, the first such aircraft is scheduled to be delivered in 2012, and the last is scheduled to be delivered in 2018.
this concurrence apparently led the paper to conclude we supported the change proposed this year.
read more… categories: boeing tags: boeing, boeing 737, cfm  international, southwest airlines tankers: to split or not to split april 30, 2009 2 comments update, may 4: veto threat over split tanker effort: read  all about it.
on the other hand, us rep. norm dicks (d-boeing/wa), claims he was quoted  out of context by kiro tv a while back, which reported dicks could “live  with” a split buy.
this concurrence apparently led the paper to  conclude we supported the change proposed this year.
whether this study, or the deloitte report, are orchestrated efforts by boeing  to send a message to the legislature is hardly the point.
bottom line: there is something wrong in washington where new business avoids this state.
but you get the point.
the deloitte study concluded washington is not competitive with texas, kansas and some other southern states due to its business climate deficiencies, labor issues and other factors.
categories:  eco-aviation tags: eco-aviation conference more on the funding gap april 21, 2009 leave a comment a calyon bank official said at the annual airfinance journal conference  that airbus and boeing may have to increase funding more than the companies
the  underlying thesis that washington hasn’t attracted significant new  aerospace business is indisputably true and most if not all of the statistical  data comparing states-to-states is publicly available.
“i’m laying my body down across the tracks,” aviation week quotes as saying inthis short article.
the stories speak for themselves, and one of them gives the reaction of southwest airlines, boeing’s biggest 737 customer.
calyon has been one of the most active lenders worldwide.
update, april 23: michelle dunlop of the everett herald,  in her reporting of our edc appearance, inserted this little reminder: last fall, during the machinists’ strike, analyst richard  aboulafia, with the teal group, predicted a boeing exodus over the next decade.
the washington state labor council wrote us with this information about the  2005 change: ehb 2255 was the bill in 2005 that restored ui benefits  from four-quarter averaging (which it was changed to as part of the 2003 7e7  incentive package, a significant cut of up to $200/week for some workers) back  to two-quarter averaging where it was prior to 2003.
cfm likewise has a pretty efficient cfm 56, so another 1% was probably as good  as it gets, too.
whether it is or isn’t don’t expect any  announcement tomorrow.
this  bloomberg story has the details.
we took no position on the then-pending  legislation in washington state.
this illustrates the challenges boeing has in tweaking the 737 without a re-engining before going to an all-new airplane.
we note that other observers touched  on virtually the identical points and came to the identical conclusions we  discussed in our edc presentation below.
supporting the boeing protest.
boeing wasn’t able to increase passenger shoulder  width comfort because the fuselage width is what it is, but there is more  headroom space with the redesigned bins and the lighting is much more pleasant.
the washington state labor council wrote us with this information about the 2005 change:ehb 2255 was the bill in 2005 that restored ui benefits from four-quarter averaging (which it was changed to as part of the 2003 7e7 incentive package, a significant cut of up to $200/week for some workers) back to two-quarter averaging where it was prior to 2003.
there continues to be speculation that boeing capital corp. will have to  do more customer financing ($1bn) than has previously been announced.
anyway, here are the stories we did for cao.
here are some thoughts ahead of the release.
more details on the conference may be found here.
the 737′s aerodynamics were pretty clean to begin with, so getting a  1% airframe gain in fuel burn was probably about as good as could be expected.
read more… categories: boeing tags: boeing, boeing production,  snohomish county ahead of boeing earnings april 21, 2009 1 comment update, april 22: here is the link to boeing’s 1q09 earnings.
there continues to be a lot of speculation that the 737 rate  will be reduced soon.
followers (including this column) of thompson, who is quoted frequently as  a defense expert, respect his thinking but can’t help be a little baffled  on this program.
double  the procurement, retire the old kc-135s more quickly.
airbus is hoping for up to 5% fuel burn improvements for the a320 enhancements, but boeing told us some time ago these would only at best match the 737 and not better it (airbus probably would take a different view).
a big defender of the  boeing kc-767 lease deal when that was on the table.
except for the possibility of re-engining the 737 with the pratt & whitney geared turbo fan (a prospect that was only evaluated and not forecast in our ae piece), we were right on the money.
categories: eco-aviation tags: eco-aviation conference a calyon bank official said at the annual airfinance journal conference that airbus and boeing may have to increase funding more than the companies expected this year because the funding gap is larger than thought.
“this move will likely  happen in phases, with new programs … established elsewhere and the 787  line shifting locations.”
our personal observations: the new interior, with 787 features, is a major improvement over those in today’s 737s (and airbus a320s) from a passenger perspective.
read more…categories: boeing tags: 737 enhancements, 737ng, boeing, southwest airlines and 737 enhancements some interesting items came out of the boeings 1q09 earnings call yesterday (april 22) with regard to production and deferrals.
per the purchase agreement,  and before delays due to the recent boeing strike as discussed below, the first  such aircraft is scheduled to be delivered in 2012, and the last is scheduled  to be delivered in 2018.
boeing  previously announced reductions of the 777 line and freezing rates of the 747  and 767 lines.
we knew  he was working on a piece–we’re quoted extensively in it–but  did not know who else he was talking to.
this bloomberg story has the details.
read more…categories: boeing tags: boeing, boeing production, snohomish county update, april 22: here is the link to boeing’s 1q09 earnings.
categories: air  force tanker, airbus, boeing, eads, northrop tags: air force tanker, airbus,  boeing, kc-x, northrop, robert gates american’s 787 deal april 16, 2009 4 comments american airlines revealed the following in its 10q quarterly report about  the provisional order with boeing for the 787: in 2008, the company entered into a new purchase agreement with boeing for  the acquisition of 42 boeing 787-9 aircraft.
he covered the company for years for the everett herald,  leaving when he obtained a fellowship at new york’s columbia university.
as was previously acknowledged by boeing, 2009 737 oversales were about 100.