scorm is looking at something different in that area, and we'll evaluate what  they do.
we want computers to deliver guidance, assess progress, and adapt the learning path to results, and we don't want a separate proprietary cbt system for simulations.
read the interview with aviation industry cbt (computer based  training) commitee's chairman below to gain better understanding.
so the three companies, some airlines, and a couple of  cbt vendors got together and formed the aicc.
the interview  was made by the newsletter "news and views" with jack hyde, chairman  aicc cmi (computer managed instruction) subcommittee (www.aicc.org).
when the internet came along, we created a way to manage instruction over the internet.
that's how we want to keep it.
non-certified products may only claim they are 'designed to aicc specifications'.
jack hyde: the aicc uses independent laboratories to certify that  products and content conform to our specifications.
not just the aviation industry, but also the energy industry, the military, pharmaceutical companies - everyone, really.
archive   > elearning, boeing and airbus articles 28 march 2003
right now, we are compatible with scorm but our stuff goes further in  some areas to meet aviation training needs.
so the three companies, some airlines, and a couple of cbt vendors got together and formed the aicc.
news and views: thanks, jack!
no one complains when that happens  in a fifteen-million dollar flight simulator, but people wonder why you need an  instructor sitting by every learner in front of a five-thousand dollar  workstation.
we want computers to deliver guidance, assess progress, and adapt  the learning path to results, and we don't want a separate proprietary cbt  system for simulations.
jack hyde: lots of people use our specifications to support web-based training, what we call computer managed instruction.
no one complains when that happens in a fifteen-million dollar flight simulator, but people wonder why you need an instructor sitting by every learner in front of a five-thousand dollar workstation.
we're still doing new stuff, for example defining ways for simulations to  interoperate with cbt.
we have  a way to define learning paths based on learning objectives and prerequisites.
what on earth does computer based training (cbt) of pilots and airplane  engineers have to do with what is going on in the learning technology  standardisation?
we're still doing new stuff, for example defining ways for simulations to interoperate with cbt.
right now, we are compatible with scorm but our stuff goes further in some areas to meet aviation training needs.
jack hyde: the aicc uses independent laboratories to certify that products and content conform to our specifications.
when the  internet came along, we created a way to manage instruction over the internet.
jack hyde: scorm uses parts of our specifications, and the key  communication piece was developed at a joint meeting that we sponsored.
news and views: what about plain old web-based training?
jack hyde: in 1988, airbus, boeing, and mcdonald-douglas were providing dos-based cbt (computer based training), but the same hardware - graphics cards and the like - could not be used for training programs from different manufacturers.
http://www.thecommonplace.net
non-certified products may only claim they are  'designed to aicc specifications'.
home > interoperability  >
the point was to make aviation  cbt run on a single standardized platform.
jack hyde: scorm uses parts of our specifications, and the key communication piece was developed at a joint meeting that we sponsored.
jack hyde: in 1988, airbus, boeing, and mcdonald-douglas were  providing dos-based cbt (computer based training), but the same hardware -  graphics cards and the like - could not be used for training programs from  different manufacturers.
http://www.thecommonplace.net copyright 2002
jack hyde: lots of people use our specifications to support  web-based training, what we call computer managed instruction.
not just the  aviation industry, but also the energy industry, the military, pharmaceutical  companies - everyone, really.
jack hyde: self-directed discovery learning takes too long and can reinforce bad habits, so when simulations are used in aviation training, there is usually an instructor with the learner.
news and views: can you explain that?
jack hyde: self-directed discovery learning takes too long and can  reinforce bad habits, so when simulations are used in aviation training, there  is usually an instructor with the learner.
news and views: aicc stands for aviation industry cbt committee.
we have a way to define learning paths based on learning objectives and prerequisites.
lots of products are certified and we have had  more downloads this year than in any previous year.
certified products have the  right to display the aicc logo.
reprinted with permission courtesy of the commonplace.
lots of products are certified and we have had more downloads this year than in any previous year.
news and views: where does scorm fit in with the aicc?
scorm is looking at something different in that area, and we'll evaluate what they do.
the commonplace elearning, boeing  and airbus  boeing, airbus and elearning - doesn't sound like a logical match  at all!
certified products have the right to display the aicc logo.
news and views: certified?
the point was to make aviation cbt run on a single standardized platform.