there was one significant order today, from virgin america for 40+20 airbus  a320s with options to convert to a321 and to use sharklets.
airbus’ end-of-show brief was a very useful wrap; boeing might want  to follow suit at future shows.
alas, it was none of these.
for the record, we don’t consider the dubai aerospace enterprise to be a “farnborough” order.
read more…categories: air force tanker, boeing, bombardier, eads, pratt & whitney tags: farnborough air show updates throughout the post, 415pm bst.
we filed reports exclusively for kiro tv (cbs)  in seattle.
read more… categories: boeing tags: boeing, boeing 787,  farnborough air show farnborough/sunday-eads july 17, 2010 leave a comment we’re at the farnborough air show and on saturday attended the  day-long eads media briefings.
update, wednesday morning: this blog site keeps a running tally of orders.
other highlights from the airbus conference: tom williams, evp-head of programs, called bombardier’s launch of the cseries a “brave thing.”
eads was an interactive briefing with reporters after a few brief remarks, with nearly the entire session devoted to q&a. read more…categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing tags: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, eads, farnborough air show updated, wednesday 05:00
cathay pacific airways would order the a380 and a350.
boeing thinks that if leahy is predicting 130, he’s got a lot more up his sleeve.
this tally is also airbus’ second best farnborough air show, following the one two years ago when 280 orders were announced.
boeing will hold a full tanker briefing wednesday.
a regular at air shows, the plane was parked right outside the media center.
this item for marketwatch pretty well sums it up.
bombardier  didn’t announce any cseries orders, but then, we knew by july 12 this was  unlikely.
reskinning the 777 would be  a massive undertaking and essentially amount to an entirely new airplane.
read more… categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier, comac,  embraer tags: farnborough air show farnborough/sunday-boeing july 18, 2010 5 comments the boeing 787 arrived today at the farnborough air show, a day before the  event actually begins.
said tinseth, virtually giggling: “they don’t wash it because they’re afraid one of the logos will come off,” suggesting a cancellation.
oems are loath to talk about customers.
these stories are: airbus predicts 130+ orders at the air show; leahy says airbus has to get current programs right before proceding with  decision whether to re-engine the a320 family; decision due in 4th quarter; boeing defense facing growing competition from eads; eads sees “fair and open” competition for kc-x; eads chief raps “unfair” wto.
read more… categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing,  bombardier, eads, pratt & whitney tags: air force tanker, airbus, boeing,  eads, farnborough air show thursday’s farnborough impressions july 17, 2008 2 comments airbus had its press briefing, rescheduled from monday, much to the  puzzlement and speculation of observers and rivals (or, perhaps, that should be  in the singular).
maybe they do things differently  in europe than in the us, but there were no separate bins for plastic bottles,  newspapers, and trash like back home; at a big 2 1/2 hour press conference on green aviation where boeing  commercial president scott carson and airbus ceo tom enders were featured  speakers, boeing didn’t have hand-outs of carson’s speech–not  even on flash drive–while the airbus flash drive was packaged in an  oversized, non-recyclable box with non-recyclable plastic neatly holding the  drive; at the same eco-conference, an engineer for rolls-royce engines  couldn’t figure out how to work his power point presentation; boeing had a very classy eco-aviation center; bae systems had perhaps the most interesting aircraft display, an indoor  retrospective of aviation pioneers with replicas of several wood-and-wire era  bi-planes; and reporters still rate the airbus media chalet lunch menu the best-of-show,  an important item considering most journalists are moochers; boeing had a good  cut fruit tray, though, something airbus should do next time.
bst we’ve updated this posting after all the text with orders completed  through day 2, original post: tuesday will be another day where orders are expected to be announced.
other highlights from the airbus conference: airbus is looking at developing a freighter for the a330-300, with a  decision perhaps 6-12 months out; the company is spending about $160 million annually (at current euro  exchange rates) on research to enhance the a320 between now and a replacement  airplane, involving weight savings, new interiors and a soon-to-be-tested  blended winglet developed by aviation partners; application of the new p&w geared turbo fan on the a320, once rejected  by leahy, may be a possibility after all, depending on customer demand and the  outcome of test flights of the gtf on the a340 test bed; the a350 is essentially sold out through 2017, which parenthetically is  also about the same time as the 787; and 3,000 aircraft flying today are 20 or more years old; in five years, this  number will double.
it clearly hadn’t been scrubbed down for looks, with dirt streaks all over the fuselage.
reskinning the 777 would be a massive undertaking and essentially amount to an entirely new airplane.
boeing thinks that if leahy is predicting 130, he’s got a lot more  up his sleeve.
tom williams, evp-head of programs, called bombardier’s launch of the  cseries a “brave thing.”
one hundred of the orders, however, are left over from the dubai air show–the contract was signed at farnborough, but these can’t truly be considered a part of this air show.
boeing will hold a full  tanker briefing wednesday.
dae’s order for 100 boeing airplanes, also announced at the dubai show, was inked before the end of last year and booked in boeing’s 2007 numbers.
airbus’ end-of-show brief was a very useful wrap; boeing might want to follow suit at future shows.
boeing offered up top program officials while eads offered up two american crewmen from its test flight program, a pilot and a boom operator.
bst we’ve updated this posting after all the text with orders completed through day 2, original post: tuesday will be another day where orders are expected to be announced.
update, wednesday morning: this blog site keeps a running  tally of orders.
and that’s what it was.
the breakdown is 128 a320s (70 from dubai); 11 a330s; 98 a350s (30 from dubai); and 10 a380s, though four of these were ordered instead of the carrier taking four test airplanes, so this is only a net gain of six.
reporters are largely bored this year.
read more…categories: boeing tags: boeing, boeing 787, farnborough air show we’re at the farnborough air show and on saturday attended the day-long eads media briefings.
separately, word leaked from farnborough that boeing will get an order fo 20 777s, but this is a swap from the failing dae capital of dubai.
see  our monday posting, updated at 4pm for this information.
one hundred of the orders, however, are left over from the dubai air  show–the contract was signed at farnborough, but these can’t truly  be considered a part of this air show.
boeing’s briefing was a standard presentation followed by q&a; most of the briefing was taken up by the formal presentation.
the wall street journal today had this interview with boeing ceo james mcnerney that indicate it is a remote possibility that boeing will bid a tanker based on the 777 instead of rebidding its kc-767.
read more… categories: air force tanker, boeing, bombardier,  eads, pratt & whitney tags: farnborough air show farnborough/monday july 18, 2010 12 comments updates throughout the post, 415pm bst.
read more…categories: airbus, boeing tags: 777, a350, airbus, boeing, farnborough air show, jim albaugh, john leahy best one-liner: airbus’
categories:air force tanker, airbus, boeing tags: 777, air force tanker, airbus, boeing, dubai aerospace enterprise, farnborough air show, kc-767 enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
this was announced last  year at the dubai air show; it was merely “inked” at this one.
no slouch himself, he retorted the 787 was so clean because it hasn’t flown much.
as we were waiting for  the boeing press briefing to begin on day 1, we remarked how dirty the airbus  a380 test plane was.
update, aug. 1: dominic gates of the seattle times has a long article with the views on the 777 successor from tim clark, ceo of emirates airlines–which operates more 777s than any other airlines.
said tinseth, virtually giggling: “they don’t wash it because  they’re afraid one of the logos will come off,” suggesting a  cancellation.
eads was an interactive briefing with reporters after a few brief remarks,  with nearly the entire session devoted to q&a. read more… categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing tags:  air force tanker, airbus, boeing, eads, farnborough air show farnborough/tuesday july 19, 2010 1 comment updated, wednesday 05:00
it stood in sharp contrast  to the new boeing 787 parked just yards away from the a380, in its shiney white  paint.
original post: boeing has a wide-open mind about how to meet the competition coming from  the airbus 350-1000 to its 777-300er, says jim albaugh, president of boeing  commercial airplanes.
bombardier didn’t announce any cseries orders, but then, we knew by july 12 this was unlikely.
thus, all news sites keeping tallies should put an asterisk by this one.
this ap story sums up the day’s orders.
airbus john leahy on saturday predicted at least 130 orders will be announced this  week.
other stuff, mostly whimsical: it’s a quiet show; few orders.
this tally is also airbus’ second best farnborough air show,  following the one two years ago when 280 orders were announced.
a subscription may be  required to readthe journal’s piece.
read more…categories: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, bombardier, eads, pratt & whitney tags: air force tanker, airbus, boeing, eads, farnborough air show airbus had its press briefing, rescheduled from monday, much to the puzzlement and speculation of observers and rivals (or, perhaps, that should be in the singular).
these stories are below the jump.
john leahy is famous for his witty one-liners, but the best one at the show goes to boeing’s randy tinseth.
boeing announced a minor order swap involving three airplanes.
see individual companies below.
farnborough impressions july 15, 2008 2 comments it’s a quiet show; few orders.
below are the orders through day 4, minus a couple of minor ones due after  we left the field to wrap up our reporting before going home.
we told the story to one of airbus’ top pr people, who grudgenly  acknowleged it was a great line.
the a350 program has now sold 472 firm orders, a rate leahy and the  statistics say is faster than the boeing 787.
boeing offered up top program officials while eads offered up two american  crewmen from its test flight program, a pilot and a boom operator.
the a350 program has now sold 472 firm orders, a rate leahy and the statistics say is faster than the boeing 787.
we gave this11 minute podcast about tuesday’s events.
at least 100 people lined farnborough road adjacent the airport with binoculars and telephoto cameras to watch the landing.
we filed reports exclusively for kiro tv (cbs) in seattle.
we’ll update this  post at the end of the day.
farnborough air show
join 1,010 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
read more…categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier, comac, embraer tags: farnborough air show the boeing 787 arrived today at the farnborough air show, a day before the event actually begins.
leahy also predicted orders from leasing companies, signaling improving economies.
these stories are: these stories are below the jump.
airbus ended the week with 247 firm orders plus commitments for nine  airplanes.
this timing by default gives airbus the  headlines as the show wraps.
ceo thomas enders started the briefing saying that he thought it be more productive for airbus to recap the week, with orders to talk about, than to start the week with nothing to say.
one of the biggest, from dubai  aerospace enterprise (dae), signed a contract with airbus for 100 planes was  merely confirming the order announced last november at the dubai air show.
read more… categories: airbus, boeing tags: 777, a350, airbus,  boeing, farnborough air show, jim albaugh, john leahy farnborough: odds and ends july 22, 2010 6 comments best one-liner: airbus’ john leahy is famous for his witty one-liners, but the best  one at the show goes to boeing’s randy tinseth.
this timing by default gives airbus the headlines as the show wraps.
the speculation was rife: airbus’ super-salesman john leahy had a big  order up his sleeve for announcement.
over the course  of the next week or so, we’ll pick write some additional stuff.
leahy also predicted orders from leasing companies, signaling  improving economies.
for all practical purposes for commercial aviation geeks, the air show is over.
the possibilities include and entirely new aircraft; re-winging the -300er; putting new engines on; and putting a composite fuselage on the airplane.
now  these orders can finally be booked at airbus and on its website.
this was announced last year at the dubai air show; it was merely “inked” at this one.
for the record, we don’t consider the dubai aerospace  enterprise to be a “farnborough” order.
the plane, #3–the so-called “interior airplane” equipped with an interior that is more suitable for testing operations than representative of the actual 787 customer interior–arrived at 9 am uk time, after a 9 hour flight from paine field at everett (wa).
this item for marketwatch pretty  well sums it up.
airbus john leahy on saturday predicted at least 130 orders will be announced this week.
see our monday posting, updated at 4pm for this information.
jon ostrower from flightglobal gave this 15.40 minute podcast with iag for monday’s events.
here is a look ahead for monday at the farnborough air show and what might  be expected for news and orders in the coming week.
the latter point is a bit of an eyebrow-raiser.
read more…categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier tags: farnborough air show boeing and eads held tanker briefings this week–monday for boeing, tuesday for eads.
one of the biggest, from dubai aerospace enterprise (dae), signed a contract with airbus for 100 planes was merely confirming the order announced last november at the dubai air show.
pratt & whitney we will be attending a breakfast hosted by pratt & whitney; perhaps we  can get some information about the issues qatar reports in connection with its  potential cseries order.
read more…categories: airbus, boeing tags:
over the course of the next week or so, we’ll pick write some additional stuff.
airbus ended the week with 247 firm orders plus commitments for nine airplanes.
original post: boeing has a wide-open mind about how to meet the competition coming from the airbus 350-1000 to its 777-300er, says jim albaugh, president of boeing commercial airplanes.
the breakdown is 128 a320s (70 from dubai); 11 a330s; 98 a350s (30 from  dubai); and 10 a380s, though four of these were ordered instead of the carrier  taking four test airplanes, so this is only a net gain of six.
we’ll update this post at the end of the day.
there was one significant order today, from virgin america for 40+20 airbus a320s with options to convert to a321 and to use sharklets.
even john leahy left.
we gave this11 minute podcast about tuesday’s  events.
british airways would announce an  a350-1000 order.
the logos of the a380 customers at the front of the airplane were equally covered in dirt.
the plane, #3–the so-called “interior airplane” equipped  with an interior that is more suitable for testing operations than  representative of the actual 787 customer interior–arrived at 9 am uk  time, after a 9 hour flight from paine field at everett (wa).
the logos of the a380 customers at the  front of the airplane were equally covered in dirt.
it clearly hadn’t been scrubbed down for looks, with  dirt streaks all over the fuselage.
the wall street journal today had this interview with boeing ceo  james mcnerney that indicate it is a remote possibility that boeing will bid a  tanker based on the 777 instead of rebidding its kc-767.
it stood in sharp contrast to the new boeing 787 parked just yards away from the a380, in its shiney white paint.
below are the orders through day 4, minus a couple of minor ones due after we left the field to wrap up our reporting before going home.
separately, word leaked from farnborough that boeing will get an order fo  20 777s, but this is a swap from the failing dae capital of dubai.
other stuff, mostly whimsical: every time a military jet fighter or bomber throttled up for take-off, car  alarms up and down the nearby parking lot went off; “green” aviation was a theme through the air show, right down  to the notices on the waste bins to recycle.
as we were waiting for the boeing press briefing to begin on day 1, we remarked how dirty the airbus a380 test plane was.
read more… categories: airbus, boeing, bombardier tags:  farnborough air show tanker face off at farnborough july 20, 2010 63 comments boeing and eads held tanker briefings this week–monday for boeing,  tuesday for eads.
he believes the plane will be seen as an  interim plane, bypassed by the next generation of single-aisle aircraft,  serving a niche market that he believes is much smaller than bombardier  forecasts; that it will be an orphan aircraft, without a family to buy  “up” to; and it will enter the low-end of the boeing and airbus
jon ostrower from flightglobal gave this 15.40 minute podcast with iag for  monday’s events.
dae’s order for 100 boeing airplanes, also announced at the dubai  show, was inked before the end of last year and booked in boeing’s 2007  numbers.
posts tagged ‘farnborough air show’ boeing wide-open on 777 future: albaugh july 27, 2010 73 comments update, aug. 1: dominic gates  of the seattle  times has a long article with the views on the 777 successor from tim  clark, ceo of emirates airlines–which operates more 777s than any other  airlines.
a subscription may be required to readthe journal’s piece.
and that’s  what it was.
pratt & whitney we will be attending a breakfast hosted by pratt & whitney; perhaps we can get some information about the issues qatar reports in connection with its potential cseries order.
the possibilities include and entirely new aircraft; re-winging the -300er;  putting new engines on; and putting a composite fuselage on the airplane.
ceo thomas enders started the briefing saying  that he thought it be more productive for airbus to recap the week, with orders  to talk about, than to start the week with nothing to say.
oems are loath to talk about  customers.
at least 100  people lined farnborough road adjacent the airport with binoculars and  telephoto cameras to watch the landing.
boeing’s briefing was a standard presentation followed by q&a; most  of the briefing was taken up by the formal presentation.
“and you can quote me on that.”
read more… categories: airbus, boeing tags: farnborough air show farnborough/thursday july 22, 2010 3 comments for all practical purposes for commercial aviation geeks, the air show is  over.
no slouch himself, he retorted the 787 was so  clean because it hasn’t flown much.
british airways would announce an a350-1000 order.
he believes the plane will be seen as an interim plane, bypassed by the next generation of single-aisle aircraft, serving a niche market that he believes is much smaller than bombardier forecasts; that it will be an orphan aircraft, without a family to buy “up” to; and it will enter the low-end of the boeing and airbus markets.
join 1,010 other followers get every new post delivered to your inbox.
the speculation was rife: airbus’ super-salesman john leahy had a big order up his sleeve for announcement.
categories:airbus, boeing tags: airbus, boeing, farnborough air show tuesday’s
here is a look ahead for monday at the farnborough air show and what might be expected for news and orders in the coming week.
now these orders can finally be booked at airbus and on its website.
categories:air force tanker, airbus, boeing tags: 777, air force tanker, airbus, boeing, dubai aerospace enterprise, farnborough air show, kc-767 rss  feed
we told the story to one of airbus’ top pr people, who grudgenly acknowleged it was a great line.
a regular at air shows, the plane was parked right outside  the media center.