as a retired ual captain forced out of a great career at age 60 with 22000+ hours including 57s and 67s, i am a little appalled at your annoying comments that seem to be more important to you than feeling very lucky to be in a position to fly such great aircraft, period.
africa's savings pool scheme lands in america - 5 surprises from the new ipad launch foxnews travel engadget - toshiba builds scanner that can identify fruit without a barcode, yup (video) - vizio welcomes youtube as part of its internet apps arsenal - super talent teases whip-fast raiddrive upstream pcie ssd sherman's travel lonely planet - travel adventures: our top 20 picks - winter from your window: the winning picture - we made an error, sorry aol weird news - alaska's alleged sea monster caught on film - watch:
nebraska storms close omaha airport twice, damage planes sleeping bear dunes national lakeshore is most beautiful place in america 'galactic cosmic rays' threaten fliers health, claims scientist seoul to introduce female-only subway cars fireworks found on southwest airlines plane virgin atlantic issues 'weep warnings' on flights seychelles shark attack: ian redmond, british honeymooner, eaten by shark - blog - web - images - video - news - local weird news dailyfinance - is your bank killing free checking?
maybe flying the md-80 for a while will give me a new level of appreciation for this grand airplane.
e-mail: password: enter your aol or aim screen name and password.
privacy policy | terms of use | trademarks | aol a-z help | advertise with us | about our ads
but there has to be something that pilots dislike on the airplane, right?
when air  traffic control needs to get a hold of us, they have the option of sending a selcal (selective calling) ding that alerts us.
it happens to be my text message alert tone right now-appropriate, i suppose.
generally speaking, boeing takes pilot input into account when designing the pointy-end of their airplanes.
each company does their best to lay out a cockpit to please the end user – the pilot.
cockpit chronicles takes you along on some of  kent's trips as an international co-pilot on the boeing 757 and 767 based in  new york.
as we taxi out, we could also miss a flight attendant call when the latest atis information is delivered or we get our load closeout information, which includes the number of people on board, the weight of the airplane and our stabilizer trim setting.
reply good article, and thank you for sharing your cool perspective with those of us who only fly g.a. ;-) cavu skies
unfortunately, some earlier airplanes didn't have that eicas  notification feature, so we only have the overhead to differentiate the sounds.
reply kent wien mar 8th 2012 7:59pm hi doug, i wasn't complaining about my job, just pointing out that there's some room for boeing to make improvements (as they later did in the 777).
reply kent wien mar 8th 2012 7:59pm
to be fair, these airplanes were designed in the late '70s and  went into service in the '80s.
of course, i knew you'd think i was exaggerating, so i made a quick video showing each light and dimming knob from a recent flight.
at the magic kingdom (video)
9:03pm i love being on 757s and love the way they climb but for us passengers the 757 is pretty uncomfortable (and the overheads, well, suck).
finally i could give them some input about the ding  issue.
i  dream that someday someone from boeing or airbus will call me for advice on  cockpit ergonomics.
see i am a deaf pilot and am restricted from being an atp because of it.
flight attendant call - we aren't immediately sure if it's atc calling with a flight level change or if a flight attendant is checking to see if we need a bathroom break.
line breaks and paragraphs are automatically converted — no need to use  or  tags.
gerard depardieu pees on a plane (not in the bathroom) (update)
if i were to mistake the fmc alert for the hf radio call with  these new sounds, how would that be different to what we have now?
the engineer asked why we didn't just look  at the eicas screen as it would either say, cpdlc, fmc, ground call, or flight  attendant.
and i am glad that this is all i have to complain about.
reply harry mar 8th 2012 4:50pm i think it would have been more clever for the sound to be "boing" instead of "ding" - you know, just in case you guys forget what kind of equipment you're driving!
editor-in-chief rss feed don george features editor rss feed view more writers aol travel.
i certainly wasn't going to mention my second peeve to them.
but here are my minor gripes, with a video to demonstrate the second annoyance.
10:01am yeah, and honestly, the rest are just turn signals.
and i am a retired b-767 captain (check airman).
i explained that this was nice, but that more  than half of our 757s didn't have this eicas 'ding alert' feature.
gadling features categories - - continents/regions - caribbean - central america - africa - asia - europe - north america - middle east - oceania - south america - antarctica - countries - united states - afghanistan - albania - algeria - andorra - angola - antigua and barbuda - argentina - armenia - australia - austria - azerbaijan - bahamas - bahrain - bangladesh - barbados - belarus - belgium - belize - benin - bhutan - bolivia - bosnia-herzegovina - botswana - brazil - brunei - bulgaria - burkina - burma (myanmar) - burundi - cambodia - cameroon - canada - cape verde - central african republic - chad - chile - china - colombia - comoros - congo - costa rica - croatia - cuba - cyprus - czech republic - democratic republic of congo (zaire) - denmark - djibouti - dominica - dominican republic - east timor - ecuador - egypt - el salvador - emirates - equatorial guinea - eritrea - estonia - ethiopia - fiji - finland - france - french polynesia - gabon - gambia - georgia - germany - ghana - greece - grenada - guatemala - guinea - guinea-bissau - guyana - haiti - honduras - hong kong - hungary - iceland - india - indonesia - iran - iraq - ireland - israel - italy - ivory coast - jamaica - japan - jordan - kazakhstan - kenya - kiribati - kosovo - kuwait - kyrgyzstan - laos - latvia - lebanon - lesotho - liberia - libya - liechtenstein - lithuania - luxembourg - macedonia - madagascar - malawi - malaysia - maldives - mali - malta - marshall islands - mauritania - mauritius - mexico - micronesia - moldova - monaco - mongolia - montenegro - morocco - mozambique - namibia - nauru - nepal - netherlands - new zealand - nicaragua - niger - nigeria - north korea - norway - oman - pakistan - palau - panama - papua new guinea - paraguay - peru - philippines - poland - portugal - qatar - romania - russian federation - rwanda - samoa - san marino - sao tome and principe - saudi arabia - senegal - serbia - seychelles - sierra leone - singapore - slovakia - slovenia - solomon islands - somalia - south africa - south korea - spain - sri lanka - st. kitts & nevis - st. lucia - st. vincent & grenadines - sudan - suriname - swaziland - sweden - switzerland - syria - taiwan - tajikistan - tanzania - thailand - togo - tonga - trinidad & tobago - tunisia - turkey - turkmenistan - tuvalu - uganda - ukraine - united arab - united kingdom - uruguay - uzbekistan - vanuatu - vatican city - venezuela - vietnam - yemen - zambia - zimbabwe - activities - activism - arts and culture - biking
when you enter your name and email address, you'll be sent a link to confirm your comment, and a password.
i  felt bad for them.
but i suppose given the realities of the industry today, if that's the only thing i have to complain about, i'm not doing too bad.
i would encourage you to go back and read my other posts.
back in the day i flew to buffalo but we stopped into rochester first.
as a business flyer for over 30 years, i've seen a lot of planes come and go, and i prefer boeing.
that doesn't inspire confidence.
north america central america & caribbean south america europe asia middle east africa oceania share - cockpit chronicles: what's not to like about the 757?
his partner jumped in, describing the studies boeing had done that indicated  that humans could only differentiate between five different sounds in a cockpit.
and boeing has, to some extent, fixed these issues in the 777.
loved them when i was plat (dtw-bos about 300+ times) and riding in the front (retired and one of the sardines now).
we may easily  think it's another nuisance ding and not answer him as these flight plan items  are coming in.
pilotslove boeing products
the following two items that pertain to the 757 and 767 may seem nit-picky, but i thought i'd share them here anyway, even including a video to highlight my second personal peeve.
the idea was  that an air traffic controller could send us a text message that would tell us  to climb, descend, turn or change our speed.
granted, dimming switches in an airplane is a true 'first world problem.'
inflight, these dings create a pavlovian response.
i dropped the subject and stretched out in the middle seat of the md-80.
check out the cockpit chroniclesfacebook  page or follow kent on twitter @veryjr.
"when atc contacts you via this cpdlc thing, i would  imagine there would be a ding?"
(video) - travel smarter 2012:
the test program would only be for miami and a few of our 757s.
on my left was an engineer who was the liaison for boeing to the faa as they made changes to the cockpit flight computer known as the fmc and to my right was an engineer who did the actual programing of any new features in the box.
unfortunately, this is a time when the crew-chief on the  ground calls us through a headset plugged in at our nose wheel.
chimes you know the chime that accompanies the seatbelt sign when it cycles on or off?
reply add your comments - new readers - returning - aol first time?
cockpit chronicles: what's not to like about the 757?
upon hearing the ding, we need  to look either on the forward eicas screen where the engine information is  displayed for a clue as to what the ding was, or overhead to see if the selcal  light is on.
one of  them said proudly.
great view, i always wondered what the people on the ground thought about such a big plane that low just cruising along.
looking forward to your first video with 4 bars and a real airplane that you have to actually fly (mad dogs!).
name: e-mail: members enter your username and password.
at least you're getting paid to play with switches, i have to pay through the wazoo for my experience on the plane.
maybe  flying the md-80 for a while will give me a new level of appreciation for this  grand airplane.
the look around the cockpit for the various clues  to the source can be amusing to someone riding in the jumpseat.
generally speaking, boeing takes pilot input into  account when designing the pointy-end of their airplanes.
as we left the gate, the pilot said we had clearance for takeoff, so we went down the taxiway a lot faster than normal, then or now and made the turn onto the runway without slowing down and giving full speed coming out of the turn and off we went.
new tips for the budget traveler - top ten things to do in brussels, belgium - vagabond tales: scuba diving nicaragua in a lightning storm cockpit chronicles: what's not to like about the 757?
unfortunately, some earlier airplanes didn't have that eicas notification feature, so we only have the overhead to differentiate the sounds.
you know, i used to be impressed when i would glance into the cockpit as i was boarding a jet.
but now i know the truth... half of them are just dimmer switches.
travel ideas celebrities at disneyland: who likes to celebrate at the happiest place on earth?
- is 'sou-sou' for you?
of  course, i knew you'd think i was exaggerating, so i made a quick video showing  each light and dimming knob from a recent flight.
just as your mouth starts to water after  hearing the ding, it's always a letdown to discover that it was just the other  guy updating the winds in the fmc.
later this innovative concept expanded to other  air traffic facilities for use primarily with the 777 and some newer airbuses.
"when atc contacts you via this cpdlc thing, i would imagine there would be a ding?"
his partner jumped in, describing the studies boeing had done that indicated that humans could only differentiate between five different sounds in a cockpit.
i felt bad for them.
it happens to be  my text message alert tone right now-appropriate, i suppose.
bpante mar 8th 2012 9:11pm q: what's the difference between an pilot and a jet engine?
joe mar 8th 2012 6:58pm i would be most glad to do your job and happy to boot.
email addresses are never displayed, but they are required to confirm your comments.
because frankly, after 22 years at this, i love my job.
all those fancy switches and knobs...
i sighed and pleaded for a simple telephone ring for the flight  attendant call that comes in on the handset, and then for a few different tones  for the rest.
reply travelwithdave mar 8th 2012 5:52pm kent, i know you love your job, and i enjoy you sharing parts of it with us.
reply thanks for the tour and for (trying) to tell boeing how they can improve their product.
if i were to mistake the fmc alert for the hf radio call with these new sounds, how would that be different to what we have now?
10:11pm loved your article.
check out the cockpit chroniclesfacebook page or follow kent on twitter @veryjr.
as i said above: "...if that's the only thing i have to complain about, i'm not doing too bad.
thanks again kent for all your efforts to explain to us how things work; you have a huge fan club.
- camping - climbing - hiking - history - learning - paddling - scuba diving - skiing - surfing - topics - airline reviews - airlines - airports - blogs - books - budget travel - business - consumer activism - cruises - ecotourism - festivals and events - food and drink - gadling gear review - gadling's daily deal - gadling's most-read - gear - hotels and accommodations - internet tools - luxury travel - news - nightlife - photos - podcasts - stories - theme parks - transportation - travel deals - travel health - travel security - travel trivia - video - what's in your pack?
when air traffic control needs to get a hold of us, they have the option of sending a selcal (selective calling) ding that alerts us.
the flight over to buffalo was at about 9000'.
chimes you know the chime  that accompanies the seatbelt sign when it cycles on or off?
be happy you have a job.
after five years of writing this column, i think you'd find this to be my first 'complaint', and it wasn't really about the job.
if this is all i have to complain about, that's not too bad.
exploding manhole tosses car in the air - cat stabs man (or so he says) - 150 fat, jolly, and sweaty santas prep for christmas in denmark joystiq - the evolution of jetpack joyride's store, in pictorial form - jetpack joyride was almost 'machine fun jetpack' - enjoy keiji inafune's adorable gdc 2012 slide cartoons right here more from aol travel: airline tickets, hotel reservations, car rental, vacation packages, discount cruises, last-minute deals aol travel travel ideas: adventure, asia travel, beaches, cruises, europe travel, foodie travel, healthy travel, holiday travel, international destinations, national parks, skiing, travel blogs, travel tips, travel photography, us destinations, weekend getaways © 2012 aol inc.
so i think they were a bit taken aback.
featured galleries (view all) also on aol - autos - automotive news - green automotive news - technology - gadget news - tech news - apple news - lifestyle - gaming - gaming news - world of warcraft - mmo news - finance - business news - stock quotes - stock prices - djia - investing - online tax filing or e-filling - personal finance - taxes - tax basics - tax advice - tax forms - mortgage calculators - debt management - retirement - refinancing - entertainment on aol - lifestyle on aol - diy news - green daily - parentdish - slashfood - stylelist - that's fit - sports on aol - travel on aol - travel news - airline tickets - hotels - car rentals - cruise deals - vacation packages - discount travel - travel deals - disney travel - honeymoon travel - international travel - more on aol - african-american culture - cars - games - maps - money - movies - music - news - radio our writers grant martin
(video) by kent wien (rss feed) on mar 8th 2012 at 8:00am powerful engines providing stellar performance and short field capabilities are just some of the features that set the boeing 757 apart from the rest.
inflight, these dings  create a pavlovian response.
i dream that someday someone from boeing or airbus will call me for advice on cockpit ergonomics.
to create a live link, simply type the url (including http://) or email address and we will make it a live link for you.
as we request the flight plan data to be uploaded to the airplane, dings come in rapidly (i've lost count at eight dings in less than a minute) for these items and more: forecasted winds at altitude uplink route uplink takeoff performance data uplink
filed under: the cockpit chronicles share
one of them said proudly.
that is: dim and dimmer depending on the airplane and configuration, there are between 32 and 34 different dimming switches and knobs to change the lighting intensity on the 757 and 767 cockpit lights.
as we request the flight plan  data to be uploaded to the airplane, dings come in rapidly (i've lost count at  eight dings in less than a minute) for these items and more: forecasted winds at altitude uplink route uplink takeoff performance  data uplink
just as your mouth starts to water after hearing the ding, it's always a letdown to discover that it was just the other guy updating the winds in the fmc.
8:37pm kent- i'd rather be playing with dimmer switches than sitting in coach with my knees shoved up under my chin, with some 300 pounder spilling over into my space, sucking in air that 150 others have been coughing into, with some screaming baby drooling over the back of the seat in front of me, dealing with some cranky flight attendant who takes great umbrage with me when i ask for an extra ice cube and maybe the whole can.
be glad that thats all you have to conplain about.
i then prodded them on how we were supposed to differentiate the different dings for different functions, all sounding exactly the same, as they came in.
from one pilot to another - fly safe!
but sometimes there are just a few quirks that slip through.
aviatorleo mar 8th 2012 2:38pm if it's not boeing, i'm not going.
they  were excited to tell me about the new cpdlc orcontroller pilot data link  communication feature they were testing out on one of our 757s.
on my left was  an engineer who was the liaison for boeing to the faa as they made changes to  the cockpit flight computer known as the fmc and to my right was an engineer  who did the actual programing of any new features in the box.
i couldn't believe my luck.
upon hearing the ding, we need to look either on the forward eicas screen where the engine information is displayed for a clue as to what the ding was, or overhead to see if the selcal light is on.
count yourself lucky.
(video) by kent wien (rss feed) on mar 8th 2012 at 8:00am powerful engines providing stellar performance and short field capabilities are  just some of the features that set the boeing 757 apart from the rest.
we may easily think it's another nuisance ding and not answer him as these flight plan items are coming in.
cockpit chronicles takes you along on some of kent's trips as an international co-pilot on the boeing 757 and 767 based in new york.
the look around the cockpit for the various clues to the source can be amusing to someone riding in the jumpseat.
i explained that this was nice, but that more than half of our 757s didn't have this eicas 'ding alert' feature.
it was all done in fun.
i've written earlier abouthow much i love the 757 and these annoyances are amusingly minor in the grand scheme of airplane design.
" david c. mar 8th 2012 9:00pm thanks kent for posting....regardless of what the others say i think it was super interesting!
so i think they were a  bit taken aback.
new tips for the budget traveler top ten things to do in brussels, belgium vagabond tales: scuba diving nicaragua in a lightning storm share cockpit chronicles: what's not to like about the 757?
to be fair, these airplanes were designed in the late '70s and went into service in the '80s.
your comments: remember me e-mail me when someone replies to this comment please keep your comments relevant to this blog entry.
i  couldn't believe my luck.
that is: dim and dimmer depending on the airplane  and configuration, there are between 32 and 34 different dimming switches and  knobs to change the lighting intensity on the 757 and 767 cockpit lights.
thanks for a fun video.
rick jon mar 8th 2012
doug mar 8th 2012 4:41pm kent, if your too busy/tired of trying to find all your sounds in the cockpit, i'll be glad to take your place with the same pay any day of the rest of your life.
the idea was that an air traffic controller could send us a text message that would tell us to climb, descend, turn or change our speed.
don't get  me wrong.
well, there's a  slightly more annoying sound in the cockpit that is supposed to represent  various different alerts such as: hf and vhf selcal -
well, there's a slightly more annoying sound in the cockpit that is supposed to represent various different alerts such as: hf and vhf selcal -
the test program would only be for  miami and a few of our 757s.
around an hour after takeoff, flight attendants usually call with meal choices for us.
well, there are two features in particular that i don't care for.
have any questions for kent?
reply kent wien mar 8th 2012
and i'm quite sure i'll really miss it after i retire.
later this innovative concept expanded to other air traffic facilities for use primarily with the 777 and some newer airbuses.
the airbuses make that weird screeching / crunching noise after you're at the gate waiting to get off the plane.
the following two  items that pertain to the 757 and 767 may seem nit-picky, but i thought i'd  share them here anyway, even including a video to highlight my second personal  peeve.
- women's travel - features - about the bloggers - april fools posts - dim sum dialogues - galley gossip - life nomadic - one for the road - photo of the day - plane answers - skymall monday - talking travel - the accidental chef travels - the cockpit chronicles - through the gadling lens - traveling the american road - video of the week become our fan on facebook!
flight attendant call - we aren't immediately sure if it's atc  calling with a flight level change or if a flight attendant is checking to see  if we need a bathroom break.
and boeing has, to some extent, fixed these  issues in the 777.
during the preflight, it's a regular ding-fest.
to leave another comment, just use that password.
years ago, i met two boeing  engineers while i was riding in the back of an md-80 to dallas.
they were excited to tell me about the new cpdlc orcontroller pilot data link communication feature they were testing out on one of our 757s.
reply kent wien mar 8th 2012 7:59pm thanks dave, as someone who's been reading this from the beginning, i know you'd understand.
but here are my minor gripes, with a video to demonstrate  the second annoyance.
finally i could give them some input about the ding issue.
but  there has to be something that pilots dislike on the airplane, right?
unfortunately, this is a time when the crew-chief on the ground calls us through a headset plugged in at our nose wheel.
i dropped the subject and stretched out in the middle seat of  the md-80.
i've written earlier abouthow much i love the 757 and these  annoyances are amusingly minor in the grand scheme of airplane design.
the engineer asked why we didn't just look at the eicas screen as it would either say, cpdlc, fmc, ground call, or flight attendant.
as we taxi out, we could also miss a flight attendant  call when the latest atis information is delivered or we get our load closeout  information, which includes the number of people on board, the weight of the  airplane and our stabilizer trim setting.
i then prodded them on how we were supposed to  differentiate the different dings for different functions, all sounding exactly  the same, as they came in.
an item, which an engineer may spend only a day or two thinking about, can have a lasting impact on the pilots that fly the airplane for thousands of hours.
i sighed and pleaded for a simple telephone ring for the flight attendant call that comes in on the handset, and then for a few different tones for the rest.
filed under: the cockpit chronicles share search travel deals all deals flight deals hotel deals vacation deals cruise deals car deals reader comments (page 1 of 1) russ mar 8th 2012 9:19pm
skip to content gadling close - main - explore the map - budget travel - adventure travel - travel tech - our sites - autoblog - download squad - engadget - gadling - joystiq - switched - tuaw - wow insider - about - rss - send feedback click on a label to read posts from that part of the world.
but sometimes there are just a few quirks that  slip through.
years ago, i met two boeing engineers while i was riding in the back of an md-80 to dallas.
thanks for continuing to write these posts and making these videos - i always look forward to a new post from you!
disney world welcomes fall
each company does their best to lay out a cockpit to please  the end user – the pilot.
reply rick mar 8th 2012
a: a jet engine stops whining when the planes shuts down scott mar 8th 2012 2:54pm typical pilot..
an item, which an engineer may spend only a day or two thinking  about, can have a lasting impact on the pilots that fly the airplane for  thousands of hours.
you can put up to 3 urls in your comments.
a confirmation email will be sent to you after submitting.
(video) travel smarter 2012:
[for whatever you fly], mr. wien.
kent wien mar 8th 2012 4:17pm i see your point, scott.
after the test period, it was deactivated on the 757.