a little more theory of ground  school would have been good thank you anthony chidiac walt!
after this  500hours i will have to do a proficiency check in a jar fcl simulator and then  i will get the atpl license.
(i will explain what i mean from 'instructor' more in details in  your question about the instructor) (3) did you complete the training at the advertised price that walt  quoted you?
there are several instructors training but walt runs the whole thing, which  is nice.
i  feel that i've learned a lot of great techniques for operating a b757/767 from  the great instructors and check airmen provided for me, and i would highly  recommend that you get your type rating from aat global.
it is a great idea to be able to tailor make your course to work for any operator, however, everyone needs to be on the same page, instructors and students.
this is not cheating the system.
sincerely: july 16,2007 hi walt, i just wanted to say that my type rating course at aat
there is a lot of home study to do by yourself.
you can give this email address flyboy@aon.at to your prospective customers and i am willing to answer their questions anytime.
walt lazaruk, owner of aat global inc was extremely flexible in providing a course tailored to my time constraints.
the simulator was very  good and enjoyed all of the training.
a little more theory of ground school would have been good thank you anthony chidiac walt!
the computer based ground school was very informative tool to learning and the best part about it was that it helps you learn at you own pace.
but hey no complains, after 4 years of hard work this is  nothing.
the price was exactly to the cent that was quoted.
now to make my day, on the roll out, he gave me an engine fire on the ground which was straight forward and that was followed by evacuation.
i did very well  on my training in the simulator.
ontario dear mr. lazurk, my experience on taking the type rating boeing 767/757 type rating course at aat global.
during my professional career to date i have only worked for 3 companies, kenn borek air, cargojet (for 3 months - ground school only no flight training) and air canada jazz.
then 2 elacs failing so  you're in alternate law, then i was asked to do a 45 degree bank without fd's  or auto thrust.
both tariq and i would liked to have done better in calgary  than vancouver, but it just didn't work that way.
walt tries to sell this pretty hard, is it that  helpful?
now i am at 35000 feet
prior to the course  we were told that we would be using viva sop's, we were also given a set of  school sop's and there are also the boeing sop's in the manuals.
the contract is written is favour of both parties.
it was a start to what i hope is a long career  here at viva.
air 2 days ago and received my license today with the endorsement.
the simulator was good experience with  detail initial briefing and de-briefings.
in order to get a a320 type rating, i had the required training with aat global.
things could have turned out very differently without him.
thanks again walt for all your effort and help and send  my regards to len and wish me luck.
if you are looking for the most efficient and cost effective program then this is for you, but then again you can go to other organizations and pay two or three times more for the same program which may end up being less in the end.
jafar from lebonon states the following opinion regarding my type rating qualification with aat global facility i think that the course was quite informative and very resourceful.
jafar from lebonon states the following opinion regarding my type  rating qualification with aat global facility i think that the course was quite informative and very resourceful.
walt and i want to thank you so very much  for all your help and support that you showed me and the rest of us during our  course at aat global.
that was i what wanted, that was what was offered, and that is what i got.
i'm gonna send an e-mail to fabien, claude, and sameer and let them know as well.
i started the course on the 3rd of may and told walt that i would like to finish the course by the end of the month, well how can i say this..?
whereas, i was surprised to find  no instructor lead technical ground school at active, however, cbt's are  supposed to negate the need for instructor lead classrooms, and in no way  affects my opinion of the course'just an observation.
my instructor was captain len harding.
the reality, however, is that during this portion of the training, the demand on the understanding of the auto flight system and be able to have a working knowledge of electrics, hydraulics, the fuel system and all the other systems found on the flight deck.
you need to be master in  programming the mcdu and doing it fast as you will do that every single time  you get reset back at the threshold of the runway for another take off in the  sim.
oh  another thing he gave me was dual hyd g and b sys failure which is an emergency  situation although it was mostly stuff done by my pnf except for the landing  gear manual extension and slat and flap jamming which i order him to do  depending on the ecam call that he gave me.
and i made an emergency descent once without  structural damage like we were trained so i descended at 340 kits
the only critiques i still have are the manuals.
they will place me only on  the domestic flights and then as i progress they'll let me fly some  international routes.
actually much more than i ever  thought of.
we only cancelled one session and that was due to heavy thunderstorm activities outside that introduced power surges to the system.
but i suggest you don't allow these rubbish cloud your vision and affect your judgment about him until you experience him yourself first hand like i did.
prior to starting the course, i  was able to download a copy of the boeing 767 cbt from the internet and  thoroughly worked through it before starting the active course.
now that was really tough.
specifically scott and tim were an immense help.
contact the webmaster to aat global may 6, 2008 aat global president dear mr. lazaruk, just a short note to let you know
and then the second was with structural damage and that was new to me.
the  course met with my expectations.
i will start applying here and see what comes out of that.
to my opinion he gives a true meaning to the word professionalism m.
sukh sergill vancouver.
and the cheapest way to learn it is using the free play  trainer.
type rating is one of the most important steps after obtaining your  pilot license from a general aviation school.
walt is the  first one to offer this to you.
with the emergency procedures the sequence they have here is a lot different , so i had to do it their way.
on the negative side, cheap looking cockpit posters and a weak type rating ground school with confusion which may very well be resolved on future courses, especially, as we were the first to attempt a course using non-school sop's
prior to the course we were told that we would be using viva sop's, we were also given a set of school sop's and there are also the boeing sop's in the manuals.
after spending $18,000, a set of colour, original cockpit posters might be a nice idea.
my first 3 flights will be  from the jump seat as an observer and it will be to (hesh) which is a resort  called sharm el sheik in egypt.
i do  thank you for the way you handled our concern.
they insisted that we call them at home if i had any questions or problems whatsoever.
its all thanks to a very good instructor  ( len) that aat global gave us.
i would say if you don't pass the check ride then it is not because of the school it is because of you did study .i
in the end i bought a set of cockpit posters from aviation world  for around $50.
i know the sim is still there as a  captain for first air (ian blewett) just did his recurrent on that sim 2 weeks  ago.
i have no hesitation in recommending aat global to anyone who is thinking along  the lines of a rating.
i would not hesitate in recommending other students to attend type-rating training with aat global and would consider them a first choice for training in the future if required.
during my professional career to  date i have only worked for 3 companies, kenn borek air, cargojet (for 3 months  - ground school only no flight training) and air canada jazz.
in order to get a  a320 type rating, i had the required training with aat global.
i will keep you posted as to my progress.
by the way the examiner  was very pleased and he told me that your level of training is maybe a guy who  has at least 300 hrs on the actual aircraft.
course material ' 7 out of 10 previously, when using cbt software, i had found that the cbt was for use at home prior to commencement of the course and daily review and then used as the basis for a structured taught ground school.
plus he gave me a 90 degree  cross wind at 15 kts
the examiner mr. steve cunningham also proved himself to be  very professional and friendly.
i think, in the future, the world's airlines will seek out alternatives to the high cost of aircrew training.
gerald weber kamloops,  british columbia aat global 767 course critique naturally, with any course or  training programs their will be a mix of positive and negative opinions  depending upon the candidate's background and experience.
the instructors and check airmen are all  current air canada captains, or retired from air canada, so they have a wealth  of knowledge and experience for you to draw on.
things could have turned out very differently  without him.
i am sure katz is a great guy.
i want to take the opportunity to thank mr. walt for all the effort he spend on us over and to wish him all the best.
i did a normal t/o without autopilot involvement just to see how i handle the  aircraft then a circuit and an ils approach and landing hand flying it all the  way.
anyway, i learned a lot and it was fun
aat global allowed me to obtain a type rating for the airbus 320  within the precalculated budget and infact less time than foreseen.
i feel that i've learned a lot of great techniques for operating a b757/767 from the great instructors and check airmen provided for me, and i would highly recommend that you get your type rating from aat global.
you may observe with us or one of our associate simulator providers.
i was  first confused because i was flying as a pf from the right seat and not the  left as we used to do in vancouver.
home study is a great head start but not absolutely essential.
official a320 f/o, amir my a320 training march 13th, 2005
aat global president dear mr. lazaruk, just a short note to  let you know i really i appreciate all of your help and assistance with my  a-330 transition type i received through aat global.
my sincere thanks for all your efforts!
besides i had to study their sop's which is  a lot different than the ones we had even though they all lead to the same  result.
during  my stay i enjoyed the superb experience of all the instructors and their  patience in training.
to my opinion he gives a true  meaning to the word professionalism m.
thanks walt, i now  have the 767/757 on my licence.
sincerely, david williams to whom it may concern: my full name is alan lord, i currently hold a valid australian, new  zealand, us faa atp/mel/cfi and a png senior commercial license.
this a/c is an autopilot aircraft
i now have the a320 validated on my australian atp,and plan to continue my training on the a330/340 with active late this year.
on schedule 'as promised' recommendation: color charts and graphs would be helpful aat global gave a true meaning to the word professionalism capt poughand re: type rating on a dutch license
on the whole, and  bearing in mind that not everyone will have the ability to have their own cbt  at home, active's cbt was excellent and was offered in a learning conducive  environment.
both tariq and i would liked to have done better in calgary than vancouver, but it just didn't work that way.
how did you find the staff?
it is a desktop simulator but is no way near a game like microsoft simulator.
it was condensed  lots of studying, lots of reading but all in all at the  end it was very fruitful and rewarding.
but maybe also my english  writing is a bit no sensitive.
not to stall it but the recovery in direct  law.
believe it or not i had to do some  stuff in the ppc ride which i never did in vancouver.
they will place me only on the domestic flights and then as i progress they'll let me fly some international routes.
but i suggest you  don't allow these rubbish cloud your vision and affect your judgment about him  until you experience him yourself first hand like i did.
and i hope you tell len about the check ride so he can add those exercises for future students.
that is just one of the  best and one of the most exciting things that ever happened to me in my life.
during my stay i enjoyed the superb experience of all the instructors and their patience in training.
cameo pourghanad 'a320 course comments, from our graduate student- harald summer, from austria' about my critique: i did a lot of research about aat global on the internet and especially on prune quite a number of people on prune did not talk very positive about aat global.
i still have all your 737 books and cockpit diagrams and am reading through them as my heart is really set on getting the 737 rating and hopefully being able to fly one soon.
of course the more knowledge and familiarity you have with the airplane the more you will benefit from the course and instructor.
i don't know what type you are considering to get but a320 is a fully managed airplane that you need to fly via the computers.
the following documents needed from the type  rating course: 1.course completion certificate of the  trto.
i  really worked hard for it and i earned it truly.
i  would like to thank you for the course on the 757/767.
i would not hesitate in recommending other students to  attend type-rating training with aat global and would consider them a first  choice for training in the future if required.
i would like to thank you for the course on the 757/767.
i have heard many good things about  him from pilots here at viva.
the course is not spoon fed and may not  be suitable for students with limited experience or are unable to work  self-paced.
ken hoeg denmar i would highly recommend aat global as a tool to prepare yourself for a career in aviation.
its all thanks to a very good instructor ( len) that aat global gave us.
due to the high cost of full motion sims, it is essential that the student prepare him/herself with hour upon hour of home study so that the instructor is not forced to'freeze' the sim to take the time to explain what should have been learned during the ground school segment; maximize your tim in the sim by being fully prepared!!!
dear walt lazaruk, this is the message i received from the  dutch authorities and i can confirm to you that what you wrote is correct.
if you walk they will  have to slow down and walk with you but if you run they will run with you.
i will keep you posted as to my  progress.
sometimes he was hard, but now i understand why.
nevertheless i decided  to start a course with you and as i said i have no regrets that i did so.
amr received a job with memphis airways in egypt  because he attained a type rating on the airbus a320 to: aat global inc august 8th, 2004 my training for a boeing 757 & 767 type rating.
ground school over the internet contact us airline jobs available!!
i was treated very well  and in a professional manner and enjoyed my training.
i started the course on the 3rd of may and told walt that i would like  to finish the course by the end of the month, well how can i say this..?
4 ' 12 hour  days in the cold flight training device for procedure training to get ourselves
i really worked hard for it and i earned it truly.
the course is short and the simulator hours are not what an upgrade with an airline gives you.
and that was the end of it.
how much time would you recommend spending on home study before heading to canada?
once again, i wanted to show my appreciation and would highly recommend aat global to my colleagues in the future for training on the airbus.
in my opinion mainly , the alternate law direct  law , stall , recovery , 45 degree bank and structural damage with emergency  decent where you extend the landing gear were the toughest exercises.
you have been helpful improving comfort  ability with the plane itself and thereby building my confidence.
that is just one of the best and one of the most exciting things that ever happened to me in my life.
i think that we started off on a bad note with kaz.
as i told you many times, i was extremely happy with your course and i can recommend aat global to anybody.
with a canadian license, you have to renew your  type rating every 2 years, and walt has been very helpful in setting up an  instrument renewal for me.
the instructors and check airmen are very helpful and interested in teaching you the proper techniques for flying the aircraft in different situations.
which again comes back down to the money, as every min of your sim time is valuable and trust me you don't want to spend more than a min of your time figuring out how to reprogram the mcdu.
in retrospect, if scott is running the 767 side of the course then, day 1, it would be useful to have a sit down with the students to explain how the course will run.
the whole work environment at aat global and with mr. walt lazaruk was very professional and pleasant.
i don't think walt tries or needs to sell this as it sells  itself once you use it.
for me this experienced will always act as a foundation towards building my career.
a320 ' atpl - 7500 hours total with light business jet and medium transport  turboprop.
is it simply just a desktop simulator like microsoft for example?
these  companies have very thorough ground school and flight training programs and are  the basis for my comparison.
having never flown  anything larger than a dash 8, nor, having any jet experience, 3 sessions with  an instructor for the ground school was quite weak for us.
i personally felt at home with the instructor i have known for a short time mr. walt here at aat global made the course very understandable and gave us a wealth of information which he achieved from his past airline experience.
keep up the good work.
from flying a piper seminole to an a320.
however, i used my good airman  ship and made a nice smooth landing and he was very impressed.
thank you again astvaldur draupnisson (with a 'v') iceland p.s. astvaldur received a boeing 757/767 rating with distinction to: aat global inc.
i found the course well organized.
then a normal t/o with an engine out at v1 just like we did then continue with a circuit and an approach then a go around with the failed engine after the ils approach at minima.
all the best harald summer salzburg, austria the following email, is an answer to a request, from a prospective student, asking for information on the program.
i should have wrote that maybe  in a different way on the piece of paper you gave us
the on-line ground  school and manuals were also very informative.
a warm welcome was the first impression very clean and bright class rooms good computers and programs all different types of training aids available 24 hour access to the classroom full time support from walt himself and the instructors good lesson plan ( from very easy to very hard) and from (known to unknown) excellent instructor
i have completed an airbus a318/a319/a320/a321 course at aat global inc.
not even an issue, great cbt, and level c or d approved by transport canada.
but ones you know your s.o.ps and you ifr procedures, then i would say it is the right place to come.
with the emergency procedures the sequence they have here is a lot  different , so i had to do it their way.
having a laptop with you would help as you can review the systems back in  the comfort of your hotel room.
it took a lot of effort (5 hours of computer based training plus extensive studying at night for weeks on end.
then 2 elacs failing so you're in alternate law, then i was asked to do a 45 degree bank without fd's or auto thrust.
i hope this helps you!
i left the suncor oil plant in alberta to come to you for 737 training, wrote the iatra, did the instrument rating, wrote the 2 atpl exams, came up to cambridge bay, got ppcs on the twin-otter, both the king air 100 and 200, just went to tucson, arizona to flight safety and did the learjet training, and now already have 52 hours on the lear.
but they are not hidden and this issue is well explained in that first day talk and review of the contract with walt.
i would have liked to have more time to prepare for the ground school and the simulator.
the embedded questions help ones learning more enjoyable without losing interest.
of course i did a lot of other stuff like engine vibration above 4.3 for n2  and egpws and tcas , and a lot of other stuff which was a piece of cake.
special thanks to mr. walt for the rich training we had and all the care givenspecial thanks to mr. walt for the rich training we had and all the care given mohamad zein 29/11/2006 dear walt, i would like to thank aat global for the a320 course.
i passed my sim ride in cairo at egypt air 2 days ago and received my license today with the endorsement.
mechanical engineering, masters in aeronautical engineering, atplwarwick obtained a first officers position with air vietnam because he attained the a320 type rating.
on the whole, and bearing in mind that not everyone will have the ability to have their own cbt at home, active's cbt was excellent and was offered in a learning conducive environment.
a-320 a-330 type attention: walt lazaruk aat global                                                                                     feb 15.08 re: b767 type rating walt i just wanted to give you some feedback on the type rating i took  through aat global.
and i had to land the damn thing.
after  providing the $3000 deposit, i was able to pick up the course material and it  was very much what i was expecting with regards to the copies of the boeing  manuals, however, the photocopied cockpit wall posters were difficult to read
it was a start to what i hope is a long career here at viva.
and i know he is doing his best to get me a job there or some other plasce.
mr.. walt lazaruk went out of  his way to ensure top notch tuition and first class instructors were available.
st. pierre, who brings a world of knowledge and experience on the airbus a-330 and a-340 series for which i was very impressed.
i knew that i should  use selected speed but then to increase the rate of descent lowering the gear  below fl250 and below 250 kts then selecting speed to 270 and then at 10000  retracting the gear but first selecting speed 220.
i had also bought a copy of level-d 767 for flight simulator 2004 and familiarized myself with it.
if there are three guys in your course  you will get more time in the sim.
the embedded questions help ones learning more enjoyable  without losing interest.
it was for my own good which really made me more self confident when i go on the line.
of course this is only a small aspect of the  entire type rating but you must understand it was also the first impression i  had.
my special thank go to captain walt lazaruk for a  job well done yours sincerely antone medwar vancouver 24/11/2006
he  is an extremely honest and professional person who delivered on all of his  promises and more.
he has everything very organized and is always around when you need something or question.
i'll stay in touch and keep you  posted and updated.
you may find some  negative comments about him and his organization on prune
best regards: p.s in the short period  of time since obtaining my type rating many companies have shown their  interest toward me my critique of the a320 course with aat global inc.
and then the  second was with structural damage and that was new to me.
we had len for our course, he is a 767 captain with air canada with almost every boeing product in his logbook, and he also flew a320 as a captain with air canada for few years.
if you walk they will have to slow down and walk with you but if you run they will run with you.
i'll stay in touch and keep you posted and updated.
summing up my experience with your course i must say that the negative rumours are wrong.
the instructor was very good.
i can add a foreign (canadian) type rating on my jar fcl with a  restriction which be lifted after 500hours on the same type.
the only thing i didn't enjoy was the late simulator sessions.
i would also like to  express my sincere gratitude to instructor capt.
i passed my sim ride in cairo at egypt
now i have 2 licenses with a valid ea32 type rating on both.
walt lazaruk, owner of aat global inc was extremely flexible  in providing a course tailored to my time constraints.
keep up  the good work.
the instructors and simulator availabilities were to my full satisfaction.
now i have 2 licenses with a valid ea32 type  rating on both.
his  level of knowledge and experience is not even an issue to be questioned.
i would like to thank you walt  for all the support and the help you've given me.
dear  walt, how are you and how is everything.
the on-line ground school and manuals were also very informative.
to whom it may concern i undersigned antoime medowar wish to extend my gratitude to aat global
you need to be master in programming the mcdu and doing it fast as you will do that every single time you get reset back at the threshold of the runway for another take off in the sim.
that i did very very very well even though i never did it before.
kalboussi seyfullah belgium p.s. seyfullah has been hired by a mainland chinese airline  because he has a type rating.
i don't think walt tries or needs to sell this as it sells itself once you use it.
it is a great idea to be able to tailor make your  course to work for any operator, however, everyone needs to be on the same  page, instructors and students.
the examiners claimed to be impressed with our  final rides and assumed that we had experience far beyond that of our resumes.
the instructors mr. steve  st. pierre and mr. mike maryowski were extremely knowledgable and patient and  had the ability to pass the knowledge on to me in a very professional and  friendly manner.
he has everything very organized and is always around when you need  something or question.
walt, i really want to apologize for my unprofessional behavior and sarcasm after the 737 training and as mentioned before thank you very much for paving the way in my new career.
you are the first to know by the way.
a special note  for examiner capt.
flight training ' full sim ' 10 out of 10 overall the course  offers, strong instructors in tim and scott, great facilities, and an  accommodating director/owner.
how much time would you  recommend spending on home study before heading to canada?
walt and i want to thank you so very much for all your help and support that you showed me and the rest of us during our course at aat global.
the confusion and the one weak instructor left us a little dissatisfied; however, this has been discussed in length and was ultimately resolved to our satisfaction.
sop's / type rating ground school ' 6 out of 10
lawrence itani nov 29th, 2006 to whom it may concern being trained at aat global inc i felt being  taken care of and received all what i  need and more.
aat global for all your help.
i did very well in my  interview today and i will be flying as an f/o starting april 1st
a warm welcome was the first impression very clean and bright class rooms good computers and programs all different types of training aids available 24 hour access to the classroom full time support from walt himself and the instructors good lesson plan ( from very easy to very hard) and from (known to unknown) excellent instructor recommendation: color charts and graphs would be helpful aat  global gave a true meaning to the word professionalism capt poughand re: type rating on a dutch license
you can give this  email address flyboy@aon.at to your prospective customers and i am willing to  answer their questions anytime.
my only advice to people out there is; don't let someone's opinion be your reality.
my point is, the more you  get yourself ready for the course and the more input is from you the more  result you will get from the instructor and the course in general.
his knowledge, background and familiarity with airbus products are impressive to say the least and his ability to demonstrate procedures provides the student with an endless stream of information that is easily understood.
best regards sincerely, tariq.
before i detail my thoughts; the summary: starting the course i was optimistic and impressed by the setup, however, as the course progressed, i became disappointed and more concerned that there was a lack of training.
i have to start from the accommodation as the hotel was very nice and clean and the price was wonderful.
i am very  pleased and happy with my training and hopefully when i get a job i will  definitely be back for an upgrade to the a330 and a340.
i already had a copy at home, as did wes, and we used this a great deal for practicing cockpit flows and flight procedures.
i did very well on my training in the simulator.
if there are three guys in your course you will get more time in the sim.
gary scott who is an excellent  instructor who i would highly recommend to future candidates.
i had the opportunity to complete my command rating on the a320 aircraft utilizing the facilities provided by aat global, vancouver, canada.
that's all for today, have a good one, peter.
best regards: kamal al fahoum p.s in the short period of time since obtaining my type rating many companies have shown their interest toward me my critique of the a320 course with aat global inc.
i had 2  instructors, both of them were very experienced airline pilots and very nice
he requested the answers come  from a graduate that recently completed the a320 course (1) what type rating did you complete and what was your prior flying  experience?
they were ready to help any time day or night.
overall i am happy i completed the type rating successfully.
jon katahara to whom it may concern i adib
it took a lot of effort (5 hours of computer  based training plus extensive studying at night for weeks on end.
mechanical engineering, masters in aeronautical engineering, atplwarwick  obtained a first officers position with air vietnam because he attained the  a320 type rating.
my first 3 flights will be from the jump seat as an observer and it will be to (hesh) which is a resort called sharm el sheik in egypt.
once we were in the level c or d simulator, our knowledge and abilities came together with the assistance of some excellent instructor led sessions by both tim and scott.
i am very pleased and happy with my training and hopefully when i get a job i will definitely be back for an upgrade to the a330 and a340.
before i detail my thoughts; the summary: starting the course i was  optimistic and impressed by the setup, however, as the course progressed, i  became disappointed and more concerned that there was a lack of training.
it is a desktop simulator but  is no way near a game like microsoft simulator.
the examiners claimed to be impressed with our final rides and assumed that we had experience far beyond that of our resumes.
but don't expect the instructor to ease off.
if we had simply used the school sop's and had  a stronger third instructor then 3 sessions may well have been enough'..
overall i am happy i completed the type rating  successfully.
pharmaceutical science.
walt, i really want to apologize for  my unprofessional behavior and sarcasm after the 737 training and as mentioned  before thank you very much for paving the way in my new career.
oh then he asked me to do an ils approach with nav accuracy low
the internet-course was very helpful and i was surprised how quick i got your package.
then gear down so now you're in direct law
thank you again   astvaldur draupnisson (with a 'v') p.s. astvaldur  received a boeing 757/767 rating with distinction to: aat global inc.
kenn borek air provides the  same style of training, however, due to being 704 ops and a far simpler  airplane ' dhc-6, the ground training can be completed in as little as 5 days.
i had 2 instructors, both of them were very experienced airline pilots and very nice guys.
dear walt, how are you and how is everything.
it's well programmed software and allows you to program a whole flight  and then fly it.
k.f. toronto,  canada p.s. kevin received a boeing 757/767 rating with distinction hi walt, just a quick note to express thanks for going the  extra mile with us.
well first the president of aat global played a huge part of the training conducted.
however, you can be pretty  sure that both of us will build upon what you taught us, and work really hard  to be a good average or better ... should we ever get to flying the real  airplane!
i had the opportunity to  complete my command rating on the a320 aircraft utilizing the facilities  provided by aat global, vancouver, canada.
there are lots of negative rumours out there and that's all they are'.rumours.
the instructors were thorough and thing ran without a hitch.
he is  calm, thorough, clear, friendly and patient.
with this company based out of (heca) cairo international.
his level of knowledge and experience is not even an issue to be questioned.
my expectations for the course were partly based upon the active  website but, primarily my own experience with prior training.
not to stall it but the recovery in direct law.
overall the course was intensive, professional, i personally would  think i learned from a professional environment.
4 ' 12 hour days in the cold flight training device for procedure training to get ourselves ready for the simulator.
10 out of 10 having the level-d sim for flight simulator available to students is a great idea.
he is calm, thorough, clear, friendly and patient.
i personally didn't spend anything more than the quoted $15,800.
for those pilots who have yet to be exposed to high performance aircraft and/or the complex systems found in today's modern airliners, aat global provides a well designed ground school program which will guide the student along at his/her own pace.
looking back at the last 5 years, i am very grateful to you for actually getting the ball rolling in my aviation career.
how long did you spend in canada?
(6) free play trainer...
i have one week to study their sop's and aircraft specs.
and i have regular public transport experience in all of the above countries.
good luck and give my warmest regards to walt and len capt.
after enduring over a hundred hours of ground schooling and 25 hours in a fixed base flight training device, the full motion sim will seem a welcome relief.
then a normal t/o with an engine out at v1 just like we did then continue  with a circuit and an approach then a go around with the failed engine after  the ils approach at minima.
i congratulate you for getting me thru an extremely difficult  course very quickly and efficiently!
i left the suncor oil plant in alberta to come to you for 737  training, wrote the iatra, did the instrument rating, wrote the 2 atpl exams,  came up to cambridge bay, got ppcs on the twin-otter, both the king air 100 and  200, just went to tucson, arizona to flight safety and did the learjet  training, and now already have 52 hours on the lear.
basically you will get out of the course what you put into it.
walt has been very helpful to  me in the upkeep of my license.
after going back i would definitely miss the long  morning walk in the minuro park.
with a canadian license, you have to renew your type rating every 2 years, and walt has been very helpful in setting up an instrument renewal for me.
then gear down so now you're in direct law and he asks you to order your pnf to select gear and flaps plus to make things easy for you a 25 degree angle of bank ( dirty config ) and stall the damn thing.
on the negative side, cheap looking cockpit  posters and a weak type rating ground school with confusion which may very well  be resolved on future courses, especially, as we were the first to attempt a  course using non-school sop's
it was a great help in understanding how the different  systems work before you start the official ground school course.
mohamad zein 29/11/2006 dear walt, i would like to thank aat global for the a320  course.
coming from a turbo prop back ground and not having any jet time,  it was a challenge.
you can finish the home study in the matter of a week, but don't base your  course commencement on that.
this created some confusion for us and was not resolved until the end of the fixed base sim.
in for the excellent training program i had on the boieng 737-200.
walt has been very helpful to me in the upkeep of my license.
herbert law captain/check airman
(5) quality of simulator?
he was really impressed.
sincerely, david williams to whom it may concern: my full name is alan lord, i currently hold a valid australian, new zealand, us faa atp/mel/cfi and a png senior commercial license.
hopefully i might be able to find something.
this in itself is testament to the level of flight training provided.
i would wish all the success for aat global and i like to do my ppc renewal at aat global thanks a lot for everything first office ziad
a320, 330,340,757,767,737-200 is  available in vancouver.
nevertheless i decided to start a course with you and as i said i have no regrets that i did so.
i was very pleased about your quick response about all my questions i had before starting the course.
amir recommendation of warwick green dec 16th 2004.
you can finish the home study in the matter of a week, but don't base your course commencement on that.
i became happier as we came closer to attaining our goal.
i would also like to express my sincere gratitude to instructor capt.
the examiner mr. steve cunningham also proved himself to be very professional and friendly.
and that was the end of  it.
k.f. toronto, canada p.s. kevin received a boeing 757/767 rating with distinction hi walt, just a quick note to express thanks for going the extra mile with us.
i also want you to thank len and tell him the good news.
rashid 2466 eglinton ave east toronto.
and i hope you tell len about the check ride so he can add those  exercises for future students.
well it is easy for me to say because i passed the check ride but one thing i know i did not get it for free.
i now have the a320 validated on my australian  atp,and plan to continue my training on the a330/340 with active late this year.
we were so used to having lots of emergencies  on our hand that on the actual flight test we were all yawning from boredom  even with one engine failed and fire on go around.
whereas, i was surprised to find no instructor lead technical ground school at active, however, cbt's are supposed to negate the need for instructor lead classrooms, and in no way affects my opinion of the course'just an observation.
do you still do the 737 training?
i would wish  all the success for aat global and i like to do my ppc renewal at aat global thanks a lot for everything first office ziad
there are lots of negative rumours out there and that's all  they are'.rumours.
early this year (2007)
basically you will get out of the course what you put  into it.
the instructor for the airbus course is one of the most experienced professionals in the airline industry and aat global is indeed fortunate to have him on staff.
he thought us how to walk before  running, he started his lesson plan with the number rule of teaching, known to  unknown, familiar to unfamiliar, easy to difficult.
holland a critique from anthony chidiac i can say that i am  satisfied with the course in general.
i don't know what type you are  considering to get but a320 is a fully managed airplane that you need to fly  via the computers.
they or let me say we fly to moscow, paris, madrid,  rome,etc.. cool stuff.
august 8th, 2004 dear sir i would like to thank our instructors scott and  peter as they were very helpful and very dedicated to our goal in achieving our  type rating.
i think that we started off on a bad note  with kaz.
my  only advice to people out there is; don't let someone's opinion be your reality.
and he asks you to order your pnf to select gear and flaps plus to make things  easy for you a 25 degree angle of bank ( dirty config ) and stall the damn  thing.
i personally felt at home with the instructor i have known for a  short time mr. walt here at aat global made the course very  understandable  and gave us a wealth of information which he achieved from  his past airline experience.
dear walt lazaruk, this is the message i received from the dutch authorities and i can confirm to you that what you wrote is correct.
anyway, i learned a lot and it was  fun
i had also  bought a copy of level-d 767 for flight simulator 2004 and familiarized myself  with it.
a success story from amir of egypt
having never flown anything larger than a dash 8, nor, having any jet experience, 3 sessions with an instructor for the ground school was quite weak for us.
i personally didn't  spend anything more than the quoted $15,800.
i just completed the course and i found the boeing 767/757 course to be a very good course
having said that, the course has its levels and steps that has to be down in  sequence and each step is prerequisite to the next level, you have to  understand that cbt, sim cost lots of money and neither you nor they can afford  to push you into the next level of the course while knowing that you are not  ready.
i found the  course well organized.
cargojet and air canada jazz provide approximately 3 weeks of classroom, instructor led ground school covering systems, sop's and company ops for the b727 and dash 8 respectively.
i cannot say enough positive  things about their knowledge, training styles and demeanour making for a very  conducive learning environment.
but even better was the 15 day internet training i took  before i arrived.
after that i will move right into the right  seat with a supervising captain in the jump seat.
therefore, i would like to highlight the type of training that i have received in the past as this is the only basis of comparison for me.
ready for the simulator.
flight training ' full sim ' 10 out of 10 overall the course offers, strong instructors in tim and scott, great facilities, and an accommodating director/owner.
but maybe also my english writing is a bit no sensitive.
although one might think you could just sit back and coast to get a pass, you are wrong.
kenn borek air provides the same style of training, however, due to being 704 ops and a far simpler airplane ' dhc-6, the ground training can be completed in as little as 5 days.
so i had to use raw data and rose ils and not arc
a320, 330,340,757,767,737-200 is available in vancouver.
i truly believe when it comes to  walt nothing is hidden, the first day he sat down with all three of us and read  and explained in real english the whole contract, clarified and answered any of  our questions along the way.
more from your q2; len (instructor) started teaching us way beyond the standard of the course and as our performance allowed we covered multiple emergencies, wired scenarios, challenging weather environments.
overall the course was intensive, professional, i personally would think i learned from a professional environment.
it was for my own good  which really made me more self confident when i go on the line.
sukh sergill a success story from amir of egypt
which again comes back down to the money, as every min of your sim time is  valuable and trust me you don't want to spend more than a min of your time  figuring out how to reprogram the mcdu.
oh another thing he gave me was dual hyd g and b sys failure which is an emergency situation although it was mostly stuff done by my pnf except for the landing gear manual extension and slat and flap jamming which i order him to do depending on the ecam call that he gave me.
i am in contact  with both fabien and claude and we are all optimistic.
althoug at times the student may feel as though he/she is overwhelmed, it is clear that the insructor has a vested interest on an individul's progress; the instruction is the polar opposite to the typical flight-training environment where instructors are only mindful of themselves.
cargojet and air canada jazz provide approximately  3 weeks of classroom, instructor led ground school covering systems, sop's and  company ops for the b727 and dash 8 respectively.
july 16,2007 hi walt, i just wanted to say that my type rating course at aat global was a great experience.
so remember if you know your procedures, then you will pass.
that was i what wanted, that was what was  offered, and that is what i got.
however with the help of you and your instructors i was  able to complete it and was commended by mike dressler on a good job.
frans van der drift holland a critique from anthony chidiac i can say that i am satisfied with the course in general.
a-320 a-330 type attention: walt lazaruk aat global feb 15.08 re: b767 type rating walt i just wanted to give you some feedback on the type rating i took through aat global.
of course this is only a small aspect of the entire type rating but you must understand it was also the first impression i had.
walt is the first one to offer this to you.
i  already had a copy at home, as did wes, and we used this a great deal for  practicing cockpit flows and flight procedures.
besides i had to study their sop's which is a lot different than the ones we had even though they all lead to the same result.
finally after years and years  of hard work, training, study, exams, flight tests, medical exams, and license  conversions, i did it.
they or let me say we fly to moscow, paris, madrid, rome,etc.. cool stuff.
testimonials instructors qualification price comparisons contact us today for details on how we can best serve your requirements.
the 737 plane in the bcit  hanger is big advantage as it helps with your cockpit flows and also gives you  familiarization with the plane.
10 out of 10 having  the level-d sim for flight simulator available to students is a great idea.
summing up my experience with your  course i must say that the negative rumours are wrong.
the course can be done from in few weeks to few months, is all depend on your progress.
i knew that i should use selected speed but then to increase the rate of descent lowering the gear below fl250 and below 250 kts then selecting speed to 270 and then at 10000 retracting the gear but first selecting speed 220.
of course i did a lot of other stuff like engine vibration above 4.3 for n2 and egpws and tcas , and a lot of other stuff which was a piece of cake.
the test after the session was an innovative idea to  test your threshold knowledge about the systems.
after going back i would definitely miss the long morning walk in the minuro park.
harald dear walt, i did it.
i really i appreciate all of your help and assistance with my a-330 transition type i received through aat global.
with this  company based out of (heca) cairo international.
i can't think of any one else who  could have done as well as you ...
once again i thank you for your help.
there are several instructors training but walt runs the whole thing, which is nice.
and i was thinking that they might be temporary until i had made full payment,  they were not.
the confusion and the one weak instructor left us a little dissatisfied;  however, this has been discussed in length and was ultimately resolved to our  satisfaction.
by the way the examiner was very pleased and he told me that your level of training is maybe a guy who has at least 300 hrs on the actual aircraft.
yours in flying, dear walt, my experience with aat global was throughout very  positive.
the internet-course was very helpful and i was  surprised how quick i got your package.
aat global is an obvious choice, not only for the airline, but also for those individuals looking to get a leg up on the competition.
i became happier as we  came closer to attaining our goal.
but even better was the 15 day internet training i took before i arrived.
i would have liked to have more time to  prepare for the ground school and the simulator.
you must be prepared to put in a lot of study hours.
the standard is very high when you do the check ride.
sop's / type rating ground   school ' 6 out of 10
here are some just for you to know and tell len about so he can introduce to the future students.
the day wise course plan helps you with the planning process a day ahead.
exactly 6 days earlier then promised.
i cannot say enough positive things about their knowledge, training styles and demeanour making for a very conducive learning environment.
regards, dan sattler hi walt, i hope all is well.
he thought us how to walk before running, he started his lesson plan with the number rule of teaching, known to unknown, familiar to unfamiliar, easy to difficult.
i did very well in my interview today and i will be flying as an f/o starting april 1st
however, i used my good airman ship and made a nice smooth landing and he was very impressed.
not even an issue, great cbt, and level c or d approved by transport  canada.
the 737 plane in the bcit hanger is big advantage as it helps with your cockpit flows and also gives you familiarization with the plane.
now to make my  day, on the roll out, he gave me an engine fire on the ground which was  straight forward and that was followed by evacuation.
pan am flight academy north west training center alteon air canada
i want to take the opportunity to thank mr. walt for all the effort he  spend on us over and to wish him all the best.
it is obvious that the instructor wants the student to succeed and he is more than willing to help out when the student feels he/she is falling behind.
the instructors and check airmen are very  helpful and interested in teaching you the proper techniques for flying the  aircraft in different situations.
he will provide airline specific training at the highest level, far above and beyond the requirements for transport canada.
thanks again walt for all your effort and help and send my regards to len and wish me luck.
remember that there are extra costs if you 'do' need extra help in the sim or briefing, ..etc
the computer based ground school enabled me to  pass the final written exam without too many problems.
lawrence itani nov 29th, 2006 to whom it may concernbeing trained at aat global inc i felt being taken care of and received all what i need and more.
in fact, the training will continue to become more and more demanding the further into the course and, when you've completed the flight test you will be amazed at how much you've accomplished.
i had a very  good flight instructor and excellent flight training.
he is a loyal and honest person.
the instructors and simulator availabilities were to my  full satisfaction.
you must take  the initiative to prepare yourself completely for all aspects of the course,  before you undertake each segment of the training.
my total flight time is just over 12,000hrs
i was very pleased about your quick response about all my questions i  had before starting the course.
i am completely satisfied with the training provided by aat global and in particular with the instruction given .
i should have wrote that maybe in a different way on the piece of paper you gave us
they insisted that we call  them at home if i had any questions or problems whatsoever.
global was a great experience.
i thought he gave me a very straight forward yet challenging check ride and knows his stuff..!!
el-homsy, beirut lebanon to whom it may  concern                                          november 29,2006
the whole work environment at aat global and  with mr. walt lazaruk was very professional and pleasant.
after spending $18,000, a set of colour, original cockpit  posters might be a nice idea.
i would also like to thank my instructor len who handled me with nothing but professionalism.
you have been helpful improving comfort ability with the plane itself and thereby building my confidence.
i thought  he gave me a very straight forward yet challenging check ride and knows his  stuff..!!
well first the president of aat global played a huge part of the training  conducted.
it would be nice to do the  training in the simulator during the day.
towards the later half of the course (the flight sim)
in the end i bought a set of cockpit posters from aviation world for around $50.
peter frenzel march 23, 2004 dear mr. lazurk, i would like to take this opportunity to thank you for the all the help and support put forth by you in making me successful for the type rating for the boeing 737.
st. pierre, who brings a world of knowledge and experience  on the airbus a-330 and a-340 series for which i was very impressed.
remember that  there are extra costs if you 'do' need extra help in the sim or briefing, ..etc  but they are not hidden and this issue is well explained in that first day talk  and review of the contract with walt.
i can add a foreign (canadian) type rating on my jar fcl with a restriction which be lifted after 500hours on the same type.
we only cancelled one session and that was due to heavy  thunderstorm activities outside that introduced power surges to the system.
after that i will move right into the right seat with a supervising captain in the jump seat.
best regards sincerely,
the only thing i didn't  enjoy was the late simulator sessions.
he is an extremely honest and professional person who delivered on all of his promises and more.
gary scott who is an excellent instructor who i would highly recommend to future candidates.
walt tries to sell this pretty hard, is it that helpful?
the simulator was very good and enjoyed all of the training.
kalboussi seyfullah belgium p.s. seyfullah has been hired by a mainland chinese airline because he has a type rating.
it would be nice to do the training in the simulator during the day.
having a laptop with you would help as you can review the systems back in the comfort of your hotel room.
as for walt, a very nice person, good professionalism.
any other information that you feel beneficial, please pass on.
i was first confused because i was flying as a pf from the right seat and not the left as we used to do in vancouver.
it's well programmed software and allows you to program a whole flight and then fly it.
so if you again know how to operate the a/p(mcp) and the fms,sops.
i'm gonna send an e-mail to fabien,  claude, and sameer and let them know as well.
he requested the answers come from a graduate that recently completed the a320 course (1) what type rating did you complete and what was your prior flying experience?
mr lazaruk, walt was very informative and quite confident in inducing his type rating of the b737 rating.
the instructors mr. steve st. pierre and mr. mike maryowski were extremely knowledgable and patient and had the ability to pass the knowledge on to me in a very professional and friendly manner.
you must take the initiative to prepare yourself completely for all aspects of the course, before you undertake each segment of the training.
great bunch of guys to deal with!!
in flying the  b737-200 plus after what i received, i felt more confident flying this plane,  for i really saw and passed through all tlypes of situations that might occur  with us on our line operation.
my expectations for the course were partly based upon the active website but, primarily my own experience with prior training.
after this 500hours i will have to do a proficiency check in a jar fcl simulator and then i will get the atpl license.
the simulator was good experience with detail initial briefing and de-briefings.
it was a great help in understanding how the different systems work before you start the official ground school course.
course material ' 7 out of 10 previously, when using cbt software, i had found that the cbt was for use at  home prior to commencement of the course and daily review and then used as the  basis for a structured taught ground school.
aat global allowed me to obtain a type rating for the airbus 320 within the precalculated budget and infact less time than foreseen.
as mr. walt said it is good bussines for him and my self if i get a job some where as a f/o on the b767/757 so help you after all in all, i was very satisfied with the whole course.
i  have to start from the accommodation as the hotel was very nice and clean and  the price was wonderful.
yours in flying, wes gardner edmonton, alberta dear walt, my experience with aat global was throughout very positive.
i found the computer based training  course very helpful.
the course is  short and the simulator hours are not what an upgrade with an airline gives  you.
this created  some confusion for us and was not resolved until the end of the fixed base sim.
my special thank go to captain walt lazaruk for a job well done yours sincerely antone medwar vancouver 24/11/2006
having said that, the course has its levels and steps that has to be down in sequence and each step is prerequisite to the next level, you have to understand that cbt, sim cost lots of money and neither you nor they can afford to push you into the next level of the course while knowing that you are not ready.
these companies have very thorough ground school and flight training programs and are the basis for my comparison.
i also appreciate the fact that a this was the first time that active had attempted to use another companies sop's.
the course met with my expectations.
(i will explain what i mean from 'instructor' more in details in your question about the instructor) (3) did you complete the training at the advertised price that walt quoted you?
in retrospect, if scott is running the 767 side of the course  then, day 1, it would be useful to have a sit down with the students to explain  how the course will run.
it's a great company with great management and i am really excited.
finally after years and years of hard work, training, study, exams, flight tests, medical exams, and license conversions, i did it.
i congratulate you for getting me thru an extremely difficult course very quickly and efficiently!
coming from a turbo prop back ground and not having any jet time, it was a challenge.
i have heard many good things about him from pilots here at viva.
peter frenzel march 23, 2004 dear mr. lazurk, i would  like to take this opportunity to thank you for the all the help and support put  forth by you in making me successful for the type rating for the boeing 737.
by far the most enjoyable (and demanding) portion of the program was the 20 hours in the full motion simulator.
that was very interesting because as soon as you advance to toga the yaw is incredible and you have to apply full rudder bearing in mind that you are off the autopilot which had disconnected at minima.
technical ground school /cbt '
amr received a job with memphis airways in egypt because he attained a type rating on the airbus a320 to: aat global inc august 8th, 2004 my training for a boeing 757 & 767 type rating.
your 737 course really helped me with my lear training as well.
i am very happy with my experience at aat global.
how did you find the home study?
el-homsy, beirut lebanon to whom it may concern november 29,2006
the computer based ground school enabled me to pass the final written exam without too many problems.
i found the computer based training course very helpful.
prior to starting the course, i was able to download a copy of the boeing 767 cbt from the internet and thoroughly worked through it before starting the active course.
that i did very very  very well even though i never did it before.
actually much more than i ever thought of.
the test after the session was an innovative idea to test your threshold knowledge about the systems.
i truly believe when it comes to walt nothing is hidden, the first day he sat down with all three of us and read and explained in real english the whole contract, clarified and answered any of our questions along the way.
my point is, the more you get yourself ready for the course and the more input is from you the more result you will get from the instructor and the course in general.
the course can be done from in  few weeks to few months, is all depend on your progress.
so i had to use raw data and rose ils and not arc plus he gave me a 90 degree cross wind at 15 kts and i had to land the damn thing.
i also  appreciate the fact that a this was the first time  that active had  attempted to use another companies sop's.
we were so used to having lots of emergencies on our hand that on the actual flight test we were all yawning from boredom even with one engine failed and fire on go around.
for me this  experienced will always act as a foundation towards building my career.
a special note for examiner capt.
this is to certify that captain walt lazaruk executive president of aat global inc has given me all the necessary information and procedures to fly the b737-200 in a very short time and in a really professional way.
more from your q2;  len (instructor) started teaching us way beyond the standard of the course and  as our performance allowed we covered multiple emergencies, wired scenarios,  challenging weather environments.
missing from the course was weight and balance  instruction.
if we had simply used the school sop's and had a stronger third instructor then 3 sessions may well have been enough'..
again, at times, the student may seem overwhelmed but by the fourth or fifth session, things will begin to take shape.
mr lazaruk, walt was very  informative and quite confident in inducing his type rating of the b737 rating.
in my opinion mainly , the alternate law direct law , stall , recovery , 45 degree bank and structural damage with emergency decent where you extend the landing gear were the toughest exercises.
looking back at the last  5 years, i am very grateful to you for actually getting the ball rolling in my  aviation career.
however with the help of you and your instructors i was able to complete it and was commended by mike dressler on a good job.
believe it or not i had to do some stuff in the ppc ride which i never did in vancouver.
i know the sim is still there as a captain for first air (ian blewett) just did his recurrent on that sim 2 weeks ago.
therefore, i would  like to highlight the type of training that i have received in the past as this  is the only basis of comparison for me.
both were willing to go the extra mile to answer any questions we had and offered their personal phone numbers in case we had questions.
once again, i wanted to show my appreciation and would highly recommend  aat global to my colleagues in the future for training on the airbus.
once we were in the level c or d simulator, our  knowledge and abilities came together with the assistance of some excellent  instructor led sessions by both tim and scott.
however, you can be pretty sure that both of us will build upon what you taught us, and work really hard to be a good average or better ... should we ever get to flying the real airplane!
after providing the $3000 deposit, i was able to pick up the course material and it was very much what i was expecting with regards to the copies of the boeing manuals, however, the photocopied cockpit wall posters were difficult to read and i was thinking that they might be temporary until i had made full payment, they were not.
i am in contact with both fabien and claude and we are all optimistic.
at present i am a training  captain on the baej32ep type aircraft for a part 125 operator based in  wellington, new zealand.
to whom it may concern i undersigned antoime medowar wish to extend my gratitude to aat global in for the excellent training program i had on the boieng 737-200.
a320 ' atpl - 7500 hours total with light business jet and medium transport turboprop.
i still have  all your 737 books and cockpit diagrams and am reading through them as my heart  is really set on getting the 737 rating and hopefully being able to fly one  soon.
the following documents needed from the type rating course: 1.course completion certificate of the trto.
we had len for our course,  he is a 767 captain with air canada with almost every boeing product in his  logbook, and he also flew a320 as a captain with air canada for few years.
i was treated very well and in a professional manner and enjoyed my training.
here are some just  for you to know and tell len about so he can introduce to the future students.
gerald weber kamloops, british columbia aat global 767 course critique naturally, with any course or training programs their will be a mix of positive and negative opinions depending upon the candidate's background and experience.
once  again i thank you for your help.
all the best harald summer salzburg, austria the following email, is an answer to a request, from a prospective  student, asking for information on the program.
and the cheapest way to learn it is using the free play trainer.
as i told you many times, i was extremely happy with  your course and i can recommend aat global to anybody.
at present i am a training captain on the baej32ep type aircraft for a part 125 operator based in wellington, new zealand.
i had a very good flight instructor and excellent flight training.
missing from the course was weight and balance instruction.
i have tons to do but hey no complains, after 4 years of hard work this is nothing.
amir recommendation of warwick  green dec 16th 2004.
the instructors  were thorough and thing ran without a hitch.
you may find some negative comments about him and his organization on prune
and i made an emergency descent once without structural damage like we were trained so i descended at 340 kits
although one might think you could just sit back and coast  to get a pass, you are wrong.
i would like to thank you walt for all the support and the help you've given me.
if you aspire to earn a large aircraft endorsement but wish to observe a training session first, we can offer you the observer seat on a full flight airbus or boeing simulator.
it's a great company with great management and i am really  excited.
that was very interesting because as soon as you  advance to toga the yaw is incredible and you have to apply full rudder bearing  in mind that you are off the autopilot which had disconnected at minima.
i really enjoyed dealing with walt.
cameo pourghanad 'a320 course comments, from our graduate student- harald summer,  from austria' about my critique: i did a lot of research about aat  global on the internet and especially on prune quite a number of people on  prune did not talk very positive about aat global.
my total  flight time is just over 12,000hrs and i have regular public transport  experience in all of the above countries.
it was condensed lots of studying, lots of reading but all in all at the end it was very fruitful and rewarding.
i did a normal t/o without autopilot involvement just to see how i handle the aircraft then a circuit and an ils approach and landing hand flying it all the way.
in flying the b737-200 plus after what i received, i felt more confident flying this plane, for i really saw and passed through all tlypes of situations that might occur with us on our line operation.
my sincere  thanks for all your efforts!
anyway thanks again for all your help i really appreciate it.
mr.. walt lazaruk went out of his way to ensure top notch tuition and first class instructors were available.
why did i take my rating here it because mr. walt said that he know people at orient thai
i just think we got off on the wrong foot.
he uses the air canada's simulators.
but i don't think that you just will pass because you have paid for a type rating.
let's  say the ink on my license with the new type rating was drying up on the 25th of  may.
the course is not spoon fed and may not be suitable for students with limited experience or are unable to work self-paced.
the computer based ground school was very  informative tool to learning and the best part about it was that it helps you  learn at you own pace.
special thanks to mr. walt for the rich training we had and  all the care given
i do thank you for the way you handled our concern.
the day wise course plan helps you  with the planning process a day ahead.
if you are looking for the most efficient and cost effective  program then this is for you, but then again you can go to other organizations  and pay two or three times more for the same program which may end up being  less in the end.
i have no hesitation in recommending aat global to anyone who is thinking along the lines of a rating.
this is to certify that captain walt lazaruk executive president of aat  global inc has given me all the necessary information and procedures to fly the  b737-200 in a very short time and in a really professional way.
best of luck to all in aat global.
type rating is one of the most important steps after obtaining your pilot license from a general aviation school.
the cbt is excellent.
let's say the ink on my license with the new type rating was drying up on the 25th of may.
i am completely satisfied with the training provided by aat global and in  particular with the instruction given .
anyway thanks again for all your  help i really appreciate it.
i can't think of any one else who could have done as well as you ...
i have completed an airbus a318/a319/a320/a321 course  at aat global inc.  my instructor was captain len harding.
thanks walt, i now have the 767/757 on my licence.
the instructors and check airmen are all current air canada captains, or retired from air canada, so they have a wealth of knowledge and experience for you to draw on.
until then all the best.
of course the more knowledge and familiarity you  have with the airplane the more you will benefit from the course and  instructor.
your 737 course really  helped me with my lear training as well.
august 8th, 2004 dear sir i would like to thank our instructors scott and peter as they were very helpful and very dedicated to our goal in achieving our type rating.
a320 type rating march 13,2005.
i would also like to thank my  instructor len who handled me with nothing but professionalism.
both were willing to go  the extra mile to answer any questions we had and offered their personal phone  numbers in case we had questions.
got the the instructors telephone number and i should just call and ask if i did not understand something.
free play trainer is a great learning tool.
where there any hidden extra's?