then again, maybe it's maximum  resolution you should be aiming for?
going in, we'd expected that it would be a finely balanced process of playing off image quality settings and frame rates.
posted in: compare, depth,gaming of course, everybody knows high-end pc components are piddle-poor value for money.
funny (1) future (2) gadgets (20) galaxy (20) games (5) gamify (1) gaming (2) german (2) getting (1) girls (1)
and our budget-oriented alternative?
we'll chuck that into the mix for context.
if it feels the same, who cares if it runs 10 times faster?
itechee | powered by blogger design by free wordpress themes | bloggerized by lasantha - premium blogger themes | 100 wp themes
that doesn't mean we'll be excluding  overall system performance entirely.
mostly it was a case of dropping the  anti-aliasing from 8x to 4x (though crysis 2 doesn't actually offer proper aa,  which is probably a big help) and tweaking just a handful of further settings.
stark (1) stars (2) start (1) startled (1) starts (1) startups (1) stats (2) steam (1) steel (1) steps (1) steve (1) still (4) stock (2) stockholders (1) storage (1) store (5) stores (4) stories (1) story (3) straight (1) stream (1) streaming (1) street (1) streets (1) stripped (1) students (1) studio (1
so, while there will always be a few exceptions, we reckon our chosen trio gives a pretty decent picture of overall gaming performance.
later (1) launch (7) launched (1) launches (10) league (1) leaked (1) leaks (1) learn (1) learning (1) least (1) legal (1) lenovos (1) lessons (1) licensing
skip to main | skip to sidebar powered by blogger.
coming (2) commando (1) commerce (1) commercial (1) company (3) compare (1) competition (1) complying (1) confirm (1) confirmed (1) confirms (1) construction (1) consumer (1) content (1) continues (1) copying (1) copytousb (1) could (4) counteraction (1) court (1) cover (2) cowen (2) crack (1)
another for those  on a tight budget.
our money-no-object rig weighs in at nearly £3,000 for those components alone.
craigslist (1) cream (1) creates (1) creator (1) credit (3) crowd (1)
the control screen we've gone for is a 24-inch example.
going in, we'd expected that it would be a  finely balanced process of playing off image quality settings and frame rates.
and its execution reeks of console-port compromises.
as well as adding storage performance into the mix, we also asked our testers more specific questions regarding performance and image quality.
we wanted an unbiased assessment of the in-game  experience, something that can be coloured by sitting through a lengthy level  load.
taking that logic and running with it a little further, we've removed another image-related stipulation.
one reason for this is the undeniable influence  that console games have on game engines.
but we think our reasoning makes sense and that is this comparison isn't about the numbers.
there's absolutely no question the high-end machine with its ultra-fast ssd storage was much quicker during the installations.
obviously, there's a little more to it than that.
you don't need us to tell you intel's latest £800 six-core  monster, the core i7 3960x, isn't eight times as good as a £100 quad-core  amd phenom ii.
plus coming to india for march ... - workaround allows new iphoto and imovie to be inst... - telus ad channels mc hammer, but the message is 50... - motoactv sees a new software update bringing a sle... - samsung galaxy s iii: rumor round-up - izon
immediately, that plays into the hands of the cheaper system.
elder scrolls v: skyrim made the cut  because it's a super hot title, it looks great, it's fairly demanding and it  ticks the large-levels and long-draw distance boxes.
our final candidate is dirt 3.
it's to find out whether it makes the slightest difference to the way games look and feel.
the  two systems are not required to run at the same image quality settings in-game.
likewise, for any given game, does knocking settings such as shader or shadow quality down make a big difference to perceived image quality?
indeed, tuning up the cheapo machine was intriguing.
the challenge will be  getting the low-end system right.
- all ipad 3 facts, all hilarious - mwc 2012:
worldwide (1) would (1) wrong (2) xooms (1) xperia (4) years (3) yesterdays (2)
our reasoning was to allow roughly £100 each for the low end rig.
but  obvious omissions such as, perhaps an mmorpg such as wow don't tend to be  hugely performance intensive.
(1) schedule (1) scheme (1) schmidt (1) schooled (1) scintillating (1) scores (2) screen (4) screws (1) search (1) second (1) seconds (3)
perhaps, but only if the system in question doesn't double as a multi-purpose desktop.
however, one thing you should be very clear about is that we won't be  compromising the settings on the high-end rig.
we wanted a driving game in the mix and there's no  doubting dirt 3 is a looker.
the  vast majority of pc monitors from 22- to 30-inch and beyond now sport a 1,920 x  1,080 pixel grid.
what does matter is that 1080p pixel grid.
next up is crysis 2.
chop the frame rate in half and that's a different matter, especially if the result ever dips below 30 frames per second.
from the outset we'd decided that running at 1080p native resolution was essential, so that bit was easy.
we wanted a driving game in the mix and there's no doubting dirt 3 is a looker.
did one or the other deliver a noticeably  smoother frame rate or superior response to mouse and keyboard inputs?
would you go for the largest possible display?
serving (1) sexual (1) shape (1) sharing (1) shell (1) shelves (1) shipments (1) shoebox (1) shooting (1) should (1) shouldnt (1) shows (2)
to do that, we've built two very different systems, focussing on the three core components that influence performance.
there's absolutely no question the high-end machine with its  ultra-fast ssd storage was much quicker during the installations.
our final  candidate is dirt 3.
with our systems specified, built and saddled up with a fresh copy of windows 7, the next task was game title selection.
here's why - apple's jony ive speaks about apple product design... - apple drops a patent and some claims against samsu... - carrier 86's the android flavored t-mobile sidekic... - at&t said to delay launch of the nokia lumia 900; ... - samsung galaxy s ii hd lte for at&t meets fcc - politix wants to be the center of your political i... - nokia’s 20-f: a stark picture of declines in almos... - path launches 2.1 update: music match, nike+ suppo... - tim cook talks ios device stats: 315 million sold,... - ios 5.1 update: siri speaks japanese; voice dictat... - mobile ad network millennial media will list on th... - stamped updated for sxsw: better maps, search & au... - new round of financing for instagram values compan... - juniper: nfc payments to reach $74 billion worldwi... - location app highlight gets clever update that fea... - social passport marries nfc with social media for ... - c spire wireless joins the lte club with plans to ... - heyzap launches an api, uses it to build a mobile ... -
next was a test starting from the desktop and involving loading, first, the main game interface and then a game level, after which further game play and general impressions were taken.
here’s how much apple will shell ... - flip to hand over sharing platform flipshare to gi... - after 2+ years of serving apps, windows mobile mar... - u.s. cellular reps scanned customers phones for nu... - new nokia ads: a day with the nokia lumia 800 and ... - htc one x and its quad-core tegra 3 visit the fcc ... - future shop turns the nokia lumia 800 into the nok... - apple says demand for its new ipad is "off the cha... - amazon will give you credit for your old apple ipa... - instagram for android spotted at sxsw - china may not see 4g for another 2-3 years - htc titan pulls a disappearing act at uk retailers... - march madness bracket apps for iphone, android and... - iphoto for ipad review - smartphones are “the new pc," says infinity blade ... - lenovo's 9.7" android ics ideatab clears the fcc f... - samsung accused by apple of only partially complyi... - samsung galaxy tab 7.7 lte review - straight from a horror story: human "homeless hots... - apple's brand is not destroying the world - 10 must-have ipad games - smartphone displays need a bezel.
day two recap - at&t confirms sony tablet p release date will be m... - watch htc's entire mwc press event that launched t... - zte pf 100 hands-on review - htc claims it's still in the running for the next ... - trade-ins for apple's tablets jump tenfold on ebay... - htc one x specs review - zte orbit has nfc inside, microsoft might actively... - apple inc., made in america - zte mimosa x hands-on review - new app stats arrive for android developers - samsung galaxy ace 2 hands-on review - htc: ice cream sandwich will start hitting our han... - cinemagram turns iphone photos into animated gifs ... - linkedin will introduce ads to mobile apps - glancee: a nice-guy ambient social location app fo... - you can buy me love, but please don’t buy me gadge... - classpager lets teachers quiz and remind students ... - reportgrid launches precog to help you turn big da... - the doro phoneeasy 740: finally, an android phone ... - izettle launches in the nordics, uk launch on the ... share - popular - tags - blog archives popular posts - 955 dreams raises $3.25 million seed round, launches “band of the day” on ipad - the soul still burns: classic brawler soul calibur lands
overclocking (1) overtakes (1) owners (2) panasonic (2) pantech (2) papayamobile (1) parrot (1) partially (1) partner (1) partnership (1) passport (1) patent (1) patents (2) payments (1) people (1) percent (1) permanente (1) permission (1) personal (1) peter (1) phone (8) phoneeasy (1) phones (4) photography (1) photos (3) picture (1) pictures (1) plangrid (1) plans (5) platform (4) playbook (3) plays (1) please (1) pocket (1) pointofsale (1) polar (1) political (1) politix (1) poorly (1) popularity (1) portrait (1) possible
facebook pageviews in depth: can a £300 gaming pc compare to a £3,000 one?
likewise, if the gap in system performance was big enough to be picked up  subjectively, was that also reflected in the benchmark numbers?
in depth: can a £300 gaming pc compare to a £3,000 one?
the thing is, we're less sure how  much impact that has on subjective gaming pleasure.
our money-no-object rig weighs in at nearly  £3,000 for those components alone.
better (2) bezel (1) billabong (1) billion (7) bionic (1) birds (1) birthday (1) bizness (1) black (1) blackberry (3) blade (1) blaze (1) bleacher (1) bookmarks (1) books (1) boost (1) bracket (1) brand (1) brawler (1) breaks (1) bridge (1) bringing (1) brings (6) build (1) building (2) builds (1) bumping (1) burns (1) business (3) buying (1) buzzdoes (1) buzzwords (1) cables (2) calibur (1) camera (2) cameras (1) campus (1) carbyn (1) cardio (1) cards (2) carrier (2) carriers (1) casio (1) catching (1) celebrate (1) celebrates (1) cellular (1) cellulars (1) center (2) certain (1) challenge (1) change (2) channels (1) chart (2) charts (1) chassis (1) checkin (1) checkins (1) china (1) chooses (1) cinemagram (1) claims (2) clarifies (1) classic (1)
there's little doubt that life would be much harder for it at a resolution like  2,560 x 1,600.
like we said, we all know how a benchmark  fisticuffs would turn out.
the $120 blackberry playboo... - ram and cpu clock speed confirmed for new ipad, bu... - uk researchers plan mobile real-time sign language... - lg spectrum review: initial impressions (video) - forget nfc, this iphone case combines all your cre... - intel eyes web tv as aereo turns legal screws on n... - sony unveils
can a system costing just one tenth the price of another really deliver an indistinguishable gaming experience?
right (1) roaming (1) roots (1) roughly (1) round (2) roundup (2) rovio (1) rumor (1) running (1) sales (3) samsung (23) sandwich (1) santa (1) saturday (1) scanned (1) scenes
so that'll be the processor,  graphics card and hard drive.
- vuzix smart glasses bring augmented reality into focus at ces - flip to hand over sharing platform flipshare to givit, users have 30 days to transfer content - c spire wireless joins the lte club
youtube (1) zaarly (1) copyright © 2011
while  there is a niche of gamers who demand the highest possible resolutions, it's  debatable how much difference it makes to the visuals when you extend beyond  1080p full hd.
it puts a limit on the number of pixels any gaming pc is likely to have to pump out.
the first thing you'll have noticed is that we're not including it in the core set of components.
for the most part, both rigs ran with ultra settings across the board.
it transpired, it was much  easier for the simple reason that it handled the highest image quality settings  much better than we expected.
with plans to cover mississippi - android dominates moolah media’s mobile ads - juniper: nfc payments to reach $74 billion worldwide by 2015 - all ipad 3 facts, all hilarious labels 1month (1) 700000 (1) about (3)
there's little doubt that life would be much harder for it at a resolution like 2,560 x 1,600.
it's also a resolution that dominates regardless of screen size.
wirelessly (1) without (1) workaround (1) working (1) world (2)
the system has performance to burn so it was simply a case of maxing everything out and then jumping in-game to make sure everything was running smoothly.
another for those on a tight budget.
(1) postagram (2) postcards (2) posted (1) posts (1) precog (1) premium (1) preorder (2) preorders (1) press (1) price (1) printers (1) processor (1) product (2) profits (1) programs (1) promotion (1) proper (2) publishing (1) pulls (1) pulse (1) purple (1) pushtotalk (1) quadcore (3) quarter (1) quits (1) radiation (1) raises (5) rashid (1) rated (1) ratio (1)
it's to  find out whether it makes the slightest difference to the way games look and  feel.
our first test involved playing each title from  an identical pre-loaded and paused game state without observing level loads or  desktop performance.
with all that in mind, it's  clear that this entire experiment is heavy on the subjectivity.
- fly or die: the lg spectrum - archos teases g10 xs tablet with ultra-thin steel ... - samsung, lg, korean carriers fined for mobile pric...
the xbox 360 and ps3 are positively  ancient but retain an iron grip over game development.
none of that, however, is the same as saying high-end clobber doesn't deliver any benefits for the cost.
mintcom (1) missed (1) misses (1) mississippi (1) mobile (64) mobility (1) model (1) models (1) modern (1) mogul (1) monday (1) monitor (1) month (1) moolah (1) motoactv (1) motorola (11) movie (2) music (2) musthave (1) mytaxi (1) native (1) nearterm (1) needed (2) network (2) networks (1) newsit (1) nexus (3) niceguy (1)
(1) sprint (1) sprints (1) square (1) stacking (1) stamped (1) stand (1)
our testers were allowed around ten minutes per title to jump back  and forth between machines, as often as they liked.
both machines were up and running at the same time on the same desk and via the same 24-inch high quality 1080p monitor.
and it wouldn't be pretty.
moreover, 1080p has become the de facto standard for many games.
but in many ways its graphical fidelity can be  regarded as the benchmark.
while there is a niche of gamers who demand the highest possible resolutions, it's debatable how much difference it makes to the visuals when you extend beyond 1080p full hd.
so there you have it.
we wanted an unbiased assessment of the in-game experience, something that can be coloured by sitting through a lengthy level load.
they're coded to support very broad user bases.
of  course, choosing games is only half the solution.
the same goes for every other component class.
how many people, for  instance, can tell the difference between 16 times anisotropic filter and eight  times filtering?
in fact, we didn't even want our testers knowing what an  enormous gulf in hardware specification they were experiencing.
taxiordering (1) teachers (1) teases (1) tegra (1) telus (1) tenfold (1) testing (1) tests (3) texas (1)
none of that, however, is the same as  saying high-end clobber doesn't deliver any benefits for the cost.
reach (2) ready (1) realtime (1) rebate (1) recap (1) recommendations (
(2) speed (1) spire (1) sponsors (2) sports (1) spotlights (1) spotted
when it comes to pc performance and especially gaming grunt, that's the key question.
we next had to select image quality settings.
so let's be clear about this.
but that, frankly, is the whole point.
configuring the high-end  system was very straight forward, too.
whether it's  graphics cards, motherboards or especially storage, your bang for buck plummets  horribly at the top of the price scales.
component wise, our focus is on the three components that have the biggest influence on gaming performance: the processor, the graphics card and the hard drive.
when you get right down to it,  that's all that actually matters in the real world.
which, if either, of  the two systems had better graphics?
all of the above,  of course, concerns subjective experiences.
instead, all our testers knew was that they were comparing the gaming experience on two different systems.
configuring the high-end system was very straight forward, too.
that said, we also ran a suite of benchmarks to provide context and to underline the significance or insignificance of the comparative numbers.
givit (1) glancee (1) global (1) google (4) googles (3) government (1) grandparents (1) gravityfree (1) guide (1) guidelines (1) gzone (1) halliburton (1) hammer (1) hands (2) handset (2) handsets (3) handson (6) happens (1) harassment (1) heard (1) heins (1) heres (3) heyzap (1) highend (1) highlight (1) highlights (1) hilarious (1) hinrichs (1) hipsters (1) hitting (1) homeless (1) honor (1) horror (1) horse (1) hotspot (1) hotspots (1) html5 (2) html5based (1) huawei (1) human (1) i9100 (1) ideas (1) ideatab (1) identity (1) imovie (1) impresses (1) impressions (1) improperly (1) inapp (1) incredible (1) india (1) industry (1) infinity (1) initial (1) injunction (1) innovators (1) inside (1) inspire (1) instagram (2) installed (1) integrates (1) intel (1) introduce (2) invest (1) invests (1) iphone (22) iphones (3) iphoto (2) izettle (1) jackthreads (1) jailbreaks (2) japanese (1) joins (1) jotly (1) journalism (1) judges (1) jumped (1)
would you go for the  largest possible display?
in which case, you'll have to compromise on screen size, since the highest resolution monitors are not the largest.
it's about the gaming experience -  nothing more, nothing less.
the challenge will be getting the low-end system right.
the key here was to keep the identities of the systems and the components included completely concealed.
our task this month isn't merely to prove that  spending a shedload on the finest pc components isn't cost effective.
the bottom line is that we needed to do relatively little to  get our affordable pc running smoothly.
elder scrolls v: skyrim made the cut because it's a super hot title, it looks great, it's fairly demanding and it ticks the large-levels and long-draw distance boxes.
but  beyond those three, not only do the performance implications drop off, the  price delta shrinks enormously, too.
among all this there's a commonly encountered and gaming-specific issue that isn't covered and that's installation.
without a doubt, this is something our testers would have noticed.
the final part of the puzzle is the actual blind comparison.
image  quality, on the other hand, is a different matter.
yesterday’s ipad event was only half the story - newsit raises $500k to gamify crowd journalism - rovio goes gravity-free with angry birds space (vi... - “reverse craigslist” zaarly celebrates its birthda... - kismet combines check-ins, background location
we were in for a long haul.
however, what will effect the  outcome, and something we're contriving to be quite specific about, is the  display.
moreover, 1080p has become the de facto standard for many  games.
you don't need us to tell you intel's latest £800 six-core monster, the core i7 3960x, isn't eight times as good as a £100 quad-core amd phenom ii.
we didn't put a price limit on the top-end  monster, but in the end the average wasn't a millions away from a nicely  symmetrical £1,000 per component.
our task this month isn't merely to prove that spending a shedload on the finest pc components isn't cost effective.
nikon d4 impresses in early tes... - tutorial: 6 scintillating portrait photography ide... - digiboo launches copy-to-usb rental service - nokia lumia 800 and 710 to get mobile hotspot soon... - panasonic lumix gf5 breaks cover - in depth: can a £300 gaming pc compare to a £3,000...
can a system costing just one tenth the price of  another really deliver an indistinguishable gaming experience?
the first thing you'll have noticed is that we're not including it in  the core set of components.
the two systems are not required to run at the same image quality settings in-game.
indeed, tuning up the  cheapo machine was intriguing.
share to twitter share to facebook newer post older post home blog archive
that said, we also ran a suite of  benchmarks to provide context and to underline the significance or  insignificance of the comparative numbers.
our plan is to set the two systems up and put gamers in front of them in a blind comparison test.
so what are the hardware variables, how did we set the systems up and what games did we go for?
what we didn't know going  in was exactly how the real world gaming experience compared.
the bottom line is that we needed to do relatively little to get our affordable pc running smoothly.
(1) fixing (1) flagship (1) flavored (1) flights (1) flipshare (1) follow (1) forecast (1) forget (1) former (1) founders (1) foursquare (1) foxconn (1)
it's less than £300.
in which case, you'll have to compromise  on screen size, since the highest resolution monitors are not the largest.
we also wanted to get impressions of different aspects  of gaming performance including in-game frame rates, graphical quality and game  load and level load times.
which, if either, of the two systems had better graphics?
as well as adding  storage performance into the mix, we also asked our testers more specific  questions regarding performance and image quality.
granted, this trio is hardly comprehensive.
that's lead to  stagnation.
it transpired, it was much easier for the simple reason that it handled the highest image quality settings much better than we expected.
the vast majority of pc monitors from 22- to 30-inch and beyond now sport a 1,920 x 1,080 pixel grid.
there's little doubt extreme edition processors and the latest multi-billion transistor gpus will spew out unholy benchmark numbers.
in fact, we didn't even want our testers knowing what an enormous gulf in hardware specification they were experiencing.
chop the frame rate in half and that's a different matter, especially if the  result ever dips below 30 frames per second.
image quality, on the other hand, is a different matter.
normal (1) notification (1) offer (1) offering (1) offers (2) offthecharts (1) ondemand (1) online (1) onsports (1) optimization (1) optimus (1) option (1) orbit (1) order (1) original (2) osman (1) other (15) outlines (1)
of course, choosing games is only half the solution.
it's about the gaming experience - nothing more, nothing less.
with our systems specified, built  and saddled up with a fresh copy of windows 7, the next task was game title  selection.
- apple goes big in texas with $304 million austin c... - yesterday’s ipad event was only half the story - galaxy s blaze 4g lights up t-mobile shelves on ma... - these are the new ipad lte data plans - clueless: rim releases
likewise, for any given game, does knocking settings such as  shader or shadow quality down make a big difference to perceived image quality?
when it  comes to pc performance and especially gaming grunt, that's the key question.
absolutely (1) according (1) accused (1) accuses (1) acquires (1) activated (1) active (1) actively (1) activities (1) address (1) aereo (1) after (4) again (2) against (1) agony (1) ahead (1) airprint (1) allows (1) almost (2)
the reasons for this are the frankly enormous array of possible pc monitors and the related issue of user preference.
perhaps, but only if the system in question doesn't  double as a multi-purpose desktop.
8:12 pm itechee benchmark results are all very well, but can you feel the numbers?
for most gamers, if money was no object they'd probably run the most powerful possible pc.
any  keen gamer is going to pick up on jerky, unresponsive performance.
what does matter is that 1080p pixel  grid.
the system has performance to burn so it  was simply a case of maxing everything out and then jumping in-game to make  sure everything was running smoothly.
there's  little doubt extreme edition processors and the latest multi-billion transistor  gpus will spew out unholy benchmark numbers.
that doesn't mean we'll be excluding overall system performance entirely.
for most  gamers, if money was no object they'd probably run the most powerful possible  pc.
it puts a limit on the number of pixels any gaming pc is likely to have  to pump out.
when it comes to screens, the choice isn't so obvious.
if our testers couldn't feel the  performance difference, we looked at whether that reflected in the numbers.
switching between the two was a matter of the few seconds required to move the dvi cable across, allowing an almost instant comparison.
view the original article here
putting it another way, if  we plonked you down in front of two pcs, one trimmed out with the finest kit  known to man, one built down to a modest price point, and fired up your  favourite games, would you actually be able to see or feel the difference?
but obvious omissions such as, perhaps an mmorpg such as wow don't tend to be hugely performance intensive.
the thing is, we're less sure how much impact that has on subjective gaming pleasure.
the make and model are not important.
for this comparison we  didn't make any specific demands, we simply asked the testers how they thought  the two systems compared.
like we said, we all know how a benchmark fisticuffs would turn out.
but we think our reasoning makes sense and that is  this comparison isn't about the numbers.
(1) light (1) lights (1) lightsquareds (1) limit (1) linkedin (1) location (3) looks (1) lumia (10) lumix (1) lytro (1) madness (1) maher (1) maker (1) makes
for this comparison we didn't make any specific demands, we simply asked the testers how they thought the two systems compared.
thanks (1) their (1) there (2) theres (1)
so, what matters isn't  making sure that the two systems are running exactly the same level of  anti-aliasing, anisotropic filtering or shader complexity.
austin (1) austinarea (1) automatic (1) available (2) awards (1) background (1) bands (1) banned (2) barcelona (1) barista (1) basis (1) battery (2) battles (1) because (1) becomes (1) beginning (1) behemoth (1) behind (1) being (1) benchmark (3) beneficiary (1)
so, what matters isn't making sure that the two systems are running exactly the same level of anti-aliasing, anisotropic filtering or shader complexity.
to do that, we've built two very different systems, focussing on the  three core components that influence performance.
so, while there will always be a few exceptions, we reckon our chosen trio  gives a pretty decent picture of overall gaming performance.
but our argument is that even at the high end and regardless of screen size, the most likely resolution for gaming is going to be 1,920 x 1,080.
in parts it's absolutely stunning.
a future with super-fast touch... - nokia lumia windows 8
knock the anti-aliasing down from 8x to 4x and few, if anyone, will notice.
the xperia sola: look, mom!
but it won't influence the overall result.
the key here was  to keep the identities of the systems and the components included completely  concealed.
without a  doubt, this is something our testers would have noticed.
but in many ways its graphical fidelity can be regarded as the benchmark.
critically, our main focus is gaming.
on ios - iphoto for ipad review - nokia lumia windows 8
one for those with money to burn.
posted in: compare, depth,gaming email
this is a subject ripe for hang-ups, so we elected to go with  some very straightforward criteria.
(2) making (1) manufacturer (1) manufacturers (1) march (7) market (3) marketing (1) marketplace (1) markets (1) marries (1) match (1) media (2) mediaeverywhere (1) medias (1) medical (1) medium (1) meets (1) message (1) microsoft (5) might (2) military (1) millennial (1) million (13) millions (1) mimosa (1)
this is a subject ripe for hang-ups, so we elected to go with some very straightforward criteria.
share to twitter share to facebook newer post older post home blog archive - ▼ 2012 (320) - ▼ mar (113) - buying guide: 5 best airprint printers reviewed an... - 7 days in cameras:
if you think that tilts things even further in favour of the cheapo rig, you'd be absolutely right.
jumpstart (1) juniper (1) kaiser (1) keyboard (1) kicks (2) kismet (1) korea (1) korean (1) koreans (1) landing (1) lands (1) language (1) laptops (1)
we didn't put a price limit on the top-end monster, but in the end the average wasn't a millions away from a nicely symmetrical £1,000 per component.
what matters is whether gamers can tell the difference.
finally, we allowed our testers a little time to try out basic pc usage to get  a feel for desktop performance: firing up a few apps, surfing the web and  watching some high definition video.
next was a test starting from the desktop and  involving loading, first, the main game interface and then a game level, after  which further game play and general impressions were taken.
that's lead to stagnation.
and its execution reeks of  console-port compromises.
with all that in mind, it's clear that this entire experiment is heavy on the subjectivity.
but our argument is that even at the high end and regardless of  screen size, the most likely resolution for gaming is going to be 1,920 x  1,080.
if dialling down the eye candy doesn't  make a difference that's noticeable, then that's exactly what we'll do.
what matters is  whether gamers can tell the difference.
if our testers couldn't feel the performance difference, we looked at whether that reflected in the numbers.
finally, we allowed our testers a little time to try out basic pc usage to get a feel for desktop performance: firing up a few apps, surfing the web and watching some high definition video.
like we said, we didn't want our  budget rig getting an easy ride.
if dialling down the eye candy doesn't make a difference that's noticeable, then that's exactly what we'll do.
it would have to compete with the very highest possible image quality settings currently available.
1) cloud (2) clueless (1) coceo (1) coceos (2) codenamed (1) combat (1) combines (2) comes (1)
tested by keen gamers and as you'll see, the results are frankly astonishing.
from the outset we'd decided that running at 1080p native  resolution was essential, so that bit was easy.
likewise, if the gap in system performance was big enough to be picked up subjectively, was that also reflected in the benchmark numbers?
taking that logic and running  with it a little further, we've removed another image-related stipulation.
sidekick (1) signs (1) simple (1) skype (1) slider (2) slightly (1) small (2) smarter (1) smartphone (5) smartphones (1) sneak (2) social (4) software (2) solid (1) solutions (1) sonyericsson (1) south (2) space (2) speaks (2) specs (1) spectrum
so what are  the hardware variables, how did we set the systems up and what games did we go  for?
as ever, it's a question of playing off image quality and frame rates with the latter being particularly critical.
how many people, for instance, can tell the difference between 16 times anisotropic filter and eight times filtering?
1) records (2) recycling (1) redbox (1) refocus (1) refurbished (2) regurgitated (1) reins (3) release (2) releases (1) remind (1) remote (1) rental (1) reorganization (1) report (4) reportgrid (1) reputation (1) researchers (1) reserve (1) retailers (1) reuse (1) reveals (1) revenue (1) revenues (2) reverse (1) review (9) reviewed (1)
tutorial (2) ultrathin (1) unboxing (3) uncrops (1) unique (1) units (2) unlimited (1) untethered (2) until (1) unveils (1) update (8) updated (1) uploads (1) users (4) valentines (2) valuable (1) values (1) verizon (2) verizons (1) video (8) views (1) visit (1) voice (2) vonage (1) wants (2) warner (2) watch (2) web hosting (1) webos (1) wheres (1) which (1) whitmans (1) wigig (1) windows (12)
nikon (1) nitro (1) nokia (10) nokias (2) nordics (1)
our first test involved playing each title from an identical pre-loaded and paused game state without observing level loads or desktop performance.
as ever, it's a question of playing off  image quality and frame rates with the latter being particularly critical.
tested by keen gamers and as you'll see, the results are  frankly astonishing.
secretworthy (1) secure (1) seeing (1) seeks (3) sense (1) series (1) server (1) service (3) services (1)
classpager (1) clears (1) clever (1) clock (1) closes (
tab coming later this year?
putting it another way, if we plonked you down in front of two pcs, one trimmed out with the finest kit known to man, one built down to a modest price point, and fired up your favourite games, would you actually be able to see or feel the difference?
our plan is to set the two systems up and put  gamers in front of them in a blind comparison test.
the reasons for this are the frankly enormous array  of possible pc monitors and the related issue of user preference.
dropboxs (1) drops (1) dumps (1) duracell (1) early (1) ecstasy (1) editing (1) edition (1) efforts (1) elegant (1) element (2) emerging (1) employees (1) entertainment (1) enthusiast (1) entire (1) entrylevel (1) envisions (1) ereaders (1) ericsson (1) europe (1) event (3) every (3) everything (1) everywhere (2) exchange (1) execs (1) external (1) extra (1) exxon (1) facebook (2) facts (1) fakes (1) feature (1) featured (1) features (1) february (3) field (1) fight (1) files (1) finally (3) financing (1) fined (1) finished (1) first (5) firstcome (1) firstserved (1) fitness
both machines were up and running at the same time on the same desk and  via the same 24-inch high quality 1080p monitor.
first up, let's lay out some ground rules for this intriguing contest.
so that'll be the processor, graphics card and hard drive.
if you think that tilts things even further in favour of the cheapo rig, you'd  be absolutely right.
but that,  frankly, is the whole point.
when you get right down to it, that's all that actually matters in the real world.
instead, all  our testers knew was that they were comparing the gaming experience on two  different systems.
whether it's graphics cards, motherboards or especially storage, your bang for buck plummets horribly at the top of the price scales.
remote room monitor hands-on - motorola seeks motorola droid pro owners for soak ... - review: lytro light field camera - mogul ipad stand makes square an elegant option at... - microsoft envisions
did one or the other deliver a noticeably smoother frame rate or superior response to mouse and keyboard inputs?
component wise, our focus is on the three components that have the  biggest influence on gaming performance: the processor, the graphics card and  the hard drive.
these (1) thing (1) things (2) think (1) those (1) three (1) throttling (1) timeline (1) times (1) titan (1) tmobile (4) tmobiles (1) tools (2) topping (1) totally (1) touch (1) touchscreens (1) tough (1) traded (1) tradeins (1) trademarks (1) transfer (1) translation (1) transmits (1) transparent (1) treated (1) trick (1) turns (3)
okay, as a game to play it's pretty crappy.
and... - samsung wins awards from the mwc as manufacturer o... - lightsquared's ceo quits, company not ready to pul... - plangrid builds a new market for the ipad: the con... - apple and google on same side in court with suit o... - parrot ar.drone 2.0 landing in may, book your flig... - motorola seeks more business users, offers to buy ...
but beyond those three, not only do the performance implications drop off, the price delta shrinks enormously, too.
like we said, we didn't want our budget rig getting an easy ride.
our reasoning was to allow roughly  £100 each for the low end rig.
one reason for this is the undeniable influence that console games have on game engines.
crowdoptics (1) cupid (1) customers (3) daimler (1) deals (2) debunks (1) declines (1) decreasing (1) delay (2) demand (1) depth (2) design (1) designing (1) desire (1) destroying (1) developer (5) developers (1) device (4) devices (3) dictation (1) digiboo (1) directly (1) disagree (1) disappearing (1) discouraged (1) displays (1) dissing (1) distimo (1) dollars (1) domestic (1) dominates (1) download (1) downloaded (1) downloads (1) drastic (2) dreams (1) drives (1) droid (4)
among all this there's a commonly  encountered and gaming-specific issue that isn't covered and that's  installation.
if it feels the same, who  cares if it runs 10 times faster?
any keen gamer is going to pick up on jerky, unresponsive performance.
what we didn't know going in was exactly how the real world gaming experience compared.
switching between the two was  a matter of the few seconds required to move the dvi cable across, allowing an  almost instant comparison.
view the original article here email
it would have to compete with the very highest  possible image quality settings currently available.
then again, maybe it's maximum resolution you should be aiming for?
- in depth: how overclocking went back to its roots - hp reveals first ivy bridge laptops - tutorial: how to turn old hard drives into a secur... - apple to announce cash reserve plans on monday - apple's reuse and recycling programs can offer you... - htc one v adds purple and black to its original gr... - signs posted around hong kong apple store say new ... - htc golf scores a hole in one as entry-level andro... - samsung galaxy ace
however, what will effect the outcome, and something we're contriving to be quite specific about, is the display.
we next had to select image  quality settings.
) subscriber (1) suddenly (1) suing (1) sundance (2) super (3) superfast (1) support (3) supported (1) surge (2) surpasses (1) survey (1) swiping (1) synacor (1) system (1) tablet (5) tablet pc (10) tablets (3) takes (3) talks (1)
alone (1) amazon (1) ambient (1) america (1) analyst (2) android (56) angry (1) animated (1) announce (1) announces (3) another (3) ansca (1) anticipation (1) anticrop (1) apollo (1) apparently (1) apple (20) apples (6) april (2) archos (1) ardrone (1) around (2) arrive (1) arrives (2) aspect (1) atrix (1)
8:12 pm   itechee benchmark results are all very well, but can you feel the numbers?
so, that's what we're sticking to.
with all that in mind, we've opted for a single control monitor.
for each and every game we'll  tune it to look as spectacular as physically possible.
we also wanted to get impressions of different aspects of gaming performance including in-game frame rates, graphical quality and game load and level load times.
mostly it was a case of dropping the anti-aliasing from 8x to 4x (though crysis 2 doesn't actually offer proper aa, which is probably a big help) and tweaking just a handful of further settings.
however, one thing you should be very clear about is that we won't be compromising the settings on the high-end rig.
for each and every game we'll tune it to look as spectacular as physically possible.
with that in mind, the test went something like this.
of course, everybody knows high-end pc components are piddle-poor value  for money.
so there  you have it.
one thing we were certain about was that smooth frame rates were essential.
all of the above, of course, concerns subjective experiences.
our testers were allowed around ten minutes per title to jump back and forth between machines, as often as they liked.
the xbox 360 and ps3 are positively ancient but retain an iron grip over game development.