this also has allowed censorship to gain traction.
in the  dystopian future zittrain sees, an unprecedented shift of power from end users  and software developers to operating system vendors means the apples, googles,  and microsofts of the world will control what you can do with your pcs, phones,  and tablets - and we'll all be the worse for it.
i think canalys is on the right track in including tablets  as pc sales and will become even more right as time passes.
now 61 years old, wozniak is still an  apple employee with a minimum pay and goes around the world representing the  company - giving speeches and mentoring young engineers.
d&h canada will offer and promote the award-winning g-technology brand, including the g-speed, g-raid and g-drive product families, to its strong channel customer network of leading retailers, resellers and solution providers throughout the region.
but all of them share two characteristics in common: they've been buffed, restored, and repackaged to meet apple's exacting standards.
moorhead emphasizes that he's not debating whether, at least for some  users, a tablet can perform tasks they would otherwise be doing with a laptop  or desktop pc, but rather industry classification of the device.
link: buying guide: refurbished macs should we stop classifying the ipad as a pc?
my leaning is toward the different kind of device, as tablets do not  run desktop operating systems or software, are generally not designed to work  with keyboard and mouse input, and sometimes don't even have usb or flash card  slots.
"here's how to install ubuntu 11.10 in os x using vmware  fusion...." link: how to install ubuntu 11.10 in os x using vmware fusion why steve jobs died the macdougall newsletter says: "steve jobs gave tacit permission and encouragement for me to write  this newsletter article about the medical and nutritional aspects of his life  when he commissioned his biographer to tell a true account.
the first pc virus arrived a decade later when theelk cloner virus came to the apple ii in 1981, infecting the boot sector of floppy disks.
"jobs may have created the apple brand, but it was wozniak's initial work on the company's first two products that made apple a multi-million dollar company within a year of its founding.
my leaning is toward the different kind of device, as tablets do not run desktop operating systems or software, are generally not designed to work with keyboard and mouse input, and sometimes don't even have usb or flash card slots.
advice is presented in good faith, but what works for one may not work for all.
the last two mac systems your editor has purchased have been apple  certified refurbished machines, and both arrived cosmetically indistinguishable  from new and have been flawless performers (the newest one now being nearly  three years old).
cnet's larry dignan comments that to say intel ceo paul otellini is upbeat about the prospects for microsoft's windows 8 may be a bit of an understatement.
floppies were much faster  and easier to work with than tapes, giving apple a real leg up on the  competition.dk link:  an interview with apple co-founder steve wozniak refurbished mac buying guide macworld's joel mathis says that if you're on a budget and need a new  computer, but you're an apple fan and even with limited cash you'd rather not  buy an inexpensive windows-based pc, the solution is easy: buy a refurbished  mac.
'i wanted my kids to know about me.'
the first virus for ibm compatibles  arrived five years later, thebrain virus, which infected the boot sector of dos  disks.
many of the electronics and appliances around your home use  electricity even when they're not in use - wasting energy and driving up your  electric bill.
dk link: intel core i 3000 'ivy bridge' desktop cpu launch expected for q2 2012 macinstruct's matthew cone says: "everyone is talking about ubuntu, the popular open-source operating system that's easy to install and use.
zittrain notes that even at the height of windows' market  dominance, microsoft never had a role in determining what software would and  would not run on its machines.
we look forward to a long relationship with d&h." "g-technology has a strong brand and leading reputation in the mac and  creative community, and there's growing demand for their products in canada.
"our partnership with d&h canada is designed to extend the value of the brand, increase consumer awareness in the region and to better meet the demand for top-quality external storage solutions that feature superior performance, functionality, usability, reliability and industrial design.
"here's how to install ubuntu 11.10 in os x using vmware fusion...." link: how to install ubuntu 11.10 in os x using vmware fusion the macdougall newsletter says: "steve jobs gave tacit permission and encouragement for me to write this newsletter article about the medical and nutritional aspects of his life when he commissioned his biographer to tell a true account.
it took themac plus, introduced in january 1986, to really turn things around for the macintosh, adding a high-speed scsi port for hard drives along with a full 1 gb of memory - expandable to 4 gb when higher capacity chips became available.dk link: steve wozniak: the macintosh was a failure sunday midday's sachin kalbag recently interviewed "the other steve" -
" otellini cites microsoft new metro touch interface, noting that there will  be a button that basically takes you back to the classic windows experience -  ergo: one operating system with two different guis not running on virtual  machines, creating a huge and unique advantage for windows 8 because it will be  able to take advantage of legacy software as well as all the drivers for mice  and printers and every other usb device in the world, including getting photos  off your camera and onto a tablet.
both apple i - the company's first  product - and the hugely successful apple ii (arguably the world's first  fully-loaded personal computer) were designed by wozniak, making him - and not  jobs - the darling of geeks around the world.
belkin's conserve power switch™ completely shuts off power -  including standby power - to your electronics and appliances with the flip of a  switch, to help you save energy.
it was only by modifying the macintosh  hugely and over time that we made it a good computer," wozniak is quoted  saying.
there's nothing automatic about belkin's new switch, but the size and shape are what set it apart.
what's more personal  than a computer you can put in your pocket?
low end mac, lowendmac, and lowendmac.com are trademarks of cobweb publishing inc.
'i wanted my kids  to know about me.'
developers can't duplicate functionality already on offer in the store and can't license their work as free software, because those license terms conflict with apple's.
i addressed this  topic at some length in a column on macprices earlier this week, ipad and me;  will tablets ever be a satisfactory laptop substitute?
d&h is actively offering g-technology's storage solutions to our national partners right in time for the holiday shopping season," says greg tobin, general manager, d&h canada.
or buy direct from strider software.
hopefully, my account will bring some peace of mind to his family and friends after his untimely death." based on growth rate calculations for pancreatic neuro-endocrine (islet cell) tumors, dr. macdougall surmises that jobs' cancer may have begun in his mid-20s, about the same time apple was getting started, and speculates that lead and other carcinogens from computers caused the cancer.
"wozniak co-founded apple computer (now apple, inc.) in april 1976  along with steve jobs and ronald wayne.
d&h canada will offer and promote the award-winning g-technology  brand, including the g-speed, g-raid and g-drive product families, to its  strong channel customer network of leading retailers, resellers and solution  providers throughout the region.
editor's note: that's obviously what's happening, although some of us would  dispute that the user experience in the ios walled garden is in fact  qualitatively better, at least for content producers and other power users.cm publisher's note: we've had third-party software since the days of the  apple ii, and user experience has always been a big factor in which apps were  successful and which ones failed.
home | deals | tech specs | articles | news | groups | software | support |news feed | #lowendmac compiled by charles moore and edited by dan knight - 2011.12.09 short link: http://bit.ly/s5rupu mac notebook and other portable computing is covered in the 'book review.
the conserve power switch can be used with mobile phones, mp3 players, bluetooth devices and digital cameras, curling irons, clothes irons, electric grills, coffee makers and lighting, fans, and space heaters to save energy and make your home safer and eliminate standby power when charging.
apple, the apple logo, macintosh, ipad iphone, imac, ipod, macbook, magsafe, mac pro, apple tv, and airport areregistered trademarks of apple inc.
zittrain cites the case  exodus international releasing an app that, among other things, inveighed  against homosexuality, which opponents were successful in petitioning apple to  remove.
please report errors to .
the conserve power switch can be used with mobile phones, mp3 players,  bluetooth devices and digital cameras, curling irons, clothes irons, electric  grills, coffee makers and lighting, fans, and space heaters to save energy and  make your home safer and eliminate standby power when charging.
&lt;script language="javascript"  src="http://bullseye.backbeatmedia.com/bullseye/adserver/270/798/viewjscript?pool=266&amp;type=13&amp;pos=4&amp;zone=5000&amp;redirect=aj"&gt;&lt;/script&gt;  &lt;noscript&gt;&lt;a  href="http://adserver1.backbeatmedia.com/servlet/ajrotator/270/798/clickcgi?pos=4&amp;zone=5000"&gt;&lt;img
despite that, mac sales fell like a  rock in 1985.
now 61 years old, wozniak is still an apple employee with a minimum pay and goes around the world representing the company - giving speeches and mentoring young engineers.
belkin's conserve power switch™ completely shuts off power - including standby power - to your electronics and appliances with the flip of a switch, to help you save energy.
-- special introductory price of $59.95!!
hopefully, my account will bring some peace of  mind to his family and friends after his untimely death."
publisher's note: microsoft controls over 90% of the pc market (tablets excluded), while intel controls 80% of the pc market and 100% of the mac market.
other than that, good suggestions from belkin.)dk link: belkin conserve power switch (available from amazon.com with free  super saver shipping if your order totals $25 or more - amazon.com hasthe  complete range of belkin conserve devices available) g-technology by hitachi strengthens brand presence in canada pr: g-technology by hitachi has announced that d&h canada, one  of north america's leading technology distributors, is now authorized to  distribute hitachi gst's full line of premium g-technology external storage  solutions.
d&h is actively  offering g-technology's storage solutions to our national partners right in  time for the holiday shopping season," says greg tobin, general manager,  d&h canada.
follow us on twitter.
there's nothing automatic about belkin's new switch, but the size and  shape are what set it apart.
also see charles w. moore's review of the g-drive professional external hard drive.
anyone could write and run software for  an operating system, and up popped an endless assortment of application  software.
"wozniak co-founded apple computer (now apple, inc.) in april 1976 along with steve jobs and ronald wayne.
zittrain recalls the microsoft antitrust litigation of the 1990s but observes that when the iphone came out in 2007, its design was far more restrictive than windows had ever been, with no outside code at all allowed on the iphone and all the included software apple's as well.
email may be published at our discretion unless marked "not for publication"; email addresses will not be published without permission, and we will encrypt them in hopes of avoiding spammers.
"the mac and content creation market is growing fast in canada, driven by the rising popularity of apple products as well as the increased storage demands driven by digital photography, hd video, online music and the internet," says ian andes, vice president of g-technology sales, hitachi gst branded business.
i addressed this topic at some length in a column on macprices earlier this week, ipad and me; will tablets ever be a satisfactory laptop substitute?
'also, when i got sick, i realized other people would write about me if i died, and they wouldn't know anything.
"we look forward to working together with g-technology by hitachi and growing our businesses within the mac community."
jobs would have been  pleased to hear my challenging second opinions about his pancreatic cancer and  his diet, because my thoughts are in agreement with what he intuitively and  factually knew to be correct.
as for the mac, only about70 viruses for the classic mac os ever made it into the wild, and os x viruses are virtually unknown, while there are well over 100,000 malwares aimed at windows.
trying out this linux distribution on your mac is easy.
intel ceo: windows 8 to enjoy a huge advantage intel core 'ivy bridge' desktop cpu launch expected in q2 2012 how to install ubuntu using vmware fusion
(the refurbs are listed under the special deals section of the left column of the online store.), with the mac selection running the gamut from laptop computers to mac minis to imacs with giant 27" monitors.
we also track ipod touch, ipod classic, ipod nano, and ipod shuffle deals.
the interesting thing about windows 8, which intel's otellini raves  about, is that it will also run on arm processors, which power almost all  smartphones and tablets - and which intel does not produce.
"steve wozniak, supreme geek of the 1970s and the maker of the apple ii computer which brought about a worldwide computer revolution, was in bangalore [india] on saturday to speak to a bunch of young entrepreneurs and achievers of the young presidents organisation who wanted to hear the story of the most-loved technology brand in the world - apple.
he notes that people bought general-purpose pcs that came with operating systems that took care of the basics.
poker mac will show you how to download and install a native mac poker andmac casino applications in minutes.
the first virus for ibm compatibles arrived five years later, thebrain virus, which infected the boot sector of dos disks.
" otellini cites microsoft new metro touch interface, noting that there will be a button that basically takes you back to the classic windows experience - ergo: one operating system with two different guis not running on virtual machines, creating a huge and unique advantage for windows 8 because it will be able to take advantage of legacy software as well as all the drivers for mice and printers and every other usb device in the world, including getting photos off your camera and onto a tablet.
trying out this linux distribution on  your mac is easy.
(if your coffee maker has a clock, don't use  it with one of these.
the personal computer is dead: apple killed it zittrain vs. apple: what about the user experience?
also see charles w. moore's review of the g-drive professional external  hard drive.
likewise, the last three "new" macs your publisher has purchased (all of them emacs) have also been apple certified refurbished machines, and they were just like new when they arrived.
link: buying guide: refurbished macs have we started?
editor's note: in my estimation, tablets like the ipad meet all of moorhead's criteria.
maybe we'll see the firstmac pro update since july 2010!
designed for standard us three-prong power outlets, the conserve power switch's slim design won't obstruct an unused outlet when plugged in.
likewise for two certified refurbished ipods.
moorhead says the reclassification got him thinking about what a pc is and how wide this definition goes.
two conserve power switches easily fit next to each other in one standard outlet and can work simultaneously.
link: g-technology by hitachi low end mac updates the following price trackers once or twice a month: for more deals on current and discontinued notebook models, see our macbook, macbook air, 15" macbook pro, 17" macbook pro, 12" powerbook g4, 15" powerbook g4, 17" powerbook g4, titanium powerbook g4, ibook g4, powerbook g3, and ibook g3 deals.
shilov says ivy bridge will generally inherit sandy bridge  microarchitecture, but with a significant array of improvements that will boost  its performance in general applications by around 20% compared to core i  "sandy bridge" chips, as well as a new graphics core with directx 11  and opencl 1.1 support, 30% higher performance compared to the predecessor, and  a new video processor and display controllers, plus pci express
moorhead emphasizes that he's not debating whether, at least for some users, a tablet can perform tasks they would otherwise be doing with a laptop or desktop pc, but rather industry classification of the device.
i think it's one of the best  things that's ever happened to our company.
it will lose track of the time, which means it won't be  able to start automatically so you can wake up to a fresh pot in the morning.
"our partnership with d&h canada is designed to  extend the value of the brand, increase consumer awareness in the region and to  better meet the demand for top-quality external storage solutions that feature  superior performance, functionality, usability, reliability and industrial  design.
conserve power switch features draws zero power when off reduces clutter of unplugged devices 1-year limited warranty $6.99 publisher's note: it's a shame that more ac adapters don't switch to zero
in fact, otellini said windows 8 is one of the best things  that's ever happened to intel.
you can find prices on refurbs in our various deal trackers, which we try to update at least once a month.
floppies were much faster and easier to work with than tapes, giving apple a real leg up on the competition.dk link: an interview with apple co-founder steve wozniak macworld's joel mathis says that if you're on a budget and need a new computer, but you're an apple fan and even with limited cash you'd rather not buy an inexpensive windows-based pc, the solution is easy: buy a refurbished mac.
the company even stamps the machine with a new serial number.
based on growth rate calculations for pancreatic neuro-endocrine (islet  cell) tumors, dr. macdougall surmises that jobs' cancer may have begun in his  mid-20s, about the same time apple was getting started, and speculates that  lead and other carcinogens from computers caused the cancer.
other than that, good suggestions from belkin.)dk link: belkin conserve power switch (available from amazon.com with free super saver shipping if your order totals $25 or more - amazon.com hasthe complete range of belkin conserve devices available) pr: g-technology by hitachi has announced that d&h canada, one of north america's leading technology distributors, is now authorized to distribute hitachi gst's full line of premium g-technology external storage solutions.
the interesting thing about windows 8, which intel's otellini raves about, is that it will also run on arm processors, which power almost all smartphones and tablets - and which intel does not produce.
"the apple iii was a failure, the lisa was a failure, and the [original] macintosh was a failure.
then, in 2008, apple announced a software development kit for the iphone, under which third-party developers would be welcome to write software for the iphone, pretty much as they'd done for windows and mac os, but with the epic exception that users could install software on a phone only if it was offered through apple's iphone app store, with 30% of its price siphoned off to apple.
he says reasons for the delay in releasing the world's first desktop microprocessors made using 22nm transistors are unclear but speculates that perhaps the company wants to ensure no internal competition between existing "sandy bridge" 2000 and future "ivy bridge" 3000 chips, or possibly ramp up of brand new cpus is taking longer than expected.
this can average up to $100 per year in unnecessary energy costs, according to lawrence berkeley national laboratory.
g-technology drives are engineered specifically to meet the needs of the content creation and apple mac communities, including heavy users of multimedia content, final cut pro digital audio/video specialists and other pre/post production professionals.
so i wanted to make sure someone heard what i had to say.'
tech.pinions contributor patrick moorhead is critical of market research  firm canalys' decision to break from the analyst pack and include touchscreen  tablets in its pc sales metrics, a revision that has put apple is on track to  become leading global pc vendor, given the phenomenal success of the ipad.
with the touch of a switch, the power shuts off.
we  are thrilled to have them as part of our product lineup.
what's more personal than a computer you can put in your pocket?
ipad, ipod, iphone, and apple tv news is covered inthe ios news review.
arm-based laptops and servers are rumored for 2012, which would either dilute intel's overall market share or give intel a reason to reenter the arm market.dk link: windows 8 makes intel very, very happy xbit labs' anton shilov reports that intel has notified partners about coming release of next-generation "ivy bridge" processors in q2 2012 - pushed back from a formerly projected march-april timeframe.
we look forward to a long relationship with d&h." "g-technology has a strong brand and leading reputation in the mac and creative community, and there's growing demand for their products in canada.
this can average  up to $100 per year in unnecessary energy costs, according to lawrence berkeley  national laboratory.
this is simply a power plug with a switch that you  have to flip, but it's less ugly than leaving a power cord or ac adapter  unplugged on the floor or counter.
'also, when i got sick, i realized other people would write  about me if i died, and they wouldn't know anything.
shilov says ivy bridge will generally inherit sandy bridge microarchitecture, but with a significant array of improvements that will boost its performance in general applications by around 20% compared to core i "sandy bridge" chips, as well as a new graphics core with directx 11 and opencl 1.1 support, 30% higher performance compared to the predecessor, and a new video processor and display controllers, plus pci express 3.0 x16 interconnection and a pcie 2.0 x4 controller as well as a number of power management innovations.
the upshot is that today's developers are writing code predicated on not  just consumer acceptance, but also vendor acceptance, and he contends that both  software developers and users should demand more, warning that if we allow  ourselves to be lulled into satisfaction with walled gardens, we'll miss out on  innovations to which the gardeners object, while setting ourselves up for  censorship of code and content.
link: the personal computer is dead zittrain vs. apple: what about the user experience?
we allow and encourage links to any public page as long as the linked page does not appear within a frame that prevents bookmarking it.
tech.pinions' steve wildstrom comments that harvard law school prof.  jonathan zittrain (see above) doesn't like the iphone or the ipad, or much of  anything about the modern app economy, noting that zittrain bemoans the loss of  a golden age of software openness, when anyone could write and run software for  an operating system, and up popped an endless assortment of spreadsheets, word  processors, instant messengers, web browsers, email, and games.
intel ceo: windows 8 to enjoy a huge advantage cnet's larry dignan comments that to say intel ceo paul otellini is upbeat  about the prospects for microsoft's windows 8 may be a bit of an  understatement.
the last two mac systems your editor has purchased have been apple certified refurbished machines, and both arrived cosmetically indistinguishable from new and have been flawless performers (the newest one now being nearly three years old).
the so-called "vampire power" phenomenon.
rather, he says we're witnessing an  unprecedented shift of power from end users and software developers to  operating system vendors - and even those who keep using pcs are being swept  along.
speaking at a credit suisse technology conference, otellini said: "we are very excited about windows 8.
letters may be edited for length, context, and to matchhouse style.
g-technology drives are engineered specifically to meet the needs of the  content creation and apple mac communities, including heavy users of multimedia  content, final cut pro digital audio/video specialists and other pre/post  production professionals.
entire low end mac website copyright ©1997-2012 bycobweb publishing, inc. unless otherwise noted.
"we look forward to working together with g-technology by  hitachi and growing our businesses within the mac community."
he also notes that the initial ivy bridge family will not include core i3-series chips and will consist solely of core i7 and core i5 silicon, with an inexpensive core i3 version coming later in q2 2011.
additional company and product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks and are hereby acknowledged.
i think canalys is on the right track in including tablets as pc sales and will become even more right as time passes.
he suggests questioning those who supported the anti-exodus petition:  "would you also favor a petition demanding that apple prevent iphone and  ipad users from getting to exodus' website on safari?" noting that if not,  what's different?
it was only by modifying the macintosh hugely and over time that we made it a good computer," wozniak is quoted saying.
zittrain cites the case exodus international releasing an app that, among other things, inveighed against homosexuality, which opponents were successful in petitioning apple to remove.
the conserve power switch  itself uses no power when not in operation, so standby power is eliminated.
i would not hesitate to buy another  apple certified refurb.
and now the contagion is spreading to pc space with the the mac app store.
in the dystopian future zittrain sees, an unprecedented shift of power from end users and software developers to operating system vendors means the apples, googles, and microsofts of the world will control what you can do with your pcs, phones, and tablets - and we'll all be the worse for it.
join us on facebook.
like unplugging - without unplugging
steve jobs unveiled the original macintosh using a custom machine with  512 kb of memory, and themacintosh 512k (a.k.a. fat mac) was the first model  with enough memory to be fairly useful.
"jobs may have created the apple brand, but it was wozniak's initial  work on the company's first two products that made apple a multi-million dollar  company within a year of its founding.
in time, the industry will come to some consensus as to  whether the tablet belongs in the pc category or is really a different kind of  device.
macworld uk's ben camm-jones reports that apple cofounder steve wozniak, speaking on sunday midday (see below), a program run on india's ndtv network, conceded that theapple iii had been a failure - something that few would dispute - but also said that the macintosh had been a failure too.
for price quotes and advertising information, please contact at backbeat media (646-546-5194).
openness has its risks, but i think they tend to be outweighed by having a platform anyone can write for.dk link: zittrain vs. apple: what about the user experience?
link: g-technology by hitachi low end mac updates the following price trackers once or twice a month: intel imac deals
zittrain recalls the microsoft antitrust litigation of the 1990s but  observes that when the iphone came out in 2007, its design was far more  restrictive than windows had ever been, with no outside code at all allowed on  the iphone and all the included software apple's as well.
mr. zittrain is a professor of law and computer science at harvard university, and author ofthe future of the internet and how to stop it, in which he forecast the transformation from product to service, noting that for decades pc users enjoyed a simple way for people to create software and share or sell it to others.
editor's note: i have no idea whether this doctor's non-mainstream theories  hold any water, so to speak, but they are fascinating for anyone interested in  the etiology of cancer.cm link: why did steve jobs die?
zittrain considers these developments to be a little for the better, and much for the worse.
it took themac plus, introduced in january 1986, to really turn  things around for the macintosh, adding a high-speed scsi port for hard drives  along with a full 1 gb of memory - expandable to 4 gb when higher  capacity chips became available.dk link: steve wozniak: the macintosh was a failure interview with steve wozniak sunday midday's sachin kalbag recently interviewed "the other  steve" - steve wozniak, apple's cofounder and the designer of the earliest  apple computers.
" publisher's note: perhaps the most significant factor in the success of the  apple ii wasn't the computer itself but the fact that it was the first home  computer (as we called them back then) with arelatively affordable 5-1/4"  floppy drive.
interconnection and a pcie 2.0 x4 controller as well as a number of power  management innovations.
both apple i - the company's first product - and the hugely successful apple ii (arguably the world's first fully-loaded personal computer) were designed by wozniak, making him - and not jobs - the darling of geeks around the world.
tech.pinions contributor patrick moorhead is critical of market research firm canalys' decision to break from the analyst pack and include touchscreen tablets in its pc sales metrics, a revision that has put apple is on track to become leading global pc vendor, given the phenomenal success of the ipad.
zittrain notes that even at the height of windows' market dominance, microsoft never had a role in determining what software would and would not run on its machines.
likewise, the last three "new" macs your publisher has purchased  (all of them emacs) have also been apple certified refurbished machines, and  they were just like new when they arrived.
rather, he says we're witnessing an unprecedented shift of power from end users and software developers to operating system vendors - and even those who keep using pcs are being swept along.
arguably, an acr unit is more thoroughly vetted for issues  and defects than a new one is, and meet's the company's finished goods testing  procedures which means that it should be up to the same technical standards as  the exact same unit purchased brand-new.
while wildstrom acknowledges that zittrain is a very smart and witty guy,  he thinks the professor is missing something very important: user experience,  which wildstrom characterizes as "horrible" back in zittrain's glory  days of computing freedom, observing that the many millions of people who have  bought iphones and ipads have chosen to cede to apple the right to to choose  what software their devices can run in exchange for a superior user experience.
from rugged portable drives to ultra-fast, multi-drive raid storage, g-technology's usb, firewire, esata, and sas storage solutions support virtually all levels of a/v production and can be found in post-production facilities worldwide.
they'd get it all wrong.
publisher's note: microsoft controls over 90% of the pc market (tablets  excluded), while intel controls 80% of the pc market and 100% of the mac  market.
openness has its risks, but i  think they tend to be outweighed by having a platform anyone can write for.dk link: zittrain vs. apple: what about the user experience?
editor's note: i have no idea whether this doctor's non-mainstream theories hold any water, so to speak, but they are fascinating for anyone interested in the etiology of cancer.cm link: why did steve jobs die?
this number is for advertising only.
mathis notes that before resale, apple cleans the machine, replaces any  defective or substandard parts, reinstalls software that originally shipped  with the unit, tests the mac for quality-control issues, then repackages it  with fresh cables and a users manual.
in time, the industry will come to some consensus as to whether the tablet belongs in the pc category or is really a different kind of device.
despite that, mac sales fell like a rock in 1985.
while wildstrom acknowledges that zittrain is a very smart and witty guy, he thinks the professor is missing something very important: user experience, which wildstrom characterizes as "horrible" back in zittrain's glory days of computing freedom, observing that the many millions of people who have bought iphones and ipads have chosen to cede to apple the right to to choose what software their devices can run in exchange for a superior user experience.
editor's note: in my estimation, tablets like the ipad meet all of  moorhead's criteria.
the creeper virus ran on dec pdp-10 computers in 1971 and distributed itself over arpanet, the predecessor to the internet.
we don't collect personal information unless you explicitly provide it.
pr: many of the electronics and appliances around your home use electricity even when they're not in use - wasting energy and driving up your electric bill.
don't install parallels to play poker online!
and it's a very good operating system, not just for pcs, but we think also will allow tablets to really get a legitimacy into mainstream computing, particularly in enterprises that they don't have today.
intel sold its xscale arm processor line to marvell in 2006, although it does retain an arm license, so it could get back into the arm business if it wanted to.
arguably, an acr unit is more thoroughly vetted for issues and defects than a new one is, and meet's the company's finished goods testing procedures which means that it should be up to the same technical standards as the exact same unit purchased brand-new.
you can find prices on refurbs in our various deal trackers, which we try  to update at least once a month.
the upshot is that today's developers are writing code predicated on not just consumer acceptance, but also vendor acceptance, and he contends that both software developers and users should demand more, warning that if we allow ourselves to be lulled into satisfaction with walled gardens, we'll miss out on innovations to which the gardeners object, while setting ourselves up for censorship of code and content.
publisher's note: i consider the macintosh 128k pretty much a proof-of-concept machine, because it really didn't have enough memory to do much.
then, in 2008, apple  announced a software development kit for the iphone, under which third-party  developers would be welcome to write software for the iphone, pretty much as  they'd done for windows and mac os, but with the epic exception that users  could install software on a phone only if it was offered through apple's iphone  app store, with 30% of its price siphoned off to apple.
the first pc virus  arrived a decade later when theelk cloner virus came to the apple ii in 1981,  infecting the boot sector of floppy disks.
until then, floppy drive controllers were expensive, and most  floppy drives were of the 8" variety, and most home computers used  cassette tape for storage and a tv set as a monitor.
in a typical american household, there are up to 40 devices drawing  constant power at a given time - even when they're not in use.
the original macintosh was a failure macworld uk's ben camm-jones reports that apple cofounder steve wozniak,  speaking on sunday midday (see below), a program run on india's ndtv network,  conceded that theapple iii had been a failure - something that few would  dispute - but also said that the macintosh had been a failure too.
noting that if not, what's different?
share follow low end mac on twitter join low end mac on facebook typestyler 11 is now in the mac app store!!
mr. zittrain is a professor of law and computer science at harvard  university, and author ofthe future of the internet and how to stop it, in which he forecast the transformation from product to service, noting that  for decades pc users enjoyed a simple way for people to create software and  share or sell it to others.
[india] on saturday to speak to a bunch of young entrepreneurs and  achievers of the young presidents organisation who wanted to hear the story of  the most-loved technology brand in the world - apple.
designed for standard us three-prong power outlets, the conserve power  switch's slim design won't obstruct an unused outlet when plugged in.
and it's a very good operating  system, not just for pcs, but we think also will allow tablets to really get a  legitimacy into mainstream computing, particularly in enterprises that they  don't have today.
publisher's note: i would go so far as to classify any smartphone that can  run apps as a personal computer, albeit a very small one.
with an application called vmware fusion, you can create a 'computer within a computer' and run ubuntu in a virtual machine on your mac.
but that's the reality.
he also notes that the initial ivy bridge family will not include core  i3-series chips and will consist solely of core i7 and core i5 silicon, with an  inexpensive core i3 version coming later in q2 2011.
link: the personal computer is dead tech.pinions' steve wildstrom comments that harvard law school prof. jonathan zittrain (see above) doesn't like the iphone or the ipad, or much of anything about the modern app economy, noting that zittrain bemoans the loss of a golden age of software openness, when anyone could write and run software for an operating system, and up popped an endless assortment of spreadsheets, word processors, instant messengers, web browsers, email, and games.
he proposes some multipoint criteria to help qualify pc-ness.
however, the industry likes to have  clear-cut categories, and just as the early apple, tandy, and commodore home  computers created a new category (home computers or microcomputers - in contrast to mainframes and minicomputers - and laterpersonal computers ), the ipad is creating a new category that is neither a smartphone nor a  conventional pc.
the conserve power switch itself uses no power when not in operation, so standby power is eliminated.
macsurfer cult of mac shrine of apple macintouch myapplemenu infomac the mac observer accelerate your mac retromaccast pb central macwindows the vintage mac museum deal brothers dealmac mac2sell mac driver museum jag's house system 6 heaven system 7 today the pickle's low-end mac faq amazon.com the itunes store pc connection express gainsaver parallels desktop for mac ebay all of our advertising is handled by backbeat media.
moorhead says the reclassification got him thinking about what a pc is and how  wide this definition goes.
"the mac and content creation market is growing fast in canada, driven  by the rising popularity of apple products as well as the increased storage  demands driven by digital photography, hd video, online music and the  internet," says ian andes, vice president of g-technology sales, hitachi  gst branded business.
publisher's note: i would go so far as to classify any smartphone that can run apps as a personal computer, albeit a very small one.
time will tell.dk link: let's stop classifying the ipad as a pc writing for technology review, jonathan zittrain says the pc is dead, with rising popularity of mobile, lightweight, cloud-centric devices not merely representing a change in form factor.
why steve jobs died belkin conserve power switch banishes vampire power draw g-technology by hitachi strengthens brand presence in canada desktop mac deals news & opinion steve wozniak:
but all of them share two characteristics in common: they've  been buffed, restored, and repackaged to meet apple's exacting standards.
two  conserve power switches easily fit next to each other in one standard outlet  and can work simultaneously.
(the refurbs are listed under the special deals section of the left  column of the online store.), with the mac selection running the gamut from  laptop computers to mac minis to imacs with giant 27" monitors.
we are thrilled to have them as part of our product lineup.
he suggests questioning those who supported the anti-exodus petition: "would you also favor a petition demanding that apple prevent iphone and ipad users from getting to exodus' website on safari?"
mathis notes that before resale, apple cleans the machine, replaces any defective or substandard parts, reinstalls software that originally shipped with the unit, tests the mac for quality-control issues, then repackages it with fresh cables and a users manual.
the  creeper virus ran on dec pdp-10 computers in 1971 and distributed  itself over arpanet, the predecessor to the internet.
with an application called vmware fusion, you can create a  'computer within a computer' and run ubuntu in a virtual machine on your mac.
draw when not in use (the one for my old palm centro does that), but that's the  reality.
until then, floppy drive controllers were expensive, and most floppy drives were of the 8" variety, and most home computers used cassette tape for storage and a tv set as a monitor.
mathis notes that the apple online store has a section where you can buy  refurbished macs, as well as refurbished ipads, ipods, and other apple  products.
(if your coffee maker has a clock, don't use it with one of these.
this is simply a power plug with a switch that you have to flip, but it's less ugly than leaving a power cord or ac adapter unplugged on the floor or counter.
arm-based  laptops and servers are rumored for 2012, which would either dilute intel's  overall market share or give intel a reason to reenter the arm market.dk link: windows 8 makes intel very, very happy intel core 'ivy bridge' desktop cpu launch expected in q2 2012 xbit labs' anton shilov reports that intel has notified partners about  coming release of next-generation "ivy bridge" processors in q2 2012  - pushed back from a formerly projected march-april timeframe.
anyone could write and run software for an operating system, and up popped an endless assortment of application software.
editor's note: that's obviously what's happening, although some of us would dispute that the user experience in the ios walled garden is in fact qualitatively better, at least for content producers and other power
some of the machines are preowned, while others were returned to the company because of technical defects.
in a typical american household, there are up to 40 devices drawing constant power at a given time - even when they're not in use.
he says reasons for the delay in releasing the world's first desktop  microprocessors made using 22nm transistors are unclear but speculates that  perhaps the company wants to ensure no internal competition between existing  "sandy bridge" 2000 and future "ivy bridge" 3000 chips, or  possibly ramp up of brand new cpus is taking longer than expected.
for more details, see ourterms of use.
and  they're cheaper than buying new, yet carry the exact same warranty and  applecare eligibility as new macs.
i would not hesitate to buy another apple certified refurb.
to buy from the mac app storeclick here now!!
publisher's note: expect a new wave of desktop macs when ivy bridge ships.
conserve power switch features $6.99 publisher's note: it's a shame that more ac adapters don't switch to zero draw when not in use (the one for my old palm centro does that),
he proposes  some multipoint criteria to help qualify pc-ness.
the company even stamps the machine with  a new serial number.
the down side is that open platforms also allow for the creation of computer viruses and other malware, a problem that predates personal computing.
developers can't duplicate functionality already on offer in the store and  can't license their work as free software, because those license terms conflict  with apple's.
products & services belkin conserve power switch banishes vampire power draw pr:
intel sold its  xscale arm processor line to marvell in 2006, although it does retain an arm  license, so it could get back into the arm business if it wanted to.
jobs would have been pleased to hear my challenging second opinions about his pancreatic cancer and his diet, because my thoughts are in agreement with what he intuitively and factually knew to be correct.
he notes that people bought general-purpose pcs that came with operating  systems that took care of the basics.
i think it's one of the best things that's ever happened to our company.
publisher's note: i consider the macintosh 128k pretty much a  proof-of-concept machine, because it really didn't have enough memory to do  much.
news & opinion steve wozniak: the original macintosh was a failure interview with steve wozniak
as for the mac, only about70 viruses for the classic mac os ever made it  into the wild, and os x viruses are virtually unknown, while there are  well over 100,000 malwares aimed at windows.
it will lose track of the time, which means it won't be able to start automatically so you can wake up to a fresh pot in the morning.
steve jobs unveiled the original macintosh using a custom machine with 512 kb of memory, and themacintosh 512k (a.k.a. fat mac) was the first model with enough memory to be fairly useful.
the down side is that open platforms also  allow for the creation of computer viruses and other malware, a problem that  predates personal computing.
low end mac is an independent publication and has not been authorized, sponsored, or otherwise approved by apple inc.
"the apple iii was a failure, the lisa was a failure, and the  [original] macintosh was a failure.
steve wozniak, apple's cofounder and the designer of the earliest apple computers.
dk link: intel core i 3000 'ivy bridge' desktop cpu launch expected for q2 2012 how to install ubuntu using vmware fusion macinstruct's matthew cone says: "everyone is talking about ubuntu, the popular open-source operating  system that's easy to install and use.
and they're cheaper than buying new, yet carry the exact same warranty and applecare eligibility as new macs.
mathis notes that the apple online store has a section where you can buy refurbished macs, as well as refurbished ipads, ipods, and other apple products.
src="http://bullseye.backbeatmedia.com/bullseye/adserver/270/798/viewcgi?pool=266&amp;type=13&amp;pos=4&amp;zone=5000&amp;redirect=aj"  border="0"&gt;&lt;/a&gt;&lt;/noscript&gt; home | deals | tech specs | articles | news | groups | software | support  |news feed | #lowendmac mac news review woz calls original mac a failure, apple killed the pc, why steve jobs  died, and more this week's apple and desktop mac news compiled by charles moore and edited by dan knight - 2011.12.09 short link: http://bit.ly/s5rupu mac notebook and other portable computing is covered in the 'book review.
should we stop classifying the ipad as a pc?
from rugged portable drives to ultra-fast,  multi-drive raid storage, g-technology's usb, firewire, esata, and sas storage  solutions support virtually all levels of a/v production and can be found in  post-production facilities worldwide.
some of  the machines are preowned, while others were returned to the company because of  technical defects.
zittrain considers these developments to be a little for the better, and  much for the worse.
" publisher's note: perhaps the most significant factor in the success of the apple ii wasn't the computer itself but the fact that it was the first home computer (as we called them back then) with arelatively affordable 5-1/4" floppy drive.
"steve wozniak, supreme geek of the 1970s and the maker of the apple  ii computer which brought about a worldwide computer revolution, was in  bangalore
time will tell.dk link: let's stop classifying the ipad as a pc the personal computer is dead: apple killed it writing for technology review, jonathan zittrain says the pc is dead, with  rising popularity of mobile, lightweight, cloud-centric devices not merely  representing a change in form factor.
in fact, otellini said windows 8 is one of the best things that's ever happened to intel.
however, the industry likes to have clear-cut categories, and just as the early apple, tandy, and commodore home computers created a new category (home computers or microcomputers - in contrast to mainframes and minicomputers - and laterpersonal computers ), the ipad is creating a new category that is neither a smartphone nor a conventional pc.
users.cm publisher's note: we've had third-party software since the days of the apple ii, and user experience has always been a big factor in which apps were successful and which ones failed.