plus, be sure to check out the favediets book review of healthier  without wheat.
canadian residents may be  subject to withholding taxes and canadian residents are responsible for the  reporting any payment of any income taxes.
all issues and questions concerning the construction, validity, interpretation and enforceability of these official rules, or your rights and obligations or sponsor's or prime publishing llc's rights and obligations in connection with this promotion, shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the state of illinois, u.s.a., without giving effect to the conflict of laws rules thereof, and all proceedings shall take place in that state in the city of northbrook, county of cook.
failure to claim a prize within fourteen (14) days of the date on which the  prize is awarded shall result in forfeiture of the prize.
again,please show us that link!
the legitimate operation of the  sweepstakes is a violation of criminal and civil laws and should such an  attempt be made, sponsor reserves the right to seek damages and costs  (including without limitation, attorneys' fees) from any such person to the  fullest extent permitted by law.
send us the link to your blog post.
for millions of  people, bread, pasta, and many other foods are bad for their health.
each week, our  talented editors will bring you an assortment of healthy recipes, including  quick and easy recipes, that you can try in your very own kitchen.
for official rules mail a self- addressed stamped  envelope to the above address marked "gift basket official rules" for  receipt no later than 10 days before this gift basket promotion expires.
should you provide sponsor with invalid or ineligible email addresses, you may lose the entry earned for this email address.
failure to return  documents timely, or if prize notification or prize is returned as  non-deliverable, or if winner is found not to be in compliance with these  official rules or otherwise ineligible, may result in disqualification with an  alternate winner selected.
(see above) c/o prime publishing llc, 3400 dundee road,  northbrook, il 60062.
but it can be difficult to figure out if this is what is causing your problem.
each entry submission must be manually key stroked and manually entered by the individual entrant; automated and/or repetitive electronic submission of entries (including but not limited to entries made using any script, macro, bot or sweepstakes service) will be disqualified and transmissions from these or related email or ip addresses may be blocked.
employees  and directors of prime publishing llc, affiliated and subsidiary companies,  advertising and promotion agencies, judges and legal advisors, and the  immediate family (parent, child, sibling and spouse of each) or members of the  households of such employees and directors are not eligible.
no purchase necessary to enter or win.
all issues and questions concerning the  construction, validity, interpretation and enforceability of these official  rules, or your rights and obligations or sponsor's or prime publishing llc's  rights and obligations in connection with this promotion, shall be governed by,  and construed in accordance with, the laws of the state of illinois, u.s.a.,  without giving effect to the conflict of laws rules thereof, and all  proceedings shall take place in that state in the city of northbrook, county of  cook.
failure to return documents timely, or if prize notification or prize is returned as non-deliverable, or if winner is found not to be in compliance with these official rules or otherwise ineligible, may result in disqualification with an alternate winner selected.
as a condition of participating in this promotion, you agree that any and  all disputes which cannot be resolved between the parties, claims and causes of  action arising out of or connected with this promotion, or any prizes awarded,  or the determination of the winner shall be resolved individually, without  resort to any form of class action exclusively by arbitration pursuant to the  commercial arbitration rules of the american arbitration association, then  effective.
(see above) c/o prime publishing llc, 3400 dundee road, northbrook, il 60062.
one winner will win a copy of healthier without wheat: a new understanding of wheat allergies, celiac disease and non-celiac gluten intolerance by dr. stephen wangen.
please have the email sent only to those persons with whom you have either personal or professional relationships and that you feel would be interested in hearing about favediets.com.
where permitted by law, you hereby give permission to sponsor and its respective parent companies, distributors, affiliates, subsidiaries, officers, vendors, advertising agencies and promotion agencies and their respective directors, officers, employees, representatives and agents permission to use, reproduce, exhibit, display, print, distribute, publish and broadcast, without any obligation to compensate you, your name, city/state, picture, portrait, likeness, voice, biography, and winner's statement, contained in, or relating to, your entry in the promotion in any and all advertising marketing and promotional materials, worldwide in any media now known or hereafter developed, including but not limited to the world wide web, except where prohibited by law, and without notice, approval or review by you.
for names of winners, mail a self-addressed stamped envelope for receipt no  later than 30 days after this gift basket promotion expires to: gift basket  promotion # ___
we’ll send an email to the winner so please check to make sure your email  address is entered correctly.
some of the above limitations or exclusions may not apply to you.
each entry submission must be manually key stroked and  manually entered by the individual entrant; automated and/or repetitive  electronic submission of entries (including but not limited to entries made  using any script, macro, bot or sweepstakes service) will be disqualified and  transmissions from these or related email or ip addresses may be blocked.
eastern time (et), and ends on february 19, 2012 at 11:59:59 p.m. et.
please have the email  sent only to those persons with whom you have either personal or professional  relationships and that you feel would be interested in hearing about  favediets.com.
massachusetts michigan  minnesota mississippi missouri montana nebraska nevada new brunswick new  hampshire new jersey new mexico new york newfoundland and labrador north  carolina north dakota northwest territories nova scotia nunavut ohio oklahoma  ontario oregon pennsylvania prince edward island quebec rhode island  saskatchewan south carolina south dakota tennessee texas utah vermont virginia  washington west virginia wisconsin wyoming yukon zip: email: sign up for the quick and healthy recipes newsletter from favediets.com,
winners must claim  prize within 14 days of being announced.
for millions of people, bread, pasta, and many other foods are bad for their health.
general conditions winners may be required to complete, execute and return an affidavit of eligibility, a liability release, and where lawful, a publicity release within seven (7) days of notification in a form provided by sponsor.
if you twitter about this giveaway, you’ll get an extra entry.
healthier without wheat book giveaway enter to win this today!
"authorized account holder" is defined as the natural person who is  assigned to an e-mail address by an internet access provider, on-line service  provider or other organization (e.g., business, educational, institution, etc.)
the prizes offered in the promotion, along with the odds of winning and the approximate prize value for the prizes, are as follows: to be declared a winner for any of the prizes offered through the promotion, a potential winner from canada will be required to correctly answer, without assistance of any kind, whether mechanical or otherwise, a 4-function mathematical skill-testing question in no more than 5 minutes, the test to be administered by telephone.
the accumulation of coins generated through robotic, automatic, macro, or like methods is also strictly prohibited, regardless of whether the automated cheat was used in connection with your account.
with  special thanks to our “sponsor.”
you’ll get an extra entry for each of the  following (that's three free extra entries): if you blog about this giveaway at your blog, we’ll give you an  extra entry.
playing conditions sponsor reserves the right to investigate and verify any prize winner and disqualify any winner who it finds, in its sole judgment, has not complied with these official rules winner and verification determinations are made by sponsor, whose decisions are final and binding in all respects.
further, in any such dispute, under no circumstances will you be permitted to obtain awards for, and you hereby waive all rights to claim punitive, incidental or consequential damages, or any other damages, including attorneys' fees, other than your actual out-of- pocket expenses (i.e., costs associated with entering this promotion), and you further waive all rights to have damages multiplied or increased.
or the failure to capture such information, whether caused by  website users, tampering or hacking, or
please see below to easily share this contest on twitter and earn an extra  contest entry.
if you like this contest, don’t forget to sign up for a free  subscription to the quick and healthy recipes newsletter.
alternate method of entry: you may submit one entry per day by mail to: gift basket promotion #_____ (see above) c/o prime publishing llc, 3400 dundee road, northbrook, il 60062.
if you add a link to us on your blogroll or website, we’ll give you  an extra entry.
alternate method of entry: you may submit one entry per day by mail to:  gift basket promotion #_____ (see above) c/o prime publishing llc, 3400 dundee  road, northbrook, il 60062.
featuring free healthy recipes, diet tips, menu planning, contests and more.
if a potential winner from canada cannot be  contacted and the skill test administered within seven (7) days of  notification, or the question is not correctly answered, the prize will be  forfeited.
sponsor's computer system shall be the official computer for the random selection of winners.
if you post a link to this contest on your facebook page on your wall,  we'll give you an extra entry.
product purchase will not enhance  chances of winning a prize.
the legitimate operation of the sweepstakes is a violation of criminal and civil laws and should such an attempt be made, sponsor reserves the right to seek damages and costs (including without limitation, attorneys' fees) from any such person to the fullest extent permitted by law.
failure to claim a prize within fourteen (14) days of the date on which the prize is awarded shall result in forfeiture of the prize.
in the event of a dispute as to the identity of the winner based on an  e-mail address, the winning entry will be declared made by the authorized  account holder of the e-mail address submitted at time of entry.
healthier without wheat teaches you how to find out if wheat or gluten is making you sick, why this can be more difficult than it may appear, how hundreds of health problems are connected to wheat and gluten reactions, how you can be gluten intolerant even if you don't have celiac disease and why non-celiac gluten intolerance can make you just as sick as celiac disease.
the  accumulation of coins generated through robotic, automatic, macro, or like  methods is also strictly prohibited, regardless of whether the automated cheat  was used in connection with your account.
see terms of service.
eastern time, and  ends on february 19, 2012 at 11:59:59 p.m.
any attempt to deliberately damage any website or undermine the legitimate operation of the promotion may be a violation of criminal and civil laws, and should such an attempt be made, sponsor reserves the right to seek damages or other remedies from those responsible to the fullest extent permitted by law.
further,  provide only one (1) valid email address for any person; if a person has more  than one (1) email address, provide only one of their email addresses.
sponsor is not responsible for injury or damage to participants' or to any other person's computer related to or resulting from participating in this promotion or downloading materials from or use of the website.
prize: one copy of healthier without wheat: a new understanding of  wheat allergies, celiac disease and non-celiac gluten intolerance by dr.  stephen wangen to one person.
in no event will sponsor, prime publishing llc or their parent companies,  distributors, affiliates, subsidiaries, officers, vendors, advertising agencies  and promotion agencies and each of their respective directors, officers,  employees, representatives and agents, be responsible or liable for any damages  or losses of any kind, including direct, indirect, incidental, consequential or  punitive damages arising out of your participation in this promotion, access to  and use of the website or the downloading from and/or printing material  downloaded from the website.
[ close ][ close ] register now for free to: log in join us todayforgot password contest rules about us advertise contact us faq news privacy policy subscribe terms of service unsubscribe favediets does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
in the event of a dispute as to the identity of the winner based on an e-mail address, the winning entry will be declared made by the authorized account holder of the e-mail address submitted at time of entry.
further, provide only one (1) valid email address for any person; if a person has more than one (1) email address, provide only one of their email addresses.
canadian residents may be subject to withholding taxes, and canadian residents are responsible for the reporting and payment of any income taxes.
further, in any such dispute, under no circumstances will you be  permitted to obtain awards for, and you hereby waive all rights to claim  punitive, incidental or consequential damages, or any other damages, including  attorneys' fees, other than your actual out-of- pocket expenses (i.e., costs  associated with entering this promotion), and you further waive all rights to  have damages multiplied or increased.
that is responsible for assigning e- mail addresses for the domain associated  with the submitted e-mail address.
taxes are the sole responsibilty of winner.
caution: any attempt by a user or entrant or any other individual to deliberately damage any web site or undermine
we’ll send an email to the winner so please check to make sure your email address is entered correctly.
[ close ] official rules one copy of healthier without wheat: a new understanding of  wheat allergies, celiac disease and non-celiac gluten intolerance by dr.  stephen wangen to one person.
limitations of liability sponsor does not assume responsibility for any error, omission,  interruption, deletion, defect, delay in operation or transmission,  communications line failure, theft or destruction or unauthorized access to its  websites.
some jurisdictions may not allow the limitations or exclusion  of liability for incidental or consequential damages or exclusion of implied  warranties so
timeline: begins on february 8, 2012 at 12:00:01 a.m.
if the promotion is terminated due  to tampering or technical difficulties prior to its expiration date, notice  will be posted at http://www.favediets.com.
prime publishing, llc.
where permitted by law, you, and on behalf of your heirs, executors,  administrators and assigns, agree to release and hold harmless sponsor, prime  publishing, llc and their parent companies, distributors, affiliates,  subsidiaries, officers, vendors, advertising agencies and promotion agencies,  and each of their respective directors, officers, employees, representatives  and agents from any and all liability for, or relating to, any and all rights,  claims and causes of action whatsoever that you may have, or which may arise,  against any of the foregoing for any matter or cause whatsoever, including  without limitation, any injuries, loss or damage of any kind, whether direct or  compensatory, incidental, consequential or otherwise to any person, including  death, and property damage, arising in whole or in part, directly or  indirectly, from acceptance, possession, use or misuse of the prize, your  participation in any promotion-related activity, or your participation in the  promotion.
www.favediets.com register now!forgot password?email: log inforgot password?public/display name: optional: this is the name that will appear alongside any reviews you create on the site.
the deadline to enter is february 19, 2012 at 11:59:59 p.m.
* * the facebook and twitter  share feature will open a new window in your browser.
prizes courtesy of innate health publishing (“sponsor”).
sponsor is not responsible for any problems or technical malfunction of any telephone network or telephone lines, computer on-line systems, servers, computer equipment, software, failure of any e-mail or entry to be received by sponsor on account of technical problems, human error or traffic congestion on the internet or at any website, or any combination thereof.
now you have a chance to win a copy of healthier without wheat !
you’ll get an extra entry for each of the following (that's three free extra entries): the healthier without wheat book giveaway summary good luck!
sponsor reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to disqualify any  individual it finds, in its sole discretion, to be tampering with the entry  process or the operation of the promotion or the website; to be in violation of  the terms of service of the website; to be acting in violation of the official  rules; to be acting in a non-sportsmanlike or disruptive manner, or with intent  to annoy, abuse, threaten or harass any other person.
the prizes offered in the promotion, along with the odds of winning and the  approximate prize value for the prizes, are as follows: to be declared a winner for any of the prizes offered through the  promotion, a potential winner from canada will be required to correctly answer,  without assistance of any kind, whether mechanical or otherwise, a 4-function  mathematical skill-testing question in no more than 5 minutes, the test to be  administered by telephone.
the gift basket, product review and book review sweepstakes/giveaways,  collectively known as the "promotions," are offered and open only to  legal residents of united states and its territories (except residents of  puerto rico) and canada at least 13 years old at the time of entry.
the healthier without wheat book giveaway summary
check your local laws for any restrictions or limitations regarding these  limitations or exclusions.
for official rules mail a self- addressed stamped envelope to the above address marked "gift basket official rules" for receipt no later than 10 days before this gift basket promotion expires.
if the promotion is terminated due to tampering or technical difficulties prior to its expiration date, notice will be posted at http://www.favediets.com.
if for any reason this promotion is not capable of running as planned due  to infection by computer virus, bugs, tampering, unauthorized intervention,  fraud, technical failures, or any other causes which, in the sole opinion of  sponsor, corrupt or affect the administration, security, fairness, integrity,  or proper conduct of this promotion, sponsor reserves the right to cancel,  terminate, modify or suspend the promotion.
caution: any attempt by a user or entrant or any other individual to  deliberately damage any web site or undermine
the legitimate  operation of the promotion may be a violation of criminal and civil laws, and  should such an attempt be made, sponsor reserves the right to seek damages or  other remedies from those responsible to the fullest extent permitted by law.
healthier without wheat book giveaway
follow us on facebook get updates from favediets.com posted directly to your news feed.
healthier without wheat teaches you how to find out if wheat or gluten is  making you sick, why this can be more difficult than it may appear, how  hundreds of health problems are connected to wheat and gluten reactions, how  you can be gluten intolerant even if you don't have celiac disease and why  non-celiac gluten intolerance can make you just as sick as celiac disease.
playing conditions sponsor reserves the right to investigate and verify any prize winner and  disqualify any winner who it finds, in its sole judgment, has not complied with  these official rules winner and verification determinations are made by sponsor, whose decisions  are final and binding in all respects.
sponsor's computer system shall be the official computer for the random  selection of winners.
winners, and the prizes won by each winner, will be  determined by a random drawing.
check your local laws for any restrictions or limitations regarding these limitations or exclusions.
please see below to easily share this contest on  facebook and earn an extra contest entry.
california colorado connecticut delaware district of columbia florida georgia hawaii idaho illinois indiana iowa kansas kentucky louisiana maine manitoba maryland
any use of robotic, automatic, macro, programmed or like entry methods will void all such entries by such methods and persons using any such methods will be disqualified.
canadian residents may be subject to withholding taxes and canadian residents are responsible for the reporting any payment of any income taxes.
sponsor is not responsible for  injury or damage to participants' or to any other person's computer related to  or resulting from participating in this promotion or downloading materials from  or use of the website.
without limiting the foregoing, everything on the website and in this promotion is provided "as is" without warranty of any kind, either express or implied, including but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose or non-infringement.
general conditions winners may be required to complete, execute and return an affidavit of  eligibility, a liability release, and where lawful, a publicity release within  seven (7) days of notification in a form provided by sponsor.
please turn off any popup  blockers or allow this site to open popups.
but it can  be difficult to figure out if this is what is causing your problem.
each week, our talented editors will bring you an assortment of healthy recipes, including quick and easy recipes, that you can try in your very own kitchen.
without limiting the foregoing, everything on the  website and in this promotion is provided "as is" without warranty of  any kind, either express or implied, including but not limited to, the implied  warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose or  non-infringement.
sponsor is not responsible for any problems or technical malfunction  of any telephone network or telephone lines, computer on-line systems, servers,  computer equipment, software, failure of any e-mail or entry to be received by  sponsor on account of technical problems, human error or traffic congestion on  the internet or at any website, or any combination thereof.
product purchase will not enhance chances of winning a prize.
and because most doctors simply aren't knowledgeable about celiac and non-celiac gluten intolerance, it is that much harder to get good information.
terms you may enter up to one (1) email addresses per day.
enter your email address and we will send your password.
by entering, you (and your parents and legal guardians if you are a minor) agree to these "official rules" and that the decisions of sponsor and prime publishing llc are final and binding in all respects.
should you provide sponsor with invalid or ineligible email  addresses, you may lose the entry earned for this email address.
you can use letters, numbers and white space.
sponsor is not responsible for any incorrect or inaccurate capture of information or the failure to capture such information, whether caused by website users, tampering or hacking, or by any of the equipment or programming associated with or utilized in the promotion.
any use of robotic, automatic, macro, programmed or like entry methods will  void all such entries by such methods and persons using any such methods will  be disqualified.
if for any reason this promotion is not capable of running as planned due to infection by computer virus, bugs, tampering, unauthorized intervention, fraud, technical failures, or any other causes which, in the sole opinion of sponsor, corrupt or affect the administration, security, fairness, integrity, or proper conduct of this promotion, sponsor reserves the right to cancel, terminate, modify or suspend the promotion.
we'll also feature the best diet tips, healthy cooking ideas and more.
by any of the equipment or programming  associated with or utilized in the promotion.
where permitted by law, you hereby give permission to sponsor and its  respective parent companies, distributors, affiliates, subsidiaries, officers,  vendors, advertising agencies and promotion agencies and their respective  directors, officers, employees, representatives and agents permission to use,  reproduce, exhibit, display, print, distribute, publish and broadcast, without  any obligation to compensate you, your name, city/state, picture, portrait,  likeness, voice, biography, and winner's statement, contained in, or relating  to, your entry in the promotion in any and all advertising marketing and  promotional materials, worldwide in any media now known or hereafter developed,  including but not limited to the world wide web, except where prohibited by  law, and without notice, approval or review by you.
promotional period promotional period begins on february 8, 2012 at 12:00:01 a.m.
void in puerto rico, the province of quebec and where prohibited.
sponsor is not responsible for any incorrect or inaccurate capture of  information
do you have health problems you haven't been able to solve?
in no event will sponsor, prime publishing llc or their parent companies, distributors, affiliates, subsidiaries, officers, vendors, advertising agencies and promotion agencies and each of their respective directors, officers, employees, representatives and agents, be responsible or liable for any damages or losses of any kind, including direct, indirect, incidental, consequential or punitive damages arising out of your participation in this promotion, access to and use of the website or the downloading from and/or printing material downloaded from the website.
if a potential winner from canada cannot be contacted and the skill test administered within seven (7) days of notification, or the question is not correctly answered, the prize will be forfeited.
one winner will win a copy of healthier without  wheat: a new understanding of wheat allergies, celiac disease and non-celiac  gluten intolerance by dr. stephen wangen.
any attempt to deliberately damage any website or undermine
with special thanks to our “sponsor.”
"authorized account holder" is defined as the natural person who is assigned to an e-mail address by an internet access provider, on-line service provider or other organization (e.g., business, educational, institution, etc.) that is responsible for assigning e- mail addresses for the domain associated with the submitted e-mail address.
limitations of liability sponsor does not assume responsibility for any error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, delay in operation or transmission, communications line failure, theft or destruction or unauthorized access to its websites.
for names of winners, mail a self-addressed stamped envelope for receipt no later than 30 days after this gift basket promotion expires to: gift basket promotion # ___
we are giving away a copy of healthier without wheat to one person!
the gift basket, product review and book review sweepstakes/giveaways, collectively known as the "promotions," are offered and open only to legal residents of united states and its territories (except residents of puerto rico) and canada at least 13 years old at the time of entry.
share this contest on facebook and earn an extra contest entry.
where permitted by law, you, and on behalf of your heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, agree to release and hold harmless sponsor, prime publishing, llc and their parent companies, distributors, affiliates, subsidiaries, officers, vendors, advertising agencies and promotion agencies, and each of their respective directors, officers, employees, representatives and agents from any and all liability for, or relating to, any and all rights, claims and causes of action whatsoever that you may have, or which may arise, against any of the foregoing for any matter or cause whatsoever, including without limitation, any injuries, loss or damage of any kind, whether direct or compensatory, incidental, consequential or otherwise to any person, including death, and property damage, arising in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, from acceptance, possession, use or misuse of the prize, your participation in any promotion-related activity, or your participation in the promotion.
canadian residents may be subject to withholding taxes, and canadian  residents are responsible for the reporting and payment of any income taxes.
and because  most doctors simply aren't knowledgeable about celiac and non-celiac gluten  intolerance, it is that much harder to get good information.
first  name: last name: address: city: state/province: alabama  alaska alberta arizona arkansas british columbia
employees and directors of prime publishing llc, affiliated and subsidiary companies, advertising and promotion agencies, judges and legal advisors, and the immediate family (parent, child, sibling and spouse of each) or members of the households of such employees and directors are not eligible.
as a condition of participating in this promotion, you agree that any and all disputes which cannot be resolved between the parties, claims and causes of action arising out of or connected with this promotion, or any prizes awarded, or the determination of the winner shall be resolved individually, without resort to any form of class action exclusively by arbitration pursuant to the commercial arbitration rules of the american arbitration association, then effective.
plus, be sure to check out the favediets book review of healthier without wheat.
by entering, you  (and your parents and legal guardians if you are a minor) agree to these  "official rules" and that the decisions of sponsor and prime  publishing llc are final and binding in all respects.
we'll also  feature the best diet tips, healthy cooking ideas and more.
winners, and the prizes won by each winner, will be determined by a random drawing.
sponsor reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to disqualify any individual it finds, in its sole discretion, to be tampering with the entry process or the operation of the promotion or the website; to be in violation of the terms of service of the website; to be acting in violation of the official rules; to be acting in a non-sportsmanlike or disruptive manner, or with intent to annoy, abuse, threaten or harass any other person.
click here to  open facebook in a new window tweet  share this contest on twitter and  earn an extra contest entry.
eastern time  (et), and ends on february 19, 2012 at 11:59:59 p.m. et.
eastern time contest open to residents of the u.s. and canada only.
canadian residents may omit return postage for rule and winners list requests.
if you like this contest, don’t forget to sign up for a free subscription to the quick and healthy recipes newsletter.
sponsored by: prime publishing llc, 3400 dundee road, northbrook, il 60062.
one copy of healthier without wheat: a new understanding of wheat allergies, celiac disease and non-celiac gluten intolerance by dr. stephen wangen to one person.
some jurisdictions may not allow the limitations or exclusion of liability for incidental or consequential damages or exclusion of implied warranties so