a pizza made with whole wheat crust, tomato sauce, lowfat cheese, and vegetable toppings and served with a salad on the side makes a hearty and healthy meal.
rss | itunes | listen here where would we be without macaroni & cheese?
when you try ourchicken  parm in a pot, mama’s amazing ziti, and pizza bonita your family’s craving for pasta and pizza will surely be satisfied.
for that matter, where  would we be without spaghetti, ravioli, tortellini and the dozens of other  pasta shapes and varieties that we’ve come to rely on as dinner staples?
a half-cup serving has less than 100 calories, a minimal amount of fat, and is a good source of b vitamins, folic acid, and iron.
as for pizza, the same holds true.
a half-cup serving has less than 100 calories, a minimal amount of  fat, and is a good source of b vitamins, folic acid, and iron.
the key to  keeping it healthy is watching the portion size and what you put on it (go easy  on the cream sauces) and choosing whole wheat or whole wheat blends when  possible.
when you try ourchicken parm in a pot, mama’s amazing ziti, and pizza bonita your family’s craving for pasta and pizza will surely be satisfied.
bowtie pasta with salmon & peas cheese ravioli with pumpkin sauce cheeseburger pizza cheesy penne with chicken and broccoli chicken parm in a pot garden turkey meatballs and spaghetti kitchen sink pasta salad
the key to keeping it healthy is watching the portion size and what you put on it (go easy on the cream sauces) and choosing whole wheat or whole wheat blends when possible.
pasta is versatile, easy, fast and contrary to what a lot of people may think, nutritious.
a pizza made with whole wheat  crust, tomato sauce, lowfat cheese, and vegetable toppings and served with a  salad on the side makes a hearty and healthy meal.
for that matter, where would we be without spaghetti, ravioli, tortellini and the dozens of other pasta shapes and varieties that we’ve come to rely on as dinner staples?
rss | itunes | listen here pasta & pizza where would we be without macaroni & cheese?
pasta is versatile, easy, fast and contrary to what a lot of people may think,  nutritious.