skip the cheese, olives, and bacon bits and go for lots of fresh vegetables like green peppers, broccoli, carrots, and tomatoes.
in  dishes like eggplant parmesan, ask if the eggplant can be baked, not fried.
phone: 877-258-6178 or 231-526-6342 email: info@healthychild.net | click here to download a printable order form copyright © 2012 healthy child publications
unfortunately, large portions, high-calorie food preparation techniques,  and add-ons such as rolls and desserts have made restaurant meals a  contributing factor to overweight and obesity.
lower calorie choices include water, unsweetened tea or tea with a low-cal sweetener, coffee (minus cream and sugar), and diet soda.
if you order an appetizer, consider a broth or tomato-based soup, which may be relatively low in calories and may give you a feeling of fullness.
desserts some restaurants offer low-sugar and reduced-calorie desserts for people on  special diets.
if bread is served as an appetizer, skip the butter or spread and eat only one piece.
choose whole grain breads if they are available, and substitute mustard for mayonnaise or oil on your sandwiches.
eating out is an enjoyable experience and by making good choices, a dinner on the town can be a healthy dining experience.
if you are health conscious, visit restaurants that offer selections that fit with your dietary needs.
some restaurants offer low-sugar and reduced-calorie desserts for people on special diets.
add vegetables like peppers, tomatoes, and mushrooms and ask if low-fat cheese or cheese-less pizza is an option.
sweet tea, juice, regular sodas, milkshakes, and fruit drinks often have high calorie content.
better bread choices include whole-wheat rolls, french bread, or unbuttered bread sticks.
salad can be one of the healthiest selections on the menu but may be a poor  choice if it is laden with high-fat toppings.
ethnic foods in mexican restaurants, avoid foods that are fried, like chimichangas and  nacho chips.
the type of restaurant you choose can help determine how healthy your food will be.
long work days  and fast-paced lifestyles have driven many families toward the convenience of  restaurant dining rooms, drive-through windows, home delivery, and carry-out  meals.
however, with some planning and  thought, it is possible to eat a healthy meal away from home.
alcohol is high in calories;  so if you drink, do so sparingly.
restaurants that offer buffets or “all  you can eat” deals can often be a place to overeat.
another idea is to look for fruit salad in the menu’s salad section.
restaurants that offer buffets or all you can eat deals can often be a place to overeat.
ask about whole wheat pastas, which are healthier than traditional pasta.
for example, steamed rice would be a healthier choice than fried rice.
black beans and pinto beans are lower-fat than refried beans.
many  mexican dishes are covered in high-calorie cheese, guacamole, and sour cream;  so request salsa as a topping instead.
when ordering an entree, consider how the food is prepared.
look for dishes  where the vegetables are stir-fried, grilled or steamed and avoid the tempura  vegetables.
phone: 877-258-6178 or 231-526-6342 email:  info@healthychild.net | click here to download a printable order form copyright © 2012 healthy child publications
if you are with other people, suggest sharing appetizers.
when eating pizza, reduce calories by choosing a thin crust and replacing  bacon, sausage, and pepperoni with leaner meats, such as chicken and ham.
eating out is an enjoyable experience and by making good choices, a dinner  on the town can be a healthy dining experience.
if the food is described as fried, sauteed, breaded, battered, tempura, creamed, scalloped, crispy, au gratin, or basted, avoid it.
fruit is a healthier alternative to traditional desserts and still gives a sweet taste.
you can eat lighter in an italian restaurant by avoiding cream sauces, pestos, and meat sauces; opt for tomato-based sauces such a marinara instead.
chicken, seafood and beans are generally better choices than beef or pork.
to control your hunger and prevent overeating at mealtime, try eating a small snack such as an apple before your meal.
main courses when ordering an entree, consider how the food is prepared.
if your  table has only regular soy sauce, request a lighter version.
if you  are with other people, suggest sharing appetizers.
hip on health | health & safety resource guide |  order form free issue | publisher's letter | contact us | author guidelines healthy child publications po box 624, harbor springs mi, 49740
salad can be one of the healthiest selections on the menu but may be a poor choice if it is laden with high-fat toppings.
if ordering meat, ask for a lean cut and trim  away any visible fat.
restaurants that offer a variety of foods  prepared with a variety of cooking methods such as baking, steaming, and  grilling in additional to deep frying.
make your salad is a rainbow of colorful veggies and  request that low-fat or fat-free dressing be served on the side.
if the food is  described as fried, sauteed, breaded, battered, tempura, creamed, scalloped,  crispy, au gratin, or basted, avoid it.
sweet tea, juice, regular sodas, milkshakes,  and fruit drinks often have high calorie content.
unfortunately, large portions, high-calorie food preparation techniques, and add-ons such as rolls and desserts have made restaurant meals a contributing factor to overweight and obesity.
look for healthier alternatives that have been poached, steamed, roasted,  broiled, stir-fried, or grilled.
if bread is served as an appetizer, skip the butter or spread and eat only  one piece.
ask your server about substitutions, such as a salad instead of french  fries or fruit instead of chips.
in mexican restaurants, avoid foods that are fried, like chimichangas and nacho chips.
in dishes like eggplant parmesan, ask if the eggplant can be baked, not fried.
look for healthier alternatives that have been poached, steamed, roasted, broiled, stir-fried, or grilled.
add  vegetables like peppers, tomatoes, and mushrooms and ask if low-fat cheese or  cheese-less pizza is an option.
marna holland, parent educator asheville, nc, city schools preschool, and instructor, western carolina university abcs of eating out, www.ext.vt.edu/pubs/nutrition/348-951/348-951.html dining out, www.lowfatlifestyle.com/diningout.htm eating well, www.aarp.org/health/staying_healthy/eating/ fast food report card, ww1.heartandstroke.ca/images/english/eatingout.pdf tips for healthy eating out, www.uhs.wisc.edu/docs/uwhealth_eating_out_203.pdf healthy child publications po box 624, harbor springs mi, 49740
another idea is to look for fruit salad in the menus salad section.
if your table has only regular soy sauce, request a lighter version.
choose whole grain breads if they are available, and substitute  mustard for mayonnaise or oil on your sandwiches.
if you are health conscious, visit restaurants that offer selections  that fit with your dietary needs.
make your salad is a rainbow of colorful veggies and request that low-fat or fat-free dressing be served on the side.
lean meats like ham, turkey, or chicken are healthier options than bologna, salami, or pepperoni.
april-may 2007: volume 10, issue 3 return to volume 10  articles return to library of articles main h e a l  th  &  y
long work days and fast-paced lifestyles have driven many families toward the convenience of restaurant dining rooms, drive-through windows, home delivery, and carry-out meals.
these words indicate the dish is high-calorie, either because it has absorbed butter or oil through frying or because of the addition of ingredients like cream, butter, or cheese.
skip the cheese, olives, and  bacon bits and go for lots of fresh vegetables like green peppers, broccoli,  carrots, and tomatoes.
marna holland, parent educator asheville, nc, city schools  preschool, and instructor, western carolina university internet resources abc’s of eating out, www.ext.vt.edu/pubs/nutrition/348-951/348-951.html dining out, www.lowfatlifestyle.com/diningout.htm fast food report card, ww1.heartandstroke.ca/images/english/eatingout.pdf tips for healthy eating out, www.uhs.wisc.edu/docs/uwhealth_eating_out_203.pdf healthy  childcare® home page | library | search | study guides links | i am amazing |
better bread choices include whole-wheat rolls, french bread, or  unbuttered bread sticks.
no matter what you chose for dining, delivery, or take out, you can always  control your own calorie and fat intake.
fruit is a healthier alternative to traditional desserts and still gives a  sweet taste.
you can eat lighter in an italian restaurant by avoiding cream sauces,  pestos, and meat sauces; opt for tomato-based sauces such a marinara instead.
look for dishes where the vegetables are stir-fried, grilled or steamed and avoid the tempura vegetables.
when eating pizza, reduce calories by choosing a thin crust and replacing bacon, sausage, and pepperoni with leaner meats, such as chicken and ham.
no matter what you chose for dining, delivery, or take out, you can always control your own calorie and fat intake.
ask your server about substitutions, such as a salad instead of french fries or fruit instead of chips.
if ordering meat, ask for a lean cut and trim away any visible fat.
to control your hunger and prevent  overeating at mealtime, try eating a small snack such as an apple before your  meal.
beverages can add unnoticed calories to your meal.
these words indicate the dish is  high-calorie, either because it has absorbed butter or oil through frying or  because of the addition of ingredients like cream, butter, or cheese.
alcohol is high in calories; so if you drink, do so sparingly.
appetizers, salads, and beverages if you order an appetizer, consider a broth or tomato-based soup, which may  be relatively low in calories and may give you a feeling of fullness.
delis typically offer a wide variety of sandwich fillings.
lean meats like  ham, turkey, or chicken are healthier options than bologna, salami, or  pepperoni.
however, with some planning and thought, it is possible to eat a healthy meal away from home.
americans eat more than 20 percent of meals outside of their homes and spend more than 40 percent of their food budgets in restaurants.
lower calorie choices  include water, unsweetened tea or tea with a low-cal sweetener, coffee (minus  cream and sugar), and diet soda.
many mexican dishes are covered in high-calorie cheese, guacamole, and sour cream; so request salsa as a topping instead.
if you really want to eat a dessert, plan ahead and reduce what you eat for the rest of the day to accommodate the extra calories.
o u healthy restaurant eating americans eat more than 20 percent of meals outside of their homes and  spend more than 40 percent of their food budgets in restaurants.
in asian restaurants, look for foods that are steamed rather than fried.
restaurants that offer a variety of foods prepared with a variety of cooking methods such as baking, steaming, and grilling in additional to deep frying.
general tips the type of restaurant you choose can help determine how healthy your food  will be.
if you really want to eat a dessert, plan ahead and reduce what  you eat for the rest of the day to accommodate the extra calories.