so roxie, my friend lily, and i met up for dinner here last tuesday.
the italia was off the white side of the menu, meaning it had no  sauce.
it was a good prosciutto-parmesan-arugula pizza, though the toppings  didn’t blow me away.
the margherita was your classic, marinara sauce, mozzarella and basil.
next up were the pizzas.
i’m not always a  huge fan of calimari, because i often find it too chewy.
i could have done with a little more basil, but i though the sauce was incredible… really bright tomato flavors.
the stand out on both pizzas, to me, was the crust.
looking around, the pizzas looked just slightly bigger than personal size– i could probably have finished a whole one with no appetizer, but i didn’t need one to myself.
the zucchini thrown in to the didn’t add a whole lot, but made me feel a tiny bit healthier.
i would highly recommend il canale for a  nice meal out with your friends… it is budget-friendly, good for  sharing, and has excellent food.
so we decided to share an order of calimari  and fried zucchini to start, and then went for a margherita pizza and the  italia.
it was proclaimed georgetown’s first “truly neapolitan  pizza,” and though i know new york is home to lots of great neapolitan  places, this one is practically on my doorstep.
il canale get every new post delivered to your inbox.
this wasn’t  chewy at all, however, and the batter was perfectly light and salty.
as expected on a tuesday, it wasn’t exactly packed, but i imagine it gets busier on weekends and i would probably make a reservation.
(potatoes, bread, pasta… yes, the spices love their carbs.)
so best for the area is good  enough for me.
i could have done with a little more  basil, but i though the sauce was incredible… really bright tomato  flavors.
it was proclaimed georgetown’s first “truly neapolitan pizza,” and though i know new york is home to lots of great neapolitan places, this one is practically on my doorstep.
i would highly recommend il canale for a nice meal out with your friends… it is budget-friendly, good for sharing, and has excellent food.
thankfully, we were soon proven wrong, and though the bread itself was pretty standard, the roasted garlic in the olive oil that came with it was awesome.
as expected on a tuesday, it wasn’t exactly packed, but i  imagine it gets busier on weekends and i would probably make a reservation.
super chewy and really well flavored, it made me understand the cult of the neapolitan pizza.
it was a good prosciutto-parmesan-arugula pizza, though the toppings didn’t blow me away.
the italia was off the white side of the menu, meaning it had no sauce.
super chewy and really well flavored, it made me understand the cult of the  neapolitan pizza.
powered by wordpress.com
so roxie, my friend lily, and i met up for dinner here last  tuesday.
as soon as i read a review of il canale on serious eats, i knew i had to  go.
so we decided to share an order of calimari and fried zucchini to start, and then went for a margherita pizza and the italia.
looking around, the pizzas looked just slightly bigger than personal  size– i could probably have finished a whole one with no appetizer, but i  didn’t need one to myself.
the margherita was your classic,  marinara sauce, mozzarella and basil.
the calimari was way better than this terrible picture
the  zucchini thrown in to the didn’t add a whole lot, but made me feel a tiny  bit healthier.
$15 each for a filling meal… granted we didn’t get drinks or dessert, but it is undoubtedly very well priced (and certainly rivals the other italian eateries in georgetown in this respect).
the calimari came next, and totally blew me away.
best of all was the bill we got at the end!
$15 each for  a filling meal… granted we didn’t get drinks or dessert, but it is  undoubtedly very well priced (and certainly rivals the other italian eateries  in georgetown in this respect).
restaurant review: il canale in georgetown 12 feb the calimari was way better than this terrible picture
we were a little worried at first that because “foccacia” was listed on the menu, we wouldn’t get free bread.
we were a little worried at first that because  “foccacia” was listed on the menu, we wouldn’t get free  bread.
so best for the area is good enough for me.
i’m not always a huge fan of calimari, because i often find it too chewy.
as soon as i read a review of il canale on serious eats, i knew i had to go.
this wasn’t chewy at all, however, and the batter was perfectly light and salty.
thankfully, we were soon proven wrong, and though the bread itself was  pretty standard, the roasted garlic in the olive oil that came with it was  awesome.