anything in batter will be high in fat.
some takeaways and restaurants now list calories on their menus, which lets you opt for something with fewer calories.
with pasta dishes, if you want a lower-fat option then go for a sauce that's based on tomatoes or vegetables rather than cream.
however, when did you last see breaded fish in a chippy - i never have.
if you choose a curry, try not to eat all  the sauce.
with an account you can keep track of pages on the site and save them to this tab, which you can access on every page when you are logged in.
try to avoid: large deep-pan pizzas, pizzas with the  crust stuffed with cheese, triple cheese with pepperoni pizzas, creamy pasta  sauces, garlic bread.
by the way presumably we shouldn't eat the batter round fish either, can't be better for you than anything else deep fried surely.
if you’re having a burger, avoid breaded or battered chicken or fish patties, extra cheese, bacon strips and high-fat sauces such as mayonnaise.
below are some tips on foods to avoid and healthier options when ordering your favourite takeaway.
equally anyone who has eaten real asian food will know what gets served in uk often is a poor unhealthy second to the wide range of food, much very healthy, in home cooking.
what should i choose a jumbo sausage or a thai curry for overall health?
chinese anything that’s battered or marked as ‘crispy’ on the  menu means it’s deep fried.
log in keep track of important pages easily find again pages you have been reading have pages recommended to you
don't eat all the batter around your fish because it soaks up a lot of fat.
avoid deep-fried foods like samosas.
for a healthier option, go for a shish  kebab, which is a skewer with whole cuts of meat or fish and usually grilled.
the thicker the chips the better because they absorb less fat.
report this content as offensive or unsuitable comment id 15325
instead, go for a regular, single-patty hamburger without mayo  or cheese and have with extra salad.
healthier options: crab and corn soup, steamed dumplings,  steamed vegetables and plain boiled rice, steamed fish, chicken chop suey,  szechuan prawns.
thai curries, such as the popular green and red curries, contain coconut milk, which is high in saturated fat.
watch out for starters such as prawn crackers  and spring rolls because these are generally deep fried.
healthier options: clear soups such as tom yum, salads,  stir-fried meat, fish or vegetable dishes, steamed seafood dishes, such as fish  or mussels.
fish and chips there are lots of ways of making your trip to the chippy a healthier one.
its possible to make curries without oil too.
no wonder there obeise!
balanced diet is the way to do it calorie control is the key report this content as offensive or unsuitable comment id 1719 this has been really really helpful and will definitely make me feel less guilty when eating out report this content as offensive or unsuitable comment id 1714 login or register to add your comment find addresses, phone numbers and websites for services near yousearch for local services choose a service: sexual health alcohol addiction support stop-smoking services sport and fitness located in: check if you're drinking too much
try to avoid: large doner kebab with mayonnaise and no  salad, burgers with cheese and mayonnaise, thin-cut chips, chicken or fish  patties deep fried in batter.
healthier options: tandoori or madras with chicken,  prawns or vegetables, plain rice and chapatti.
some takeaway meals can push you over your recommended daily maximum amount ofsalt and fat, which can lead to a variety of health problems, such as heart disease and diabetes.
if you're having a starter or a dessert then you could go for a smaller main meal such as a starter-size pasta with a side salad – italian restaurants often serve two sizes of pasta dishes.
the term curry implies indians eat curries every day but in reality curries are highly varied, in the major with no meat whatsoever.
it is interesting that although cheese is targeted in this advice, the extent to which cream is added to so many supermarket takeaways isn't.
ask for your fish and chips without salt – if you want some salt then add a small amount yourself.
it's not difficult to make a curry at home, just google the recipes.
you could ask for some extra veg on your pizza to bump up your daily fruit and veg portions.
report this content as offensive or unsuitable comment id 19885 it is a bit disappointing that the advice is so broad it doesn't help you to really understand the evidence behind it and what is best for you in the context of what is a good diet for you or the impact you have on the environment.
these takeaways are more alien to indians than to the british!
if it calls for coconut milk, just use normal milk.
gimmick- don’t get me wrong
but if you don't want to increase the saturated fat content and number of calories in your meal, don't ask for extra cheese.
any information they give has not been checked and may not be accurate.
it is also much more environmentally friendly than the cruel intensive milk farming that has a high carbon footprint.
if you're having a starter or a dessert then you could go for a smaller  main meal such as a starter-size pasta with a side salad – italian  restaurants often serve two sizes of pasta dishes.
some takeaways and restaurants now list calories on their menus,  which lets you opt for something with fewer calories.
thai try to stick to stir-fried dishes or steamed dishes containing chicken,  fish or vegetables instead of curries.
try to avoid: thin-cut chips, pies such as cheese and  onion pie or steak and kidney pie, jumbo sausage.
last reviewed: 18/08/2011 next review due: 18/08/2013 more articles on: men's health 18-39 share: save: subscribe: how helpful is this page?
if you're having pizza, choose lower-fat toppings, such as vegetables, ham,  fish and prawns.
you could ask for some extra veg on your pizza to bump up your  daily fruit and veg portions.
have some steamed rice with your meal instead of egg fried rice.
your health, your choices information navigationsearch entire site main navigation don't miss out ... exercise your right to choice in the nhs learn about patient choice now share: save: subscribe: takeaways are often cheap, convenient and satisfying but, unfortunately, they're not always very healthy.
too much of any fat will be high in calories but coconut milk isn't the usual meat based saturated fat, it has a different saturated fat structure and has lots of health benefits.
try to avoid: fried rice, fish cakes, spring rolls, prawn  crackers, satay skewers with peanut sauce and sweet and sour dishes.
try to have  a smaller portion or share your chips.
with pasta dishes, if you want a lower-fat option then go for a sauce  that's based on tomatoes or vegetables rather than cream.
if you choose a curry, try not to eat all the sauce.
takeaways are a western marketing
healthier options: fish coated in breadcrumbs, mushy  peas, thicker-cut chips without salt.
instead, go for a regular, single-patty hamburger without mayo or cheese and have with extra salad.
even some types of poppadoms can be made by putting them in the microwave for 10 seconds without any oil!
this content as offensive or unsuitable comment id 19619 to those who think 'indians' (a vague european term to describe 20% of the worlds population) eat those sort of takeaways every day really don’t understand that most indians eat lentils, rice, vegetables as their staple diet.
women's health 60-plus takeaways are often cheap, convenient and satisfying but,  unfortunately, they're not always very healthy.
indian try to avoid anything that’s creamy or deep fried.
have a portion of baked beans or mushy peas and bread with your fish and chips.
find out if your activity levels need a boost find easy exercise and healthy eating tips for you and your family health for men aged 18 to 39, including eating well, exercise, how to lose the gut and secrets of a sex doctor whether you're cooking for a family or eating on the run, our tips and recipes can help you get your 5 a day find out how to achieve a healthy, nutritious diet to help you look and feel your best a monthly e-newsletter for you and your family, packed with tips and advice around health, fitness and lifestyle.
to reduce the  amount of fat in your meal, choose dishes with tomato-based sauces, such as  tandoori and madras, plain rice or chapatti.
ask for your fish and chips without salt  – if you want some salt then add a small amount yourself.
based on 82 ratings 7 comments about ‘healthier takeaways’ our rules: comments are personal views.
create account already have an account?
try to avoid anything that’s creamy or deep fried.
try to replace cream with milk and perhaps add a little cornflour/tomato puree/potato or mashed potato if you need to thicken the curry.
rather than garlic bread, which often contains a lot of butter (and is  therefore high in fat), you could try bruschetta, which is a tasty  ciabatta bread toasted and topped with fresh tomatoes and herbs.
please let us know where your research evidence comes from and who funds it so we can use your advice more appropriately otherwise keep up the good work
healthier options: shish kebab with  pitta bread and salad, grilled burgers made from lean fish or meat (beef or  whole chicken breast) and without cheese and mayonnaise.
some takeaway meals can push you over your recommended daily maximum  amount ofsalt and fat, which can lead to a variety of health problems, such as  heart disease and diabetes.
restaurants and take-aways should be for special occasions/treats only as these curries are loaded with so much oil, that sometimes looking at it puts you off.
if available, have fish coated in breadcrumbs as it soaks up less fat.
try to avoid: sweet and sour battered pork balls with  special or egg fried rice, prawn toast, spring rolls.
fish and chips that are cooked in oil at the right temperature taste better  and absorb less fat.
sweet and sour pork is usually battered.
kebab and burgers donor kebabs can be high in fat.
if the recipe calls for a lot of oil or ghee/butter only use a little olive or rapeseed oil.
also choose plenty of vegetables,  including lentil side dishes (known as dhal).
but they are not indian food as i know it.
donor kebabs can be high in fat.
last reviewed: 18/08/2011 more articles on:  men's health 18-39 share:
would be good to know.
need to consider the terrible impact of over fishing too.
try to avoid: any creamy curries such as korma, passanda  or masala with pilau rice, naan, bhajis, pakoras and poppadoms.
to reduce the amount of fat in your meal, choose dishes with tomato-based sauces, such as tandoori and madras, plain rice or chapatti.
watch out for starters such as prawn crackers and spring rolls because these are generally deep fried.
there are lots of ways of making your trip to the chippy a healthier one.
anything in batter  will be high in fat.
so, all the studies that indicate that it is high glycaemic foods that contribute to obesity should be ignored, because the food industry keeps lobbying authorities to maintain the status quo with regard to healthy eating guidelines?
the service will resume in the near future nhs choices e-newsletters your health e-newsletter you can't sign up for our emails at the moment
steamed dishes are the best option, but stir-fries are fine because they're usually lower in fat and include vegetables.
for a healthier option, go for a shish kebab, which is a skewer with whole cuts of meat or fish and usually grilled.
if you're having pizza, choose lower-fat toppings, such as vegetables, ham, fish and prawns.
check your bmi and get tailored advice find out if your diet is healthy are you putting your health at risk?
but if you don't want to increase the saturated  fat content and number of calories in your meal, don't ask for extra cheese.
if you’re having a burger, avoid breaded or battered chicken or  fish patties, extra cheese, bacon strips and high-fat sauces such as  mayonnaise.
so watch out for soggy batter and chips because this  is often a sign that the oil wasn't hot enough.
we're changing the sign-up process for our newsletters and can't accept new subscribers right now.
try to stick to stir-fried dishes or steamed dishes containing chicken, fish or vegetables instead of curries.
many people also have intolerance to milk, fortunately coconut cream is a much better alternative for many of us.
also choose plenty of vegetables, including lentil side dishes (known as dhal).
below are some tips on foods to avoid and healthier options when ordering  your favourite takeaway.
healthier options: small or medium pizza with a thin base  and vegetable or lean meat topping, tomato-based pasta sauces, bruschetta.
thai curries, such as the popular green and red curries, contain coconut  milk, which is high in saturated fat.
report this content as offensive or unsuitable comment id 16212 not sure what exactly cushing0 meant when they said people live on that type of food...but its perfectly possible to eat indian food that is healthy.
anything that’s battered or marked as ‘crispy’ on the menu means it’s deep fried.
well i don think an indian or any other takeaway is wrong every now and again, but people actually live on these types of food!
rather than garlic bread, which often contains a lot of butter (and is therefore high in fat), you could try bruschetta, which is a tasty ciabatta bread toasted and topped with fresh tomatoes and herbs.
try to have a smaller portion or share your chips.
or you could try it for yourself; less bread, less batter (flour), less potato-see what happens... report this content as offensive or unsuitable comment id 20155 who cares about fat and salt, burgers: nomnomnom!
if only we could get that in take aways.
fish and chips that are cooked in oil at the right temperature taste better and absorb less fat.
watch out for other foods that are high in fat, such as pies and sausages.
steamed dishes are the best option, but stir-fries are fine because they're  usually lower in fat and include vegetables.
so watch out for soggy batter and chips because this is often a sign that the oil wasn't hot enough.
(or chinese or any other food for that matter) most indian's eat rice and curry and everyday, but because its made at home only a little oil is added and the flavour is brought out by the spices.