manufacturers including advancepierre foods, domino’s pizza, jtm food  group, mccain foods usa, rich products corporation, schwan’s food service  and trident seafoods pledge not to price healthy options out of reach of school  cafeterias.
product commitments fall in at least one of the following categories within the alliance’s science-based guidelines for school foods: “increased access and lower prices to purchase healthy meal components makes it easier for schools to offer healthier school meals—a key strategy to help combat childhood obesity and to move students and staff toward ideal cardiovascular health,” said ralph sacco, m.d., president of the american heart association and chairman, department of neurology miller school of medicine university of miami.
as a result of these agreements, more than 30 million students across the country will have access to healthier school meals – including at least 14 million students who currently participate in the free and reduced lunch program.
to help schools more  easily navigate the alliance and usda standards, the alliance will update their  guidelines to meet or exceed the final rule.
“today is just the beginning.
additional components in the alliance’s school meals strategy to  support food service professionals being launched over the next year will  include in-person and online training programs, menu planning and cooking  techniques and recipes from celebrity chefs to school food service staff.
participating manufacturers have also pledged to increase the sales of compliant products by to least 50 percent of their entire school sales within five years.
advancepierre foods, domino’s pizza, jtm food group, mccain foods  usa, rich products corporation, schwan’s food service, trident seafoods,  hps, premier healthcare alliance, summa/provista, interflex, dole food company,  inc., and thenational turkey federation have joined the effort to combat  childhood obesity by agreeing to increase the availability of products that can  lead to healthy schools meals.
the goal of the alliance is to reduce the nationwide prevalence of childhood obesity by 2015, and to empower kids to make healthy lifestyle choices.
manufacturers have committed to aggressively promote products that align  with the alliance’s healthy schools program standards and will help  schools meet or exceed the requirements currently being finalized by the usda.
groundbreaking industry agreements help increase availability of healthy school meals thirteen leading school meals manufacturers, group purchasing organizations and technology companies team up with the alliance for a healthier generation to make healthier school lunches possible for more than 30 million students miami, fla., january 21, 2011 - contact: alliance for a healthier generation megan mcintyre 917-339-5250 megan.mcintyre@healthiergeneration.org national turkey federation sherrie rosenblatt 202-730-9639 srosenblatt@turkeyfed.org a new multi-industry voluntary agreement announced today by the alliance for a healthier generation brings together leading food manufacturers, group purchasing organizations and technology companies to help america’s schools serve healthier meals at more affordable prices.
product commitments fall in at least one of the following categories within the  alliance’s science-based guidelines for school foods: lean protein products, such as lean red meat, skinless poultry, lean deli  meats, fat-free or low-fat cheese, beans, and tofu.
by applying this same model to america’s schools, schools will see a savings of 10 to 20 percent in their food and beverage purchases.
the food manufacturer, group purchasing  and technology agreements are just three components of the alliance’s  larger healthier school meals strategy with the goal of impacting more than 30  million students within a five year period,” said ginny ehrlich,  executive director of the alliance for a healthier generation.
gpos have been successful at consolidating buying power in other institutional food service settings including hospitals, healthcare facilities and universities.
parents, school administrators and food service directors can help the  alliance fight childhood obesity and bring healthier meals to schools across  the countryby joining the alliance for a healthier generation’s healthy  schools program online atwww.healthiergeneration.org.
gpos have been  successful at consolidating buying power in other institutional food service  settings including hospitals, healthcare facilities and universities.
signatories will set prices for healthier items that meet the alliance for a healthier generation’s science-based standards for nutrition at prices no higher than less healthy comparable products.
founded  in 2005 by the american heart association and william j. clinton foundation,  the alliance works to positively affect the places that can make a difference  to a child’s health: homes, schools, doctor’s offices and  communities.
“with students consuming up to half of their daily calories at school, healthy school meals are key to winning the fight against childhood obesity,” said president bill clinton, founder of the william j. clinton foundation.
participating manufacturers have also pledged to increase the sales of  compliant products by to least 50 percent of their entire school sales within  five years.
the alliance agreement announced  today helps alleviate barriers districts will face in serving healthier school  meals, and will enhance schools’ ability to meet those updated standards.
non-fried vegetables.
last week, the usda released the proposed rule for the nutrition standards  in the national school lunch and school breakfast program.
manufacturers including advancepierre foods, domino’s pizza, jtm food group, mccain foods usa, rich products corporation, schwan’s food service and trident seafoods pledge not to price healthy options out of reach of school cafeterias.
about the alliance for a healthier generation the alliance for a healthier generation works to address one of the  nation’s leading public health threats – childhood obesity.
manufacturers have committed to aggressively promote products that align with the alliance’s healthy schools program standards and will help schools meet or exceed the requirements currently being finalized by the usda.
to learn more about the alliance for a healthier generation, visit www.healthiergeneration.org ###
the alliance agreement announced today helps alleviate barriers districts will face in serving healthier school meals, and will enhance schools’ ability to meet those updated standards.
signatories to these first of their kind  agreements brokered by the alliance for a healthier generation, founded by the  american heart association and the william j. clinton foundation, have agreed  to develop, market and competitively price products that will lead to healthier  school meal options; streamline the ordering process; and make identifying  healthy options easier.
in order to help schools take the first step in changing their purchasing process, the alliance is collaborating with the technology firm interflex to create an online tool that streamlines the procurement process by assisting schools with planning, bidding and purchasing healthier products.
by  applying this same model to america’s schools, schools will see a savings  of 10 to 20 percent in their food and beverage purchases.
dole food company, inc. and the national turkey federation have also agreed to leverage their tools and resources to support schools in their implementation of this new approach to school meals.
to help schools more easily navigate the alliance and usda standards, the alliance will update their guidelines to meet or exceed the final rule.
there is no cost to join  the healthy schools program, and members have access to hundreds of resources,  including a variety of free technical tools that enable anyone who makes  purchasing decisions about school meals to implement and promote healthier  options for students.
in order to help schools take the first step in changing their purchasing  process, the alliance is collaborating with the technology firm interflex to  create an online tool that streamlines the procurement process by assisting  schools with planning, bidding and purchasing healthier products.
zero trans fat cooking oils.
signatories will set prices for healthier items that meet the  alliance for a healthier generation’s science-based standards for  nutrition at prices no higher than less healthy comparable products.
“building on our agreements that have reduced the number of  calories in beverages shipped to schools by 88 percent, the alliance is now  focusing on helping provide more nutritious meal options to more than 30  million school children nationwide.”
dole food  company, inc. and the national turkey federation have also agreed to leverage  their tools and resources to support schools in their implementation of this  new approach to school meals.
202-730-9639 srosenblatt@turkeyfed.org a new multi-industry voluntary agreement announced today by the alliance  for a healthier generation brings together leading food manufacturers, group  purchasing organizations and technology companies to help america’s
there is no cost to join the healthy schools program, and members have access to hundreds of resources, including a variety of free technical tools that enable anyone who makes purchasing decisions about school meals to implement and promote healthier options for students.
founded in 2005 by the american heart association and william j. clinton foundation, the alliance works to positively affect the places that can make a difference to a child’s health: homes, schools, doctor’s offices and communities.
“building on our agreements that have reduced the number of calories in beverages shipped to schools by 88 percent, the alliance is now focusing on helping provide more nutritious meal options to more than 30 million school children nationwide.”
parents, school administrators and food service directors can help the alliance fight childhood obesity and bring healthier meals to schools across the countryby joining the alliance for a healthier generation’s healthy schools program online atwww.healthiergeneration.org.
as a result of these  agreements, more than 30 million students across the country will have access  to healthier school meals – including at least 14 million students who  currently participate in the free and reduced lunch program.
“increased access and lower prices to purchase healthy meal  components makes it easier for schools to offer healthier school meals—a  key strategy to help combat childhood obesity and to move students and staff  toward ideal cardiovascular health,” said ralph sacco, m.d., president of  the american heart association and chairman, department of neurology miller  school of medicine university of miami.
the  goal of the alliance is to reduce the nationwide prevalence of childhood  obesity by 2015, and to empower kids to make healthy lifestyle choices.
advancepierre foods, domino’s pizza, jtm food group, mccain foods usa, rich products corporation, schwan’s food service, trident seafoods, hps, premier healthcare alliance, summa/provista, interflex, dole food company, inc., and thenational turkey federation have joined the effort to combat childhood obesity by agreeing to increase the availability of products that can lead to healthy schools meals.
to learn more about the alliance for a healthier generation, visit  www.healthiergeneration.org
schools can also save time and gain buying power by joining a group purchasing organization (gpo).
“with students consuming up to half of their daily calories at  school, healthy school meals are key to winning the fight against childhood  obesity,” said president bill clinton, founder of the william j. clinton  foundation.
fresh, canned or frozen fruit.
additional components in the alliance’s school meals strategy to support food service professionals being launched over the next year will include in-person and online training programs, menu planning and cooking techniques and recipes from celebrity chefs to school food service staff.
the food manufacturer, group purchasing and technology agreements are just three components of the alliance’s larger healthier school meals strategy with the goal of impacting more than 30 million students within a five year period,” said ginny ehrlich, executive director of the alliance for a healthier generation.
with today’s agreement three of the  largest gpos in the u.s. with more than $70 billion in combined buying power,  hps, premier healthcare alliance and summa/provista, have agreed to offer  products that meet the alliance’s nutritional guidelines.
with today’s agreement three of the largest gpos in the u.s. with more than $70 billion in combined buying power, hps, premier healthcare alliance and summa/provista, have agreed to offer products that meet the alliance’s nutritional guidelines.
schools serve healthier meals at more affordable prices.
last week, the usda released the proposed rule for the nutrition standards in the national school lunch and school breakfast program.
schools can also save time and gain buying power by joining a group  purchasing organization (gpo).
about the alliance for a healthier generation the alliance for a healthier generation works to address one of the nation’s leading public health threats – childhood obesity.
signatories to these first of their kind agreements brokered by the alliance for a healthier generation, founded by the american heart association and the william j. clinton foundation, have agreed to develop, market and competitively price products that will lead to healthier school meal options; streamline the ordering process; and make identifying healthy options easier.
low-fat lunch entrées with reduced total fat, saturated fat and  sodium levels.
whole-grain products, such as bread, pasta and pizza crust.