one of these days i may feel comfortable enough to take a dslr into a restaurant)
continue reading » filed under: life |
lunch: avocado and tomato salad with  balsamic syrup dressing.
place pastry on top of dish and seal with your fingers.
press the pastry into the tin.
the menu is split into two different sections; small plates and main courses.
according to delia this can be done up to 3 days in advance but who knows they’ll want to make quiche 3 days in advance?
the ‘toast’ was a bread soup poured over.
so next week: less white  bread.
i now  enjoy judging establishments on how much they accommodate her) as babies  aren’t  so welcome in michelin starred restaurants.
it tasted surprisingly delicious
we were told to either order a small plate as a starter followed by a main course, or to order around six small plates between two of us.
i never make my own puff pastry because, really, who can be bothered when there’s jus rol?monday pie print filed under: recipes | 2 comments i’ve been working pretty hard recently to shift those last 10lbs of baby weight.
turn up the pan slightly and deglaze the pan with wine; leave to simmer  for 5 minutes.
alice 2 (i gave myself one extra as the quiche was so tasty).
pick up the pastry carefully, using the rolling pin to transport it if necessary, and place in your flan tin (mine is 25cm and leaves me some pastry left over).
my first attempt at shortcrust pastry failed.
the last time i saw him was on saturday kitchen and i get way over excited at any sniff of celebrity so i practically forced him into a double-cheek kiss.
roll out to a round shape with a rolling pin to a thickness of around 0.5cm.
i have no idea why this is as i followed the (rachael ray) recipe to the letter, and even started the day by driving out to john lewis to purchase some brand-new digital scales.
the night was totally made by our waiter who used to work at shoreditch house and was the one who looked after us at our wedding reception in 2009.
what would  stop me eating three chocolate hobnobs for breakfast other than having to share  that fact with the internet?
i blame  rachel ray again, along with the addition of a new hob with a hotter flame than  i’m used to.
but i recently made the discovery that 0% fat  greek yoghurt pretty much tastes the same as the fattening stuff.
i like to use a fork or a knife to break up the meat, but then i  get in there with my hands to smoosh it all together.
filed under: recipes | 10 comments review: maze thursday, june 2nd, 2011 (more poor iphone photography.
my fragile ego was rescued somewhat by the need to blind bake my pastry case.
it’s the least touristy place i’ve ever visited in greece; the onassis family own the next-door island and the summer season attracts wealthy greeks and italians rather than lager-lout brits.
gammon with  peas and parsley sauce and rosemary roasted new potatoes.
admittedly it’s not the best recipe for weightloss, but i’m persevering with a lot of powerwalking when i go shopping.
let’s ignore  the fact she’s still in her pyjamas at midday.
mine and will’s  ironic catchphrase is kate moss’s “nothing taste as skinny feels ” because really, it’s crap.
the components are quite simply: pastry (shortcrust or puff, homemade or shop-bought), leftover roast meat (this week i used lamb), onions, 2 x veg, and gravy.
obviously my ‘no refined carbs’ rule isn’t going as  well as it could, must try harder in that respect, and i’m amazed that  i’ve had two portions of french fries (erm, actually four if you count  that burger king and then the cheeseburger i had at the hoxton on the night of  cybermummy) in a week!
as we’ve been friends for so long i’ve stopped banging on about the whole “but don’t you miss bacon?!”
these lamb koftes are super easy to make, healthy and really delicious.
make up the wraps with the sausages, yoghurt mixture and sliced red  onion.
easy lamb koftes with tzatziki serves 2 hungry people 500g lamb mince handful fresh mint, finely chopped handful fresh parsley, finely chopped teaspoon cinnamon teaspoon cumin half a red onion, finely diced salt and pepper 3 tbsp 0% fat greek yoghurt 1/4 of a cucumber, finely sliced handful fresh mint, finely chopped salt and pepper wraps, to serve 1.
but i recently made the discovery that 0% fat greek yoghurt pretty much tastes the same as the fattening stuff.
i  don’t like the preciseness of measurements of the ingredients or the fact  you can’t really taste your cooking half way through.
the ambiance and social aspect of the place was welcoming and warm, i love the fact that the whole menu is available at the bar and you are welcome to drop in for not just a meal but drink, coffee (did i mention?
i have tried repeating it to myself  over a dish of deep-fried calamari but it doesn’t work.
so in conclusion, i would and will definitely return.
pbj represents peanut butter and jelly; i recall the dish being different at maze as it was more sandwiched together than the separate ingredients on this plate, but it was delicious all the same.
cottage  cheese with pineapple, cheddar biscuits, cherry tomatoes.
+1 diet point for me.
the first installment is a little odd as there were two days of stomach bug when i didn’t eat or drink anything but water (and briefly lost 4lbs), the day of cybermummy when i was so busy looking for food i devoured it as soon as i found it, and then there is the small matter of that burger king
i never burn the onions so was obviously pretty distraught.
the english breakfast plate was interesting.
posh eating out is really important to us because it’s our couple  time (apart from the frequent occasions elfie comes with us and
i love the modern tapas way of eating so we went with the small plates, and you can blame the sommelier for the fact i can’t recall how much they cost as she perfectly matched wines to each plate.
i will note here that it’s a good thing my wine and pimms consumption  has not been photographed.
by-hand method and will use 220g of flour to 110g of fat (55g butter/55g beef dripping…
i eat a lot of salad though, huh?
stifados – fried  aubergine – fish – salads – tzatziki.
filed under: life | 4 comments (photography courtesy of low light and the iphone)
easy lamb koftes with tzatziki serves 2 hungry people handful fresh  mint, finely chopped handful fresh parsley, finely chopped teaspoon  cinnamon half a red onion, finely diced salt and  pepper 3 tbsp 0% fat greek yoghurt 1/4 of a cucumber, finely sliced handful fresh mint, finely chopped salt and pepper wraps, to serve 1.
i haven’t  missed as many breakfasts as it looks here: a lot of  the time i tend to grab a banana whilst elfie’s eating her toast or  weetabix.
slice the red onion and put to one side.
they are both vegetarians*.
i used to lick my  brother’s plate because it would make him totally freak out.
nobody’s internet connection is tough enough for all the photos that would necessitate.
start by combining all the pastry ingredients in a bowl; mix through with a knife, cutting and turning to make it cling together.
mr a is famously gordon ramsay’s ex-executive chef at maze (love maze), and pollen street social is his first london-based restaurant.
steak with homemade french fries, salad and roast tomatoes and onions) (l-r: lunch: (pub) starter – smoked salmon and prawn parcel (1970s style!), main – beer battered fish and chips.
our wine rack couldn’t hold three cases of wine, so we had to get a new one.
the in-laws lived on the  beautiful island ofmeganissi for a long time and my father-in-law is buried  there so we will continue to return for holidays as often as possible.
the highlight of the plates for me was the pork belly.
even elfie got involved (organix cheesy wheat puffs).
(l-r: lunch: (pub) starter – smoked salmon and prawn parcel  (1970s style!), main – beer battered fish and chips.
pastrami and chutney salad with gherkins) (l-r: breakfast: weetabix.
filed under: recipes | 10 comments (more poor iphone photography.
one of the best things about meganissi is the food.
the dough should be firm and pliable but not sticky.
you get the picture:  we have a lot of wine right now.
jason atherton coming over to check on us at the end of the meal was a lovely touch.
i blame rachel ray again, along with the addition of a new hob with a hotter flame than i’m used to.
during pregnancy i put on three and a half stone.
i forgot to photograph.
let’s ignore the fact she’s still in her pyjamas at midday.
whilst the dough is resting you can make the filling.
but these sorts of soulmate friends are bigger than supremely corked wine: they’re for life.
confusing to my poor boozed-up squinty eyes, it arrived looking like a plate of risotto.
fry off in oil on a medium  heat and add your veg and herbs (if you’re using any frozen veg it should  be added at the end).
the first installment is a little odd as there were two days of stomach bug  when i didn’t eat or drink anything but water (and briefly lost 4lbs),  the day of cybermummy when i was so busy looking for food i devoured it as soon  as i found it, and then there is the small matter of that burger king
tuna and sweetcorn quiche (thanks to delia for the great pastry recipe.
what would stop me eating three chocolate hobnobs for breakfast other than having to share that fact with the internet?
don’t tell anyone  – i like to think it’s our secret.
stifados – fried aubergine – fish – salads – tzatziki.
i may have got a bit in his face by shouting “remember us?!”
which is a shame, because i bloody love sandwiches, toast,  pasta, cakes… i came up with some rules that i wanted to adhere to in order to become  healthier, and hopefully slightly smaller-of-tum: - drink lots of water - don’t eat white  bread, pizza or pasta (or refined carbs in general)
instructions start out by preparing your pastry and bringing it to room temperature.
lunch: cottage cheese with pineapple, cheddar biscuits, cherry tomatoes.
add the chicken stock bit by bit, stirring all the time.
we get together with some very lovely friends of ours every month or so to eat, drink and laugh.
although, don’t you miss bacon?mtt: mushroom, pea and tarragon pot pies filed under: recipes | 6 comments my husband is a bit of a traditionalist – we both are.
prick a couple of  times with a fork and brush over a light egg wash.
the way to his heart may be his stomach but the way to my heart is most definitely through my snoozes.
recipe below; i guess you could call it a cheat’s  guide to feeling like a baker?
which is a shame, because i bloody love sandwiches, toast, pasta, cakes… i came up with some rules that i wanted to adhere to in order to become healthier, and hopefully slightly smaller-of-tum: - drink lots of water - eat lots of salad - don’t eat white bread, pizza or pasta (or refined carbs in general)
roll out pastry to about half a centimetre thick.
the in-laws lived on the beautiful island ofmeganissi for a long time and my father-in-law is buried there so we will continue to return for holidays as often as possible.
as i’m still trying to lose the last couple of pounds of baby weight i try not to indulge too much
after my pastry fiasco i didn’t trust that damned rachel ray and her quiche recipe.
place a layer of baking paper over the pastry, and add ceramic baking beans.
i’m not sure there is more of a decadent starter than steamed  asparagus and homemade hollandaise (recipe will follow when i drag my face from  the mixing bowl.
i have tried repeating it to myself over a dish of deep-fried calamari but it doesn’t work.
lunch: tomato and onion omelette, avocado salad.
but she ate every last mouthful.
so i offered it up to elfie.
lunch: (cafe rouge) starter –  chicken liver pate, main – spicy sausage baguette with french fries)
i’ve started keeping a weekly visual food diary which has really  helped me stop and think about what i eat on a day-to-day basis.
lunch: avocado and tomato salad with balsamic syrup dressing.
mine and will’s ironic catchphrase is kate moss’s “nothing taste as skinny feels ” because really, it’s crap.
crack the eggs into a large bowl, season, then add the milk and cream.
he must be smart because he hired my brother (who has a repultation for getting me hammered) to be in charge of the bar.
smoked salmon  and avocado salad with greek yoghurt.
basically it was an amazing weekend but hangovers continue to increase in  their brutality.
no thanks to rachael ray for ruining my day)
the drinking area is pretty lovely.
so now it’s going on everything; breakfast, posh prawn cocktail, pudding, and my personal favourite: tzatziki.
everyone loves a quiche.
monday pies are a harold family institution, something his mum used to cook often whilst he was growing up.
heat half a tbsp in a pan on a medium heat and cook the lamb sausages until browned all over, about 5 minutes on each side.
along with the recent poor press surrounding ramsay and co i wondered if times had changed since our last visit in 2008.
rupert and su were supposed to come and visit this friday but didn’t due to poor elfie getting rushed into hospital (more on that soon)
lunch: tomato and onion omelette, avocado  salad.
smoked salmon and avocado salad with greek yoghurt.
my mummy jelly  belly is still well and truly in residence and i’ve come to the  conclusion that i am slightly wheat intolerant; there ain’t nothing like  my post-pizza bloat.
this reason for this week’s monday pie was simple: will let me have three lie-ins over the weekend.
it’s never agreed with me, even moreso since the dawn of the twee cupcake and macaroon.
in a smaller bowl mix together the remaining mint, cucumber, seasoning and yoghurt.
no comments mtt: tuna and sweetcorn quiche monday, may 16th, 2011
make up the wraps with the sausages, yoghurt mixture and sliced red onion.
pour the egg and milk mixture over.
having recently visited jason atherton’s pollen street social we were keen to return to maze, where he was previously executive head chef.
cook at 180 degrees until golden brown on top – around 25 minutes.
cook for a further 25-30 minutes, or until the top of the quiche is golden brown.
i don’t like the preciseness of measurements of the ingredients or the fact you can’t really taste your cooking half way through.
it was bad  – flaky and dry and no amount of trying to fix it with water worked.
it was a bit sloppy, a little weird, but good.
i chucked this lot and googled for a fail-proof delia recipe.
i knew i wanted tuna and sweetcorn (my aunt makes the most divine tuna and sweetcorn quiche), i threw in some dill i had in the fridge and used a mixture of egg and cream to get a richer finish than milk may have had.
filed under: life | 9 comments filed under:
there have also been occasions when i’ve tucked into my  dinner, completely forgetting to take a picture, so all you get are my  leftovers.
my mum used to make  lovely victoria sponges for my brother and i (and she bought even better  chocolate cakes from the deli in the next town); these cakes are an aspect of  my childhood i will always remember really happily.
i love to cook and do it often, but baking… not so much.
the pastry now needs to rest in the fridge for a minimum of 30 minutes – something to do with gluten activation.
i guess just how it’s supposed to be because it tasted lovely.
will likes roast dinners in the winter, watching rugby on a sunday, bringing home the bacon and monday pies.
as soon as we saw him.
i like to use a fork or a knife to break up the meat, but then i get in there with my hands to smoosh it all together.
i have never blind baked anything in my whole life before, and it made me feel really quite special.
i was so busy fannying around with my failed pastry that i also burned the onions.
no comments happy birthday, will! saturday, may 21st, 2011 my husband’s birthday last weekend was everything a good birthday  should be: friends, a full wine rack, food, babies, go karting and eurovision.
my fragile ego was rescued somewhat by the need to blind bake my pastry  case.
if you hadn’t already guessed, i like eating.
i forgot  to photograph.
so for my first attempt at baking in my new kitchen i chose a recipe that felt somewhat like a happy medium: a quiche.
insane) or a dessert.
pastry 8oz plain flour 4oz fat at room temperature (i used butter) 1tbsp water, plus more as needed filling 1 small tin tuna 1 small tin sweetcorn handful of dill 1 white onion 4 eggs, beaten 150ml double cream 50ml milk salt and pepper set the oven to 180 degrees c 1.
but i’m persevering with a lot of powerwalking when i go shopping.
our wine  rack couldn’t hold three cases of wine, so we had to get a new one.
when the dough has rested for at least 30 minutes remove it from the fridge and place on a lightly dusted surface.
probably because i spent a whole £5 on my new ceramic baking beans.
snack: elfie’s leftovers.
there’s such a buzz about this place you’d probably end up eating in the toilet which would be no hardship as they’re a+!
we became friends about the same time will
we ended the evening with some insanely good coffee.
but there was more cheffy-deconstruction business going on here; the squid acted as the risotto paired with squid juice and cauliflower.
i don’t like to exercise, i like deep fried stuff
i have no idea why this is as  i followed the (rachael ray) recipe to the letter, and even started the day by  driving out to john lewis to purchase some brand-new digital scales.
it was bad – flaky and dry and no amount of trying to fix it with water worked.
tip pie filling into  dish and scatter any frozen veg on top.
having recently visited jason atherton’s pollen street social we  were keen to return to maze, where he was previously executive head chef.
so now  it’s going on everything; breakfast, posh prawn cocktail, pudding, and my  personal favourite: tzatziki.
my mummy jelly belly is still well and truly in residence and i’ve come to the conclusion that i am slightly wheat intolerant; there ain’t nothing like my post-pizza bloat.
no thanks to rachael ray  for ruining my day)
- stay away from deep  fried stuff, cheese (esp.
so for my first attempt at baking in my new kitchen i chose a recipe that  felt somewhat like a happy medium: a quiche.
one of these days i may feel comfortable  enough to take a dslr into a restaurant)
uncategorized | comments off enter your email address: delivered by feedburner powered by twitter tools powered by wordpress | design by yellow & savvy design | all words and photography are © alice harold
rupert’s a fan of my hollandaise.
1.2.4 filed under: recipes | 2 comments the more than toast diet #1 sunday, july 3rd, 2011 i’ve been working pretty hard recently to shift those last 10lbs of  baby weight.
and i drink too much wine.
these friends we have (hi, rupert and su!) are perfect in every way but one.
filed under: life | 15 comments greece is very special to our little family.
i haven’t missed as many breakfasts as it looks here: a lot of the time i tend to grab a banana whilst elfie’s eating her toast or weetabix.
admittedly it’s not the best recipe for weightloss,
and i became a couple (so i guess about 8 years ago) and love them to pieces.
it’s like a very british dolly parton song.
i always come home  about 2 stone heavier with a renewed enthusiasm for feta, olives and greek  yoghurt.
the gorgeous sea bass main course was cooked by the birthday boy as his wife was drunk and too absorbed in eurovision to spend 30 minutes in the kitchen.
if you wanted to make the quiche super rich you can substitute the milk for more cream.
i knew i wanted tuna and sweetcorn (my aunt makes the most  divine tuna and sweetcorn quiche), i threw in some dill i had in the fridge and  used a mixture of egg and cream to get a richer finish than milk may have had.
roast sweet potatoes, mushrooms and salad.
use your fingertips to judge if you will need to add any extra to the water.
so when i’m trying to get in the good books or if i’ve been in the dog house i will make my hardworkin’ man a weekend roast followed by a monday pie.
- stay away from deep fried stuff, cheese (esp.
all the flour and fat should be incorporated.
deep fried cheese) and chocolate hobnobs - eat three meals a day - allow myself the odd treat and make sure i still enjoy my meals (do not want to lose the will to eat)
i will note here that it’s a good thing my wine and pimms consumption has not been photographed.
my mood was saved by the next batch of pastry which turned out beautiful.
crumble in the stock cube and add the bisto.
i guess just how it’s supposed to be because it  tasted lovely.
start by frying off a finely chopped onion (until translucent, rather than black as above), which will take 8 to 10 minutes.
filed under: recipes | 4 comments babies, friends, pimms, laughs, family, food and ikea… (for those interested, our epic sofa journey has ended with the purchase of thekarlstad plus footstool.
i  chucked this lot and googled for a fail-proof delia recipe.
there’s a massive block of ice that is awesomely hand carved for the drinks (i’m easily pleased) and a gin-based menu of unusual cocktails, though they also take requests for all the classics.
heat half a tbsp in a pan on a medium heat and cook the lamb sausages  until browned all over, about 5 minutes on each side.
this made it look not so delicious.
there is nothing like a massive load of cheese for breakfast to get over a  hangover.
obviously my ‘no refined carbs’ rule isn’t going as well as it could, must try harder in that respect, and i’m amazed that i’ve had two portions of french fries (erm, actually four if you count that burger king and then the cheeseburger i had at the hoxton on the night of cybermummy) in a week!
then there were spaces in the rack so we had to buy more wine.
you get the picture: we have a lot of wine right now.
i had something elderflower-based and refreshing in my chilled martini glass until it was time to go through to the dining room.
lamb, sweet potato, broad beans and peas, caramalized shallots.
on the whole, i’d say diet: 1, alice: 0.
stir until a gravy  consistency is reached.
filed under: life | 15 comments mtt: easy lamb koftes with tzatziki friday, june 10th, 2011 greece is very special to our little family.
the brilliance of monday pie is that it’s totally cobbled together yet tastes amazing, for me it’s the best pie on earth.
three of them have been banished but the last 7lbs are proving to be pretty stubborn.
lunch: (cafe rouge) starter – chicken liver pate, main – spicy sausage baguette with french fries)
add meat and cook through.
breakfast: toast and butter.
alice 2 (i gave myself one extra as the  quiche was so tasty).
a deconstructed breakfast soup.
i drink way too much to ever be a good restaurant critic.
i’m not sure there is more of a decadent starter than steamed asparagus and homemade hollandaise (recipe will follow when i drag my face from the mixing bowl.
so the final score was baking 2 :
the last dish i tried was the cauliflower and squid risotto.
there is nothing like a massive load of cheese for breakfast to get over a hangover.
now i’m moving on to persuading my husband the john lewismr bright chair is essential)
three of them have been  banished but the last 7lbs are proving to be pretty stubborn.
(this does not prove anything: this girl will eat anything).
scatter finely chopped dill over the filling.
then  there were spaces in the rack so we had to buy more wine.
i hope your onion was chopped finer than mine.
now i live in the home counties and i’m a part-time stay-at-home-mum,  i’ve been thinking i should really get into baking.
no comments now i live in the home counties and i’m a part-time stay-at-home-mum, i’ve been thinking i should really get into baking.
the gorgeous sea bass main course was cooked by the birthday boy as his  wife was drunk and too absorbed in eurovision to spend 30 minutes in the  kitchen.
slice the onion in half and then lengthways.
+1 diet point for  me.
last week i was lucky enough to preview jason atherton’s new venture, pollen street social.
don’t tell anyone – i like to think it’s our secret.
breakfast: toast and jam.
and i  drink too much wine.
posh eating out is really important to us because it’s our couple time (apart from the frequent occasions elfie comes with us and i now enjoy judging establishments on how much they accommodate her) as babies aren’t so welcome in michelin starred restaurants.
plus, when cooked, they look a little bit like poo.
probably because i spent a whole £5 on my new  ceramic baking beans.
and the hug was probably inappropriate.
nobody’s internet connection is tough enough  for all the photos that would necessitate.
recipe below; i guess you could call it a cheat’s guide to feeling like a baker?
i’ve started keeping a weekly visual food diary which has really helped me stop and think about what i eat on a day-to-day basis.
there have also been occasions when i’ve tucked into my dinner, completely forgetting to take a picture, so all you get are my leftovers.
that did not feel good the next day).
use your hands to make small sausages, about half the size of  regular sausages.
use your hands to make small sausages, about half the size of regular sausages.
remove the pastry from the oven and tip the beans into a bowl.
i have never blind baked anything in my whole life before, and it made me  feel really quite special.
there’s nothing better than our raucous night full of wine, food, conversation and guitar hero (apart from that time we drank the 1982 bottle of red that was older than me.
if i’m making my own shortcrust pastry i will faithfully stick todelia’s
it’s the least touristy place i’ve ever visited in greece; the  onassis family own the next-door island and the summer season attracts wealthy  greeks and italians rather than lager-lout brits.
for pudding we ordered the rhubarb and ginger cheesecake – gorgeous pieces of crystallised ginger made the dish- and the ‘pbj’ which was an old favourite from ye olde maze days.
basically it was an amazing weekend but hangovers continue to increase in their brutality.
i’d been told that it was a must-try, and came as an egg surrounded by chopped tomatoes and gorgeous crispy alsace bacon.
no comments my husband’s birthday last weekend was everything a good birthday should be: friends, a full wine rack, food, babies, go karting and eurovision.
the fois gras to me didn’t taste as gorgeously creamy as others i’ve tasted from borough market which was a let-down.
however, i was half cut by this point so it could well have been the booze coupled with my lacklustre knowledge on fois gras that was a fail here rather than the food.
steak with  homemade french fries, salad and roast tomatoes and onions)
the meat fell apart and i’m not ashamed to tell you my mouth is watering right now like nobody’s business.
i was so busy fannying around with my failed pastry that i also burned the  onions.
i used to lick my brother’s plate because it would make him totally freak out.
therefore i give you my mushroom, pea and tarragon pie; good enough to eat even if you’re a carnivore and easy enough to add meat to if you can’t face a meatfree meal.
after my pastry fiasco i didn’t trust that damned rachel ray and her  quiche recipe.
mix together the mince, herbs, spices, onion and seasoning in a large  mixing bowl.
thing, especially since they have started eating fish, and i now enjoy the challenge of meat-free cooking for them.
i don’t like to use quorn or other equivalents so try and get my inspiration elsewhere.
a birthday treat to himself was a membership to the wine society.
it came with a fondant something (oops), a bit of cheek, fermented apple, burnt onion mayonnaise and the most amazing piece of fluffed, crispy crackling.
lamb, sweet potato, broad beans and peas, caramalized  shallots.
deep fried cheese) and chocolate hobnobs - eat  three meals a day - allow myself the odd treat and make sure i still enjoy  my meals (do not want to lose the will to eat)
ah like ma squid deep fried.
as i’m still trying to lose the last couple of pounds of baby weight  i try not to indulge too much
along  with the recent poor press surrounding ramsay and co i wondered if times had  changed since our last visit in 2008.
my mum used to make lovely victoria sponges for my brother and i (and she bought even better chocolate cakes from the deli in the next town); these cakes are an aspect of my childhood i will always remember really happily.
pastry 4oz fat at room temperature (i used butter) 1tbsp  water, plus more as needed filling
mix together the mince, herbs, spices, onion and seasoning in a large mixing bowl.
i always come home about 2 stone heavier with a renewed enthusiasm for feta, olives and greek yoghurt.
i know it’s slightly yawnsville and there’s probably another part of the pig we should raving about by now but pork belly is my all-time favourite cut of meat.
in a smaller bowl mix together the remaining mint, cucumber, seasoning  and yoghurt.
so next week: less white bread.
gammon with peas and parsley sauce and rosemary roasted new potatoes.
this one ranked in the top 3 pork bellies ever (also in top 3 pork bellies; maze, me).
it’s never  agreed with me, even moreso since the dawn of the twee cupcake and macaroon.
i vowed never to wash my face again (i have) and he seemed like a genuinely nice guy.
but then i forgot about my spatula on the frying pan.
this is a joke, i don’t have anything against vegetarians.
break up the tuna and sprinkle over the bottom of the case, and do the same with the onion and sweetcorn.
it was too much for me, the texture of it seemed odd for my provincial tastebuds.
this made it  look not so delicious.
so i found myself with some left over vegetarian ingredients to cook with this week.