if meat is a must, substitute for healthier alternatives, such as chicken or shrimp.
(and other tips to make family pizza night  healthy) by jessica reinhart
while it's a far cry  from a healthy food choice, there are ways to make this american staple  healthier.
go heavy on the veggies.
contact redplum's editor  with feedback and suggestions for savings tips and articles to help you live  better, for less!"
can all  that crust, cheese and pepperoni be good for my family?
we want to hear them.
we've put together some quick ordering tips that will satisfy your  families' cravings and keep them on a healthy track.
just say no to extra sauce!
we've put together some quick ordering tips that will satisfy your families' cravings and keep them on a healthy track.
although tomato sauce is high in lycopene, a powerful antioxidant, many pizza  restaurants include high fructose corn syrup (hfcs) amongst their sauces'  secret ingredients.
we  love sun-dried tomatoes, onions, broccoli, spinach, olives, spinach, peppers,  mushrooms and artichoke hearts.
meats like pepperoni, bacon, meatballs and sausage can add anywhere from 10 to 40 calories and 1.5 to 3.5 grams of fat per slice.
contact redplum's editor with feedback and suggestions for savings tips and articles to help you live better, for less!"
ordering heart healthy whole wheat crust  instead of regular crust will boost your fiber intake by 50 percent.
meats like pepperoni, bacon, meatballs  and sausage can add anywhere from 10 to 40 calories and 1.5 to 3.5 grams of fat  per slice.
opt for thin crust pizza instead of regular and save a whopping 90 calories per slice!
although tomato sauce is high in lycopene, a powerful antioxidant, many pizza restaurants include high fructose corn syrup (hfcs) amongst their sauces' secret ingredients.
we love sun-dried tomatoes, onions, broccoli, spinach, olives, spinach, peppers, mushrooms and artichoke hearts.
opt for thin crust pizza instead of regular and  save a whopping 90 calories per slice!
can all that crust, cheese and pepperoni be good for my family?
while it's a far cry from a healthy food choice, there are ways to make this american staple healthier.
veggies are not only nutritious,  but also low in calories, which gives you the green light to pile them on.
ordering heart healthy whole wheat crust instead of regular crust will boost your fiber intake by 50 percent.
it may seem like a no-brainer, but ordering a healthful garden salad to accompany a less than healthy pizza will ensure you get your daily dose of greens and help you feel fuller faster – thus limiting the urge to overindulge on pie.
it may seem like a no-brainer, but  ordering a healthful garden salad to accompany a less than healthy pizza will  ensure you get your daily dose of greens and help you feel fuller faster  – thus limiting the urge to overindulge on pie.
free donuts: at krispy kreme and dunkin donuts see all  archived 'dining out' articles article id: 2869
by jessica reinhart so you're geared up for your weekly family pizza night, money saving coupon in hand, and stop to wonder – should we really be ordering pizza?
veggies are not only nutritious, but also low in calories, which gives you the green light to pile them on.
(how to reuse your pumpkin for  a day's worth of meals) free strawberry pancake puppies sundae from denny’s free ice cream, today only!
rate this article past articles 5 holiday dining shortcuts: get dinner to the table with less stress don't put a candle in your jack-o-lantern!
check your favorite haunt's web site for a list of  ingredients to see if it's included – if the answer's yes, ask for light  sauce, or opt for a white pizza instead.
if meat is a must, substitute for healthier alternatives, such as  chicken or shrimp.
check your favorite haunt's web site for a list of ingredients to see if it's included – if the answer's yes, ask for light sauce, or opt for a white pizza instead.
"just say no!"to extra sauce.
so you're geared up for your weekly family pizza night, money saving coupon  in hand, and stop to wonder – should we really be ordering pizza?