brands launch annual world hunger relief september 24, 2010 yum!
eagle boys pizza managing director todd clayton said... ...
read more »fast food chains work with uk authorities to improve health of their food may 13, 2009 some of the most well-known restaurant chains on the uk high street have agreed to work with the food standards agency (fsa) to put healthy eating firmly on the menu for their customers.
brands have jumped by 15 per cent in the third quarter  despite headwinds created by a weak us dollar.
brands launch annual world hunger relief september 24,  2010 yum!
“we are proud of our name and heritage and will continue to be... ...
the owner of the taco bell, kfc  and pizza hut brands saw sales remain relatively flat, however, despite a  strong performance in china.
the social networking  dilemma companies are increasingly unsure of how to tackle the proliferation of  online social networking sites, which have the potential to quickly tarnish a  brand image built on decades of hard work.
restaurants international... ...
the social networking dilemma companies are increasingly unsure of how to tackle the proliferation of online social networking sites, which have the potential to quickly tarnish a brand image built on decades of hard work.
pizzaexpress, pizza hut, the restaurant  group, tragus and domino’s have all agreed to provide commitments, which  will focus on the range of healthier options available to their customers.
every  time you place an order at www.pizzahut.com.au you receive two virtual slices  – one for you and one for a friend on facebook.
“we are proud of  our name and heritage and will continue to be... ...read more » fast food chains work with uk authorities to improve health of  their food may 13, 2009 some of the most well-known restaurant chains on the uk high street have  agreed to work with the food standards agency (fsa) to put healthy eating  firmly on the menu for their customers.
read more » eagle boys eyes the top spot july 6, 2010 eagle boys today confirmed expansion plans, aiming to overtake  domino’s pizza as australia’s largest pizza maker.
eagle boys was selected from 186 entries from a range of australian  private and public companies and organisations.
brands announced today the launch of world hunger relief featuring global spokesperson and new world food programme (wfp) ambassador aganst hunger, christina aguilera.
the kilojoule... ...read more » yum!
read more »nsw puts kilojoules on the menu november 9, 2010 new south wales premier kristina kenneally yesterday announced that menus for fast-food outlets across nsw will be required to display kilojoule information on their printed and menu boards, as of february 1st 2011.
read  more » new qsr forum tackling health and nutrition august 18, 2010 australia’s largest manufacturing sector – food and grocery  –
read more »kfc owner sees profits soar october 7, 2009 profits at yum!
despite reports of a sluggish retail market, eagle boys is relying on its recorded sales increase of 15.4% in the last 12 months as evidence to justify an aggressive store opening strategy.
the owner of the taco bell, kfc and pizza hut brands saw sales remain relatively flat, however, despite a strong performance in china.
“i’m pleased to report we are raising our full year 2009 eps growth forecast to 12% based on our strong year-to-date profit performance,” david novak, chairman and ceo of yum!, said.
the more your order, the more virtual slices you can... ...
newsfeed pizza hut delivers  world’s first edible facebook gift december 3, 2010 social networking is exploding at a rapid rate and now in a world first,  pizza hut australia is rewarding customers and their friends on facebook with  free pizza in the new pizza hut ‘feed a friend’ campaign.
the australian business awards  is a national awards program honouring organisations that demonstrate the core  values of business excellence, product excellence,... ...
businesses such as major fast food, bakery, coffee and doughnut chains will now be required to ‘clearly and legibly’ display the kilojoule content on their menu board, as well as prominently featuring the average adult daily energy intake of 8700 kilojoules.
according to the united nations, there are approximately 1 billion people around the world who are hungry today.
although the commitments are... ...
eagle boys pizza managing director todd clayton said... ...
the spread of word of mouth by  employees and customers is consequently... ...
the more  your order, the more virtual slices you can... ...read more » nsw puts kilojoules on the menu november 9, 2010 new south wales
the companies together operate more than 2,000 restaurants and takeaway outlets across the uk.
eagle boys was selected from 186 entries from a range of australian private and public companies and organisations.
read more » next page »
restaurants international... ...read more » pizza hut dismisses rumour of name change june 23, 2009 pizza hut, one of the world’s largest pizza chains, has rejected  suggestions that they were contemplating a name change to “the  hut”.
officially announced during the nsw food  forum in sydney today, the formal partnership between the australian food and  grocery council (afgc) and the qsr industry involves the establishment of a qsr  forum of afgc.
click here australian food news ·copyright © 2006
although the commitments are... ...read more » pizza hut hoping for twitter success april 24, 2009 twitter, the micro-blogging platform that challenges users to think in 140  characters or less, is taking the world by storm, and businesses are searching  for ways to capitalise on its flourishing popularity.
every time you place an order at www.pizzahut.com.au you receive two virtual slices – one for you and one for a friend on facebook.
pizzaexpress, pizza hut, the restaurant group, tragus and domino’s have all agreed to provide commitments, which will focus on the range of healthier options available to their customers.
premier kristina kenneally yesterday announced that menus  for fast-food outlets across nsw will be required to display kilojoule  information on their printed and menu boards, as of february 1st 2011.
the  companies together operate more than 2,000 restaurants and takeaway outlets  across the uk.
despite reports  of a sluggish retail market, eagle boys is relying on its recorded sales  increase of 15.4% in the last 12 months as evidence to justify an aggressive  store opening strategy.
“pizza hut is not changing its name,” brian niccol, cmo of pizza hut, advised.
officially announced during the nsw food forum in sydney today, the formal partnership between the australian food and grocery council (afgc) and the qsr industry involves the establishment of a qsr forum of afgc.
read more »pizza hut dismisses rumour of name change june 23, 2009 pizza hut, one of the world’s largest pizza chains, has rejected suggestions that they were contemplating a name change to “the hut”.
one of the main aims of the... ...read more » eagle boys pizza awarded for retail excellence july 26, 2010 australia’s second largest pizza maker eagle boys pizza has been  named joint winner of the 2010 australian business award for retail excellence  in recognition of its recent growth, achievements and contribution to the  industry.
read more »eagle boys eyes the top spot july 6, 2010 eagle boys today confirmed expansion plans, aiming to overtake domino’s pizza as australia’s largest pizza maker.
the company plans to open 46 new stores in 2010-11 – almost one a week – with a focus on new markets sydney and adelaide.
brands have jumped by 15 per cent in the third quarter despite headwinds created by a weak us dollar.
the spread of word of mouth by employees and customers is consequently... ...
read  more » kfc owner sees profits soar october 7, 2009 profits at yum!
the company did introduce a brief name change in the us recently to  promote their new pasta range but beyond the “pasta hut” campaign  there appears no desire to alter the name.
has forged a landmark new alliance with the quick service restaurant  (qsr) industry to work together to address important health, nutrition and  chronic disease issues in australia.
the australian business awards is a national awards program honouring organisations that demonstrate the core values of business excellence, product excellence,... ...
the kilojoule... ...read more »yum!
social networking is exploding at a rapid rate and now in a world first, pizza hut australia is rewarding customers and their friends on facebook with free pizza in the new pizza hut ‘feed a friend’ campaign.
according to the united nations, there are  approximately 1 billion people around the world who are hungry today.
to get more “thought for food” join the discussion on the australian food news facebook page.
read more »new qsr forum tackling health and nutrition august 18, 2010 australia’s largest manufacturing sector – food and grocery – has forged a landmark new alliance with the quick service restaurant (qsr) industry to work together to address important health, nutrition and chronic disease issues in australia.
read more »pizza hut hoping for twitter success april 24, 2009 twitter, the micro-blogging platform that challenges users to think in 140 characters or less, is taking the world by storm, and businesses are searching for ways to capitalise on its flourishing popularity.
the company plans to open 46 new stores in 2010-11  – almost one a week – with a focus on new markets sydney and  adelaide.
world hunger relief is the world’s largest private sector hunger relief effort, spanning 110 countries, 37,000 kfc, pizza hut, taco bell, long john silver’s and a&w all-american food restaurants and... ...
one of the main aims of the... ...read more »eagle boys pizza awarded for retail excellence july 26, 2010 australia’s second largest pizza maker eagle boys pizza has been named joint winner of the 2010 australian business award for retail excellence in recognition of its recent growth, achievements and contribution to the industry.
businesses such as major fast food, bakery, coffee and doughnut chains will now  be required to ‘clearly and legibly’ display the kilojoule content  on their menu board, as well as prominently featuring the average adult daily  energy intake of 8700 kilojoules.
brands announced today the launch of world hunger relief featuring  global spokesperson and new world food programme (wfp) ambassador aganst  hunger, christina aguilera.
read more » next page »search: subscribe for free daily food news headlines!
when you or your friends  collect 4 virtual slices, you get one free real pizza from pizza hut.
“i’m pleased to report we are raising  our full year 2009 eps growth forecast to 12% based on our strong year-to-date  profit performance,” david novak, chairman and ceo of yum!, said.
when you or your friends collect 4 virtual slices, you get one free real pizza from pizza hut.
world  hunger relief is the world’s largest private sector hunger relief effort,  spanning 110 countries, 37,000 kfc, pizza hut, taco bell, long john  silver’s and a&w all-american food restaurants and... ...
“pizza hut is not changing its  name,” brian niccol, cmo of pizza hut, advised.
the company did introduce a brief name change in the us recently to promote their new pasta range but beyond the “pasta hut” campaign there appears no desire to alter the name.