uncategorized 1 comment …there’s a phrase in the music business, “one trick  pony,” it’s a little like, “one and done” or “one  hit wonder.”
i absolutely love talking about  great food, so listen to my wisdom, love me, and return to your lives.
i am a bartender, server, and all around food enthusiast currently working for willow street pizza and campo di bocce of los gatos.
i wasn’t expecting much, and frankly, i knew it  was going to be bad.
willow street westgate…all things being equal, we’re not.
unless of course, we happen to produce a very clever video that is guaranteed to bring a smile to your face…but who couldn’t use a smile now and then?18 oct 2011 for years, the nfl and sports bars have grown increasingly further apart.
desserts, dressings, and cheeses, yes!
we didn’t want to  open in malls.
we like the feeling of being,  “that great little place around the corner.”
in willow glen, we are beginning our third decade of serving the  community.
in los gatos, we’re  continuing to help bring the downtown to life.
we have a new look, a new feel, and a new garage!
for us here at willow street, to count our blessings, we  need look no further than to you kind folks who have been there for a  generation.
you can also celebrate a touchdown (or curse a defense) with an  order of fresh manilla clams, some rigatoni with italian sausage or one of our  signature wood-fired pizzas.
it’s just like the glass you pour yourself at home.
and if you’ve ever eaten at a willow street with your new baby or your grandmother, you know that we’ve reached our goal.
now don’t get us wrong, we’ve certainly had our share of ups and downs, of broken water pipes and long hours.
fans were trapped in a  flavorless nether world of deep fried pickles, popcorn, cold hot dogs (now  there’s an oxymoron) and stale peanuts.
oh, so your resolution is to take the kids out once a week for a fun, tasty, affordable meal?
off …at the risk of sounding a bit like the late andy rooney, you ever  wonder why people make new year’s resolutions?
on behalf of us at willow street, we wish you a happy and prosperous new year.
from pasta dishes, to salads,  sandwiches, appetizers, succulent burgers, desserts, wine, local beers on tap,  and creative cocktails, our menu stretches across a wide variety of american  cuisine offerings.
san jose pizza | willow street pizza menu posts tagged ‘san jose pizza’ 01 mar 2012 when is enough… enough?
these people cook with love!
but, and you guessed  it, even that wasn’t enough.
and having just completed our annual sacred heart turkey drive (thanks to you, a terrific success), we are reminded of just how lucky we are.
for us at willow street, looking back requires a long look.
and that’s what it’s all about.
but that wasn’t enough.
of course wood fired pizza (it wouldn’t be willow street without our signature dish) but also burgers, fresh salads and specials that were, well, special.
then, have a couple of rich, decadent desserts…hey, there are some resolutions that you’re on your own.
bottom line, willow street westgate is a good deal more than just chicken wings and beer.
but, and you guessed it, even that wasn’t enough.
however, “tv dinner” does not even begin to describe the meal i ended up with.
although, our willow wings have taken a common dish to another level.
from all of us at willow street, happy thanksgiving.
i am a bartender, server, and all around food enthusiast currently working for  willow street pizza and campo di bocce of los gatos.
a few weeks ago, i went out to a late dinner with some friends to a sports bar that opened recently.
so that does it, problem solved, resolution kept.
for instance, let’s say that you’ve  resolved to eat healthier.
on behalf of us at willow street, we wish you a happy and prosperous new year.15 dec 2011 december already!
we slow roast our rotisserie chicken daily.
the fact is, just because you were kind enough to either “like” us, join our e-club or chose to follow us via your smart phone, doesn’t give us carte blanche to interrupt your day whenever the spirit moves us.
that’s right, good things come to those who wait.
what will the next 20 years bring?
and because willow street will settle for nothing less than providing the best possible meal without emptying your wallet.
so, here’s our pledge to you: if it’s not about saving you money, filling you in on community events or sharing something that is truly compelling…we’ll keep it to ourselves.
for most of us, they barely last until mid january let alone march.
your friendship and loyalty is appreciated  more than you can ever imagine.
for us here at willow street, to count our blessings, we need look no further than to you kind folks who have been there for a generation.
willow street wood fired pizza…enough said?
literally, almost everything…our pasta sauces, salad  dressings, soups (including stocks), fresh mozzarella cheese, pizza dough,  honey wheat bread, and desserts.
we have a specials  menu that changes monthly and includes dishes like our butternut squash ravioli  and the ever-popular summer steak and peach salad.
you’ve promise yourself that in 2012 date nights  will not only be weekly but enjoyable?
there is a reason grandma’s food is the best.
as business people, we love social media.
so as we say, “it was a very good year.”
which brings me to my point; the saying goes “home is where the heart is”, and to produce truly amazing food, you must to cook with heart.
in los gatos, we’re continuing to help bring the downtown to life.
like midas and mufflers, the yankees and baseball or willow street and pizza.
willow street wood fired pizza…enough said?30 jan 2012
we purchase our  ingredients from local vendors 9 months out of the year.
kids eat free, parents eat well and our kids menu doesn’t begin and end with the words, “hot dog and fries.”
all made fresh for you.
on the surface, the idea of posting a blog with a one-day shelf life seems a little silly.
uncategorized comments off
we never wanted to be corporate.
and would you like to know what we home-make?
fans were trapped in a flavorless nether world of deep fried pickles, popcorn, cold hot dogs (now there’s an oxymoron) and stale peanuts.
we didn’t want to open in malls.
of course wood fired pizza (it wouldn’t be willow  street without our signature dish) but also burgers, fresh salads and specials  that were, well, special.
thanks to the folks at  facebook and twitter, we can actually keep in touch with our customers 24/7.
in willow glen, we are beginning our third decade of serving the community.
uncategorized 1 comment …so here’s the deal.
now there’s one of those great questions to ponder at 4 am while you lie awake waiting for the alarm to go off.
so we committed to providing our guests with  as good a meal and as good an experience as they could have anywhere.
yet none of it would have happened without you.
speaking of new things in town…main street burgers has added a new dining room and has been voted “best burger” (again) by the los gatos weekly.
well actually, if the truth be known, pizza may have started us on our  journey
so, listen up cause i’m gonna ‘splain it to you…willow street does more than pizza.
there you have it…willow street, while it may say pizza on the door, it says flavor in the kitchen.
speaking of new things in town…main street burgers has added a new  dining room and has been voted “best burger” (again) by the los  gatos weekly.
go to willow street and order a gluten free pizza or pasta or any number of other great tasting healthy entries.
so, here’s our pledge to you: if it’s not about  saving you money, filling you in on community events or sharing something that  is truly compelling…we’ll keep it to ourselves.
which brings me to my point; the saying goes “home is where the heart  is”, and to produce truly amazing food, you must to cook with heart.
they don’t settle for cans, boxed potatoes, instant rice, or plastic wrapped insta-meals.
like a barbeque burger or a meatball sandwich.
it's easy to join our eclub, justclick here
actually, willow street is really good  at helping keep resolutions.
while our attention to quality and dedication  to service makes us good restaurants, our supporting of and giving back to  communities in which we work makes us good neighbors.
wouldn’t it be nice to have a little help this year?
we like the feeling of being, “that great little place around the corner.”
have cocktail, share a bruschetta, order one of your old favorites or try one of our ever changing specials.
for us at willow street, looking back requires a long  look.
14 nov 2011 just pizza?
a few weeks ago, i went out to a late dinner with some friends to a sports  bar that opened recently.
we even offer an extensive gluten-free menu  ranging from pizzas to pastas, beer, and molten chocolate cake.
on the surface, the idea of posting a blog with a one-day shelf life seems  a little silly.
it means that you’re basically known for just one  thing.
your friendship and loyalty is appreciated more than you can ever imagine.
and because  willow street will settle for nothing less than providing the best possible  meal without emptying your wallet.
uncategorized comments off december already!
we even offer an extensive gluten-free menu ranging from pizzas to pastas, beer, and molten chocolate cake.
yes, we said  it, gluten-free molten chocolate cake.
yes, it’s labor  intensive, and yes, our chefs arrive at our restaurants at ungodly hours to  prepare the day’s ingredients; but we do it all for you.
go to willow street and order a gluten free pizza or  pasta or any number of other great tasting healthy entries.
there you have  it…willow street, while it may say pizza on the door, it says flavor in  the kitchen.
so that does it, problem solved,  resolution kept.
stocks, soups,  sauces, oh my!
which is why we do our best to give back to the cities and  towns in which we work and many of our employees live.
from the dough we use for our bread and pizzas, to our fresh  mozzarella cheese, we do it all because we know that grandma’s way is  best, so we do it the way she did.
at willow street, we know that there is a fine line  between being informative and intrusive; a line that we do our best never to  cross.
and if you’ve  ever eaten at a willow street with your new baby or your grandmother, you know  that we’ve reached our goal.
for most of us, they  barely last until mid january let alone march.
you know, it’s a fact that the better you eat, the better the niners play…so far so good.
new year’s promises uncategorized comments
go ahead, say it with me.
yet none of  it would have happened without you.
but, that wasn’t enough.
yes, it’s labor intensive, and yes, our chefs arrive at our restaurants at ungodly hours to prepare the day’s ingredients; but we do it all for you.
unless of course,  we happen to produce a very clever video that is guaranteed to bring a smile to  your face…but who couldn’t use a smile now and then?
we wanted to serve a varied menu.
literally, almost everything…our pasta sauces, salad dressings, soups (including stocks), fresh mozzarella cheese, pizza dough, honey wheat bread, and desserts.
bottom line, willow street westgate is a good deal  more than just chicken wings and beer.
there is a reason that you  pay the money you do at fine-dining restaurants.
so tomorrow, between the gravy and the  first downs, take a moment to reflect on the good life…then loosen your  belt and take a nap.
yet, thanks to your  loyalty and friendship, it has been worth the effort.
well actually, if the truth be known, pizza may have started us on our journey but it’s what else we do that has kept us at the front of the pack for a generation.
from sunny days on the patio to  warm nights filled with jazz, willow street remains the talk of the town.
or coconut prawns with homemade  pineapple chili dipping sauce…and that’s just a few things off our  sports menu.
there is a reason that you pay the money you do at fine-dining restaurants.
and having just completed  our annual sacred heart turkey drive (thanks to you, a terrific success), we  are reminded of just how lucky we are.
we wanted to  serve a varied menu.
from all of us at willow street, happy thanksgiving.14 nov 2011 …there’s a phrase in the music business, “one trick pony,” it’s a little like, “one and done” or “one hit wonder.”
i have the absolute pleasure of working for a company in willow street  pizza that takes as much pride in homemade goodness as i do.
kids  eat free, parents eat well and our kids menu doesn’t begin and end with  the words, “hot dog and fries.”
although, our willow wings have taken a  common dish to another level.
which is why we do our best to give back to the cities and towns in which we work and many of our employees live.
willow  street does more than pizza.
for years, the nfl and sports bars have grown increasingly further apart.
a place that folks could count on for a comfortable evening out without breaking the bank.
01 nov 2011 social media: news or nuisance?
however, “tv dinner” does not even begin to  describe the meal i ended up with.
oh, so your resolution is to take the kids out once  a week for a fun, tasty, affordable meal?
but, that wasn’t  enough.
however, the whole concept of thanksgiving deserves a bit more  thought than, “when’s the turkey going to be ready?” and  “who’s playing in the late game?”
stocks, soups, sauces, oh my!
30 jan 2012 home is where the heart is uncategorized comments off
the town has certainly changed since we opened twenty years ago.
like midas and mufflers, the yankees and baseball or willow street and  pizza.
and would you like to know  what we home-make?
however, the whole concept of thanksgiving deserves a bit more thought than, “when’s the turkey going to be ready?”
we have a new look, a new  feel, and a new garage!
uncategorized 2 comments now there’s one of those great questions to ponder at 4 am while you  lie awake waiting for the alarm to go off.
from micro brews on tap to margheritas and all the yard lines in between, this is what a sports bar was meant to be.
at willow street westgate, when  we added 5 high definition tvs and the nfl ticket, we not only kept our same  terrific menu and full bar, we added dishes that go perfectly with football.
wouldn’t it be nice to have  a little help this year?
they have unbreakable standards and take pride in their  products.
it was a very good year
although that does explain all  those colored lights and fat men in red.
actually, willow street is really good at helping keep resolutions.
talk about direct marketing!
at willow street, we like being part of a neighborhood and part of a community.
go to willow street on tuesdays.
from the dough we use for our bread and pizzas, to our fresh mozzarella cheese, we do it all because we know that grandma’s way is best, so we do it the way she did.
oh, and did we mention we offer wine by the glass and a half?
can you think of one other restaurant that offers a glass and a half of  wine?…don’t worry, neither can we.
for instance, let’s say that you’ve resolved to eat healthier.
23 nov 2011 thanksgiving blessings uncategorized comments off
you can also celebrate a touchdown (or curse a defense) with an order of fresh manilla clams, some rigatoni with italian sausage or one of our signature wood-fired pizzas.
at willow street, we know that there is a fine line between being informative and intrusive; a line that we do our best never to cross.
i absolutely love talking about great food, so listen to my wisdom, love me, and return to your lives.
then, have a couple of rich, decadent  desserts…hey, there are some resolutions that you’re on your own.
at westgate, we’ve become the place to catch a game in a comfortable room  with terrific food.
twenty years ago, when we started willow street, we had some pretty basic criteria when it came to opening a restaurant.
all homemade and all prepared in-house.
at westgate, we’ve become the place to catch a game in a comfortable room with terrific food.
you know, it’s a fact that the better you eat, the  better the niners play…so far so good.
although that does explain all those colored lights and fat men in red.
i have the absolute pleasure of working for a company in willow street pizza that takes as much pride in homemade goodness as i do.
it’s not that tough.
and nowhere is that more evident than at willow street.
they don’t settle for cans, boxed potatoes, instant rice, or plastic  wrapped insta-meals.
and that’s what  it’s all about.
and “who’s playing in the late game?”
from pasta dishes, to salads, sandwiches, appetizers, succulent burgers, desserts, wine, local beers on tap, and creative cocktails, our menu stretches across a wide variety of american cuisine offerings.
i was educated at  the professional culinary institute and finished with a degree in culinary  arts, and over the past three years, i have contributed desserts, appetizer  plates, sauces, and cocktails to willow street.
it means that you’re basically known for just one thing.
at willow street westgate, when we added 5 high definition tvs and the nfl ticket, we not only kept our same terrific menu and full bar, we added dishes that go perfectly with football.
it is a day to count one’s blessings.
my name is anthony gomez, but you may refer to me as….the food czar!
oh, and did we mention we offer wine by  the glass and a half?
while our attention to quality and dedication to service makes us good restaurants, our supporting of and giving back to communities in which we work makes us good neighbors.
at willow street, we like being part of a neighborhood and part  of a community.
as we prepare to say goodbye to 2011 we wanted to take a moment to reflect on where we’ve been and where we’re going.
finally, you could enjoy the game and the meal.
from sunny days on the patio to warm nights filled with jazz, willow street remains the talk of the town.
it’s just one more thing to beat youself up about.
behind the scenes look at the food line in los gatos uvidimsia!
until next time, eat, live, and love well.
a place that folks could count on  for a comfortable evening out without breaking the bank.
have cocktail,  share a bruschetta, order one of your old favorites or try one of our ever  changing specials.
oct  2011 parody at last: willow street restaurant (saratoga ave.)
we wanted to appeal to families.
who would have thought?
so we committed to providing our guests with as good a meal and as good an experience as they could have anywhere.
the better the game was, the worst the food got.
twenty years ago, when we started  willow street, we had some pretty basic criteria when it came to opening a  restaurant.
on behalf our all of us at willow street and main street,  we wish you a prosperous and happy new year.
of course, as private citizens, we’re frankly not sure if 24/7 isn’t a little over the top.
what we  do know is that when it comes to creative, tasty, cutting edge dishes, folks in  the know will still be coming to willow street.
now don’t get us wrong, we’ve certainly had our share  of ups and downs, of broken water pipes and long hours.
all homemade and all  prepared in-house.
thanks to the folks at facebook and twitter, we can actually keep in touch with our customers 24/7.
willow  street westgate…all things being equal, we’re not.
you’ve promise yourself that in 2012 date nights will not only be weekly but enjoyable?
i could actually taste the plastic that my dish had been wrapped in!
and  nowhere is that more evident than at willow street.
the food czar …at the risk of sounding a bit like the late andy rooney, you ever wonder why people make new year’s resolutions?
the fact is, just because you were kind enough to either  “like” us, join our e-club or chose to follow us via your smart  phone, doesn’t give us carte blanche to interrupt your day whenever the  spirit moves us.
from micro brews on tap to margheritas and all  the yard lines in between, this is what a sports bar was meant to be.
i was educated at the professional culinary institute and finished with a degree in culinary arts, and over the past three years, i have contributed desserts, appetizer plates, sauces, and cocktails to willow street.
it’s  just one more thing to beat youself up about.
they have unbreakable standards and take pride in their products.
we purchase our ingredients from local vendors 9 months out of the year.
can you think of one other restaurant that offers a glass and a half of wine?…don’t worry, neither can we.
it is a day to count  one’s blessings.
as we prepare to say goodbye to 2011  we wanted to take a moment to reflect on where we’ve been and where  we’re going.
i could actually taste the plastic that my  dish had been wrapped in!
we have a specials menu that changes monthly and includes dishes like our butternut squash ravioli and the ever-popular summer steak and peach salad.
no one knows for sure.
on behalf our all of us at willow street and main street, we wish you a prosperous and happy new year.
i wasn’t expecting much, and frankly, i knew it was going to be bad.
yes, we said it, gluten-free molten chocolate cake.
but it’s what else we do that has kept us at the front of the  pack for a generation.
so, listen up cause i’m gonna ‘splain it to  you…willow street does more than pizza.
follow willow street on facebook willow street wood-fired pizza on  facebook join eclub for special offers our fans receive special discounts and  promotions..
of  course, as private citizens, we’re frankly not sure if 24/7 isn’t a  little over the top.
then, one day, it all changed.
willow street does more than pizza.
so tomorrow, between the gravy and the first downs, take a moment to reflect on the good life…then loosen your belt and take a nap.
or coconut prawns with homemade pineapple chili dipping sauce…and that’s just a few things off our sports menu.
yet, thanks to your loyalty and friendship, it has been worth the effort.
what we do know is that when it comes to creative, tasty, cutting edge dishes, folks in the know will still be coming to willow street.