we tend to judge a book by its cover and perceive  the flavor of the food by its looks.
this entry was posted in commentary, world and tagged family, food, fusion, homemade, makeover, meals, recipe.
add some fresh tomatoes, green onions, olives, feta and make your own instant sauce.
pingback: pizza with pizzazz | go .
give leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
try to diversity with what you know rather than trying new  complicated recipes.
your email address will not be published.
for example, you need not serve the same old spaghetti  with marinara.
try a thai red curry with penne  pasta, then add shrimp or chicken depending on what your family prefers.
the challenge families’ face is how to keep the same homemade recipes interesting and appealing to the entire family, young and old.
try to diversity with what you know rather than trying new complicated recipes.
pizza with pizzazz | go .
you can also control the portions  your family is eating by pre plating them.
how to do a family meal makeover posted on april 8, 2011 by sucheta more and more families are choosing to cook at home due to health and cost  factors.
avoid  recipes that are deep fried.
make it healthier by using substitutes like olive oil instead of butter  or vegetable oil, wheat flour instead of white, low fat cheeses, etc.
the challenge families’ face is how to keep the same  homemade recipes interesting and appealing to the entire family, young and old.
avoid recipes that are deep fried.
always  use fresh herbs, garlic and spices to make the dish more flavorful.
always use fresh herbs, garlic and spices to make the dish more flavorful.
you can also control the portions your family is eating by pre plating them.
have the kids pitch in while cooking and make something  using some of the ingredients they prefer to eat.
try to plate the food like you would see in an expensive restaurant.
it doesn’t take much, just a garnish of  cheese or parsley for most dishes would do.
grab a starch  from one country and add a sauce from another.
you know what’s not food for you!
top chicken tikka masala on a flat bread or pizza.
for example, you need not serve the same old spaghetti with marinara.
create the interest by blending flavors across cuisines.
make it healthier by using substitutes like olive oil instead of butter or vegetable oil, wheat flour instead of white, low fat cheeses, etc.
we tend to judge a book by its cover and perceive the flavor of the food by its looks.
serve a gazpacho with shells or  macaroni pasta for a delicious & healthy meal.
the way you go about doing this each night is by being conscious  and creative.
try to plate the food like you would see  in an expensive restaurant.
more and more families are choosing to cook at home due to health and cost factors.
← sushi with suchi one response to how to do a family meal makeover pingback:
have the kids pitch in while cooking and make something using some of the ingredients they prefer to eat.
bookmark the permalink.
grab a starch from one country and add a sauce from another.
it is no surprise that home cooked food is comparatively healthier  because you know exactly what you put in it (hopefully not preserved and canned  items.)
required fields are marked * name * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:                powered by wordpress and sliding door theme.
here are some simple recommendations to make a typical family meal  makeover – 1.
top  chicken tikka masala on a flat bread or pizza.
it doesn’t take much, just a garnish of cheese or parsley for most dishes would do.
these are simple makeovers to  do and the whole family can enjoy the process.
serve a gazpacho with shells or macaroni pasta for a delicious & healthy meal.
also, it’s much cheaper than ordering in, especially for 2+ people households.
the way you go about doing this each night is by being conscious and creative.
add some fresh tomatoes, green onions, olives, feta and make  your own instant sauce.
also, it’s much cheaper than ordering in, especially for 2+  people households.
it is no surprise that home cooked food is comparatively healthier because you know exactly what you put in it (hopefully not preserved and canned items.)
read more on fusion cooking.
required fields are marked * name * email * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:              powered by wordpress and sliding door theme.
try a thai red curry with penne pasta, then add shrimp or chicken depending on what your family prefers.
this entry was posted in  commentary, world and tagged family, food, fusion, homemade, makeover, meals,  recipe.
these are simple makeovers to do and the whole family can enjoy the process.