(though i can imagine a few congressmen  hypothetically railing against this “despicable waste of taxpayer  money” as an example of what’s wrong with our government and armed  forces today.)
i’m pretty sure we all acknowledge that the people who protect us need to blow off steam on occasion.
i see  nothing about pr efforts.
(note to big companies going through a rebranding:  do not announce  your name until you secure the website.
(ani) i’m pretty sure this is still a pr stunt – especially given the fact thatpastahut.com is listed as an online auction portal belonging to one kevin smith.
it gets the army’s brand mentioned and distributed by and for the very  people that the recruiters want to reach!
the new pasta hut outlets will be unwrapped in 2009 and 2010, with interiors of 700 current uk restaurant being given a face-lift.
tags: april fools, april fools autopilot, april fools gmail, autopilot, gmail, gmail autopilot, google autopilot posted in april fools |
or maybe because it made someone other than ourselves look like an idiot.
and, heck, why not for branding in general.
“the army’s mission is to fight and win our nation’s wars by providing prompt, sustained land dominance across the full range of military operations and spectrum of conflict in support of combatant commanders.”
(if the image above is too small you can click on it to see the full-size screen.)
tags: april fools, bad idea, pasta hut, pizza hut, pr, press release,  promotion, website posted in uncategorized | 2 comments » subscribe to our newsletter » fail: petco thinks we’re idiots?
(if the image above is too small you can click on it to see the full-size  screen.)
think our men and women in uniform are now going to fight more fiercely, or that our enemies will be more easily dominated?
much like great advertising, great organizational pranks should reinforce what is central to the brand.
maybe it’s possible…
click a button, move some sliders…  get your new logo and brand positioning.
posted by: tate linden i’m all for humor in the workplace, and even shared publicly on behalf of organizations likegoogle, youtube (which is basically also google,)starbucks (the unofficial fuel of googlers), toshiba (also, somehow related to google, if we cared to keep up this farce,) and other upstanding brands.
we’ve got thousands of recruiting candidates that were reminded of the army when otherwise they’d just be thinking about pranks and playing angry birds on their smart phones!
(though i can imagine a few congressmen hypothetically railing against this “despicable waste of taxpayer money” as an example of what’s wrong with our government and armed forces today.)
just log in to your gmail account and look in the upper right hand corner where you will see something like this: click on “new! gmail autopilot” and check out the great new features!
the problem with pr that goes for the quick sale (or in this case – quick recruiting bump) is that it usually sacrifices the long-term equity of the brand to make that happen.
then… two days ago we see this: pizza hut renamed pasta hut to promote healthy eating london, october 7 (ani): worlds largest selling pizza restaurant chain, pizza hut, has been renamed pasta hut as part of a 100million-pound overhaul to promote healthy eating.
starbucks’ creating the  drive-by coffee service shows that they understand what we want from them in an  ideal world.
then… two days ago we see this: pizza hut renamed pasta hut to promote healthy eating london, october 7 (ani): worlds largest selling pizza restaurant chain, pizza hut, has been renamed pasta hut as part of a 100million-pound  overhaul to promote healthy eating.
starbucks’ creating the drive-by coffee service shows that they understand what we want from them in an ideal world.
organizations both serious and playful can find successful ways to use  april fools to show what is important to them.
google autopilot can respond to business proposals, manage your personal  relationships and match your tone in emails – all through intelligent use  of simple slider mechanisms that effectively turn your personality into a bunch  of computer variables.
toshiba having a 3-d monocle embraces the absurd levels to which technophiles will go (even when what they want is something that is[?] an impossibility.)
and, heck, why  not for branding in general.
and if it isn’t a pr stunt, well… kevin is  about to become a very rich man.
or  maybe because it made someone other than ourselves look like an idiot.
you have been warned.
i’m pretty sure we all acknowledge that the people who protect us  need to blow off steam on occasion.
tags: april fools, april fools autopilot, april fools gmail, autopilot,  gmail, gmail autopilot, google autopilot posted in april fools |
it isnot, however a part of  who the army is to make fun of their own mission directly or indirectly.
no comments » imagine a world where you no longer need to sift through piles of email and strategically answer only the ones that matter.
how does one play a prank that advances the brand of the  “…group of rough men [and women] who stand ready to visit violence  on those who would harm us.” ?
it’s part of who we are as a nation.
(and yes, i do know that winston wasn’t talking aboutours, but still.)
if the military can showit’s cool enough to make fun of itself then maybe it can appeal to more of the young men and women who could potentially enlist.
i see nothing about pr efforts.
(ani) i’m pretty sure this is still a pr stunt – especially given the  fact thatpastahut.com is listed as an online auction portal belonging to one  kevin smith.
john wanamakerwww.twitter.com/stokefire 2012/04/14 "advertising is legalized lying."
but what about something like our armed services?
and everyone has a right to be playful  once in a while.
we like the prank aspect because it makes us laugh or it catches us off guard.
and everyone has a right to be playful once in a while.
a peek at stokefire’s latest brand identity work: do as i say… an open letter to the stewards of the progressive & democratic brands three steps to an irresistible brand @stokefire tweets sales may lead to advertising as much as advertising leads to sales.
everyone thought it was anapril fools prank.
it isnot, however a part of who the army is to make fun of their own mission directly or indirectly.
think our men and women in uniform are now going to fight more fiercely, or  that our enemies will be more easily dominated?
we  like the prank aspect because it makes us laugh or it catches us off guard.
“the army’s mission is to fight and win our nation’s wars  by providing prompt, sustained land dominance across the full range of military  operations and spectrum of conflict in support of combatant commanders.”
much like great advertising, great organizational pranks should reinforce  what is central to the brand.
now, if only i could find an autopilot for this blog.
- h. g. wells  www.twitter.com/stokefire 2012/04/14 archives select month  april 2012  (2)  march 2012  (1)   january 2012  (3)  december 2011  (3)  november 2011  (4)   october 2011  (5)  september 2011  (13)  august 2011  (17)  july  2011  (9)  june 2011  (15)  may 2011  (13)  april 2011  (6)   march 2011  (12)  february 2011  (2)  december 2010  (8)   september 2010  (2)  august 2010  (3)  july 2010  (2)  june 2010   (6)  may 2010  (5)  april 2010  (2)  march 2010  (1)   january 2010  (6)  december 2009  (2)  october 2009  (1)   september 2009  (2)  august 2009  (3)  july 2009  (4)  june 2009   (5)  may 2009  (1)  april 2009  (8)  march 2009  (7)   february 2009  (4)  january 2009  (10)  december 2008  (11)   november 2008  (6)  october 2008  (9)  september 2008  (2)   august 2008  (9)  july 2008  (9)  june 2008  (8)  may 2008   (4)  april 2008  (8)  march 2008  (7)  february 2008  (4)   january 2008  (14)  december 2007  (6)  november 2007  (16)   october 2007  (10)  september 2007  (7)  august 2007  (13)  july  2007  (14)  june 2007  (7)  may 2007  (19)  april 2007  (13)  march 2007  (27)  february 2007  (31)  january 2007  (38)   december 2006  (38)  november 2006  (36)  october 2006  (40)   september 2006  (18)  august 2006  (28)  july 2006  (13)  june  2006  (24)  may 2006  (22)  april 2006  (24) subscribe to our newsletter » 1711
the problem with pr that goes for the quick sale (or in this case –  quick recruiting bump) is that it usually sacrifices the long-term equity of  the brand to make that happen.
no  comments » oct  09  2008 evidently they were not kidding… back in april there was a news blurb about pizza hut changing their name to  pasta hut.
don draperwww.twitter.com/stokefire 23 hours ago half the money i spend on advertising is wasted; the trouble is, i don't  know which half. -
how does one play a prank that advances the brand of the “…group of rough men [and women] who stand ready to visit violence on those who would harm us.” ?
but why would they try to do it?
people send around the best of the best and just about everyone loves it.
(seegroupon and burger king for examples of  crispin+porter doing just that.)
posted by: tate linden i’m all for humor in the workplace, and even shared publicly on  behalf of organizations likegoogle, youtube (which is basically also google,)starbucks (the unofficial fuel of googlers), toshiba (also, somehow  related to google, if we cared to keep up this farce,) and other upstanding  brands.
google autopilot handles  all the dirty work for you.
note that google warns that two accounts with the service may very well have conversations with each other that could “commit you to dinner parties or baby namings in which you have no interest.”
tags: april fools, marketing, pr posted in april fools, branding,  marketing, thingnamer | no comments » apr  01  2009 google autopilot imagine a world where you no longer need to sift through piles of email and  strategically answer only the ones that matter.
but what makes an organizational april fools prank great for the  organization is completely different than what makes it great as a prank.
tags: april fools, bad idea, pasta hut, pizza hut, pr, press release, promotion, website posted in uncategorized | 2 comments »
-  michael schudsonwww.twitter.com/stokefire 10 hours ago "just so you know, the people who talk that way think that monkeys  can do this.
what’s wrong is that the army has, in an effort to attract recruits,  diminished its own brand.
according to  google’s gmail that day is finally here.
it actually moves the brand forward.
tags: april fools, marketing, pr posted in april fools, branding, marketing, thingnamer |
for toshiba it’s unbelievably advanced technology.
have a cautiously optimistic 4/1 everyone!
the health conscious company has removed hydrogenated vegetable oils from its menu, and a saturated fat removal programme is underway.
for toshiba  it’s unbelievably advanced technology.
when april shouldn’t be fooled.
but what about something like our  armed services?
it gets the army’s brand mentioned and distributed by and for the very people that the recruiters want to reach!
click a button, move some sliders… get your new logo and brand positioning.
(and yes, i do know that winston  wasn’t talking aboutours, but still.)
king street | suite c | alexandria, va  22314 | 703.535.6907 copyright © 2011 stokefire  consulting group, inc.
no comments » back in april there was a news blurb about pizza hut changing their name to pasta hut.
i see nothing about fashionable headwear.
(note to big companies going through a rebranding: do not announce your name until you secure the website.
think our citizens will now  respect the army more now that they’veendorsed an actual company and  given them preferential placement over competitors likewrangler, american west,  andatwood?
i am confident that people will like what they see when they come into our restaurants, the sun quoted pasta hut head alasdair murdoch as saying.
so why would anyone think that this is anything but brilliance?
seems like the reason is to show that the brand is in touch with  today’s potential recruits.
we’ve  got thousands of recruiting candidates that were reminded of the army when  otherwise they’d just be thinking about pranks and playing angry birds on  their smart phones!
the international franchise, which has made its commerce in the uk since 1973, has revealed that it is introducing healthier food for big nutritional changes.
organizations both serious and playful can find successful ways to use april fools to show what is important to them.
and not just because we expect our rough men (and women) to be serious and  proud.
that said… at least they didn’t say “mission  accomplished.”
with a mission statement that is built around concepts like “fight,” “dominance,” and “conflict” this prank actually works against the brand.
with a mission statement that is built around concepts like  “fight,” “dominance,” and “conflict” this  prank actually works against the brand.
what’s wrong is that the army has, in an effort to attract recruits, diminished its own brand.
i see nothing about pranks.
note that google warns that two accounts with the  service may very well have conversations with each other that could  “commit you to dinner parties or baby namings in which you have no  interest.”
while a new pasta carte du jour will be offered, the childrens menu shall embrace hidden vegetables, along with a complimentary side salad.
in this case the army has invested time and  money to show that they’re funny and perhaps that they’re  fashionable enough to know that their current headwear isn’t particularly  cool.
it’s pr that enhances recruiting.
google autopilot handles all the dirty work for you.
defending our nation is not funny.
seems like the reason is to show that the brand is in touch with today’s potential recruits.
just log in to your gmail account and look in the upper right hand corner  where you will see something like this: click on “new! gmail autopilot” and check out the great new  features!
and not just because we expect our rough men (and women) to be serious and proud.
(seegroupon and burger king for examples of crispin+porter doing just that.)
in this case the army has invested time and money to show that they’re funny and perhaps that they’re fashionable enough to know that their current headwear isn’t particularly cool.
if the military can showit’s cool  enough to make fun of itself then maybe it can appeal to more of the young men  and women who could potentially enlist.
according to google’s gmail that day is finally here.
i am confident that people will like what they see when they come into  our restaurants, the sun quoted pasta hut head alasdair murdoch as saying.
and if it isn’t a pr stunt, well… kevin is about to become a very rich man.
even if you might be able to go to icann and protest – why not just do it right in the first place?)
but what makes an organizational april fools prank great for the organization is completely different than what makes it great as a prank.
i do see a critically important aspect of our national defense.
think our citizens will now respect the army more now that they’veendorsed an actual company and given them preferential placement over competitors likewrangler, american west, andatwood?
toshiba having a 3-d monocle  embraces the absurd levels to which technophiles will go (even when what they  want is something that is[?] an impossibility.)
that said… at least they didn’t say “mission accomplished.”
google autopilot can respond to business proposals, manage your personal relationships and match your tone in emails – all through intelligent use of simple slider mechanisms that effectively turn your personality into a bunch of computer variables.
other people are perfectly welcome to make fun of the army brand.