we've  replaced the traditional heavy cream with skim milk so you can afford to  indulge your taste buds without a guilty lasagna lasagna is a nice italian dish that will more than fill most pasta  cravings.
artichoke pizza this delectable pizza is easy to make and nutritious, too!
so throw some meat, vegetables and spaghetti together and go chop suey.
artichoke, the  main event, is an excellent low- calorie source of fiber and vitamin c, and a  good source of folate and magnesium.
traditionally, people use corkscrew pasta, but feel free to use any tubular  pasta, such as elbows and ziti.
grandmom's chop suey grandmom's chop suey is an easy diabetic recipe to prepare and gives your  dinner an oriental flair.
this traditional comfort food isn't just for kids.
this traditional comfort food isn't just  for kids.
this grown-up gourmet version with cheddar and ricotta cheese is  melt-in-your-mouth creamy and smooth.
find out if you qualify today with a free and simple profile: free diabetic supplies form * deductibles and co-pays may apply.
it also makes a wonderful lunch  entrée.
this grown-up gourmet version with cheddar and ricotta cheese is melt-in-your-mouth creamy and smooth.
home pizza & pasta viva italia!
we lightened  up this favorite by substituting plain fettuccine alfredo
in order to make this pasta recipe, pasta salad pasta salad is an easy, quick dish that compliments most meals.
low-fat macaroni and cheese
mediterranean orzo and vegetable pilaf this delicious mix of orzo and vegetables is the perfect complement to any  grilled or roasted chicken or fish.
this delectable pizza is easy to make and nutritious, too!
we lightened up this favorite by substituting plain now you no longer have to steer clear of this rich italian classic.
we've replaced the traditional heavy cream with skim milk so you can afford to indulge your taste buds without a guilty lasagna is a nice italian dish that will more than fill most pasta cravings.
in order to make this 1
this delicious mix of orzo and vegetables is the perfect complement to any grilled or roasted chicken or fish.
traditionally, people use corkscrew pasta, but feel free to use any tubular pasta, such as elbows and ziti.
artichoke, the main event, is an excellent low- calorie source of fiber and vitamin c, and a good source of folate and magnesium.
in order to make this you could be eligible to receive the testing supplies you need, the easy way, for little or no out-of-pocket cost.
in order to make this pasta recipe, pasta salad is an easy, quick dish that compliments most meals.
so throw some meat, vegetables and spaghetti together  and go chop suey.
grandmom's chop suey is an easy diabetic recipe to prepare and gives your dinner an oriental flair.
it also makes a wonderful lunch entrée.
pizza and pasta are favorite foods for many americans, but you can easily make healthier versions of the italian classics.
the sauteed onion and garlic ensure a beef stroganoff you just can't beat this tried-and-true family classic.
now you no longer have to steer clear of this rich italian classic.
http://twitter.com/amdiabetes http://www.facebook.com/pages/american-diabetes/76163528765 http://www.youtube.com/americandiabetesvid copyright © 2010 american diabetes.
the sauteed onion and garlic ensure a you just can't beat this tried-and-true family classic.
who doesn't love mac and cheese?
tender strips of  beef and meaty portobello mushrooms combine for a hearty pleasure.
american diabetes services, a leading supplier of diabetic testing supplies, offers these diabetic pizza and pasta recipes as a healthier yet flavorful alternative to the original.
800-254-4667 viva italia!
hearty and good comfort food, lasagna is one pasta dish that will warm your heart.
pizza and pasta are favorite foods for many americans, but  you can easily make healthier versions of the italian classics.
hearty and good comfort food, lasagna is one pasta dish that will  warm your heart.
american  diabetes services, a leading supplier of diabetic testing supplies, offers  these diabetic pizza and pasta recipes as a healthier yet flavorful alternative  to the original.
tender strips of beef and meaty portobello mushrooms combine for a hearty pleasure.
* support plus medical is the supplies division of american diabetes.