try making your own for a healthier option - quick breads - acorn squash quick bread with cranberries and walnuts - whole wheat cinnamon muffins - whole-wheat banana bread recipe to help wean you away from processed flour - salads - classic 7-layer salad gets a makeover from eating well - combine cucumbers and black-eyed peas to make a salad that family and friends will love - corn and black bean salad from cooks.com - fruit and spinach salad - lighten up pasta salad with a recipe that goes easy on the dressing - whole wheat orzo greek salad - side dishes - baked acorn squash - healthy scalloped potatoes - maple roasted sweet potatoes - tomato zucchini casserole from allrecipes.com - whole grain bread dressing - soups - black bean & sweet potato chili - low calorie black bean soup – great for chilly fall evenings - ten day
a little more - i like to move it to turbo jam and turbo kick.
it’s a dance party - i like to move it with gliding discs - i like to move it, move it – at work - i like to move it, move it to music - i like to move, move it . . . .
for the first few months i would go from eating whole grain pasta and brown rice back to the white.
you may be wondering, why bother?  remember that for grains to be made  into fluffy products such as white rice, pasta or bread they have to go through  aprocess that removes the bran and germ which depletes many of the nutrients  and fiber.
subscribe to blog via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
a little more i like to move it to turbo jam and turbo kick.
remember that for grains to be made into fluffy products such as white rice, pasta or bread they have to go through aprocess that removes the bran and germ which depletes many of the nutrients and fiber.
it is absolutely possible to re-train your taste buds so that you no longer  crave the sticky white starchy pastas and breads.
spam protection by wp captcha-free some links on this blog may take you to sites for which i am an affiliate.
as time went by i found i was enjoying the whole grain foods  better.
i decided to move my family away from whole grains a couple of years ago, and at first it wasn’t easy.
it seems i just still craved white rice and pasta.
for day four - tip for day five - tip for day six - tip for day seven - tip for day eight - tip
a health and wellness blog search main menu skip to primary content skip to secondary content - home - about me - archives - fitness rock stars - 15k hot chocolate rock stars run through the chicago loop - chix in training rock stars - fitness rock star turns her dream to reality - sole sisters are off and running - makeover recipes - desserts - cinnamon streusel
at first i made some dishes with whole-grain, some with white, and some  were 50/50.
plus, the best thing  about the unprocessed products is the extra fiber keeps us full longer.
though we’ve become accustomed to the softer texture of processed grains, we have lost much of the nutritional value.
if you love white breads and pastas, how will you ever get used to whole grains?
now we’ve gone completely to a whole grain diet (except when we go to a mexican restaurant that still serves white tortillas).
at first i made some dishes with whole-grain, some with white, and some were 50/50.
as time went by i found i was enjoying the whole grain foods better.
they have more texture, don’t get sticky in the pan,  it’s harder to overcook them and they have a nuttier flavor.
share leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
i like to move, move it . . . .
it’s a dance party i like to move it with gliding discs i like to move it, move it –
at work i like to move it, move it to music
whole grains can help prevent chronic diseases that are now prevalent in  our society such as diabetes, cancer and heart disease.
it is absolutely possible to re-train your taste buds so that you no longer crave the sticky white starchy pastas and breads.
required fields are marked * name *
we are all trying to find a way to live a healthier lifestyle in this fast-paced, super-sized world.
for day eight retrain you taste buds to prefer whole wheat bread (flickr photo)
i’ll bet you will be like me and give the white stuff up for good.
proudly powered by wordpress bad behavior has blocked 594 access attempts in the last 7 days.
if you love white breads and pastas, how will you ever get used to whole  grains?
crisps - mini raspberry tarts - no-crust cranberry pie - peach blueberry cobbler - pumpkin angel food cake - pumpkin custard - strawberry sherbet recipe from eating well.com - entrees - hamburger helper healthy-style - healthy hamburger casserole recipe - low fat baked oregano chicken and rice - sloppy joe mac and cheese gets a makeover - tomato & chicken pizza – a makeover recipe from fitness magazine - healthier hvr dressing - hummus:
whole grains can help prevent chronic diseases that are now prevalent in our society such as diabetes, cancer and heart disease.
though we’ve become accustomed to the softer texture of  processed grains, we have lost much of the nutritional value.
for day two - tip for day three - tip
please note: javascript is required to post comments.
after reading“the culprit and the cure” i decided it was time to give this whole-grain ‘fad’ a try.
plus, the best thing about the unprocessed products is the extra fiber keeps us full longer.
put down the cookie provides the latest health and wellness news, fitness information, nutrition, weight loss tips and motivation to live a healthier life and sorts out what works and what doesn’t.
you’ll find healthy recipes, workout videos, and most of all, encouragement.
see this wordpress fonts plugin
what can i say?  no one is perfect.
after  reading“the culprit and the cure” i decided it was time to give  this whole-grain ‘fad’ a try.
fontsforweb.com - free web fonts download.
i’ll bet you will be like me and give the white stuff up for  good.
you can learn to prefer brown rice, whole-wheat spaghetti, and whole-wheat tortillas over white.
try to stick to only whole grains for the ten day challenge and see how you  do.
i like to move it . . . .
required fields are marked * name * email * website * copy this password: * type or paste password here: 2,015 spam comments blocked so far by spam free wordpress comment you may use these html tags and attributes:              notify me of followup comments via e-mail notify me of new posts by email.
they have more texture, don’t get sticky in the pan, it’s harder to overcook them and they have a nuttier flavor.
i decided to move my family away from whole grains a couple of years ago,  and at first it wasn’t easy.
try to stick to only whole grains for the ten day challenge and see how you do.
for day ten - welcome - i like to move it!
you can learn to prefer  brown rice, whole-wheat spaghetti, and whole-wheat tortillas over white.
put that cookie down now!
now we’ve gone completely to a whole grain diet (except  when we go to a mexican restaurant that still serves white tortillas).
for the first few months i would go from eating whole grain pasta and brown  rice back to the white.
you may be wondering, why bother?
share tweet leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published.
- i like to move it . . . .
it seems i just still craved white rice and  pasta.