which is  why we reccomend pairing any of our pastas with a zesty marinara or olive  oil sauce component and …voila!
a carb, full name carbohydrate, is  a component of food used for energy in the body.
we’ve all heard of, and probably tried, the  atkins diet.
mmmmm probably yes……….
anna morris posted in healthy eating |
which is why we reccomend pairing any of our pastas with a zesty marinara or olive oil sauce component and …voila!
loaded with  vegetables it is healthy and delicious both hot and cold!
14 oz. bag of peace, love and happiness pasta, ½ cup oil packed sundried tomatoes, drained and chopped, 14 oz. can quartered artichoke hearts, drained, 3 oz.
that’s right, you  don’t get your energy from that bun less loaded bacon cheeseburger atkins  encouraged you to gorge on, you get more from the fries.
6  minutes until tender but firm (salt optional).
step 5: add sundried tomatoes, artichoke quarters, and  fresh spinach and stir until spinach wilts.
and for those of you who take extra care, check out our petite pasta nests….pretty nifty little things with 100 calories a nest.
that’s right, you don’t get your energy from that bun less loaded bacon cheeseburger atkins encouraged you to gorge on, you get more from the fries.
no comments » contact about us our team blog privacy policy our guarantee shipping faqs site map
archive for the ‘healthy eating’ category spring time recipe: peace, love and happiness pasta in a lemon shallot  sauce thursday, april 26th, 2012 a great spring time recipe is our new peace, love and happiness  pasta in a delicious lemon shallot sauce.
a carb, full name carbohydrate, is a component of food used for energy in the body.
step 4: in a small bowl, whisk cornstarch into remaining 1 cup stock until smooth.
not to mention, our pasta is a lot healthier  than many other fattening and sugar loaded fundraising options.
even regular white pastas contain a plentiful amount of the  “good carbs”.
they really are delicious, and full of the good-for-you carbs.
tags: fun pasta recipes, lemon shallot sauce, love and happness pasta, peace posted in fun recipes, healthy eating |
our bodies crave pastas, breads and rice because we need them for our bodies to function properly.
stir in lemon juice, 1 cup vegetable stock, and  wine.
sugar, flour, potatoes….even fruits have been banned in many of these  “miracle” diets.
not only are you getting your energy and fiber, your piling on those vitamins, antioxidants and omega 3’s.
no comments » well, isn’t this the question of the ages.
but, it made me feel terrible and truly was not a pleasant  experience.
slowly pour in to shallot mixture, stirring constantly  and cook until sauce is thickened and smooth, about 2 minutes.
an objective view from the fun pasta people  themselves thursday, august 11th, 2011
it lasted for a complete day, and i was quite proud of  myself.
even regular white pastas contain a plentiful amount of the “good carbs”.
just like everything else  in life, balance is the key.
while it is cooking start boiling the water for the pasta.
step 4: in a small bowl, whisk cornstarch into remaining 1  cup stock until smooth.
the recipe comes on  the back of this pasta or just follow the instructions below to enjoy!
top with parmesan cheese!
they come in  whole wheat, spinach basil garlic, and tri-color.
in recent years,  our friend the carb has been made out to be the bad guy….every time.
top with  parmesan cheese!
slowly pour in to shallot mixture, stirring constantly and cook until sauce is thickened and smooth, about 2 minutes.
no comments » subscribe
just like everything else in life, balance is the key.
hmmm probably not….. last time i checked, you need  energy to work out.
stir in lemon juice, 1 cup vegetable stock, and wine.
you may have heard of net carbs,  which are the kind with fiber and lower sugar, like pasta and whole wheat  breads!!!
not to mention all of our pasta has 6 grams or more of protein per serving, and very low sugar!
these are the kinds to fill up on!
well, isn’t this the question of the ages.
while it is cooking  start boiling the water for the pasta.
(about 3 cups packed) fresh spinach leaves, cut or torn, ¾ cup minced shallots (about 4 medium sized shallots), 1 t. olive oil, ½ cup lemon juice (fresh squeezed- use less if you don’t love lemons), 2 cups vegetable stock, divided, 1 cup dry white wine or apple juice, 1 t. cornstarch, ¼ cup chopped parsley 1 t. (or more) dried thyme or 1 t. fresh thyme, zest of 2 lemons (or 1 if you want more of a hint of lemon), parmesan cheese for topping and salt and pepper to taste.
(about 3 cups packed) fresh spinach leaves,  cut or torn, ¾ cup minced shallots (about 4 medium sized shallots), 1 t.  olive oil, ½ cup lemon juice (fresh squeezed- use less if you  don’t love lemons), 2 cups vegetable stock, divided, 1 cup dry white wine  or apple juice, 1 t. cornstarch, ¼ cup chopped parsley 1 t. (or more)  dried thyme or 1 t. fresh thyme, zest of 2 lemons (or 1 if you want more of a  hint of lemon), parmesan cheese for topping and salt and pepper to taste.
not to mention, our pasta is a lot healthier than many other fattening and sugar loaded fundraising options.
and for those of you who take extra care, check out our petite pasta  nests….pretty nifty little things with 100 calories a nest.
pass up the huge bowl of spaghetti or deep dish pizza and go for some whole wheat pasta dishes.
step 2: in a large skillet or wok, saute shallots in olive oil over medium heat for about 4 minutes or until translucent.
this is a great, vegetarian  recipe that is as earthy and delicious as it sounds.
our bodies crave pastas, breads and rice because we  need them for our bodies to function properly.
14 oz. bag of peace, love and happiness pasta, ½  cup oil packed sundried tomatoes, drained and chopped, 14 oz. can quartered  artichoke hearts, drained, 3 oz.
a great spring time recipe is our new peace, love and happiness pasta in a delicious lemon shallot sauce.
cook pasta in gently boiling water for approx.
nix the fries and go for a potato.
you may have heard of net carbs, which are the kind with fiber and lower sugar, like pasta and whole wheat breads!!!
not to  mention all of our pasta has 6 grams or more of protein per serving, and very  low sugar!
step 5: add sundried tomatoes, artichoke quarters, and fresh spinach and stir until spinach wilts.
no comments » the truth about carbs-
grehan tags: fun pasta recipes, lemon shallot sauce, love and happness pasta, peace posted in fun recipes, healthy eating |
so are carbs really bad for you?
it lasted for a complete day, and i was quite proud of myself.
the recipe comes on the back of this pasta or just follow the instructions below to enjoy!
this is a great, vegetarian recipe that is as earthy and delicious as it sounds.
sugar, flour, potatoes….even fruits have been banned in many of these “miracle” diets.
so… what really is a carb, and why do we love (and need) them?
not only are you getting your energy and  fiber, your piling on those vitamins, antioxidants and omega 3’s.
it pairs so well with the shapes in this pasta- making for a great dinner or side dish.
in a large skillet or wok, saute shallots in olive  oil over medium heat for about 4 minutes or until translucent.
6 minutes until tender but firm (salt optional).
stir in parsley,  thyme, zest, and salt and pepper to taste.
it pairs so well with the  shapes in this pasta- making for a great dinner or side dish.
they come in whole wheat, spinach basil garlic, and tri-color.
but, it made me feel terrible and truly was not a pleasant experience.
drain pasta and combine with sauce.
so… what really is  a carb, and why do we love (and need) them?
stir in parsley, thyme, zest, and salt and pepper to taste.
bring to a low boil and cook for about 10 minutes.
step 1: the ingredients!
they really are delicious,  and full of the good-for-you carbs.
loaded with vegetables it is healthy and delicious both hot and cold!
pass up the huge bowl of spaghetti or deep dish pizza and go for some whole  wheat pasta dishes.
in recent years, our friend the carb has been made out to be the bad guy….every time.
hmmm probably not….. last time i checked, you need energy to work out.
we’ve all heard of, and probably tried, the atkins diet.