it can mess up your  hormones and your digestive system.
besides food products, a major contribution to the healthy diet of asians comes from their frequent consumption of tea, particularly green, oolong or black.
since many asians tend to be  lactose-intolerant, they often drink soymilk rather than whole milk.
instead of having to finish one’s plate, asians are more concerned with  finishing one’s bowl of rice, while consuming bite size portions of  various types of dishes, which consist mostly of vegetables.
its health  benefits have long been lauded, as it’s known to help prevent heart  diseases, intestinal disorders and cancers as it contains antioxidants.
by comparing the eating habits in the u.s and east asia (mainly china, taiwan, korea and japan), we can understand why and how the typical asian diet can translate into a healthier lifestyle.
it’s typically eaten with every meal, in the form of steamed, sticky rice.
you can also  subscribe to these comments via rss.
the difference in body types is apparent when i shop in asia, and i find myself having to buy clothing in a size large, instead of my usual small or medium sizes.
instead of worrying about eating a certain portion size, you simply stop eating once your stomach’s half full.
soymilk is a healthier option, as it has the same amount of protein as cow’s milk, but with smaller amounts of saturated fat and no cholesterol.
when i go to asia, it’s hard not to notice that most people there are  incredibly skinny, especially in comparison to the average american.
then there are the remarks i hear from relatives about how  “healthy” i look, which is their polite way of saying i must be  eating a little too well.
#taiwanesepower  2 weeks ago @ehwick glad you enjoyed our @itasa talk!
on the other hand, the main  ingredient for americans is white bread, which in large amounts causes  carb-overload, and unnecessary weight gain.
eating style while americans usually eat from separate dishes, asians are accustomed to  family-style dishes, where there is typically one small dish of each food group  for everyone to share, paired with a bowl of rice and sometimes a bowl of soup.
its health benefits have long been lauded, as it’s known to help prevent heart diseases, intestinal disorders and cancers as it contains antioxidants.
instead of  worrying about eating a certain portion size, you simply stop eating once your  stomach’s half full.
on asian beauty tips from a celebrity make-up  artist dancing in the street: choreography in kpop « high yellow on shaun  evaristo: choreographer to the stars scott on demystifying asian cuisine with korean american chef debbie lee mike on demystifying asian cuisine with korean american chef debbie lee blogroll
it can mess up your hormones and your digestive system.
related posts: i heard that too much soy can be really bad for you.
much of what accounts for why asians are generally more slender and healthier than americans — who are currently dealing with widespread obesity — lies in the differences in diet.
with high mortality rates and lower cases of heart diseases among asians (particularly the japanese), it’s no secret that the traditional asian diet has numerous benefits both physically—helps maintain a healthy weight—and internally, as your body lower levels of unhealthy toxins.
tea is drunk throughout the day, especially after meals.
subscribe to us get the latest updates by joining the mochi mailing  list by filling out the required fields below:  email confirm your  email address i prefer to receive emails in html format mochi twitter updates guess which asian american #athlete just made time's top 100 list?
add your comment below, or trackback from your own site.
in the u.s., on the other hand, coffee, whose health benefits are often questionable, remains the preferred source of caffeine.
another major ingredient in the asian diet is soy, frequently consumed in the form of tofu, which contains large amounts of iron, calcium and protein, while being low in carbohydrates and fats.
home » body, food, health,  winter is the “asian diet” inherently healthier?
asian dishes mom used to make the truth behind dieting—what really works from the mochi test kitchen: dorm-style asian food the breakfast club one asian american teen’s experience with anorexia one  comment one comment » hannah said: i heard that too much soy can be really bad for you.
overall, asians mostly consume foods that are lower in carbohydrates and  cholesterol.
do you accept  guest articles on your blog?
since it’s so easy to digest, rice can be eaten frequently throughout the day.
besides food products, a major contribution to the healthy diet of asians  comes from their frequent consumption of tea, particularly green, oolong or  black.
the  difference in body types is apparent when i shop in asia, and i find myself  having to buy clothing in a size large, instead of my usual small or medium  sizes.
0  1 # 31 march 2010 at 1:23 am leave your response!
to get your own globally-recognized-avatar, please register atgravatar.
http://t.co/obe5efkv 2 weeks ago we were so honored to attend @itasa with @sam_akufuncture @hochie71 @ _jasonylee @theeddielee @fkwang @baohaus @rrrlisarrr!
sweets and processed foods are rarely ever eaten in asia, as  fruits usually suffice as dessert.
but then again, too much of anything is bad.
it’s typically  eaten with every meal, in the form of steamed, sticky rice.
overall, asians mostly consume foods that are lower in carbohydrates and cholesterol.
website (optional) you can use these tags:              this is a gravatar-enabled weblog.
http://t.co/zezu2rx9 2 weeks ago recent comments services a la personne région de brest on actress kelsey chow keeps  her eyes on the prize an interesting read.
let’s first look at the general types of foods consumed on a regular  day in the u.s. and east asia: foods typically consumed in asia foods  typically consumed in america breakfast rice  porridge/sticky rice/white rice with pickled vegetables/seaweed,  bread/specialty breads in asian bakeries, meat/vegetable buns, soymilk cereal  with milk, eggs, ham, cheese, bagel with butter/cream cheese, toast, pancakes,  waffles, sausage, croissants, donuts, coffee lunch white  rice with a small portion of vegetables/meat/pickles, a variation of noodles  (soup or stir fried), wrapped rice in seaweed/sushi sandwiches with turkey,  ham, roast beef, tomatoes, salads with chicken/cheese/dressing, pizza dinner bowl of white rice, fish, tofu, soup, pork/beef/chicken  pasta, salad, pot roast, chicken, peas/corn/broccoli/celery, steak, sandwiches,  bread, potatoes dessert/snacks fruit, dried fruit, nuts,  rice crackers, salty crackers chips, cake, pie, ice cream drinks tea (green, oolong, black), soymilk coffee, soda, juices from the table above, we see that the main ingredient in the asian diet is  the beloved white rice.
to get your own  globally-recognized-avatar, please register atgravatar.
much of what accounts for why asians are generally more slender and  healthier than americans — who are currently dealing with widespread  obesity — lies in the differences in diet.
you can also subscribe to these comments via rss.
then there are the remarks i hear from relatives about how “healthy” i look, which is their polite way of saying i must be eating a little too well.
let’s first look at the general types of foods consumed on a regular day in the u.s. and east asia:foods typically consumed in asia foods typically consumed in america from the table above, we see that the main ingredient in the asian diet is the beloved white rice.
with high mortality rates and lower cases of heart diseases among asians  (particularly the japanese), it’s no secret that the traditional asian  diet has numerous benefits both physically—helps maintain a healthy  weight—and internally, as your body lower levels of unhealthy toxins.
by jennifer  kung ⋅ 11 jan 2010 ⋅ post a comment tweet by hazel hyon for mochimag.com
on the other hand, the main ingredient for americans is white bread, which in large amounts causes carb-overload, and unnecessary weight gain.
by hazel hyon for mochimag.com
though it’s easy to eat as americans do, given we live in the states, you can try adhering to the eating habits of your parents and grandparents, since it seems to be working out quite well for a few billion people halfway across the world.
since it’s so easy to digest,  rice can be eaten frequently throughout the day.
another major ingredient in the asian diet is soy, frequently consumed in  the form of tofu, which contains large amounts of iron, calcium and protein,  while being low in carbohydrates and fats.
soymilk is  a healthier option, as it has the same amount of protein as cow’s milk,  but with smaller amounts of saturated fat and no cholesterol.
by comparing the eating habits  in the u.s and east asia (mainly china, taiwan, korea and japan), we can  understand why and how the typical asian diet can translate into a healthier  lifestyle.
in the  u.s., on the other hand, coffee, whose health benefits are often questionable,  remains the preferred source of caffeine.
though it’s easy to eat as americans do, given we live in the states,  you can try adhering to the eating habits of your parents and grandparents,  since it seems to be working out quite well for a few billion people halfway  across the world.
since many asians tend to be lactose-intolerant, they often drink soymilk rather than whole milk.
sweets and processed foods are rarely ever eaten in asia, as fruits usually suffice as dessert.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
eating style while americans usually eat from separate dishes, asians are accustomed to family-style dishes, where there is typically one small dish of each food group for everyone to share, paired with a bowl of rice and sometimes a bowl of soup.
when i go to asia, it’s hard not to notice that most people there are incredibly skinny, especially in comparison to the average american.
according to oldways, rice provides 25 to 80 percent of  the calories in the daily diet of 2.7 billion asians.
according to oldways, rice provides 25 to 80 percent of the calories in the daily diet of 2.7 billion asians.
as author jason bussell of “the asian diet: simple secrets for eating right, losing weight, and being well” explains in an interview with thatsfit.com, “white rice is the most hypo-allergenic, easily-assimilated and energetically neutral of the grains.”
instead of having to finish one’s plate, asians are more concerned with finishing one’s bowl of rice, while consuming bite size portions of various types of dishes, which consist mostly of vegetables.
as author jason  bussell of “the asian diet: simple secrets for eating right, losing  weight, and being well” explains in an interview with thatsfit.com,  “white rice is the most hypo-allergenic, easily-assimilated and  energetically neutral of the grains.”
who  else should be added?http://t.co/3i5fxlkh 1 week ago how #adorable is this?
2 weeks ago our marketing manager @vickitea getting serenaded with straight up by @ kevinlien
website (optional) you can use these tags:                this is a gravatar-enabled weblog.
related posts: the most delicious (and healthy!)
0 1# 31 march 2010 at 1:23 am add your comment below, or trackback from your own site.
i actually have some ideas about this.