- choose regular pasta instead of high-calorie stuffed pastas, like ravioli and tortellini.
skip the deep-fried calamari appetizer, which can contain more  cholesterol than a four-egg omelette and salad drenched in dressing.
there are many regional styles of cooking in italy.
- basil - parmesan cheese - oregano - fresh tomatoes - pasta - olive oil and olives - red peppers - fresh figs - prosciutto - artichokes - eggplant - capers - greens like swiss chard - pine nuts - fava beans back to top ever go to an italian restaurant and stuff yourself with buttered garlic bread, eggplant parmesan, and a cannoli for dessert?
a single plate of fettuccine alfredo contains as much fat as  three pints of almond ice cream!
in fact, the typical italian diet looks a lot like thefood guide pyramid.
to get more fiber and nutrients, look for whole-wheat pasta in most markets and health food stores.
pasta is acarbohydrate that is naturally low in fat unless you smother it in a cream sauce.
what's italian cuisine?
many italian dishes are cooked using olive oil, which is high in heart-healthyunsaturated fat.
it's zesty lemon sauce and chicken cutlets and briny olives andcapers that bring out the taste of the sea in seafood.
these flavored pastas aren't any healthier than regular pasta, and they  don't count as a vegetableserving.
spaghetti,  fettuccine, farfalle, penne, rigatoni, and cappelletti.
pasta also comes in flavors like spinach, sun-dried tomato, and lemon  pepper.
are some italian foods healthier than others?
a single plate of fettuccine alfredo contains as much fat as three pints of almond ice cream!
to get more fiber  and nutrients, look for whole-wheat pasta in most markets and health food  stores.
here are some other healthy italian food choices: tutta pasta!
whatever the shape,  pasta makes a quick and tasty meal.
- dress your green salad the way italians do, with a little olive oil and balsamic vinegar.
food and family: time for something new?
- think of the italian flag: red tomatoes, green zucchini, and white beans are the beginning of a nutritious meal.
untitled email article print article rate this article related articles back foreign fare: viva italian!
whatever the shape, pasta makes a quick and tasty meal.
pasta also comes in flavors like spinach, sun-dried tomato, and lemon pepper.
if you want a healthy italian meal,  choose a simple sauce like marinara or lemon and white wine rather than pesto  or creamy alfredo.
ever go to an italian restaurant and stuff yourself with buttered  garlic bread, eggplant parmesan, and a cannoli for dessert?
- when it comes to heavy dishes, like veal or eggplant parmesan and cheese manicotti, skim off the cheese topping, and you'll eliminate a good portion of the fat.
- ask to have the sauce served on the side so you can decide how much of it you want to eat.
but those colors can liven up your plate!back to top related articles (back to the top) what is baking? what is broiling?
but those colors can liven up your  plate!back to top related  articles (back to the top) •what is baking?
- skip the deep-fried calamari appetizer, which can contain more cholesterol than a four-egg omelette and salad drenched in dressing.
that's one way of  eating italian—the high-fat way.
back to top tutta pasta!
you may be surprised to learn that italians eat only moderate amounts of meat and dairy products.
when it comes to heavy dishes, like veal or eggplant parmesan and cheese  manicotti, skim off the cheese topping, and you'll eliminate a good portion of  the fat.
back to top spaghetti, fettuccine, farfalle, penne, rigatoni, and cappelletti.
if you want a healthy italian meal, choose a simple sauce like marinara or lemon and white wine rather than pesto or creamy alfredo.
pasta is acarbohydrate that is  naturally low in fat unless you smother it in a cream sauce.
here are some other healthy italian food  choices: dress your green salad the way italians do, with a little olive oil and  balsamic vinegar.
here are some tasty ingredients found in italian cooking: are some italian foods healthier than others?
fava beans back to top are some italian foods healthier than  others?
ask to have the sauce served on the side so you can decide how much of it  you want to eat.
well, if you go to italy, you probably won't see these foods on a menu!
authentic italian cuisine is about fresh vegetables and herbs likebasil and oregano.
think of the italian flag: red tomatoes, green zucchini, and white beans  are the beginning of a nutritious meal.
foreign fare: viva italian!
when you think of italian food, do you picture pepperoni pizza and spaghetti and meatballs?
these flavored pastas aren't any healthier than regular pasta, and they don't count as a vegetableserving.
that's one way of eating italianthe high-fat way.
and italians eat lots of complex carbohydrates like chickpeas, fresh fruits, and a variety of vegetables.
choose regular pasta instead of high-calorie stuffed pastas, like ravioli  and tortellini.