we may also use your information to verify your identity or claimed  account status and, where we consider appropriate, investigate your compliance  with the terms and conditions of the website promotion or any advertiser offer.
this information  pass is done to enhance and simplify your purchasing experience.
how we collect information and what information we collect.
if you elect to purchase products or services from an advertiser in the post transactional channel, we will pass the information that you provided during the initial transaction to the subsequent advertiser, including but not limited to your credit card information.
we use  cookies for tracking transactions and the user characteristics explained in  detail throughout this privacy policy.
your whole house will smell divine after the garlic tomato sauce of cheesy spaghetti casserole simmers on your stove for an hour.
this information includes your internet protocol or "ip" address, date/time stamp, browser type, and referring url.
we recognize the unique privacy concerns regarding children.
the company may decide to retain a  copy of the information post sale or transfer.
in particular, our intention is to fully comply with the children's online privacy protection act ("coppa").
as it relates to marketing communications or any other questions you might have about our privacy policy, please write to us at prime publishing, llc, 3400 dundee road, suite 340, northbrook, il 60062.
if you have registered or submitted information under more than one e-mail account, you must submit separate unsubscribe requests for each account.
your california privacy rights active date: september 15, 2008 prime publishing, llc ("company," "we" or "us") reserves the right to revise this privacy policy at any time simply by posting such revision, so we encourage you to review it periodically.
how do we collect information and
what is the policy with respect to communicating with children?
we also may share your information with third parties when: (1) trying to  protect against or prevent actual or potential fraud or unauthorized  transactions; (2) investigating fraud that has already taken place; (3)  enforcing or applying existing terms and conditions and/or other agreements;  (4) protecting the rights, property or safety of our websites, our users or  others; or (5) responding to subpoenas, court orders or legal process, or to  establish or exercise our legal rights or defend against legal claims.
for a quick and healthy weeknight meal that the whole family will love, make this cauliflower pasta pisavera from namaste foods.
you may be familiar with the term "cookies," which are unique  alphanumeric identifiers that store information on your computer.
we have elected the second option.
vendors we may share your information with various third party vendors that are not part of the company, including but not limited to vendors that provide us with technology to deploy commercial e-mail, vendors that sell the products or services for which you have qualified through one of our websites, and shipping companies that we utilize to ship products to you.
we may store and share your information with third parties for suppression or opt-out purposes.
we may use the collected pii and non-pii for any legally permissible purpose in our sole discretion, including but not limited to those explained below.
as the terms and conditions of this website (including limitations on  damages).
if,  after you have shared your information with the company, you decide that you do  not want to receive marketing communications or newsletters from the company  and its third party marketing partners, you can discontinue the communications  byclicking here and filling out our form.
how we may share information.
we may store and share your information with third parties for suppression  or opt-out purposes.
such claim is not otherwise barred by our terms and conditions.
this information, which may include your taxpayer identification number, will not be used, shared, transferred, or sold for marketing purposes.
you can use letters, numbers and white space.
of course, cookies let you have a more satisfying website experience, so we recommend that you leave them turned on.
our websites may offer links to other websites.
acknowledgement/your agreement company websites are not intended for use by individuals under the age of 18 or those who are not legal residents of the united states.
right to transfer should the company choose to sell or transfer  business assets, it is possible that the information we possess may be  transferred as part of that transaction.
such claim is not otherwise barred by our  terms and conditions.
a cookie is placed on your computer when your web browser accesses our website.
this  privacy policy does not apply to affiliated companies and their collection, use  and sharing of information.
this registration information may include, but is not limited to your: e-mail address full name mailing address telephone number date of birth gender publisher partners when you complete a registration or offer form that is hosted by one of our website publisher partners on our behalf, the website publisher partner may submit all or a portion of the information that you submitted on the form to the company.
security there is no such thing as complete security on the internet or otherwise.
government forms the company may be required to create, collect,  maintain, and submit certain information required by the government, such as  irs forms w-9 and 1099.
provided  to you by the company to the extent
other websites have their own terms of use and privacy and security policies.
additionally, we may use pixel tracking technology to track the completion  of transactions with us or our advertisers, the source information for those  transactions, and your ip address, date/time stamp, browser type, and referring  url.
advertisers when you participate in an offer by completing a form, we will transfer the information you submitted on the form to the applicable advertiser.
within the company we may share information we collect with  affiliated companies, including our parent company and other subsidiaries of  our parent company, for use in their ad serving and marketing programs.
offer forms we also collect information about you when you complete a survey or offer form on one of our websites or web pages.
the way it works is simple: once you purchase a product or service from one of our reward advertisers, you will be offered additional products or services that we think may be of interest to you.
in order to track any changes to this privacy policy, we will include a historical reference at the top of this document.
from baked ziti to baked spaghetti, these baked pasta recipes are the perfect low cost meal ideas for any occasion.
limitation of liability you understand and agree that any dispute  over privacy is subject to the terms and conditions of this privacy policy,
this  information includes your internet protocol or "ip" address,  date/time stamp, browser type, and referring url.
if you have registered or submitted  information under more than one e-mail account, you must submit separate  unsubscribe requests for each account.
when you select "yes" next to an offer, we will transfer some or all of the information that you submitted during the website registration process to the applicable advertiser without providing you with another opportunity to review the information.
we pass information about you to these companies so that they can deliver targeted advertisements that they believe will be of interest to you.
marketing partners we may receive information about you, including but not limited to your ip address, e-mail address, first name, last name, mailing address, and telephone number, from third party marketing partners that provide us with consumer data to manage on their behalf.
further, we may use third party service providers to append telephone numbers to other data points we have in our database.
this privacy policy does not pertain to that information.
ad serving companies we may use third party ad networks or ad serving companies to serve advertisements on our websites.
in particular, our intention is to fully comply with the children's  online privacy protection act ("coppa").
google, as a third party vendor, uses cookies to serve ads on our site.
if you are not 18 years of age or older and a valid resident of the united states or you do not agree with the terms of this privacy policy, do not provide us with any information or use any of the products or services offered or provided on company websites or through company technology.
this information may include, but is not limited to: your ip address, e-mail address, name, mailing address, telephone number, date of birth, gender, and payment information; information about your background, interests, health, education, career goals, and shopping preferences; and any other information you provide to our website publisher partner.
we also may share your information with third parties when: (1) trying to protect against or prevent actual or potential fraud or unauthorized transactions; (2) investigating fraud that has already taken place; (3) enforcing or applying existing terms and conditions and/or other agreements; (4) protecting the rights, property or safety of our websites, our users or others; or (5) responding to subpoenas, court orders or legal process, or to establish or exercise our legal rights or defend against legal claims.
gender publisher partners when you complete a registration or offer form  that is hosted by one of our website publisher partners on our behalf, the  website publisher partner may submit all or a portion of the information that  you submitted on the form to the company.
when you answer "yes" or "no" to a marketing or survey  question, some or all of the information that you submitted during the website  registration process will be transferred to advertisers that we believe may be  of interest to you without providing you with another opportunity to review the  information.
he has made this recipe specifically to be healthy as well as delicious.
when you access your personal information or transmit information to us, that information is stored on servers that we have taken steps to protect from unauthorized access or intrusion.
governmental agencies or other companies we may share your information  with law enforcement officials or governmental agencies: (1) in response to  their request; (2) when permitted or required by law; or (3) to establish our  compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, or guidelines.
other affiliated entities  of the company may obtain information independently from transactions and  experiences with you or from other sources.
we also may use third party service providers to validate the data we have in our database.
security there is no such thing as complete security on the internet  or otherwise.
these companies may use and optimize information (not including your name, mailing address, e-mail address, or telephone number) about your visits to this and other websites in order to provide advertisements about goods and services that may be of interest to you.
articles 1 - 10 of 42 >sort by date added (most recent) date added (first to last) category a-z category z-a title a-z title z-a subscribe to our newsletter dedicated to providing the very best healthy meal ideas, cooking tips, healthy recipes & special offers.
please wait register now for free to: log in join us todayforgot password about us advertise contact us faq news privacy policy subscribe terms of service unsubscribe favediets does not provide medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
billy knows a lot about the best macaroni and cheese recipes.
when you answer "yes" or "no" to a marketing or survey question, some or all of the information that you submitted during the website registration process will be transferred to advertisers that we believe may be of interest to you without providing you with another opportunity to review the information.
we  recognize the unique privacy concerns regarding children.
this privacy policy does not apply to affiliated companies and their collection, use and sharing of information.
get your servings of vegetables and whole grains in with this dish, one of the best pasta recipes for a weeknight dinner.
by electing to purchase their product or service you consent to the passing of your data to the third party advertiser in question.
conversely, non-pii is data that is not used to specifically identify, contact or locate an individual, including but not limited to zip code, gender, age, or ip address.
this information pass is done to enhance and simplify your purchasing experience.
how do we share information?
company customer choices marketing communications and unsubscribe information by completing and submitting a company registration form, you are consenting to receive marketing communications from the company and its third party marketing partners.
limitation of liability you understand and agree that any dispute over privacy is subject to the terms and conditions of this privacy policy, as well as the terms and conditions of this website (including limitations on damages).
other websites have their own  terms of use and privacy and security policies.
what information do we collect?
marketing partners we may share, license or sell your information to  third parties for various marketing purposes, including their online (e.g.,  e-mail marketing) and offline (e.g., telemarketing, cell phone text messaging,  skip tracing, and direct mail) marketing programs.
automatic information/digital identifiers we may automatically receive  and store certain types of information about you through the data sources  listed above.
we may share the collected pii and  non-pii for any legally permissible purpose in our sole discretion, including  but not limited to those explained below.
to opt-out of having your information shared with third parties please write to us.
this is a superior spaghetti recipe that neither your nose or taste buds will forget.
for your reference, pii is data collected with an intention to specifically identify, contact or locate a person, including but not limited to name, address, telephone number, or e-mail address.
the information passed to these  companies may include, but is not limited to, your ip address, e-mail address,  name, mailing address, telephone number, date of birth, gender, and any other  information you provide to us.
if you would like to be  removed from these programs write to us.
a cookie is  placed on your computer when your web browser accesses our website.
distribution partners website operators that license our ad serving technology pass information to us so that we may serve advertisements to you.
while we strive to protect your information, the company cannot ensure or warrant the security of any information you transmit to us.
we also use third party advertising companies, such as advertising.com, to serve advertisements when you visit our websites.
right to transfer should the company choose to sell or transfer business assets, it is possible that the information we possess may be transferred as part of that transaction.
we also may use third party service providers  to validate the data we have in our database.
as it relates to marketing communications  or any other questions you might have about our privacy policy, please write to  us at prime publishing, llc, 3400 dundee road, suite 340, northbrook, il   60062.
additionally, this technology may pre-fill some or all of the offers'  data fields with the information you submitted during the website registration  process in order to prevent you from having to re-enter this information.
for a baked macaroni and cheese recipe that friends and family will simply adore, give this cheese-filled recipe a try.
this is one of the tastiest healthy pasta recipes, and it's ready in less than 30 minutes.
in less time than it takes you to watch your favorite sitcom, you have a dinner to be proud of ready to go.
pre-select/pre-fill offers our website technology may pre-select certain offers for you to view based on the demographic and geographic information you submitted to the company during the website registration process.
by submitting your credit card information to us or to one of our advertisers, you are authorizing the company or its agent to periodically verify that your credit card account is valid and has credit available by charging, and thereafter crediting, a small sum to the card.
this privacy policy does not  pertain to that information.
marketing partners we may share, license or sell your information to third parties for various marketing purposes, including their online (e.g., e-mail marketing) and offline (e.g., telemarketing, cell phone text messaging, skip tracing, and direct mail) marketing programs.
this information may include, but is  not limited to: your ip address, e-mail address, name, mailing address,  telephone number, date of birth, gender, and payment information; information  about your background, interests, health, education, career goals, and shopping  preferences; and any other information you provide to our website publisher  partner.
ad serving we may serve advertisements to you based, in part, on your ip address, the demographic and geographic information you submitted to the company during the website registration process, and other socio-economic information, psychographic information, internet behavior (i.e., browsing, search, shopping, purchase, and ad response behavior), and lifestyle information about you that we obtain from affiliated entities and from third parties.
customer service and fulfillment we may use your information to operate the website promotion, service your account and to fulfill rewards earned through company websites.
further, we may  use third party service providers to append telephone numbers to other data  points we have in our database.
web pages that are served by these companies  will state that they are "powered by" or "ads by" the  applicable company and will contain a link to that company's privacy policy.
per coppa guidelines, we do  not knowingly collect pii from children under the age of 13.
email: [ close privacy policy ] privacy policy /
google's use of the dart cookie enables it to serve ads to our users based  on their visit to our sites and other sites on the internet.
customer service  and fulfillment we may use your information to operate the website  promotion, service your account and to fulfill rewards earned through company  websites.
you acknowledge and assume this risk when communicating with the company, its partners and affiliates.
what happens if i hit a link to another site from a company website?
the company may decide to retain a copy of the information post sale or transfer.
this privacy policy applies to all  information collected by or submitted to the company.
with whole grain noodles and broccoli, this easy pasta recipe is far healthier than most other kid friendly dishes.
ad serving we may serve advertisements to you based, in part, on your  ip address, the demographic and geographic information you submitted to the  company during the website registration process, and other socio-economic  information, psychographic information, internet behavior (i.e., browsing,  search, shopping, purchase, and ad response behavior), and lifestyle  information about you that we obtain from affiliated entities and from third  parties.
we may share the collected pii and non-pii for any legally permissible purpose in our sole discretion, including but not limited to those explained below.
if you would like to be removed from these programs write to us.
we  may not show all of the pre-filled data fields to you.
you acknowledge and assume this risk when  communicating with the company, its partners and affiliates.
upsell we utilize customized post transactional or "upsell"  technology to help advertisers generate sales, while providing you with a  series of great offers we think may be of interest to you.
governmental agencies or other companies we may share your information with law enforcement officials or governmental agencies: (1) in response to their request; (2) when permitted or required by law; or (3) to establish our compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations, or guidelines.
your information will only be passed to an advertiser in the post transactional channel after you have elected to purchase their product or service.
when it comes to cheap and quick cooking, no ingredient comes close to pasta.
we use cookies for tracking transactions and the user characteristics explained in detail throughout this privacy policy.
pre-select/pre-fill offers our website technology may pre-select  certain offers for you to view based on the demographic and geographic  information you submitted to the company during the website registration  process.
of course, cookies let you have a more  satisfying website experience, so we recommend that you leave them turned on.
vendors we may share your information with various third party vendors  that are not part of the company, including but not limited to vendors that  provide us with technology to deploy commercial e-mail, vendors that sell the  products or services for which you have qualified through one of our websites,  and shipping companies that we utilize to ship products to you.
we may use third party service  providers to enhance our database with additional elements, including but not  limited to age ranges present in your household, whether you own or rent a  home, the length of time you have lived at your residence, whether you are a  mail order buyer or responder, household income, and gender.
for a healthier update on the classic macaroni and cheese, make this recipe for barilla plus elbows and broccoli bake from barilla pasta.
marketing we may use your information in our online (e.g., e-mail marketing) and offline (e.g., telemarketing, cell phone text messaging, skip tracing, and direct mail) marketing programs.
this recipe for baked macaroni and cheese will have the whole town screaming for joy.
this privacy policy applies to all information collected by or submitted to the company.
this simple pasta recipe with shrimp is overflowing with flavor.
if a parent or guardian is made aware that a child under the age of 13 has provided us with pii through any point of contact, click here to contact us and we will delete the information about the child referenced from our files.
while we strive to  protect your information, the company cannot ensure or warrant the security of  any information you transmit to us.
company customer choices marketing communications and unsubscribe information by completing and  submitting a company registration form, you are consenting to receive marketing  communications from the company and its third party marketing partners.
also, bolognese can still be hearty and filling without the addition of meat.
other affiliated entities of the company may obtain information independently from transactions and experiences with you or from other sources.
for a warm and comforting dinner option, reach for any one of these 13 healthy easy baked pasta recipes.
if a parent or  guardian is made aware that a child under the age of 13 has provided us with  pii through any point of contact, click here to contact us and we will delete  the information about the child referenced from our files.
we may also use your information to verify your identity or claimed account status and, where we consider appropriate, investigate your compliance with the terms and conditions of the website promotion or any advertiser offer.
this privacy policy will tell you, among other things: your california privacy rights.
automatic information/digital identifiers we may automatically receive and store certain types of information about you through the data sources listed above.
see terms of service.
per coppa guidelines, we do not knowingly collect pii from children under the age of 13.
marketing we may use your information in our online (e.g., e-mail  marketing) and offline (e.g., telemarketing, cell phone text messaging, skip  tracing, and direct mail) marketing programs.
by using our website or submitting information to us, you consent to the company's use and sharing of the information collected or submitted as described in this privacy policy.
the company uses various security techniques on our websites to help protect against the loss, misuse or modification of information we've collected from you.
the company uses various security techniques on our websites to  help protect against the loss, misuse or modification of information we've  collected from you.
additionally, we may share, license or sell your information to third  parties for use in their data validation, enhancement, information verification  services, and, to the extent permitted by law, individual reference or look-up  services.
use whole wheat pasta and reduced fat cheese for a lighter take on southern baked macaroni and cheese.
we are committed to carefully protecting privacy where children are involved no matter the point of contact.
by submitting your credit card  information to us or to one of our advertisers, you are authorizing the company  or its agent to periodically verify that your credit card account is valid and  has credit available by charging, and thereafter crediting, a small sum to the  card.
we pass information about  you to these companies so that they can deliver targeted advertisements that  they believe will be of interest to you.
how we may use information.
how do we use this information?
if you elect to purchase products or services from  an advertiser in the post transactional channel, we will pass the information  that you provided during the initial transaction to the subsequent advertiser,  including but not limited to your credit card information.
if you would like to be removed  from these programs please write to us.
we also collect information through our web server applications.
we collect and combine personally identifiable information ("pii") and non-personally identifiable information ("non-pii") through various sources, including those discussed below.
home > pasta articles 1 - 10 of 42 >
create the cheesecake factory's delicious mushroom bolognese at home with this simple cheesecake factory copycat recipe, using wheat pasta for a lower carb option.
request for more information
government forms the company may be required to create, collect, maintain, and submit certain information required by the government, such as irs forms w-9 and 1099.
if you would like more information about this practice and to know your choices  about not having this information used by advertising.com please visit  http://www.advertising.com/privacy_policy_details.php.
application of this privacy policy
we may use third party service providers to enhance our database with additional elements, including but not limited to age ranges present in your household, whether you own or rent a home, the length of time you have lived at your residence, whether you are a mail order buyer or responder, household income, and gender.
www.favediets.com register now!forgot password?email: log inforgot password?public/display name: optional: this is the name that will appear alongside any reviews you create on the site.
if you would like more information about this practice and to know your choices about not having this information used by advertising.com please visit http://www.advertising.com/privacy_policy_details.php.
in all cases, this information is not provided to these entities or persons for marketing purposes.
follow us on facebook get updates from favediets.com posted directly to your news feed.
upsell we utilize customized post transactional or "upsell" technology to help advertisers generate sales, while providing you with a series of great offers we think may be of interest to you.
you agree that the company's liability for any breach of this privacy policy shall be limited to the value of the transactions or services provided to you by the company to the extent
the way it works is  simple: once you purchase a product or service from one of our reward  advertisers, you will be offered additional products or services that we think  may be of interest to you.
marketing partners we may receive information about you, including but  not limited to your ip address, e-mail address, first name, last name, mailing  address, and telephone number, from third party marketing partners that provide  us with consumer data to manage on their behalf.
we do retain customer service correspondence.
enter your email address and we will send your password.
if you choose to visit one of these sites, you should review the policies that govern that particular site.
if, after you have shared your information with the company, you decide that you do not want to receive marketing communications or newsletters from the company and its third party marketing partners, you can discontinue the communications byclicking here and filling out our form.
by  electing to purchase their product or service you consent to the passing of  your data to the third party advertiser in question.
we are committed to  carefully protecting privacy where children are involved no matter the point of  contact.
you may be familiar with the term "cookies," which are unique alphanumeric identifiers that store information on your computer.
you agree that the company's liability for any breach of this privacy  policy shall be limited to the value of the transactions or services
advertisers when you participate in an offer by completing a form, we  will transfer the information you submitted on the form to the applicable  advertiser.
billy know his macaroni!
we may not show all of the pre-filled data fields to you.
this information may include, but is not limited to: your e-mail address, name, mailing address, telephone number, date of birth, gender, and payment information; information about your background, interests, health, education, career goals, and shopping preferences; and any other personal information or unique preference information you provide to us or our advertisers.
if you choose, there are utilities available for purchase from independent software providers to install on your computer as well as tools/preferences you can choose through most web browsers to make website visits anonymous.
additionally, we may share, license or sell your information to third parties for use in their data validation, enhancement, information verification services, and, to the extent permitted by law, individual reference or look-up services.
[ close privacy policy ]
if you choose to visit one of  these sites, you should review the policies that govern that particular site.
your choices regarding the sharing of information.
when you access your personal information or transmit  information to us, that information is stored on servers that we have taken  steps to protect from unauthorized access or intrusion.
additionally, we may use pixel tracking technology to track the completion of transactions with us or our advertisers, the source information for those transactions, and your ip address, date/time stamp, browser type, and referring url.
the information passed may include, but is not limited to, your ip address, e-mail address, name, mailing address, telephone number, date of birth, and gender.
within the company we may share information we collect with affiliated companies, including our parent company and other subsidiaries of our parent company, for use in their ad serving and marketing programs.
prime publishing, llc.
ad serving companies we may use third party ad networks or ad serving  companies to serve advertisements on our websites.
beginning january 1, 2005 under california's "shine the light" law, california residents who provide personal information in obtaining products or services for personal, family or household use are entitled to either: (1) a list detailing the categories of information shared and the entities to which such information was provided; or (2) to be notified of a mechanism by which a consumer may opt-out of having their information shared with third parties.
credit card preauthorization
the information passed to these companies may include, but is not limited to, your ip address, e-mail address, name, mailing address, telephone number, date of birth, gender, and any other information you provide to us.
when you select "yes" next to an offer, we will transfer some or  all of the information that you submitted during the website registration  process to the applicable advertiser without providing you with another  opportunity to review the information.
we may use the collected pii and  non-pii for any legally permissible purpose in our sole discretion, including  but not limited to those explained below.
website registration forms we collect information about you when you register on one of our websites.
we also use third party advertising companies, such as advertising.com, to  serve advertisements when you visit our websites.
these companies may use and  optimize information (not including your name, mailing address, e-mail address,  or telephone number) about your visits to this and other websites in order to  provide advertisements about goods and services that may be of interest to you.
sort by date added (most recent) date added (first to last) category a-z category z-a title a-z title z-a make any one of these 12 low-cal pasta recipes to discover the quick healthy goodness of easy to make pasta dishes.
if you would like to be removed from these programs please write to us.
your  information will only be passed to an advertiser in the post transactional  channel after you have elected to purchase their product or service.
additionally, this technology may pre-fill some or all of the offers' data fields with the information you submitted during the website registration process in order to prevent you from having to re-enter this information.
in all cases, this information is not provided to these entities or persons  for marketing purposes.
users may opt out of the use of the dart cookie by visiting the google ad  and content network privacy policy.
if you choose, there are utilities  available for purchase from independent software providers to install on your  computer as well as tools/preferences you can choose through most web browsers  to make website visits anonymous.
this information, which may include your taxpayer  identification number, will not be used, shared, transferred, or sold for  marketing purposes.
data enhancement/appending/validation
this recipe for barilla whole grain spaghetti with fresh vegetables from barilla is bound to be a new addition to your list of favorite italian dinner recipes because of how light, healthy and flavorful it is.
web pages that are served by these companies will state that they are "powered by" or "ads by" the applicable company and will contain a link to that company's privacy policy.