which is  why we reccomend pairing any of our pastas with a zesty marinara or olive  oil sauce component and …voila!
a carb, full name carbohydrate, is  a component of food used for energy in the body.
we’ve all heard of, and probably tried, the  atkins diet.
mmmmm probably yes……….
well, isn’t this the question of the ages.
notify me of new posts by email.
which is why we reccomend pairing any of our pastas with a zesty marinara or olive oil sauce component and …voila!
not to mention, our pasta is a lot healthier than many other fattening and sugar loaded fundraising options.
contact about us our team blog privacy policy our guarantee shipping faqs site map
that’s right, you  don’t get your energy from that bun less loaded bacon cheeseburger atkins  encouraged you to gorge on, you get more from the fries.
pass up the huge bowl of spaghetti or deep dish pizza and go for some whole wheat pasta dishes.
and for those of you who take extra care, check out our petite pasta  nests….pretty nifty little things with 100 calories a nest.
just like everything else in life, balance is the key.
and for those of you who take extra care, check out our petite pasta nests….pretty nifty little things with 100 calories a nest.
that’s right, you don’t get your energy from that bun less loaded bacon cheeseburger atkins encouraged you to gorge on, you get more from the fries.
our bodies crave pastas, breads and rice because we  need them for our bodies to function properly.
a carb, full name carbohydrate, is a component of food used for energy in the body.
nix the fries and go for a potato.
not to mention all of our pasta has 6 grams or more of protein per serving, and very low sugar!
not to mention, our pasta is a lot healthier  than many other fattening and sugar loaded fundraising options.
you may have heard of net carbs, which are the kind with fiber and lower sugar, like pasta and whole wheat breads!!!
not to  mention all of our pasta has 6 grams or more of protein per serving, and very  low sugar!
even regular white pastas contain a plentiful amount of the  “good carbs”.
they really are delicious, and full of the good-for-you carbs.
so are carbs really bad for you?
it lasted for a complete day, and i was quite proud of myself.
our bodies crave pastas, breads and rice because we need them for our bodies to function properly.
sugar, flour, potatoes….even fruits have been banned in many of these  “miracle” diets.
not only are you getting your energy and fiber, your piling on those vitamins, antioxidants and omega 3’s.
sugar, flour, potatoes….even fruits have been banned in many of these “miracle” diets.
so… what really is a carb, and why do we love (and need) them?
but, it made me feel terrible and truly was not a pleasant  experience.
not only are you getting your energy and  fiber, your piling on those vitamins, antioxidants and omega 3’s.
anna morris name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
it lasted for a complete day, and i was quite proud of  myself.
even regular white pastas contain a plentiful amount of the “good carbs”.
website notify me of follow-up comments by email.
just like everything else  in life, balance is the key.
they come in whole wheat, spinach basil garlic, and tri-color.
they come in  whole wheat, spinach basil garlic, and tri-color.
but, it made me feel terrible and truly was not a pleasant experience.
an objective view from the fun pasta people  themselves
so… what really is  a carb, and why do we love (and need) them?
in recent years,  our friend the carb has been made out to be the bad guy….every time.
they really are delicious,  and full of the good-for-you carbs.
pass up the huge bowl of spaghetti or deep dish pizza and go for some whole  wheat pasta dishes.
in recent years, our friend the carb has been made out to be the bad guy….every time.
the truth about carbs-
hmmm probably not….. last time i checked, you need energy to work out.
hmmm probably not….. last time i checked, you need  energy to work out.
you may have heard of net carbs,  which are the kind with fiber and lower sugar, like pasta and whole wheat  breads!!!
we’ve all heard of, and probably tried, the atkins diet.
these are the kinds to fill up on!