your version looks so fresh and good!
i need to perfect it.
makes: 4 pizzas you will need: - 1 pound ground beef (you may subsitute ground turkey if you like) - 2 tablespoons taco seasoning - 1/4 cup water - 1 (7 3/4) counce can mexican style tomato sauce - 1 (14.5 ounce) can refried beans - 1/4 cup canola oil for frying - 8 small flour tortillas - 1 cup shredded cheddar cheese - 1 cup shredded pepper jack cheese - 2 tomatoes, seeded, diced - 3 green onions, diced - preheat oven on broiler setting.
the pizza is then placed  under the broiler until the cheese melts.
starting with one  crispy tortilla, layer refried beans and seasoned ground beef, then place  another crispy tortilla on top.
a girl exploring her passion for food and cooking one homemade recipe at a time.
posted december 24, 2011 copyright © 2008-2009 life's ambrosia.
- deseree “ i used to get these at taco bell all the time growing up.
thanks for reminding me, yours looks  delicious!
i need to  perfect it.
share with your friends!
but it did not love me or my waistline!!
i’ve totally forgotten how much i love them.
- gaga “ i havent had a mexican pizza in years (i have become a bean burrito girl :) ).
i’m always interested in trying baking instead of frying. ”
if you want to spice things up you can use jalapeno refried beans or maybe  sprinkle some diced chiles on top.
cook the  pizzas under the broiler until the cheese melts, about 2 minutes.
it was those outings that inspired this  crunchy, cheesey mexican pizza recipe.
sprinkle  with cheddar and jack cheeses, diced tomatoes and green onions.
- jillian thank you jillian, bean burritos are good too!
other than that it was good.
follow me on twitter.
i try to recreate things like this at home for that very reason : )
- mary “ i confess i loved taco bells but it did not love me or my waistline!!
next, spoon about 2 tablespoons of the mexican tomato sauce on top, spreading it around with the back of your spoon.
cook the pizzas under the broiler until the cheese melts, about 2 minutes.
your version looks so fresh and good! ”
- deseree “ that looks perfectly delicious! ”
strain to remove any pan  drippings.
have new recipes sent to your email.
- jillian “ you’re welcome gaga!
i’m kinda craving one right now actually…thanks! ”
- meanwhile, heat your refried beans until they are warmed through.
like us on facebook.
- sara you’re welcome
seasoned ground beef and refried beans are layered between two crispy flour tortillas and topped with mexican tomato sauce, 2 cheeses, diced tomatoes and green onions.
- home - recipes - about - recipe box - shopping list - subscribe search mexican pizza add this recipe to ziplist!
i’ve  totally forgotten how much i love them.
website address: (optional) comment: - latest recipes - creamy asparagus bruschetta - pizza egg rolls - salmon with dijon tarragon sauce - creamy avocado pasta with shrimp and bacon - chili rubbed roasted chicken - recipes by course - appetizers and snacks - desserts - drinks - entrees - sauces, dips, and dressings - side dishes - soup and salads - recipes by cuisine - american - asian - breakfast - french - greek - indian - irish - italian - latin american - mexican - pizza - sandwiches - seafood - southern - vegetarian - recipe collections - 4th of july recipes - beef recipes - blender recipes - chicken recipes - healthy recipes - pasta recipes - super bowl recipes read more » about the author
:) ” - gn “ thanks for the comment gn!
ok i’ll admit it, many a time i have enjoyed a mexican pizza at taco bell for “fourth meal”.
other than that it was good. ”
its a toss up for me :) - deseree i made this and tried to bake the shell instead of frying.
i  have stayed away from that for years and years – but now i am inspired to  make a healthier version at home –
the pizza is then placed under the broiler until the cheese melts.
thanks for reminding me, yours looks delicious! ”
exploring my passion for food and cooking one homemade recipe at a time.
fry one tortilla at a time until all are golden brown.
- cathy - wheresmydamnanswer “ lol about the 4th meal.
thanks for the reminder!!
posted march 28, 2012 merry christmas!
i try to recreate things like this at home for  that very reason : )
i’ll work on the meximelt, and perhaps  tackle the crunch wrap supreme :) - deseree that looks perfectly delicious!
thank you jillian, bean burritos are good too!
also, in a seperate pot heat your tomato sauce until it is warmed through.
it was those outings that inspired this crunchy, cheesey mexican pizza recipe.
i have stayed away from that for years and years – but now i am inspired to make a healthier version at home – thanks for the reminder!! ”
in a skillet over medium heat, brown ground beef.
strain to remove any pan drippings.
return to pan and add taco seasoning and water.
reduce heat and simmer 10 minutes.
recent posts introducing recipe box and a giveaway!
makes: 4 pizzas 1 pound ground beef (you may subsitute ground turkey if you like) 2 tablespoons taco seasoning 1 (7 3/4) counce can mexican style tomato sauce 1 (14.5 ounce) can refried beans 1/4 cup canola oil for frying 8 small flour tortillas 1 cup shredded cheddar cheese 1 cup shredded pepper jack cheese 2 tomatoes, seeded, diced 3 green onions, diced preheat oven on broiler setting.
- shannon “ thanks shannon!
thanks for the comment gn!
its a toss up for me :) ” - deseree “ i made this and tried to bake the shell instead of frying.
mexican pizza add this recipe to ziplist!
seasoned ground beef and refried beans  are layered between two crispy flour tortillas and topped with mexican tomato  sauce, 2 cheeses, diced tomatoes and green onions.
- cathy - wheresmydamnanswer lol about the 4th meal.
i’m kinda craving one  right now actually…thanks!
next up, the meximelt!
and thank you for the comment mary!
next, spoon about 2 tablespoons of the mexican  tomato sauce on top, spreading it around with the back of your spoon.
- mary i confess i loved taco bells
also, in  a seperate pot heat your tomato sauce until it is warmed through.
once the meat is brown, the beans and tomato sauce are warmed and the  tortillas are fried, you can start assembling your pizzas.
i’m  always interested in trying baking instead of frying.
(note: i like to layer the finished tortillas between paper towels while i am frying the remaining tortillas) - once the meat is brown, the beans and tomato sauce are warmed and the tortillas are fried, you can start assembling your pizzas.
and thank you for the comment mary! ”
i’ll work on the meximelt, and perhaps tackle the crunch wrap supreme :) ”
lay assembled pizzas on a cookie sheet, depending  on the size of your cookie sheet you may need to do these in batches.
meanwhile, heat your refried beans until they are warmed through.
heat oil over medium-high heat.
responses to "mexican pizza" “ i may have eaten a few of these… thanks for posting this one….
read more » little moments when i'm not in the kitchen, i'm cherishing life's other simple pleasures.
- deseree i used to get these at taco bell all the time growing up.
- shannon thanks shannon!
about 2 minutes per-side.
- gaga i havent had a mexican pizza in years (i have become a bean burrito girl :)  ).
- heat oil over medium-high heat.
- in a skillet over medium heat, brown ground beef.
lay assembled pizzas on a cookie sheet, depending on the size of your cookie sheet you may need to do these in batches.
- sara “ you’re welcome
repeat until you’ve made four pizzas.
fry one tortilla at a time until all are  golden brown.
ok i’ll admit it, many a time i have enjoyed a mexican pizza at taco  bell for “fourth meal”.
repeat until  you’ve made four pizzas.
share with  your friends!
let me know if you perfect baking the shell.
- deseree you’re welcome cathy!
- deseree leave a comment name: email address: (required, but not displayed)
reduce heat and  simmer 10 minutes.
(note: i like to layer the  finished tortillas between paper towels while i am frying the remaining  tortillas)
- deseree “ you’re welcome cathy!
starting with one crispy tortilla, layer refried beans and seasoned ground beef, then place another crispy tortilla on top.
responses to "mexican pizza" i may have eaten a few of these… thanks for posting this  one….
if you want to spice things up you can use jalapeno refried beans or maybe sprinkle some diced chiles on top.
sprinkle with cheddar and jack cheeses, diced tomatoes and green onions.