text and printer version email this to a friend tell us what you think!
• homemade thick-cut chips contain around half the fat of thinner cut chips.
blog comments  powered bydisqus audio version if this is a new article you may need to wait a few minutes for the audio  to be created.
• potatoes are an excellent source of starch, and if eaten with the skins are a good source of fibre.
it is therefore advisable to grill or oven cook chicken.
why not ask for bread, mushy peas or baked beans to fill up and get the balance right?
a skinless chicken shish kebab in a pitta with loads of salad is  lean and filling.
fried in batter though, it can contain a lot of fat.
thinner cut chips usually contain around 15% fat.
the amount of fat your burger contains partly depends on how it's cooked.
pasta is sometimes thought  to be high in fat, but it isn't the pasta, it's the cream sauces that go with  it!
sandwiches and jackets • all brown bread, especially whole meal, is good for you.
sometimes life gets so hectic with studying and socializing that you find  that you have no time to prepare food yourself and so end up eating out or  grabbing food on the run a lot.
more in healthy body
if this is the case choose wisely and opt for healthier fast food options.
sandwiches and jackets • all brown bread, especially whole meal, is good for you.
frying any food in batter or breadcrumbs means it will absorb fat.
fancy fish and chips?
• fish is a healthy option, and with potatoes make a filling  nutritious meal.
why not  ask for bread, mushy peas or baked beans to fill up and get the balance right?
submit an article,  image, video or audio comment on this article tweet facts about fast food things to remember when you're eating out.
the thicker the chip, the less fat it absorbs during the cooking.
company: 384783 spunout is a registered trading name of community creations ltd.
thinner cut  chips usually contain around 15% fat.
• homemade thick-cut chips contain around half the fat of thinner cut  chips.
pizza and pasta • starchy foods like pasta, bread and pizza bases are excellent foods  to fill up on.
if this is the case choose wisely and opt for  healthier fast food options.
• keep fatty baked potato fillings like cheese or sour cream as a treat and when you do have them, try not to have butter as well.
most of the fat in chicken is just beneath the skin; take the skin  off and you also take a lot of the fat off.
grilled burgers can actually be quite lean, but burgers fried will contain a lot more fat.
sometimes life gets so hectic with studying and socializing that you find that you have no time to prepare food yourself and so end up eating out or grabbing food on the run a lot.
• don't forget there are plenty of sandwich fillings which are  healthier choices e.g., lean meats like ham, beef, pork, turkey, chicken tikka,  tuna without mayonnaise, sardines, sliced egg, cottage cheese and edam.
see the help section for contact details of support organisations.
a lot of fat in sandwiches can come from butter, margarine,  mayonnaise, or oil based dressing.
grilled burgers can actually be quite lean, but burgers fried will  contain a lot more fat.
pasta is sometimes thought to be high in fat, but it isn't the pasta, it's the cream sauces that go with it!
for a healthier option tomato based sauces made with vegetables, fish or lean meat are the ones to go for, instead of the butter, cream and cheese based sauces.
what about a burger or kebab? •
the  best advice is probably to eat them and thoroughly enjoy them, just not too  often!
give the chips a miss and you've got a balanced healthy meal.
any coated and deep fried foods will be relatively high in fat.
oven chips are a good option if you're cooking chips at home.
a simple tomato sauce is a traditional low fat pasta topping.
usually they contain less than 5% fat.
most of the fat in chicken is just beneath the skin; take the skin off and you also take a lot of the fat off.
if this is a new article you may need to wait a few minutes for the audio to be created.
• don't forget there are plenty of sandwich fillings which are healthier choices e.g., lean meats like ham, beef, pork, turkey, chicken tikka, tuna without mayonnaise, sardines, sliced egg, cottage cheese and edam.
the amount of fat your burger contains partly depends on how it's  cooked.
they're  more filling, so you'll eat proportionally more base and less topping.
for a  healthier option tomato based sauces made with vegetables, fish or lean meat  are the ones to go for, instead of the butter, cream and cheese based sauces.
skinless chicken is also a healthier choice than coated, deep fried chicken.
the best advice is probably to eat them and thoroughly enjoy them, just not too often!
in restaurants choose grilled skinless chicken served in a bun.
a lot of fat in sandwiches can come from butter, margarine, mayonnaise, or oil based dressing.
content thanks to youthhealthne authors.
• potatoes are an excellent source of starch, and if eaten with the  skins are a good source of fibre.
skinless chicken is  also a healthier choice than coated, deep fried chicken.
• homemade thick cut chips usually contain about 7% fat.
• pasta is good for you, and very filling.
• fish is a healthy option, and with potatoes make a filling nutritious meal.
a skinless chicken shish kebab in a pitta with loads of salad is lean and filling.
add  plenty of salad to get the balance right.
they're more filling, so you'll eat proportionally more base and less topping.
add plenty of salad to get the balance right.
©2012 community creations ltd.
pizza and pasta • starchy foods like pasta, bread and pizza bases are excellent foods to fill up on.
thick crust pizza's are healthier than thin crust pizza's.
please enable javascript to view thecomments powered by disqus.
• keep fatty baked potato fillings like cheese or sour cream as a  treat and when you do have them, try not to have butter as well.