do your heart and belly a favor by asking for half the meat and double the vegetables even in your stir-fry.
instead of a full meal, order salad and a healthy appetizer such as: shrimp  cocktail; thai summer rolls; chicken satays; sushi; steamed vegetable  dumplings; and pizza ("light on the cheese").
order grilled chicken instead of fried on the salad; bean soup rather than refried beans.
your morning mocha coffee contains more than 300 calories?
dr. jo helps busy people stay healthy, sane, and productive through her books, articles, media appearances, and speaking engagements.
perhaps "miss manners" would  object, but she doesn't have to fit into your jeans, so: trim off the visible fat on the meat pull off the chicken skin.
get the doggie bag with dinner and immediately put away half your meal.
order canadian bacon or ham instead of bacon or sausage.
since every tablespoon of mayonnaise, dressing, butter, and oil contains  100 calories, ask for them "on the side" so you can "dip and  stab".
since juice has the same number of calories as soda, order fresh fruit  instead.
scrape off the breading or excess sauce and drain off the excess butter or oil.
business travelers eat all of their meals in restaurants.
if you eat just 10 calories more than your body needs, you'll put on a  pound of fat each year.
scrape off the breading or excess sauce and drain off the excess butter or  oil.
if you eat just 10 calories more than your body needs, you'll put on a pound of fat each year.
get the  appetizer portion.
instead of a full meal, order salad and a healthy appetizer such as: shrimp cocktail; thai summer rolls; chicken satays; sushi; steamed vegetable dumplings; and pizza ("light on the cheese").
did you know that: a large cinnamon roll has over 800 calories and more than a half a stick of butter?
dr. jo helps busy people stay healthy, sane, and productive through her  books, articles, media appearances, and speaking engagements.
she has presented  more than 1000 programs to companies and conventions.
ask the kitchen not to brush your fajitas, steak, chicken or fish with butter.
then leave the box behind.
many restaurants can accommodate  — even if it's not on the menu.
order grilled chicken instead of fried on the salad; bean soup rather than  refried beans.
since every tablespoon of mayonnaise, dressing, butter, and oil contains 100 calories, ask for them "on the side" so you can "dip and stab".
special order a healthier (low fat/calorie, vegetarian or fruit plate)
ask for a luncheon or appetizer portion.
since juice has the same number of calories as soda, order fresh fruit instead.
dr. jo has written four books including: dining lean, how to stay healthy & fit on the road, and dr jo's no big deal diet.
while the calories in sugar and cream aren't much per teaspoon, it all adds up!
for example: for an extra 100 calories, choose from: 1 tablespoon mayonnaise or salad dressing, 1 cheese slice; 2 strips bacon; sautéed mushrooms; sliced avocado, 1 large onion ring; 7 potato puffs; 10 regular fries or 20 skinny french fries.
dr. jo has written four  books including: dining lean, how to stay healthy & fit on the road, and dr  jo's no big deal diet.
here are some tips to  eat healthy in restaurants: 1.
think of calories as the  "price" you'll have to pay (on your waist).
one "loaded" nacho has more than 100 calories?
not only are you paying for the meal, you have to wear the excess calories.
more information -- www.drjo.com
pat the pizza with a paper napkin to remove some of the grease.
but large meals and fatty foods don't have to spell nutritional disaster.
many meals can be made healthier just by cutting out some of the "extras".
but large meals  and fatty foods don't have to spell nutritional disaster.
airline meal and give more than 24-hour notice.
healthy dining guide for business travelers by dr. jo lichten sesame glazed salmon chops at  seasons 52 in orlando, a restaurant that prides itself on healthy dishes.
do your heart and belly a favor by asking for half the meat and double the  vegetables — even in your stir-fry.
click here for more information.
ask for your pizza to be prepared "light" on the cheese.
make leaner substitutions.
more information -- www.drjo.com contact us  | privacy policy  | advertise  | rtm press kit  | auto & travel  expert | site map | free newsletter | back issues | about us copyright ©2012 - 2015 : road & travel magazine.
they make you eat slower, so you eat less.
her web site iswww.drjo.com.
control your portions.
make miss manners mad.
a large fountain drink has 300 calories?
check the "price" tag.
if you really want cream sauce, ask them to use half the usual amount for a lighter, still flavorful pasta.
take a slice of bread and then give the basket back to the server.
while the calories in sugar and cream aren't much per teaspoon, it all adds  up!
request pasta with tomato sauce instead of cream.
since it's hard not to eat everything  that's served, try these ideas: order a la carte or just tell them what you want (i.e. two enchiladas  instead of three).
for example: for an extra 100 calories, choose from: 1 tablespoon mayonnaise or salad  dressing, 1 cheese slice; 2 strips bacon; sautéed mushrooms; sliced  avocado, 1 large onion ring; 7 potato puffs; 10 regular fries or 20 skinny  french fries.
in addition to skinless chicken and fish, choose from leaner cuts of beef (sirloin, filet, london broil, new york) or pork tenderloin.
if you really want cream  sauce, ask them to use half the usual amount for a lighter, still flavorful  pasta.
beware of the extras.
here are some tips to eat healthy in restaurants: 1.
ask the kitchen not to brush your fajitas, steak, chicken or fish with  butter.
special order a healthier (low fat/calorie, vegetarian or fruit plate) airline meal and give more than 24-hour notice.
to eliminate the temptation to keep nibbling when you've had enough, salt the rest of your dinner heavily or pour on the hot sauce.
ask for egg substitutes; they're just one-third the calories of eggs.
not only are you paying for the meal, you  have to wear the excess calories.
think of calories as the "price" you'll have to pay (on your waist).
want eggplant parmigiana?
many meals can be made healthier just by  cutting out some of the "extras".
so ask for it your way:
many restaurants can accommodate even if it's not on the menu.
get the appetizer portion.
did you know that: a large cinnamon roll has over 800 calories and more than a half a stick of  butter?
since it's hard not to eat everything that's served, try these ideas: order a la carte or just tell them what you want (i.e. two enchiladas instead of three).
auto advice & tips auto products auto buyer's guides car care & maintenance car of the year awards earth, wind & power awards insurance & accidents legends & leaders new car reviews news & views planet driven road humor road trips safety & security teens & tots used car buying vehicle model guides vehicle safety ratings what women want business travelers eat all of their meals in restaurants.
to eliminate the temptation to keep nibbling when you've had enough, salt  the rest of your dinner heavily or pour on the hot sauce.
she has presented more than 1000 programs to companies and conventions.
perhaps "miss manners" would object, but she doesn't have to fit into your jeans, so: trim off the visible fat on the meat pull off the chicken skin.
in addition to skinless chicken and fish, choose from leaner cuts of beef  (sirloin, filet, london broil, new york) or pork tenderloin.