it’s an incentive that will, hopefully, help to change the face of school foodservice.
for years, media has been abuzz about obesity, particularly childhood obesity, pointing to culprits like high-fructose corn syrup (and added sugars in general), video games, lack of exercise, poor diets, changing family dynamics and insufficient funding for school lunch programs.
it’s said that every cloud has a silver lining, and the new focus on  nutrition is that silver lining in the childhood obesity cloud that threatens  the future of our next generation.
a serving of fruit be offered daily at breakfast and lunch, and that two servings of vegetables be offered daily at lunch.
mg per meal  to approximately 740 mg, with slightly lower levels for younger children.
it won’t be an easy challenge to meet, but when the number of meals served is factored in, 2% can be a significant amount of money.
copyright © 2012 virgo publishing, llc.
the usda also launched a new healthy eating symbol,  “choose my plate," to replace the food pyramid, which most found too  complicated.
and one of the most-important developments this year has been the introduction of the 2010 dietary guidelines for americans, which have an increased focus on obesity.
the usda also launched a new healthy eating symbol, “choose my plate," to replace the food pyramid, which most found too complicated.
once fully enacted, if schools follow the new  requirements they will get an increase of six cents per meal, which amounts to  a little more than 2%.
• minimize trans fats, and reduce total saturated fat to less than 10% per meal.
•  decrease starchy vegetables, such as white potatoes, corn,  peas and lima beans, to one cup per week.
•  increase legumes and dark-green or orange vegetables to 1 to 2  cups per week.
and one of the most-important developments this year has been the  introduction of the 2010 dietary guidelines for americans, which have an  increased focus on obesity.
•  increase grains from 1.5 to 2 servings per day, with at least  half being whole grains.
•  include one cup of flavored or unflavored, fat-free milk, or  unflavored 1% milk.
for lunch, that means 550 to 650 calories for kindergarten through 5th grade; 600 to 700 for grades 6 through 8; and 750 to 850 for grades 9 through 12.
• include one cup of flavored or unflavored, fat-free milk, or unflavored 1% milk.
•  a serving of fruit be offered daily at breakfast and lunch,  and that two servings of vegetables be offered daily at lunch.
elegantly simple, it graphically shows that the largest part of our diet should be vegetables and grains, with smaller proportions of meat, fruit and dairy.
it’s an incentive that will, hopefully, help to change the face  of school foodservice.
in fact, all of  these factors are involved.
• serve 1.5 to 2.5 oz. of meat or meat alternative per meal.
her “chefs move to  schools" program, in which chicago’s kendall college participates,  brings chefs together to adopt schools and work with teachers, parents, school  nutritionists and administrators to educate children and show that nutrition  can be fun.
once fully enacted, directives include: • minimum and maximum calories are established.
according to the centers for disease control  and prevention (cdc), childhood obesity has more than tripled in the last 30  years.
according to the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc), childhood obesity has more than tripled in the last 30 years.
get the latest media snap food product design content library text foodproduct to 41411 to receive this media snap on your smart phone all material on this site
in fact, all of these factors are involved.
the new standards are also reflected in the “healthy, hunger-free kids act of 2010" ( whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/child_nutrition_fact_sheet_12_10_10.pdf) which mandates new school-meal plans designed to meet the nutrition needs of the nearly 32 million children who take part in lunch and breakfast programs.
schools currently receive $2.72 from the federal government for each child  on the free-lunch program.
for lunch, that  means 550 to 650 calories for kindergarten through 5th grade; 600 to 700 for  grades 6 through 8; and 750 to 850 for grades 9 through 12.
once fully enacted, if schools follow the new requirements they will get an increase of six cents per meal, which amounts to a little more than 2%.
the new standards are also reflected in the “healthy, hunger-free  kids act of 2010" ( whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/child_nutrition_fact_sheet_12_10_10.pdf)  which mandates new school-meal plans designed to meet the nutrition needs of  the nearly 32 million children who take part in lunch and breakfast programs.
for years, media has been abuzz about obesity, particularly childhood  obesity, pointing to culprits like high-fructose corn syrup (and added sugars  in general), video games, lack of exercise, poor diets, changing family  dynamics and insufficient funding for school lunch programs.
by renee zonka, mba, rd, cec, che, contributing editor it’s said that every cloud has a silver lining, and the new focus on nutrition is that silver lining in the childhood obesity cloud that threatens the future of our next generation.
• decrease sodium, over the next 10 years, from 1600 mg per meal to approximately 740 mg, with slightly lower levels for younger children.
•  minimize trans fats, and reduce total saturated fat  to less than 10% per meal.
« previous 1 2 3 next » e-mail
once fully enacted, directives include: •  minimum and maximum calories are established.
•  decrease sodium, over the next 10 years, from 1600
•  serve 1.5 to 2.5 oz. of meat or meat alternative per meal.
her multi-pronged childhood obesity action plan, introduced in  2010, calls on the food and foodservice industries to produce healthier foods  for children instead of the nutritionally empty, calorie-laden choices that  tend to dominate today’s marketplace.
increase legumes and dark-green or orange vegetables to 1 to 2 cups per week.
elegantly simple, it graphically shows that the largest part of  our diet should be vegetables and grains, with smaller proportions of meat,  fruit and dairy.
it won’t be an easy challenge to meet, but  when the number of meals served is factored in, 2% can be a significant amount  of money.
however, the catalyst that has turned talk into action has been first lady michelle obama.
a chef’s guide to healthier, kid-friendly foods july 28, 2011 comments posted in articles, analogue, bakery,  beverages, bread, breakfast, business, calorie, centers for disease control and  prevention (cdc), cheese, chefs, children, conagra, consumer preference,  culinary, dairy, dairy ingredients, demographic, diet, ethnic, flavor,  foodservice, frozen foods, fruit, grains, healthy foods, low fat, low salt, low  sodium, lowfat milk, market trends, meat products, menu, milk, nutrition,  obesity, packaged facts, pasta, pizza, regulatory, restaurant, retail, rice,  salad, salt, saturated fats, sauces, sodium, seasonings, spices, sustainability, sweeteners, trans fats, us department of agriculture (usda), vegetable, bakery  / cereal, frozen / refrigerated foods, fruits / vegetables, grains / pasta /  tuber, sauces / gravies / soup, seasonings / spices print by renee zonka, mba, rd, cec, che, contributing editor
• decrease starchy vegetables, such as white potatoes, corn, peas and lima beans, to one cup per week.
unless that is reversed, the children today might be the first to  experience a lower life expectancy than their parents.
her “chefs move to schools" program, in which chicago’s kendall college participates, brings chefs together to adopt schools and work with teachers, parents, school nutritionists and administrators to educate children and show that nutrition can be fun.
her multi-pronged childhood obesity action plan, introduced in 2010, calls on the food and foodservice industries to produce healthier foods for children instead of the nutritionally empty, calorie-laden choices that tend to dominate today’s marketplace.
• increase grains from 1.5 to 2 servings per day, with at least half being whole grains.
unless that is reversed, the children today might be the first to experience a lower life expectancy than their parents.
however, the catalyst that has turned talk into action has been first lady  michelle obama.
schools currently receive $2.72 from the federal government for each child on the free-lunch program.