- how well do you understand cholesterol?
i thought to call an ambulance,  but he just wanted to lie down in his room.
are you  confused about diabetes?
my grandfather was born in  naples and had pasta once a day – sometimes 2-3 times a day.
in the united states  alone, 23.6 million people have diabetes.
plus, the former “law & order” cop was used to playing it tough.
next: what mira cut out of her family's diet... next: what mira has learned from paul's diagnosis...
at first, though, he was afraid people would regard him as  feeble.
i love to run -- it’s my favorite exercise.
daily horoscope explore your destiny as you discover what's written in your stars.
mira sorvino with her father, paul mira sorvino with her father, paul mira sorvino with her father, paul mira sorvino with her father, paul mira sorvino with her father, paul mira sorvino with her father, paul related stories - all honeys affect blood sugar the same - best diabetes prevention tip: lose weight - dealing with tempting foods - are you a chocoholic?
about 20 minutes after he enjoyed a generous helping, he turned a purple-ashen color, looked down and slumped forward in his chair.
i’ve always led a healthy lifestyle and been active, so it didn’t spark many lifestyle changes.
test your knowledge with ourdiabetes quiz.
i encourage him to exercise  more too.
i took pills, and i think it’s getting better.”
to make dietary changes easier for diabetics who enjoy  pasta, he hopes to produce a low-carb version with his company [paul sorvino  foods].
an expert answers your questions having trouble catching your breath?
onlifescript 11 tips to lower cholesterol
in this lifescript  exclusive, mira sorvino reveals what she’s doing to keep her pasta-loving  father healthy and cut the odds that she – or her three kids – will  develop diabetes.
he saw his doctor for something unrelated and the physician took a blood test that showed his blood sugar was in the 420s.
and i always work out because being in shape is part of my job description.
so when paul, 71, a veteran  character actor who plays tough guys, was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes, it  was only natural for mira, 43, to make this a family affair too.
so we’re cutting out  some unhealthy foods like macaroni and cheese when we eat out.
when i was  growing up, he wouldn’t come to our house for thanksgiving unless there  was a pasta dish too.
the role of caretaker came easily to mira, who won an academy award for best supporting actress in “mighty aphrodite.”
share it with your friends (it’s free to sign up!), and bookmark it so you don’t miss a single juicy post!
getting winded just walking the dog?
even more significant is that he cooks low-carb pasta  and eats less of it than before.
it was quite frightening.
but i think you fail to consider that  it can actually happen to you, or your loved one, until a confirmed diagnosis.
i’m trying to switch the kids to eating more fruits and yogurt versus those sugary things.
what are you teaching  your kids about diabetes?
all women's health news - diet soda tied to heart attack, stroke risks - men opting for costly new prostate cancer treatment - study finds one percent of human genes switched off - one in 10 u.s. kids have alcoholic parent: study - foods that relieve severe pms symptoms - symptoms of fibromyalgia in women - 13 ways to prevent diabetes - 10 life-saving breast cancer facts - arthritis diet: 10 foods that help and hurt connect with lifescript follow us on facebook, twitter, and our healthbistro blog healthy advantage
how did he find out?
from:  to:  message: please enter a valid  email.
i also try to get him to eat more healthfully, which is tough on him.
first, they see what we’re doing for grandpa and know he can’t eat certain things.
thanks to diet, exercise and medicine, he’s doing great.
today's sponsored links today
we’ve all learned that you can be a happy, healthy person despite diabetes – that you can be empowered by taking control over your blood sugar levels.
what were your father’s symptoms before his diagnosis?
i serve him huge  salads, not big bowls of pasta or fried foods.
now when he’s at my house, we walk on the beach.
healthy appetite healthy food that tastes delicious too?
is there a family history of diabetes?
read more signs of copd?
manage my newsletters | about us | site map | rss | find a doctor / news / quizzes / tools / experts - - health centers - a-z reference - top conditions - natural health - everyday care - family health - calendar - news - - find a diet or exercise - diet & fitness a-z - diet center - fitness center - diet & fitness rx - experts - - healthy recipes - healthy eating guides - food 411 - food quizzes - food experts - find a nutritionist - - relationships - sex - family - money - timeout - looks - style - - { health centers } - adhd - adhd adult - adhd child - allergies - alzheimer's - arthritis - asthma - autoimmune disorders - bipolar disorder - birth control - bone cancer - breast cancer - cancer - cervical cancer - chemotherapy - cholesterol - cold and flu - colon cancer - copd - crohn's disease - dental health - depression - diabetes - type 1 diabetes - type 2 diabetes - digestive health - eczema - fibromyalgia - headache and migraine - health care & you - heart attack - heart health - heartburn/gerd - hyperhidrosis - hypertension - kids' health - lupus - menopause - mental health - migraine - multiple myeloma - multiple sclerosis - oab - obesity - osteoarthritis - osteoporosis - ovarian cancer - overactive bladder - pain - pregnancy - pregnancy conditions - psoriasis - psoriatic arthritis - respiratory health - restless legs syndrome - rheumatoid arthritis - skin - skin cancer - sleep - smoking cessation - stroke - ulcerative colitis - vaccines - vision - women's health - yeast infections - a-z reference - conditions - treatments - drugs a-z - alternative therapies - top conditions - natural health - everyday care - family health - calendar - news - home » - health » - health centers » - diabetes patient guide diabetes health home related conditions - diabetes type 1 - diabetes type 2 - diabetic foot ulcer - diabetic neuropathy - diabetic retinopathy - gestational diabetes - depression - heart health - hypertension - kidney disease - metabolic syndrome - obesity - peripheral artery disease (pad) - stroke news & information - news - articles - tips - clinical trials resources - doctor finder - your health team - questions for your doctor - expert q&a - get support - health calendar - diabetes eating guide health tools - health quizzes - health calculators health care & you - your rights -
the way he has handled this [diagnosis] is brave and admirable.
i always compensated by burning it off through exercising, but seeing my father and uncle live with diabetes made me realize that wasn’t enough.
at first, the day-to-day maintenance overwhelmed him, and he kept his diagnosis a secret.
they also understand that taking walks on the beach and playing tennis with grandpa keeps their bodies healthy.
next page >> take a poll vote next poll see all polls top-rated quizzes - do you take heart medications and supplements to lower your ldl cholesterol?
- what's your yoga iq?
how did you discover he was diabetic?
- how do you get your daily dose of vitamin d? - {3ba54f8e-b6d3-4e21-9ac6-ad5ac3f66534} - how much do you know about alzheimer’s disease?
your lungs may be sending you a signal.
what have you learned from your father’s diabetes?
and i  always work out because being in shape is part of my job description.
i realized diabetes was serious, yet
dad is a wonderful cook and had made this delicious pastafagioli, a traditional italian dish with pasta and beans.
navigating the system - insurance coverage - health care news popular health centers see all health → - adhd adult - adhd child - breast cancer - cold and flu - depression - diabetes - digestive health - fibromyalgia - heartburn - menopause - mental health - obesity - osteoporosis - pregnancy - respiratory health - rheumatoid arthritis - skin health - sleep centers healthy eating guides see all healthy → - diabetes - healthy recipes - heart healthy - low fat - low sodium eating guides diabetes health center learn more about diabetes health mira sorvino: diabetes is a family affair by gina roberts-grey, special to lifescript published october 20, 2010 comments rate (votes: 34) - currently 3/5 stars.
now it [holds] sugar-free, low-fat options.
he doesn’t eat sugar anymore, which was a big change.
in this lifescript exclusive, mira sorvino reveals what she’s doing to keep her pasta-loving father healthy and cut the odds that she – or her three kids – will develop diabetes.
that’s why i wanted to become involved in his health.
about 20 minutes after he enjoyed a generous helping, he turned a purple-ashen  color, looked down and slumped forward in his chair.
it was  quite frightening.
now i realize the  importance of cutting down on those things.
thanks to diet,  exercise and medicine, he’s doing great.
[of diabetes] though.
check outhealth bistro for more healthy food for thought.
[mira is  married to actor christopher backus, and they have three children: mattea, 6;  johnny, 4; and holden, 1.] dad is a wonderful cook and had made this  delicious pastafagioli, a traditional italian dish with pasta and beans.
- are you ready to lose weight?
what did he do after finding out?
“i wanted to be equipped with  the right tools to help keep him on track with his treatment.”
how to lower blood sugar
i was instantly worried.
mira sorvino with her father, paul  mira  sorvino with her father, paul  mira sorvino with her father, paul  mira sorvino  with her father, paul  mira sorvino with her father, paul  mira sorvino with  her father, paul    related stories all honeys affect blood sugar the same best diabetes prevention tip:
- how to lower blood sugar
he’s from a generation where men were  tough guys brought up to be john wayne.
read more add comment advertisement advertisement find a doctor - by specialty - by state - by doctor's name - by insurance - by symptom/condition today's top clicks on lifescript most popular top news see
finally, he said he was and told me: “i think it was the diabetes.
how has your dad’s diagnosis spurred you to make  changes to ward off diabetes?
they also understand that taking walks on the beach and  playing tennis with grandpa keeps their bodies healthy.
i needed to modify my sugar intake and set a healthy example for my kids.
i asked him, “what’s going on?”
this week's stories heart health top cardiologists' heart tips workout cardio fitness guide skin natural skin savers soul pain and opportunity inspire 2 real-life heroes news
unfortunately, misinformation about diabetes is rampant –  and mixing up the facts about this disease can have dire consequences.
he didn’t want to “burden” mira and her siblings, the actress  says.
what were your father’s symptoms  before his diagnosis?
share it with your  friends (it’s free to sign up!), and bookmark it so you don’t miss  a single juicy post!
he didn’t completely  follow his doctor’s advice, but didn’t completely ignore it either.
lifescript site map health diet & fitness - health centers - a-z reference - top conditions - everyday care - natural health - family health - calendar - news food - diet & fitness a-z - diet center - fitness center - diet & fitness rx - diet & fitness experts life - healthy eating guides - healthy recipes - food quizzes - find a nutritionist soul healthy tools - family - money - relationships - sex - timeout lifescript healthy solutions content in these special sections is created on behalf of our advertising partners - doctor finder - experts - quizzes - recipes - tools living with asthma take a breath take in life managing your high cholesterol copyright © 1999 - 2012 - www.lifescript.com - all rights reserved - about lifescript - contact us - privacy policy - - terms of use - spam policy - products - advertise
he actually looks younger than  he did a few years ago.
- how often do you perform a breast self-exam?
and 5.6 million of them don’t even know it.
but i  made some significant dietary changes.
i asked him, “what’s going  on?”
at first, though, he was afraid people would regard him as feeble.
at first,  the day-to-day maintenance overwhelmed him, and he kept his diagnosis a secret.
instead, i’ll make a healthier version at home by mixing eggs into hot pasta and use the heat of pasta to cook the egg with a tiny bit of low-fat cheddar and butter.
ironically, i don’t  think of this knowledge as a burden.
now i realize the importance of cutting down on those things.
they’re starting to understand some foods might not be healthy.
acting is a  family business for paul and daughter mira sorvino.
- 1 - 2 - 3 - 4 - 5 previous next share tweet
is his diabetes under control now?
to make dietary changes easier for diabetics who enjoy pasta, he hopes to produce a low-carb version with his company [paul sorvino foods].
he didn’t completely follow his doctor’s advice, but didn’t completely ignore it either.
my grandfather was born in naples and had pasta once a day – sometimes 2-3 times a day.
talk to us on facebook and twitter!
being italian and eating pasta is important for our family; it’s a way of life.
plus, the former “law & order” cop was used to playing it  tough.
it afflicts nearly 24 million americans, including 11.5 million women.
acting is a family business for paul and daughter mira sorvino.
i encourage him to exercise more too.
even more significant is that he cooks low-carb pasta and eats less of it than before.
sugar is everywhere you turn… ice cream and cupcake stores.
unfortunately, misinformation about diabetes is rampant – and mixing up the facts about this disease can have dire consequences.
i know family and friends are often clueless about what diabetes is and how to help.
he has always played tennis, but i urge him to do more than that.
in the united states alone, 23.6 million people have diabetes.
he saw his doctor  for something unrelated and the physician took a blood test that showed his  blood sugar was in the 420s.
when his original treatment wasn’t working, i encouraged him to talk  to the doctor and try new medicines.
like my uncle, who also has diabetes and lost a lot of weight to [treat] his diabetes and [boost] cardiac health, my father is improving his health.
he didn’t want to “burden” mira and her siblings, the actress says.
my father’s brother has it.
but i made some significant dietary changes.
invalid email address!
we’ve all learned  that you can be a happy, healthy person despite diabetes – that you can  be empowered by taking control over your blood sugar levels.
after that health scare, what went through your head?
plus, are you on the road to a heart attack?
please enter a valid email.
learn which foods and supplements to stock up on and how exercise can boost good levels.
“after my  dad was diagnosed, i realized i had to educate myself about his  condition,” says sorvino, who also charmed moviegoers in “romy and  michele’s high school reunion.”
daily reflections we could all use some encouragement now and then - we're human!
first, they see what we’re doing for  grandpa and know he can’t eat certain things.
he’s from a generation where men were tough guys brought up to be john wayne.
but i think you fail to consider that it can actually happen to you, or your loved one, until a confirmed diagnosis.
i serve him huge salads, not big bowls of pasta or fried foods.
like many diabetics, paul initially  controlled blood-sugar levels by lowering carbohydrate and sugar intake,  exercising, losing weight and taking prescription medicine.
please use the form  below to email this article.
like many diabetics, paul initially controlled blood-sugar levels by lowering carbohydrate and sugar intake, exercising, losing weight and taking prescription medicine.
plus, what's your inflammation iq?
i  realized diabetes was serious, yet
- 1 - 2 - 3 - 4 - 5 comments next: how mira reacted to the diagnosis...
i thought to call an ambulance,
has your father made other dietary changes?
we were eating too much sugar.
that’s not easy with a dad who enjoys hearty italian meals and produces  pasta sauces for supermarkets.
see what lifescript editors are talking about and get the skinny on latest news.
naturally when oscar-winning actress mira sorvino learned her  father had type 2 diabetes, she took quick action.
in this lifescript  exclusive, find out how she helped improve her dad’s health and lowered  her children’s risk of the chronic disease...
has your  father made other dietary changes?
he was very tired, thirsty and had a general  malaise.
that’s why the father-daughter duo launched the “diabetes co-stars” awareness program, which aims to encourage relatives and friends to support those with the disease.
diabetes  is something that affects the whole family, not just the person diagnosed with  it.
and 5.6 million of them don’t  even know it.
in college, i  was on the crew team.
that’s why the father-daughter duo launched the  “diabetes co-stars” awareness program, which aims to encourage  relatives and friends to support those with the disease.
he actually looks younger than he did a few years ago.
the #1 daily resource for health and lifestyle news!
i don’t eat a lot of pasta and pizza either, but i overdose on breads and sweets.
when i was growing up, he wouldn’t come to our house for thanksgiving unless there was a pasta dish too.
certain foods - some of your favorites, like steak and cookies - may be causing flare-ups.
they’re starting to  understand some foods might not be healthy.
what are you teaching your kids about diabetes?
the  role of caretaker came easily to mira, who won an academy award for best  supporting actress in “mighty aphrodite.”
ironically, i don’t think of this knowledge as a burden.
how has your dad’s diagnosis spurred you to make changes to ward off diabetes?
- what is your hair color personality?
brain shocks enhance memory quizzes
now  when he’s at my house, we walk on the beach.
i want to support and encourage him to take care of himself.
“i wanted to be equipped with the right tools to help keep him on track with his treatment.”
i stood vigil outside the door for about 20 minutes, repeatedly asking, “are you ok?”
he was very tired, thirsty and had a general malaise.
he actually kept the diagnosis secret for a few months.
see what lifescript  editors are talking about and get the skinny on latest news.
like my uncle, who also has diabetes and lost a lot of  weight to [treat] his diabetes and [boost] cardiac health, my father is  improving his health.
i used to stock the freezer with ice cream  to accompany cake.
the way he has handled this [diagnosis] is brave  and admirable.
in college, i was on the crew team.
so what's your next step in reducing your risk of heart disease before turning to medication?
i also try to get him to eat more  healthfully, which is tough on him.
i’ve always led a healthy lifestyle  and been active, so it didn’t spark many lifestyle changes.
it afflicts  nearly 24 million americans, including 11.5 million women.
please use the form below to email this article.
we’ve made [managing it together] a positive in all our lives.
that’s why i wanted to become involved  in his health.
i was at my father’s house recuperating from having a new baby and trying to avoid the flu that the rest of my family had.
lose weight dealing with tempting foods are you a chocoholic?
living with diabetes the latest news, tips and recipes for people with diabetes.
so cutting back and going low-carb was a very big step for my dad.
so when paul, 71, a veteran character actor who plays tough guys, was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes, it was only natural for mira, 43, to make this a family affair too.
but he just wanted to lie down in his room.
he ignored them  for quite a while.
your doctor has told you to lower cholesterol.
are you confused about diabetes?
how much do you know about diabetes?
rate this article (votes: 34) (avg: 3.06) - currently 3/5 stars.
diabetes is something that affects the whole family, not just the person diagnosed with it.
take our quiz to find out...
i was at my father’s house recuperating from having a  new baby and trying to avoid the flu that the rest of my family had.
i needed to modify my sugar intake and set a  healthy example for my kids.
what are you doing to support your father?
your daily resource for losing weight and staying fit.
and he said he didn’t know.
we don’t drink sugar soda.
why had  he kept it from you?
he actually kept the  diagnosis secret for a few months.
i stood vigil outside the  door for about 20 minutes, repeatedly asking, “are you ok?”
i don’t eat a lot of  pasta and pizza either, but i overdose on breads and sweets.
i took  pills, and i think it’s getting better.”
diet and lifestyle changes, experts say.
- what's the one beauty product you never leave home without?
i always compensated by burning it off  through exercising, but seeing my father and uncle live with diabetes made me  realize that wasn’t enough.
[normally, this level should be between 70-150.]
from: to: message: please enter a valid email.
when his original treatment wasn’t working, i encouraged him to talk to the doctor and try new medicines.
“after my dad was diagnosed, i realized i had to educate myself about his condition,” says sorvino, who also charmed moviegoers in “romy and michele’s high school reunion.”
[mira is married to actor christopher backus, and they have three children: mattea, 6; johnny, 4; and holden, 1.]
what's your sodium iq?
what have you  learned from your father’s diabetes?
naturally when oscar-winning actress mira sorvino learned her father had type 2 diabetes, she took quick action.
get a pulmonologist’s perspective on spotting the early warning symptoms of copd and what to do to keep your lungs healthy at any age.
instead,  i’ll make a healthier version at home by mixing eggs into hot pasta and  use the heat of pasta to cook the egg with a tiny bit of low-fat cheddar and  butter.
read more foods that trigger rheumatoid arthritis flare-ups do restaurant meals and snack attacks leave you with rheumatoid arthritis aches and pains?
he doesn’t eat sugar anymore,  which was a big change.
being italian and eating pasta is  important for our family; it’s a way of life.
i’m  trying to switch the kids to eating more fruits and yogurt versus those sugary  things.
i had no knowledge about it or how to make sure my dad was safe and healthy.
i know family and friends are often clueless about what diabetes  is and how to help.
he ignored them for quite a while.
why had he kept it from you?
no one knew these were symptoms
- what’s the worst setback you’ve had to overcome?
so cutting back and going low-carb was a very  big step for my dad.
find out what you should stay away from and how to pick tasty substitutes.
so we’re cutting out some unhealthy foods like macaroni and cheese when we eat out.
i had no knowledge about it or how to make  sure my dad was safe and healthy.
i used to stock the freezer with ice cream to accompany cake.
next: why paul kept his condition a secret... next: paul's dietary changes...
that’s not easy with a dad who enjoys hearty italian meals and produces pasta sauces for supermarkets.
in this lifescript exclusive, find out how she helped improve her dad’s health and lowered her children’s risk of the chronic disease...
i want to support and encourage him to  take care of himself.