all rights reserved about us .
email recipe meat feast pizza try this pizza recipe for a healthier alternati...
main dish: meat serves: 4 nutritional information per serving: calories: 503 carbohydrate:
great for even the fussiest of eaters, this dis...
bacon, spam and... >
ingredients: 225g dried pasta 30 minutes to prepare and cook.
see “can-veniently  nutritious” for more recipes ingredients: 225g dried pasta 4 rashers bacon 200g can spam light, cubed 200g can button  mushrooms, drained 400g can low fat italian tomato with basil soup 410g can cannellini beans, drained seasoning method: 1.
62g protein: 27g fat: 16g fibre: 7g bacon, spam and bean pasta this is a simple dish to prepare, packed full with nutrients.
meatball and baked bean boats a great way to get the kids excited about good ...
recipe search click image to enlarge course:
heat the oil in a large pan and cook the onion, garlic and bacon for 3 – 4 minutes.
add the cannellini beans and drained cooked pasta.
add the soup and simmer for 5 minutes, do not let the soup boil.
starter/snack main course dessert recipe of the month starter/side disk/snack: view all - home - health & nutrition - introduction - open for healthy eating - 5-a-day - nutrition in a can - balance your food choices - top tips - amanda's store cupboard essentials - recipes - introduction - starter/snack/side dish - main course - dessert - u.can cook with james martin - education - introduction - why cans? - history of food cans - how cans are made today - filling food cans - cans in the classroom - environment - free information -
sausage and bean casserole with new potato colannon
stir in the spam and mushrooms and cook for a further 4 minutes.
bring a large pan of water to the boil, add the pasta and cook  for about 12 minutes (check pack for details).
bacon, spam and bean pasta this is a simple dish to prepare, packed full with nutrients.
in the news - press releases - press contact - image library - webcasts & podcasts - about us - introduction - associated links - members - contact us meat fish vegetarian main course: view all meat fish vegetarian dessert: view all search by keyword: turkey, bacon and lentil soup a healthy way to make the m... quick links new! u.can cook recipes with james view a demo of our iphone app download our webcasts and podcasts for free win a james martin blender with canned food uk!
© 2012 canned food uk .
add the cannellini  beans and drained cooked pasta.
add the  soup and simmer for 5 minutes, do not let the soup boil.
bring a large pan of water to the boil, add the pasta and cook for about 12 minutes (check pack for details).
see “can-veniently nutritious” for more recipes 1 tsp oil 1 onion sliced 1 garlic clove 4 rashers bacon 200g can spam light, cubed 200g can button mushrooms, drained 400g can low fat italian tomato with basil soup 410g can cannellini beans, drained seasoning method: 1.
heat the oil in a  large pan and cook the onion, garlic and bacon for 3 – 4 minutes.
stir in  the spam and mushrooms and cook for a further 4 minutes.
30  minutes to prepare and cook.
design & seo by clevercherry.com