that’s it…a complete luscious meal was ready and finally added a compliment of chilled pepsi to it:-) - - pasta salad, potato salad, pasta with shrimps, seafood pizza & garlic bread seafood pizza ingredients: - seafood – your choice (i used boiled prawns) - mushrooms – 200 gms (or any other topping/vegetable of choice) - green capsicums – 2 medium sized - onion -1 - tomato – 1 - cheese – 3/4 cup, grated - pizza base – 4 small - pizza sauce (will post the recipe) method: - 1.
actually i wanted to make all the salad which is normally kept in the salad bar but then i became lazy n restricted to only 4.
pasta salad, potato salad, pasta with shrimps, seafood pizza & garlic  bread seafood pizza seafood – your choice (i used boiled prawns) mushrooms – 200 gms (or any other topping/vegetable of choice) green capsicums – 2 medium sized onion -1
this is a much healthier option than visiting them rit??
( log out / change )
here is what i did…quickly baked some garlic breads (click here for  recipe,garlic bread), made pizzas n pasta with shrimps, tossed the boiled  potato in yogurt, mayo, salt, pepper & sugar for a yummy creamy potato  salad….
pasta with shrimps ingredients - cooked pasta - cooked shrimp - garlic – cloves - parmesan cheese - 3/4 cup - coarse salt - a few grains - extra virgin olive oil – 55gms - tomato sauce – 2 tbsp - capsicum, onion, tomato – 1 each method bring pasta to boil till tender.
clean the mushrooms thoroughly.
share this: like this:
heat the oven to 170c. 7.
reply azeema - torviewtoronto said november 11, 2010 at 3:10 p11 delicious love homemade pizza reply - nisha thomas said november 13, 2010 at 3:10 p11 that is indeed quite a spread!
looking forward to your regular visit n feedback on this blog.
i am looking for some great food and wine blog writers.
this is a much healthier option than  visiting them rit??
reply - azeeskitchen said november 10, 2010 at 3:10 p11 dear sarah, thanks a ton for your offer!!
add the drained pasta along with cooked prawns and toss into the masala and cook for 5 minutes.
cut the capsicums into small strips.
i like your passion for food and blog writing.
note: you can use any topping that you like for the pizzas.
i work for a swedish social media company which has clients in india as well.
our members attend food and wine tasting events for free and blog about them and their blogs are linked to our european and indian websites.
website you are commenting using your wordpress.com account.
if you would like to know more or be a member and attend an event coming up in new delhi this november, please reply to me atsarah@spotandtell.se look forward for your reply.
yes….pizza n pasta… sudden thought of bringing the “pizza hut” feel at home came to my mind and immediately got into action..
that’s it…a complete luscious meal was ready  and finally added a compliment of chilled pepsi to it:-)
layer the cooked pasta with sauce with grated cheese and bake for around 10 mts till the cheese is completely melted.
yes….pizza n  pasta… sudden thought of bringing the “pizza hut” feel at home came to  my mind and immediately got into action..
here is what i did…quickly baked some garlic breads (click here for recipe,garlic bread), made pizzas n pasta with shrimps, tossed the boiled potato in yogurt, mayo, salt, pepper & sugar for a yummy creamy potato salad….
i am afraid i wouldn’t be able to take up this for the time being, however, we can stay in touch & explore the opportunities in the future.
follow follow “azee's kitchen blog”
posted by azeeskitchen on november 7, 2010 i am really sorry for not updating the blog for quite long time…has  been really really busy….well, today would like to present recipes from  the italian cuisine which is everyone’s favorite..
india newz on pineapple souffle azeeskitchen  oncoffee cake with cream cheese … azeeskitchen on coffee cake with  cream cheese … ansar.
wash the capsicums, cut them into quarters and remove the white pith and seeds.
stir gently will all the water is absorbed.
join 36 other followers powered by wordpress.com
- sarah said november 8, 2010 at 3:10 p11 hi!
azee's kitchen blog your cooking guide… « idli wedges – a crispy snack - categories - assorted recipes (35) - blogging marathon (30) - blogging marathon – kids friendly recipes (8) - breakfast (8) - cakes (17) - chicken recipes (12) - chinese recipes (3) - chutneys / dips (5) - cookies (1) - dessert (21) - english recipes (8) - hyderabadi recipes (14) - kerala delicacies (16) - kids snacks zone (10) - miscellaneous (4) - mutton recipes (4) - non veg recipes (10) - ramadan recipes (36) - recipes for bachelors / new cooks (9) - rice varieties (6) - salad (4) - sandwich recipes (2) - seafood recipes (6) - side dish for chappati (9) - smoothies (6) - snacks (24) - soup (1) - soups (2) - south indian veg recipes (14) - starters (7) - tips (1) - traditional kaniyakumari dist recipes (6) - uncategorized (22) - archives - march 2012 - february 2012 - january 2012 - december 2011 - november 2011 - september 2011 - august 2011 - june 2011 - march 2011 - february 2011 - january 2011 - december 2010 - november 2010 - october 2010 - september 2010 - august 2010 - july 2010 - may 2010 - april 2010 - march 2010 - february 2010 - share this blog wishing you all a blessed eid ul adha » pizza hut feel at home :-) posted by azeeskitchen on november 7, 2010 i am really sorry for not updating the blog for quite long time…has been really really busy….well, today would like to present recipes from the italian cuisine which is everyone’s favorite..
actually i wanted to make all  the salad which is normally kept in the salad bar but then i became lazy n  restricted to only 4.
add water if you want a gravy.
and…cut some raw capsicum n cucumbers for those who preferred raw salad..
grind the chillies, garlic and tomato sauce together.
and for pasta salad, just mixed the boiled pasta with some herbs, mayo, capsicum, salt n pepper….
you canleave a response, or trackback from your own site.
add salt and cook for 2-3 minutes.
grate the cheese to make 3/4 cup.
sprinkle the cheese over each base and top with oregano n basil herbs and place in the hot oven.
place the pizza base on a tray and spread the pizza suace over the top of each base.
| theme:andreas09 by andreas viklund.
cancel connecting to %s notify me of follow-up comments via email.
reply - ramya said december 15, 2010 at 3:10 p12 first time here..
like be the first to like this post.
drain and then sieve through cold water (this retains the colour of the pasta, in case you are using multi-coloured pasta).
slice the mushrooms thin with the stalks and place them in a pan with 1 tbsp of water over high heat.
love the pizza hut spread..
in a pan, heat olive oil, and saute the onions & capsicum, then add the chopped tomatoes and the chilli-garlic-sauce-paste.
s on coffee cake with cream cheese … lubna karim on coffee cake with cream cheese … azeeskitchen on  cheese cake blessy thomas on cheese cake torviewtoronto and  c… on cheese balls torviewtoronto and c… on eid gift  from azee’s… kalyani on welcome to the celebration of… azeeskitchen on strawberry yogurt dessert lubna karim on  fish cutlet lubna karim on strawberry yogurt dessert lubna  karim on chicken nuggets – crispy… jabeen on dahi  ka gosht « idli wedges – a  crispy snack wishing you all a blessed eid ul adha » pizza hut feel at home :-)
arrange the capsicums on top and spread the mushrooms n other veggies n prawns over the capsicums.
fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: email (required) (address never made public)
you are commenting using your twitter account.
and for pasta salad, just mixed the boiled  pasta with some  herbs, mayo, capsicum, salt n pepper….
mouthwatering reply leave a reply cancel reply enter your comment here...
you are commenting using your facebook account.
and…cut some raw capsicum  n cucumbers for those who preferred raw salad..
remove the pizzas from the oven as soon as the cheese starts melting and the base turns light brown.
« idli wedges – a crispy snack wishing you all a blessed eid ul adha » blog at wordpress.com.
this entry was posted on november 7, 2010 at 3:10 p11 and is filed under assorted recipes.
you can follow any responses to this entry through the rss 2.0 feed.
7 responses to “pizza hut feel at home :-)”
get every new post delivered to your inbox.