avoid sugary snack foods.
lunch tasty pita spread peanut butter on a whole-wheat pita, top with thinly sliced apples, sprinkle with cinnamon and warm in the oven.
individualized learning goals for children and youth with special needs in relation to food can be part of a comprehensive approach to building daily living and communication skills and prompting appropriate behaviours.
females menstruate irregularly or skip periods feels guilty or ashamed about eating loses a noticeable amount of weight, or weight fluctuates quite a bit adapted from the student nutrition & activity manual,  wellington-dufferin-guelph public health, 2006 good to know disordered eating is not always about being thin.
with males, the focus is not usually on being thin, but rather being  buff and lean or muscular.
most often, serve: - water – the best choice for quenching thirst - milk or fortified soy beverages; health canada recommends 2 cups of milk every day for all canadians to get enough vitamin d - 100% fruit juice – ½ to 1 cup is enough for a day - vegetable juice – look for lower-sodium brands find out more about better beverages, bottled water and how to stay well hydrated by visitingeatrightontario.ca.
- keep hot foods hot and cold foods cold.
(this book for  children aged 3-8 promotes positive body image by depicting shape, size and  cultural diversity)
yogurt save by buying… - yogurt in large containers, which are a better value than single-serving cups - “no name” yogurt and store brands tips!
- for better nutrition and more interesting mealtimes, think variety (colour, taste, textures, foods, cuisines) from meal to meal, and from day to day.
like non-aboriginal children, obesity and diabetes result from diets  containing too many calories, especially from fatty, processed and fried foods.
expecting children and youth to “clean their plate” can lead to overeating.
eating disorders can have a serious negative impact on overall health and  can even cause death.
meat in bulk packages or family-size packages may be cheaper, but always check the price per kilogram (or kg).
advise them that dieting doesn’t work and may actually lead them to  overeat.
- makes it easier to serve nutritious meals – planning allows you to include healthy food group choices that will be appealing, culturally appropriate and child- and youth-friendly.
juices save by buying… - juice in large containers instead of small “juice boxes” - juices made from 100% pure frozen juice concentrate, which are nutritious and an excellent value tips!
children and youth who are involved in menu planning, grocery shopping, cooking and serving are more likely to eat and enjoy the meals.
try packing a breakfast with three or four food groups that they can take with them.
children aged 6-13 are also becoming more aware of their bodies.
secrets of feeding a healthy family: orchestrating and enjoying the family meal by ellyn satter, 2008.
many aboriginal people eat a diet  made up primarily of store-bought foods, sometimes supplemented with  much-valued traditional foods.
find out more:foods to limit.
wild plant foods are used sometimes and may include greens (e.g.,  fiddleheads), berries (e.g., blueberries, strawberries and raspberries) and  wild rice.
some ideas in this tool kit will not be appropriate for all children and youth.
always rule out a health issue before making dietary changes.
the ideas on page 43 and sample menus on page 44 may be helpful.
good to know omega-3 fatty acids are one of the “good” fats to include in a healthy diet.
buy trans fat-free versions of foods as much as possible.
- mission nutrition kellogg’s canada and dietitians of canada (resources for educators and families with activity suggestions that can be easily adapted for use in residential facilities)
fruit drinks may look like juice, but are mostly sugar and water with just a little, if any, real fruit juice.
professional help may be required if a child’s or youth’s dieting has gone too far, or if these early warning signs are noticed: - the child or youth over- or underestimates the size of his or her body, and is ashamed by his or her appearance, size, height or physical maturity - talks negatively about parts of his or her body - talks about feeling “fat” or “ugly” - overdoes physical activity - is excessively concerned about weight, shape and calories - restricts food intake or strictly avoids certain foods, particularly those considered “fattening” - adopts unusual eating habits, skips meals or often says “i’m not hungry” - females menstruate irregularly or skip periods - feels guilty or ashamed about eating - loses a noticeable amount of weight, or weight fluctuates quite a bit adapted from the student nutrition & activity manual, wellington-dufferin-guelph public health, 2006 good to know disordered eating is not always about being thin.
measure weight with medical advice.
look up interesting stew recipes from around the world online or in cookbooks.
when choosing cereals, soups and other packaged foods, compare their nutrition facts tables.
in this section you will find: - how to find out about cultural and/or religious food traditions - considerations for aboriginal children and youth back to top cultural and religious food-based traditions it is not realistic to expect foster parents and staff at licensed residential settings to know every culture’s and religion’s food habits, celebrations that involve special foods, and dietary restrictions, and it is impossible to cover them all in this tool kit.
the cost savings of buying directly from the farmer or ontario food terminal (as opposed to grocery stores) is passed on to the customers.
milk save by buying… - milk in bags or recyclable plastic jugs, which are cheaper than milk in cardboard boxes - skim milk powder, which is cheaper than liquid milk - fortified soy beverage – offer to children who do not drink milk (flavoured varieties may be more expensive) tips!
establish when and where food will be served.
in some regions, these foods will be more difficult to obtain and may not be practical.
find out more about islamic food traditions.
often, as a result, children and youth will eat less.
good to know it is important to learn the signs and symptoms of allergies.
health canada recommends: - eating a small amount (about 2-3 tbsp) of healthy fats each day, such as vegetable oils like canola, olive and soybean - limiting butter, hard margarine, lard and shortening - choosing soft margarines that are low in saturated and trans fats avoid trans fat trans fat is an unhealthy type of fat linked to heart disease.
a vegan diet can be healthy if foods are chosen wisely and  there is enough food to support growth, development and appetite.
make sure that you know which lakes and rivers are considered safe sources of fish by contacting the ontario ministry of natural resources.
try adding bok choy, a type of chinese cabbage.
processed baked goods, individually packaged snacks and higher-fat snacks do not offer good value.
be budget-wise and choose fresh in season, and frozen or canned at other times.
a better approach is to eat healthy foods most often and in appropriate portions, limit treat-type snack foods (but not restrict them totally), and be active every day.
each chapter ends with a glossary of foods and food terms that explains how certain foods and preparations differ from those in other cultures.
for example, in some situations, using pictures or statements such as “eat first, then play” may help a child or youth with autism to understand routines.
adapted from eat right be active a guide for parents and caregivers of children ages 3-5, nutrition resource centre, toronto, ontario, 2007 back to top approaches to feeding different age groups
* - thoroughly wash all vegetables and fruit with water – even “pre-washed” prepared vegetables – before eating and cooking.
some aboriginal food ideas moose or venison stew make wild-meat stews by using the same recipes used for beef stew and replacing the meat.
alternatives boxed macaroni and cheese dinners - add canned tuna - add frozen peas (cooked) - use less butter or margarine and more milk instead - make macaroni and cheese from scratch: use whole-wheat macaroni (or half whole-wheat, half regular) and lower-fat cheeses canned soups - choose broth-based soups more often than cream-based - add a can of legumes to vegetable soup (e.g., kidney beans, chickpeas, black beans) - add leftover meat or frozen vegetables - make a quick pot of homemade soup using salt-reduced chicken or beef broth, frozen or fresh vegetables, lean meat and cooked noodles (including leftovers) and canned beans (e.g., kidney beans)
try to include sources of omega-3 fats regularly.
traditional animal foods include foods from the land (e.g., moose,  venison and rabbit), sky (e.g., goose or duck) and water (e.g., pickerel or  white fish).
check the fridge, cupboards and freezer.
for more information the teen’s vegetarian cookbook by judy krizmanic, 1999.
processed/canned luncheon meats (e.g. ham, beef and balogna) are limited.
- sanitize countertops, cutting boards and utensils with a mild solution of bleach and water.
resources for research - call eatright ontario.
canada’s food guides eating well with canada’s food guide to healthy eating, health canada, 2007 eating well with canada’s food guide for first nations, inuit and métis, health canada, contacts registered dietitians registered dietitians are uniquely trained to provide advice on food, diet and nutrition.
there is no one ideal weight for children and youth, especially since they  are continually growing and changing as part of normal development.
the beginner’s guide to eating disorders recovery by nancy  j. kolodny, 2004.
licensed residential settings already have a variety of good practices in place to foster healthy eating habits.
do not assume that all children and youth from a particular ethnic group or culture follow the same traditions.
back to top best buys in vegetables and fruit choose dark-green and orange vegetables and fruits more often.
back to top food and behaviour what determines a child’s behaviour will vary greatly depending on the individual, and what works for one child may not work for another.
check the “best before” date on all dairy products.
- canada’s food guide is available in 10 languages in addition to english and french.
note: reinforcing statements, food rules and routines for how, when and what to eat may be appropriate for some children with developmental disorders.
encourage healthy eating, feeling good about themselves anddaily physical activity for all youth, regardless of their weight.
they cause a rapid heartbeat, a drop in blood pressure and unconsciousness, and can be life-threatening.
(includes “fast food” and easy-to-prepare dishes) raising vegetarian children by joanne stepaniak and vesanto  melina, 2002.
in this section you will find: the benefits of menu planning seven simple steps for menu planning reproducible menu planning form
some physical, developmental and/or mental health conditions and medications may affect a child’s or youth’s food preferences, appetite or digestion (e.g., bowel regularity) or cause weight fluctuations.
many aboriginal people eat a diet made up primarily of store-bought foods, sometimes supplemented with much-valued traditional foods.
protein in a meal or snack can help keep children and youth fuller longer, keeping hunger at bay.
when desserts are served, they are most often food group-based (rice pudding, milk pudding, fruit crisps, yogurt topped with fruit, fruit salad, bread pudding, carrot cake, banana bread and date squares).
look high and low on the shelves for cheaper brands.
any special dietary needs (allergies, intolerances, medical conditions, medications) have been planned for in consultation with a qualified health-care provider (registered dietitian, doctor, nurse practitioner).
canned and frozen vegetables and fruit are a better buy when fresh vegetables and fruit are not in season.
other sources of calcium for variety try… - tofu, soy and rice beverages that have been fortified with calcium and vitamin d (use them in place of milk in any recipe) food safety tip!
breakfast banana split breakfast slice a banana on a plate.
these health concerns have arisen from reduced access to traditional diets  based on hunting, gathering and fishing, sedentary lifestyles and increased  consumption of refined, higher-calorie foods and drinks.
where appropriate, eat healthy foods and be active with the children and youth in the licensed residential setting.
remember: - children and youth can eat more than one serving from each food group at each meal or snack.
where appropriate, eat  healthy foods and be active with the children and youth in the licensed  residential setting.
here are some ideas: - provide some meals and snacks that are representative of particular cultural traditions - accept that some children and youth may not want to try mainstream or traditional foods - respect any food restrictions - observe some cultural celebrations by buying or preparing a special dish or snack.
for example, the following would most often be considered developmentally appropriate, or typical, behaviour: - eating very little one day and eating a lot the next day - refusing to eat vegetables or meat - only wanting “junk” food all the time
good to know foods that are high-risk choking hazards for younger children (aged 3-5) young children are especially vulnerable to choking on food.
meat alternatives include: - peanut butter and other nut butters - legumes (e.g., chickpeas, kidney beans, black beans, lentils) - eggs - tofu - nuts and seeds - soy-based meat substitutes (e.g., meatless burgers) - fish (some vegetarians still eat fish – check personal preferences) - if possible, avoid making separate meals for vegetarian children and youth.
teens’ bones grow fastest during pre-puberty and puberty.
in this section you will find: - four steps for safe food handling - when in doubt, throw it out!
add vegetables in season or frozen vegetables, an egg for protein and jarred peanut sauce to top it off.
look up proper cooking times in the brochure“food safety at home – your guide to safe handling.”
some youth, especially teenage girls, may see vegetarianism as a way to  lose weight or cover up their intention to diet.
children and youth who experience only some of the symptoms may still suffer from disordered eating (abnormal eating habits including restrictive dieting).
here are some simple suggestions: - vegetarian chili, a small whole-wheat roll with a slice of hard cheese, a fruit cup and water - curried beef with vegetables, pita wedges, a kiwi, a mini banana muffin and water - chicken thigh, whole-wheat couscous, raw carrots, a wedge of cantaloupe and milk - cheese-and-fruit kabob, whole-wheat pita wedges, salsa and refried beans for dipping, and fortified soy beverage adapted from eat
this can  lead to overeating and possible weight problems or eating disorders.
(information about guiding children toward a healthy body weight and a positive body image, from infancy through the turbulent teen years).
and what effect it is having on their life.
hard cheeses rather than processed cheese slices and cheese spreads are served.
- “finish your milk.
feeding children aged 6-13 at this age, children start to make more food decisions on their own, but they still need adults to make healthy choices available and guide their eating habits by teaching them why it is important to eat right and how to eat right.
drinks served 2 cups of powdered (reconstituted), skim, 1% or 2% milk or fortified soy beverage are offered to every child daily, and 3 cups of milk are offered to youth daily (may include milk used in cooking).
back to top four steps for safe food handling these simple steps will help reduce the risk of illness related to food.
in fact, even foods that look, smell and taste
for more information the science chef travels around the world: fun food experiments and recipes for kids by joan d’amico and karen eich drummond, 1996.
approach: offer a small amount (½ cup) of milk, but don’t force it.
- speak to someone from the ontario federation of indian friendship centres.
in order to keep a child with food allergies safe and avoid serious reactions, staff or foster parents should follow the directions provided by a registered dietitian, doctor or nurse practitioner and parents (if applicable).
adapted from dieting: information for parents, teachers and coaches, caring for kids eating disorders eating disorders are not about food or vanity; they are coping strategies to deal with deeper emotional problems.
each day, at least half of the grain products arewhole-grain (barley, brown rice, oats, quinoa, wild rice, couscous, breads, pitas, tortillas, roti, crackers, oatmeal and pasta).
as a rule of thumb, as long as leftovers have been refrigerated within two hours of cooking time and stored properly, they can be eaten (within a day or two).
back to top section three special nutrition considerations children and youth with special needs any specific dietary considerations for children and youth in a residential setting need to be identified and documented; aregistered dietitian can help determine how to best meet nutritional needs.
an obese child or youth should have a  care plan developed by health-care professionals.
well together meal planner.
offer healthy morning and after-school snacks at least one to two hours before mealtimes, followed by an evening snack.
- fill in any remaining meals and snacks.
teens are still growing and need the right amounts of food and nutrients to be healthy.
end-of-aisle displays may not be the best buy.
some aboriginal  people may not eat any traditional foods at all.
once a week or month, with the help of the children and youth, create a healthy dish from a different culture.
a serving of meat is 75 grams (1/2 cup).
more expensive items - specialty breads (e.g., pumpernickel, rye, pita, sourdough) may cost up to twice as much as regular bread, but they provide variety and are still relatively inexpensive - the more processed the product (e.g., crackers, pre-seasoned noodles and rice preparations), the more expensive they are - store-made bakery products (e.g., donuts, muffins and croissants) are expensive and higher in fat and sugar adapted from ottawa public health.
it is a menu planning guide complete with a sample weekly menu plan and suggestions to help preschoolers eat well.
currently there is no cure for food allergies.
there is no safe amount of trans fat.
while it is normal for teenagers to be self-conscious about their body, constantly worrying about weight or restricting food is not healthy.
nutrition basics are based on health canada’s revised food guides:eating well with canada’s food guide (2007) and eating well with canada’s food guide – first nations, inuit and métis (2007).
like non-aboriginal children, obesity and diabetes result from diets containing too many calories, especially from fatty, processed and fried foods.
a doctor or  nurse practitioner may be able to provide additional support and/or a referral  to a registered dietitian.
children  and youth need enough calories to support growth and development, but not too  many calories, which might lead to excessive weight gain.
- if possible, keep separate cutting boards for raw meats and vegetables.
- serve soft-cooked or raw vegetables with dip as well as cooked vegetables.
for more information - sickkids (search for “food allergies and intolerances”) - anaphylaxis canada (information on severe allergies and anaphylactic reactions, including peanut allergies and food allergy training) - “food allergies,” health canada ( information on allergies and food sensitivities, and downloadable pamphlets about the most common food allergies in canada) - safe4kids, by anaphylaxis canada ( designed for children and youth to explore food allergies, in particular anaphylactic allergies, through information, games, recipes and activities)
for example, a sandwich includes two servings of grain products (two slices of bread).
- there’s a frog in my throat or there’s something stuck in my throat.
(recipes  including stews, pastries, pasta dishes and holiday fare) the vegetarian resource group (provides information about vegetarianism and  children, youth and adults, from nutritional needs to recipe ideas)
this encyclopedia examines  the history and food traditions of more than 170 ethno-cultural groups in 73  countries.
approach: see the information on vegetarianism in “section three: special nutrition considerations.”
try moroccan chicken stew over couscous or irish stew.
back to top how to read labels to make better choices it is easier to eat right when the kitchen is stocked with healthy choices.
back to top fast food makeovers many children and youth enjoy “fast” foods like french fries, pizza and hot dogs, and may turn to these foods for comfort.
these distractions discourage socializing at mealtimes and make it harder for children and youth to focus on eating.
for a child or youth who lacks the communication skills to describe intestinal discomfort, it is important to check with individuals who are familiar with his or her history regarding sensitivities to foods and/or medications.
discuss the reasoning for  their choice and ensure that vegetarian teens are still eating regular meals  and snacks.
- praise children and youth for qualities other than appearance.
* mild bleach and water solution: - add 2 tbsp bleach to a sink full of water (4½ litres) - soak cutting boards for at least one minute - do not rinse separate - keep raw meats and poultry away from other foods during storage and preparation.
please go to the appropriate sections for resources on specific topics.
adapted from eat right be active a guide for parents and caregivers of children ages 6-8, nutrition resource centre, toronto, ontario, 2007
a better approach is to eat healthy foods most often and in  appropriate portions, limit treat-type snack foods (but not restrict them  totally), and be active every day.
meat alternatives save by buying… - meat alternatives such as eggs, dried beans and peas, lentils and/or tofu, and substitute them for meat in recipes - legumes (peas, beans and lentils) in dry form or cans tips!
a child or youth with an eating disorder requires specialized medical attention.
considering the cultural and religious needs of children and youth is essential to helping them adapt, feel accepted and build their self-esteem.
eating well with canada’s food guide to healthy eating, health canada, 2007 eating well with canada’s food guide – first nations, inuit and métis, health canada, 2007 eatright ontario, ministry of health promotion back to top section two positive mealtimes introduction establishing a positive mealtime where children and youth feel safe and relaxed is critical to learning healthy eating habits – it is just as important as the food they eat.
remember, what is most important is their eating habits over time.
avoid referring to foods as “good” or “bad.”
in canada, the most common food allergies are: - peanuts - eggs - milk - tree nuts (e.g., brazil nuts) - wheat - soy - sesame seeds - seafood - sulphites (sensitivity-causing food additive)
children and youth need 90 minutes of physical activity every day.
step 2: choose the brand with more vitamins, minerals and fibre.
“tips for raising kids with healthy weights,” eatright ontario back to top dieting and eating disorders
fill a whole-wheat tortilla with leftover meat or beans, cheese, vegetables (cooked from frozen) and rice.
early warning signs when dealing with eating disorders, dieting and disordered eating, caution  is needed to avoid contributing further to mental and physical health problems.
promote healthy eating as a means to feel strong and healthy, not changing looks or losing weight.
back to top healthy weights
these drinks are avoided or seldom offered: fruit cocktails, fruit punches, lemonade, fruit drinks and soft drinks.
it is normal for appetites to vary from day to day and from one meal or snack to the next.
water is offered/available throughout the day to satisfy thirst, especially on hot days or when children and youth are active.
these foods pose a high risk of choking: - whole hot dogs and grapes (make them safer: slice lengthwise and cut into bite-sized pieces) - raw hard vegetables (make them safer: soft-cook or shred into foods) - peanut butter served from a spoon (make it safer: serve thinly spread on crackers, not moist bread) - fruit with seeds (make it safer: remove all seeds and pits and buy seedless watermelons, grapes, etc.)
alternatively, if possible, aboriginal elders may be able to come to your home or facility to teach children and youth about traditional methods of gathering, eating and cooking traditional foods.
remove the skin before serving as it is high in fat.
(this book for children aged 3-8 promotes positive body image by depicting shape, size and cultural diversity)
- make wise convenience-food choices.
“fast” foods made better “fast” food choices making it healthier healthier (and inexpensive)
- foods fortified with omega-3 fats, such as orange juice, milk and eggs
the youth only wants to eat “junk.”
- contact the local public health unit – all employ registered dietitians.
- risks of cancer from a poor diet are the same as from smoking.
promote healthy eating as  a means to feel strong and healthy, not changing looks or losing weight.
healthy food choices and physical activity are key factors in reducing the risk of diabetes as well as effectively managing diabetes.
call eatright ontario at 1-877-510-510-2 to learn about choosinglow-mercury fish.
the rates of type 2 diabetes in aboriginal children and youth have increased dramatically over the past two decades.
their voice may change (i.e., become hoarse or squeaky), and they may slur their words.
some fats are better than others.
limit how often these treats are available in the residential facility.
raising happy, healthy weight-wise kids by judy toews and nicole parton, 2002.
spoiled food is a waste of money, so plan to first use up the food already at hand.
menu plans are posted and substitutions are noted on the menu plan (where applicable).
a variety of foods is served from each food group, avoiding repetition within the week as much as possible.
they do not replace the responsibility of a licensed residential setting for meeting requirements of any legislation that is applicable, for example, thehealth protection and promotion act.
children and youth who experience only some of the symptoms may still  suffer from disordered eating (abnormal eating habits including restrictive  dieting).
- beans, corn and squash – known as the “three sisters” – have traditionally been a staple in many regions of ontario.
it is important to promote healthy eating and physical activity for all  children and youth at a licensed residential setting.
children and youth learn best from good examples.
note that for some children and youth, including those with special needs and autism spectrum disorders, these approaches may not be appropriate.
best buys in meat and alternatives choose leaner meats, poultry and fish as well as dried peas, beans and lentils more often.
(how to develop a healthy weight, including topics such as the  feeding responsibilities of adults and children, the importance of not  restricting foods for children who are overweight, and healthy food choices).
back to top seven simple steps for menu planning
keep water available for children and youth throughout the day.
** - frozen fish: smelt, haddock, boston bluefish, ocean perch - eggs - chicken, turkey - lean beef/pork: stew meat, shoulder pork, chuck/blade, brisket point, cross rib, sirloin tip, outside round or bottom, inside round - lean or extra-lean ground meat, or regular ground meat that is well cooked and rinsed of excess fat - ham (unprocessed) - wild/game meat: moose, venison, rabbit, duck, goose foods to serve sometimes vegetables and fruit grain products * milk and alternatives meat and alternatives - vegetables with sauces or breading - fruit leather, dried fruit bars - dried fruit: raisins, cranberries, apricots - granola bars (plain) - popcorn (unflavoured) - pretzels (unsalted) - fruit crisps, cobblers - cookies: oatmeal, peanut butter, dried fruit-filled (e.g., fig), gingersnaps, graham wafers - biscuits, scones - pudding made with milk - milkshakes - frozen yogurt custards - processed cheese slices - cheese spreads - low-fat fish sticks** - low-fat chicken strips or nuggets - canned fish (in oil)** foods, beverages and extras to limit - pastries, danishes - fry bread - cakes, pies, sticky buns, donuts, tarts - pre-sweetened cereals - granola bars with chocolate - cookies with icing - instant noodle soups - soft drinks, pop, diet pop - fruit drinks (punch, cocktails) - sweetened fruit juices - sports drinks - energy drinks - coffee beverages (e.g., icy cappuccino) - syrups - frozen ice treats (popsicles) - sherbet, ice cream - marshmallows - whipped cream, whipped topping - candy, chocolate - flavoured gelatin - potato chips, nacho chips - cheesies - french fries - weiners, hot dogs, sausages - all deli meats - canned meats e.g., corned beef - bacon and back bacon - dried meat dipped in lard or shortening - dried processed meat strips such as pepperoni sticks - gravy - ketchup, mustard, relish - butter, hard margarine - cream cheese - sour cream **call eatright ontario at 1-877-510-510-2 to learn about choosing low-mercury fish.
use these visual cues to approximate serving sizes: - a tennis ball is about ½ cup of food - a hockey puck is ½ a bagel (one grain products serving) - a deck of cards is a serving of meat, fish or poultry - a golf ball is 2 tbsp (a serving of peanut butter) - two golf balls are 4 tbsp (a serving of nuts/seeds)
good to know limit soda pop.
- adults can be positive role models by showing that they accept their body’s shape and size as well as those of others.
within a meal, balance nutritious higher-fat choices (peanut butter, cheese, meats and nuts) with lower-fat foods (raw vegetables, beans, rice and milk).
pasta, rice and grains save by buying… - pasta and rice on special or in bulk (they will keep for a long time when stored in a dry place) - couscous, bulgur or millet in bulk (they also add variety to your diet)
similarly, it is important to build cultural awareness of all children and  youth by exposing everyone in the group or foster home to food from particular  cultural backgrounds.
- use leftover rice in soups, fried rice or rice pudding - use ripe fruit in smoothies, fruit crisps or muffins - make a stir-fry, soup or wrap with leftover meats - use leftover plain spaghetti as a salad base the next day - use leftover veggies for quiche, pasta sauce or pizza toppings or in soup for more information - the fightbac! program gives practical food safety tips and information and answers to common questions, such as “can i freeze, thaw and then re-freeze chicken?”
for example, the use of pictures of certain food items may be very important in helping a child or youth with autism to understand meal routines.
good to know healthy eating does make a difference!
look for those with four grams or more of dietary fibre per serving.
while it is normal for teenagers to be self-conscious about their body,  constantly worrying about weight or restricting food is not healthy.
- ask a doctor or nurse practitioner for a referral to a registered dietitian.
salt is not put out on the table.
- training staff and foster parents and establishing rules to recognize and manage severe food allergies and avoid allergic reactions.
back to top section one: healthy eating for children and youth introduction good nutrition is important for overall health, growth and development for all children and youth.
- where possible, recipes, such as soups and stews, can be adapted to include wild meats, such as moose, venison and rabbit, instead of the meat called for in the recipe (e.g., beef or chicken).
- do not restrict nutritious, higher-fat foods, such as peanut butter, meat and cheese – children need more fat in their diets than adults do.
it allows you to choose various menu items for breakfast, lunch, dinner and snacks, and compares your choices to the servings recommended by canada’s food guide.
so they will want to keep on cooking - talk about the food while cooking – it is a great opportunity to explore new foods and learn healthy eating tips - expect a little mess – and ask the children and youth to help clean up - don’t expect things to turn out perfectly – that’s part of the learning process, and their skills will improve with time and practice back to top food-related activities - fun ideas these can encourage children and youth to enjoy healthy foods and try new foods: - world food tour celebrate the various cultures of the children and youth with a “world food tour.”
- call the dietitians of canada, consulting dietitians network toll-free at 1-888-901-7776.
we gratefully acknowledge the assistance of the many ministry of children and youth services staff that contributed to the development, review and refining of healthy eating matters.
" - compare the menu against the menu planning checklist on page 40 as a guide.
although they are convenient, they offer few nutrients, typically include trans fat and lots of sodium (salt) and are costly.
- educating other children and youth about the importance of avoiding foods that may trigger reactions.
because there are several nutrients that may be difficult for a child or  youth to get from a vegan diet – such as iron, calcium, vitamin b12 and  zinc – it is important to have a registered dietitian develop a  nutritional plan that provides appropriate nutrients and calories.
back to top fat in children’s and youths’ diets fat in small amounts is actually an important part of a healthy diet because it can provide essential nutrients for growth and development.
- look in the yellow pages under “dietitians”.
good to know pressure and praise about what and how much children and youth eat can lead to poor eating habits and future health problems.
also, some medications may reduce or enhance appetite.
these menus are just guides; a child or youth may eat more or less depending on individual needs.
approach: it may not be possible to control the amount of “junk” consumed when teens are not under supervision.
too much sugar in children’s diets is often blamed for a range of poor behaviours, such as irritability, anxiety, violent behaviour and fatigue.
compulsive eating hoarding or hiding food irregular, chaotic eating patterns often, physical hunger and fullness signals are ignored.
food should always be approached in a positive way.
for example, lactose intolerance is caused by the body’s inability to break down lactose, a natural sugar found in milk.
my tongue feels like there is hair on it.
if a child or youth may be suffering from this type of disordered eating, it is important to get the advice of an appropriate health-care professional.
shopping for less costly foods can be healthier since the focus is on basic, whole foods, such as carrots, cabbage, turnips, apples, beans (e.g., kidney beans, chick peas), milk powder, canned fish, whole-grain or enriched pasta, oatmeal and rice.
(offers tips, advice about vegetarian teens, recipes and  suggestions for handling holiday meals)
table of contents - introduction - section one:
convenience has a cost, whether it’s pre-shredded cheese or oatmeal with added sugar and flavouring.
- find out more about islamic food traditions.
they should be served infrequently and in small portions.
flavours and recipes tend to be simple and not highly spiced; seasoning  such as garlic, herbs, curry, salt and pepper are not commonly used.
poultry save by buying… - whole chickens and cutting them into serving-size pieces yourself - unprocessed products (pre-basted, pre-seasoned and pre-marinated poultry costs more and is higher in fat and salt)
healthy food choices and physical activity are key  factors in reducing the risk of diabetes as well as effectively managing  diabetes.
you ate everything on your plate!”
the most important thing to do: ask the children and youth about their cultural or religious food traditions or restrictions.
this encourages them to listen to their body cues.
a child or youth with an eating disorder requires  specialized medical attention.
if a food looks or smells strange or different than it should, don’t taste it – just toss it out.
there are several concerns for an overweight or obese child or youth: risk of health problems including bone, muscle, joint and hormonal  problems sleep difficulties poor self-esteem or being the target of bullying obesity in adulthood major risk of type 2 diabetes, heart disease and stroke good to know do not forbid or force.
- plan three meals and two to three snacks a day.
the importance of breakfast a healthy breakfast should be eaten every day.
acknowledge what they feel.
they may exhibit the following: - eating very hot food without apparent concern about burning their mouth - avoiding crunchy or soft foods - refusing to use certain utensils - leaving the table because of the smell of certain foods - only eating (or avoiding completely) foods with certain colours children and youth may choose to eat such a limited range of foods that, at times, may place them at risk for nutritional deficiencies.
teens are  still growing and need the right amounts of food and nutrients to be healthy.
serve three meals and two or three snacks no longer than two to three hours apart for preschoolers and three to four hours apart for older children and youth.
- avoid baked goods and fried restaurant foods if there is any uncertainty regarding whether they are trans fat-free.
- review a sample menu plan for a three-year-old and watch for more sample menu plans to be posted at this health canada website.
if a child or  youth may be suffering from this type of disordered eating, it is important to  get the advice of an appropriate health-care professional.
this is especially true in northern and remote communities where food costs are higher and the variety of foods available is limited.
(offers tips, advice about vegetarian teens, recipes and suggestions for handling holiday meals)
food intolerance – what is it?
the child eats very little or skips an entire meal.
foods that pose a high choking risk for young children have been avoided.
overweight children and  youth should grow into a healthy weight – not lose weight.
for more information  on various types of disordered eating, visit thenational eating disorder  information centre (nedic).
the food guides recommend children eat 4 to 6 servings of vegetables and fruit each day and teens should eat 7 to 8 servings.
- keep mealtimes relaxed and upbeat.
adapted from eat right be active a guide for parents and caregivers of children ages 6-8, nutrition resource centre, toronto, ontario, 2007 terrific snacks - canned fruit (peaches, fruit cocktail, apricots) topped with yogurt and granola - bran or homemade muffin, canned orange segments, hot chocolate made with skim milk powder - trail mix made with air-popped popcorn, whole-grain cereal, pretzels and sunflower seeds, and 100% grape juice - hard-boiled egg, chunk of hard cheese, whole-grain crackers and water - vegetable sticks and cut-up pita bread with hummus or black-bean dip - apple slices spread with a little peanut butter, topped with o-shaped cereal and milk - vegetarian whole-wheat pita pizzas some aboriginal ideas - a handful of nuts and/or seeds with some berries and a glass of water - smoked fish with an apple and a glass of water - dried meat (avoid dipping in lard or shortening – try eating as is or dipping in canola oil, salad dressing or applesauce) with berries and a glass of water - bannock with boiled egg, carrots and a glass of water
the only option is complete avoidance of the specific food.
- farmers’ markets offer locally grown produce in season, usually available at reasonable prices.
do not assume that all children and youth  from a particular ethnic group or culture follow the same traditions.
the food guide serving ranges are based on low activity levels, and will usually be enough food for non-active youth.
plain yogurt is the best choice.
boiled fish and wild rice
if possible, avoid making separate meals for vegetarian children and  youth.
(how to develop a healthy weight, including topics such as the feeding responsibilities of adults and children, the importance of not restricting foods for children who are overweight, and providing healthy food choices) shapesville by andy mills and becky osborn, 2003.
some youth, especially teenage girls, may see vegetarianism as a way to lose weight or cover up their intention to diet.
the youth is not always interested in eating breakfast.
go online and look up cultural calendars to find out about festivals and  celebrations.
and while there is little data available on the role of any specific food in extreme behaviours, providing nutritious foods at regular meals and snack times can help all children and youth.
produce (onions, carrots, apples, oranges and potatoes) and buns, rolls and bagels in bags are cheaper than individual items.
- find your local public health unit.
they will be able to better manage daily living, and will reduce their risk for chronic diseases such as diabetes, heart disease, osteoporosis and certain cancers.
try the following suggestions when dealing with children and youth who seem  preoccupied with their weight or are dieting: discuss why they are dieting and what effect it is having on their life.
moosewood restaurant cooks for a crowd: recipes with a vegetarian  emphasis for 24 or more.
the food guides provide recommendations for how much and what types of food children and youth should eat every day from each of the four food groups: - vegetables and fruit - grain products - milk and alternatives - meat and alternatives the food guides are simple tools that can help licensed residential settings make sure that children and youth are getting the right types of foods in the appropriate amounts.
some foods that children and youth can help prepare are included (wherever appropriate).
- prepare foods quickly and serve immediately so foods don’t linger at room temperature and grow bacteria.
national eating disorder information centre (nedic) ( this canadian organization provides facts, tips and resources for disordered eating, including a referral list for community treatment services and support groups; call 1-866-633-4220 or 416-340-4156) back to top section four cultural considerations introduction
promote healthy food choices and positive body image with these tips: - if possible, involve children in planning and cooking simple meals.
caring for an overweight or obese child the causes of obesity are not as simple as too much food intake and too  little physical activity, especially for children and youth experiencing  physical, emotional and social challenges.
the tips provided here are simple, basic approaches.
find out more: - registered dietitians, dietitians of canada - what is the difference between a dietitian and nutritionist, dietitians of canada public health consult a public health unit or community health centre for information, referrals, handouts and more about healthy eating, physical activity and safety.
you can order this video and a support guide  (with activities).
for children and youth who might be  overweight or obese, consider these suggestions: offer healthy food choices.
fresh save by buying… - fresh ontario vegetables and fruit – buy in season - apples, oranges and potatoes in pre-packaged bags rather than individually (try different recipes to use them before they spoil) - produce at local pick-your-own farms tips!
- advise them that dieting doesn’t work and may actually lead them to overeat.
- over 1/3 of children don’t eat the recommended two servings of milk and alternatives*.
a vegan is a vegetarian who follows a diet that does not include any foods  of animal origin – no meat, poultry, fish, eggs, milk, cheese or other  dairy products.
remember, water is the best choice between meals and snacks.
- my tongue (or mouth) is tingling (or burning or itching).
whenever possible, food is served family-style – children can help themselves.
(how to develop a healthy weight, including topics such as the  feeding responsibilities of adults and children, the importance of not  restricting foods for children who are overweight, and providing healthy food  choices) shapesville by andy mills and becky osborn, 2003.
there are several concerns for an overweight or obese child or youth: - risk of health problems including bone, muscle, joint and hormonal problems - sleep difficulties - poor self-esteem or being the target of bullying - obesity in adulthood - major risk of type 2 diabetes, heart disease and stroke good to know do not forbid or force.
adults can be positive role models by showing that they accept their  body’s shape and size as well as those of others.
follow these simple tips for food storage: - read labels to determine how to store foods.
good to know serve 100% juice, not “drinks.”
buy blocks of cheese when on sale and freeze.
- for youth, more choices can be lower-fat, but not all need to be.
because there are several nutrients that may be difficult for a child or youth to get from a vegan diet – such as iron, calcium, vitamin b12 and zinc – it is important to have a registered dietitian develop a nutritional plan that provides appropriate nutrients and calories.
- read about it there are many fun and educational books that explore food.
soy-based meat substitutes (e.g., meatless burgers)
- the community food advisor program offers demonstrations in cooking, safe food handling practices, shopping on a budget and more.
if you have nutrition questions regarding these client groups, contact your local public health department to speak with a registered dietitian, or talk to a doctor or nurse practitioner.
- a collective kitchen is a small group of people who meet to plan, budget and shop, then cook meals together.
each chapter ends with a glossary of foods and food terms that  explains how certain foods and preparations differ from those in other cultures.
by talking to children  and youth, you can discover what traditions are important to them and which  foods have special meaning as comfort or celebration foods.
- prepare fresh or frozen fish fillets, add breading, and bake or pan-fry in a nonstick pan - serve with vegetables and potato wedges in place of fries chicken nuggets or fingers - look for products with less fat and/or calories and sodium (compare nutrition facts labels)
a doctor or nurse practitioner may be able to provide additional support and/or a referral to a registered dietitian.
in this section you will find: - feeding situations that may require medical advice - positive mealtime checklist - approaches to feeding different age groups back to top feeding situations that may require medical advice
healthy foods to serve every day vegetables and fruit grain products * milk and alternatives meat and alternatives - fresh vegetables and fruit when in season, and frozen or canned at other times - dark-green vegetables: broccoli, bok choy, peas, green beans, cabbage, fiddleheads, romaine lettuce, spinach, wild greens - orange vegetables and fruit: carrots, squash, pumpkin, yams or sweet potatoes, cantaloupes, apricots, nectarines - 100% unsweetened fruit juice: grape, orange, pineapple, apple - homemade frozen fruit juice bars made with 100% fruit juice - homemade or canned vegetable soups tomato, carrot, butternut squash - unsweetened wholegrain cereals (e.g., oatmeal) with four grams or more of fibre per serving - whole-grain or wholewheat: bread, bannock, tortillas, bagels, pitas, buns, crackers, english muffins - whole-wheat or multigrain pancakes - muffins made with whole grains (whole wheat, oats) - whole-wheat noodles, pasta, brown rice, couscous - wild rice, bulgur, millet, barley - whole-wheat roti, chapatis, naan - chinese steamed buns white bread, white rice, enriched pasta * make at least half of the grain product choices whole grains each day - powdered milk - milk: skim, 1% or 2% - chocolate milk - fortified soy beverage - canned milk (evaporated) - soups made with milk - yogurt - smoothies made with milk/yogurt - kefir (yogurt drink)
including healthy foods from the four food groups provides a child’s or youth’s growing body with essential nutrients.
in particular, chemical preservatives called “benzoates” and four specific artificial colours (tartrazine, sunset yellow, ponceau and carmoisine) may trigger hyperactive behaviour.
some children will use different words to describe an allergic reaction: - this food is too spicy.
the food guides recommend how much food children and youth should consume every day for healthy growth and achieving or maintaining a healthy weight, includingserving sizes of various foods within each food group.
the moosewood collective, 2006.
active children and youth and those going through a growth spurt may need more servings to satisfy their needs.
- always keep food covered and wrapped so that juices don’t drip onto other foods in the fridge.
measuring specific servings is neither necessary nor practical.
the best way to eat well is by following eating well with canada’s food guide (2007) and eating well with canada’s food guide – first nations, inuit and métis(2007) (hereafter referred to as canada’s food guide).
most fruit drinks also have very few, if any, vitamins and minerals.
(includes “fast food” and easy-to-prepare dishes) raising vegetarian children by joanne stepaniak and vesanto melina, 2002.
in addition, for children and youth with developmental disabilities, autism and other communication exceptionalities, healthy eating habits, food rules and routines may need to be individually determined in consultation with the child or youth, qualified professionals, the child’s/youth’s case manager and/or the parents/guardians.
caring for an overweight or obese child the causes of obesity are not as simple as too much food intake and too little physical activity, especially for children and youth experiencing physical, emotional and social challenges.
- measure weight with medical advice.
the weight of the world, a video by the canadian broadcasting corporation and david suzuki.
with males, the focus is not usually on being thin, but rather being buff and lean or muscular.
this tool kit will assist licensed residential service providers in meeting ministry requirements and policies concerning food and nutrition.
it can be adapted for a particular care setting and the needs of the children and youth.
at the library, look for the book “you eat what you are: people,  culture & food traditions”, enlarged 2nd edition, by thelma  barer-stein (1999, toronto, ontario: firefly books).
stews use beef, venison, goat, poultry, fish or vegetarian alternatives.
disordered eating includes a wide range of abnormal eating behaviours.
note:  obese children and youth may require a medically supervised diet.
once opened, keep juice in a closed container in the fridge to prevent loss of vitamin c. find out what is in season, review seasonal recipes and find pick-your-own farms atfoodland ontario.
just for you - first nations and inuit health information, health canada “native foods and nutrition,” available (free) from health  canada publications, 1-866-225-0709 aboriginal diabetes initiative: recipes and food facts cards “a week of healthy meals and recipes,” windigo first nations  council “stocking a pantry to create healthy meals – anytime!”,  windigo first nations council “northern ontario: eat well & save money,” windigo first  nations council back to top menu planning – the basics introduction preparing budget-wise, healthy meals and snacks that are appealing to  children and youth takes some planning.
meals and snacks should be served about every two to three hours for preschoolers and three to four hours for older children and youth.
in most cases, this can be achieved through healthy eating and daily physical activity.
- healthy meals, snacks and drinks - fat in children’s and youths’ diets for more information on lifestyle food issues such as vegetarianism, healthy weights and allergies, see “section three: special nutrition considerations.”
the following table offers ideas to boost the nutrition in these fast foods.
spring meal sunday monday tuesday wednesday thursday friday saturday breakfast offer choices from at least 3 food groups am snack offer choices from at least two food groups lunch offer choices from each of the four food groups afternoon snack offer choices from at least two food groups dinner offer choices from each of the four food groups evening snack offer at least two food groups back to top menu planning checklist use this checklist as a guide.
see “section six: budgetwise shopping” for more on reading labels.
in this section you will find: how to find out about cultural and/or religious food traditions considerations for aboriginal children and youth back to top cultural and religious food-based traditions it is not realistic to expect foster parents and staff at licensed  residential settings to know every culture’s and religion’s food  habits, celebrations that involve special foods, and dietary restrictions, and  it is impossible to cover them all in this tool kit.
processed foods (e.g., frozen pizzas, boxed macaroni and cheese, corn dogs, etc.) are used infrequently and not served daily.
traditional foods are more often included in special ceremonies or celebrations (e.g., harvest feast).
encourage them to accept themselves for who they are, not how they look.
the tool kit does not address healthy eating for infants, toddlers, children and youth with food restrictions due to medical conditions and/or behavioural issues, children and youth who are tube fed or pregnant teenagers; these cases typically require very specific nutrition considerations.
find out what programs and services are available.
check local libraries for multicultural cookbooks, or search for recipes  online.
good to know boosting fruit and vegetable intake!
approach: keep regular sit-down mealtimes and snack times, and serve only water in between so children will come to the table hungry.
make adjustments as needed.
in  ontario, call toll-free, 1-877-510-510-2, monday through friday, 9 a.m. to 5  p.m. eastern time.
these languages reflect the nation’s top 10 non-official languages spoken  in the homes of recent immigrants.
- do not support dieting habits by serving “diet” meals and only low-calorie foods.
soda pop has no place in a child’s diet, and it should be limited for youth.
most young children like foods presented in fun and interesting ways e.g., different colours, shapes and flavours.
adapted from ottawa public health best buys in grain products choose whole-grain and enriched products more often.
do not support dieting habits by serving “diet” meals and only  low-calorie foods.
it is not realistic to list every possible condition that might have an impact on a child’s or youth’s food intake; however, some of the more common challenges are described here.
(serve meat alternatives or slice up cooked meat – beef, goat, poultry, pork or wild game – instead.)
children and youth may suffer from: - pica (eating non-food items) - prader-willi syndrome (genetic disorder that causes insatiable appetite) - compulsive eating - hoarding or hiding food - irregular, chaotic eating patterns - often, physical hunger and fullness signals are ignored.
a glass of milk or fortified soy beverage makes it complete.
remember to use food labels to compare brands to make healthier choices.
studies show that there has been an increase in body image concerns among males.
instead, replace meat with alternatives or find interesting vegetarian choices that the whole group can enjoy.
find out more aboutphysical activity.
lunches/dinners include foods from four food groups.
butter, lard and shortening are limited.
handling common feeding challenges effectively can help to avoid conflicts over food, keep mealtimes pleasant and contribute to good eating habits.
always have at least one food on the table that children and youth will likely eat, even if it is just bread or rice.
indian rice with lentils and mushrooms use cooked basmati rice and canned lentils to make a quick dish.
diabetes can lead to premature blindness, kidney failure, amputation (loss  of limbs) and heart disease.
good to know dieting is not just a girls’ thing.
the following charts offer guidance on what foods to serve more and less often.
here’s how to find a registered dietitian: - in ontario, call toll-free to speak with a registered dietitian, monday through friday 9am -5pm eastern time at 1-877-510-510-2.
putting a child or youth on a scale regularly to check if he  or she has lost or gained pounds could cause poor self-esteem and may lead to  unhealthy dieting or food habits.
- compare bulk, “no name” and store-brand prices.
alternatively, if possible, aboriginal  elders may be able to come to your home or facility to teach children and youth  about traditional methods of gathering, eating and cooking traditional foods.
offer three to four servings of milk and alternatives (e.g., milk, fortified soy beverage) daily to help teens develop strong bones for now and the future (i.e., reducing their risk for osteoporosis).
(a terrific book to share with older children and youth) - cooking with kids, food network (recipes that are simple and fun to do with children and youth)
copies are also available from local public health units and community health centres.
cooking methods food is flavoured with herbs, spices, onion, garlic, etc., and prepared with little or no added fat, sugar or salt.
back to top top five tips for saving money while you shop - shop around the edges of the store first.
traditional food choices depend on the aboriginal group as well as the  region of ontario from which the child or youth came.
special thanks to the members of the external reference committee volunteers who provided invaluable insight in reviewing healthy eating matters: cecile brookes foster parents society of ontario margaret spoelstra autism ontario claire fainer children’s mental health ontario jennifer foster ontario association of child and youth counselors andrea rifkin ontario association of residences treating youth r. jack falkins ontario federation of indian friendship centres special thanks to natalia morrison, msc, rd, nutrition consultant for contributing her expertise and experience in northern ontario and aboriginal nutrition and culture.
it is especially important for young children, whose brains are developing rapidly.
- my throat feels thick.
vegetarian meals can be budget-wise, nutritionally balanced and easy to plan: - the eating patterns of vegetarian children and youth are the same as those of non-vegetarians; follow the recommendations of the food guides, using meat alternatives instead of meat.
this can lead to overeating and possible weight problems or eating disorders.
try using milk in pancakes, oatmeal and soups.
the odd skipped meal is not a concern as long as the child is growing normally.
- for good nutritional value, include plenty of foods from the “best buys.
praise children and youth for qualities other than appearance.
- add extra tomato sauce – it counts as a vegetable hot dogs - serve on a whole-wheat bun - serve with extra vegetables and a glass of milk for a complete meal - serve with vegetable toppings such as chopped tomatoes, onions and shredded lettuce - try vegetarian wieners - make homemade hamburgers using lean ground beef on a whole-wheat bun - try tacos made with ground chicken or turkey, lots of vegetable toppings and whole-wheat tortillas fish sticks - look for “light” fish fillets, reduced in fat and/ or calories (compare nutrition facts labels)
show them how to safely use any kitchen tools, and tell them what to do in case of an emergency, such as a fire, or if they are injured (burned or cut).
at the same time, physical activity levels have decreased as video-game playing and tv viewing have increased.
okay can have the potential to cause illness.
raising happy, healthy weight-wise kids by judy toews and nicole  parton, 2002.
- serve a vegetable with each meal and snack - serve colourful vegetables with a dip (hummus, tzatziki, baba ghanouj) - puree cooked vegetables into sauces, dips and soups - add canned pumpkin, grated carrot or shredded zucchini to muffin recipes - serve cooked broccoli with a bit of cheese sauce - make sweet potato french fries/wedges - add canned diced tomatoes to tomato soup - add frozen or canned vegetables to canned soups - serve vegetable juice – warm or cold (look for lower-sodium brands) - load up pizzas, sandwiches and pasta sauces with vegetables find vegetable recipes and more by visiting 5 to 10 a day for better health andfoodland ontario.
where possible, all children and youth, regardless of their level of functioning, should be supported and provided with opportunities to participate in food preparation.
here are some tips: - when possible, serve as a role model by eating vegetables in their presence - involve the children or youth in growing, shopping for and cooking vegetables (where appropriate)
remember to look through store flyers for specials.
read “guide to understanding halal foods,” toronto public health.
- make a grocery list based on the menu plan.
for more on vegetarian diets, including how to meet nutritional needs, visit: - “vegetarianism faqs”, eatright ontario - “meal planning for the vegetarian teen” , eatright ontario good to know what is the reason?
for aboriginal children and youth who are obese or have diabetes, consult a registered dietitian to plan appropriate meals and snacks.
fish save by buying… - canned tuna, salmon and sardines, which are economical and nutritious - frozen fish (best buys are smelts, haddock, orange roughly, ocean perch and boston bluefish; fish sticks and battered fish fillets are more expensive and higher in fat)
here are some ideas: provide some meals and snacks that are representative of particular  cultural traditions accept that some children and youth may not want to try mainstream or  traditional foods respect any food restrictions observe some cultural celebrations by buying or preparing a special dish  or snack.
- healthy meals, snacks and drinks - fat in children’s and youths’ diets - section two: positive mealtimes - feeding situations that may require medical advice - positive mealtime checklist - approaches to feeding different age groups - section three: special nutrition considerations - food and behaviour - food allergies and intolerances - vegetarianism - healthy weights - dieting and eating disorders - section four: cultural considerations - cultural and religious food-based traditions - aboriginal children and youth – nutrition and traditional foods - section five: menu planning – the basics - the benefits of menu planning - seven simple steps for menu planning - reproducible menu planning form - menu planning checklist - sample menu plans - fast food makeovers - meal and snack ideas - section six: budget-wise shopping - how to read labels to make better choices - best buys within each food group - top five tips for saving money while you shop - community food programs that may help with budget-wise healthy food choices - section seven: safe food handling - four steps for safe food handling - when in doubt, throw it out - section eight: cooking with children and youth - tips for success - food-related activities - for more information introduction healthy food, in appropriate amounts, provides children and youth with the nutrients and energy needed daily for growth and development, as well as the foundation for lifelong good health.
best buys in milk and alternatives choose lower-fat milk products more often.
children and youth who eat right and are active tend to: - have a healthy body weight - feel good about themselves - have the energy to be active - have stronger muscles and bones - enjoy overall better health children and youth who are hungry or poorly nourished (e.g., higher intakes of foods and beverages high in calories, fat, sugar or salt such as chips, donuts, soft drinks) may: - be irritable, aggressive or moody - be uninterested in learning situations and do poorly at school - be unable to concentrate and focus on tasks - have less energy for daily activities children and youth who form healthy eating habits will benefit from these essential life skills in years to come.
- serve new foods alongside familiar foods.
buy a variety of vegetables and fruit including dark-green and orange vegetables and fruit for the best nutritional value.
watch for food reactions.
see “section three: special nutrition considerations” for more information.
- don’t reheat leftovers more than once.
for trustworthy advice about healthy eating, speak to a registered dietitian.
fish (some vegetarians still eat fish – check personal preferences)
- make a list of food supplies.
- “you are such a good eater.
ask a librarian for suggestions.
children are more likely to eat food they’ve helped prepare.
limiting trans fat - read the nutrition facts table on packaged goods.
show them what foods they can have when they are hungry.
cook - cook food thoroughly.
forbidding foods like cookies and candy can actually make children and youth want them more.
serve over brown rice.
use lower-fat milk or evaporated milk instead of cream to make recipes more nutritious, lower in fat and less expensive.
a northern ontario mixed breakfast serve bannock with scrambled eggs, fried moose meat, an orange and milk.
below is some basic information about traditional aboriginal foods.
lactose-reduced milk and fortified soy beverage are also options for those with lactose intolerance.
the video uses lively animation and hard-hitting science to help children and teens understand the obesity epidemic.
avoid comments like these: - “just take one more bite.”
for more information on various types of disordered eating, visit thenational eating disorder information centre (nedic).
thawed cheese will crumble, but it is just as nutritious.
- one food guide serving can be split up over the course of a day.
children and youth need enough calories to support growth and development, but not too many calories, which might lead to excessive weight gain.
especially for the younger children (aged 3 – 6), some finger foods are included.
these are more nutritious and less expensive than processed convenience foods, such as boxed macaroni and cheese, fruit drinks, frozen pizza, hot dogs, chicken nuggets and fish sticks.
- wash hands, utensils and surfaces with hot, soapy water before, during and after food preparation.
have children and youth pick out one new ingredient and search online or in a cookbook for a healthy recipe that uses that ingredient.
replace screen time (tv, computer, video games)  with supervised outdoor play or sports.
any comments or inquiries regarding the linked web sites are to be directed to the particular organization for whom the particular web site is being operated.
- food handler’s storage guide from the ontario ministry of agriculture, food and rural affairs lists what foods to store where (fridge, cupboard, freezer) and for how long (see brochure).
- the bod squad, tvokids (teaches young children about healthy foods and active living through games and activities)
common symptoms include: - cramping - bloating - diarrhea
eat well & save money,” windigo first nations council back to top section six budget-wise shopping introduction whether food is ordered from a supplier or bought at a grocery store, it is important to build the menu around nutritious and budget-wise buys.
cards general healthy recipes - seasonal recipes, foodland ontario - dietitians of canada - the basic shelf cookbook, city of york health unit, 2004 (low-cost recipes) - suppertime survival, lynn roblin and bev callaghan - “northern ontario:
children and youth who are forced or pressured (e.g. clean their plates) to  eat may lose touch with their body’s natural appetite control.
for all children and youth, become familiar with individual behavioural issues, common challenges and side effects of medication, and monitor them closely to watch for what might be affecting their food intake.
behaviours and approaches the following examples are provided to illustrate possible strategies for dealing with food challenges.
many outgrow certain allergies, such as egg and milk allergies.
the stew could be served with bannock or fry bread and milk.
healthy eating for children and youth - healthy eating basics - healthy food choices - how much food do children and youth need?
cooked ground meats are drained of excess fat.
some aboriginal people may not eat any traditional foods at all.
all children and youth should be served the same healthy food choices at mealtimes.
be sure to provide at least the minimum number of servings of grain products each day.
follow these guidelines for healthy meals and snacks: - breakfast – foods from at least three food groups - lunch and dinner – foods from four food groups - snacks – foods from at least two food groups meals and snacks should be served at regular times (as much as possible) each day.
for more information teens who are interested in finding out more about food, physical activity  and healthy weights can visitteenshealth, a credible website designed  specifically for teens.
if you notice that the vegetarian diet is leading to more extreme food restrictions or behaviours, determine the appropriate response through consultation with relevant individuals, e.g., parents/ guardians (if possible), doctor, nurse practitioner and case manager, and aregistered dietitian who specializes in vegetarianism and eating disorders.
there is a good variety of well-matched flavours, colours, temperatures and textures (cooked, raw, crispy, crunchy, chewy, smooth/chunky consistencies) and shapes (shredded, in strips, cubes, chunks and slices of different sizes).
speak to a registered dietitian.
compare the prices of canned products using unit pricing to find the best buy.
your child’s weight – helping without harming by ellyn  satter, 2005.
while studies are limited and not conclusive, some research shows that some children may react negatively to food dyes and preservatives in food.
100% pure unsweetened juice is healthier than a fruit drink or punch.
assuming that no specific issues or responses related to medications, medical conditions, special needs or mental health issues have been identified, the ideas provided here, if appropriate to a particular licensed residential setting, can help handle everyday situations in a positive way.
good to know obesity and diabetes are major health concerns for aboriginal  children.
talk with a doctor, nurse practitioner or registered dietitian if the child will not drink milk.
the following list is not exhaustive but provides some examples of behaviour that may indicate the need to work with qualified professionals, the child or youth’s case manager and/or the parents or guardians to identify any medical, medication-related or mental health issues and develop a plan for response: - hoarding/hiding extra food - refusing to eat at all or eating very little - eating without a sense of control – excessive overeating; demanding food between meals and snack times - being highly sensitive to certain tastes or textures - extremely picky eating (only eats a few foods) - signs of malnutrition and/or dehydration including weight loss, lethargy or poor concentration - possible signs of eating disorders, such as weight fluctuations, unusual eating habits and excessive concerns about weight issues back to top positive mealtime checklist
frozen pizzas - choose vegetarian, chicken and other types with less meat - add extra sliced vegetables or fruit e.g., canned pineapple (drained) or sliced green pepper - serve with a salad or raw vegetables - make pizza using pizza dough, pre-made crusts or wholewheat tortillas; if appropriate, have children and youth make individual pizzas - use extra vegetable or fruit toppings and lower-fat meats (such as cooked chicken)
this is a great way for youth to learn about cooking.
the “healthy foods to serve every day”
the food guide website is an excellent resource, covering everything from serving sizes and healthier choices to meal and snack suggestions.
traditional foods are more often included in  special ceremonies or celebrations (e.g., harvest feast).
- saves money – take advantage of store specials and seasonal produce, rely more on wholesome foods that are less costly and more nutritious than convenience foods such as frozen pizzas, and use leftovers to minimize wasted food.
the weight of the world, a video by the canadian broadcasting  corporation and david suzuki.
a child’s or youth’s appetite will vary naturally depending on: - growth and development stage (growth spurts) - gender and age (males need more calories) - time of day - how active or tired he or she is note: some children and youth may eat more than they need for a variety of physical, social and psychological reasons.
good to know obesity and diabetes are major health concerns for aboriginal children.
- contact the local aboriginal health access centre.
that’s why the food guide recommends that at least half of our grain product choices be whole-grain.
- find your local community health centre.
- make regular mealtimes a priority.
- buy fresh and store it right.
back to top healthy eating basics
good to know save a lot by making your own baked goods and “treats.”
in this section you will find: - tips for success - simple food-related activities back to top tips for success
- 70% of children do not eat the recommended five servings of vegetables and fruit*.
forbidding foods like cookies and candy can actually make children and  youth want them more.
approach: let the child have his or her “favourite food” as long as it belongs to one of the four food groups.
there are web sites linked to and from this tool kit that are operated or created by or for organizations outside of the government of ontario.
these languages reflect the nation’s top 10 non-official languages spoken in the homes of recent immigrants.
at least one food item that children and youth are known to like is available, even if it is just bread, pasta, rice or potatoes.
here are a few helpful tips: - serve food in attractive ways.
if food will be purchased at a grocery store (as opposed to ordering it, as a larger facility may do), organize the list according to the store layout to save time when shopping.
call the local public health unit and ask to speak with a registered  dietitian.
- hard cheeses - tofu - beans, peas, lentils - hummus - peanut butter, nut butters - nuts, seeds (plain, unsalted) - fish**, seafood - canned light tuna, sardines, salmon (in water)
for definitions, symptoms and strategies for dealing with clinical eating disorders and disordered eating, see thenational eating disorder information centre (nedic).
breakfast cereals save by buying… - no name” brands - larger packages - large flake or quick cook oatmeal, red river or cream of wheat cereals - unsweetened instead of sweetened cereals tips!
a diet that is high in sugary snacks likely lacks nutrients required to feed a child’s or youth’s body and brain, such as protein and essential fats.
while the ministry has attempted to verify the accuracy of the information contained in this tool kit, users should not rely solely on this information to make decisions regarding children and youth in residential care.
let children and youth serve themselves so they are in control of what and how much they eat.
refer to “section six: budget-wise shopping” for additional ideas.
more readily available alternatives may include farm-raised  animals such as elk, deer and bison.
note: obese children and youth may require a medically supervised diet.
pick your own wild berries to eat fresh or freeze.
approach: milk can be filling, and too much can spoil the child’s appetite for other healthy foods.
- wild plant foods are used sometimes and may include greens (e.g., fiddleheads), berries (e.g., blueberries, strawberries and raspberries) and wild rice.
even so, they may not be able to comprehend the severity or impact of their food choices (e.g., eating a chocolate bar that contains nuts) on another child or youth.
at the library, look for the book “you eat what you are: people, culture & food traditions”, enlarged 2nd edition, by thelma barer-stein (1999, toronto, ontario: firefly books).
in this section you will find: - healthy eating basics - healthy food choices - how much food do children and youth need?
cuts of meat save by buying… - stew meat, shoulder (pork), chuck/blade, brisket point (less tender), cross rib, sirloin tip, outside round or bottom, inside round or organ meat - when meat is on sale - regular ground beef for recipes such as spaghetti sauce, chili con carne and shepherd’s pie (drain and rinse cooked ground beef to lower fat content) tips!
keep a record of the recipes in a booklet that each child and youth can keep.
- it feels like something is poking my tongue.
look for “whole grain, whole-wheat flour” as the first ingredient on the label.
contact the local aboriginal health access centre.
“tips for raising kids with healthy weights,”eatright ontario.
conversely, praising children and youth for eating everything on their plate may result in overeating as they try to earn approval – and that can lead to overweight.
look for these foods on special.
read “healthier choices for multicultural cuisines,” eatright  ontario.
for more information - where appropriate, consider linking with local aboriginal groups and/or theontario federation of indian friendship centres so that children and youth can participate in cultural events at locations where traditional foods are often prepared and served by staff.
specific approaches for dealing with such cases should be discussed with a health care or rehabilitation professional.
- try the dietitians of canada’s “let’s make a meal!”
- store ready-to-eat foods above raw foods to prevent cross-contamination.
moosewood restaurant cooks for a crowd: recipes with a vegetarian emphasis for 24 or more.
it is found mostly in processed foods such as: - hard margarine, shortening and vegetable ghee - baked goods, such as crackers, muffins, donuts, cookies, breads, cakes, pies and tortillas - packaged snacks, such as popcorn, granola bars with chocolate or creamy toppings, and hot chocolate - ready-to-eat and frozen foods, such as pizza pockets, waffles, toaster pastries, burritos, frozen meals and desserts - “fast food,” such as deep-fried fish sandwiches, french fries and chicken fingers - salad dressings and dips - packaged convenience foods, such as rice and pasta mixtures, taco shells, cake mixes, pie crusts, icing, instant noodles and pudding trans fat also occurs naturally in small amounts in some meat (e.g., beef and lamb) and dairy, but it is not known to be as harmful as the processed type of trans fat.
beyond the obvious physical signs (swelling, hives, etc.), some children experiencing a reaction will put their hands in their mouth, or pull or scratch at their tongue.
for more information where appropriate, consider linking with local aboriginal groups and/or  theontario federation of indian friendship centres so that children and youth  can participate in cultural events at locations where traditional foods are  often prepared and served by staff.
consult a registered dietitian, doctor or nurse practitioner if body image issues arise.
translated directly from the 2007 eating well with canada’s food guide, these resources are available in arabic, chinese, farsi (persian), korean, punjabi, russian, spanish, tagalog, tamil, and urdu.
boys may get into unhealthy habits such as: taking protein supplements steroid use binge eating make sure to have positive body discussions with teen boys and watch them  for unhealthy dieting habits.
if you notice that the vegetarian diet is leading to more extreme food  restrictions or behaviours, determine the appropriate response through  consultation with relevant individuals, e.g., parents/ guardians (if possible),  doctor, nurse practitioner and case manager, and aregistered dietitian who  specializes in vegetarianism and eating disorders.
calling a food “bad” or “fattening” can cause a child or youth to feel guilt or shame.
foods that contain large amounts of sugar, such as soft drinks, candies and other sweet foods, also contain artificial colours and preservatives, which may cause behavioural changes in some children.
- meats should be easy to chew.
online food safety video (both dial up and broadband versions) that may be appropriate for youth and service providers.
for children and youth who might be overweight or obese, consider these suggestions: - offer healthy food choices.
when a new food is introduced, it is served alongside some familiar and well-liked foods.
to cut down on the amount of fat in recipes, use low-fat yogurt instead of sour cream.
traditional food choices depend on the aboriginal group as well as the region of ontario from which the child or youth came.
it has more fibre than white flour and is your best nutritional value.
vegetarian meal options are offered as needed.
teaching children and youth to prepare their own food also gives them a sense of accomplishment, which can boost their self-esteem.
where appropriate, let children and youth determine how much to eat.
in our efforts to encourage children and youth to eat well, we may actually be pressuring them to eat.
try meats in sauces or cut into bite-sized pieces.
consult a registered dietitian, doctor or nurse  practitioner if body image issues arise.
limit milk if the child is drinking more than 3 cups a day.
- eat at the table with no tv, phones or toys.
- go online for information about healthy eating that children and youth can explore, visit: - notgonnakillyou.ca, government of ontario and the ontario ministry of health (healthy eating and active living information and tips, games and activities for youth)
research also shows that children who eat breakfast: - are able to concentrate better in class - are absent from school less often - have fewer behavioural issues at school - tend to have healthier diets overall - are less likely to be overweight for more information on healthy breakfast ideas, see “section five: menu planning – the basics.”
the best sources are: - fatty fish: canned salmon, herring and halibut.
females develop earlier than males, but nutrient needs for both sexes are still high – a teenaged boy may need more food than the average adult.
children and youth who feel good about themselves are less likely to diet.
thefood guides’ recommendations are designed to help give children and youth the energy and nutrients they need to grow, develop and thrive.
online resources dietitians of canada canada’s physical activity guide for children canadian diabetes association nutrition labelling education – healthy eating is in store for you 5 to 10 a day vegetable and fruit campaign foodland ontario download the healthy eating matters printable pdf back to top topics - aboriginal children and youth - adoption - children's aid - early childhood - financial help - school snacks and meals - special needs - autism - developmental disabilities - disabilities - mental health - rehabilitation - respite - special services at home - youth and the law - youth opportunities explore government contacts - contact us - telephone directory - serviceontario centres - mpps contact us | accessibility | privacy | help | site map © queen's printer for ontario, 2010 | important notices last modified: october 26th, 2011
at the same time, physical activity levels have decreased as video-game playing  and tv viewing have increased.
food intolerance is a sensitivity reaction to food that does not involve an immune-system response.
- go online and look up cultural calendars to find out about festivals and celebrations.
the child drinks a lot of milk.
choosing more wholesome, natural foods over highly processed foods also provides a good example for children and youth of how to eat right on a budget.
food allergies occur in about six percent of young children.
clean - anything that touches food, including hands, is a source of bacteria that could make someone ill.
- it feels like a bump is on the back of my tongue/throat.
children and youth need 90 minutes of  physical activity every day.
- two thumbs are a serving of hard cheese - a cupped hand is a serving of beans, lentils or breakfast cereal - a fist is about 1 cup (a serving of lettuce-based salad)
child of mine: feeding with love and good sense by ellyn satter, 2000.
if a child or youth is suspected to have a food allergy or intolerance, he or she should see a doctor for a reliable allergy test.
frozen veggies can take the place of mushrooms.
professional help may be required if a child’s or youth’s dieting  has gone too far, or if these early warning signs are noticed: the child or youth over- or underestimates the size of his or her body,  and is ashamed by his or her appearance, size, height or physical maturity talks negatively about parts of his or her body talks about feeling “fat” or “ugly” overdoes physical activity
both obesity and aboriginal ancestry are risk factors for diabetes.
back to top aboriginal children and youth – nutrition and traditional foods just as with other cultures, there are various traditions followed by different aboriginal groups across ontario.
he or she may be lactose intolerant.
however, eating sugar actually makes a person feel sleepy because it stimulates the production of serotonin, a “sleep chemical,” in the brain.
read “guide to  understanding halal foods,” toronto public health.
buy poultry with skin on and bone in as it is less expensive.
by talking to children and youth, you can discover what traditions are important to them and which foods have special meaning as comfort or celebration foods.
meals and snacks are set for the same times each day.
for more information: - take a virtual grocery store tour at nutrition labelling education centre , canadian diabetes association and dietitians of canada - “food labels” - health canada - “food labelling & nutrient content”, eatright ontario (includes common questions about allergies, food labels and trans fat)
- the good food box program is a non-profit program that distributes high quality fresh fruit and vegetables at various locations across the province, at a low cost.
note: if a child or youth loses or gains weight rapidly  without apparent cause, medical attention is required.
meals are appealing and respect lifestyles, culture and religion
some centres employ registered dietitians or other  health-care providers who can assist with planning healthy and culturally  appropriate meals and snacks for aboriginal children and youth.
this easy-to-use tool kit includes basic food and nutrition information, tips and suggestions, as well as links to more information.
they include: anorexia nervosa - individuals are obsessed with controlling their eating  in an attempt to control their lives; starvation-type dieting with significant  weight loss is typical bulimia nervosa – individuals binge eat and purge in cycles, and  they are driven by a desire to regulate feelings; purging methods may include  vomiting, laxatives, enemas or diuretics, excessive exercise, dieting and  skipping meals binge eating disorder – individuals eat excessive amounts of food  at one time, usually without compensating eating disorder not otherwise specified – individuals experience a  mix of the above clinical eating disorders adapted from the national eating disorder information centre (nedic)
discuss the reasoning for their choice and ensure that vegetarian teens are still eating regular meals and snacks.
amounts of food served children and youth are provided with enough food to at least satisfy the food guide recommendations.
limit higher-fat, less-nutritious foods (e.g., chips, cookies, ice cream).
- smaller-scale facilities and homes can check grocery store flyers for specials to include in the menu plan.
- regularly wash dishcloths and towels with hot, soapy water.
- “no dessert until you eat your meat.”
wash hands and surfaces often.
when it comes to fat: - for young children, high-fat food group selections that are nutritious, such as hard cheeses and peanut and almond butters, should not be limited.
a food allergy is a response of the immune system to a protein in a specific food.
adapted from ottawa public health.
for more information, see section seven: safe food handling.
- check local libraries for multicultural cookbooks, or search for recipes online.
cooking with children and youth offers other benefits as well: - meals get to the table more quickly - children and youth are more likely to eat what they helped plan and prepare - cooking can encourage children and youth to eat more vegetables and fruit and try new foods and recipes - more people sharing in the tasks of meal preparation may reduce the need for expensive convenience foods
- serve food family-style (where appropriate).
cultural and religious food habits and restrictions are respected.
overweight children and youth should grow into a healthy weight – not lose weight.
meat alternatives such as beans, chickpeas, soybeans, lentils, eggs and tofu are served often (try for two or three times a week or more).
residential care settings are diverse, and the needs of the children and youth within those settings can vary.
boil the bones to make soup stock.
a doctor or nurse  practitioner can monitor a child’s or youth’s weight to see how it  is changing over time – that is what counts, not a single measurement at  one point in time.
contact the local public health department for more information about regulated food handling, hygiene and food safety practices.
although it is not possible in every situation, having children and youth assist in all aspects of food preparation – planning, shopping, cooking and cleaning up – helps teach life skills including: - budgeting and money management (shopping, comparing food prices) - math and language skills (measuring, counting, reading recipes) - responsibility - safety and cleanliness - social skills (working together)
- teach children that healthy bodies come in all shapes and sizes, and that children grow at different rates.
explore canada’s food guide’s sample menus for children and youth to get an idea of how much food a child or youth might eat in a day.
the reaction can range from mild to severe.
store vegetables and fruit properly so they will not spoil too quickly.
it is important to provide children and youth in licensed residential settings with nutritious foods in appropriate amounts to support their mental, physical and emotional health and well-being.
for recipe ideas, consultthe kids’ multicultural cookbook: food & fun around the worldby deanna f. cook, 1995.
for more information resources for specific topics are found within the tool kit.
for example, some east asian cultures enjoy moon cakes during mid-autumn festival
- call the local public health unit and ask to speak with a registered dietitian.
they can help stretch food dollars and may make sense in some settings as part of youth programming.
young children are especially at risk for serious health problems from food poisoning.
try the sample menu planning form.
keep offering other healthy choices at each meal.
serve with vegetables and dip, milk and oatmeal cookies for dessert.
back to top when in doubt, throw it out!
the most important thing to do: ask the children and youth about their cultural or religious food  traditions or restrictions.
back to top aboriginal children and youth – nutrition and traditional foods just as with other cultures, there are various traditions followed by  different aboriginal groups across ontario.
my tongue is hot (or burning).
adapted from eat right be active a guide for parents and caregivers of children ages 6-8, nutrition resource centre, toronto, ontario, 2007 back to top healthy meals, snacks and drinks meals and snacks should provide a variety of nutritious choices from the four food groups.
canada’s food guide is available in 10 languages in addition to  english and french.
approach: teens’ internal clocks are set differently – they might not be able to get up early enough to eat breakfast.
some children and youth may have challenges with certain textures, colours, smells or hot and cold temperatures.
- just for you - first nations and inuit health information, health canada - “native foods and nutrition,” available (free) from health canada publications, 1-866-225-0709 - aboriginal diabetes initiative: recipes and food facts cards - “a week of healthy meals and recipes,” windigo first nations council - “stocking a pantry to create healthy meals – anytime!”, windigo first nations council - “northern ontario: eat well & save money,” windigo first nations council back to top section five menu planning – the basics introduction preparing budget-wise, healthy meals and snacks that are appealing to children and youth takes some planning.
for more information on healthy meals and snacks, see “section five: menu planning – the basics.”
- model good habits.
- reminder: - breakfast – food from at least three food groups - lunch and dinner – food from four food groups - snacks – food from at least two food groups - have water for drinking available at all times - refer to page 8 for a list of healthy foods to serve most often.
these tips can help make the process easier in many licensed residential settings: menu planner - regularly ask for input from the children and youth (if appropriate).
apple pie oatmeal top oatmeal with chopped apples or applesauce, sprinkle with cinnamon, and serve with warmed chocolate milk or chocolate fortified soy beverage.
adapted from community food advisors resource binder, ontario public health association, 2004, and canadian partnership for consumer food and safety education good to know use leftovers before they spoil.
- offer finger foods and foods that can be served separately.
margarines containing trans fats are not served.
for example, plain pasta is a favourite of many preschoolers.
clinical eating disorders that are recognized as medical conditions are defined by strict criteria.
- field trips if appropriate, go on a trip to the local farmers’ market.
this section will be especially helpful  for those newer to menu planning; however, everyone will find the menu planning  checklist and fast food makeovers of interest.
refer to “section three: special nutrition considerations” for more about helping youth who are struggling with weight issues.
- list the meals and snacks you often serve (this can be a handy reference for future planning).
mixed dishes may be less appealing to children at this age.
the beginner’s guide to eating disorders recovery by nancy j. kolodny, 2004.
the following resources provide basic healthy eating information.
only 100% unsweetened juice counts as a serving of vegetables and fruit.
children can visitkidshealth.
breads save by buying… - day-old breads and buns (if they get stale, heat in the oven for a short time to make into croutons or bread crumbs) - “no name” brands - bread on special (it can be frozen for up to two months) - pre-packaged bagels and rolls tips!
menu planning checklist overall considerations children and youth have been consulted in developing this menu plan (if appropriate).
consider involving the child/youth at this stage for some hands-on life skills training.
beans, corn and squash – known as the “three sisters”  – have traditionally been a staple in many regions of ontario.
adapted from the canadian health network, public health agency of canada
preschoolers need 2 cups of milk or fortified soy beverage each day.
for more information teens who are interested in finding out more about food, physical activity and healthy weights can visitteenshealth, a credible website designed specifically for teens.
when feeding children and youth with food allergies or intolerances, help minimize risks by: - using the recommendations/directions provided by a registered dietitian to help plan appropriate, safe meals that will meet a child’s or youth’s nutritional needs.
children and youth who are anxious, upset or feeling unsafe will not eat well.
try the following suggestions when dealing with children and youth who seem preoccupied with their weight or are dieting: - discuss why they are dieting
serve small portions, provide snacks about two hours before mealtimes, and offer only water between meals and snacks since even juice or milk can spoil a child’s appetite for the next meal or snack time.
good to know teach children and youth how all foods can fit into a healthy diet.
instead, provide occasional treats in reasonable portion  sizes.
early warning signs when dealing with eating disorders, dieting and disordered eating, caution is needed to avoid contributing further to mental and physical health problems.
snacks include foods from at least two food groups.
speak to someone from the ontario federation of indian friendship centres.
it can be triggered by a very small amount of food, and it can occur very quickly after eating that food.
in ontario, call toll-free, 1-877-510-510-2, monday through friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. eastern time.
add your own flavourings.
children and youth who skip meals or go hungry for long periods during the day will: - be more irritable and moody - have a hard time paying attention and focusing - have less energy to play and participate in daily routines serve healthy foods.
chill - after shopping or cooking, refrigerate or freeze perishables, prepared foods and leftovers within two hours.
call the eatright ontario toll-free information service at 1-877-510-510-2, monday to friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. eastern time, or visit eatright ontario to email your question.
limit drinks made from crystals, and fruit drinks that have these words on the package: - drink - punch - cocktail - -ade - beverage these fruit drinks do not count as a serving of vegetables and fruit.
there is no one ideal weight for children and youth, especially since they are continually growing and changing as part of normal development.
these health concerns have arisen from reduced access to traditional diets based on hunting, gathering and fishing, sedentary lifestyles and increased consumption of refined, higher-calorie foods and drinks.
serve with a fruity smoothie.
- “how do you know you don’t like it unless you try it?”
- in a community garden, people get together to grow vegetables and herbs on shared land.
- higher-fat treats and fast foods that provide few nutrients (e.g., chips, french fries, chocolate) should be limited for both age groups.
they may be able to tell you what food traditions (if any) they observed in their families, as well as some of their favourite traditional foods.
the government of ontario does not assume and is not responsible for any liability whatsoever for the linking of any of these linked web sites, the operation or content (including the right to display such information) of any of the linked web sites, nor for any of the information, interpretation, comments or opinions expressed in any of the linked web sites.
include protein when planning meals and snacks (e.g., meat, legumes, peanut butter, cheese, and yogurt).
pasta, rice, flour, oatmeal, dried fruit, nuts, seeds and beans may be better buys in bulk.
cooking times and temperatures vary for different meats and poultry.
each weekly menu includes at least two food guide servings (½ cup x 2) oflow-mercury fish (light canned tuna, canned salmon, char, herring, mackerel, sardines and trout).
store foods properly at home.
juice is limited each day to no more than ½ to 1 cup.
here are some basic strategies that may help: serve meals and snacks at regular times.
buy foods in their natural state as much as possible for better nutrition and value.
back to top food allergies and intolerances food allergy – what is it?
in some  regions, these foods will be more difficult to obtain and may not be practical.
acknowledgments healthy eating matters was written by registered dietitians and nutrition consultantscarol harrison, basc, rd and shannon crocker , msc, rd.
avoid it as much as possible.
more readily available alternatives may include farm-raised animals such as elk, deer and bison.
you can order this video and a support guide (with activities).
serve three meals and two or three snacks at the same times each day, no longer than two to three hours apart for preschoolers and three to four hours apart for older children and youth.
add a big spoonful of yogurt in the centre.
tips: - start by slotting in the meals and snacks listed in step 2 above.
for aboriginal children and youth who are obese or have diabetes, consult a  registered dietitian to plan appropriate meals and snacks.
- involve children and youth (if possible).
fishing can be an inexpensive way to get fish.
every day, serve at least one dark-green vegetable (broccoli, romaine lettuce and spinach) and one orange vegetable (carrots, sweet potatoes, winter squash or pumpkin; apricots, cantaloupes, mangoes, nectarines, papaya and peaches also contain vitamin a and can be chosen instead of one orange vegetable).
in some children and youth, simple contact with an allergic food can cause a severe reaction.
cereals made from whole wheat or bran (oat, wheat, corn) are good sources of fibre.
back to top sample menu plans - review the sample one-week aboriginal menu plan along with four recipes.
right be active a guide for parents and caregivers of children ages 6-8, nutrition resource centre, toronto, ontario, 2007
dry or reconstituted skim milk powder can add a nutritious boost to baking and is less expensive than fluid milk.
the child wants to snack all day and then won’t eat supper.
replace screen time (tv, computer, video games) with supervised outdoor play or sports.
serve with salsa and lower-sodium vegetable juice.
approach: during the preschool years, growth and consequently appetite may slow down.
for more information your child’s weight – helping without harming by ellyn  satter, 2005.
they are  often cooked together (e.g., “three sisters soup”) bannock is a non-traditional bread that is commonly enjoyed.
click on “health units,” then “ontario’s health units.”
for example: whole grains (e.g., whole-wheat pasta, brown rice, whole grain, whole-wheat bread) provide carbohydrates that can actually have a calming effect.
if an allergic reaction is suspected, get medical help immediately.
it is important to promote healthy eating and physical activity for all children and youth at a licensed residential setting.
most children and youth readily eat enough fruit, but getting vegetable servings can be more difficult.
before cooking, teach children and youth the rules of the kitchen, and which tools and equipment they can use and which ones are off-limits.
- popcorn, peanuts, nuts and hard candies – do not serve these to young children - soft breads, muffins or cakes (they can form a sticky ball)
common food allergy symptoms include: - itching - rashes - hives - chest tightness - wheezing - swelling of the face, tongue, lips, eyes and/or throat - tingling lips - stomach cramps - diarrhea - vomiting severe allergic reactions (anaphylaxis) are rare.
teens who are active (60 minutes or more each day) and/or going through a growth spurt may need more servings.
be aware that lactose intolerance is more common amongst people of aboriginal, asian, and african descent.
spoiled food is wasted money.
unlike a milk allergy, where milk products must be avoided completely, a child or youth with lactose intolerance can usually still eat small amounts of milk products with meals, such as ½ to 1 cup of milk, hard cheese and yogurt made with active cultures (read the label to be sure).
explore the food guides, order additional copies, and help children and youth create their own personal food guideonline.
palo alto, california: bull publishing.
these linked web sites may or may not be available in french.
(self-help guide for youth and young adults)
the child wants to eat the same food all the time.
store-bought varieties are good substitutes.
for example, some east asian cultures enjoy moon cakes during  mid-autumn festival
- whole grains (e.g., brown rice, oatmeal, whole grain breads) have 80% more disease-fighting compounds than refined grains (e.g., white bread).
in most cases,  this can be achieved through healthy eating and daily physical activity.
be sure to provide healthy choices from the food groups whenever possible.
- buy pre-bagged food.
adapted from eat right be active a guide for parents and caregivers of children ages 6-8, nutrition resource centre, toronto, ontario, 2007 feeding youth aged 14-18 healthy eating fuels growth, and also helps maintain a healthy body weight.
eating disorders can have a serious negative impact on overall health and can even cause death.
this encyclopedia examines the history and food traditions of more than 170 ethno-cultural groups in 73 countries.
snacks should: - satisfy hunger between meals (smaller stomachs and growth spurts require more frequent eating) - provide energy and nutrients to fuel activity, growth and development - include food group selections that are missed at mealtimes, such as vegetables and fruit, and milk and alternatives children and youth who are overweight or obese still require snacks; make sure that they are nutritious food group choices and amounts are appropriate.
find out what programs  and services are available.
also see “section three: special nutrition considerations” – food and behaviour.
use healthier fats when baking and cooking.
step 3: choose the brand with fewer calories and less sodium, saturated fat and trans fat.
- rotate food so that older products are used first.
resources for research call eatright ontario.
madison, wisconsin: kelcy press.
children and youth who don’t eat five servings of vegetables and fruit are more likely to be overweight, increasing their risk for chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes, cancer and heart disease.
they may  be able to tell you what food traditions (if any) they observed in their  families, as well as some of their favourite traditional foods.
they are often cooked together (e.g., “three sisters soup”) - bannock is a non-traditional bread that is commonly enjoyed.
youth may be interested in trying this as well.
this tool kit was prepared exclusively for the ministry of children and youth services by carol harrison, basc, rd and shannon crocker, msc, rd, registered dietitians and nutrition consultants.
this will help make introducing new foods easier on everyone.
caffeine is a drug, and it can cause symptoms similar to those experienced by people under stress, such as irritability, anxiety, restlessness and nervousness.
it doesn’t take much caffeinated cola, energy drink or coffee for a child or youth to feel the impact.
taking in too few calories and nutrients can have serious negative effects on  their health.
for children and youth with special needs, food rules and routines may need to be individually determined in consultation with appropriate professionals, the individual and other family members (if possible), and made a part of the child’s or youth’s plan of care.
those organizations are solely responsible for the operation and information (including the right to display such information) found on their respective web sites.
- flavours and recipes tend to be simple and not highly spiced; seasoning such as garlic, herbs, curry, salt and pepper are not commonly used.
the ideas listed below may help make mealtimes positive, establish appropriate roles, resolve conflicts over food, and help children and youth feel safe and relaxed.
cooking with skim milk powder counts too.
rates of overweight and obesity have increased for youth.
diabetes can lead to premature blindness, kidney failure, amputation (loss of limbs) and heart disease.
for example, a child might eat 1 tbsp of peanut butter in the morning and a soft-boiled egg at lunch (each is half a serving) to make one serving of meat and alternatives.
boys may get into unhealthy habits such as: - taking protein supplements - steroid use - binge eating make sure to have positive body discussions with teen boys and watch them for unhealthy dieting habits.
use this tool kit as a supportive guide the purpose of this tool kit is to support licensed residential service providers in meeting the nutritional needs of children and youth (aged 3 to 18)
- teenshealth, nemours foundation (a website designed by health professionals specifically for teens) - kidshealth, nemours foundation (a website designed by health professionals specifically for children to help them learn to take care of their body) - my food guide, health canada (help children and youth create their own personal food guide online)
the child wants the same lunch every day.
children who eat breakfast generally have a higher intake of vitamins, minerals and other nutrients that can help fuel active learning and play.
the content of the tool kit is provided by the ministry of children and youth services for informational purposes only and should not be taken as advice or recommendations for any particular decision regarding a child or youth in residential care.
breakfast to go mix and match items, such as a chunk of cheese, whole-grain crackers/pita/muffin/ bagel, canned fruit, a reusable container with milk or juice, a hard-cooked egg or a plain granola bar.
check for “best before” dates – if the date has passed, throw it out.
the  rates of type 2 diabetes in aboriginal children and youth have increased  dramatically over the past two decades.
add them to soups, pasta sauces and salads.
you ate all your peas.”
is excessively concerned about weight, shape and calories restricts food intake or strictly avoids certain foods, particularly  those considered “fattening” adopts unusual eating habits, skips meals or often says “i’m  not hungry”
additionalalternative sources of dietary calcium and vitamin d, such as fortified orange juice, may be necessary.
considering the cultural and religious needs of children and youth is  essential to helping them adapt, feel accepted and build their self-esteem.
season:______________________________ __ smmer __fall __
for definitions, symptoms and strategies for dealing with clinical  eating disorders and disordered eating, see thenational eating disorder  information centre (nedic).
some centres employ registered dietitians or other health-care providers who can assist with planning healthy and culturally appropriate meals and snacks for aboriginal children and youth.
healthy meals and snacks breakfasts include foods from at least three food groups.
use of the tool kit is voluntary.
- where appropriate, older children can help pack their own lunches and prepare snacks.
only water is served between meals and snacks (to avoid spoiling appetites).
in this section you will find: - how to read labels to make better choices - best buys within each food group - top five tips for saving money while you shop - community food programs that may help with budget-wise healthy food choices good to know less costly foods are often more nutritious.
the child does not want to drink milk.
quick stir-fry stir-fry frozen mixed asian vegetables and small chunks of tofu.
translated directly from the 2007 eating well with  canada’s food guide, these resources are available in arabic, chinese,  farsi (persian), korean, punjabi, russian, spanish, tagalog, tamil, and urdu.
visible fat/skin is removed from meats and poultry before cooking.
warm up some canned beans in tomato sauce, then serve with whole-grain toast.
studies show that there has been an increase in body image concerns among  males.
special dietary needs (e.g., allergies) and cultural and religious choices should also be considered.
the video uses lively animation and hard-hitting science to  help children and teens understand the obesity epidemic.
the teen years mean periods of rapid growth and sexual maturity.
cream cheese and cottage cheese are less nutritious and are served less often.
seasonal vegetables and fruit are offered for great taste and good food value.
taking in too few calories and nutrients can have serious negative effects on their health.
for more information - “school lunch your kids will munch,” thunder bay district health unit - “lunches that make the grade,” eatright ontario ( ideas, safe lunches, how to make packing lunches easier) - “packing healthy school lunches and snacks faqs,” eatright ontario, - “fast and easy meal ideas,” health canada - “smart snacking,” health canada - “a week of healthy meals and recipes,” windigo first nations council ( aboriginal-specific brochure that folds out to illustrate what a week of healthy meals could look like; some recipes are provided on the back) - questions and answers on bottled water, health canada aboriginal recipes - aboriginal diabetes initiative: recipes and food facts
putting a child or youth on a scale regularly to check if he or she has lost or gained pounds could cause poor self-esteem and may lead to unhealthy dieting or food habits.
it is important to support a child or youth in this personal choice – find out from him or her which foods are included in their diet.
in this section you will find: - the benefits of menu planning - seven simple steps for menu planning - reproducible menu planning form - menu planning checklist - sample menu plans - fast food makeovers - meal and snack ideas back to top the benefits of menu planning investing a small amount of time in menu planning is well worth the effort.
emergency treatment for anaphylaxis is the immediate injection of adrenaline through an auto-injector device (epipen™) followed by further treatment at a hospital emergency room.
- review how to make a plan by health canada for tips on meal planning as well as sample meal plans for various ages.
- serve fewer e.g., three pieces instead of five - make homemade chicken nuggets or fingers, and bake instead of frying - slice cooked chicken breasts into strips and serve with lower-fat dipping sauces, such as tomato sauce, barbecue sauce or honey mustard dips french fries - choose frozen fries that are “baked not fried,” then bake in the oven on a nonstick pan with no added oil or salt - make potato skins – cut baked potatoes into quarters, then scoop out most of the cooked potato, brush the remaining potato with a bit of olive oil, sprinkle with garlic and parmesan cheese, and bake until golden - make homemade home fries: cut up potatoes (with the skin on) into fries, toss with a small amount of vegetable oil (e.g., canola) and bake in the oven, turning every five minutes until golden luncheon meats - use less meat and more vegetables (e.g., lettuce) and a thin slice of lower-fat cheese when making sandwiches - choose “light” varieties (reduced in fat and/or calories and sodium – compare nutrition facts labels) - use leftover roast beef, venison, pork, chicken or turkey instead of luncheon meats - try canned tuna, chicken or salmon mixed with lemon juice and a bit of low-fat salad dressing back to top meal and snack ideas this section offers healthy, budget-wise meal and snack ideas that are child- and youth-friendly.
serve with sliced fruit and hot chocolate (made with skim milk powder).
this type of fat is necessary for normal development of the brain, eyes and nerves.
buy an amount that can reasonably be consumed before it spoils.
(try salsa, pepper or parmesan cheese instead.)
feeding children aged 3-5 young children should eat the same healthy foods as adults – just in smaller portions.
teens’ concerns about body weight and body image may result in dieting or a desire to be thinner or more muscular.
a doctor or nurse practitioner can monitor a child’s or youth’s weight to see how it is changing over time – that is what counts, not a single measurement at one point in time.
children and youth who are forced or pressured (e.g. clean their plates) to eat may lose touch with their body’s natural appetite control.
- saves time – make fewer last-minute trips to the grocery store.
simple school lunches – peanut-free* when packing lunches for a child or youth who attends school in ontario, chances are that it has to be peanut-free.
serve higher-fat food group foods less often or in smaller amounts, and balance them with lower-fat foods.
instead of buying them, where appropriate, involve children and youth in making treats they can enjoy in smaller amounts from time to time, such as: - date squares - bread pudding - carrot, banana or zucchini muffins - air-popped popcorn - trail mix (e.g., pretzels, dried cereal, seeds, dried fruit) - oatmeal raisin or peanut butter cookies back to top community food programs that may help with budget-wise healthy food choices consult the local public health unit to find out if these programs or similar ones are available or if it is possible to start one.
- review dietitians of canada’s healthy start for life - eating
they include: - anorexia nervosa - individuals are obsessed with controlling their eating in an attempt to control their lives; starvation-type dieting with significant weight loss is typical - bulimia nervosa – individuals binge eat and purge in cycles, and they are driven by a desire to regulate feelings; purging methods may include vomiting, laxatives, enemas or diuretics, excessive exercise, dieting and skipping meals - binge eating disorder – individuals eat excessive amounts of food at one time, usually without compensating - eating disorder not otherwise specified – individuals experience a mix of the above clinical eating disorders adapted from the national eating disorder information centre (nedic)
clinical eating disorders that are  recognized as medical conditions are defined by strict criteria.
(information about guiding children toward a healthy body weight  and a positive body image, from infancy through the turbulent teen years).
vegetables and fruit are served more often than 100% juice.
- avoid controlling what or how much children and youth eat.
there is no right or wrong way to go about menu planning.
adapted from eat right be active a guide for parents and caregivers of children ages 6-8, nutrition resource centre, toronto, ontario, 2007 back to top how much food do children and youth need?
- ensures meals meet special dietary needs – specific advice of a health-care professional can be accommodated (e.g., children with food allergies).
at times, it can be difficult to distinguish between developmentally appropriate behaviour related to food and more complex issues.
for more information - “backyard veggies & recipes for northern ontario,” windigo first nations council (a basic handbook that offers information on gardening in northern ontario, including recipes) - “how to eat well on a budget,” eatright ontario - “healthy shopping tips,” eatright ontario - “stretching your food dollars,” oregon state university ( a slide presentation that may be suitable for youth life-skills training) - foodland ontario, ontario ministry of agriculture food and rural affairs (information about seasonal produce, recipes and pick-your-own farms) back to top section seven safe food handling introduction all foods, including fruit and vegetables, have the potential to cause illness.
- find a registered dietitian in your area, dietitians of canada.
my tongue feels full (or heavy).
- read “healthier choices for multicultural cuisines,” eatright ontario.
for more information on healthy snack ideas, see “section five: menu planning – the basics.”
- make sure the refrigerator is set at a temperature of 4 degrees c or 40 degrees f, and keep the freezer at -18 c (0 f).
good to know get trustworthy advice about healthy eating.
whole-wheat pasta and brown rice provide more fibre than refined grains.
call eatright ontario’s toll-free telephone information service at 1-877-510-510-2, monday to friday from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. eastern time, or visiteatright ontario to email your question.
- serve at least one well-liked food at mealtimes.
offer a variety of foods for other meals and snacks to provide nutrients the child may be missing at lunch.
if that is not possible, serve appropriate child- or youth-sized portions with the option for seconds.
buy the freshest foods – check the “best before” dates.
a vegan is a vegetarian who follows a diet that does not include any foods of animal origin – no meat, poultry, fish, eggs, milk, cheese or other dairy products.
- in northern communities, carrots, potatoes, frozen mixed vegetables and corn are commonly available vegetables, while fresh apples, bananas, oranges, and frozen and canned fruit tend to be the more commonly available fruits.
- thaw frozen foods in the refrigerator – never on the counter.
* canadian community health survey, 2004 back to top healthy food choices most of the food served should be healthy choices from each food group with minimal processing.
here are a few simple tips to help things run smoothly: - keep recipes simple and have appropriate supervision in place - let the children and youth do as much as they can - make it fun
yet we know that many children and youth are not well nourished: - many are eating too many “junk” and processed foods and too few healthy foods like vegetables and fruits, milk and whole grains - children and youth who are hungry or poorly nourished are more irritable, lethargic and easily distracted - rates of overweight and obese children and youth in canada are at an all-time high - aboriginal children and youth are experiencing overweight and obesity rates two to three times greater than the already high rates found in the general population licensed residential settings have the ability to make a positive impact on the children and youth in their care; children and youth who develop life skills and healthy eating habits now are more likely to eat nutritious foods throughout their lifetime, thus reducing the risk of obesity and diseases such as diabetes, osteoporosis, heart disease and certain types of cancer.
your child’s weight – helping without harming by ellyn satter, 2005.
this dish could be served with a green salad and milk.
top with frozen berries, dried fruit (e.g., raisins), sunflower seeds, canned apricots or granola.
- clean, separate, cook and chill from ontario ministry of agriculture, food and rural affairs.
if the date has passed, throw it out.
this section will be especially helpful for those newer to menu planning; however, everyone will find the menu planning checklist and fast food makeovers of interest.
frozen and canned save by buying… - frozen vegetables and fruit in bags rather than boxes - peas, corn, green beans, mixed vegetables and spinach, which tend to be the best buys in frozen products - “no name” frozen or canned products or lower-priced brand-name products tips!
children and youth may suffer from: pica (eating non-food items) prader-willi syndrome (genetic disorder that causes insatiable appetite)
- write the purchase date on products that will be stored for a long period of time (e.g., cans or frozen foods) so they can be used within proper storage times.
a youth is vegetarian.
the linking to or from this site does not imply on the part of the government of ontario any endorsement or guarantee of any of the organizations or information (including the right to display such information) found on their respective web sites.
here are the reasons why: - just one can of caffeinated pop affects small children negatively (insomnia, headaches, irritability, nervousness) - research shows that a high intake of pop is associated with increased caloric intake and increased body weight - children and youth who drink pop are less likely to get enough calcium and vitamin d in their diets (because they drink less milk) - high intake of pop is associated with increased cavities what to drink sugary beverages like pop and fruit punch provide little more than sugar and should be limited.
use your own good judgment when applying this information, and always consult appropriate health professionals if you have questions.
adapted from contra costa child care council – health and nutrition back to top vegetarianism children and youth follow vegetarian diets for a variety of reasons, such as concern for the environment, a simple dislike of meat, or cultural or religious beliefs.
good to know too much sugar?
click on “find a centre near you.”
avoid bribing, rewarding, coaxing, guilting, punishing and any other form of pressure.
a vegan diet can be healthy if foods are chosen wisely and there is enough food to support growth, development and appetite.
for younger children, food is often served separately, and mixed dishes are introduced gradually over time.
children  and youth who feel good about themselves are less likely to diet.
for more on vegetarian diets, including how to meet nutritional needs,  visit: “vegetarianism faqs”, eatright ontario “meal planning for the vegetarian teen” , eatright ontario good to know what is the reason?
(recipes including stews, pastries, pasta dishes and holiday fare) the vegetarian resource group (provides information about vegetarianism and children, youth and adults, from nutritional needs to recipe ideas)
these children are less likely to be getting the calcium they need to develop strong, healthy bones.
thai noodles use whole-wheat spaghetti noodles if thai rice noodles are not available.
cheese save by buying… - “no name” and store-wrapped cheese - mild and medium cheese, which are cheaper than old cheese - a block of cheese rather than shredded cheese tips!
similarly, it is important to build cultural awareness of all children and youth by exposing everyone in the group or foster home to food from particular cultural backgrounds.
healthy snacking children and youth may need two or three healthy snacks that pack a nutritional punch rather than filling them up with “empty calories.”
speak to a registered dietitian for free.
canola, olive and soybean oils and soft margarines that are trans fat-free are used.
contain less fat, salt (sodium) and sugar and provide more vitamins, minerals and fibre.
- “no more bread until you eat some vegetables.”
for more information your child’s weight – helping without harming by ellyn satter, 2005.
adapted from dieting: information for parents, teachers and coaches,  caring for kids eating disorders eating disorders are not about food or vanity; they are coping strategies  to deal with deeper emotional problems.
lower-fat cooking methods (baking, broiling, grilling, steaming, roasting and poaching) are used most often.
for individuals who don’t drink milk or fortified soy beverage, speak with a registered dietitian about the need for dietary supplements.
there is the time, kitchen equipment and budget to follow through on this menu.
all children and youth should be served the same healthy  food choices at mealtimes.
national eating disorder information centre (nedic) ( this canadian  organization provides facts, tips and resources for disordered eating,  including a referral list for community treatment services and support groups;  call 1-866-633-4220 or 416-340-4156) back to top cultural considerations introduction
in northern communities, carrots, potatoes, frozen mixed vegetables and  corn are commonly available vegetables, while fresh apples, bananas, oranges,  and frozen and canned fruit tend to be the more commonly available fruits.
note: if a child or youth loses or gains weight rapidly without apparent cause, medical attention is required.
legumes are low in fat and rich in fibre.
(how to develop a healthy weight, including topics such as the feeding responsibilities of adults and children, the importance of not restricting foods for children who are overweight, and healthy food choices).
for more information about feeding children with behavioural issues, contact a registered dietitian.
“common eating problems and how to cope”, niagara region public health.
an obese child or youth should have a care plan developed by health-care professionals.
instead, provide occasional treats in reasonable portion sizes.
this is where you can usually find the healthy basics: vegetables and fruit, milk products, grain products and meats.
step 1: check the serving sizes on each brand to see if you are comparing similar amounts.
help children and youth understand that healthier choices give them energy to play, grow and learn, but also that all foods can be eaten and enjoyed – even treats.
approach: as long as the child’s lunch contains food group foods (e.g., a turkey sandwich, milk and an apple), it is acceptable for him or her to want the same thing every day.
in this section you will find: - food and behaviour - food allergies and intolerances - vegetarianism - healthy weights - dieting and eating disorders good to know special needs considerations children and youth with developmental disabilities, autism and other communication exceptionalities may exhibit varying food-related behaviours, preferences and sensitivities.
dinner chili baked potatoes top baked potatoes with vegetarian chili and shredded cheese.
instead, replace meat with alternatives or find interesting vegetarian  choices that the whole group can enjoy.
while symptoms of intolerance vary and may be mistaken for a food allergy, typically the response is gastrointestinal and caused by the body’s inability to break down certain components in food.
- food co-operatives and buying clubs can buy directly from a wholesaler to save money.
- traditional animal foods include foods from the land (e.g., moose, venison and rabbit), sky (e.g., goose or duck) and water (e.g., pickerel or white fish).
eliminating foods without proper guidance can lead to nutritional deficiencies and have a serious impact on health.
- keep open packages of dry products (cereal, flour, sugar) in airtight containers or plastic food storage bags.
- it feels like there are bugs in there (to describe itchy ears).
back to top section eight cooking with children and youth introduction involving children and youth in cooking at licensed residential settings can encourage healthy eating and good group communication.
where possible, recipes, such as soups and stews, can be adapted to  include wild meats, such as moose, venison and rabbit, instead of the meat  called for in the recipe (e.g., beef or chicken).
skip to content ontario.ca français home | news | about the ministry | contact us healthy eating matters food and nutrition toolkit for residential care settings download the healthy eating matters printable pdf