[associated press] filed under: food, health category: national buzz share on facebook!
more  from around the web: 'goodbye first love' review celebrate 4/20
so, when the united states department of agriculture threatened to take it off public school lunch menus, they did what many of us would have done in their position — they officially declared it a vegetable.
back in 1981, some people wanted ketchup reclassified from a condiment to a  vegetable, which would’ve allowed public schools to cut out a serving of  vegetables and still fulfill nutrition requirements for school lunches.
nutrition advocates are understandably upset.
“they are making sure  that two of the biggest problems in the school lunch program, pizza and french  fries, are untouched,” said margo wootan of the center for science in the  public interest.
we look back at the post-'seinfeld'  sitcoms listen live
by: shauna wright   |   november 20, 2011 usdagov, flickr members of congress love pizza as much as any of us.
congress says, ‘have some pizza’ — health check by:
congress says, ‘have some pizza’ —  health check
in | sign up follow on facebook follow on twitter subscribe via rss tip us - home - on air - news staff - show schedule - sports broadcast calendar - david settle - kari eakins - wesley kempton - listen - events - home show - laramie live - community calendar - mighty 1290 club - listen & win - contests - surveys - trivia - polls - games - help - join now - weather - contests - mighty 1290 club - keurig coffee maker - kindle fire need more veggies?
marcus mumford marries actress carey mulligan — and adele supposedly sang at the reception - explosions in the sky's second coachella 2012
but amy dawson taggart, director of a group called mission: readiness, made  up of retired generals advocating for healthier school lunches, scoffed at the  notion, saying, “it doesn’t take an advanced degree in nutrition to  call this a national disgrace.”
with 10 delicious photos of nachos - does the 'seinfeld' curse exist?
supported by the food companies that produce frozen pizzas for schools, the salt industry and potato growers, republicans on the house appropriations committee said they’re trying to “prevent overly burdensome and costly regulations and to provide greater flexibility for local school districts to improve the nutritional quality of meals.”
what’s the best way to lose weight?
via feeding  tube — is it safe?
but amy dawson taggart, director of a group called mission: readiness, made up of retired generals advocating for healthier school lunches, scoffed at the notion, saying, “it doesn’t take an advanced degree in nutrition to call this a national disgrace.”
with 10 delicious photos of nachos does the 'seinfeld' curse exist?
- what’s the best way to lose weight?
set brings stargazers to twitter - pulp fans rave about coachella 2012 weekend two performance via twitter - van halen's new earth day anthem, 'outta space' – lyrics uncovered - no. 28: boston, 'more than a feeling' – top 100 classic rock songs - daily rewind: robin gibb, tenacious d + more - eeo public file - terms - vip terms & conditions - faq - privacy - help & contact - townsquare media - country music - music news - classic rock - hard rock - funny videos - deal of the day - guyspeed - alternative - movies tv email password remember me forgot password?
“this… recognizes the significant amounts of potassium, fiber and  vitamins a and c provided by tomato paste, ensuring that students may continue  to enjoy healthy meals such as pizza and pasta,” he said.
on air lutheran hour wall| posts| email call in 307-745-4888 find us on facebook
via feeding tube — is it safe?
the latest from kowb - george clooney and president obama: have dinner with us - this day in history for april 22 – blues brothers debut and more - secretary of state warns of business identity theft - man attacks wife with cheez-it - is this restaurant ad a triumph of bad filmmaking?
supported by the food companies that produce frozen pizzas for schools, the  salt industry and potato growers, republicans on the house appropriations  committee said they’re trying to “prevent overly burdensome and  costly regulations and to provide greater flexibility for local school  districts to improve the nutritional quality of meals.”
limited both sodium and potatoes for school lunch lines — moves some  conservatives in congress are fighting.
follow on facebook follow on twitter  subscribe via rss tip us need more veggies?
earlier this year, the usda proposed new standards that would’ve
- what is the hottest trend in cosmetic surgeries?
“this… recognizes the significant amounts of potassium, fiber and vitamins a and c provided by tomato paste, ensuring that students may continue to enjoy healthy meals such as pizza and pasta,” he said.
more from around the web: - 'goodbye first love' review - celebrate 4/20
kraig naasz, president of the american frozen food institute, disagrees.
search contact us sign
so, when the united  states department of agriculture threatened to take it off public school lunch  menus, they did what many of us would have done in their position — they  officially declared it a vegetable.
we look back at the post-'seinfeld' sitcoms listen live
shauna wright | november 20, 2011 usdagov, flickr members of congress love pizza as much as any of us.
earlier this year, the usda proposed new standards that would’ve limited both sodium and potatoes for school lunch lines — moves some conservatives in congress are fighting.
like controversial k-e diet promises brides extreme weight loss
what is the hottest trend in cosmetic surgeries?
like more from kowb 1290 - controversial k-e diet promises brides extreme weight loss
back in 1981, some people wanted ketchup reclassified from a condiment to a vegetable, which would’ve allowed public schools to cut out a serving of vegetables and still fulfill nutrition requirements for school lunches.
- fifth avenue frogger uses real time traffic in game play - katy perry smooches a sailor - suge knight believes tupac shakur is alive; threatens to beat the crap out of rick ross - selena gomez calls justin bieber kiss cam smooch 'humiliating,' 'awkward' + 'weird' - mumford and son's
although the move was largely derided and never implemented, it looks like  those advocates are finally getting part of their wish, for now.
although the move was largely derided and never implemented, it looks like those advocates are finally getting part of their wish, for now.
“they are making sure that two of the biggest problems in the school lunch program, pizza and french fries, are untouched,” said margo wootan of the center for science in the public interest.