chew your food more thoroughly and avoid eating on the run.
reprinted with permission for personal or non-profit use.
the  american heart association recommends we consume less than 2 grams of trans fat  per day.
(health magazine) healthy dining finder – this comprehensive website provides  nutritional analysis for hundreds of popular restaurants.
a healthier choice is the drumstick, which has 160 calories, 10 grams of fat, and 370 mg of sodium.
includes a  free, downloadable 146-page colored coded guide.
mexican chains fast food chains that specialize in tacos or burritos can be caloric  minefields or they can be a good option for finding healthy fast food.
figuring out healthier options at your favorite fast food burger chain can be tricky.
source: medpage today guides can help you make healthier meal choices many fast food chains post nutritional information on their websites.
dining out and losing weight – with these do’s and  don’ts, there’s no need to fear a meal out.
fast food restaurant food tends to be very high in  sodium, a major contributor to high blood pressure.
watch your fast food sodium intake high salt/sodium intake is a major contributor to cardiovascular disease.
(healthy dining) stop&go fast food nutrition guide – offers practical advice to  help you navigate the nutritional options at 70 popular chains.
cooking for one find meal ideas that make cooking for yourself as  inexpensive as eating at fast food restaurants—but much healthier.
check their website for nutritional information first, though, as it’s not available in the restaurants.
it’s always tempting to add bacon to  sandwiches and salads for extra flavor, but bacon has very few nutrients and is  high in fat and calories.
still, in a bad economy the quick-and-cheap temptation can often be hard to resist.
subs, sandwich and deli choices less healthy choices high-fat meat such as ham, tuna salad, bacon, meatballs, or steak the “normal” amount of higher-fat (cheddar, american) cheese adding mayo and special sauces keeping the sub “as is” with all toppings
high salt/sodium intake is a major contributor to cardiovascular disease.
making healthier choices at fast food restaurants is easier if you prepare ahead by checking guides that show you the nutritional content of meal choices at your favorite restaurants.
although certain chains have been advertising “no trans fats” in their food, the fact is that fried chicken can pack quite a fattening punch.
as an informed customer, though, you can make healthier choices and  still enjoy the price and convenience of fast food restaurants.
the desserts, however, are much less healthy.
less healthy choices healthier choices subway 6" roast beef sub (on whole wheat bread with veggies, no mayo): 290 calories, 5g fat (2g saturated fat) asian cultures tend to eat healthily, with an emphasis on veggies and with meat used as a “condiment” rather than the focus of the meal.
or if you want a large beef burger,  then skip the fries and soda and have a side salad and water instead.
corner bakery and café – offers healthy breakfast choices, plus healthy salads, sandwiches, and soup.
beyond fast food "fast casuals" come of age - provides guidance  on selecting healthy choices when dining at "fast casual"  restaurants, such as au bon pain, panera, and briazz.
“undress” your food.
a study by the new  york city health department surveyed 6,580 meals bought at fast-food restaurant  chains and found that: about 57% of the meals exceeded the 1,500-mg daily sodium level.
cooking for one find meal ideas that make cooking for yourself as inexpensive as eating at fast food restaurants—but much healthier.
unfortunately, these lists are often confusing and hard to use.
generally italian places have lots of veggies in their kitchen so it’s easy to ask to have extra veggies added to your meal.
healthy recipes instead of eating out, try making fast, delicious meals at  home that are easy to prepare and healthy to eat.
according to the restaurant’s nutrition info, just a single extra crispy  chicken breast at kfc has a whopping 440 calories, 27 grams of fat, and 970 mg  of sodium.
rice,  beans, salsa, and a few slices of fresh avocado can make a very healthy meal.
a great tip for all asian restaurants – use the chopsticks!
moderation becomes the key.
jason’s deli – uses organic ingredients and encourages portion control by offering smaller meals at a discounted price.
weight problems and obesity in children there are steps your whole family  can take to help your child reach and maintain a healthy weight.
several chains, like taco bell and baja fresh, have “healthy”  menu options that feature less fat and fresher ingredients.
economical monthly newsletters are an award-winning source of information on  restaurant and supermarket foods.
italian and pizza restaurant choices less healthy choices thick-crust or butter-crust pizza with extra cheese and meat toppings garlic bread pasta with cream or butter-based sauce entrée with side of pasta fried (“frito”) dishes thin-crust pizza with half the cheese and extra veggies plain rolls or breadsticks pasta with tomato sauce and veggies entrée with side of veggies grilled (“griglia”) dishes
this material is for information and support; not a substitute for  professional advice.
eating well on the cheap get tips on how to stretch your food budget while still making healthy choices.
tips for making healthy choices at fast food restaurants make careful menu selections – pay attention to the  descriptions on the menu.
several chains, like taco bell and baja fresh, have “healthy” menu options that feature less fat and fresher ingredients.
simply eat half and take the rest home for another meal.
nutritional information from chains with natural, high-quality fast food panera bread
finding a healthy, well-balanced meal in most fast food restaurants can  be a challenge, but there are always choices you can make that are healthier  than others.
(american diabetes association)
by learning how to avoid common diet  pitfalls, you can achieve lasting weight loss success.
take half home or divide the  portion with a dining partner.
when choosing items, be  aware of calorie- and fat-packed salad dressings, spreads, cheese, sour cream,  etc.
alternatively you may enjoy a veggie burger  smothered in grilled onion and mushrooms.
see resources and references section below for more information on finding  guides to help you make healthier meal choices.
for example, a seemingly healthy salad can be a diet  minefield when smothered in high-fat dressing and fried toppings, so choose a  salad with fresh veggies, grilled toppings, and a lighter dressing.
the big taco chains crunch wraps or gordita-type burritos nachos with refried beans
this material is for information and support; not a substitute for professional advice.
(weight watchers) guides to healthy choices at fast food restaurants america's top 10 healthiest fast food restaurants – a survey of the  100 largest fast-food chains in america, listing the healthiest places to eat,  and healthiest meals to choose.
fast food chains that specialize in tacos or burritos can be caloric minefields or they can be a good option for finding healthy fast food.
dining out and losing weight – with these do’s and don’ts, there’s no need to fear a meal out.
however, some fast food restaurants offer a greater variety of healthy menu choices than others.
(health magazine) healthy dining finder – this comprehensive website provides nutritional analysis for hundreds of popular restaurants.
this site is for information only and not a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.
alphabetical listings  help you find the healthiest choices at your favorite eatery.
weight problems and obesity in children there are steps your whole family can take to help your child reach and maintain a healthy weight.
healthier fast food at fried chicken chains although certain chains have been advertising “no trans fats”  in their food, the fact is that fried chicken can pack quite a fattening punch.
unfortunately, many western versions of these ethnic foods tend to be much higher in fat and calories – so caution is needed.
still, in a bad economy the quick-and-cheap temptation can often be hard to  resist.
visit  www.helpguide.org to see the article with links to related articles.
easy exercise tips exercise is one of the easiest and safest methods to improve both your physical and mental health.
at only one of the 11 chains included in the study, au bon pain, did more  than 7% of meals contain less than 600 mg, the fda’s "healthy"  sodium level for meals.
last updated: december 2011.
nutritional information is posted at each restaurant, so it’s a good idea to check the sodium content before ordering.
rice, beans, salsa, and a few slices of fresh avocado can make a very healthy meal.
if you have a special dietary concern, such as diabetes, heart health or weight loss, the websites of national non-profits provide useful advice.
resist the  temptation to go for seconds, or wait at least 20 minutes after eating to make  sure you're really still hungry before going back for more.
buffets – even seemingly healthy ones like  salad bars.
stay  away from fried, oily, or overly buttery food, as well as thick crust menu  items, and you can keep your diet goals intact.
au bon pain – serves healthy, low calories soups, salads, and sandwiches using whole grains and organic chicken.
eating fast food on a regular basis can lead to a host of different health  problems, both physical and psychological.
watch out for the following terms, which are common sources of high fat and calories: alfredo, carbonara, saltimbocca, parmigiana, lasagna, manicotti, stuffed (all have heavy amounts of cream and cheese).
plenty of healthy choices on the kids’ menu, too, but avoid the sticky buns on display at the counter.
if you are eating out, a fast food restaurant is often the cheapest  option, but unfortunately not a healthy one.
however, some fast food restaurants offer a greater variety of healthy menu  choices than others.
learning to make healthier choices at fast food restaurants making healthier choices at fast food restaurants is easier if you prepare  ahead by checking guides that show you the nutritional content of meal choices  at your favorite restaurants.
free downloadable guides help you evaluate your options.
hamburger:  280 calories, 9g fat (3.5g saturated fat).
healthier fast food at burger chains figuring out healthier options at your favorite fast food burger chain can  be tricky.
tips for what to avoid at fast food restaurants supersized portions.
adding sour cream or cheese healthier choices grilled “fresco” style steak burrito veggie and bean burrito limiting sour cream or cheese for a healthier fast food option at a mexican restaurant try: taco bell taco salad (without the shell, sour cream, or cheese): 330  calories, 13g fat (5g saturated fat) healthy fast food: sub sandwich chains many of us love the many different types of sandwiches available: hot,  cold, wrapped, foot long—often served with a salad instead of fries.
also, it’s very important to remember portion  control in these types of restaurants, as many offer enormous serving sizes.
the anti-carbohydrate revolution has given italian food a bad rap, but italian is actually one of the easiest types of cuisine to make healthy.
the desserts, however, are much  less healthy.
pay attention to what you eat and savor  each bite.
cspi’s economical monthly newsletters are an award-winning source of information on restaurant and supermarket foods.
but adding cheese, sour cream, and tortilla chips can turn even a good meal  into an unhealthy one.
portion control is also important, as many fast food restaurants serve enough food for several meals in the guise of a single serving.
some tips for making smarter choices at fast food chicken restaurants: the big fried chicken chains less healthy choices fried chicken, original or extra-crispy.
in a recent survey of the 100 largest fast food chains in  america,health magazine compiled a list of the healthiest fast  food restaurants.
ask for your vegetables and main dishes  to be served without the sauces.
but you need to use some common sense.
but you need to use  some common sense.
visit www.helpguide.org for more information and related articles.
a typical meal at a burger joint consists of a "sandwich", some fries, and a drink, which can quickly come in at over 1700 calories for something like burger king's triple whopper with a large fries and a 16 oz. soda.
a study by the new york city health department surveyed 6,580 meals bought at fast-food restaurant chains and found that: source: medpage today many fast food chains post nutritional information on their websites.
in this article: when is it ok to eat fast food? make healthier choices chains with healthiest fast food related links text size when is it healthy to eat fast food?
fried chicken outlets including kfc and popeye's were the worst  offenders, with 83% of meals exceeding 1500 mg of sodium and 55% of the meals  surpassing 2,300 mg of sodium.
teriyaki wings or popcorn chicken caesar salad adding extra gravy and sauces healthier choices skinless chicken breast without breading honey bbq chicken sandwich limiting gravy and sauces for a healthier fast food option at a fried chicken restaurant try: kfc original recipe chicken breast (with breading and skin removed) and a  side of green beans: 190 calories, 4.5g fat (1.5g saturated fat).
free downloadable guides help you evaluate your  options.
you’ll eat more slowly, since you can’t grasp as much food with them at one time as you can with your normal fork and knife.
includes a free, downloadable 146-page colored coded guide.
restaurant eating tips – enjoy the foods you love without a calorie overload.
fresh mex study – talks about the best and worst choices at some of  the biggest mexican chains - chipotle, baja fresh, rubios, and la salsa.
alternatively, if you like the breast meat,  take off the skin and it becomes a healthy choice at 140 calories, 2 grams of  fat, and 520 mg of sodium.
jason’s deli – uses organic ingredients and encourages portion  control by offering smaller meals at a discounted price.
you  can also choose to patronize restaurants that focus on natural, high quality  food.
mindful eating relaxes you, so you digest better,  and makes you feel more satisfied.
is that a snack ...or a splurge – nutritional guide to calorie, fat and sodium content of menu choices at 5 chains including chipotle, sbarro and panera.
related helpguide articles and resources for healthy fast food healthy eating healthy weight loss resources and references healthy eating learn easy ways to stick to a healthy diet to boost your  energy, sharpen your memory, and stabilize your mood.
plenty of healthy choices on the  kids’ menu, too, but avoid the sticky buns on display at the counter.
healthy italian fast food the anti-carbohydrate revolution has given italian food a bad rap, but  italian is actually one of the easiest types of cuisine to make healthy.
less healthy choices healthier choices taco bell taco salad (without the shell, sour cream, or cheese): 330 calories, 13g fat (5g saturated fat) many of us love the many different types of sandwiches available: hot, cold, wrapped, foot long—often served with a salad instead of fries.
less healthy choices healthier choices
watch out for the following terms, which are common sources of high fat and  calories: alfredo, carbonara, saltimbocca, parmigiana, lasagna, manicotti,  stuffed (all have heavy amounts of cream and cheese).
home about us testimonials contact us our story www.helpguide.org reprinted with permission for personal or non-profit use.
according to the restaurant’s nutrition info, just a single extra crispy chicken breast at kfc has a whopping 440 calories, 27 grams of fat, and 970 mg of sodium.
less healthy choices healthier choices pizza hut fit 'n delicious chicken & veggie pizza (2 slices): 208 calories, 9g fat (4g saturated fat) whether you choose to eat fast food at a mcdonald’s, a subway, or a local deli, there are always menu choices that are healthier than others.
this may be because people feel so virtuous eating  “healthy” as the ads suggest, they reward themselves with chips,  sodas, or extra condiments that can turn a healthy meal into an unhealthy one.
(american heart association)
there are also many websites geared towards making healthy choices at restaurants depending on your specific dietary needs, whether your concern is diabetes, cancer, heart disease, or weight management.
choosing whole-grain bread or taking the top slice off your sub and  eating it open-faced for a healthier fast food option at a sub sandwich restaurant try: subway 6" roast beef sub (on whole wheat bread with veggies, no  mayo):  290 calories, 5g fat (2g saturated fat) healthy asian food asian cultures tend to eat healthily, with an emphasis on veggies and with  meat used as a “condiment” rather than the focus of the meal.
see resources and references section below for more information on finding guides to help you make healthier meal choices.
if you don’t prepare ahead of time, common sense guidelines help to  make your meal healthier.
beyond fast food "fast casuals" come of age - provides guidance on selecting healthy choices when dining at "fast casual" restaurants, such as au bon pain, panera, and briazz.
stay away from fried, oily, or overly buttery food, as well as thick crust menu items, and you can keep your diet goals intact.
portion  control is also important, as many fast food restaurants serve enough food for  several meals in the guise of a single serving.
some publish downloadable comparison guides, inexpensive pocket guides, or mobile apps for your smart phone.
easy exercise tips exercise is one of the easiest and safest methods to  improve both your physical and mental health.
a typical meal at a burger joint consists of a "sandwich",  some fries, and a drink, which can quickly come in at over 1700 calories for  something like burger king's triple whopper with a large fries and a 16 oz.  soda.
generally italian places  have lots of veggies in their kitchen so it’s easy to ask to have extra  veggies added to your meal.
the top 5 were: panera bread – provides a wide variety of healthy menu options, half-sized portions, and organic chicken.
less healthy choices healthier choices panda express tangy shrimp with a side of mixed veggies: 260 calories, 7.5 g fat (1.5g saturated fat).
italian restaurant food: belly-ismo – discusses the best menu choices  for the most popular italian restaurant chains, as well as tips for healthy  italian food dining in general.
if you don’t prepare ahead of time, common sense guidelines help to make your meal healthier.
being  mindful also means stopping before you are full.
you’ll eat more slowly,  since you can’t grasp as much food with them at one time as you can with  your normal fork and knife.
a single meal of a double whopper with cheese, a medium order of fries,  and an apple pie from burger king contains more saturated fat than the american  heart association recommends we consume intwo days.
your guide to eating out (pdf) – many useful tips to help you eat healthier when dining out.
noodles and company – cooks noodle bowls using healthy soybean oil,  fresh vegetables and organic meat and tofu.
in a recent survey of the 100 largest fast food chains in america,health magazine compiled a list of the healthiest fast food restaurants.
adding low-fat dressing or mustard instead of mayo
a better option would be a regular single patty burger, small fries, and  water, which is about 500 calories.
ask for olive oil and vinegar for your salads  or order the dressing "on the side" and spoon only a small amount on  at a time.
alternatively you may enjoy a veggie burger smothered in grilled onion and mushrooms.
a better option would be a regular single patty burger, small fries, and water, which is about 500 calories.
instead, you  can go to other websites that provide health and nutrition information, but in  easier to follow formats.
this may be because people feel so virtuous eating “healthy” as the ads suggest, they reward themselves with chips, sodas, or extra condiments that can turn a healthy meal into an unhealthy one.
the american heart association recommends that adults stay under 1500 mg of  sodium per day, and never take in more than 2,300 mg a day.
even those eating lower calorie meals were likely to exceed their daily  sodium limit within a single meal.
instead, try ordering extra pickles, onions,  lettuce, tomatoes, or mustard to add flavor without the fat.
(weight watchers) america's top 10 healthiest fast food restaurants – a survey of the 100 largest fast-food chains in america, listing the healthiest places to eat, and healthiest meals to choose.
drink water with your meal.
but adding cheese, sour cream, and tortilla chips can turn even a good meal into an unhealthy one.
typically, fast food is low in nutrition and  high in trans fat, saturated fat, sodium, and calories.
there are also  many websites geared towards making healthy choices at restaurants depending on  your specific dietary needs, whether your concern is diabetes, cancer, heart  disease, or weight management.
at a typical restaurant, a  single serving provides enough for two meals.
helpguide's bring your life into balance mindfulness toolkit can help you take control of your emotions and  control your weight.
a great tip for all  asian restaurants – use the chopsticks!
visit www.helpguide.org to see the article with links to related articles.
many menu items would be healthy if it  weren't for the way they were prepared.
typically, fast food is low in nutrition and high in trans fat, saturated fat, sodium, and calories.
(american cancer society) tips for eating fast food – suggestions and healthy substitutions for  fast food restaurant items.
soda is a huge source of  hidden calories.
the top 5 were: panera bread – provides a wide variety of healthy menu options,  half-sized portions, and organic chicken.
unfortunately, many western versions of these ethnic foods tend to be much  higher in fat and calories – so caution is needed.
while their ads promote the health benefits of sandwich shops, studies have  found that many people eat more calories per meal at a sub shop than at  mcdonalds.
if your food is fried or cooked in oil or butter, ask to have it  broiled or steamed.
for a healthier fast food option at a chinese restaurant try: panda express tangy shrimp with a side of mixed veggies: 260 calories, 7.5  g fat (1.5g saturated fat).
fast food is cheap, convenient, filling, and to many of us it tastes good.
you can also choose to patronize restaurants that focus on natural, high quality food.
italian restaurant food: belly-ismo – discusses the best menu choices for the most popular italian restaurant chains, as well as tips for healthy italian food dining in general.
restaurant eating tips – enjoy the foods you love without a calorie  overload.
healthy weight loss and dieting tips
one 32-oz big gulp of regular cola packs about 425 calories,  which can quickly gulp up a big portion of your daily calorie intake.
choosing healthy fats a guide to replacing bad fats with good fats that  promote health and emotional well-being.
some examples: moderation becomes the key.
some publish downloadable comparison guides,  inexpensive pocket guides, or mobile apps for your smart phone.
an average fast food meal can run to  1000 calories or more, so choose a smaller portion size, order a side salad  instead of fries, and don't supersize anything.
don’t add insult to  injury by adding more salt.
healthy fast food tips for making healthier fast food choices share rss fast food is cheap, convenient, filling, and to many of us it tastes good.
if you do  choose buffet dining, opt for fresh fruits, salads with olive oil & vinegar  or low-fat dressings, broiled entrees, and steamed vegetables.
authors: maya w. paul and lawrence robinson.
whether you choose to eat fast food at a mcdonald’s, a subway, or a  local deli, there are always menu choices that are healthier than others.
it’s ok to indulge a craving for french fries every now and then, but to stay healthy you can’t make it a regular habit.
(steven aldana, phd) these detailed illustrated reports (all pdf) are available to non-subscribers (center for science in the public interest).
it’s ok to indulge a craving for french  fries every now and then, but to stay healthy you can’t make it a regular  habit.
asian food choices fried egg rolls, spare ribs, tempura battered or deep-fried dishes (sweet and sour pork, general tso’s  chicken) deep-fried tofu coconut milk, sweet and sour sauce, regular soy sauce fried rice salads with fried or crispy noodles healthier choices egg drop, miso, wonton, or hot & sour soup stir-fried, steamed, roasted or broiled entrees (shrimp chow mein, chop  suey) steamed or baked tofu sauces such as ponzu, rice-wine vinegar, wasabi, ginger, and low-sodium  soy sauce steamed brown rice edamame, cucumber salad, stir-fried veggies
the big burger chains double-patty hamburger with cheese, mayo, special sauce, and bacon fried chicken sandwich salad with toppings such as bacon, cheese, and ranch dressing breakfast burrito with steak adding cheese, extra mayo, and special sauces healthier choices regular, single-patty hamburger without mayo or cheese grilled chicken sandwich garden salad with grilled chicken and low-fat dressing egg on a muffin baked potato or a side salad yogurt parfait limiting cheese, mayo, and special sauces
this reprint is for information only and not a substitute for professional diagnosis and treatment.
beware of the sodium  content of their sandwiches, though.
au bon pain – serves healthy, low calories soups, salads, and  sandwiches using whole grains and organic chicken.
need more help to lose weight?
fresh mex study – talks about the best and worst choices at some of the biggest mexican chains - chipotle, baja fresh, rubios, and la salsa.
as an informed customer, though, you can make healthier choices and still enjoy the price and convenience of fast food restaurants.
so in one side order, you’ve just eaten more than five  days’ worth of heart-busting trans fat!
dishes labeled deep-fried, pan-fried, basted,  batter-dipped, breaded, creamy, crispy, scalloped, alfredo, au gratin, or in  cream sauce are usually high in calories, unhealthy fats, or sodium.
links to a wide range  of articles.
or if you want a large beef burger, then skip the fries and soda and have a side salad and water instead.
chinese restaurant food – wok carefully – analysis of the nutritional value of take out chinese food and includes three suggestions for making your restaurant chinese dinner more healthy.
corner bakery and café – offers healthy breakfast choices,  plus healthy salads, sandwiches, and soup.
some tips for making smarter choices at fast food chicken restaurants: less healthy choices healthier choices kfc original recipe chicken breast (with breading and skin removed) and a side of green beans: 190 calories, 4.5g fat (1.5g saturated fat).
healthy recipes instead of eating out, try making fast, delicious meals at home that are easy to prepare and healthy to eat.
it takes time for your body to  register that you have eaten.
eating just one fast food  meal can pack enough calories, sodium, and fat for an entire day or more.
try  adding a little lemon to your water or ordering unsweetened iced tea.
(american cancer society) tips for eating fast food – suggestions and healthy substitutions for fast food restaurant items.
eating just one fast food meal can pack enough calories, sodium, and fat for an entire day or more.
the american heart association recommends that adults stay under 1500 mg of sodium per day, and never take in more than 2,300 mg a day.
eating well on the cheap get tips on how to stretch your food budget while  still making healthy choices.
order  items with more vegetables and choose leaner meats.
nutrition for children and teens simple steps to help your children develop  better eating habits and learn to enjoy healthy foods.
nutritional information is  posted at each restaurant, so it’s a good idea to check the sodium  content before ordering.
for example, ask for a grilled chicken sandwich without the mayonnaise.
a healthier choice is the drumstick, which has 160 calories, 10  grams of fat, and 370 mg of sodium.
adding extra veggie toppings
chinese restaurant food – wok carefully – analysis of the  nutritional value of take out chinese food and includes three suggestions for  making your restaurant chinese dinner more healthy.
back to top print ©helpguide.org.
for a healthier fast food option at a pizza restaurant try: pizza hut fit 'n delicious chicken & veggie pizza (2 slices):   208 calories, 9g fat (4g saturated fat) chains with natural, high-quality fast food
also, it’s very important to remember portion control in these types of restaurants, as many offer enormous serving sizes.
while their ads promote the health benefits of sandwich shops, studies have found that many people eat more calories per meal at a sub shop than at mcdonalds.
text size the short answer is: rarely.
you'll likely overeat to get your money's worth.
you can ask for a packet of ketchup or mustard and add it yourself, controlling  how much you put on your sandwich.
you can make healthier choices at a deli or sub shop
(steven aldana, phd) healthy fast food articles in nutrition action healthletter these detailed illustrated reports (all pdf) are available to  non-subscribers (center for science in the public interest).
for a healthier fast food option at a burger restaurant try: mcdonald's hamburger: 260 calories, 9g fat (3.5g saturated fat).
some examples: one sack of “hash bites” or “potato snackers” from  white castle, for example, contains 10 grams of very unhealthy trans fat.
eating fast food on a regular basis can lead to a host of different health problems, both physical and psychological.
but even there, 46% of meals had 1,500 mg or more of  sodium.
links to a wide range of articles.
is that a snack ...or a splurge – nutritional guide to calorie, fat  and sodium content of menu choices at 5 chains including chipotle, sbarro and  panera.
finding a healthy, well-balanced meal in most fast food restaurants can be a challenge, but there are always choices you can make that are healthier than others.
alternatively, if you like the breast meat, take off the skin and it becomes a healthy choice at 140 calories, 2 grams of fat, and 520 mg of sodium.
choosing white bread or “wraps” which are often higher in fat  than normal bread healthier choices lean meat (roast beef, chicken breast, lean ham) or veggies one or two slices of lower-fat cheese (swiss or mozzarella)
choosing healthy fats a guide to replacing bad fats with good fats that promote health and emotional well-being.
(healthy dining) stop&go fast food nutrition guide – offers practical advice to help you navigate the nutritional options at 70 popular chains.
special dietary needs at fast food restaurants your guide to eating out (pdf) – many useful tips to help you eat  healthier when dining out.
instead, you can go to other websites that provide health and nutrition information, but in easier to follow formats.
nutrition for children and teens simple steps to help your children develop better eating habits and learn to enjoy healthy foods.
helpguide's bring your life into balance mindfulness toolkit can help you take control of your emotions and control your weight.
healthy eating learn easy ways to stick to a healthy diet to boost your energy, sharpen your memory, and stabilize your mood.
beware of the sodium content of their sandwiches, though.
for example, a seemingly healthy salad can be a diet minefield when smothered in high-fat dressing and fried toppings, so choose a salad with fresh veggies, grilled toppings, and a lighter dressing.
the short answer is: rarely.
noodles and company – cooks noodle bowls using healthy soybean oil, fresh vegetables and organic meat and tofu.
by learning how to avoid common diet pitfalls, you can achieve lasting weight loss success.
check their website for nutritional  information first, though, as it’s not available in the restaurants.
if you are eating out, a fast food restaurant is often the cheapest option, but unfortunately not a healthy one.
if you have a special dietary concern, such as diabetes, heart health  or weight loss, the websites of national non-profits provide useful advice.
alphabetical listings help you find the healthiest choices at your favorite eatery.