a helpful note: check out latin american markets in your area or at least a well-stocked market like jon’s marketplace, if you are lucky enough to live by one, or another family owned market.
last time i was there they had at least 15  different kinds there.
mario bitali and others resounded the fact that most of our grain goes to feeding cows who should really be eating grass, as that is what they were designed to eat.
if you have ideas that you think would be great to integrate within the site, let me know!
garnish with any of these things: cheddar or mozzarella or monterey jack cheese for tops of turkos lettuce salsa of your choice-market pantry makes an outstanding chunky salsa.
******* nobody ever said good food and good cooking had to be hard to be good, did they?
add your choice of vegetables from onion, peppers, cooked potatoes and then add other seasonings to your liking of garlic, cumin, and even a cup of mild salsa would be awesome in this!
he does what i hope to do, make good cooking accessible to everybody, no matter who you are or how old you are.
i want to tell the big major grocery stores that do that, that those cards cost money and with all that you guys spend on them you could have offered low prices without the card!
you can also fill them with cooked seasoned chicken or fish, if you can find a  good price on it.)
views: 21 tags: jack, monterey, budget, cheddar, cheese, delicious, friendly, ground, healthier, lettuce, more…salsa, seasoning, shells, taco, turkeylike share twitter facebook comment join cooking up a storm all over the world!
sometimes, sharing the wisdom you have learned in a business is better than sharing what worked.
**********************
turkey-turkey tacos delicious, healthier budget friendly alternative to beef tacos created by paulette le pore motzko copyright january 2012 1-1/4 pounds ground turkey-i used jennie-o (target carries it regularly for a mere $3.47!)
you can find me on facebook by my full name of paulette le pore motzko and you can find me on twitter at: polly motzko.
if i don't approve your recipe right away, i will write to you and tell you why.
cookingupastorminca.ning.comrecipes compiled and text written by…continue tags: easy, delicious, healthy, ahead, make started by linda rowan in what are you cooking in your kitchen in your corner of the world?.
likes 11/23/2011 8:50 am-10:11 amplan ahead then relax thanksgiving dinner for any time of the year:
you can also make these as they do in mexico, with wrap the meat mixture in a corn tortilla that you can either warm or serve as is-for a soft taco.
if you are interested in an affiliate program, or having me help you advertise your food product or appliance, contact me at the above number or at carestaurantshowcase@gmail.com.
********************** here are some homemade colored sugar cubes i made in assorted colors in the wee hours of the morn, when i was moving all my baking pans from my cupboard to my baker's rack....
turkos-healthier, delicious and more budget friendly than beef tacos posted by paulette le pore motzko on january 22, 2012 at 10:30pm view blog delicious, healthier budget friendly alternative to beef tacos created by paulette le pore motzko copyright january 2012 1-1/4 pounds ground turkey-i used jennie-o (target carries it  regularly for a mere $3.47!)
herb alpert & the tijuana brass christmas album5.
continue tags: sharing, favorite, music, christmas started by paulette le pore motzko in what are you cooking in your kitchen in your corner of the world?
i remember my ex-husband eating the thing and saying it was "good", and then i saw a smirk come on his face
some cookies i made for my mom just to remind her that i love her...no reason.
many of them to add because i love this season so much!what are some of your personal christmas favorites?
other great brands, if you don’t make your own: pace, or any of the  many of trader joe’s salsas.
replies 1 like what do you like to cook and why?
if you are a company and would like to sponsor this site and believe in what i am doing, contact paulette motzko at: carestaurantshowcase@gmail.com you can call or text me at: 714-398-4340 or 714-383-0476 make sure and put your first and last name in the message, what company you work for and what you are interested in having me create: web site, web content, feature story or pictorial.
sometimes it is just one of those days and the day needs a jump start to surprise your loved ones-be it family or friends.
for me, i try to avoid the word "strange" when people describe the things i cook, but i would say there was a meat loaf i made once that never did firm up!
wait until you see some of these.
share the dishes you love to cook the most and the recipes that go with them.
replies 1 like have you ever made something that you had high hopes for but it just didn't come out as you expected?you can share your stories here and also, if you learned something about how you would make it better next time, then it wasn't a flub up at all, was it!
most everybody knows how to make a taco i think, especially those who live in southern ca, where we have a mix of all ethnic races and tacos are becoming almost more popular than a burger...
if you thought enough to print this thanksgiving or any day menu and recipes, then by all means tell your friends and yourself-your own best friend, about my online cooking magazine, cooking up a storm all over the world!
if you treated people in that way all year long, we would have a pretty darn good world!
continue tags: motzko, ca, usa, world, polly started by paulette le pore motzko in what are you cooking in your kitchen in your corner of the world?
how do you keep one loaf fresh as i have heard a variety of answers to this proverbial question.
i was talking to my good friend kim and she was going to go in the kitchen and bake something.
are you having a party?
badges | report an issue | terms of service above shot are "melt-in-your-mouth banana muffins" christmas and life in general is about giving and not receiving, it is about kindness over anger, love over hate.
i forgot i had them, and had found the recipe for them in the december 2011 food network magazine-
dance of the sugarplum fairy2.
vary this recipe and let it be a “springboard for your imagination©”
also, if there is a special story behind the dish, share it too!
polly motzkosunday, september 25th, 201111:40 a.m.
(so i don't get cards and letters on this one: i know in mexico traditionally tacos have shredded seasoned pork butt or carne asada in them.
it was meatless monday and chef mario bitali and chef michael symon were talking about their philosophies on integrating more vegetables in their diet.
maybe you can think of a way to make that recipe easier to prepare.....
last month next month march 6, 2012 to march 7, 2012 – palm desert, ca0 comments 1 like golosi triangoli con crema di nocciole menù secondi di verdure patate gratinate
the grain then makes them sick by making them gassy.
…continue tags: recipes, stories, made, kitchen-disasters, ever started by paulette le pore motzko in what are you cooking in your kitchen in your corner of the world?
started by paulette le pore motzko in what are you cooking in your kitchen in your corner of the world?.
i usually make at least two loaves and give one away to my parents who live next door to me, and if i feel ambitious and want to see a big smile on my friend myle's i will bake up three loaves.
this one is very different from any other kind of thanksgiving menu you have ever seen?
and i just told him not to eat it as it reminded me of eating alpo-(not that i have eaten alpo or anything!)
***** now when you join the site, you can choose from answering the cooking related questions that i created or just signing up without answering anything.
so, put on your thinking caps and then grab an apron and think of what you would like to see on here and if you would like to do it.
i guarantee you will get lower prices, better quality and no gimmicks like silly cards that you punch to get a low price!
just because you find yourelf disabled or weaker due to aging doesn't mean that you have to resort to take-out or frozen dinners.
most everybody knows how to make a taco i think, especially those who live  in southern ca, where we have a mix of all ethnic races and tacos are becoming  almost more popular than a burger...
if you are a big fan of food wishes with chef john as i am, you can see all of his great, funny, informative and insightful cooking videos at his youtube page here: http://www.youtube.com/user/foodwishes?feature=watch just thought i would share.
nat king cole's the christmas song6.
so why not have some fun!
this one should be funny as the answers start coming in.
what a cool magazine it is too!
2 to 3 cups of hominy that has been drained from the can-teasdale make a great one.
roma tomatoes coarsely chopped
likes i am not a wizard or anything, but one thing i do is listen to my readers and followers.
i will post tips and tricks along with some recipes that i have used for years..and hopefuly many of you will contribute to this group.
she and i both had a kind of "funked out day" where things…continue tags: surprises, recipes, cheer, bake started by paulette le pore motzko in do you earn money in the food business?
because of this, when you consider the price of the grain we are…continue tags: america, farmers, hunger, waste, grass started by paulette le pore motzko in what are you cooking in your kitchen in your corner of the world?
other great brands, if you don’t make your own: pace, or any of the many of trader joe’s salsas.
i would love to see and the almost 160 members would love it too!
continue tags: cookingupastorminca.ning.com, polly, motzko, how-to, fresh started by paulette le pore motzko in what are you cooking in your kitchen in your corner of the world?.
meet others who are also in the "food biz" and share what has been working, or not working.
you can make taco salads or tostada salads with the leftover meat, or if you have a family of 4, this will do just fine.
last reply by paulette le pore motzko jan 27.
help others avoid the pitfalls and mentor others.
4 cups water ½ teaspoon of better than store bought chicken base this couldn’t be easier and it is a great thing to make when you are at home doing laundry or doing office work at your desk as i do.
last reply by linda rowan oct 24, 2011.
polly motzko have a delicious day or night…better yet just have a great day!
paulette le pore motzko you can also text your interest in being a sponsor on this site at: 714-398-4340 and putting affiliate in the subject heading and your name and contact info in the message line.
like some of my personal fav's are:1.
to save money: buy what is in season and it is usually the best price too!
(so i don't get cards and letters on this one: i know in mexico  traditionally tacos have shredded seasoned pork butt or carne asada in them.
after all, all the photos i have ever seen of cows in the rural areas of america's heartland are cows grazing on grass-what they were made to do, not grazing in a pile of grain-that took farmer's time and money to grow.
this site has more than just recipes but also decorating tips, inspirational stories, travel tips, and just plain "news you can use".
in a large pot add one whole cabbage and cover with chicken broth.
i already know that wrapping it in a cotton towel does not work and when i wrapped it in aluminum foil, it tended to mold even after a day here!we put so much tender loving care into the making of our home made breads that it is nice to share what keeps it freshest the longest.paulette le pore motzkojanuary 27th, 20123:30 p.m.
i can create web sites, web content and also networking sites like twitter and facebook for you or your company too.
once nearly browned add 2/3 cup water and one package of market pantry low sodium taco seasoning.
anybody have any funny stories of kitchen disasters or less than perfect dishes?
i would rate it one of the all time best food shows on tv now.
once nearly browned add  2/3 cup water and one package of market pantry low sodium taco seasoning.
i hope it will encourage more people to join the site who didn't like sharing their info with people.
call me at 714-398-4340 or email me today and talk to me how i can help increase the exposure of your food business!
tell em and let's laugh and make a few friends too!
substitute ground turkey for beef where possible and you will be eating  healthier, saving a few bucks, and if you season the turkey, you won't even  know-and your family won't know you made made a healthier substitution!
and then sliced in quarters 2 teaspoons of savory spice shop mexican adobo seasoning 2
the title of the group came from a blog post that i wrote about my disability: post polio syndrome.
substitute ground turkey for beef where possible and you will be eating healthier, saving a few bucks, and if you season the turkey, you won't even know-and your family won't know you made made a healthier substitution!
last time i was there they had at least 15 different kinds there.
polly motzkothe ca restaurant show case.comcontinue started by paulette le pore motzko in what are you cooking in your kitchen in your corner of the world?
like share what you are doing in the food world and how many years you have been doing it.
you can also fill them with cooked seasoned chicken or fish, if you can find a good price on it.)
you can make taco salads or tostada salads with the  leftover meat, or if you have a family of 4, this will do just fine.
continue started by paulette le pore motzko in what are you cooking in your kitchen in your corner of the world?
sometimes the most simple things in life are really the best.
market pantry low sodium taco seasoning taco shells-ortega or el paso make really great ones brown the turkey in a large non-stick skillet.
chef john always makes me smile, laugh, because he laughs at himself.
this  is an outstanding seasoning and i use it on chicken breast or chicken thighs to  make chicken tacos.
views: 21 tags: jack, monterey, budget, cheddar, cheese, delicious, friendly, ground, healthier, lettuce, more…salsa, seasoning, shells, taco, turkey like
there are a lot of people out there who love to cook but have had to learn to do things differently to simplify their lives so that they can still do what they love: cook!
if you would like to sponsor cooking up a storm all over the world!(c) for $100 or more dollars monthly, paulette motzko will add your widget or banner to this site that is seen all over the world & i will advertise your food-related events in the events section.
there was another time that i was trying to make something blackened and it turned out more like "burned"....
visit cooking up a storm all over the world!
this site is becoming more interesting and more "flavorful" with each person who contributes something to the pot!
like i just watched the chew for the first time on abc7 and it was outstanding!
they are better for you, that's for sure!
glenn miller christmasso
this is an outstanding seasoning and i use it on chicken breast or chicken thighs to make chicken tacos.
what are you doing for new year's eve?
you can also make these as they do in mexico, with wrap the meat mixture in  a corn tortilla that you can either warm or serve as is-for a soft taco.
one 3 pound chicken roasted with extra virgin olive oil or canola oil brushed on the skin with a silicone basting brush.
think: quick, simple, ingredients that you can easily find in your pantry, but most of all: delicious!
polly motzkojune 17th, 2011continue tags: cookingupastorminca.ning.com, ideas edit1 © 2012 created by paulette le pore motzko.
then sprinkle with team sweet mama’s bbq seasoning from savory spice shop.
like i love making home made bread and i can never seem to keep it fresh, unless i simply slice the entire loaf and freeze it!
in my case i have more friends who are like family any more than family.
last reply by paulette le pore motzko jan 23.
because with a little preparing, counting the hours back 6-8 hours before your guests arrive, assembling the ingredients for your side dishes in two crock pots, putting your turkey, some vegetables in the turkey cavity in a oven roasting bag in a large, sturdy roasting pan…you are off and hands free-almost, aside from setting the table, getting your centerpieces ready, serving utensils, place mats and putting together whatever dessert you like.
why don't you share your amazing menu ideas here....
rss welcome to cooking up a storm all over the world!
thank you for your interest and for reading to the end of this sentence!
polly motzko december 22, 2011 ************ pozole with roasted chicken, red potatoes, green beans & roasted red pepper created by paulette motzko copyright november 2011 four 32 oz. boxes kendale farm chicken broth with no msg fresh green beans, frozen green beans or canned-2 cups or more up to 2 tablespoons minced garlic 1 cabbage-halved
carestaurantshowcase@gmail.com get badge
mucho better for you!
george winston's "december" cd-beautiful and magical piano music4.
likes i just created (with paulette's urging) a new group called "wheelchair in the kitchen".
i can't promise miracles, but as debbie from south texas knows, i listen, i ask and i work with people who are talented.
sunday, november 20, 2011 please check your browser settings or contact your system administrator.
put all ingredients in a large stock pot-very large one-or caldero, that you can find in many latin american markets for hardly a small dent in your pocket book.
i love the very informal way he does each video.
we spoke about the possibility of a cake decorating group and then the next thing it was reality. :-)