the “big belly” cookies are gone.
“i miss the big cookies,” the grade 12 student said in the  school cafeteria at mississauga’s applewood heights secondary.
as for school fundraisers, students had to think of ways to raise money  without bake sales — when raising money for japan after the tsunami, for  example, they sold paper cranes instead of baked goods.
“the only healthy food we could get before was at valu-mart,”  the grocery store down the street, said nilani ananthamoorthy, 17.
since schools are allowed only 10 days each year to bend the food rules, many groups were vying for an exemption to hold fundraisers such as bake sales or barbecues where they’d offer higher-fat fare, she added.
among teens’ favourites are baked fries, pasta and white-meat chicken  burgers.
while students may have been longing for some of the treats once available  in the caf, they gave the thumbs-up to the new, healthy offerings now mandated  by the province.
back to school…or not...
comments on this story (0) kristin rushowyeducation reporter
deb matthews backs down on...
at applewood heights, a test school for the peel district school board, healthier foods have been on the new menu for about a year.
the chocolate-chip treats, one about the size of 17-year-old jackie chan’s two hands, have been replaced with smaller, applesauce-sweetened cookies the size of her palm.
one grade 11 student, sitting outside and sharing a big, $5 plate of sesame  chicken from the chinese fast-food place with a friend, said she misses the  school’s vending machines.
but the changes are positive, she added, because “kids start to  realize what is a treat, and what they can eat every day.”
“it’s good for you, and it makes it easy that it’s available right in the school.
most read cuts to ohip services  could... gay-straight alliances...
while students may have been longing for some of the treats once available in the caf, they gave the thumbs-up to the new, healthy offerings now mandated by the province.
what’s new — and what to...
but the changes are positive, she added, because “kids start to realize what is a treat, and what they can eat every day.”
“now there are mini ones — i’ll have to have four,”  she joked.
love the fries, miss the big cookies september 6, 2011 comments on this story (0) kristin rushowy education reporter more on back to school how video in the... zara cruickshank’s grade 8 science class is a little different from  those of yesteryear.
“but sometimes the portions are small for the cost.”
what’s long gone: chocolate bars pop with sugar, caffeine energy/sports drinks anything deep fried canned soup (now homemade) big cookies editor's picksdon’t blame modern life — kids have never gotten enough sleep, new study finds newest flyers newest coupons newest deals more information »
students regularly make mini films or podcasts for class projects, reams of notes are a thing of the...
students in the lurch as... cafeterias hurting as... on parentcentral.ca you can check out eqao test results for your child's  school click now to search the “big belly” cookies are gone.
since schools are allowed only 10 days each year to bend the food rules,  many groups were vying for an exemption to hold fundraisers such as bake sales  or barbecues where they’d offer higher-fat fare, she added.
the chocolate-chip treats, one about the size of 17-year-old jackie  chan’s two hands, have been replaced with smaller, applesauce-sweetened  cookies the size of her palm.
what’s new — and  what to...
one grade 11 student, sitting outside and sharing a big, $5 plate of sesame chicken from the chinese fast-food place with a friend, said she misses the school’s vending machines.
teacher angela currie said cafeteria staff listened to student input when it came to changing the menu.
the new rules force all food sold in a school — including fundraising  bake sales — to have high levels of essential nutrients and to be low in  fat, sugar and sodium.
she also likes the new pizza, with a non-oily, thinner crust and lots of  veggies.
foods with little nutritional value — fried foods,  candy and energy drinks — are banned.
branden tang said that last year the chicken burger and fries were both dry.
at applewood heights, a test school for the peel district school board,  healthier foods have been on the new menu for about a year.
teachers see challenges...
she also likes the new pizza, with a non-oily, thinner crust and lots of veggies.
you don’t have to walk to timmies when  it’s cold outside.”
“the fries tasted really good — a big improvement,” added  grade 12 student daniel lee, who also raved about the chicken burger.
“the fries tasted really good — a big improvement,” added grade 12 student daniel lee, who also raved about the chicken burger.
as for school fundraisers, students had to think of ways to raise money without bake sales — when raising money for japan after the tsunami, for example, they sold paper cranes instead of baked goods.
you don’t have to walk to timmies when it’s cold outside.”
“i miss the big cookies,” the grade 12 student said in the school cafeteria at mississauga’s applewood heights secondary.
“now there are mini ones — i’ll have to have four,” she joked.
foods with little nutritional value — fried foods, candy and energy drinks — are banned.
on tuesday, the caf did brisk business, although there were also  lineups at the tim hortons and the chinese takeout place about half a kilometre  away.
out with the old, in with the new • some of the food available at mississauga’s  applewood heights secondary school: milk/chocolate milk/strawberry milk pasta with tomato/tomato and meat sauce baked fries
browse all deals » visit flyerland.ca
“we don’t even have little treats — i wish we could get  even a small treat at lunch — even if they were just little halloween  chocolate bars.”
“pulled” chicken sandwiches sugar-free, caffeine-free pop •
“you know it’s nutritious because it’s gone through the  different tests, and because of the serving sizes,” said chan, who  ordered the $5 pasta combo with a side salad and chocolate milk.
“it’s good for you, and it makes it easy that it’s  available right in the school.
students regularly make mini films or podcasts for class  projects, reams of notes are a thing of the...
“you know it’s nutritious because it’s gone through the different tests, and because of the serving sizes,” said chan, who ordered the $5 pasta combo with a side salad and chocolate milk.
the new rules force all food sold in a school — including fundraising bake sales — to have high levels of essential nutrients and to be low in fat, sugar and sodium.
schools face tricky calls...
more on back to school how video in the...more on back to school how video in the... zara cruickshank’s grade 8 science class is a little different from those of yesteryear.
teacher angela currie said cafeteria staff listened to student input when  it came to changing the menu.
he ate the same meal on tuesday and said it tasted great.
on tuesday, the caf did brisk business, although there were also lineups at the tim hortons and the chinese takeout place about half a kilometre away.
“i would stay here for lunch now,” said the 17-year-old.
out with the old, in with the new • some of the food available at mississauga’s applewood heights secondary school: milk/chocolate milk/strawberry milk juice/smoothies pasta with tomato/tomato and meat sauce baked fries chicken burger
branden tang said that last year the chicken burger and fries were both  dry.
just one is left, and it sells water and juice.
on parentcentral.ca you can check out eqao test results for your child's schoolclick now to search
among teens’ favourites are baked fries, pasta and white-meat chicken burgers.
“we don’t even have little treats — i wish we could get even a small treat at lunch — even if they were just little halloween chocolate bars.”
“the only healthy food we could get before was at valu-mart,” the grocery store down the street, said nilani ananthamoorthy, 17.