and nowhere is that more evident than at willow street.
we wanted to  serve a varied menu.
and that’s what  it’s all about.
kids eat free, parents eat well and our kids menu doesn’t begin and end with the words, “hot dog and fries.”
kids  eat free, parents eat well and our kids menu doesn’t begin and end with  the words, “hot dog and fries.”
we didn’t want to  open in malls.
we like the feeling of being,  “that great little place around the corner.”
which is why we do our best to give back to the cities and towns in which we work and many of our employees live.
in willow glen, we are beginning our third decade of serving the  community.
we never wanted to be corporate.
westgate shopping center | willow street pizza menu posts tagged ‘westgate shopping center’ 01 mar 2012 when is enough… enough?
in los gatos, we’re  continuing to help bring the downtown to life.
we have a new look, a new feel, and a new garage!
a place that folks could count on for a comfortable evening out without breaking the bank.
we didn’t want to open in malls.
of course wood fired pizza (it wouldn’t be willow  street without our signature dish) but also burgers, fresh salads and specials  that were, well, special.
while our attention to quality and dedication to service makes us good restaurants, our supporting of and giving back to communities in which we work makes us good neighbors.
in willow glen, we are beginning our third decade of serving the community.
and if you’ve ever eaten at a willow street with your new baby or your grandmother, you know that we’ve reached our goal.
at willow street, we like being part of a neighborhood and part  of a community.
now there’s one of those great questions to ponder at 4 am while you lie awake waiting for the alarm to go off.
so we committed to providing our guests with  as good a meal and as good an experience as they could have anywhere.
oh, so your resolution is to take the kids out once  a week for a fun, tasty, affordable meal?
oh, so your resolution is to take the kids out once a week for a fun, tasty, affordable meal?
yet none of it would have happened without you.
but, that wasn’t  enough.
speaking of new things in town…main street burgers has added a new dining room and has been voted “best burger” (again) by the los gatos weekly.
on behalf of us at willow street, we wish you a happy and prosperous new year.
as we prepare to say goodbye to 2011 we wanted to take a moment to reflect on where we’ve been and where we’re going.
but, and you guessed  it, even that wasn’t enough.
for us at willow street, looking back requires a long look.
and that’s what it’s all about.
but that wasn’t enough.
from sunny days on the patio to warm nights filled with jazz, willow street remains the talk of the town.
of course wood fired pizza (it wouldn’t be willow street without our signature dish) but also burgers, fresh salads and specials that were, well, special.
then, have a couple of rich, decadent desserts…hey, there are some resolutions that you’re on your own.
it’s just one more thing to beat youself up about.
the town has certainly changed since we opened twenty years ago.
speaking of new things in town…main street burgers has added a new  dining room and has been voted “best burger” (again) by the los  gatos weekly.
go to willow street and order a gluten free pizza or pasta or any number of other great tasting healthy entries.
a place that folks could count on  for a comfortable evening out without breaking the bank.
have cocktail,  share a bruschetta, order one of your old favorites or try one of our ever  changing specials.
we wanted to appeal to families.
who would have thought?
so we committed to providing our guests with as good a meal and as good an experience as they could have anywhere.
but, and you guessed it, even that wasn’t enough.
twenty years ago, when we started  willow street, we had some pretty basic criteria when it came to opening a  restaurant.
on behalf our all of us at willow street and main street,  we wish you a prosperous and happy new year.
we have a new look, a new  feel, and a new garage!
it's easy to join our eclub, justclick here
uncategorized 2 comments now there’s one of those great questions to ponder at 4 am while you  lie awake waiting for the alarm to go off.
so that does it, problem solved, resolution kept.
actually, willow street is really good  at helping keep resolutions.
while our attention to quality and dedication  to service makes us good restaurants, our supporting of and giving back to  communities in which we work makes us good neighbors.
wouldn’t it be nice to have a little help this year?
we like the feeling of being, “that great little place around the corner.”
have cocktail, share a bruschetta, order one of your old favorites or try one of our ever changing specials.
for us at willow street, looking back requires a long  look.
wouldn’t it be nice to have  a little help this year?
it was a very good year
although that does explain all  those colored lights and fat men in red.
you’ve promise yourself that in 2012 date nights will not only be weekly but enjoyable?
actually, willow street is really good at helping keep resolutions.
for instance, let’s say that you’ve  resolved to eat healthier.
on behalf of us at willow street, we wish you a happy and prosperous new year.15 dec 2011 december already!
31 dec 2011 new year’s promises uncategorized comments off …at the risk of sounding a bit like the late andy rooney, you ever  wonder why people make new year’s resolutions?
and  nowhere is that more evident than at willow street.
your friendship and loyalty is appreciated more than you can ever imagine.
that’s right, good things come to those who wait.
at willow street, we like being part of a neighborhood and part of a community.
uncategorized comments off december already!
go to willow street on tuesdays.
go to willow street and order a gluten free pizza or  pasta or any number of other great tasting healthy entries.
it’s  just one more thing to beat youself up about.
for most of us, they barely last until mid january let alone march.
so that does it, problem solved,  resolution kept.
your friendship and loyalty is appreciated  more than you can ever imagine.
for instance, let’s say that you’ve resolved to eat healthier.
as we prepare to say goodbye to 2011  we wanted to take a moment to reflect on where we’ve been and where  we’re going.
which is why we do our best to give back to the cities and  towns in which we work and many of our employees live.
willow street wood fired pizza…enough said?
and if you’ve  ever eaten at a willow street with your new baby or your grandmother, you know  that we’ve reached our goal.
on behalf our all of us at willow street and main street, we wish you a prosperous and happy new year.
you’ve promise yourself that in 2012 date nights  will not only be weekly but enjoyable?
then, have a couple of rich, decadent  desserts…hey, there are some resolutions that you’re on your own.
for most of us, they  barely last until mid january let alone march.
at westgate, we’ve become the place to catch a game in a comfortable room  with terrific food.
follow willow street on facebook willow street wood-fired pizza on  facebook join eclub for special offers our fans receive special discounts and  promotions..
you know, it’s a fact that the better you eat, the better the niners play…so far so good.
yet none of  it would have happened without you.
twenty years ago, when we started willow street, we had some pretty basic criteria when it came to opening a restaurant.
so as we say, “it was a very good year.”
but, that wasn’t enough.
willow street wood fired pizza…enough said?31 dec 2011 …at the risk of sounding a bit like the late andy rooney, you ever wonder why people make new year’s resolutions?
we wanted to serve a varied menu.
at westgate, we’ve become the place to catch a game in a comfortable room with terrific food.
you know, it’s a fact that the better you eat, the  better the niners play…so far so good.
although that does explain all those colored lights and fat men in red.
from sunny days on the patio to  warm nights filled with jazz, willow street remains the talk of the town.
in los gatos, we’re continuing to help bring the downtown to life.
it’s not that tough.