plus, they freeze well, so double up chicken tetrazzini this mouth-watering pasta and chicken casserole is destined to be a family  favorite.
stuff these yummy pizza pockets with turkey sausage rather than the italian alternative and you've got a low-fat, guilt-free option to traditional pizza.
pizza and pasta are favorite foods for many americans, but you can easily make healthier versions of the italian classics.
but many diabetics avoid spaghetti because most store brands have sugar added to the sauce.
plus, it's heart-healthy when you use lean ground beef to reduce the fat.
pizza pockets stuff these yummy pizza pockets with turkey sausage rather than the italian  alternative and you've got a low-fat, guilt-free option to traditional pizza.
make it with ham or substitute with chicken sausage – or make since the tomatoes in this recipe are uncooked, you’ll want to find the freshest, ripest tomatoes possible.
the pesto and red pepper flakes give it a little  zing while your taste buds delight in the onion and sun-dried tomato pizza this tasty pizza is light enough in calories, fat, carbs and cholesterol  that you can splurge by eating more than one piece.
here's an easy diabetic crushed red pepper and capers give this italian pasta dish a tasty little kick, while the shrimp pack a punch with protein.
makes 2 servings spaghetti is a traditional italian dish that works well with any diabetic diet.
to save some prep time, use frozen peeled uncooked shrimp.
penne pasta with bolognese sauce served atop al dente penne pasta, this hearty meat sauce is easy to make  and always a crowd pleaser!
find out if you qualify today with a free and simple profile: free diabetic supplies form * deductibles and co-pays may apply.
to save some prep time, use  frozen peeled uncooked shrimp.
fresh mushrooms, green onions and pimiento add zest to this  reduced-fat, reduced-sodium version of the linguine with clams and marinara sauce for a succulent seafood and pasta dinner, try this clam-based linguine  with homemade marinara sauce.
cannellini beans, black olives, garlic  and basil lend this dish a tasty flair, « first
http://twitter.com/amdiabetes http://www.facebook.com/pages/american-diabetes/76163528765 http://www.youtube.com/americandiabetesvid copyright © 2010 american diabetes.
plus, they freeze well, so double up this mouth-watering pasta and chicken casserole is destined to be a family favorite.
served atop al dente penne pasta, this hearty meat sauce is easy to make and always a crowd pleaser!
make it with ham or  substitute with chicken sausage – or make fresh pomodoro pasta, white beans & olives since the tomatoes in this recipe are uncooked, you’ll want to find  the freshest, ripest tomatoes possible.
home pizza & pasta viva italia!
the pesto and red pepper flakes give it a little zing while your taste buds delight in the this tasty pizza is light enough in calories, fat, carbs and cholesterol that you can splurge by eating more than one piece.
american diabetes services, a leading supplier of diabetic testing supplies, offers these diabetic pizza and pasta recipes as a healthier yet flavorful alternative to the original.
800-254-4667 viva italia!
fresh mushrooms, green onions and pimiento add zest to this reduced-fat, reduced-sodium version of the for a succulent seafood and pasta dinner, try this clam-based linguine with homemade marinara sauce.
but many diabetics avoid spaghetti because most store brands have sugar  added to the sauce.
cannellini beans, black olives, garlic and basil lend this dish a tasty flair, you could be eligible to receive the testing supplies you need, the easy way, for little or no out-of-pocket cost.
pizza and pasta are favorite foods for many americans, but  you can easily make healthier versions of the italian classics.
american  diabetes services, a leading supplier of diabetic testing supplies, offers  these diabetic pizza and pasta recipes as a healthier yet flavorful alternative  to the original.
makes 2 servings spaghetti spaghetti is a traditional italian dish that works well with any diabetic  diet.
* support plus medical is the supplies division of american diabetes.
plus, it's heart-healthy when you use lean ground  beef to reduce the fat.
here's an easy diabetic spicy shrimp puttanesca crushed red pepper and capers give this italian pasta dish a tasty little  kick, while the shrimp pack a punch with protein.