by memorial day weekend we felt ready and added our whole wheat pizza to the menu.
if you are on a diet and would like to order from beauty's, we do suggest ordering our whole wheat pizza and salads rather than our regular pizza.
you may also find the following guidance from the mit e-well tips newsletter interesting.
now i live a farther away, but still work in the neighborhood, so i would say that i get pizza a couple times a month and always end up ordering beauty's.
here are  some of the emails customers sent!
now i live a farther away, but still work in the  neighborhood, so i would say that i get pizza a couple times a month and always  end up ordering beauty's.
just to let you know that we have ordered the whole wheat crust twice since you put it on the menu for a trial - we love it!
the spinach one was absolutely fantastic.
better control of blood sugar and insulin can keep hunger at bay..."
we hope you enjoy our whole wheat pizza as much as we do!
i think the whole wheat is really good.
i thought  the pizza was very tasty and just as good as other beauty pizzas.
complex carborhydrates take the body a longer amount of time to digest and absorb than refined grains (such as pasta, white bread and white rice).
"released in early january, 2005, the dietary guidelines for americans 2005
it's really thin and tastes good with any topping.
better control of blood sugar and insulin can keep hunger at bay and may prevent the development of type 2 diabetes."
here are some snippets from the nutrition source, a web site maintained  by the department of nutrition at the harvard school of public health.
we would  absolutely get this again.
i like the original crust, but i am trying to get more whole grains in my diet, and the whole wheat pizza is an excellent addition.
whole grains fall under the category of "complex carbohydrates."
the usda  advises that at least half of the grains you consume should be whole.
in april 2005 we called one our first time customers to make sure  she enjoyed her salad and had a good experience with our delivery service.
feeling fuller longer often leads to eating less total calories each day, and having a more steady energy level may help bring you success in reaching your weekly fitness plan goals!"
[document on which mypyramid is based] continues to reflect the tense  interplay of science and the powerful food industry.
in addition to the many nutritional benefits of whole wheat described on this page, our whole wheat pizzas have a thinner crust than our regular pizza.
http://www.mypyramid.gov — the main web site http://www.mypyramid.gov/pyramid/grains.html — information on whole grains http://www.mypyramid.gov/downloads/miniposter.pdf — pdf of the new pyramid that tells you to "make half your grains whole" should half my grains really be whole?
the usda released mypyramid in april 2005.
this keeps blood sugar and insulin levels from rising,  then falling, too quickly.
grains are and have always  been a critical part of our diet.
several of the new  recommendations represent important steps in the right direction."
we make the dough in our shop every day using only whole  wheat flour, honey, yeast, salt and olive oil.
feeling fuller longer  often leads to eating less total calories each day, and having a more steady  energy level may help bring you success in reaching your weekly fitness plan  goals!"
how did beauty's get interested in whole  wheat?
see " why is it  important to eat grains, especially whole grains?" on the mypyramid.gov  web site for basic overview of the importance of eating whole grain.
that's a shame, since refined starches behave like sugar.
next time, i think i might try black beans,  spinach, tomatoes and hot peppers.
whole grains fall  under the category of "complex carbohydrates."
don't stop making it!
i ordered 1 with mushrooms, green peppers and red onions (the special), and 1 with tomatoes and spinach.
here are some links to the official web site accompanying the new pyramid.
our 100% whole wheat crust is priced the same as  an extra topping: $1.25 for medium, $1.50 for large, and $1.75 for extra large.
can whole grain help me lose weight?
next time, i think i might try black beans, spinach, tomatoes and hot peppers.
"the guidelines suggest that it is fine to consume half of our grains as refined starch [non whole grains].
i  finally got the whole wheat pizza today with the suggested toppings.
it was a lifesaver this past weekend when we got back from an  overseas trip and had a bare cupboard!
melanie was very pleased with both but didn't seem too interested in trying our  gourmet pizza!
how did beauty's get interested in whole wheat?
the pyramid can be found atthe nutrition source, a harvard web site.
in april 2005 we called one our first time customers to make sure she enjoyed her salad and had a good experience with our delivery service.
i had 3  other people here try some as well and we all agree it was very good and would  order it again.
at beauty's we do everything fresh!
look at our menu for classic and gourmet pizza prices.
the usda advises that at least half of the grains you consume should be whole.
the pyramid can be found atthe nutrition source, a  harvard web site.
during may 2005 some of our customers helped us taste test our new wheat pizza.
thanks, and keep the good pizza coming.
" the healthy eating pyramid strongly advises eating whole grain foods.
i would  buy that crust everytime.
=) thanks for doing this, and i hope you keep carrying this crust.
what  is the healthy eating pyramid?
as a cambridge or sommerville resident you may want to review information from a source closer to home—the harvard school of public health.
melanie was very pleased with both but didn't seem too interested in trying our gourmet pizza!
it's really thin and tastes good with  any topping.
we make the dough in our shop every day using only whole wheat flour, honey, yeast, salt and olive oil.
here are some links to the official web site  accompanying the new pyramid.
grains are and have always been a critical part of our diet.
basically, it didn't taste super healthy, but thats a good  thing.
for a more scientific explanation, see thecarbohydrates and fiber sections of the nutrition source from the harvard school of public health.
love the thinner crust and the veggies were the perfect combo.
this keeps blood sugar and insulin levels from rising, then falling, too quickly.
"some tips for  increasing fiber intake...replace white rice, bread, and pasta with brown rice  and whole-grain products."
" the healthy eating  pyramid strongly advises eating whole grain foods.
the pyramid "is based on the best available scientific evidence about the links between diet and health.
here are some of the emails customers sent!
here are some snippets from the nutrition source, a web site maintained by the department of nutrition at the harvard school of public health.
from the moment our first "experiment" came out of the oven we fell in love with the taste and texture.
among other things, the new pyramid  emphasizes the need to eat whole grains.
keep up the good work and  make sure someone from the globe hears about you.
;) i just tried the whole wheat pizza and i really enjoyed it.
i love the cheese wheat pizza.....
we ordered the wheat pizza on wednesday night [substituting pepperoni for peppers] and it was amazing!
the best sources of carbohydrates are whole grains such as oatmeal, whole-wheat bread, and brown rice.
they add empty calories, have adverse metabolic effects, and  increase the risks of diabetes and heart disease."
just to let you know that we have  ordered the whole wheat crust twice since you put it on the menu for a trial -  we love it!
mypyramid is the us department of agriculture's replacement for the famous food guide pyramid it last released in 1992.
it was a lifesaver this past weekend when we got back from an overseas trip and had a bare cupboard!
there are many credible sources you can draw on to decide what type of food and exercise are appropriate for you if your goal is to lose weight.
it was so  much better than your regular crust and i liked it thin like it came.
what do customers say about beauty's whole wheat pizza?
why is whole grain healthy?
"if you're trying to find a healthy way to lose weight, increasing the amount of whole grains in your diet might be your answer!
see " why is it important to eat grains, especially whole grains?" on the mypyramid.gov web site for basic overview of the importance of eating whole grain.
the usda  released mypyramid in april 2005.
you can read some of the feedback we received above.
i thought the pizza was very tasty and just as good as other beauty pizzas.
that whole wheat crust was great!
the response was  overwhelmingly positive.
i did like the whole wheat pizza.
she said that she was avoiding pizza for nutritional reasons but  would love to try a whole wheat pizza.
we experimented with several blended flour recipes but decided that we prefer the taste and texture of 100% whole wheat.
because of this, there is only a moderate rise in blood sugar and insulin in the body.
(we removed names and email addresses but included the full email text.)
when our staff came to the  shop at 5 pm that sunday we had them sample the pizza and they were also  incredibly enthusiastic.
what is the  healthy eating pyramid?
many bread products advertised as whole wheat are in fact made from a mixture  of refined flour and whole wheat flour.
you may wonder about the impartiality of the usda given the strength of the food industry lobby.
basically, it didn't taste super healthy, but thats a good thing.
of course, 100% whole wheat is also healthier.
better control of blood sugar and insulin can keep  hunger at bay and may prevent the development of type 2 diabetes."
"the body needs carbohydrates mainly for energy.
over the next few weeks we involved our customers in taste testing and tweaking our recipe.
i would definitely order whole wheat crust again.
the end result is not  only a "full" feeling, but a more consistent level of energy (unlike  the drastic highs and lows that refined grains produce).
the pyramid "is based on the best available scientific  evidence about the links between diet and health.
please make it part of your regular menu.
we need more fast food like this.
is beauty's whole wheat pizza 100% whole wheat?
i finally got the whole wheat pizza today with the suggested toppings.
many bread products advertised as whole wheat are in fact made from a mixture of refined flour and whole wheat flour.
the end result is not only a "full" feeling, but a more consistent level of energy (unlike the drastic highs and lows that refined grains produce).
"released in early january, 2005, the dietary guidelines for americans  2005
our whole wheat crust is made from 100% whole wheat flour.
complex carborhydrates  take the body a longer amount of time to digest and absorb than refined grains  (such as pasta, white bread and white rice).
i just tried the whole wheat pizza; it's  great!
228 a broadway cambridge, ma for free delivery and takeoutorder online or call (617) 876.6969
"most americans consume enough grains, but few are whole grains.
"the body needs  carbohydrates mainly for energy.
whole grain provides significantly more  nutrients and health benefits than refined grain.
the mushroom one was also good, but a little dry...nothing that a little extra sauce wouldn't take care of.
"most americans consume enough  grains, but few are whole grains.
oh yeah, i get beauty's pizza all the time.
among other things, the new pyramid emphasizes the need to eat whole grains.
i like the original  crust, but i am trying to get more whole grains in my diet, and the whole wheat  pizza is an excellent addition.
i would buy that crust everytime.
our 100% whole wheat crust is priced the same as an extra topping: $1.25 for medium, $1.50 for large, and $1.75 for extra large.
i used to live on market st., and could see the  store from my window.
the mushroom one was also  good, but a little dry...nothing that a little extra sauce wouldn't take care  of.
we tried the whole wheat pizza  last night and it was excellent!
my husband is also grateful that you guys don't pile on the  pepperoni and keep it simple.
as a cambridge or sommerville resident you may want to review  information from a source closer to home—the harvard school of public  health.
better control of blood sugar and insulin can keep  hunger at bay..."
when our staff came to the shop at 5 pm that sunday we had them sample the pizza and they were also incredibly enthusiastic.
(we removed names and email addresses but  included the full email text.)
by memorial day weekend we felt ready and added our whole wheat  pizza to the menu.
this new pyramid fixes  fundamental flaws in the usda pyramid and offers sound information to help  people make better choices about what to eat.
that sounded interesting so we emailed some of our customers to gauge interest in whole wheat.
is beauty's whole  wheat pizza 100% whole wheat?
we started experimenting and made dozens of small  batches of dough using different types and amounts of flour and other  ingredients.
this new pyramid fixes fundamental flaws in the usda pyramid and offers sound information to help people make better choices about what to eat.
mypyramid is the us department of agriculture's  replacement for the famous food guide pyramid it last released in 1992.
that's a shame, since refined starches  behave like sugar.
i think it is  as good as the regular crust and i would probably order it every time i call  beauty's.
our whole wheat crust is made from 100%  whole wheat flour.
should half my grains really be whole?
i ordered 1 with  mushrooms, green peppers and red onions (the special), and 1 with tomatoes and  spinach.
some snippets from the nutrition source: "although the fine points of the glycemic index and glycemic load may seem complicated, the basic message is simple: whenever possible, replace highly processed grains, cereals, and sugars with minimally processed whole-grain products."
they deliver the outer (bran) and inner (germ) layers along with energy-rich starch.
they add empty calories, have adverse metabolic effects, and increase the risks of diabetes and heart disease."
i just tried the whole wheat pizza; it's great!
how is beauty's whole wheat pizza priced?
love the thinner crust and the  veggies were the perfect combo.
the healthy eating pyramid is an alternative food guide created by the nutrition department at the harvard school of public health.
beauty's whole wheat pizza faq
the healthy eating pyramid is an  alternative food guide created by the nutrition department at the harvard  school of public health.
we experimented with several blended  flour recipes but decided that we prefer the taste and texture of 100% whole  wheat.
the pizza was delicious - and 100% whole wheat!
the body can't digest whole grains as quickly as it can highly processed carbohydrates such as white flour.
whole grain provides significantly more nutrients and health benefits than refined grain.
i had 3 other people here try some as well and we all agree it was very good and would order it again.
"some tips for increasing fiber intake...replace white rice, bread, and pasta with brown rice and whole-grain products."
what do customers say about  beauty's whole wheat pizza?
guidelines from the school actually suggest that all grains should be whole.
what is the healthy eating pyramid?
you may  wonder about the impartiality of the usda given the strength of the food  industry lobby.
keep up the good work and make sure someone from the globe hears about you.
when i tasted just the crust without toppings, i may prefer the taste of beauty's regular crust a little, but i would definitely order the whole wheat crust again.
there are  many credible sources you can draw on to decide what type of food and exercise  are appropriate for you if your goal is to lose weight.
[document on which mypyramid is based] continues to reflect the tense interplay of science and the powerful food industry.
because of this, there is only a  moderate rise in blood sugar and insulin in the body.
i think it is as good as the regular crust and i would probably order it every time i call beauty's.
guidelines from the school actually suggest that all grains should be  whole.
if you are on a diet  and would like to order from beauty's, we do suggest ordering our whole wheat  pizza and salads rather than our regular pizza.
you can read some of the feedback we  received above.
http://www.mypyramid.gov — the main web site http://www.mypyramid.gov/pyramid/grains.html — information on whole  grains http://www.mypyramid.gov/downloads/miniposter.pdf  — pdf of  the new pyramid that tells you to "make half your grains whole" should half my grains really be whole?
we do not use any preservatives.
how is beauty's  whole wheat pizza priced?
it was so much better than your regular crust and i liked it thin like it came.
can i trust the usda?
home menu about beauty's contact us beauty's whole wheat pizza faq
my husband (whose favorite meal is a burger and fries from mcdonald's) even loved it!
from the moment our first "experiment" came out of the  oven we fell in love with the taste and texture.
in addition to the many  nutritional benefits of whole wheat described on this page, our whole wheat  pizzas have a thinner crust than our regular pizza.
we started experimenting and made dozens of small batches of dough using different types and amounts of flour and other ingredients.
we would absolutely get this again.
we ordered the wheat pizza on wednesday  night [substituting pepperoni for peppers] and it was amazing!
really, it had a nutty taste.
oh yeah, i get  beauty's pizza all the time.
my husband is also grateful that you guys don't pile on the pepperoni and keep it simple.
why is  whole grain healthy?
we need more fast food like  this.
"the guidelines suggest that it is fine to consume half of our grains as  refined starch [non whole grains].
we tried the whole wheat pizza last night and it was excellent!
they deliver the  outer (bran) and inner (germ) layers along with energy-rich starch.
(remember the pyramid depicting different food groups and foods?)
when i tasted  just the crust without toppings, i may prefer the taste of beauty's regular  crust a little, but i would definitely order the whole wheat crust again.
during may  2005 some of our customers helped us taste test our new wheat pizza.
for a  more scientific explanation, see thecarbohydrates and fiber sections of the  nutrition source from the harvard school of public health.
at least half of all the grains eaten should be whole grains."
that sounded interesting so we emailed  some of our customers to gauge interest in whole wheat.
"if you're trying to find a healthy way to lose weight, increasing the  amount of whole grains in your diet might be your answer!
my husband (whose favorite meal is a burger  and fries from mcdonald's) even loved it!
over the next few weeks we involved our customers in  taste testing and tweaking our recipe.
i used to live on market st., and could see the store from my window.
you may also find the  following guidance from the mit e-well tips newsletter interesting.
several of the new recommendations represent important steps in the right direction."
at least half of all the grains eaten should  be whole grains."
i hope you decide to keep it.
the response was overwhelmingly positive.
some snippets  from the nutrition source:  "although the fine points of the glycemic  index and glycemic load may seem complicated, the basic message is simple: whenever possible, replace highly processed grains, cereals, and sugars with  minimally processed whole-grain products."
the best sources of carbohydrates are whole  grains such as oatmeal, whole-wheat bread, and brown rice.
it was light and crunchy and not too 'wheaty' like  some others can be.
it was light and crunchy and not too 'wheaty' like some others can be.
she said that she was avoiding pizza for nutritional reasons but would love to try a whole wheat pizza.
the body  can't digest whole grains as quickly as it can highly processed carbohydrates  such as white flour.