in the lcc  track, students draw on courses in anthropology, education, english,  linguistics, philosophy, and psychology.
the philosophy-neuroscience-psychology major the pnp major is available both as a stand-alone major and as a second major.
in the cn track, pnp majors learn how  biological and behavioral research are consolidated in neuroscience.
neuroscience investigates mental ‘hardware’ by scrutinizing the brain; psychology is concerned with the ‘software’; linguistics affords insights into the mind by exploring language, one of its most complex products; cultural anthropology approaches the mind by looking at the workings of society; and philosophy provides conceptual tools needed for understanding the nature of the mind and its standing in the physical world.
research interests of pnp faculty include the psychology and neurobiology of false memories cognitive and language deficits in schizophrenia neuroimaging studies of vision, attention, language, and memory concepts and conceptual representation philosophy of neuroscience, cognitive science, and science in general african american language and education consciousness and the nature of the self the relation between thought and language the neurobiology of motor control special opportunities related to pnp at washington university washington university affords an ideal setting for the kind of  interdisciplinary research that is a hallmark of pnp.
neuroscience investigates mental ‘hardware’ by  scrutinizing the brain; psychology is concerned with the  ‘software’; linguistics affords insights into the mind by exploring  language, one of its most complex products; cultural anthropology approaches  the mind by looking at the workings of society; and philosophy provides  conceptual tools needed for understanding the nature of the mind and its  standing in the physical world.
philosophy-neuroscience-psychology (pnp) is a unique interdisciplinary  program dedicated to the conviction that answers to the deep questions about  minds and their nature depend on the adoption of a variety of perspectives.
these include biology, linguistics, education, and cultural anthropology.
pnp can help prepare students for many professional and academic fields including medicine, psychology, cognitive science, biology, linguistics, philosophy, and education.
special opportunities  include: the mind-brain-behavior program, a two-year sequence open to a limited  number of incoming students, regardless of major.
pnp students begin with a rigorous grounding in philosophy and psychology,  then develop a multi-faceted perspective on the mind by merging the  contributions of other disciplines.
for more information: http://pnp.artsci.wustl.edu/ office of undergraduate admissions • washington university in st. louis • one brookings drive, st.  louis, mo 63130 (800) 638-0700 or (314) 935-6000 | admissions@wustl.edu
the language, cognition, and culture (lcc) track addresses the importance  of language in human cognition, and the integration of cognition with the  broader cultural milieu.
pnp students develop their skills as critical thinkers and problem solvers in mastering the art of expressing their ideas clearly and defending them cogently.
in addition to philosophy, neuroscience, and psychology, pnp draws upon a  number of allied disciplines that contribute to our understanding of the mind.
majors elect to pursue one of two tracks: the cognitive neuroscience (cn) track integrates the study of higher  brain functioning with behavioral research directed at understanding activities  such as perceiving, attending, remembering, and acting.
the centerpiece of the first  year is a team-taught course focusing on topics in psychology, neuroscience and  philosophy.
pnp majors can pursue honors in pnp during their senior year.
philosophy-neuroscience-psychology  (pnp) what is philosophy-neuroscience-psychology (pnp)?
majors are encouraged to incorporate  empirical research projects into their program of study, and most do.
in the lcc track, students draw on courses in anthropology, education, english, linguistics, philosophy, and psychology.
pnp can help prepare students for many professional and academic fields  including medicine, psychology, cognitive science, biology, linguistics,  philosophy, and education.
each  of the disciplines investigates facets of the mind using distinctive modes of  inquiry.
pnp supports a popular study abroad program at the university of edinburgh  in scotland.
research interests of pnp faculty include special opportunities related to pnp at washington university washington university affords an ideal setting for the kind of interdisciplinary research that is a hallmark of pnp.
the pnp major is ideal for students hoping to develop an understanding of  relationships among the approaches used by these disciplines, and an  appreciation of how they can provide converging perspectives on the mind.
philosophy-neuroscience-psychology faculty pnp students have the opportunity to study with distinguished faculty in the allied disciplines.
pnp students develop their skills as critical  thinkers and problem solvers in mastering the art of expressing their ideas  clearly and defending them cogently.
special opportunities include: for more information: http://pnp.artsci.wustl.edu/office of undergraduate admissions • washington university in st. louis • one brookings drive, st. louis, mo 63130
in the cn track, pnp majors learn how biological and behavioral research are consolidated in neuroscience.
each of the disciplines investigates facets of the mind using distinctive modes of inquiry.
in the sophomore year, students conduct a significant research  project.
in addition to philosophy, neuroscience, and psychology, pnp draws upon a number of allied disciplines that contribute to our understanding of the mind.
philosophy-neuroscience-psychology (pnp) is a unique interdisciplinary program dedicated to the conviction that answers to the deep questions about minds and their nature depend on the adoption of a variety of perspectives.
pnp advisors can help students identify appropriate research  mentors.
opportunities for senior honors research are available throughout the  university.
what is philosophy-neuroscience-psychology (pnp)?
majors elect to pursue one of two tracks: why study philosophy-neuroscience-psychology?
pnp majors are invited to join faculty, graduate students and postdocs at  a monthly lecture series that convenes on the medical school campus.
pnp students begin with a rigorous grounding in philosophy and psychology, then develop a multi-faceted perspective on the mind by merging the contributions of other disciplines.
pnp students have the advantage of gaining a multi-faceted perspective on  their area of interest before pursuing more specialized study after graduation.
why study philosophy-neuroscience-psychology?
the philosophy-neuroscience-psychology major the pnp major is available both as a stand-alone major and as a second  major.
the pnp major is ideal for students hoping to develop an understanding of relationships among the approaches used by these disciplines, and an appreciation of how they can provide converging perspectives on the mind.
philosophy-neuroscience-psychology faculty pnp students have the opportunity to study with distinguished faculty in  the allied disciplines.
majors are encouraged to incorporate empirical research projects into their program of study, and most do.
pnp students have the advantage of gaining a multi-faceted perspective on their area of interest before pursuing more specialized study after graduation.