an examination of key themes of husserl's phenomenology, including the reduction, intentionality, constitution, the life world, and the ego, considering also husserl's relations to other thinkers.
the so-called modern age has been variously described by sociologists, historians and literary critics, and some even hold that we're entering something called the post-modern period.
we will consider: (1) the relationship between philosophy and religious belief: (2) talking about god; (3) proofs for the existence of god; (4) religious experience; (5) miracles.
these also satisfy the  major's requirement in modern philosophy.
the third part will address some public policy questions, in particular some implications for policies treating mental illness.
although those influenced by hume,  kant, and the utilitarians have pursued the aim of universal agreement in  vastly different ways, critics argue that no version of the enlightenment  philosophical project can yield conclusions which command rational agreement on  deeply controversial moral issues.
readings will be drawn both from relatively abstract scholarly work on  jurisprudence and from relatively concrete judicial opinions.
this course satisfies the major's requirement in medieval philosophy.
the philosophy of aristotle (3) a seminar on aristotle's metaphysics, emphasizing careful reading of selected passages.
the first part will study the historical  dependency of science on religion in the christian and moslem worlds, the later  disassociation of the two, and today's reverse movement of making religion  dependent on science.
we will consider inter alia kant's accounts of the beautiful and the sublime, and his theories of taste and aesthetic judgment.
for this reason, among others, a reconsideration of classical views of athenian democracy seems particularly appropriate now.
professor  powers 374.
a course focusing on some of the major themes involved in the debates among the major schools of twentieth century continental philosophy (phenomenology, hermeneutics, and deconstruction), including the notions of meaning and language, time and history, interpretation and understanding, textuality and intertextuality, evidence, and truth.
the thesis will be  argued that greek philosophy sprang from the same roots as the myths, epics,  tragedies and speculation regarding the cosmos, and that not only plato's  thought but the philosophical tradition as a whole is best understood as one of  the creative voices with which the human imagination speaks in its manifold  dialogue concerning the meaning of human existence in the world.
professor bradley 363.
desire and subject: hegel, freud, lacan (3) a study of lacan's attack on the concept of the ego, tracing lacan's thought to hegel, freud, and the structural linguists, and applying his theory to works of plato and shakespeare.
topical seminars require students to write a lengthy final paper (25+ pp.) as well as (typically) a first draft and considerable revision.
the course lectures will attempt to introduce the student to this  contemporary discussion.
gnosticism and the modern imagination (3) a  theoretical consideration of the relation of literature to philosophy and how  the two disciplines can profitably be studied together, focusing on the  frequently advanced hypothesis that the modern imagination is shot through with  gnosticism.
many philosophers, of course, defend the  ideals of the enlightenment against post-modernist and other critics.
professor gomez-lobo 355.
the course will involve not only a development and debate about the theoretical framework of this tradition, but it will also examine practical applications of the tradition of social thought.
the philosophy of aristotle (3) a seminar on  aristotle's metaphysics, emphasizing careful reading of selected passages.
topics will include intentional logic, montague  grammar, type theory, generalized quantifiers, and more.
the family (3) an examination of the family from various perspectives.
professor gomez-lobo 396.
professor bradley 382.
this seminar is a philosophical study of the various ways claims about nature are validated in contemporary science.
the course lectures will attempt to introduce the student to this contemporary discussion.
finally, we will examine the way in which externalist accounts can allow us to reconceptualize current world problems, such as discrimination and the difficult transition to democracy in russia, as problems of agency.
seminars on modern texts.
this will be a survey of recent attempts to generalize or modify classical logic to satisfy various philosophical concerns.
dante and the christian imagination (3) the goal of  this course is to consider the explicitly christian and uniquely contemporary  intellectual relevance of dante's la divina commedia in the context of  the question of human freedom and the role of the imagination in the relation  of the human to the divine.
we will critically examine the effects these practices have on  women as individuals and as a group, and consider some alternatives for a  positive response.
we shall trace some strands of this, and consider them in the light of contemporary experience.
thierry of chartres' commentaries on boethius serve as  a transition to the late medieval/renaissance thinker, nicholas of cusa.
metaphysics (3) this course is a general introduction  to metaphysics.
other  philosophers reply that, even though a plurality of deeply conflicting moral  views may be inevitable, there is hope for a more limited form of impartiality  through which political consensus can be achieved.
this class will look carefully at two theories of morality and at the political theories they inform.
philosophical perspectives on feminism (3) an  examination of the social, moral, and political significance of gender through  the study of a range of feminist texts.
the topics that will engage us include the nature of time, personal identity, minds, free will and knowing reality .
to facilitate the practical applications there  will be guest lecturers, as part of the course, who are involved in direct  social service and action.
the text is  addressed to students of linguistics as well as philosophy (and some parts may  be of interest to those in computer science and cognitive science).
principal topics include nomological-deductive explanation, "hermeneutical" alternatives, the rise and (apparent) fall of behaviorism and the emergence of cognitive science.
boethius' consolation and tractate iii (quomado substantia) are  then treated at length.
his critique of judgment .
themes whose development will be studied will probably include the  nature and limits of self-determination, the dependence of nature on mind  (idealism), and the place of reason and morality in human life.
philosophy of religion (3) speaking about contemporary  english language philosophers, time magazine grandly proclaimed that "god is making a comeback!"
the topics covered  vary from year to year.
a  course covering a representative sample of plato's major dialogues from each  period in the development of his thought.
aristotle's social science (3) this course will focus on close reading of aristotle's two major works of social science, the nichomachean ethics and the politics .
professor farre 493.
although those influenced by hume, kant, and the utilitarians have pursued the aim of universal agreement in vastly different ways, critics argue that no version of the enlightenment philosophical project can yield conclusions which command rational agreement on deeply controversial moral issues.
human rights: ethical theory/political practice (3) this course will present some of the major philosophical and theological ways  of understanding the scope and significance of human rights, focusing  particularly on the liberal, marxist, and catholic traditions.
the concepts of consequence, validity,  derivability, and truth under an interpretation will be examined.
the course has two numbers.
professor blattner 354.
history of modern philosophy ii (3) a study of the search for an apodeictic metaphysics in kant and his idealistic successors such as hegel and fichte, and the rejection of idealism by feuerbach, marx, kierkegaard, and nietzsche.
philosophy of mind (3) a study of metaphysical and epistemological problems concerning mental phenomena, including the mind-body problem, the problem of other minds, and the problem of the validity of introspection.
introduction to logic (3) a general study of  arguments, and of their conditions of soundness, covering inductive and  deductive logic, traditional aristotelian and modern symbolic logic.
boethius and medieval neoplatonism (3) a course  emphasizing the metaphysics, theory of knowledge and philosophical anthropology  of representative thinkers of the medieval neoplatonic tradition.
this course  satisfies the major's requirement in ancient philosophy .
professor  blattner 245.
moral problems in contemporary medical practice and public policy such as informed consent, euthanasia, confidentiality, the allocation of scarce resources, and paternalism are analyzed and discussed.
the focus will be on three themes: the theory of simple natures, the theory of the creation of eternal truths, and descartes' doctrine of ideas (especially the role of the objective being of ideas).
professor gomez-lobo 229.
the ethics of aquinas and kant (3) a study of the  principal differences in the ethical theories of aquinas and kant,  concentrating on the treatises on happiness and law of aquinas, and on the  three critiques and the groundwork of kant.
professor  bradley 388.
responsibility, luck, and tragic error (3) a detailed  exploration of the role of ignorance, error, luck, and conflict in bringing  about the downfall of a tragic hero.
plato (3) a study of some of the central themes of plato's philosophy, involving a close reading of texts.
to facilitate the practical applications there will be guest lecturers, as part of the course, who are involved in direct social service and action.
prerequisite: logic 202 or  378.
this course satisfies  the major's requirement in ancient philosophy.
biomedical ethics (3)
this course  is part of the interdisciplinary curriculum in cognitive science.
plato's metaphysics and epistemology (3) a course tracing the origins and development of plato's so-called "theory of forms," focusing on the apology, meno, phaedo, symposium, republic, theaetetus , and parmenides , and concluding with aristotle's criticisms.
a seminar examining the political philosophies of plato and aristotle, who believed the task of the political philosopher was to determine which of all the conflicting beliefs about what is morally good or bad is true, and in the light of the truth so determined, to propound the right order for the polis or city-state.
through social contexts such as advertising, popular  media, and pornography, we will identify ways that our culture constructs our  understanding of gender and, more specifically, femininity.
professor ambrosio 486.
among the major topics to be  discussed are: the form of aristotle's social science and its relation to more  contemporary models, the relation between political philosophy and moral  philosophy and the usefulness of the aristotelian framework for engaging moral  and political questions within a democratic culture.
philosophical foundations of psychology and cognitive science (3) this course examines the metaphysical foundations of psychology with special attention to various reductionistic strategies and to resulting problems of explanation.
an examination of  catholic thought about what it means to be human.
theory of knowledge (3) a study of the traditional  representative, phenomenalist, and idealist theories of perception, the nature  of perceptual experience, and the analysis of knowledge.
greek ethics (3) a study of greek ethical thought at  the turn of the fourth century b.c.
wittgenstein's  psychology (3)
the relation of sexism and racism, the moral and legal status of pornography, the ethics of abortion, and conceptions of liberation will be addressed.
kant's aesthetics (3) a study of kant's aesthetics and philosophy of art, involving a close reading of texts, esp.
hegel (3) an examination of hegel's systematic views  on various topics in philosophy.
this course  satisfies the major's requirement in modern philosophy.
we shall trace some strands  of this, and consider them in the light of contemporary experience.
prerequisite: phil 378.
these do not satisfy any major's history requirement.
plato's metaphysics and epistemology (3) a course  tracing the origins and development of plato's so-called "theory of  forms," focusing on the apology, meno, phaedo, symposium, republic,  theaetetus , and parmenides , and concluding with aristotle's  criticisms.
philosophy and anti-philosophy (3) a consideration of various reflections upon the history of western philosophy and of the resultant claims (1) that philosophy can recover its traditional mission and (2) that this traditional conception of philosophy must be overcome or discarded.
human freedom (3) an attempt to develop philosophical  approaches to the question of human freedom, identifying how this question  bears on our existence today, and seeking to enter the historical conversation  it has provoked.
plato/aristotle: political philosophy (3)
this course satisfies the major's requirement in ancient philosphy .
to do this we will look at three representative books by robert pippin, richard rorty, and alasdair maclntyre that attempt to update and defend each of three positions.
philosophy of nature: a philosophical analysis of contemporary science (3) our knowledge of nature is encoded in languages, which in the best cases are created explicitly for that purpose.
professor  farre 464.
an introduction to computer analysis of hegel's phenomenology, on self-consciousness as desire, kant's moral theory, forgiveness, "spirit," the enlightenment, utilitarianism, rousseau and the french revolution, and virtue ethics.
students will be encouraged to take an  active part in classroom discussion.
the course will examine the  different approaches to bioethical thought (e.g. theories, principles, cases,  virtues).
the content will be  adjusted somewhat, depending on the interests of the students.
human rights: ethical theory/political practice (3) this course will present some of the major philosophical and theological ways of understanding the scope and significance of human rights, focusing particularly on the liberal, marxist, and catholic traditions.
professors ambrosio and collins 359.
the politics of equality (3) this course explores the  liberal commitment to equality, examining different (and often conflicting)
the text is addressed to students of linguistics as well as philosophy (and some parts may be of interest to those in computer science and cognitive science).
plato's political dialogues (3) a study of seven  platonic dialogues, focusing on general questions about the purpose of  politics, the platonic critique of democracy, and the relation between  politics, education, and philosophy.
an examination of the social, moral, and political significance of gender through the study of a range of feminist texts.
professor langan 235.
the course will involve not only a development and debate about the theoretical  framework of this tradition, but it will also examine practical applications of  the tradition of social thought.
to do this we will look at  three representative books by robert pippin, richard rorty, and alasdair  maclntyre that attempt to update and defend each of three positions.
early greek thought (3) an examination of the  development of greek values from homer to socrates.
permission needed from instructor.
this course satisfies the  major's requirement in modern philosophy.
philosophy of science (3) an examination of some of the principal themes in the philosophical study of scientific knowledge.
heidegger (3) a systematic reading of heidegger's being and time , focusing on his "existential analytic," or  ontology of human existence.
these themes provide the background for a consideration of descartes' cogito and the proofs for the existence of god.
we will take a look at traditional "internalist" accounts of human freedom (like kant's), which explain free agency as given by natural human features such as rationality.
an examination of arguments by aquinas and kant that reason needs to be completed by faith if we are to achieve the final goal of human life.
along the way we will ask whether pragmatism  is inherently relativistic, and whether it is a viable philosophy (by  confronting some examples of the best criticisms of pragmatism).
we will consider inter alia kant's accounts of the  beautiful and the sublime, and his theories of taste and aesthetic judgment.
professor reuscher 371, 671.
descartes' conception of science will be the last topic considered.
in this course ethical theory is  critically examined and applied to moral problems in health care, occasionally  through the medium of case studies.
professors  ambrosio and collins 359.
where appropriate and only in passing we will also consider  the relation between this debate and the ethical theories of its participants.
this course satisfies the major's requirement in modern  philosophy.
professor blattner 245.
central topics will be being, truth, substance, form and matter, actuality and  potentiality, and god.
professor sharpe 462.
a course tracing  the conflict between the philosophical life and the political life in the  writings of plato, aristotle, cicero, epicurus, and augustine.
topical seminars require students to write a lengthy final paper  (25+ pp.) as well as (typically) a first draft and considerable revision.
we will take a look at traditional "internalist" accounts of human  freedom (like kant's), which explain free agency as given by natural human  features such as rationality.
we will consider: (1)
professor ambrosio 466.
aristotle's social science (3) this course will focus  on close reading of aristotle's two major works of social science, the nichomachean ethics and the politics .
biomedical ethics (3) the course is designed to  introduce students to the discipline of bioethics.
the presentation and criticism of each theory will be related to the authors' metaphysics.
th is course satisfies the major's  requirement in medieval philosophy.
also a treatment of representative speculative  philosophies of history, notably that of hegel.
professor ver eecke 236.
this  view culminates with herodotus and sophocles.
we will read excerpts from the writings of many great  philosophers, extract key concepts and arguments and then analyze those arguments .
they will be asked to do some additional work which, in most cases, will be a  class presentation.
among these are his theory of knowledge, philosophy of history, philosophy of religion, social philosophy, and philosophy of art.
among these are his theory of knowledge,  philosophy of history, philosophy of religion, social philosophy, and  philosophy of art.
in this course, we will investigate  human freedom, what it is, how we have it, and how having it makes us agents.
kant's aesthetics (3) a study of kant's aesthetics and  philosophy of art, involving a close reading of texts, esp.
this course satisfies the major's requirement in modern philosophy.
we  will look at both ethical theory and applied issues, such as new reproductive  technologies, women as research subjects, and the distribution of health care  benefits.
professors lance and wildes 240.
topics to be considered may include: the nature of law, legal interpretation, the obligation to obey the law, constitutional rights, due process, legal responsibility, and punishment.
these also satisfy the major's requirement in modern philosophy.
one or a small handful of texts will be the focus of  discussion.
philosophical argumentation (3) a practicum in the discipline of philosophical dialogue, both oral and written.
philosophical modernity (3)
professor pinkard 472.
text seminars (3) these courses are small,  intensive seminars that aim to teach students how to read and write about  philosophical texts.
such enduring issues as the mind/body problem, personal identity, and (dread) "cartesianism" are examined as these bear upon the assets and liabilities of "folk" psychology.
idealism/pragmatism/historicism (3) an exploration of the historical connections but mostly the philosophical connections between the positions represented by the labels, (hegelian) "idealism," "historicism," and "pragmatism."
social and political philosophy (3) a study of  theories of justice and conceptions of liberty, equality, and the affiliative  virtues in political philosophy.
rather than assuming that public  policy is responsive to concerns in the moral domain, the course will examine  the ways in which morality should, ideally, shape public policy issues with  particular attention to the demands of justice with regard to equality and  liberty.
one of these seminars is required of all philosophy majors.
topics in medieval philosophy (3) a study of selected topics in medieval philosophy, such as free will and foreknowledge, omnipotence and benevolence, issues in metaphysics, medieval logic, etc.
wittgenstein's psychology (3)
philosophical perspectives on feminism (3)
professor langan undergraduate bulletin table of contents © copyright 1996
their exclusive use of  the description and modeling of nature has called into question the validity of  the representations of nature thus produced.
philosophy of religion (3) course lectures will  provide a general introduction to the main issues.
professor ambrosio 285.
we will also read quite a few independent articles on the subject by other authors and some pieces by hegel.
many philosophers, of course, defend the ideals of the enlightenment against post-modernist and other critics.
a course covering a representative sample of plato's major dialogues from each period in the development of his thought.
philosophy of mind (3) a study of metaphysical and  epistemological problems concerning mental phenomena, including the mind-body  problem, the problem of other minds, and the problem of the validity of  introspection.
the third part will constitute a critique of the contemporary movement to derive religious belief from scientific knowledge, especially from cosmology and evolution, by extrapolation.
a course considering issues in contemporary philosophy of law and political theory.
a course on two areas in which psychoanalysis presents a challenge to philosophy: the traditional concept of ego, and the connection between language and sexuality, focusing on freud and lacan.
recent events in many  geographical areas raise doubts not only about whether authoritarianism has  permanently disappeared but also about the directions which authentically  democratized regimes might follow.
history of modern philosophy i (3) an analysis of the  philosophies of descartes, spinoza, leibniz, locke, berkeley, and hume,  together with a survey of other significant developments in the seventeenth and  eighteenth centuries.
professor heelan 386.
the second part will study the nature of scientific knowledge and religious knowledge in order to identify their different sources, rhetorics, and modes of generation.
a central theme of the course is the note of complicatio-explicatio schema in metaphysics and theory of knowledge.
philosophy of history (3) a consideration of the main themes in a critical philosophy of history: explanation, objectivity, causality, and truth in history.
the problem of knowledge (3) a text-based study of the dominant strategies behind the debate over the possibility of knowledge that began with plato and, at least in its classical version, reached a conclusion of sorts in kant.
existentialism (3) an investigation of the historical and contemporary significance of tensions characterizing human existence in the 20th century, considering kierkegaard, nietzsche, sartre, heidegger, and marcel.
among the topics  to be examined are: divine commands, natural law, civil religion, religious  liberty, religious pluralism, varying definitions of morality and religion,  implications for applied ethics.
a seminar  examining the political philosophies of plato and aristotle, who believed the  task of the political philosopher was to determine which of all the conflicting  beliefs about what is morally good or bad is true, and in the light of the  truth so determined, to propound the right order for the polis or city-state.
philosophy and anti-philosophy (3) a consideration of  various reflections upon the history of western philosophy and of the resultant  claims (1) that philosophy can recover its traditional mission and (2) that  this traditional conception of philosophy must be overcome or discarded.
the first part will be an exercise in philosophical anthropology making use of the psychoanalytic approach to the family.
texts vary from semester to semester, and a  student may take more than one text seminar.
(not offered  1996-97.)
this class will look  carefully at two theories of morality and at the political theories they  inform.
professor davis 440.
authors to be considered include locke, mill, rawls, and nozick.
we will study the nature of oppression, conceptions of equality, gender norms, stereotypes and roles, and the viability of competing explanations of gender difference.
concepts of self (3) this course will be an examination of historical and contemporary conceptions of the self, focusing on the unity and identity of the self, self deception, responsibility for self and the problem of "moral luck."
professor robinson 254.
professor wildes 351.
history of modern philosophy ii (3) a study of the  search for an apodeictic metaphysics in kant and his idealistic successors such  as hegel and fichte, and the rejection of idealism by feuerbach, marx,  kierkegaard, and nietzsche.
professor gomez-lobo 204.
accounts of how this commitment is best realized through social institutions  and political arrangements, particularly given our differences of gender, race,  culture, vulnerability, and need.
the politics of equality (3) this course explores the liberal commitment to equality, examining different (and often conflicting) accounts of how this commitment is best realized through social institutions and political arrangements, particularly given our differences of gender, race, culture, vulnerability, and need.
imagination and reality (3) a study of how human  achievements in art, literature, philosophy, and spirituality contribute to and  are shaped by the all-pervasive communal interpretation of reality, focusing on  the nature of truth and knowledge.
religion and morality (3)
existentialism (3) an investigation of the historical  and contemporary significance of tensions characterizing human existence in the  20th century, considering kierkegaard, nietzsche, sartre, heidegger, and  marcel.
science and values (3) a course on the effect of our understanding of nature on the perception of values, consisting of both general lectures and individual tutorials.
much of the course is organized around the principles of autonomy, justice, nonmaleficence, and beneficence.
professors richardson or sherman 260.
boethius and medieval neoplatonism (3) a course emphasizing the metaphysics, theory of knowledge and philosophical anthropology of representative thinkers of the medieval neoplatonic tradition.
ethics (3) an introductory course examining the  foundations of ethics and competing ethical theories.
the course will examine  classical and contemporary views of philosophers and theologians on the nature  of the connections between religious beliefs and moral norms.
we will study the nature of oppression,  conceptions of equality, gender norms, stereotypes and roles, and the viability  of competing explanations of gender difference.
seminars on other texts.
we will be considering also the notion of  an agent's mitigated responsibility and a spectator's response in terms of  judgments of equity and feelings of pity.
other 100-level courses focus on special topics in ethics.
close attention will be given to  differences within feminist thought of these issues.
these also satisfy the major's requirement in ancient philosophy.
in this course  we shall evaluate pragmatism by looking at its consequences, by examining how  it applies to the fields of law (legal realism), education (progressive),  politics (participatory democracy).
professor heelan 422.
in so doing, we  will see how these constructions limit the development of self-identify and  self-esteem.
dante and the christian imagination (3) the goal of this course is to consider the explicitly christian and uniquely contemporary intellectual relevance of dante's la divina commedia in the context of the question of human freedom and the role of the imagination in the relation of the human to the divine.
topics in philosophical logic (3) logics of necessity  and possibility, time and tense, knowledge, belief, entailment.
central topics will be being, truth, substance, form and matter, actuality and potentiality, and god.
the content will be adjusted somewhat, depending on the interests of the students.
his critique of  judgment .
hegel (3) an examination of hegel's systematic views on various topics in philosophy.
many of the issues tackled by medieval thinkers, especially those of a moral or social and political nature, remain with us today.
whether or not god needs or can make  a "comeback," there has been, to be sure, an important resurgence of  philosophical interest and attention to the main issues in the philosophy of  religion.
philosophy of religion (3) course lectures will provide a general introduction to the main issues.
this course will seek to explore the connections between self-conceptions and alternative moral theories.
the third part will constitute a critique  of the contemporary movement to derive religious belief from scientific  knowledge, especially from cosmology and evolution, by extrapolation.
liberalism (3) an historical and critical investigation of the anglo-saxon liberal tradition.
environmental ethics (3) in this course we will examine different types of environmental ethical theory, their relationship to non-western views of environmental concern and their response to the claims of ecofeminism.
professor mctighe 411.
environmental ethics (3) in this course we will  examine different types of environmental ethical theory, their relationship to  non-western views of environmental concern and their response to the claims of  ecofeminism.
this development is marked by an early phase during which the poetic tradition tries to go beyond popular religion and seeks to ground justice upon a refined view of the divine.
contents vary from section to section.
a course focusing  on some of the major themes involved in the debates among the major schools of  twentieth century continental philosophy (phenomenology, hermeneutics, and  deconstruction), including the notions of meaning and language, time and  history, interpretation and understanding, textuality and intertextuality,  evidence, and truth.
moral problems in contemporary medical  practice and public policy such as informed consent, euthanasia,  confidentiality, the allocation of scarce resources, and paternalism are  analyzed and discussed.
this  course satisfies the major's requirement in logic.
an examination of catholic thought about what it means to be human.
topics will vary from year to year.
philosophy and psychoanalysis (3)
the topics covered vary from year to year.
this course satisfies the major's  requirement in medieval philosophy.
human freedom (3) an attempt to develop philosophical approaches to the question of human freedom, identifying how this question bears on our existence today, and seeking to enter the historical conversation it has provoked.
professor bradley 264.
we will read excerpts from the writings of many great philosophers, extract key concepts and arguments and then analyze those arguments .
authors to be studied will probably include kant, hegel, nietzsche, and heidegger.
much of the course is organized around the principles  of autonomy, justice, nonmaleficence, and beneficence.
this course satisfies the major's requirement in ancient philosophy.
we will also examined "externalist" critiques (like foucault's) which suggest that people are made free by being treated that way, that agency is, in an important sense, socially constructed.
professor drummond 481.
professor pinkard 452.
professor pinkard 409.
fall professor lewis 293.
history of medieval philosophy (3) a survey of the  history of medieval philosophy, covering augustine, boethius, anselm, abelard,  aquinas, duns scotus, ockham, and others.
the consequences of pragmatism (3) william james wrote that pragmatism is an attitude or orientation: "the attitude of looking away from first things, principles, 'categories,' supposed necessities; and of looking towards last things, fruits, consequences, facts."
among the topics to be examined are: divine commands, natural law, civil religion, religious liberty, religious pluralism, varying definitions of morality and religion, implications for applied ethics.
the second will study hegel's understanding of the family as a commitment as opposed to kant's view which relies on the concept of contract.
one of these seminars is required of all  philosophy majors.
students will be encouraged to take an active part in classroom discussion.
just war (3) a study of the bearing of just war theory  on the morality of nuclear deterrence and responses to terrorism, and on  broader issues of ethical theory and international order.
the philosophical issues will be examined by looking at the different areas of moral controversy in bioethics (e.g. research ethics, euthanasia, termination of the treatment, abortion, aids, the allocation of health care resources).
prerequisite: logic 202 or 378.
prerequisites: psychology 001 and  philosophy 001.
texts vary from semester to semester, and a student may take more than one text seminar.
science and values (3) a course on the effect of our  understanding of nature on the perception of values, consisting of both general  lectures and individual tutorials.
although we will use a variety of authors, classical and contemporary, our  focus will be on contemporary problems.
an examination of the scope, structure, and accomplishments of kant's thought.
history of medieval philosophy (3) a survey of the history of medieval philosophy, covering augustine, boethius, anselm, abelard, aquinas, duns scotus, ockham, and others.
one of these seminars is required of all philosophy majors, and must be completed by the end of the junior year.
aristotle (3) a study of aristotle's philosophy,  explaining basic concepts, methods, and issues.
professor ver eecke 402.
the final part will turn to the contributions that a theological perspective on sexuality and marriage can introduce.
these also satisfy the  major's requirement in medieval philosophy.
feminist bioethics (3) this course will examine how  feminist theory can illuminate our reflections on the ethics of health care.
professor carse 392.
the course  begins with a consideration of the greek origins of neoplatonism in plotinus.
professor blattner or pinkard 495.
professor sherman 370.
descartes (3) this course will be a close examination of descartes' metaphysics.
we will look at both ethical theory and applied issues, such as new reproductive technologies, women as research subjects, and the distribution of health care benefits.
special attention will be paid to heidegger's critique of the traditional, philosophical preoccupation with human cognition, and to his attempt to emphasize our primordial familiarity with the world, i.e., practical skill and attunement to what matters.
human rights (3) this course will present some of the  major philosophical and theological ways of understanding the scope and  significance of human rights, focusing particularly on the liberal, marxist,  and catholic traditions.
through social contexts such as advertising, popular media, and pornography, we will identify ways that our culture constructs our understanding of gender and, more specifically, femininity.
a course focusing chiefly on  selected contemporary aesthetic theories from the anglo-american and  continental traditions, but also examining traditional theories as background  for the contemporary discussion.
the construction of woman (3) starting from a theoretical examination of the concepts of gender and oppression, we will explore the ways in which social practices and representations of women impact our lived experiences.
professor reuscher 404/530.
professor hasnas 415.
rather than assuming that public policy is responsive to concerns in the moral domain, the course will examine the ways in which morality should, ideally, shape public policy issues with particular attention to the demands of justice with regard to equality and liberty.
philosophy of art (3)
three models of mind (3) a comparison of the theories  of mental activity proposed by aristotle, aquinas and kant.
aquinas: law, morality, and politics (3) an  examination of the thomistic theory of natural law as the foundation for  aquinas's moral and political theory.
this course is part of the interdisciplinary curriculum in  cognitive science.
recent events in many geographical areas raise doubts not only about whether authoritarianism has permanently disappeared but also about the directions which authentically democratized regimes might follow.
professor reuscher 438.
philosophical foundations of psychology and cognitive science (3) this course examines the metaphysical foundations of psychology with  special attention to various reductionistic strategies and to resulting  problems of explanation.
authors to be considered  include locke, mill, rawls, and nozick.
this course satisfies the major's requirement in medieval philosophy .
moral pluralism and politican consensus (3) most philosophers since the enlightenment have assumed that the task of moral philosophy is to define an impartial point of view from which universal agreement on moral questions is possible.
seminars on ancient texts.
professor drummond 356.
professor langan 475.
german philosophers from kant to the present (3) a  survey of the development of german philosophy from kant to the present day.
philosophy of law (3) this course consists of philosophical reflection on issues that arise when one considers that most pervasive of social institutions, the law.
in this course we shall discuss medieval approaches to a number of such modern problems, including many of the following: abortion, capital punishment, the relations between law and morality and between religion and government, and ethical issues involved in business.
gnosticism and the modern imagination (3) a theoretical consideration of the relation of literature to philosophy and how the two disciplines can profitably be studied together, focusing on the frequently advanced hypothesis that the modern imagination is shot through with gnosticism.
professor powers 430.
from this perspective democratic theory's most important task would be to consider (again) both the possibilities and the hazards of democratic practices and institutions.
satisfies the ethics core  requirement.
(not offered 1996-97) professor brough or beauchamp 360.
an examination of the scope, structure, and  accomplishments of kant's thought.
professors mctighe and fort 268.
moral pluralism and politican consensus (3) most  philosophers since the enlightenment have assumed that the task of moral  philosophy is to define an impartial point of view from which universal  agreement on moral questions is possible.
professor wildes 421.
professor wildes 253.
the course will focus on medical practice in the 19th and 20th centuries as an icon of the modern age, viewing modern medical practice as the outcome of forces in science, social and economic structures.
professor pinkard 455.
the course will examine classical and contemporary views of philosophers and theologians on the nature of the connections between religious beliefs and moral norms.
philosophy of religion (3) speaking about contemporary english language philosophers, time magazine grandly proclaimed that "god is making a comeback!"
the philosophy of wittgenstein (3) this course is designed to introduce upperclassmen and graduate students to the philosophical thought of wittgenstein and to its implications for various traditional questions of philosophy.
professor bradley 295.
constraints  imposed by moral principles, ethos patterns, and legal rules will be analyzed  following kant, hegel, rawls, buchanan, and sen. spring.
professor davis 450.
professor mctighe 433.
the focus will be on three themes: the theory of  simple natures, the theory of the creation of eternal truths, and descartes'  doctrine of ideas (especially the role of the objective being of ideas).
boethius' consolation and tractate iii (quomado substantia) are then treated at length.
ethics of non-violence (3) professor lance 165.
human rights (3) this course will present some of the major philosophical and theological ways of understanding the scope and significance of human rights, focusing particularly on the liberal, marxist, and catholic traditions.
self-identity (3) many people think that what is distinctive about humans is the way in which they have a conscious self-identity, and some moral theorists have suggested that our basic conceptions of morality depend on our self-conceptions.
the so-called modern age  has been variously described by sociologists, historians and literary critics,  and some even hold that we're entering something called the post-modern period.
readings will draw from greek tragedy, aristotle's poetics and ethics, and contemporary readings on moral responsibility and luck.
ethics (3) an introductory course examining the foundations of ethics and competing ethical theories.
american pragmatism (3) an examination of the epistemological, ethical, and political thought of american pragmatists, both in the movement's "classical" phase, represented by peirce, james, and dewey, and in its contemporary embodiment, in the persons (probably) of rorty, putnam, nelson (a feminist pragmatist), and perhaps others.
history of ancient philosophy (3) the development of greek philosophy from its beginnings to the end of the fourth century b.c., with emphasis on works of plato and aristotle.
this course satisfies the major's requirement in ancient philosophy .
we will critically examine the effects these practices have on women as individuals and as a group, and consider some alternatives for a positive response.
professor brough 442.
for this reason, among  others, a reconsideration of classical views of athenian democracy seems  particularly appropriate now.
in this course ethical theory is critically examined and applied to moral problems in health care, occasionally through the medium of case studies.
a course considering issues in  contemporary philosophy of law and political theory.
they will be asked to do some additional work which, in most cases, will be a class presentation.
philosophy of medicine (3) a survey and exploration of the conceptual issues that underlie how medical knowledge, explanation, and practice are understood.
greek ethics (3) a study of greek ethical thought at the turn of the fourth century b.c.
the final part will turn to the contributions  that a theological perspective on sexuality and marriage can introduce.
philosophy and cognitive science (3) a philosophical  study of the "cognitive sciences," considering artificial  intelligence, the biology of mind, information theory, computation theory, and  the relation between language and mental structure.
other 100-level courses  focus on special topics in ethics.
this  course satisfies the major's requirement in modern philosophy.
four ethical traditions (3) an examination of theories  of moral obligation which attempt to set out, in a systematic way, what we  should and should not do, studying plato, aristotle, mill, hume, hobbes, and  contemporary authors representing these traditions.
contemporary european philosophy (3)
this course satisfies the major's requirement in  ancient philosophy.
professor reuscher 490.
professor bradley 388.
professor wetzel 365.
readings will be drawn both from relatively abstract scholarly work on jurisprudence and from relatively concrete judicial opinions.
precise topics and authors vary from semester to semester.
philosophy of language (3) a study of the nature of meaning and reference from a philosophical perspective, focusing on the relationships among meanings, referents, properties, ideas, conventions, intentions, the uses of language, and speech acts.
the  relationship between philosophy and religious belief: (2) talking about god;  (3) proofs for the existence of god; (4) religious experience; (5) miracles.
precise themes and  texts will vary from semester to semester.
the central topics are the nature of power,  the ethics of self-interest, the claims of justice, and the search for the good.
the consequences of pragmatism (3) william james wrote  that pragmatism is an attitude or orientation: "the attitude of looking  away from first things, principles, 'categories,' supposed necessities; and of  looking towards last things, fruits, consequences, facts."
this course satisfies the major's  requirement in ancient philosphy .
we finally study socrates as the philosopher who attempts to find a  new foundation for moral values.
professor gomez-lobo or sherman 407.
satisfies the ethics  core requirement.
philosophy of history (3) a consideration of the main  themes in a critical philosophy of history: explanation, objectivity,  causality, and truth in history.
among the major topics to be discussed are: the form of aristotle's social science and its relation to more contemporary models, the relation between political philosophy and moral philosophy and the usefulness of the aristotelian framework for engaging moral and political questions within a democratic culture.
readings will draw from greek  tragedy, aristotle's poetics and ethics, and contemporary readings on moral  responsibility and luck.
topics to be considered may include:  the nature of law, legal interpretation, the obligation to obey the law,  constitutional rights, due process, legal responsibility, and punishment.
the concepts of consequence, validity, derivability, and truth under an interpretation will be examined.
relativism (3) an examination of the relativity of truth to a conceptual scheme, the incommensurability of conceptual schemes, and the justifiability of changing conceptual schemes.
the course will examine the different approaches to bioethical thought (e.g. theories, principles, cases, virtues).
professor langan 301, 302.
the construction of woman (3) starting from a  theoretical examination of the concepts of gender and oppression, we will  explore the ways in which social practices and representations of women impact  our lived experiences.
themes will range over the nature of  right conduct and the good, the spoken and the written word, the relation  between the individual and the state, the theory of ideas, and the nature of  knowledge.
the topics that will engage us include the  nature of time, personal identity, minds, free will and knowing reality .
students will write a significant number of short, analytical papers.
in so doing, we shall study john dewey, william james, justice oliver wendell holmes, jr., and other pragmatists, as well as critics of the application of the pragmatic method to american life and thought, such as walter lippman.
introduction to logic (3) a general study of arguments, and of their conditions of soundness, covering inductive and deductive logic, traditional aristotelian and modern symbolic logic.
prerequisite: a text seminar.
permission needed from  instructor.
we will concentrate on the question that dominated classical political philosophy, the question of the best political order and how to initiate it.
descartes (3) this course will be a close examination  of descartes' metaphysics.
philosophy of nature: a philosophical analysis of contemporary  science (3) our knowledge of nature is encoded in languages, which in  the best cases are created explicitly for that purpose.
the third part  will address some public policy questions, in particular some implications for  policies treating mental illness.
this course satisfies  the major's requirement in modern philosophy.
this course will seek  to explore the connections between self-conceptions and alternative moral  theories.
the course will focus on medical  practice in the 19th and 20th centuries as an icon of the modern age, viewing  modern medical practice as the outcome of forces in science, social and  economic structures.
not a course in  formal logic, but rather a challenge to students to explain and justify their  fundamental beliefs.
the emphasis will be on the continuity of  wittgenstein's thought during his philosophical evolution.
along the way we will ask whether pragmatism is inherently relativistic, and whether it is a viable philosophy (by confronting some examples of the best criticisms of pragmatism).
feminist bioethics (3) this course will examine how feminist theory can illuminate our reflections on the ethics of health care.
philosophy of science (3) an examination of some of  the principal themes in the philosophical study of scientific knowledge.
in this course, we examine arguments for and against the prospects for an impartial basis for resolving moral disagreement, as well as arguments for an against an impartial framework for achieving political consensus in a pluralist society.
mathematical logic (3) a study of turing machines, computability, truth, incompleteness, and other topics in mathematical logic.
professor ver eecke 456.
(this course can be taken for credit in philosophy or psychology).
the seminar will involve a close exegesis of the texts in order to discern what  is the contemporary relevance of the philosophical issues therein.
professor reuscher 393.
the ethics of aquinas and kant (3) a study of the principal differences in the ethical theories of aquinas and kant, concentrating on the treatises on happiness and law of aquinas, and on the three critiques and the groundwork of kant.
hegel: phenomenology (3)
professor ambrosio 434.
philosophy of law (3)
professor ambrosio 410.
th is course satisfies the major's requirement in medieval philosophy.
where appropriate and only in passing we will also consider the relation between this debate and the ethical theories of its participants.
in this course, we examine arguments for  and against the prospects for an impartial basis for resolving moral  disagreement, as well as arguments for an against an impartial framework for  achieving political consensus in a pluralist society.
aquinas and kant on faith and reason (3) an  examination of arguments by aquinas and kant that reason needs to be completed  by faith if we are to achieve the final goal of human life.
the next stage is characterized  by the deep skepticism best represented in the work of thucydides and the  sophists.
many of the issues tackled by medieval thinkers, especially  those of a moral or social and political nature, remain with us today.
just war (3) a study of the bearing of just war theory on the morality of nuclear deterrence and responses to terrorism, and on broader issues of ethical theory and international order.
philosophical problems arising from painting,  sculpture, and architecture will be emphasized particularly.
the moral theory of thomas aquinas (3) the stephen f. mcnamee, s.j. lectureship in thomistic ethics an introduction to the moral theory of thomas aquinas as an integral part of his intellectual achievement as a christian thinker, focusing on his overall vision, and on the relation between philosophy and theology.
a  central theme of the course is the note of complicatio-explicatio schema  in metaphysics and theory of knowledge.
readings will be drawn from moral and  political theory, legal theory, and feminist theory.
imagination and reality (3) a study of how human achievements in art, literature, philosophy, and spirituality contribute to and are shaped by the all-pervasive communal interpretation of reality, focusing on the nature of truth and knowledge.
mathematical logic (3) a study of turing  machines, computability, truth, incompleteness, and other topics in  mathematical logic.
readings will be drawn from moral and political theory, legal theory, and feminist theory.
professor langan 390.
we will  also read quite a few independent articles on the subject by other authors and  some pieces by hegel.
the course begins with a consideration of the greek origins of neoplatonism in plotinus.
the first part will study the historical dependency of science on religion in the christian and moslem worlds, the later disassociation of the two, and today's reverse movement of making religion dependent on science.
special attention will be paid to three basic themes of pragmatism: "the pragmatic maxim," which holds that the meaning of a belief is spelled out by its practical implications; epistemological, moral, and political consequentialism, which asserts that consequences are more important than principles and premises in assessing the truth of beliefs; and holism, which claims that all of a person's (or maybe even a society's) beliefs and actions have their meaning and must be assessed as a single unit.
person in the catholic tradition (3)
this course satisfies the major's  requirement in medieval philosophy .
from this perspective democratic theory's  most important task would be to consider (again) both the possibilities and the  hazards of democratic practices and institutions.
science and religion (3) a study of the relationship between science and religion.
in this course, we will examine the way in which a set of contemporary  philosophers conceive of the meaning of modernity and post-modernity and what that might mean for theories of knowledge, ethics and the  philosophy of history.
text seminars (3) these courses are small, intensive seminars that aim to teach students how to read and write about philosophical texts.
relativism (3) an examination of the relativity of  truth to a conceptual scheme, the incommensurability of conceptual schemes, and  the justifiability of changing conceptual schemes.
finally, we will examine the way in which externalist accounts can allow us to  reconceptualize current world problems, such as discrimination and the  difficult transition to democracy in russia, as problems of agency.
the thesis will be argued that greek philosophy sprang from the same roots as the myths, epics, tragedies and speculation regarding the cosmos, and that not only plato's thought but the philosophical tradition as a whole is best understood as one of the creative voices with which the human imagination speaks in its manifold dialogue concerning the meaning of human existence in the world.
in so doing, we will see how these constructions limit the development of self-identify and self-esteem.
the second part will study the nature of scientific  knowledge and religious knowledge in order to identify their different sources,  rhetorics, and modes of generation.
in this course, we will examine the way in which a set of contemporary philosophers conceive of the meaning of modernity and post-modernity and what that might mean for theories of knowledge, ethics and the philosophy of history.
medieval thinkers, modern problems (3) the years between about 1100 and 1350 were a period of intensive intellectual activity in the western world.
philosophy of medicine (3) a survey and  exploration of the conceptual issues that underlie how medical knowledge,  explanation, and practice are understood.
also a treatment of representative speculative philosophies of history, notably that of hegel.
enrollment is restricted to  philosophy majors and minors.
these  themes provide the background for a consideration of descartes' cogito and the proofs for the existence of god.
professor little 378.
this course satisfies the major's requirement in  medieval philosophy.
professor chance 310-329.
professor davis 419.
biomedical ethics (3) the course is designed to introduce students to the discipline of bioethics.
the course will attempt to situate  the development of plato's thought against the broader horizon of the evolution  of the greek cultural imagination as a whole, emphasizing the rootedness of his  philosophical thought in the greek mytho-poetic tradition.
descartes' conception of science will  be the last topic considered.
themes will range over the nature of right conduct and the good, the spoken and the written word, the relation between the individual and the state, the theory of ideas, and the nature of knowledge.
philosophical problems arising from painting, sculpture, and architecture will be emphasized particularly.
metaphysics (3) this course is a general introduction to metaphysics.
professor ver  eecke 482, 682.
precise themes and texts will vary from semester to semester.
early greek thought (3) an examination of the development of greek values from homer to socrates.
a course tracing the conflict between the philosophical life and the political life in the writings of plato, aristotle, cicero, epicurus, and augustine.
topics in medieval philosophy (3) a study of selected  topics in medieval philosophy, such as free will and foreknowledge, omnipotence  and benevolence, issues in metaphysics, medieval logic, etc.
not a course in formal logic, but rather a challenge to students to explain and justify their fundamental beliefs.
other philosophers reply that, even though a plurality of deeply conflicting moral views may be inevitable, there is hope for a more limited form of impartiality through which political consensus can be achieved.
the presentation  and criticism of each theory will be related to the authors' metaphysics.
(not professor harré 400.
an introduction to the history and main problems of philosophy.
this course satisfies the major's requirement in ancient  philosophy.
professor carse 413.
topical seminars these courses are small, intensive seminars that aim to teach students how to write an extended piece of philosophy.
we finally study socrates as the philosopher who attempts to find a new foundation for moral values.
liberalism (3) an historical and critical  investigation of the anglo-saxon liberal tradition.
aristotle (3) a study of aristotle's philosophy, explaining basic concepts, methods, and issues.
their claim is that  reasonable persons have sufficient grounds for setting aside controversial  aspects of their comprehensive moral views for the sake of political consensus.
we will also examined "externalist"  critiques (like foucault's) which suggest that people are made free by being  treated that way, that agency is, in an important sense, socially constructed.
their claim is that reasonable persons have sufficient grounds for setting aside controversial aspects of their comprehensive moral views for the sake of political consensus.
professor richardson 497.
we will look at such perennial puzzles as (1) the relationship between faith and reason; (2) the epistemic value of religious experience; (3) classical proofs for god's existence; (4) the meaning and function of "religious language;" (5) the problem of evil as a disproof for the existence of god; (6) miracles; (7) the significance of religious pluralism.
plato's political dialogues (3) a study of seven platonic dialogues, focusing on general questions about the purpose of politics, the platonic critique of democracy, and the relation between politics, education, and philosophy.
however, some critics also reject arguments made on behalf of a purely political conception of impartiality.
beauchamp, brough, davis (chair),  gomez-lobo, langan, mann (emeritus), mctighe (emeritus), pinkard, sherman, ver  eecke, heelan > associate professors: ambrosio, blattner, bradley, farre,  kuhn, lance, lewis, powers, reuscher, richardson assistant professors carse, little, murphy, wetzel, wildes the kennedy institute: veatch (director), walters  (director, center for bioethics) other: allen (law center), brescia (calvary hospital),  hasnas (gsb), harré (psychology), pellegrino (case), robinson  (psychology) 001.
catholic social thought (3) the course will provide an overview of the catholic social tradition in areas such as war and peace, economics, health care, capital punishment, and other issues of social justice.
responsibility, luck, and tragic error (3) a detailed exploration of the role of ignorance, error, luck, and conflict in bringing about the downfall of a tragic hero.
topical seminars these courses are small,  intensive seminars that aim to teach students how to write an extended piece of  philosophy.
the moral theory of thomas aquinas (3) the stephen f.  mcnamee, s.j. lectureship in thomistic ethics an introduction to the moral  theory of thomas aquinas as an integral part of his intellectual achievement as  a christian thinker, focusing on his overall vision, and on the relation  between philosophy and theology.
professor ver eecke 405.
plato (3) a study of some of the central themes of  plato's philosophy, involving a close reading of texts.
such enduring  issues as the mind/body problem, personal identity, and (dread)  "cartesianism" are examined as these bear upon the assets and  liabilities of "folk" psychology.
professor ver eecke 482, 682.
a course on two  areas in which psychoanalysis presents a challenge to philosophy: the  traditional concept of ego, and the connection between language and sexuality,  focusing on freud and lacan.
although we will use a variety of authors, classical and contemporary, our focus will be on contemporary problems.
we will look at such perennial puzzles as (1) the  relationship between faith and reason; (2) the epistemic value of religious  experience; (3) classical proofs for god's existence; (4) the meaning and  function of "religious language;" (5) the problem of evil as a  disproof for the existence of god; (6) miracles; (7) the significance of  religious pluralism.
professor  farre 493.
classical political philosophy (3)
in so doing, we shall study john dewey,  william james, justice oliver wendell holmes, jr., and other pragmatists, as  well as critics of the application of the pragmatic method to american life and  thought, such as walter lippman.
an examination of the relationship between these two leading german philosophers of the enlightenment.
aquinas: law, morality, and politics (3) an examination of the thomistic theory of natural law as the foundation for aquinas's moral and political theory.
(not  offered 1996-97.)
history of modern philosophy i (3) an analysis of the philosophies of descartes, spinoza, leibniz, locke, berkeley, and hume, together with a survey of other significant developments in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.
symbolic logic (3) a study of a formal system representing rules of good reasoning.
these do not satisfy any  major's history requirement.
plato's dialogues: myth, drama, philosophy (3 )
the aim will be to see what sorts of public standards of conduct can be legislated defensibly in a truly fair state.
the seminar will involve a close exegesis of the texts in order to discern what is the contemporary relevance of the philosophical issues therein.
an introduction to computer  analysis of hegel's phenomenology, on self-consciousness as desire, kant's  moral theory, forgiveness, "spirit," the enlightenment,  utilitarianism, rousseau and the french revolution, and virtue ethics.
desire and subject: hegel, freud, lacan (3) a study of  lacan's attack on the concept of the ego, tracing lacan's thought to hegel,  freud, and the structural linguists, and applying his theory to works of plato  and shakespeare.
philosophy of law (3) this course consists of  philosophical reflection on issues that arise when one considers that most  pervasive of social institutions, the law.
the aim will be to see what sorts of public standards of conduct can be  legislated defensibly in a truly fair state.
the problem of knowledge (3) a text-based study of the  dominant strategies behind the debate over the possibility of knowledge that  began with plato and, at least in its classical version, reached a conclusion  of sorts in kant.
satisfies the ethics core requirement.
an examination of key themes of  husserl's phenomenology, including the reduction, intentionality, constitution,  the life world, and the ego, considering also husserl's relations to other  thinkers.
the goal of this  course is to consider the explicitly christian and uniquely contemporary  intellectual relevance of dante's la divina comedia in the context of  the question of human freedom and the role of the imagination in the relation  of the human to the divine.
graduate students should enroll in the higher numbered course.
professor pinkard 420/721.
constraints imposed by moral principles, ethos patterns, and legal rules will be analyzed following kant, hegel, rawls, buchanan, and sen. spring.
the first part will be an exercise in philosophical  anthropology making use of the psychoanalytic approach to the family.
thierry of chartres' commentaries on boethius serve as a transition to the late medieval/renaissance thinker, nicholas of cusa.
in this  course we shall discuss medieval approaches to a number of such modern  problems, including many of the following: abortion, capital punishment, the  relations between law and morality and between religion and government, and  ethical issues involved in business.
american pragmatism (3) an examination of the  epistemological, ethical, and political thought of american pragmatists, both  in the movement's "classical" phase, represented by peirce, james,  and dewey, and in its contemporary embodiment, in the persons (probably) of  rorty, putnam, nelson (a feminist pragmatist), and perhaps others.
idealism/pragmatism/historicism (3) an exploration of  the historical connections but mostly the philosophical connections between the  positions represented by the labels, (hegelian) "idealism,"  "historicism," and "pragmatism."
professor ambrosio 398.
professor farre 464.
topics will  vary from year to year.
social responsibility of business (3) an examination of the ethical foundations of economic activity, the general relationship between the business firm and society, and the role of ethical judgment in business decisions, and the rights and responsibilities that go with various roles in business relationships.
close attention will be given to differences within feminist thought of these issues.
each  seminar will focus on a set topic, but students will develop their own research  project within the scope of that topic.
four ethical traditions (3) an examination of theories of moral obligation which attempt to set out, in a systematic way, what we should and should not do, studying plato, aristotle, mill, hume, hobbes, and contemporary authors representing these traditions.
theory of knowledge (3) a study of the traditional representative, phenomenalist, and idealist theories of perception, the nature of perceptual experience, and the analysis of knowledge.
professor deichman 309.
one or a small handful of texts will be the focus of discussion.
professor brough 463.
in this course, we will investigate human freedom, what it is, how we have it, and how having it makes us agents.
kant's critique of theology and religion (3) an  examination of kant's arguments for his claims about the limits of both the  possibility of knowledge about god and the role of religion in a rational life.
the course will attempt to situate the development of plato's thought against the broader horizon of the evolution of the greek cultural imagination as a whole, emphasizing the rootedness of his philosophical thought in the greek mytho-poetic tradition.
professors: beauchamp, brough, davis (chair), gomez-lobo, langan, mann (emeritus), mctighe (emeritus), pinkard, sherman, ver eecke, heelan > associate professors: ambrosio, blattner, bradley, farre, kuhn, lance, lewis, powers, reuscher, richardson assistant professors carse, little, murphy, wetzel, wildes the kennedy institute: veatch (director), walters (director, center for bioethics) other: allen (law center), brescia (calvary hospital), hasnas (gsb), harré (psychology), pellegrino (case), robinson (psychology) 001.
ethics, economics, and public choice (3) a demonstration that resource allocation takes one beyond economics.
(not offered 1996-97.)
special  attention will be paid to three basic themes of pragmatism: "the pragmatic  maxim," which holds that the meaning of a belief is spelled out by its  practical implications; epistemological, moral, and political consequentialism,  which asserts that consequences are more important than principles and premises  in assessing the truth of beliefs; and holism, which claims that all of a  person's (or maybe even a society's) beliefs and actions have their meaning and  must be assessed as a single unit.
professor ver eecke 401.
the  second will study hegel's understanding of the family as a commitment as  opposed to kant's view which relies on the concept of contract.
professor reuscher 491.
(this course can be taken for credit in philosophy or  psychology).
concepts of self (3) this course will be an  examination of historical and contemporary conceptions of the self, focusing on  the unity and identity of the self, self deception, responsibility for self and  the problem of "moral luck."
the goal of this course is to consider the explicitly christian and uniquely contemporary intellectual relevance of dante's la divina comedia in the context of the question of human freedom and the role of the imagination in the relation of the human to the divine.
special attention will be paid to heidegger's  critique of the traditional, philosophical preoccupation with human cognition,  and to his attempt to emphasize our primordial familiarity with the world,  i.e., practical skill and attunement to what matters.
science and religion (3) a study of the relationship  between science and religion.
ethics, economics, and public choice (3) a  demonstration that resource allocation takes one beyond economics.
the family (3) an examination of the family from  various perspectives.
among the medieval authors to be read (in  english translation) are: st. thomas aquinas, william of ockham, and john duns  scotus.
this course satisfies the major's requirement in logic.
professor mctighe 219.
among the medieval authors to be read (in english translation) are: st. thomas aquinas, william of ockham, and john duns scotus.
professor lewis 395.
professor carse 479.
philosophy and cognitive science (3) a philosophical study of the "cognitive sciences," considering artificial intelligence, the biology of mind, information theory, computation theory, and the relation between language and mental structure.
professor langan undergraduate bulletin table of contents © copyright 1996, georgetown university
catholic social thought (3) the course will provide an  overview of the catholic social tradition in areas such as war and peace,  economics, health care, capital punishment, and other issues of social justice.
whether or not god needs or can make a "comeback," there has been, to be sure, an important resurgence of philosophical interest and attention to the main issues in the philosophy of religion.
these also satisfy the major's requirement in medieval philosophy.
one of  these seminars is required of all philosophy majors, and must be completed by  the end of the junior year.
heidegger (3) a systematic reading of heidegger's being and time , focusing on his "existential analytic," or ontology of human existence.
this course satisfies the  major's requirement in ancient philosophy .
an introduction to the  history and main problems of philosophy.
the relation of sexism and  racism, the moral and legal status of pornography, the ethics of abortion, and  conceptions of liberation will be addressed.
in this course we shall evaluate pragmatism by looking at its consequences, by examining how it applies to the fields of law (legal realism), education (progressive), politics (participatory democracy).
enrollment is restricted to philosophy majors and minors.
philosophical logic (3)
topics in philosophical logic (3) logics of necessity and possibility, time and tense, knowledge, belief, entailment.
this will be a survey of  recent attempts to generalize or modify classical logic to satisfy various  philosophical concerns.
this course  satisfies the major's requirement in medieval philosophy.
students will write a significant number of short, analytical  papers.
their exclusive use of the description and modeling of nature has called into question the validity of the representations of nature thus produced.
kant's critique of theology and religion (3) an examination of kant's arguments for his claims about the limits of both the possibility of knowledge about god and the role of religion in a rational life.
an examination of the relationship  between these two leading german philosophers of the enlightenment.
these also satisfy  the major's requirement in ancient philosophy.
professor blattner 383.
we will  concentrate on the question that dominated classical political philosophy, the  question of the best political order and how to initiate it.
professor ambrosio 470.
each seminar will focus on a set topic, but students will develop their own research project within the scope of that topic.
a course focusing chiefly on selected contemporary aesthetic theories from the anglo-american and continental traditions, but also examining traditional theories as background for the contemporary discussion.
ethics and public policy (3)
, georgetown university
philosophy of language (3) a study of the nature of  meaning and reference from a philosophical perspective, focusing on the  relationships among meanings, referents, properties, ideas, conventions,  intentions, the uses of language, and speech acts.
professor farre 377.
professor bradley 397.
symbolic logic (3) a study of a formal system  representing rules of good reasoning.
a course on wittgenstein's theories of mind, thought  and language, touching on his earlier work but focusing his later views  concerning private experience, perception, the nature of language and meaning,  belief and other topics.
professor  gomez-lobo 204.
professor farre 424.
social and political philosophy (3) a study of theories of justice and conceptions of liberty, equality, and the affiliative virtues in political philosophy.
this development is marked  by an early phase during which the poetic tradition tries to go beyond popular  religion and seeks to ground justice upon a refined view of the divine.
principal topics include nomological-deductive  explanation, "hermeneutical" alternatives, the rise and (apparent)  fall of behaviorism and the emergence of cognitive science.
(not offered 1996-97) professor brough or  beauchamp 360.
this course  satisfies the major's requirement in ancient philosophy.
themes whose development will be studied will probably include the nature and limits of self-determination, the dependence of nature on mind (idealism), and the place of reason and morality in human life.
the philosophical issues will be examined by looking at the different  areas of moral controversy in bioethics (e.g. research ethics, euthanasia,  termination of the treatment, abortion, aids, the allocation of health care  resources).
the course  has two numbers.
history of ancient philosophy (3) the development of  greek philosophy from its beginnings to the end of the fourth century b.c.,  with emphasis on works of plato and aristotle.
the central topics are the nature of power, the ethics of self-interest, the claims of justice, and the search for the good.
three models of mind (3) a comparison of the theories of mental activity proposed by aristotle, aquinas and kant.
professor mctighe 384.
the philosophy of wittgenstein (3) this course is  designed to introduce upperclassmen and graduate students to the philosophical  thought of wittgenstein and to its implications for various traditional  questions of philosophy.
this seminar is a philosophical  study of the various ways claims about nature are validated in contemporary  science.
this course is part of the interdisciplinary curriculum in cognitive science.
this course satisfies the  major's requirement in medieval philosophy.
this course satisfies the major's  requirement in modern philosophy.
self-identity (3) many people think that what is  distinctive about humans is the way in which they have a conscious  self-identity, and some moral theorists have suggested that our basic  conceptions of morality depend on our self-conceptions.
professor davis 203.
introduction to philosophy (3)
dante and the christian imagination(3)
topics will include intentional logic, montague grammar, type theory, generalized quantifiers, and more.
aquinas and kant on faith and reason (3)
philosophy tutorial (3, 3) staff 307.
medieval thinkers, modern problems (3) the years between  about 1100 and 1350 were a period of intensive intellectual activity in the  western world.
this view culminates with herodotus and sophocles.
prerequisites: psychology 001 and philosophy 001.
professor murphy 250.
professor powers 374.
authors to be studied will probably include kant, hegel, nietzsche, and  heidegger.
we will be considering also the notion of an agent's mitigated responsibility and a spectator's response in terms of judgments of equity and feelings of pity.
philosophical argumentation (3) a practicum in the  discipline of philosophical dialogue, both oral and written.
this course satisfies the major's requirement in  modern philosophy.
a course on wittgenstein's theories of mind, thought and language, touching on his earlier work but focusing his later views concerning private experience, perception, the nature of language and meaning, belief and other topics.
the emphasis will be on the continuity of wittgenstein's thought during his philosophical evolution.
german philosophers from kant to the present (3) a survey of the development of german philosophy from kant to the present day.
the next stage is characterized by the deep skepticism best represented in the work of thucydides and the sophists.
seminars on medieval texts.
however, some critics also reject arguments made on behalf of a purely  political conception of impartiality.
social responsibility of business (3) an examination  of the ethical foundations of economic activity, the general relationship  between the business firm and society, and the role of ethical judgment in  business decisions, and the rights and responsibilities that go with various  roles in business relationships.