students’ responses to the question why they chose psychology of religion indicate that the majority of theology students select the paper out of a general interest in people or in religious behaviour more specifically (table 1).
psychology ought to make a big difference to theology but the present  structures don’t allow it.
two students cited their scientific interests as a reason for including  psychology in their degree programme whilst one elected to do psychology  because it was going to be useful in his future pastoral work.
it’s not repeated to order… you cannot study it scientifically.
the rationale of the course is to  approach religion as a psychological rather than just cultural and social  phenomenon, by providing an overview of the key religious topics (see below) in  light of modern psychological methods and theories.
12 moral development without religion has been studied, so why not with  religion… religion is a major part of great many people’s lives.
it is a common trend among theology students not to attend lectures  on the grounds that they can cover the syllabus by reading.
in psychology, it may  not be accepted that one can study something that has no conclusion.
whilst ppp students were not asked this question in the same context, they  repeatedly conveyed that psychology was conceptually a great deal easier for  them than philosophy.
but i think  that’s…a lot of christians probably accept that you cannot reach  that conclusion through reason and scientifically
you can study the experiences that religion invokes and try to reduce  that to a physiological level, for example, brainwaves.
but it is  not clear why, that is, what exactly motivates the students to select a paper  that is outside their main discipline.
yes, but not a hard-core science, which i consider physics and chemistry to be.
we did two topics… two major essays on it…
you don’t really talk much about that in your normal theological  papers.
the psychology of religion course consists of one term of lectures (eight)  and one term of tutorials (eight) per student.
several were manifestly aware of the possible links between the brain and certain religious experiences (example 17), including a student who suggested that it would be interesting for psychology to study the “god-spots” in the brain.
so… we wouldn’t be able to form interesting models, i wouldn’t have thought.
the information about students’ attendance at the core lectures in psychology of religion will become relevant when we look at the challenges that they encounter in studying psychology.
i think  that religious belief is different from most other emotions and understandings  of the human mind.
because  in philosophy and theology you get a bit of armchair psychology…  that’s as far as it goes, whereas psychology is much more concerned about  how people actually (?) and also the consequences of the changes on them.
i think faith is a belief in something that even if  all the doctrines are taken away, and there is no bible and no place to  worship, there would still be a belief that there is something higher than  you....
three of those 11 had attended seminars in philosophical  psychology and concluded that psychology was still closer to philosophy than to  science (example 5).
the lectures cover topics such as origin of religious concepts in human development, different aspects of religious experience (e.g., prayer, conversion), moral development, and religious cognition across life span as well as psychology of religion applied to health and education.
moreover, in the opinion of five (out of 17) students cited below, psychology and theology are in need of further and deeper integration.
whilst ppp students were not asked this question in the same context, they repeatedly conveyed that psychology was conceptually a great deal easier for them than philosophy.
there should be a course called ppt (psychology, philosophy & theology).
there isn’t  a great deal of overlap between psychology of religion and theology papers.
it  could be argued that, as far as their understanding of religion goes, ppp  students’ conception of psychology is closer to that of wundt, who  defined of psychology as a study of sensory processes, than of william james,  who saw psychology as the science of mental life.
but the best thing about psychology is the short chunk given to read,  not a whole book like in theology.
it’s a different approach because  it’s using experiments, whereas theology isn’t.
it’s really  interesting.
the two groups are also similar with regard to their prior familiarity with  psychology as a discipline.
in the case of ppp students, however, the more likely explanation of their misconceptions is the lack of any educational input about religion.
the main practical problem in teaching mainstream psychology to theology students would be the lack of psychology staff with sufficient interests in theology so as to make relevant links between the two disciplines.
a few of the typical explanations for not attending lectures are cited below.
whilst there is a wide range of views within each group, ppp students tend to use stricter criteria when judging the scientific status of psychology than their theology counterparts, which is even more clearly stated in their responses to the next question.
that after death you don’t just die and rot away.
john  millbank (author of theology and social theory) is against looking at theology  from other disciplines.
i accepted that  psychological explanations are very different.
it’s not like reading a book … but it’s not abstract, it’s very certain.
it’s an awful excuse, but it’s  quite far away.
i think that religious belief is different from most other emotions and understandings of the human mind.
in psychology, it may not be accepted that one can study something that has no conclusion.
finally, finding out about students’ experiences with the current psychology of religion paper is relevant to any further integration between psychology and theology or religious studies.
i suppose other people say that with psychology you have to make too many inferences and the (?) too complicated to understand with experiments but, i think, you can use those exact same arguments on something like the structure of the universe, which is a science as well.
fourteen participants were finalists;  four were in their second year, and two in their first year.
contrary to the general trend of teaching the “traditional” psychology of religion topics in theology departments, namely, psychoanalysis, pastoral, and social psychology, the data obtained in the current project provide clear evidence that theology students perceive scientific psychology as both relevant to their studies and interesting.
philosophy can’t answer religious questions.
fourteen participants were finalists; four were in their second year, and two in their first year.
finally, theology students have all  chosen psychology of religion as one of their optional papers whereas none of  the ppp students has studied psychology of religion either formally or  informally.
telephone: (+44)113 3434184 | email: enquiries@prs.heacademy.ac.uk | fax: (+44)113 3433654 help | accessibility | search | registration | cymru | scotland
amidst clear views regarding the possible relationship between psychology and theology, there were sporadic instances of a confounded understanding concerning the role of each discipline in the study of religion.
students’ understanding of psychology as a science of human religious  experience in the broadest sense is a question of interest for at least two  reasons.
first, the current science-religion debate leaves out psychology as a science of mental life and behaviour.
i think it can be studied scientifically,  objectively, in that you can make observations… you can look at patterns  of behaviour, look at history, but i think it is very difficult to quantify  people’s behaviour, and i think that’s the problem with psychology  and sociology as well and why they think what they think.
i think it could be; it would provide a nice twang with philosophy of  religion.
the oxford course in the psychology of religion, offered to theology  (single honours) and philosophy and theology (joint honours) students, is  distinct in that its content is broader, addressing religious development  across life span and stressing the importance of empirical research and  evidence in the study of human behaviour.
i know that you can’t apply psychology to two thousand years ago but the conversion topic derives from christianity and the nt.
it answers quite a lot of questions that i have in theology.
but for how religion changes behaviour, i think that a sociological approach is far more fitting.
three questions tapped the challenges of studying psychology as part of a theology curriculum.
i got the feeling that perhaps a module on theology for the psychologists would be helpful in their studies.
among the theology group, 10 students were male  and 10 female.
for example, the majority of theology  students have studied religion at a-level whilst significantly fewer ppp  students took a-level religious studies.
i think it shows you a different approach.
the more human aspects of it can, but religion is also of a very particular type, and as such, science cannot throw much light on it.
in connection with each topic, students receive  guidance for further reading that includes modern empirical studies of  different aspects of religious behaviour and experience, in addition to some of  the classical titles from the history of psychology (james, freud, jung).
put simply, psychology could be seen as the most relevant of the sciences to theology students.
not surprisingly, the most common difficulties for theology students consisted of the understanding of tables, statistics, technical terms, and the lack of background knowledge of science in general.
in short, the current project was designed to examine the impact of  teaching a predominantly science-based psychological content to humanities  students, most of whom have no prior familiarity either with psychology or with  scientific approaches as part of their degree studies.
i suppose, if you take a science to be an approach, or a kind of  methodological way of looking at things, may be to that extent ….
1 through the whole paper, most of the psychologists i read, they  seem almost quite… pleasantly baffled about theology.
if we take into account that many theology students also study philosophy as part of their degree, the difference between the two groups regarding their motives for studying psychology is even smaller.
only one of the 20 theology students had attended the core lectures one term prior to having tutorials, as i recommend.
i always see psychologists interfering were they really shouldn’t be.
the fact that seven out of 32 ppp students (22%) choose the philosophy of religion paper suggests an interest in religion, contrary to the stereotypes about an incompatibility between scientific and religious interests.
i always put my non-lecture commitments first because … generally  … i am happy in the library reading.
with certain aspects of faith, like prayer, i almost think it’s not an issue that can be tested.
next, and as an indirect way of approaching the  same issue, they were also asked what, if anything, was easy in psychology.
the following two students make the point rather eloquently.
only.9  participants were asked for their views on (a) how the two disciplines fitted  together, and (b) whether psychology was relevant to their study of theology.
i  know that you can’t apply psychology to two thousand years ago but the  conversion topic derives from christianity and the nt.
it is, if you look at its methods, backed up by evidence.
the two questions elicited consistent responses per student and can be reported  jointly.
conceptually, i think, it was a bit easier than something like buddhism or the nature of religion, which were a couple of papers i did recently.
it is very methodological, it is very data oriented… i feel that my education beforehand was like a philosophical approach, there was much more theory, not so much about scientific experiments.
(there is) no connection between psychology and theology; psychology  never cites theology, a discipline of several centuries (standing).
i really enjoy science and wanted  initially to study science but then became very interested in philosophy.
coming from a charismatic  background and to find, for example, that worship services are one of (?)
i don’t  think (that) anything is beyond the reach of being studied scientifically,  absolutely, but some things are very difficult to get at, at the moment, but  will eventually… like very abstract things are quite hard to analyse.
in tutorials, students have a greater choice of topics which to research for their weekly essays on a specific question and subsequently discuss its content and style of argument.
the interviews were taped as well as recorded by pen and were subsequently fully transcribed.
i was very interested in doing philosophy, anyway….
thirteen of the students had attended tutorials with me as their tutor (mostly singly), three students were tutored by a theologian with a background in psychology, three were due to take the paper the following term, and one student who had intended to take the paper had subsequently changed her mind.
and it reminds you that there is a different, more scientific way of looking at things than one does in philosophy and theology.
16 much more scientific than i had expected.
1 there are aspects of religion which can be studied scientifically… cultural aspects, or seeing how religion develops within the individual but there is something that cannot be studied empirically, that is beyond the rational domain.
well … scientific to me in terms of the methods that are  undertaken; otherwise you wouldn’t present its results in a table or give  you a statistic that psychology would.
among the misconceptions is the  notion that psychology may be in a position to say something about god; that  personal aspects of religion are beyond the reach of psychology; and that  psychology can tackle only the historical and sociological aspects of religion.
because there were some conclusions that were drawn and some  discussions, which, i didn’t feel, were quite subtle.
but you need the philosophical component also.
(there is) no connection between psychology and theology; psychology never cites theology, a discipline of several centuries (standing).
provide clear evidence that theology students perceive scientific psychology as  both relevant to their studies and interesting.
first, theology students were asked to say what they found to be difficult in psychology.
we did  two topics… two major essays on it…
reasons for choosing psychology (theology examples: 6, 14; ppp examples: 15,  18).8 6 i guess it was just for a bit of variety, really, and because  quite a lot of papers in theology are historical and biblical studies which i  didn’t find that interesting… as an option paper i wanted  something that was a bit more thoughtful and, perhaps, related to questions  that i have myself.
an important source of frustration for a number of students has been the  perceived lack of connection between psychology and theology when such  connections appear obvious.
10 i would avoid pa, which is too laden with assumptions… freud and  jung are kind of theologies in their own right.
i think it could be; it would provide a nice twang with philosophy of religion.
i’ve always been interested in science, especially biology, but also very interested in philosophy.
although the material presented so far sufficiently indicates that theology  students do perceive psychology as a science, the next stage of the report
in other words, james had a clear vision of psychology of religion as a branch of natural science and a methodologically demanding subject.
first, whilst the two groups have a similar level of prior familiarity with psychology as a discipline, they differ markedly with regard to their prior background in science in general.
the last category of response (“up to a point”) is of interest  because it demonstrates both the subtleties of understanding among the students  (e.g., genuine methodological concerns) and, also, their misconceptions about  the nature of the psychological approach.
the main interest of such a comparison is that ppp students do not have the option of studying psychology of religion, however, based on their choices of philosophy of religion as a paper, a number of them seem to be interested in religion as a subject of study.
like why people are religious and that applies to the question why people believe in different religions.
in this regard, teaching of scientific psychology to theology students makes a greater interdisciplinary contribution to their education than the more literary psychological approaches.
although theology students appear to have a more correct understanding than their ppp counterparts regarding the contribution that psychology can make to the study of religion, both groups of students often confound religion as a psychological topic with religion as a theological topic.
this part of the project was designed to investigate students’ conceptions of psychology as a science, on the one hand, and the applicability of psychological research methods to the study of religion, on the other.
but you have to… 8 up to a point… there are certain things that, i think, science can’t ever prove or show, and are just matters of faith.
such queries are relevant especially in view of the empirically based content of the oxford course.
although they had valuable insights, their research was only ever scratching the surface of theology and i felt there was a lot more (?) but to do that, you need a better understanding of what theology is.
i really enjoy science and wanted initially to study science but then became very interested in philosophy.
reading articles from psychological journals was frequently mentioned as  being comparatively difficult albeit, in many cases, an enjoyable challenge, as  the example below suggests.
secondly, the science-religion debate would be broadened by increasing students’ awareness of psychology as a science of mental life.
data pertaining to each section of the project will be reported separately for theology and ppp students, followed by direct comparisons where relevant.
for instance, is it a genuine interest in human religious nature, a pleasant diversion from their main discipline, or a strategic choice in order to broaden their educational skills and thereby secure better employability prospects?
moreover,  in the opinion of five (out of 17) students cited below, psychology and  theology are in need of further and deeper integration.
it gave me a chance to find out about the scientific approaches… wonderfully, much more rigorous, a real breath of fresh air.
there is so much that i found quite surprising, its scope… religious  experience, prayer, conversion, mysticism…
accordingly, the question of interest in this comparison is whether the two groups arrive at a different conception of psychology as a science and to what extent they think that religion as a human phenomenon can be studied by scientific psychology.
but for how religion  changes behaviour, i think that a sociological approach is far more fitting.
in short, the aim of the  course is to enable students to differentiate between psychology and the other  disciplines of religious studies notably anthropology, sociology, history and  philosophy of religion.
people interpret the  world by using a mental schema and how religion can be thought about….
the main thing about sciences is the approach to drawing  conclusions, and the psychological approach is experimental and in that it is  experimental, it is scientific.
nineteen were finalists and one student had just completed year two of  her course.
not surprisingly, religion  was also seen as an aspect of psychological disorders.
although they had  valuable insights, their research was only ever scratching the surface of  theology and i felt there was a lot more (?) but to do that, you need a better  understanding of what theology is.
the questions asked in each interview can be grouped according to their  potential to elicit students’ (a) reasons for choosing psychology and any  prior familiarity with the subject, (b) perceptions of its relevance to  theology, (c) conceptual challenges of empirical psychology for theology  students, and (d) conceptions of psychology as a science and its usefulness in  the study of religion as a human phenomenon.
participants forty students from the university of oxford (20 students from the faculty  of theology and 20 students from the department of experimental psychology)
i’d love to read some papers on it.
this  problem, however, is not insurmountable.
as for their familiarity with religion as an academic  study, four ppp students were doing the philosophy of religion paper as one of  their philosophy options (two of whom also did religious studies at a-level)  and one studied religion as part of her first degree abroad.6 participants were recruited for the project via their college e-mail  addresses, by receiving a brief message that explained the purpose of the  project and appealed to their good will for taking part before leaving oxford  in return for a small financial reward.
so, the conceptions of psychology as a science do not seem to be vastly different between ppp students and those studying theology but who have completed the core paper in psychology of religion.
similar to the theology group,  one ppp student chose psychology with a view to his future employment  prospects.
by contrast, ppp students regard lectures as an important source of information and learning in psychology, as the following example illustrates.
psychology is  purely scientific.
overall, students’ responses to the relevance question ranged from highly relevant in specific ways (e.g., for pastors) to marginally and generally relevant, no more than any other discipline that educates one’s thinking.
lots of  technical terms to get to grips … it wasn’t so much difficult, it was new, and you… you sort of  start from a different position so you have to kind of think before you start.
from the viewpoint of the perceived relevance of psychology to theology, it is understandable that many students would like to see a greater component of psychology as part of their theology degree and would prefer a more integrated interdisciplinary input from the two disciplines.
first, the current science-religion debate leaves out psychology as a  science of mental life and behaviour.
by virtue of choosing psychology of religion as one of their papers, theology students place themselves in an interdisciplinary context; consequently, their experiences of studying psychology of religion may have wider implications for interdisciplinary issues in higher education.3
and, also, i was kind of expecting more of  psychoanalysis… i was expecting that to play a large part of the course.
such queries are  relevant especially in view of the empirically based content of the oxford  course.
10 freud and jung, the language is familiar.
the biggest thing i found was the research and the studies.
table 2: prior familiarity with psychology as a discipline among theology and ppp students none somenone
can you give me some  examples?—psychology of morality and the ethics of bonhoeffer, it would  be interesting to see what psychology has to say about that.
thirteen of the  students had attended tutorials with me as their tutor (mostly singly), three  students were tutored by a theologian with a background in psychology, three  were due to take the paper the following term, and one student who had intended  to take the paper had subsequently changed her mind.
theology also uses models.
motives for studying psychology and prior familiarity with the subject students’ responses to the question why they chose psychology of  religion indicate that the majority of theology students select the paper out  of a general interest in people or in religious behaviour more specifically  (table 1).
this item is available in pdf format: click here to download author:
accordingly, the question of interest in this comparison is whether  the two groups arrive at a different conception of psychology as a science and  to what extent they think that religion as a human phenomenon can be studied by  scientific psychology.
put simply, psychology could be seen as the most relevant of the sciences to  theology students.
but you need the philosophical component  also.
so, in that respect, there  was always something about it which was more enjoyable than the others, the  compulsory papers.
nine students answered “yes” when asked if religion could be  studied by psychology (example 2), one answered “no” (example 4),  whilst the remaining ten said that psychological methods could be applied to  religion “up to a point” (examples 8, 9, 14, 19, 20).12 2 i think that psychology helps to enlighten the implications of  religious belief.
four ppp students were interested in psychology as a science subject whilst two chose it almost accidentally, having discovered psychology as a degree discipline at the point of applying.
there isn’t a great deal of overlap between psychology of religion and theology papers.
we just don’t know how that stuff works.
as table 2 indicates, 12 theology and 16 ppp students had no prior familiarity with the discipline of psychology (i.e., had not studied it before) whilst eight theology and four ppp students have done some psychology before coming to oxford.
religion is so subjective.
it’s more ideas than facts and evidence.
i guess the fact that it is studying people so you can always relate to something.
contrary to the general trend of teaching the “traditional”  psychology of religion topics in theology departments, namely, psychoanalysis,  pastoral, and social psychology, the data obtained in the current project
klein, j. t., interdisciplinarity: history, theory, and practice (detroit: wayne state university, 1990) petrovich, o, learning and teaching in interdisciplinary contexts (unpublished portfolio for the diploma in learning and teaching in higher  education, university of oxford, 2003) ramsden, p., learning to teach in higher education (routledge, 1992) squires, g., simons, h., parlett, m., & becher, t., interdisciplinarity (london: the group for research and innovation in  higher education, 1975) return to vol.
you can study the experiences that religion invokes and try to reduce that to a physiological level, for example, brainwaves.
only upon being shown the topics included in the psychology of religion syllabus, did ppp students admit that religion had cognitive aspects also.
furthermore, once they have chosen the paper, it is not clear whether the students perceive it as relevant to their study of theology and what its conceptual challenges are.
that’s a difficult question.
amidst clear views regarding the possible relationship between  psychology and theology, there were sporadic instances of a confounded  understanding concerning the role of each discipline in the study of religion.
1 i don’t think it’s where it belongs, but i think
1 through the whole paper, most of the psychologists i read, they seem almost quite… pleasantly baffled about theology.
the combination of biology and philosophy is obviously psychology.
the main benefit of teaching psychology of religion to psychology students would be filling a gap in their understanding of the history of psychology.
also, no practical experience in psychology… how would that help?—perhaps being involved in some research.
it studied a lot more and a lot more widely than i thought it would and, as a christian, i don’t want to believe in something that is all in my head, as it were.
that doesn’t mean it’s not hard, just that it’s not so…(?).
the core paper has been beneficial to me in that it has given  me an insight into how psychology tackles religion.
the last category of response (“up to a point”) is of interest because it demonstrates both the subtleties of understanding among the students (e.g., genuine methodological concerns) and, also, their misconceptions about the nature of the psychological approach.
on the whole, theology students do not find psychology to be conceptually  difficult; rather, they appear to be frustrated by the lack of experience with  research methods.
can you give me some examples?—psychology of morality and the ethics of bonhoeffer, it would be interesting to see what psychology has to say about that.
i think that anyone who goes into the church should do psychology of religion paper.
these questions were put to the 16 theology students who had completed the  course.
oh, it’s a very interesting contrast to the rest.
i felt i made a lot of progress  through my reading… and, in some ways, it was also quite easy because i  chose to do it; it was my option out of interest.
but i have a gap on the  research side.
easy aspects of studying psychology
it gives you lots of statistics and  figures and no meaningful interpretation.
1 i found that the reading was more focused and condensed than in theology… like once having to read a 4-page article!
there are many people who think that theology is quite different and should not be mixed with the social sciences.
in addition, five students said that psychology was a good choice because its approach to religion was different from that found in their theological papers and as such brought “a breath of fresh air” to their overall study.
data pertaining to each  section of the project will be reported separately for theology and ppp  students, followed by direct comparisons where relevant.
psychology is  about human behaviour and religious belief is a form of behaviour, so
i think with theology you quickly come to the conclusion that you  can’t reach god through reason, so it has to be faith, and that’s  quite interesting from a psychological point of view.
15 ppp caught my attention because i thought it was really a great combination.
16 trying to think from the viewpoint of a scientist … data,  evidence … very different from the other papers …
given the popularity of psychology as such, on the one hand, and the potential relevance of scientific psychology to the science-religion debate, on the other, it is both desirable and likely that further links should be forged between psychology and theology at degree level.
i think it’s an area that needs to be expanded.
similar to the theology group, one ppp student chose psychology with a view to his future employment prospects.
i am grateful to dr simon smith for his assistance in the application process and to the forty students who agreed to participate in the project.
introduction psychology is a highly relevant discipline to theological and religious  studies yet it is only given a minor role in most academic programmes and often  it is not included at all.
in other psychology courses… in other universities, they focus on the less experimental aspects such as freud or jung or folk theories.
you see that there is a connection with philosophy of religion
you are just not used to things like methods and evidence and that kind of stuff.
triggers, enabled me to understand the possible influence of music on the  brain…
well … scientific to me in terms of the methods that are undertaken; otherwise you wouldn’t present its results in a table or give you a statistic that psychology would.
it seems as plausible to think that it would be possible to approach it  empirically, but i wonder whether we are in a position to do so yet, given that  we have absolutely no idea about how reasoning or complex representations,  beliefs, are represented in the brain.
integration does not only mean establishing the links between two disciplines but also understanding what the unbridgeable differences are (gasper, 2001).
what theology students find easy about studying psychology are the  relatively compact readings (journal articles), a focused approach, its  familiar subject matter (people), freud and jung literature and, for two  students, its methodological clarity.
people try to do experiments to see if… experiments like  buddhist monks going into meditation if their brain waves change.
but it’s not made for you.
it’s the  same in philosophy: you can reason up to a point and eventually…
but in terms of workload, it’s roughly the same.
(but) limitations are that you are always… you always rely on people’s testimony.
all twenty students agreed at some point in the interview that  religion could and should be studied by psychology, however, the majority of  them thought that psychology of religion was a branch of social psychology and  that only the social aspects of religious behaviour and experience could be  studied by psychological methods (examples 1, 7).
in order to interpret theology2 students’ views of psychology correctly, they will be compared directly with a group of ppp4 students who likewise study on an interdisciplinary degree programme that includes philosophy.
the comparison between theology and ppp students is appropriate for the following reasons.
i guess the fact that it is studying people so you can always relate to  something.
the core paper has been beneficial to me in that it has given me an insight into how psychology tackles religion.
conceptually, i  think, it was a bit easier than something like buddhism or the nature of  religion, which were a couple of papers i did recently.
olivera petrovich journal title: discourse issn: issn-l: volume: 3 number: 2 start page: 92 end page: 113 return to vol.
so it took a bit of  getting used to.
in order to study certain papers i have to learn greek or hebrew or latin, if i want to do patristics.
these questions were put to the 16 theology students who had completed the course.
some theology 12 8 ppp 16 4 for the majority of students in both groups, freud and jung were the most  representative names of the discipline before studying psychology at degree  level.
1 i found that the reading was more focused and condensed than in  theology… like once having to read a 4-page article!
put differently, the  comparison with ppp students shows that misconceptions about religion as a  psychological variable are not limited to humanities students.
nine students answered “yes” when asked if religion could be studied by psychology (example 2), one answered “no” (example 4), whilst the remaining ten said that psychological methods could be applied to religion “up to a point” (examples 8, 9, 14, 19, 20).12 2 i think that psychology helps to enlighten the implications of religious belief.
in short, the current project was designed to examine the impact of teaching a predominantly science-based psychological content to humanities students, most of whom have no prior familiarity either with psychology or with scientific approaches as part of their degree studies.
the majority (17) saw the two disciplines as directly related and  dealing with common questions and concerns albeit in a different way.
in summary, although psychology is perceived as a very different paper from their theological papers, most students do not find it conceptually difficult and would prefer to study it in greater depth as part of their theology degree.
in  tutorials, students have a greater choice of topics which to research for their  weekly essays on a specific question and subsequently discuss its content and  style of argument.
the interviews were taped as  well as recorded by pen and were subsequently fully transcribed.
listed below are some of the typical examples of each group’s reasons for choosing psychology (theology examples: 6, 14; ppp examples: 15, 18).8 6 i guess it was just for a bit of variety, really, and because quite a lot of papers in theology are historical and biblical studies which i didn’t find that interesting… as an option paper i wanted something that was a bit more thoughtful and, perhaps, related to questions that i have myself.
in fact, now i am surprised that it did take up such a large part of the course (laughs).
12 moral development without religion has been studied, so why not with religion… religion is a major part of great many people’s lives.
in contrast to the views endorsing direct and meaningful links between  psychology and theology, two students perceive them as independent and in no  need of a closer dialogue, whilst one stated that psychology was fundamentally  opposed to religion: 9 i always put psychology more with sceptics … the people  who want to prove something is not true or show that prayer isn’t really  talking to god.
what is paradoxical about ppp students’ conception of scientific  psychology is that it appears to be fundamentally unaware of the ongoing  science-religion debate, where different sciences grapple to understand a  number of, essentially psychological, questions (e.g., origin and the nature of  religious mental states).
the main thing about sciences is the approach to drawing conclusions, and the psychological approach is experimental and in that it is experimental, it is scientific.
but you have to… 8 up to a point… there are certain things that, i think, science  can’t ever prove or show, and are just matters of faith.
secondly, the pattern of prior familiarity with  religion as a discipline among the students within each of the two groups is  almost a reverse of that for science.
religion as a topic for scientific psychology theology students.
in contrast to the views endorsing direct and meaningful links between psychology and theology, two students perceive them as independent and in no need of a closer dialogue, whilst one stated that psychology was fundamentally opposed to religion: 9 i always put psychology more with sceptics … the people who want to prove something is not true or show that prayer isn’t really talking to god.
what is paradoxical about ppp students’ conception of scientific psychology is that it appears to be fundamentally unaware of the ongoing science-religion debate, where different sciences grapple to understand a number of, essentially psychological, questions (e.g., origin and the nature of religious mental states).
also, no practical experience in psychology… how would that  help?—perhaps being involved in some research.
they attend tutorials either singly or in pairs and are free  to schedule them at any point between their prelims and finals.
people interpret the world by using a mental schema and how religion can be thought about….
it does seem that  both psychology and theology are approaching the same thing but from different  angles, and it’s difficult to think of them as two separate entities but  it’s also difficult to give specific examples of how they can interact.
(but)  limitations are that you are always… you always rely on people’s  testimony.
so, i guess, the psychology of religion was… sort of answered questions about religion and its place in other people’s lives.
whether or not religion can be studied by scientific methods, depends not only on the students’ conceptions of psychology as a science but also on their implicit definitions of religion.
at the time of interviewing, nine students  were studying for the joint final honours school (fhs) in philosophy &  theology and 11 single fhs in theology.
but they were still of the view that philosophy was the best framework within which to study mental representations (thoughts), including religious, whereas psychology was concerned with biological bases of behaviour.
not surprisingly, religion was also seen as an aspect of psychological disorders.
it’s not like reading a book  … but it’s not abstract, it’s very certain.
furthermore, even the teaching of general introductory psychology, rather than  psychology of religion, could be useful to theology students as it might  stimulate their own insights and creative links between the two disciplines.
seventeen students were studying psychology with philosophy and three with physiology..5
finally, theology students have all chosen psychology of religion as one of their optional papers whereas none of the ppp students has studied psychology of religion either formally or informally.
another significant change in the understanding of psychology among the majority of students is the perception of it as distinct from psychoanalysis (examples 10, 12).
finally, in order to determine whether their views of psychology have changed  as a result of the course, i.e., whether and how the challenges were overcome,  the students were asked what they thought of psychology now, after the course.
3 no. 2 index page created on: january 14th 2010 updated on: august 19th 2010 subject centre for philosophical and religious studies - department of  theology and religious studies - university of leeds - ls2 9jt
consequently,  opportunities should be provided for psychology students to acquire a basic  understanding of religion as a human phenomenon in order to broaden their  research interests.
and perhaps the theological school isn’t as rigorous in collecting that data … if it does it at all.
although theology students appear to have a more correct understanding than  their ppp counterparts regarding the contribution that psychology can make to  the study of religion, both groups of students often confound religion as a  psychological topic with religion as a theological topic.
perhaps it was just my limited reading, but i often felt that theological terms were being taken for granted, but on second examination the terms were being taken in out-dated ways.
put differently, the comparison with ppp students shows that misconceptions about religion as a psychological variable are not limited to humanities students.
theology  also has explanations but psychology pays no attention.
they attend tutorials either singly or in pairs and are free to schedule them at any point between their prelims and finals.
so, i guess, the psychology of religion was… sort of  answered questions about religion and its place in other people’s lives.
participated in the project.
data reported in this section pertain to theology students
psychology lectures are essentially compulsory … absolutely necessary, but philosophy not at all.
in other psychology courses… in other universities, they  focus on the less experimental aspects such as freud or jung or folk theories.
i think it’s totally science.
secondly, the science-religion debate would be broadened by  increasing students’ awareness of psychology as a science of mental life.
the question whether religion can be studied by scientific psychology yielded extremely interesting, and often extensive, responses among ppp students.
for example, if there is a definite  trend for everyone to personify sacred things, then you need the psychological  tests, the data, which just the scientific aspects of psychology can provide.
big gain for me is to see how people think using models, as in cognitive psychology.
it would be fascinating to understand the psychology of it.
the choice of topics within psychology made it even easier.
15 i’ve never done psychology … having to learn all the language … i don’t know.
conceptual challenges of psychology for theology students three questions tapped the challenges of studying psychology as part of a  theology curriculum.
at first, a daunting range … when i look at my first  essay.
as pointed out earlier, the majority of both theology and ppp students anticipate studying freud and psychoanalysis, as part of their course and, theology students in particular, are little prepared what to expect in the paper.
religion suffers because people don’t give it enough thought.
15 i’ve never done psychology … having to learn all the  language … i don’t know.
so… we wouldn’t be able to form interesting models, i  wouldn’t have thought.
1 i don’t think it’s where it belongs, but i think it’s where it has to be at present, given the nature of philosophy & theology.
relevance of psychology to theology data reported in this section pertain to theology students
more specifically,  questionnaires may yield ambiguous responses, which, unless followed up with  further questions, would have to be eliminated from data analysis.
that never happens  in theology, never less than 20-30 pages.
the two groups are also similar with regard to their prior familiarity with psychology as a discipline.
it’s the same in philosophy: you can reason up to a point and eventually… i think it’s kant, isn’t it, who made a difference between faith and reason; there is a gulf between them and you have to choose what to go for.
it’s an awful excuse, but it’s quite far away.
i think that anyone who goes into the  church should do psychology of religion paper.
although the ppp students’ understanding of psychology as capable of studying religious thought is disappointingly limited, a number of them readily saw that psychological methods were entirely appropriate in the study of religion as an aspect of human thought (examples 3, 12, 19).
yeah, it is … empirical data.
it seems as plausible to think that it would be possible to approach it empirically, but i wonder whether we are in a position to do so yet, given that we have absolutely no idea about how reasoning or complex representations, beliefs, are represented in the brain.
that was mainly my fault.
i  think those are the hallmarks of a science.
by contrast, ppp students regard lectures as an important source of  information and learning in psychology, as the following example illustrates.
you see that there is a  connection with philosophy of religion
but the best thing about psychology is the short chunk given to read, not a whole book like in theology.
in order to study certain papers i have to  learn greek or hebrew or latin, if i want to do patristics.
and i’d say  that, especially in contrast with philosophy and theology, partly because it  has so much interest in the situations in the world… it takes its  evidence from how people behave and what they do… and there is a lot of  discussion about proper methodology and whether the criteria for reaching a  conclusion are valid.
because i wanted a change from the biblical papers and, also, i wanted a more practical paper.
as table 2 indicates, 12 theology and 16 ppp  students had no prior familiarity with the discipline of psychology (i.e., had  not studied it before) whilst eight theology and four ppp students have done  some psychology before coming to oxford.
in the case of ppp students,  however, the more likely explanation of their misconceptions is the lack of any  educational input about religion.
you are just not used to things like methods and evidence and that kind of  stuff.
scientific psychology and religion this part of the project was designed to investigate students’
the main benefit of teaching psychology of religion to psychology students  would be filling a gap in their understanding of the history of psychology.
it is of interest to mention that ppp students were equally prone to hold confounded notions about the roles of psychology and theology, which became obvious at different points during the interviews.
it’s a really good way of getting a  broad perspective in a short time.
as one of their papers, theology students place  themselves in an interdisciplinary context; consequently, their experiences of  studying psychology of religion may have wider implications for  interdisciplinary issues in higher education.3
table 1: motives  for choosing to study psychology among theology and ppp students
so it took a bit of getting used to.
you might find clues
social psychology is very reductionist.
it all depends how honest the individual can be.
the questions asked in each interview can be grouped according to their potential to elicit students’ (a) reasons for choosing psychology and any prior familiarity with the subject, (b) perceptions of its relevance to theology, (c) conceptual challenges of empirical psychology for theology students, and (d) conceptions of psychology as a science and its usefulness in the study of religion as a human phenomenon.
i prefer to  hear about people’s own work … no.
that’s why they are related.
theology also has explanations but psychology pays no attention.
this includes a-level courses, a major in psychology completed abroad or, simply, having read some mainstream psychological texts.
i don’t think (that) anything is beyond the reach of being studied scientifically, absolutely, but some things are very difficult to get at, at the moment, but will eventually… like very abstract things are quite hard to analyse.
i always see psychologists interfering were  they really shouldn’t be.
and it reminds you that there  is a different, more scientific way of looking at things than one does in  philosophy and theology.
religiously, it still means a  lot to that person.
table 1: motives for choosing to study psychology among theology and ppp students interest different science career chance otherinterest different science career chance
because there were some conclusions that were drawn and some discussions, which, i didn’t feel, were quite subtle.
psychology is about human behaviour and religious belief is a form of behaviour, so that’s why they are related.
john millbank (author of theology and social theory) is against looking at theology from other disciplines.
all the participants received a small fee for taking part in the project, which was paid from a grant awarded to me by the ltsn subject centre for philosophical and religious studies subject (prs-ltsn) mini-project fund.
the main interest of  such a comparison is that ppp students do not have the option of studying  psychology of religion, however, based on their choices of philosophy of  religion as a paper, a number of them seem to be interested in religion as a  subject of study.
i don’t  think that’s faith.
because in philosophy and theology you get a bit of armchair psychology… that’s as far as it goes, whereas psychology is much more concerned about how people actually (?) and also the consequences of the changes on them.
each interview  lasted approximately 60 minutes, as planned, and included some additional  questions to those reported here.
so, in that respect, there was always something about it which was more enjoyable than the others, the compulsory papers.
the rationale of the course is to approach religion as a psychological rather than just cultural and social phenomenon, by providing an overview of the key religious topics (see below) in light of modern psychological methods and theories.
kant, isn’t it, who made a difference between faith and  reason; there is a gulf between them and you have to choose what to go for.
so you can see some things that may have led them to think of behaviour in a  certain way but you just can’t know what’s inside a person’s  head.
most of the students also agree that certain areas of psychology are at present more scientific than others but progress continues to be made and all areas of psychology should eventually become fully scientific (example 12).
there are two reasons why mainly scientific psychology rather than just psychoanalysis and pastoral psychology should be taught in introductory courses for theology students.
there are many people who think that theology  is quite different and should not be mixed with the social sciences.
i thought it would be less  so… when you are combining the two topics, psychology and theology, so  that surprised me.
because of the relatively small size of the samples, interview data were analysed mainly qualitatively according to the category of response, restricting numerical analysis to only a few summaries in terms of frequencies or percentages and presented in tables (see below).
there are two reasons why mainly scientific psychology rather than just  psychoanalysis and pastoral psychology should be taught in introductory courses  for theology students.
first, whilst the two groups have a similar level of prior familiarity  with psychology as a discipline, they differ markedly with regard to their  prior background in science in general.
psychology is purely scientific.
this problem, however, is not insurmountable.
it’s a different approach because it’s using experiments, whereas theology isn’t.
cognitive psychology is also  easy; it’s about using models.
several were manifestly aware of the possible  links between the brain and certain religious experiences (example 17),  including a student who suggested that it would be interesting for psychology  to study the “god-spots” in the brain.
religiously, it still means a lot to that person.
but i have a gap on the research side.
the information about  students’ attendance at the core lectures in psychology of religion will  become relevant when we look at the challenges that they encounter in studying  psychology.
as we shall see from the  experiences conveyed by the students, the question of integration across  different disciplines is highly pertinent from the viewpoint of both teachers  and students who are engaged in interdisciplinary education (e.g., gasper,  2001; klein, 1990; squires et al., 1975).
exploratory rather than systematic questions about the latter revealed that many students adopt a definition of religion that reflects the diversity of views in the literature.
first, psychoanalysis, pastoral and health psychology  generally are applied areas and, to be useful, they require a prior grasp of  psychological research method and theory in order to appreciate realistically  their findings.
it’s a really good way of getting a broad perspective in a short time.
first, psychoanalysis, pastoral and health psychology generally are applied areas and, to be useful, they require a prior grasp of psychological research method and theory in order to appreciate realistically their findings.
where do you think it belongs?—honestly, i think it belongs as a compulsory paper and it should be in there as well as the others.
what theology students find easy about studying psychology are the relatively compact readings (journal articles), a focused approach, its familiar subject matter (people), freud and jung literature and, for two students, its methodological clarity.
philosophy can’t answer religious  questions.
although the material presented so far sufficiently indicates that theology students do perceive psychology as a science, the next stage of the report looks at this question more specifically by comparing directly the views of theology and ppp students.
of the 19 respondents, all have agreed that the oxford course is either very scientific or quite scientific but that in many other universities psychology can be rather different because it would often include freud and psychoanalysis (examples 1, 5, 20).
it is very  methodological, it is very data oriented… i feel that my education  beforehand was like a philosophical approach, there was much more theory, not  so much about scientific experiments.
psychology ought to make a big difference to theology but the present structures don’t allow it.
i think those are the hallmarks of a science.
the choice of topics within psychology  made it even easier.
i suppose, if you take a science to be an approach, or a kind of methodological way of looking at things, may be to that extent ….
perhaps it  was just my limited reading, but i often felt that theological terms were being  taken for granted, but on second examination the terms were being taken in  out-dated ways.
it does seem that both psychology and theology are approaching the same thing but from different angles, and it’s difficult to think of them as two separate entities but it’s also difficult to give specific examples of how they can interact.
that always seems to be if you watch something on tv or read about psychologists … it’s always a philosopher or a theologian (who) said that prayer is really talking to god but a psychologist came along and said, no, it’s not that.
it depends on who teaches psychology...
that doesn’t mean it’s not hard, just that it’s not  so…(?).
in order to interpret theology2 students’ views of psychology correctly, they will be compared directly  with a group of ppp4 students who likewise study on an interdisciplinary degree  programme that includes philosophy.
such responses undoubtedly reflect confusion between psychological and  theological aspects of religion.
the combination of biology and philosophy  is obviously psychology.
whenever appropriate, theology and ppp students’ responses will be compared directly.
difficult aspects of studying psychology not surprisingly, the most common difficulties for theology students  consisted of the understanding of tables, statistics, technical terms, and the  lack of background knowledge of science in general.
it is given to you by god rather than by someone telling you to believe.
i don’t think that’s faith.
next, and as an indirect way of approaching the same issue, they were also asked what, if anything, was easy in psychology.
i don’t think  that faith can.
to illustrate, theology students do not typically take science subjects at a-level (although a few in the current sample have done), whereas ppp students typically take at least two, but usually more, sciences.
i don’t think that faith can.
most of the students also agree  that certain areas of psychology are at present more scientific than others but  progress continues to be made and all areas of psychology should eventually  become fully scientific (example 12).
perceptions of psychology after studying it
of the 19 respondents11, eight seem to view psychology as sufficiently scientific on account of its methodological rigour (examples 1, 7, 11, 12) whilst the remaining 11 are aware of its constraints as a science (example 6).
19 definitely… why people believe, and how people can believe so much to devote their whole lives to religion.
consequently, opportunities should be provided for psychology students to acquire a basic understanding of religion as a human phenomenon in order to broaden their research interests.
the approach here in oxford is very scientific.
when psychology is a component of the theology curriculum, its content is typically psychoanalysis and pastoral psychology, both of which are associated with mental health and emotional problems in adult life.
12 i was surprised at how empirical it was.
but i think that’s…a lot of christians probably accept that you cannot reach that conclusion through reason and scientifically
the oxford course in the psychology of religion, offered to theology (single honours) and philosophy and theology (joint honours) students, is distinct in that its content is broader, addressing religious development across life span and stressing the importance of empirical research and evidence in the study of human behaviour.
the investigation reported here deals with a topic that involves a relatively small group of theology students (20); nevertheless, its findings are of interest to all degree programmes involving theology or religious studies that include some teaching of psychology.
given the popularity of psychology as such, on the one hand,  and the potential relevance of scientific psychology to the science-religion  debate, on the other, it is both desirable and likely that further links should  be forged between psychology and theology at degree level.
i think that that is extremely relevant.
2 i avoided them (tables); i read only the theory.
people try to do experiments to see if… experiments like buddhist monks going into meditation if their brain waves change.
3 no. 2 index page psychology is a highly relevant discipline to theological and religious studies yet it is only given a minor role in most academic programmes and often it is not included at all.
psychology of religion is a popular option for theology students1
method data pertaining to each issue above were obtained by interviewing each  participant.
15 ppp caught my attention because i thought it was really a great  combination.
the main practical problem in teaching mainstream psychology to theology  students would be the lack of psychology staff with sufficient interests in  theology so as to make relevant links between the two disciplines.
among the misconceptions is the notion that psychology may be in a position to say something about god; that personal aspects of religion are beyond the reach of psychology; and that psychology can tackle only the historical and sociological aspects of religion.
the current project was supported by a grant from the prs-ltsn mini-project fund.
the investigation reported here deals with a topic that involves a  relatively small group of theology students (20); nevertheless, its findings  are of interest to all degree programmes involving theology or religious  studies that include some teaching of psychology.
whenever appropriate, theology and  ppp students’ responses will be compared directly.
it has a solid methodological background, not freud  and jung… it is disproving or supporting various theories with  experimental evidence… also, the biological aspects, and those are  scientific.
for instance, is it a genuine interest  in human religious nature, a pleasant diversion from their main discipline, or  a strategic choice in order to broaden their educational skills and thereby  secure better employability prospects?
the simplest explanation of any such misconceptions among the theology  students is their non-attendance at the introductory lectures where  methodological points are repeatedly addressed and the nature of empirical  psychology highlighted as distinct from the non-empirical disciplines studying  religion.
bibliography biggs, j., teaching for quality learning at university (milton  keynes: open university press, 1999) gasper, d., interdisciplinarity: building bridges and nurturing a  complex ecology of ideas(the hague, netherlands: institute of social  studies, working paper series, no. 331, 2001)
the majority of students were in their early 20s, with the  exception of two mature students.
but it is not clear why, that is, what exactly motivates the students to select a paper that is outside their main discipline.
because even if you do show that something happens to people when they pray or could be conditioned by society or something, it still means … .
other surprisingly, only four ppp students said that they had a specific interest in psychology; nine stated that their main interest was actually philosophy (other) but, because there was no possibility of studying single honours philosophy at oxford, they chose psychology as a good combination with philosophy.
the majority of students were in their early 20s, with the exception of two mature students.
all the participants received a small fee for  taking part in the project, which was paid from a grant awarded to me by the  ltsn subject centre for philosophical and religious studies subject (prs-ltsn)
16 trying to think from the viewpoint of a scientist … data, evidence … very different from the other papers … lots of technical terms to get to grips … it wasn’t so much difficult, it was new, and you… you sort of start from a different position so you have to kind of think before you start.
psychology as a science theology students.
the more human aspects of it can, but religion is also of a very  particular type, and as such, science cannot throw much light on it.
nine students had attended at least several lectures  one year after they had completed the tutorials, whilst six students did not  attend any lectures but relied on their tutorials only.
overall, students’ responses to the relevance question ranged from  highly relevant in specific ways (e.g., for pastors) to marginally and  generally relevant, no more than any other discipline that educates one’s
only.9 participants were asked for their views on (a) how the two disciplines fitted together, and (b) whether psychology was relevant to their study of theology.
but they were still of the view that  philosophy was the best framework within which to study mental representations  (thoughts), including religious, whereas psychology was concerned with  biological bases of behaviour.
first, theology students were asked to say what they found  to be difficult in psychology.
exploratory rather  than systematic questions about the latter revealed that many students adopt a  definition of religion that reflects the diversity of views in the literature.
conceptions of psychology as a science, on the one hand, and the applicability  of psychological research methods to the study of religion, on the other.
i always put my non-lecture commitments first because … generally … i am happy in the library reading.
in this regard, teaching of scientific  psychology to theology students makes a greater interdisciplinary contribution  to their education than the more literary psychological approaches.
interest different science career chance other theology 12 5 2 1 - - ppp 4 - 4 1 2 9 surprisingly, only four ppp students said that they had a specific interest  in psychology; nine stated that their main interest was actually philosophy  (other) but, because there was no possibility of studying single honours  philosophy at oxford, they chose psychology as a good combination with  philosophy.
reading articles from psychological journals was frequently mentioned as being comparatively difficult albeit, in many cases, an enjoyable challenge, as the example below suggests.
and, also, i was kind of expecting more of psychoanalysis… i was expecting that to play a large part of the course.
all twenty students agreed at some point in the interview that religion could and should be studied by psychology, however, the majority of them thought that psychology of religion was a branch of social psychology and that only the social aspects of religious behaviour and experience could be studied by psychological methods (examples 1, 7).
data pertaining to each issue above were obtained by interviewing each participant.
as an additional way of finding out about the challenging aspects of psychology for theology students, they were asked what they thought of the subject after the course as opposed to before starting it.
but it will change in the future, by and by.
i think religion can, because religion is man-made.
furthermore, even the teaching of general introductory psychology, rather than psychology of religion, could be useful to theology students as it might stimulate their own insights and creative links between the two disciplines.
and perhaps the theological school isn’t as rigorous in collecting that  data … if it does it at all.
it studied a lot more and a  lot more widely than i thought it would and, as a christian, i don’t want  to believe in something that is all in my head, as it were.
it gives you lots of statistics and figures and no meaningful interpretation.
in summary, although psychology is perceived as a very different paper from  their theological papers, most students do not find it conceptually difficult  and would prefer to study it in greater depth as part of their theology degree.
although the ppp students’ understanding of psychology as capable of  studying religious thought is disappointingly limited, a number of them readily  saw that psychological methods were entirely appropriate in the study of  religion as an aspect of human thought (examples 3, 12, 19).
in this university, very, in the sense that it is  experimentally orientated.
i found that  difficult.
as we shall see from the experiences conveyed by the students, the question of integration across different disciplines is highly pertinent from the viewpoint of both teachers and students who are engaged in interdisciplinary education (e.g., gasper, 2001; klein, 1990; squires et al., 1975).
would this not increase the amount of  technical detail that theology students would have to learn?—but  it’s the same in theology.
in order to study things scientifically, we must observe them.
in connection with each topic, students receive guidance for further reading that includes modern empirical studies of different aspects of religious behaviour and experience, in addition to some of the classical titles from the history of psychology (james, freud, jung).
i think with theology you quickly come to the conclusion that you can’t reach god through reason, so it has to be faith, and that’s quite interesting from a psychological point of view.
finally, in order to determine whether their views of psychology have changed as a result of the course, i.e., whether and how the challenges were overcome, the students were asked what they thought of psychology now, after the course.
1 there are aspects of religion which can be studied  scientifically… cultural aspects, or seeing how religion develops within  the individual but there is something that cannot be studied empirically, that  is beyond the rational domain.
second, investigating students’ understanding of how  modern psychology works may provide hints for helping students interpret and  apply research findings obtained by psychological methods in a more informed  and critical manner to their work in theology.
of the 19 respondents11, eight seem to view psychology  as sufficiently scientific on account of its methodological rigour (examples 1,  7, 11, 12) whilst the remaining 11 are aware of its constraints as a science  (example 6).
this includes a-level courses, a major  in psychology completed abroad or, simply, having read some mainstream  psychological texts.
it is of interest to mention that ppp students were equally prone to hold  confounded notions about the roles of psychology and theology, which became  obvious at different points during the interviews.
is it a disappointment that it didn’t?—not really…
coming from a charismatic background and to find, for example, that worship services are one of (?) triggers, enabled me to understand the possible influence of music on the brain… i mean to understand the effect of religious stimuli; it gave me a better ground to ask whether what i experience was the effect of god or just me.
of the 20 ppp students, 12 were male and eight female, with a similar age distribution to that of their theology counterparts, including one mature student.
i think they are both necessary.
the simplest explanation of any such misconceptions among the theology students is their non-attendance at the introductory lectures where methodological points are repeatedly addressed and the nature of empirical psychology highlighted as distinct from the non-empirical disciplines studying religion.
secondly, the pattern of prior familiarity with religion as a discipline among the students within each of the two groups is almost a reverse of that for science.
looks at this question more specifically by comparing directly the views of  theology and ppp students.
you don’t really talk much about that in your normal theological papers.
as an additional way of finding out about the challenging aspects of  psychology for theology students, they were asked what they thought of the  subject after the course as opposed to before starting it.
the findings of this investigation are equally relevant to psychology degree programmes, although those implications will be considered in a separate report.
second, investigating students’ understanding of how modern psychology works may provide hints for helping students interpret and apply research findings obtained by psychological methods in a more informed and critical manner to their work in theology.
lots of time they cover the stuff that you can read about.
because even if you do  show that something happens to people when they pray or could be conditioned by  society or something, it still means … .
i think that that is extremely  relevant.
instead, the most commonly involved sciences are physical and biological, including neuroscience and neuro-physiology.
and i think it is brilliant for  every theology student because it takes a very different look at what we are  studying.
students’  changing conceptions of a subject indicate whether or not learning and  understanding has taken place (e.g., biggs, 1999;
i felt i made a lot of progress through my reading… and, in some ways, it was also quite easy because i chose to do it; it was my option out of interest.
forty students from the university of oxford (20 students from the faculty of theology and 20 students from the department of experimental psychology) participated in the project.
the question whether religion can be studied by scientific  psychology yielded extremely interesting, and often extensive, responses among  ppp students.
the interviews were conducted in a semi-structured format, that is, the same set of pre-planned questions was asked of all the participants albeit in a somewhat different sequence, deliberately allowing for flexibility and spontaneous flow in response to each question.
it has a solid methodological background, not freud and jung… it is disproving or supporting various theories with experimental evidence… also, the biological aspects, and those are scientific.
so, the conceptions of psychology as a science do not seem to be vastly  different between ppp students and those studying theology but who have  completed the core paper in psychology of religion.
they kind of correlate with something that is beyond  studying… 19 certain aspects of it can… the more historical or sociological,  but if you are talking about god, by definition it’s impossible.
one of the main course aims appears to have been achieved, namely, all the interviewed students did become aware of the empirical character of psychology and its different way of thinking about certain familiar phenomena (examples 1, 4, 16).
the two questions elicited consistent responses per student and can be reported jointly.
i think faith is a belief in something that even if all the doctrines are taken away, and there is no bible and no place to worship, there would still be a belief that there is something higher than you....
nine students had attended at least several lectures one year after they had completed the tutorials, whilst six students did not attend any lectures but relied on their tutorials only.
for the majority of students in both groups, freud and jung were the most representative names of the discipline before studying psychology at degree level.
the interviews were conducted in a semi-structured format, that is, the  same set of pre-planned questions was asked of all the participants albeit in a  somewhat different sequence, deliberately allowing for flexibility and  spontaneous flow in response to each question.
i think religion does fall apart under science and reason
so,  when i enjoy something, it’s easy.
interestingly, ppp students seem to differ in their judgement whether psychology can ever become a hard science, even when it uses well-designed research methods (example 19).
seventeen students were studying psychology with philosophy and  three with physiology..5
3 no … to be honest, i don’t find that they are helpful.
in other words, they transfer their attitude to lectures in the arts subjects to psychology, without realising that accessing information in psychology presupposes some familiarity with its research methods.
for example, psychological issues (e.g., differentiating religious belief and  emotion) are sometimes seen as a subject of theological and philosophical  enquiry rather than of empirical research, as the following two examples show.
as for their familiarity with religion as an academic study, four ppp students were doing the philosophy of religion paper as one of their philosophy options (two of whom also did religious studies at a-level) and one studied religion as part of her first degree abroad.6 participants were recruited for the project via their college e-mail addresses, by receiving a brief message that explained the purpose of the project and appealed to their good will for taking part before leaving oxford in return for a small financial reward.
it is a common trend among theology students not to attend lectures on the grounds that they can cover the syllabus by reading.
of the 20 ppp students, 12 were male and eight female, with a similar age  distribution to that of their theology counterparts, including one mature  student.
5 we should do some tiny research… (there is) not enough feel that  it is a science, just reading about it.
and, also, religion is a very personal thing and as such stands outside science.
would this not increase the amount of technical detail that theology students would have to learn?—but it’s the same in theology.
how close they are to philosophy.
i found that difficult.
interestingly, ppp students seem to  differ in their judgement whether psychology can ever become a hard science,  even when it uses well-designed research methods (example 19).
furthermore, once they have chosen the  paper, it is not clear whether the students perceive it as relevant to their  study of theology and what its conceptual challenges are.
not  just asking what these statistics tell us but can we trust these statistics.
to illustrate, theology students do not  typically take science subjects at a-level (although a few in the current  sample have done), whereas ppp students typically take at least two, but  usually more, sciences.
3 no … to be honest, i don’t find that they are  helpful.
in this university, very, in the sense that it is experimentally orientated.
psychology lectures are essentially compulsory … absolutely  necessary, but philosophy not at all.
and i think it is brilliant for every theology student because it takes a very different look at what we are studying.
but in terms of  workload, it’s roughly the same.
and the studies… studies are a big thing.
i am grateful to dr simon smith for his assistance in the application  process and to the forty students who agreed to participate in the project.
i think it can be studied scientifically, objectively, in that you can make observations… you can look at patterns of behaviour, look at history, but i think it is very difficult to quantify people’s behaviour, and i think that’s the problem with psychology and sociology as well and why they think what they think.
i’ve always been interested in science, especially biology, but  also very interested in philosophy.
where do you think it belongs?—honestly, i think it belongs as  a compulsory paper and it should be in there as well as the others.
among the theology group, 10 students were male and 10 female.
another significant change in the understanding of psychology among the  majority of students is the perception of it as distinct from psychoanalysis  (examples 10, 12).
that never happens in theology, never less than 20-30 pages.
there should be a course called ppt (psychology, philosophy &  theology).
but when we are talking about god, god is up there and we are down here, and there is no reason that, because we talk to him today and he talks to us or answers us, why that will happen tomorrow.
nineteen were finalists and one student had just completed year two of her course.
in other words,  they transfer their attitude to lectures in the arts subjects to psychology,  without realising that accessing information in psychology presupposes some  familiarity with its research methods.
like why people  are religious and that applies to the question why people believe in different  religions.
i find it absolutely essential, almost practical, and… a practical and scientific balance almost to the rest of my studies.
there is more scope for overlap.
in other words, james had a  clear vision of psychology of religion as a branch of natural science and a  methodologically demanding subject.
the lectures cover topics such  as origin of religious concepts in human development, different aspects of  religious experience (e.g., prayer, conversion), moral development, and  religious cognition across life span as well as psychology of religion applied  to health and education.
cognitive psychology is also easy; it’s about using models.
10 i would avoid pa, which is too laden with assumptions… freud and jung are kind of theologies in their own right.
if we take into account that many theology students also study  philosophy as part of their degree, the difference between the two groups  regarding their motives for studying psychology is even smaller.
i got the feeling  that perhaps a module on theology for the psychologists would be helpful in  their studies.
with certain aspects of faith, like prayer, i  almost think it’s not an issue that can be tested.
we just don’t know how that stuff  works.
but you just can’t know what’s inside a person’s head.
the subject matter is not alien, basically.
although a questionnaire would have been a more economical  procedure to use, the limitations of questionnaire as a method were judged to  be a major constraint on the aims of the project.
one of the  main course aims appears to have been achieved, namely, all the interviewed  students did become aware of the empirical character of psychology and its  different way of thinking about certain familiar phenomena (examples 1, 4, 16).
as pointed out earlier, the majority of both theology and  ppp students anticipate studying freud and psychoanalysis, as part of their  course and, theology students in particular, are little prepared what to expect  in the paper.
students’ understanding of psychology as a science of human religious experience in the broadest sense is a question of interest for at least two reasons.
in short, the aim of the course is to enable students to differentiate between psychology and the other disciplines of religious studies notably anthropology, sociology, history and philosophy of religion.
three of those 11 had attended seminars in philosophical psychology and concluded that psychology was still closer to philosophy than to science (example 5).
such responses undoubtedly reflect confusion between psychological and theological aspects of religion.
of the 19 respondents, all have agreed that the oxford course  is either very scientific or quite scientific but that in many other  universities psychology can be rather different because it would often include  freud and psychoanalysis (examples 1, 5, 20).
by virtue of choosing
because i wanted a change from the biblical papers and, also, i wanted a  more practical paper.
integration does not only mean establishing the links  between two disciplines but also understanding what the unbridgeable  differences are (gasper, 2001).
it could be argued that, as far as their understanding of religion goes, ppp students’ conception of psychology is closer to that of wundt, who defined of psychology as a study of sensory processes, than of william james, who saw psychology as the science of mental life.
the psychology of religion course consists of one term of lectures (eight) and one term of tutorials (eight) per student.
there wasn’t that much that was too hard …
each interview lasted approximately 60 minutes, as planned, and included some additional questions to those reported here.
only upon being shown the  topics included in the psychology of religion syllabus, did ppp students admit  that religion had cognitive aspects also.
whether or not religion can be studied by scientific  methods, depends not only on the students’ conceptions of psychology as a  science but also on their implicit definitions of religion.
19 definitely… why people believe, and how people can believe so  much to devote their whole lives to religion.
the majority (17) saw the two disciplines as directly related and dealing with common questions and concerns albeit in a different way.
that always seems to be if you watch something on tv or read  about psychologists … it’s always a philosopher or a theologian  (who) said that prayer is really talking to god but a psychologist came along  and said, no, it’s not that.
1 i would say that psychology is a science.
so, when i enjoy something, it’s easy.
on the whole, theology students do not find psychology to be conceptually difficult; rather, they appear to be frustrated by the lack of experience with research methods.
for example, if there is a definite trend for everyone to personify sacred things, then you need the psychological tests, the data, which just the scientific aspects of psychology can provide.
when psychology is a component of the theology  curriculum, its content is typically psychoanalysis and pastoral psychology,  both of which are associated with mental health and emotional problems in adult  life.
i guess you don’t really have any empirical evidence  about religion but only about people.
not just asking what these statistics tell us but can we trust these statistics.
it would be fantastic to have that kind of course.
it gave me a  chance to find out about the scientific approaches… wonderfully, much  more rigorous, a real breath of fresh air.
they kind of correlate with something that is beyond studying… 19 certain aspects of it can… the more historical or sociological, but if you are talking about god, by definition it’s impossible.
5 we should do some tiny research… (there is) not enough feel that it is a science, just reading about it.
it is given to  you by god rather than by someone telling you to believe.
it’s where it has to be at present, given the nature of philosophy &  theology.
at the time of interviewing, nine students were studying for the joint final honours school (fhs) in philosophy & theology and 11 single fhs in theology.
a few of the typical explanations for  not attending lectures are cited below.
there is so much that i found quite surprising, its scope… religious experience, prayer, conversion, mysticism…
introducing the option of some  theological education to psychology courses would soon rectify the deficit.
for example, the majority of theology students have studied religion at a-level whilst significantly fewer ppp students took a-level religious studies.
finally, finding out about  students’ experiences with the current psychology of religion paper is  relevant to any further integration between psychology and theology or  religious studies.
table 2: prior familiarity with psychology as a discipline among theology  and ppp students none
big gain for me is to see how  people think using models, as in cognitive psychology.
instead, the most commonly involved  sciences are physical and biological, including neuroscience and  neuro-physiology.
the following two students make the point rather  eloquently.
although a questionnaire would have been a more economical procedure to use, the limitations of questionnaire as a method were judged to be a major constraint on the aims of the project.
3 no. 2 index page created on: january 14th 2010 updated on: august 19th 2010 subject centre for philosophical and religious studies - department of theology and religious studies - university of leeds - ls2 9jt
introducing the option of some theological education to psychology courses would soon rectify the deficit.
an important source of frustration for a number of students has been the perceived lack of connection between psychology and theology when such connections appear obvious.
whilst there is a wide  range of views within each group, ppp students tend to use stricter criteria  when judging the scientific status of psychology than their theology  counterparts, which is even more clearly stated in their responses to the next  question.
yeah,  it is … empirical data.
four ppp students were interested in psychology as a science  subject whilst two chose it almost accidentally, having discovered psychology  as a degree discipline at the point of applying.
for example, psychological issues (e.g., differentiating religious belief and emotion) are sometimes seen as a subject of theological and philosophical enquiry rather than of empirical research, as the following two examples show.
acknowledgements the current project was supported by a grant from the prs-ltsn mini-project  fund.
more specifically, questionnaires may yield ambiguous responses, which, unless followed up with further questions, would have to be eliminated from data analysis.
i find it  absolutely essential, almost practical, and… a practical and scientific  balance almost to the rest of my studies.
because of the relatively small size of the samples, interview data were  analysed mainly qualitatively according to the category of response,  restricting numerical analysis to only a few summaries in terms of frequencies  or percentages and presented in tables (see below).
in addition, five students said that psychology was a good choice  because its approach to religion was different from that found in their  theological papers and as such brought “a breath of fresh air” to  their overall study.
it’s really interesting.
in order  to study things scientifically, we must observe them.
i think up to a point, yes.
listed below are some of the typical examples of each group’s
in fact, now i am surprised  that it did take up such a large part of the course (laughs).
only one of the 20  theology students had attended the core lectures one term prior to having  tutorials, as i recommend.
telephone: (+44)113 3434184 | email: enquiries@prs.heacademy.ac.uk | fax:  (+44)113 3433654 help | accessibility | search | registration | cymru | scotland
i accepted that psychological explanations are very different.
i guess you don’t really have any empirical evidence about religion but only about people.
3 no. 2 index page 1.
i mean to understand the effect of religious stimuli; it gave me  a better ground to ask whether what i experience was the effect of god or just  me.
yes, but not a hard-core science, which i consider physics and chemistry  to be.
i thought it would be less so… when you are combining the two topics, psychology and theology, so that surprised me.
but when we are talking  about god, god is up there and we are down here, and there is no reason that,  because we talk to him today and he talks to us or answers us, why that will  happen tomorrow.
and i’d say that, especially in contrast with philosophy and theology, partly because it has so much interest in the situations in the world… it takes its evidence from how people behave and what they do… and there is a lot of discussion about proper methodology and whether the criteria for reaching a conclusion are valid.
at first, a daunting range … when i look at my first essay.
i prefer to hear about people’s own work … no.
two students cited their scientific interests as a reason for including psychology in their degree programme whilst one elected to do psychology because it was going to be useful in his future pastoral work.
you might find clues so you can see some things that may have led them to think of behaviour in a certain way
students’ changing conceptions of a subject indicate whether or not learning and understanding has taken place (e.g., biggs, 1999; ramsden, 1992).
and, also,  religion is a very personal thing and as such stands outside science.
the  comparison between theology and ppp students is appropriate for the following  reasons.
it can be very scientific; that’s a good thing.
the findings of this  investigation are equally relevant to psychology degree programmes, although  those implications will be considered in a separate report.
like with human relationships but even more difficult.
i suppose other people say that with psychology  you have to make too many inferences and the (?) too complicated to understand  with experiments but, i think, you can use those exact same arguments on  something like the structure of the universe, which is a science as well.
the fact that seven out of 32 ppp students (22%) choose the  philosophy of religion paper suggests an interest in religion, contrary to the  stereotypes about an incompatibility between scientific and religious interests.
from the viewpoint of the  perceived relevance of psychology to theology, it is understandable that many  students would like to see a greater component of psychology as part of their  theology degree and would prefer a more integrated interdisciplinary input from  the two disciplines.