the 2012 stanton award, for a young scholar in philosophy or psychology who  has begun making significant contributions to interdisciplinary research and  has been active in spp, will go to joshua greene (psychology, harvard).
teleological explanation: causal constraints and regularities 2004, justin fisher (philosophy, arizona)
lessons from 'acquired sociopathy' 2001, jonathan weinberg (philosophy, rutgers) conceptual analysis and  the diversity of intuitions 2000, pete mandik (philosophy-neuroscience-psychology program, washington  university , st. louis) physical subjectivity: points of view from the  brain's eye view 1999, stephanie beardman (philosophy, rutgers) the choice between  actual and remembered pain 1998, pete mandik, (philosophy-neuroscience-psychology program, washington  university, st. louis) action and experience: motor control and spatial  qualia 1997, brian scholl (center for cognitive science, rutgers) cognitive  architecture and cognitive development: two senses of 'surprise'
stanton prize procedures a 'prize coordinator' will be appointed by the executive committee, who  may or may not be a member of the executive committee, and who will have  primary responsibility for implementing the following procedures: 1)
a nominations will consist of the following, to be sent by email to  stantonprize@gmail.com
the revised closing date should be no later than one week after the  sending out of the revised call.
if the nominated winner withdraws then it will usually be understood that the next highest scoring candidate will be considered the winner.
poster prize 2011, brian edwards (psychology, northwestern university) and lance rips  (psychology, northwestern university) counterfactual states and  explanatory search 2010, kevin uttich and tania lombrozo (uc berkeley)
the candidate  should provide a full and current cv attached as a separate file (.doc or  .pdf).
reversing the side-effect effect: a rational explanation 2009, robert lurz (brooklyn college, cuny) if chimpanzees are mindreaders, could behavioral science tell? 2008, s. kate devitt (rutgers university), remembering beliefs and jonathan weinberg, joshua alexander and chad gonnerman (indiana university), unstable intuitions and need for cognition: how being thoughtful sometimes just means being wrong in a different way 2007, deena skolnick weisberg (yale university) the origin of imaginary companions
the 2011 william james prize, for the best contributed paper by a graduate student was awarded to victor kumar (philosophy, university of arizona).
stanton prize procedures a 'prize coordinator' will be appointed by the executive committee, who may or may not be a member of the executive committee, and who will have primary responsibility for implementing the following procedures: 1)
the 'executive committee', each of whom have a right to vote for the prize, is understood to consist of: the regular members of the executive committee, the past president, the current president, the president elect and the treasurer.
stanton prize 2012, joshua greene, (psychology, harvard) 2011, adina roskies (philosophy, dartmouth) 2010, tania lombrozo (psychology, uc berkeley) 2009, joshua knobe (philosophy, yale university) 2008, laurie santos (psychology, yale university) 2007, john doris (pnp, washington university, st. louis) 2006, fei xu (psychology, university of british columbia) 2005, shaun nichols (philosophy, university of arizona) 2004, david chalmers (philosophy, australian national university) 2003, jesse prinz (philosophy, university of north carolina, chapel hill) 2002, paul bloom (psychology, yale university) 2001, kathleen akins (philosophy, simon frasier university) william james prize 2011, victor kumar (philosophy, university of arizona, co-authored with richmond campbell)
this should be done one week prior to the vote to allow time for discussion.
however, any member of the committee and/or the prize coordinator may propose that second election be held, with or without a further round of nominations.
the 2011 william james prize, for the best contributed paper by a graduate  student was awarded to victor kumar (philosophy,  university of arizona).
the committee members should be given at least two days to return their vote by email.
if a member lists only one, then that person would receive 2 points.
it should be clear  how this would scale up.
in the event of a draw, a second vote will be held in which only the top drawing candidates will be considered, and in which each voting member will have a single vote.
if a nomination is received that is incomplete or does not otherwise  meet the guidelines specified in (2), then the prize coordinator may, at their  discretion, either reject the nomination outright, or they may inform the  nominator and the candidate of the situation and invite them to correct the  problem by a given deadline.
this should be done one week  prior to the vote to allow time for discussion.
an empirical follow-up to knobe and roedder 2006, liane young (psychology, harvard university) moral judgment is more consequentialist in individuals with ventromedial prefrontal damage 2005, adam shriver (philosophy, texas a&m univ.; washington university, st. louis) neural correlates of suffering 2004, tania lombrozo (psychology, harvard)
(c) a single sentence sent by email from an spp member in good standing stating that they nominate the candidate and giving their full name.
the deadline for votes should be stated in the email, and may be  extended by the voting coordinator at their discretion.
concerning  experiments on semantic intuitions 2008, justin sytsma (history & philosophy of science, university of  pittsburgh) two conceptions of subjective experience 2007, chad gonnerman (philosophy, indiana university) what do we see  in others?
, reese m. heitner (philosophy & linguistics, the graduate center,  city university of new york) the cyclical ontogeny of ontology: an  integrated developmental account of object and speech categorization 2002, adina roskies (philosophy, mit) are ethical judgments  intrinsically motivational?
the revised closing date should be no later than one week after the sending out of the revised call.
the prize coordinator will send out a call for nominations to the  entire spp membership by email, and further calls as they judge appropriate.
an empirical follow-up to knobe and roedder 2006, liane young (psychology, harvard university) moral judgment is  more consequentialist in individuals with ventromedial prefrontal damage 2005, adam shriver (philosophy, texas a&m univ.; washington university,  st. louis) neural correlates of suffering 2004, tania lombrozo (psychology, harvard)
at any time during this process any member of the executive committee and/or the prize coordinator may call for a vote to withhold the prize for that year.
the prize coordinator will then send an email reminding the  executive committee of the voting procedure and soliciting their votes.
a nominations will consist of the following, to be sent by email to stantonprize@gmail.com
the prize coordinator will then send an email reminding the executive committee of the voting procedure and soliciting their votes.
william james and poster prize winners are chosen by an ad hoc committee appointed by the president in consultation with the executive committee.
lessons from 'acquired sociopathy' 2001, jonathan weinberg (philosophy, rutgers) conceptual analysis and the diversity of intuitions 2000, pete mandik (philosophy-neuroscience-psychology program, washington university , st. louis) physical subjectivity: points of view from the brain's eye view 1999, stephanie beardman (philosophy, rutgers) the choice between actual and remembered pain 1998, pete mandik, (philosophy-neuroscience-psychology program, washington university, st. louis) action and experience: motor control and spatial qualia 1997, brian scholl (center for cognitive science, rutgers) cognitive architecture and cognitive development: two senses of 'surprise'
does simulation theory  really involve simulation?
the candidate should provide a full and current cv attached as a separate file (.doc or .pdf).
the  process for selecting stanton prize winners is described below.
reversing the  side-effect effect: a rational explanation 2009, robert lurz (brooklyn college, cuny)
if a nomination is received that is incomplete or does not otherwise meet the guidelines specified in (2), then the prize coordinator may, at their discretion, either reject the nomination outright, or they may inform the nominator and the candidate of the situation and invite them to correct the problem by a given deadline.
the stanton award is presented in honor harry and betty stanton of bradford  books/the mit press.
at any time  during this process any member of the executive committee and/or the prize  coordinator may call for a vote to withhold the prize for that year.
spp members are invited to send nominations for the 2013 prize to the chair of the stanton prize committee atstantonprize@gmail.com.
the stanton award is presented in honor harry and betty stanton of bradford books/the mit press.
if there are four nominees then each member of the committee  would list their preferred two candidates in order of preference.
if any  difficulties, logistic, expense related, or otherwise, have surfaced then the  executive committee will have an opportunity to air their views on how best to  proceed.
the first would receive 2 points, the second 1 point.
spp members are invited to send nominations for the 2013 prize to the  chair of the stanton prize committee atstantonprize@gmail.com.
the first  would receive 2 points, the second 1 point.
if this procedure yields a second draw, the president will have the right to select a winner from amongst the candidates who drew in the second election.
this will proceed only if a majority of the executive committee assents.
if a majority of the executive committee assents, then the prize will be held over until the next year.
no later than midnight est on the closing date:   (a) a brief statement of no more than 300 words describing: (i)
contact prizes each year the spp awards three prizes at its annual meeting.
if the nominated winner withdraws then it will usually be understood  that the next highest scoring candidate will be considered the winner.
past winners 2012, joshua greene, (psychology, harvard) 2011, adina roskies (philosophy, dartmouth) 2010, tania lombrozo (psychology, uc berkeley) 2009, joshua knobe (philosophy, yale university) 2008, laurie santos (psychology, yale university) 2007, john doris (pnp, washington university, st. louis) 2006, fei xu (psychology, university of british columbia) 2005, shaun nichols (philosophy, university of arizona) 2004, david chalmers (philosophy, australian national university) 2003, jesse prinz (philosophy, university of north carolina, chapel hill) 2002, paul bloom (psychology, yale university) 2001, kathleen akins (philosophy, simon frasier university) william james prize 2011, victor kumar (philosophy, university of arizona, co-authored with  richmond campbell)
the executive committee selects the winner of the stanton prize.
the prize coordinator will then send an email to the executive  committee containing the names and statements of all properly nominated  candidates, and offer to supply the full cvs of candidates on request, or  supply a link to a website where they are posted.
and  the 2011 prize for best poster went to brian edwards and lance rips  (psychology, northwestern university).
in the event of a draw, a second vote will be held in which only the  top drawing candidates will be considered, and in which each voting member will  have a single vote.
this statement may be  supplied by a nominator or by the candidate themselves.
if chimpanzees are  mindreaders, could behavioral science tell? 2008, s. kate devitt (rutgers university), remembering beliefs and jonathan weinberg, joshua alexander and chad gonnerman (indiana  university), unstable intuitions and need for cognition: how being thoughtful  sometimes just means being wrong in a different way 2007, deena skolnick weisberg (yale university) the origin of  imaginary companions © 2007-2012 society for  philosophy and psychology adapted from dreamtemplate
the process for selecting stanton prize winners is described below.
(d) a separate email from the candidate which must (i) state that they wish to be considered a candidate for the prize, (ii) endorse the accuracy of the nominating statement, and (iii) provide a clear and unqualified commitment to attend that year's meeting and give a talk if they are awarded the prize.
the deadline for votes should be stated in the email, and may be extended by the voting coordinator at their discretion.
does simulation theory really involve simulation? 2003, reese m. heitner (philosophy & linguistics, the graduate center, city university of new york) the cyclical ontogeny of ontology: an integrated developmental account of object and speech categorization 2002, adina roskies (philosophy, mit) are ethical judgments intrinsically motivational?
this statement may be supplied by a nominator or by the candidate themselves.
the prize coordinator will contact the nominated winner and have a conversation with them about their availability to attend the meeting to give a talk.
teleological explanation:  causal constraints and regularities 2004, justin fisher (philosophy, arizona)
the call for nominations will provide information about the prize and procedures for nomination, and will specify a closing date, which should be at least two weeks from the time of the first call for nominations.
the 2012 stanton award, for a young scholar in philosophy or psychology who has begun making significant contributions to interdisciplinary research and has been active in spp, will go to joshua greene (psychology, harvard).
if there are five nominees, each committee  member can provide an ordered list of up to three candidates, the first  receiving 3 points, the second 2 points, the last 1 point.
the winner will be determined by a scoring system as follows: if the number of nominees is n then each member of the executive committee should produce an ordered list of candidates with a minimum length of one and a maximum length of (n-2).
if, either at the time of closing or during the week prior to closing, it is felt that insufficient nominations have been received or that the nominations received to date are not of adequate quality, then the coordinator should seek the approval of the executive committee to send out a revised call with a later closing date.
poster prize 2011, brian edwards (psychology, northwestern university) and lance rips (psychology, northwestern university) counterfactual states and explanatory search 2010, kevin uttich and tania lombrozo (uc berkeley)
however,  any member of the committee and/or the prize coordinator may propose that  second election be held, with or without a further round of nominations.
the winner will be  determined by a scoring system as follows: if the number of nominees is n then  each member of the executive committee should produce an ordered list of  candidates with a minimum length of one and a maximum length of (n-2).
in other words, if there are just two or three nominees, then everyone would simply have a single vote.
the prize coordinator will then send an email to the executive committee containing the names and statements of all properly nominated candidates, and offer to supply the full cvs of candidates on request, or supply a link to a website where they are posted.
on the normative significance of moral psychologym 2010, nadia chernyak (psychology, cornell university, co-authored with tamar kushnir) developing notions of free will: preschoolers' understanding of how intangible constraints bind their freedom of choice 2009, justin sytsma and jonathan livengood (history & philosophy of science, university of pittsburgh) a new perspective concerning experiments on semantic intuitions 2008, justin sytsma (history & philosophy of science, university of pittsburgh) two conceptions of subjective experience 2007, chad gonnerman (philosophy, indiana university) what do we see in others?
if this procedure yields a second draw, the president will  have the right to select a winner from amongst the candidates who drew in the  second election.
in other  words, if there are just two or three nominees, then everyone would simply have  a single vote.
(d) a separate email from the candidate which must (i) state that they wish to  be considered a candidate for the prize, (ii) endorse the accuracy of the  nominating statement, and (iii) provide a clear and unqualified commitment to  attend that year's meeting and give a talk if they are awarded the prize.
if a member lists only one, then  that person would receive 2 points.
each year the spp awards three prizes at its annual meeting.
the  committee members should be given at least two days to return their vote by  email.
the prize coordinator will send out a call for nominations to the entire spp membership by email, and further calls as they judge appropriate.
the prize coordinator will then email a summary of the votes to the committee and provide them with a summary of this conversation.
on the normative significance of moral psychologym 2010, nadia chernyak (psychology, cornell university, co-authored with  tamar kushnir) developing notions of free will: preschoolers'  understanding of how intangible constraints bind their freedom of choice 2009, justin sytsma and jonathan livengood (history & philosophy of  science, university of pittsburgh) a new perspective
william james and poster prize winners are chosen by an ad hoc committee  appointed by the president in consultation with the executive committee.
the executive committee selects the winner of the stanton  prize.
the call for nominations will provide information about the prize and  procedures for nomination, and will specify a closing date, which should be at  least two weeks from the time of the first call for nominations.
the  contributions of the candidate to interdisciplinary research in psychology and  philosophy, or related disciplines (ii) the career stage of the candidate, and  (iii) the candidates past participation in the spp.
if there are four nominees then each member of the committee would list their preferred two candidates in order of preference.
the 'executive committee', each of whom have a right to vote for the  prize, is understood to consist of: the regular members of the executive  committee, the past president, the current president, the president elect and  the treasurer.
if there are five nominees, each committee member can provide an ordered list of up to three candidates, the first receiving 3 points, the second 2 points, the last 1 point.
(c) a single sentence sent by email from an spp member in good  standing stating that they nominate the candidate and giving their full name.
no later than midnight est on the closing date: (a) a brief statement of no more than 300 words describing: (i) the contributions of the candidate to interdisciplinary research in psychology and philosophy, or related disciplines (ii) the career stage of the candidate, and (iii) the candidates past participation in the spp.
if, either at  the time of closing or during the week prior to closing, it is felt that  insufficient nominations have been received or that the nominations received to  date are not of adequate quality, then the coordinator should seek the approval  of the executive committee to send out a revised call with a later closing  date.
it should be clear how this would scale up.
if a  majority of the executive committee assents, then the prize will be held over  until the next year.
if any difficulties, logistic, expense related, or otherwise, have surfaced then the executive committee will have an opportunity to air their views on how best to proceed.
this  will proceed only if a majority of the executive committee assents.
congratulations to the recent winners.
and the 2011 prize for best poster went to brian edwards and lance rips (psychology, northwestern university).
the prize coordinator will contact the nominated winner and have a  conversation with them about their availability to attend the meeting to give a  talk.
the prize coordinator will then email a summary of the votes to the  committee and provide them with a summary of this conversation.