our faculty are internationally recognized researchers and teachers.
these are skills required for today’s most promising careers.
the disciplines of philosophy and psychology have always closely interacted and informed each other.
recent graduates have gone to work in business, state and federal government, and counseling.
philosophers who study the mind rely upon the insights and discoveries of psychologists.
prospects for further study students of the joint major who seek to go to graduate school will be well positioned to study not only psychology or philosophy, but also cognitive science, counseling, and related disciplines.
for  decades, the interaction between these disciplines has been one of the most  important and fruitful sources of interdisciplinary scholarship.
program home page >>
we  have an active community of scholarship where students are welcome and  encouraged to participate.
along with a well-rounded understanding of both the disciplines of psychology and philosophy, training in the philosophy-psychology program will provide students with: oswego's major in philosophy-psychology encompasses both disciplines and how they interrelate, synthesizing two different perspectives of human understanding and creating a wider basis for effective thinking.
psychologists who study the fundamental nature of the mind adopt the questions of philosophers, and also share some of the concerns of philosophers regarding the best methods to study the mind.
oswego's unique joint major program in philosophy and psychology is in the forefront of meeting student needs in this domain of interdisciplinary study.
oswego's unique joint major program in philosophy and psychology is in the  forefront of meeting student needs in this domain of interdisciplinary study.
philosophers who  study the mind rely upon the insights and discoveries of psychologists.
the program is dedicated to the idea that work at the interface of these two disciplines is of fundamental importance to both disciplines and to the questions they seek to answer.
students in the philosophy-psychology program have opportunities to collaborate in research projects with faculty from both the philosophy and psychology departments.
oswego overview the disciplines of philosophy and psychology have always closely interacted  and informed each other.
students in recent years have gone on to study at the graduate-level law, counseling, psychology, philosophy, and other degrees.
for decades, the interaction between these disciplines has been one of the most important and fruitful sources of interdisciplinary scholarship.
contact: craig delancey, program coordinator 212c campus center craig.delancey@oswego.edu â state university of new york at oswego, oswego, ny 13126-3599 | phone: 315.312.2500 |about this site | contact us | t t tabout academics admissions popular links student life
the faculty of the philosophy-psychology program are the talented teachers, researchers and scholars of the philosophy and psychology departments.
along with a well-rounded understanding of both the disciplines of  psychology and philosophy, training in the philosophy-psychology program will  provide students with: strong critical reasoning abilities experience applying logic and statistics laboratory experience training in a wide range of different kinds of writing majors and programs oswego's major in philosophy-psychology encompasses both disciplines and  how they interrelate, synthesizing two different perspectives of human  understanding and creating a wider basis for effective thinking.
it requires a central core of courses in philosophy and psychology, advanced studies that interrelate the two, and a senior seminar taught by both a philosopher and a psychologist.
psychologists who study the fundamental nature of the  mind adopt the questions of philosophers, and also share some of the concerns  of philosophers regarding the best methods to study the mind.
full-time faculty include:
we have an active community of scholarship where students are welcome and encouraged to participate.
the program is dedicated to the idea that work at the interface of these two  disciplines is of fundamental importance to both disciplines and to the  questions they seek to answer.
it requires a  central core of courses in philosophy and psychology, advanced studies that  interrelate the two, and a senior seminar taught by both a philosopher and a  psychologist.
faculty the faculty of the philosophy-psychology program are the talented teachers,  researchers and scholars of the philosophy and psychology departments.
full-time faculty include: career prospects majors in the joint degree program will be well prepared for careers that require critical thinking skills, writing ability, and a good understanding of science.
student opportunities students in the philosophy-psychology program have opportunities to  collaborate in research projects with faculty from both the philosophy and  psychology departments.