17-27, 96-126 (chapters ii §1-2, chapters viii-ix);
all candidates  must take eight subjects in total.
the philosophy and economics of the environment† philosophical foundations: justice and goodness, theories of value;  decision-making under uncertainty.
1-10, 90-97 (action and will; natural law).
philosophy of science this paper will include such topics as: scientific method, including  induction, confirmation, corroboration, and explanation; the structure of  scientific theories, including syntactic and semantic approaches, the nature of  scientific laws, the theory-observation distinction, inter-theory reduction,  theory unification, and emergence; debates over realism, including the aims of  science, the under-determination of theory by data, and structuralism; and  scientific rationality, including theory change, epistemological naturalism,  and bayesian epistemology.
irwin (hackett, second edition).
a candidate's tutor may, however, discuss with the candidate the  field of study, the sources available, and the method of presentation; the  tutor may also read and comment on drafts.
further subjects in philosophy must be chosen in conformity with the general  regulations.
aristotle, nicomachean ethics candidates will be expected to have read books i-iii, vi-vii, x in greek (bywater, oxford classical text), and books iv-v, viii-ix in translation (irwin, hackett second edition).
spade,five texts, pp.
questions will also be set on historical schools in the philosophy of science, in particular logical positivism and logical empiricism, on aspects of the history of science, and on the philosophy of probability, including the nature of probabilistic laws.
literae humaniores the honour school is divided into two courses; for restrictions on entry to course ii, see the regulations underhonour school of literae humaniores .
the paper will then be replaced by 125.
any selection is permitted which conforms to the general regulations above and also to (i)-(v) following: the text-based subjects in philosophy are 130 (greek), 131 (greek), 132 (greek), 133 (greek), 134 (greek), 135 (latin).
this paper is only available in the honour school of philosophy,  politics and economics (where it can be offered alternatively as economics  paper 321).
the paper will consist of three sections; section a will include questions about descartes, spinoza, and leibniz; section b will include questions about locke, berkeley and hume; section c will include questions about kant.
candidates may also offer a special thesis, which may be in philosophy, in  accordance with the regulations under honour school of literae humaniores.
in part b candidates are required to take at least three subjects in philosophy from subjects 101–120, 122, 124 and 125, and including at least two from 101, 102, 104, 108, 119, 122, 124 and 125.
skip to navigation special regulations for philosophy in all honour schools including  philosophy oxford university > central administration >  examination regulations > special regulations for philosophy in all honour  schools including philosophy to search within this page: press ctrl + f (pc) or apple + f (mac)
philosophy and modern languages candidates are required to take one of the following  subjects: 101, 115, 116.
special subjects from time to time special subjects may be approved by the faculty of philosophy by regulations published in theuniversity gazette and communicated to college tutors by the end of the fifth week of trinity term two years before examination.
see the regulations below for that honour school.)
subjects in philosophy the syllabuses of the subjects in philosophy are specified below.
ordinals, and their  arithmetic.
candidates who take two  subjects in philosophy must take at least one of 101, 102, 104, or 125.
section a will include  philosophical problems associated with classical physics and some basic  philosophical issues raised by the special theory of relativity.
the editions to be used are n. kemp smith,immanuel kant's critique of pure  reason (macmillan 1929), and h. j. paton's translation of the groundwork of the metaphysic of morals (hutchinson, 1948).
this  paper will include an optional question containing passages for comment.
[from 1 october 2013: computer science and philosophy
formal systems of  arithmetic; representability of sets and functions.
frege, russell, and wittgenstein works principally to be studied are: frege, foundations of arithmetic, trans.
axiom of infinity and the construction of the natural numbers;  induction and the recursion theorem.
sextus empiricus: outlines of pyrrhonism (bury, loeb) there will be a compulsory question containing passages for translation and  comment.
the subject will be studied in connection with the following texts: descartes,meditations, objections and replies; spinoza, ethics; leibniz, monadology, discourse on metaphysics; locke, essay concerning human understanding; berkeley,principles of human knowledge, three dialogues between hylas and philonous; hume, treatise of human nature; kant, critique of pure reason.
no candidate may offer more than one special subject.
translations from the philosophical writings of gottlob frege; russell, ‘on denoting’, ‘mathematical logic as based on the theory of types’, and ‘on the nature of acquaintance’, in marsh, ed.,logic and knowledge; ‘the ultimate constituents of matter’, ‘the relation of sense-data to physics’, and ‘knowledge by acquaintance and knowledge by description’, in mysticism and logic; our knowledge of the external world, chs.
where subject 199 is taken, every candidate shall submit his or her  application for approval of the subject not earlier than the first day of  trinity full term two years before the term of the written examination in the  case of candidates planning to spend a year abroad.
deductive systems of  propositional and predicate calculus; proofs and theorems; prenex normal forms;  the soundness and completeness theorems.
the metaphysics of ethics: including the nature of morality and moral  properties, the truth-aptness of moral judgements, moral knowledge and moral  relativism.
in addition to these subjects, they may take one or two further subjects in philosophy.
this paper will include an optional question containing passages for comment.
(the date before which a proposal cannot be submitted is different in certain  circumstances in the case of the honour school of philosophy and modern  languages.
history of philosophy from descartes to kant candidates will be expected to show critical appreciation of the main  philosophical ideas of the period.
the same philosophy subject may not be taken in more than one part of the final examination.
13-95 (chapters ii-iv); spade,five texts, pp.
this subject may not be combined with subject 110.
tutorial provision  will be subject to the availability of law tutors and will normally take place  in either hilary or trinity term.
austin; begriffsschrift ch. 1, ‘function and concept’, ‘sense  and meaning’, ‘concept and object’, and ‘frege on  russell’s paradox', in geach and black, eds.
section b will be concerned with introductory philosophical problems related to the interpretation of quantum mechanics.
aristotle, nicomachean ethics candidates will be expected to have read books i-iii, vi-vii, x in greek  (bywater, oxford classical text), and books iv-v, viii-ix in translation  (irwin, hackett second edition).
decision problems;  undecidability of the halting problem.
philosophy of science and social science the paper will include such topics as: part a: the nature of theories; scientific observation and method; scientific explanation; the interpretation of laws and probability; rationality and scientific change; major schools of philosophy of science.
no thesis shall, however, be  ineligible because it has been or is being submitted for any prize of this  university.
medieval philosophy: aquinas the subject will be studied in the following text (the fathers of the english dominican province edition, 1911, rev.
there will be a compulsory question containing passages for translation and comment from the books read in greek; any passages for comment from the remaining books will be accompanied by a translation.
there will be some general and/or comparative questions, and questions on other authors may be set from time to time.
specific moral concepts: including happiness, well-being, rights,  virtue, fairness, equality, and desert.
questions will normally be set on the following topics: the nature of aesthetic value; the definition of art; art, society, and morality; criticism and interpretation; metaphor; expression; pictorial representation.
candidates will be required to show adequate first-hand knowledge of works of at least two authors (who may be studied in translation).
questions on the following authors  will regularly be set: hegel, schopenhauer, nietzsche, husserl, heidegger,  sartre, merleau-ponty.
de finibus iii (reynolds, oxford classical text), de officiis i in translation (griffin and atkins, cicero, on duties, cambridge); seneca,epistulae morales 92, 95, 121, de constantia, de vita beata (reynolds, oxford classical text).
the place of  intuition in mathematics (kant, poincaré).
philosophy and theology candidates are required to take (i) subject 107, (ii) one of the subjects 101, 115, and 116, and (iii)either subject 102 or subject 103.
there will be a compulsory question containing passages for translation and  comment from the texts read in latin; any passages for comment from cicero, de officiis i will be accompanied by a translation.
those  offering three or more philosophy subjects must choose at least two from the  above list.
de finibus iii (reynolds, oxford classical text), de  officiis i in translation (griffin and atkins, cicero, on duties,  cambridge); seneca,epistulae morales 92, 95, 121, de constantia,  de vita beata (reynolds, oxford classical text).
candidates are warned that they should avoid  repetition in papers of material used in their theses and that substantial  repetition may be penalised.
there will be a compulsory question containing passages  for translation and comment from the books read in greek; any passages for  comment from the remaining books will be accompanied by a translation.
part b: social meaning; individualism; rationality; rational choice theory;  prediction and explanation in economics; the explanation of social action;  historical explanation, ideology.
(ii) set theory basic axioms of set theory.
the subject may but need not overlap any subject on which  the candidate offers papers.
translations from the  philosophical writings of gottlob frege; russell, ‘on denoting’, ‘mathematical logic as based on  the theory of types’, and ‘on the nature of acquaintance’, in  marsh, ed.,logic and knowledge; ‘the ultimate constituents of  matter’, ‘the relation of sense-data to physics’, and  ‘knowledge by acquaintance and knowledge by description’, in mysticism and logic; our knowledge of the external world, chs.
the choice of instruments: taxes, permits and command-and-control; environmental instruments in practice.
thesis: the following restrictions on combinations apply to candidates whatever their honour school:
philosophy of mind topics to be studied include the nature of persons, the relation of mind  and body, self-knowledge, knowledge of other persons, consciousness,  perception, memory, imagination, thinking, belief, feeling and emotion, desire,  action, the explanation of action, subconscious and unconscious mental  processes.
in addition to these three, they may take one or two further  subjects in philosophy, depending upon whether they take five or four or three  subjects in all in theology.
politics and the environment.
no subject in philosophy may be offered in both part b and part c. each unit in philosophy other than a thesis shall be examined by a three-hour written paper together with an essay of at most 5,000 words conforming to the rules given in the course handbook. ]
philosophy of religion the subject will include an examination of claims about the existence of  god, and god's relation to the world; their meaning, the possibility of their  truth, and the kind of justification which can or needs to be provided for  them; and the philosophical problems raised by the existence of different  religions.
questions will normally  be set on the following topics: the nature of aesthetic value; the definition  of art; art, society, and morality; criticism and interpretation; metaphor;  expression; pictorial representation.
candidates may also offer a special thesis, which may be in philosophy, in accordance with the regulations under honour school of literae humaniores.
knowledge and reality candidates will be expected to show knowledge in some of the following  areas: knowledge and justification; perception; memory; induction; other minds; a priori knowledge; necessity and possibility; reference; truth; facts  and propositions; definition; existence; identity, including personal identity;  substances, change, events; properties; causation; space; time; essence;  natural kinds; realism and idealism; primary and secondary qualities.
the paper will then be replaced by 125.philosophy of cognitive science.
applied ethics, including medical ethics.
grube, revised reeve (hackett).
this paper will be available for examination until 2011 for the honour schools of philosophy, politics and economics; philosophy and modern languages; mathematics and philosophy; and physics and philosophy.
subjects in philosophy must be chosen in conformity with the regulations for the honour school and with the general regulations above; and subject 114 may not be offered by any candidate who takes subject 203 in politics.
their further subjects taken in philosophy must be chosen in conformity with the general regulations.]
the idea that mathematics  needs foundations.
any selection is permitted which conforms to the general regulations above  and also to (i)-(v) following: (i) candidates offering one philosophy subject only may offer any of the  subjects listed above except 121 and 199.
the director of  undergraduate studies of the faculty of philosophy shall decide as soon as  possible whether or not to approve the title and shall advise the candidate  immediately.
(iv)  both of subjects 117 and 118 may be offered only by  candidates inmathematics and philosophy [from 1 october 2013: and computer science and philosophy].
the paper for the supplementary subject "history and philosophy of science" is not here counted as a philosophy paper, since it is a joint paper in both history and philosophy.
philosophy, politics and economics any candidate in this school offers either philosophy politics and economicsor philosophy and politics or philosophy and economicsor politics and economics; and takes eight subjects in all.
candidates offering philosophy and politics are required to take (i) either subject 101, or subject 102, or subject 115, or subject 116, and (ii) subject 103.
physics and philosophy part b: candidates are required to take (i) subject 101 or 102; (ii) one  of subjects 106, or 124; and (iii) subject 120.
candidates will be required to answer three questions, with at least one question from section a and at least one question from section b. 102.
candidates who take one subject in philosophy may take any subject, except  121, in conformity with the general regulations.
candidates may not be permitted to offer certain special subjects in combination with certain other subjects, or may be permitted to do so only on condition that in the papers on the other subjects they will not be permitted to answer certain questions.
plato, theaetetus and sophist candidates will be expected to have read both dialogues in greek (duke et al., oxford classical text).
(ii)  this paper will be available for examination until 2012 for the  honour schools of literae humaniores; psychology, philosophy and physiology;  and philosophy and theology.
value and normativity: including good and right, reasons, rationality,  motivation, moral dilemmas.
each subject in philosophy other than a thesis shall be examined by a  three-hour written paper together with an essay of at most 5,000 words.
i-iv; either introduction to mathematical philosophy, chs.
limits to the formalization of mathematics (gödel).
one or two questions may also be set on central claims peculiar to christianity, such as the doctrines of the trinity, incarnation, and atonement.
the claim that mathematics must be constructive (brouwer).
knowledge and reality candidates will be expected to show knowledge in some of the following areas: knowledge and justification; perception; memory; induction; other minds; a priori knowledge; necessity and possibility; reference; truth; facts and propositions; definition; existence; identity, including personal identity; substances, change, events; properties; causation; space; time; essence; natural kinds; realism and idealism; primary and secondary qualities.
part c: those candidates offering one or more further philosophy subjects  must choose them from the subjects 101-4, 107-22 and 125 above, or rise of  modern logic as specified in the regulations for the degree of bachelor of  philosophy, or a thesis as specified in 199 above, save that the thesis shall  not exceed 20,000 words.
candidates offering politics and economics may take any one subject in philosophy.
questions will also be set on philosophical issues arising from  aspects of the history of cognitive science and from areas of active research  in cognitive science.
in part c each candidate shall offer a total of three units chosen in any combination from the lists for computer science and for philosophy.
economic foundations: externalities, public goods, international environmental agreements.
as speciﬁed in the regulations for the honour school of  jurisprudence.
it will also include some philosophical issues raised by thermodynamics and statistical mechanics.
the idea that mathematics needs foundations.
cartesian products, relations  and functions.
part b: philosophical issues arising from the history and practice of  psychology and neuroscience.
history of philosophy from descartes to kant candidates will be expected to show critical appreciation of the main philosophical ideas of the period.
philosophy of mathematics questions may be set which relate to the following issues: incommensurables in the development of greek geometry.
ockham, philosophical writings, tr.
advanced philosophy of physics the subject will include advanced topics in the philosophy of space, time,  and relativity and in the philosophical foundations of quantum mechanics.
linear  orders and well-orders; order isomorphism, dense linear order.
part b: social meaning; individualism; rationality; rational choice theory; prediction and explanation in economics; the explanation of social action; historical explanation, ideology.
cost-benefit analysis: foundations and critiques;  valuation methods.
philosophy of mathematics questions may be set which relate to the following issues:
(iii) metamathematics primitive recursion and general recursion.
candidates will be required to answer three questions, with at  least one question from section a and at least one question from section b. 102.
gödel's first incompleteness theorem; rosser's theorem; löb's  theorem; the hilbert-bernays adequacy conditions on a provability predicate;  gödel's second incompleteness theorem.
1-3 and 12-18,or ‘the philosophy of logical atomism’, in marsh, ed.,logic and knowledge; wittgenstein, tractatus logico-philosophicus.
the paper will consist of three sections: (i) propositional and predicate logic formal languages of propositional  logic, adequate sets of connectives, conjunctive and disjunctive normal form,  tautologies, logical consequence; formal languages of predicate logic,  satisfaction, truth, validity, logical consequence.
the philosophy and economics of the environment† philosophical foundations: justice and goodness, theories of value; decision-making under uncertainty.
equivalence of the axiom of choice, zorn's lemma, the well-ordering  principle, and cardinal comparability.
if a candidate wishes to change the title, subject or  focus of his or her thesis after his or her thesis proposal has already been  approved by the body responsible: he or she should write to the director of  undergraduate studies of the faculty of philosophy, c/o the undergraduate  studies administrator, to seek approval.
[from 1 october 2012: psychology and philosophy candidates may take at most five subjects in philosophy.
cardinality: finite, countable and  uncountable sets; cantor's theorem; the schröder-bernstein theorem.
the word count should  be indicated at the front of the thesis.
this subject may be offered only by candidates in ppe, and cannot be combined with either subject 114 or subject 203.
candidates may only take subjects in psychology if they offer psychology parts i and ii.
further subjects in philosophy must be chosen in conformity with the general regulations.
ethics candidates will be given an opportunity to show some first-hand knowledge of some principal historical writings on this subject, including those of aristotle, hume, and kant, but will not be required to do so.
this subject may be offered only by candidates in ppe, and  cannot be combined with either subject 114 or subject 203.
this subject may not be combined with subject 125.
where subject 199 is taken, every candidate shall submit his or her application for approval of the subject not earlier than the first day of trinity full term two years before the term of the written examination in the case of candidates planning to spend a year abroad.
those offering three or more subjects must also select one  subject from 101, 102, 103, and 108.
the first examination in philosophy of cognitive science will be 2013 for the honour schools of literae humaniores; psychology, philosophy and physiology; and philosophy and theology.
note: the first examination in philosophy of cognitive science will be 2012 for the honour schools of philosophy, politics and economics; philosophy and modern languages; mathematics and philosophy; and physics and philosophy.
the finitary study of formal systems as a means of justifying infinitary mathematics (hilbert).
the  finitary study of formal systems as a means of justifying infinitary  mathematics (hilbert).
subjects in philosophy must be chosen in conformity with the regulations for  the honour school and with the general regulations above; and subject 114 may  not be offered by any candidate who takes subject 203 in politics.
this subject may not be combined with subject 111.
aristotle: nicomachean ethics, tr.
latin philosophy cicero:
candidates may only take subjects in  psychology if they offer psychology parts i and ii.
plato, republic candidates will be expected to have read books i, iv-vii, x in greek  (slings oxford classical text), and books ii-iii, viii-ix in translation  (grube, revised reeve, hackett).
candidates taking subject 199 who wish to write their thesis during the long vacation may submit titles for approval before noon on friday of the fourth week of the trinity term in the year preceding the examination, and approval will be notified before the end of that term.
in addition to these three, they may take one or two further subjects in philosophy, depending upon whether they take five or four or three subjects in all in theology.
philosophy of cognitive science.
this paper will include such topics as: part a: the nature of theories; scientific observation and method; scientific explanation; the interpretation of laws and probability; rationality and scientific change; major schools of philosophy of science.
irwin (hackett, second  edition).
cardinals, and their arithmetic.
transfinite  induction and recursion.
candidates will be required to answer at least one question from each section.
some questions will be set which allow candidates to make use of knowledge of linguistics.
(vi)  in the paper on subject 101, questions exclusively on kant will not  be answerable by candidates taking subject 112 in the same year or any previous  year.
1-3 and 12-18,or ‘the philosophy of logical  atomism’, in marsh, ed.,logic and knowledge; wittgenstein, tractatus logico-philosophicus.
total  and partial functions.
the significance of non-euclidean geometry.
candidates offering philosophy politics and economics are required to take  (i)either subject 101, or subject 102, or subject  115,or subject 116, and (ii) subject 103.
aesthetics and the philosophy of criticism candidates will have the opportunity to show first-hand knowledge of some  principal authorities on the subject, including plato,ion and republic; aristotle, poetics; hume, of the standard of taste ; kant, critique of aesthetic judgement.
1-10, 90-97  (action and will; natural law).
regulations for particular honour schools [from 1 october 2013: computer science and philosophy
philosophy of religion the subject will include an examination of claims about the existence of god, and god's relation to the world; their meaning, the possibility of their truth, and the kind of justification which can or needs to be provided for them; and the philosophical problems raised by the existence of different religions.
candidates offering a further subject in philosophy must select one from the list of subjects 101-122 and 125 above, in accordance with the general regulations.
17-27, 96-126 (chapters  ii §1-2, chapters viii-ix);
a unit in philosophy consists of one of the subjects 101–120, 122, 124 and 125 as specified above, or the rise of modern logic as specified in the regulations for the degree of bachelor of philosophy, or a thesis as specified in 199 above except that the thesis shall not exceed 20,000 words.
the text-based subjects in philosophy are 130 (greek), 131 (greek), 132  (greek), 133 (greek), 134 (greek), 135 (latin).
all candidates must take eight subjects in total.
note: the first examination in philosophy of cognitive science will be 2012 for the honour schools of philosophy, politics and  economics; philosophy and modern languages; mathematics and philosophy; and  physics and philosophy.
philosophy  of cognitive science.
physics and philosophy part b: candidates are required to take (i) subject 101 or 102; (ii) one of subjects 106, or 124; and (iii) subject 120.
no candidate may offer  more than one special subject.
candidates may answer no more than one question on kant's moral philosophy.
the later philosophy of wittgenstein works principally to be studied are philosophical investigations andthe blue and brown books.
the same philosophy subject may not be taken in more than one part of the  final examination.
special subjects from time to time special subjects may be approved by the faculty of  philosophy by regulations published in theuniversity gazette and  communicated to college tutors by the end of the fifth week of trinity term two  years before examination.
every candidate shall  sign a certificate to the effect that the thesis is his or her own work and the  tutor shall countersign the certificate confirming, to the best of his or her  knowledge and belief, that this is so.
the philosophy of logic and language the subject will include questions on such topics as: meaning, truth, logical form, necessity, existence, entailment, proper and general names, pronouns, definite descriptions, intensional contexts, adjectives and nominalization, adverbs, metaphor, and pragmatics.
this subject may not be combined with subject  111.
there will be some general and/or comparative questions,  and questions on other authors may be set from time to time.
tutorial provision will be subject to the availability of law tutors and will normally take place in either hilary or trinity term.
candidates offering philosophy papers* in any honour school must conform to  the general regulations below, and to those for their particular school, as  specified elsewhere.
questions on the following authors will regularly be set: hegel, schopenhauer, nietzsche, husserl, heidegger, sartre, merleau-ponty.
the subject will be studied in connection  with the following texts: descartes,meditations, objections and replies; spinoza, ethics; leibniz, monadology, discourse on  metaphysics; locke, essay concerning human understanding;  berkeley,principles of human knowledge, three dialogues between hylas and  philonous; hume, treatise of human nature; kant, critique of  pure reason.
candidates will be required to answer at least one question from each part  of the paper.
(iii) candidates offering subject 199, thesis in philosophy, may not  offer any other thesis except a special thesis; (iv) all candidates must offer at least four text-based subjects, not  necessarily in philosophy (or three if offering second classical language in  course ii); (v) all candidates in course i must offer at least one text-based subject  in each of classical greek texts and classical latin texts, not necessarily in  philosophy.
see  special regulations for the honour school of physics and philosophy for  regulations concerning the examination essays.
undefinability of truth.
economic foundations: externalities, public  goods, international environmental agreements.
post-kantian philosophy the main developments of philosophy in continental europe after kant,  excluding marxism and analytical philosophy.
intergenerational ethics, discounting.
one or two questions may also be set on central claims peculiar to  christianity, such as the doctrines of the trinity, incarnation, and atonement.
candidates in either course may offer any number of subjects in philosophy up  to five, or up to four if they are offering second classical language in course  ii.
the problem of mathematical rigour in the development of the calculus.
questions will also be set on philosophical issues arising from aspects of the history of cognitive science and from areas of active research in cognitive science.
further subjects in philosophy must be chosen in  conformity with the general regulations.
(iii)  a candidate may not take both of subjects 116 and 132.
aristotle, physics candidates will be expected to have read books i-iv and viii in greek (ross, oxford classical texts), and books v-vii in translation (in barnes, ed., the complete works of aristotle: the revised oxford translation (princeton), vol. 1).
the  problem of mathematical rigour in the development of the calculus.
in addition to this subject, they must take two or three or four further subjects in philosophy, depending upon whether the number of subjects they take in part ii in modern languages is three or two or one.
the paper will consist of three sections; section a will  include questions about descartes, spinoza, and leibniz; section b will include  questions about locke, berkeley and hume; section c will include questions  about kant.
(ii) candidates offering at least two philosophy subjects must select at  least one subject in ancient philosophy, i.e., one of 115, 116, 130, 131, 132,  133, 134, and 135.
the paper for the supplementary  subject "history and philosophy of science" is not here counted as a  philosophy paper, since it is a joint paper in both history and philosophy.
aesthetics and the philosophy of criticism candidates will have the opportunity to show first-hand knowledge of some principal authorities on the subject, including plato,ion and republic; aristotle, poetics; hume, of the standard of taste ; kant, critique of aesthetic judgement.
the philosophy of kant critique of pure reason, groundwork of the metaphysic of morals.
there will be a compulsory question containing  passages for translation and comment from the books read in greek; any passages  for comment from the remaining books will be accompanied by a translation.
candidates offering politics and economics may take any one subject in  philosophy.
questions will normally be set on the following topics: 104.
mathematics and philosophy see special regulations for the honour school of mathematics and philosophy.
medieval philosophy: aquinas the subject will be studied in the following text (the fathers of the  english dominican province edition, 1911, rev.
philosophy of mind topics to be studied include the nature of persons, the relation of mind and body, self-knowledge, knowledge of other persons, consciousness, perception, memory, imagination, thinking, belief, feeling and emotion, desire, action, the explanation of action, subconscious and unconscious mental processes.
a three hour written examination paper will be set in each subject except 199.
medieval philosophy: duns scotus, ockham the subject will be studied in the following texts: duns scotus, philosophical writings, tr.
section a will include philosophical problems associated with classical physics and some basic philosophical issues raised by the special theory of relativity.
philosophy of  cognitive science.
this  subject may not be combined with subject 110.
cost-benefit analysis: foundations and critiques; valuation methods.
candidates will be required to answer at least one question from each part of the paper.
part c: those candidates offering one or more further philosophy subjects must choose them from the subjects 101-4, 107-22 and 125 above, or rise of modern logic as specified in the regulations for the degree of bachelor of philosophy, or a thesis as specified in 199 above, save that the thesis shall not exceed 20,000 words.
candidates taking subject 199 who wish to write their thesis during the  long vacation may submit titles for approval before noon on friday of the  fourth week of the trinity term in the year preceding the examination, and  approval will be notified before the end of that term.
every candidate shall submit the thesis,  identified by the candidate's examination number only, not later than noon on  friday of the week before the trinity full term of the examination to the  examination schools, oxford, addressed to the chairman of the examiners in the  candidate's honour school.
ethics candidates will be given an opportunity to show some first-hand knowledge  of some principal historical writings on this subject, including those of  aristotle, hume, and kant, but will not be required to do so.
computability: turing machines or register machines;  existence of a universal machine; the s-m-n theorem.
(ii)  a candidate may not take both of subjects 115 and 130.
every candidate shall submit for approval by the  director of undergraduate studies of the faculty of philosophy, c/o the  undergraduate studies administrator at 10 merton street, oxford, ox1 4jj, the  title he or she proposes, together with (a) an explanation of the  subject in about 100 words; and (b) a letter of approval from his or  her tutor, not earlier than the first day of the trinity full term of the year  before that in which he or she is to be examined and not later than friday of  the fourth week of the michaelmas full term preceding his or her examination.
in addition to these two, they must  take one, and they may take two or three, further subjects in philosophy.
ethical theories: including consequentialism, utilitarianism, and  contractualism.
to search within this page: press ctrl + f (pc) or apple + f (mac) candidates offering philosophy papers* in any honour school must conform to the general regulations below, and to those for their particular school, as specified elsewhere.
philosophy of science and philosophy of psychology and neuroscience notes: (i)  this paper will be available for examination until  2011 for the honour schools of philosophy, politics and economics; philosophy  and modern languages; mathematics and philosophy; and physics and philosophy.
predicate calculus with  identity, normal models.
the applicability of mathematics.
philosophy and modern languages candidates are required to take one of the following subjects: 101, 115, 116.
this paper will include an optional question  containing passages for comment.
candidates will be required to answer at  least one question from each section.
in addition to these  subjects, they may take one or two further subjects in philosophy.
subject the subject of every thesis should fall within the  scope of philosophy.
the nature of infinity.
authorship and origin every thesis shall be the candidate's  own work.
general regulations the following restrictions on combinations apply to candidates whatever  their honour school: (i)  a candidate may not take both of subjects 106 and 124.
the editions to be used are n. kemp smith,immanuel kant's critique of pure reason (macmillan 1929), and h. j. paton's translation of the groundwork of the metaphysic of morals (hutchinson, 1948).
those offering three or more philosophy subjects must choose at least two from the above list.
candidates offering a further  subject in philosophy must select one from the list of subjects 101-122 and 125  above, in accordance with the general regulations.
questions will  normally be set on the following topics: 1.
this paper will include such topics as: part a: the nature of theories; scientific observation and method;  scientific explanation; the interpretation of laws and probability; rationality  and scientific change; major schools of philosophy of science.
this paper will be available for examination until 2012 for the honour schools of literae humaniores; psychology, philosophy and physiology; and philosophy and theology.
1920): aquinas, summa theologiae, ia, 2-11, 75-89 (god, metaphysics, and  mind);or aquinas, summa theologiae, ia iiae qq.
moral psychology: including conscience, guilt and shame, freedom and  responsibility.
boehner (hackett), pp.
the syllabuses of the subjects in philosophy are specified below.
as speciﬁed in the regulations for the honour school of jurisprudence.
philosophy of science and social science the paper will include such topics as: part a: the nature of theories; scientific observation and method;  scientific explanation; the interpretation of laws and probability; rationality  and scientific change; major schools of philosophy of science.
in addition to this subject, they must take two or  three or four further subjects in philosophy, depending upon whether the number  of subjects they take in part ii in modern languages is three or two or one.
subject to these qualifications, any candidate  may offer any special subject.
comparisons between geometry and other branches of mathematics.
no decision procedure for  first-order logical validity; no complete proof procedure for second-order  logical validity.
derivation of the compactness theorem,  simple applications of the compactness theorem.
it  will also include some philosophical issues raised by thermodynamics and  statistical mechanics.
there shall be a select bibliography  or a list of sources.
their further subjects taken in philosophy must be chosen in  conformity with the general regulations.]
the role of logic and set theory (dedekind, cantor, frege,  russell).
there will be a compulsory question  containing passages for translation and comment.
some questions will be set  which allow candidates to make use of knowledge of linguistics.
the role of logic and set theory (dedekind, cantor, frege, russell).
their further subjects taken in philosophy must be chosen in  conformity with the general regulations.
mathematical objects and structures.
theory of politics the critical study of political values and of the concepts used in political analysis: the concept of the political; power, authority, and related concepts; the state; law; liberty and rights; justice and equality; public interest and common good; democracy and representation; political obligation and civil disobedience; ideology; liberalism, socialism, and conservatism.
theory of politics the critical study of political values and of the concepts used in  political analysis: the concept of the political; power, authority, and related  concepts; the state; law; liberty and rights; justice and equality; public  interest and common good; democracy and representation; political obligation  and civil disobedience; ideology; liberalism, socialism, and conservatism.
a three  hour written examination paper will be set in each subject except 199.
anti-foundational views of mathematics.
differences between first-order and second-order logic.
philosophy of science and philosophy of psychology and neuroscience notes: (i)
plato, republic candidates will be expected to have read books i, iv-vii, x in greek (slings oxford classical text), and books ii-iii, viii-ix in translation (grube, revised reeve, hackett).
the first examination in philosophy of cognitive  science will be 2013 for the honour schools of literae humaniores; psychology,  philosophy and physiology; and philosophy and theology.
the philosophy of logic and language the subject will include questions on such topics as: meaning, truth,  logical form, necessity, existence, entailment, proper and general names,  pronouns, definite descriptions, intensional contexts, adjectives and  nominalization, adverbs, metaphor, and pragmatics.
philosophy of cognitive science topics to be studied include: levels of description, including personal and  subpersonal levels, and relationships between levels; the nature of cognitive  scientific theories; information and representation, including representational  format, the language of thought, and connectionist alternatives; information  processing, including algorithms, and tacit knowledge of rules; cognitive  architecture, including modularity, and homuncular functionalism; explanation  in cognitive science, including functional explanation and mechanistic  explanation; methods in cognitive science, including cognitive neuropsychology,  computational modelling, and experimental cognitive psychology; the scientific  study of consciousness, including the status of introspective reports and  non-verbal measures, and the notion of a neural and computational correlate of  consciousness.
in addition to these two, they must take one, and they may take two or three, further subjects in philosophy.
philosophy of science this paper will include such topics as: scientific method, including induction, confirmation, corroboration, and explanation; the structure of scientific theories, including syntactic and semantic approaches, the nature of scientific laws, the theory-observation distinction, inter-theory reduction, theory unification, and emergence; debates over realism, including the aims of science, the under-determination of theory by data, and structuralism; and scientific rationality, including theory change, epistemological naturalism, and bayesian epistemology.
their further subjects taken in philosophy must be chosen in conformity with the general regulations.
notwithstanding any contrary indication in these regulations,  subjects 130, 131, 132, 133, 134, and 135 may be offeredonly by  candidates inclassics and english, classics and modern languages, classics  and oriental studies, literae humaniores,and oriental studies.
candidates in either course may offer any number of subjects in philosophy up to five, or up to four if they are offering second classical language in course ii.
candidates who take one subject in philosophy may take any subject, except 121, in conformity with the general regulations.
no subject in philosophy  may be offered in both part b and part c. each unit in philosophy other than a  thesis shall be examined by a three-hour written paper together with an essay  of at most 5,000 words conforming to the rules given in the course handbook. ]
1920): aquinas, summa theologiae, ia, 2-11, 75-89 (god, metaphysics, and mind);or aquinas, summa theologiae, ia iiae qq.
(viii)  a candidate may not take both of subjects 110 and 111.
aristotle, physics candidates will be expected to have read books i-iv and viii in greek  (ross, oxford classical texts), and books v-vii in translation (in barnes, ed., the complete works of aristotle: the revised oxford translation (princeton), vol. 1).
the choice of instruments: taxes,  permits and command-and-control; environmental instruments in practice.
candidates offering philosophy politics and economics are required to take (i)either subject 101, or subject 102, or subject 115,or subject 116, and (ii) subject 103.
whichever a candidate's honour school, where it is prescribed that he or she must take one or other of certain specified subjects and must take in addition some further subjects, a subject that is not chosen from among the specified ones may be chosen as a further subject.
whichever a candidate's honour school, where it is prescribed that he or  she must take one or other of certain specified subjects and must take in  addition some further subjects, a subject that is not chosen from among the  specified ones may be chosen as a further subject.
austin; begriffsschrift ch. 1, ‘function and concept’, ‘sense and meaning’, ‘concept and object’, and ‘frege on russell’s paradox', in geach and black, eds.
(v)  a candidate may not take subject 199 unless he or she also takes  three other philosophy subjects.
a unit in  philosophy consists of one of the subjects 101–120, 122, 124 and 125 as  specified above, or the rise of modern logic as specified in the regulations  for the degree of bachelor of philosophy, or a thesis as specified in 199 above  except that the thesis shall not exceed 20,000 words.
philosophy, politics and economics any candidate in this school offers either philosophy politics and  economicsor philosophy and politics or philosophy and  economicsor politics and economics; and takes eight subjects in all.
the paper will consist of three sections: 120.
candidates will be required to show adequate knowledge of at least two  authors.
no decision shall be deferred beyond the end of the fifth week of  michaelmas full term.
candidates may not be permitted to offer certain  special subjects in combination with certain other subjects, or may be  permitted to do so only on condition that in the papers on the other subjects  they will not be permitted to answer certain questions.
questions will also be set on historical schools in  the philosophy of science, in particular logical positivism and logical  empiricism, on aspects of the history of science, and on the philosophy of  probability, including the nature of probabilistic laws.
candidates will be required to show adequate knowledge of at least two authors.
first-order theories and their properties: completeness, categoricity.
self-interest, altruism, and amoralism.
there will be a compulsory question containing passages for translation and comment from the texts read in latin; any passages for comment from cicero, de officiis i will be accompanied by a translation.
philosophy of cognitive science topics to be studied include: levels of description, including personal and subpersonal levels, and relationships between levels; the nature of cognitive scientific theories; information and representation, including representational format, the language of thought, and connectionist alternatives; information processing, including algorithms, and tacit knowledge of rules; cognitive architecture, including modularity, and homuncular functionalism; explanation in cognitive science, including functional explanation and mechanistic explanation; methods in cognitive science, including cognitive neuropsychology, computational modelling, and experimental cognitive psychology; the scientific study of consciousness, including the status of introspective reports and non-verbal measures, and the notion of a neural and computational correlate of consciousness.
no thesis shall exceed 15,000 words, the  limit to include all notes and appendices but not including the bibliography;  no person or body shall have authority to permit any excess, except that in  literae humaniores, in a thesis consisting in commentary on a text, quotation  from the text will not be counted towards the word limit.
no thesis shall be accepted which has already been submitted  for a degree of this or any other university, and the certificate shall also  state that the thesis has not been so submitted.
subject to these qualifications, any candidate may offer any special subject.
intermediate philosophy of physics the paper will consist of two sections.
comparisons between geometry and other  branches of mathematics.
in part b candidates are required to take at least three subjects in  philosophy from subjects 101–120, 122, 124 and 125, and including at  least two from 101, 102, 104, 108, 119, 122, 124 and 125.
incommensurables  in the development of greek geometry.
(ix)  jurisprudence (subject 150) may be offered only by candidates in  ppe, and cannot be combined with either subject 114 or subject 203.
there will be a compulsory question containing passages for comment.
the amount of assistance the tutor  may give is equivalent to the teaching of a normal paper.
the place of intuition in mathematics (kant, poincaré).
all theses must be typed in double spacing on one side of  quarto or a4 paper with any notes and references at the foot of each page.
candidates will be  required to show adequate first-hand knowledge of works of at least two authors  (who may be studied in translation).
two copies of the thesis shall be submitted to the examiners.
candidates may only take subjects in  psychology if they offerpsychology parts i and ii .
advanced philosophy of physics the subject will include advanced topics in the philosophy of space, time, and relativity and in the philosophical foundations of quantum mechanics.
see special regulations for the honour school of physics and philosophy for regulations concerning the examination essays.
there will be a compulsory question containing passages for translation and comment.
comparability of well-orders.
psychology, philosophy, physiology candidates may take at most five subjects in philosophy.
candidates offering philosophy and economics are required to take (i) either subject 101 , or subject 102, or subject 115, or subject 116, and (ii) subject 103.
candidates who take two subjects in philosophy must take at least one of 101, 102, 104, or 125.
this certificate shall be placed in a  sealed envelope bearing the candidate's examination number presented together  with the thesis.
post-kantian philosophy the main developments of philosophy in continental europe after kant, excluding marxism and analytical philosophy.
each subject in philosophy other than a thesis shall be examined by a three-hour written paper together with an essay of at most 5,000 words.
section b will  be concerned with introductory philosophical problems related to the  interpretation of quantum mechanics.
the undergraduate studies  administrator will inform the candidate whether the change to the thesis has  been approved, and communicate any change, where approved, to the appropriate  chair of examiners.
in part c each candidate shall offer a total of three units chosen in any  combination from the lists for computer science and for philosophy.
candidates may only take subjects in psychology if they offerpsychology parts i and ii .
literae humaniores the honour school is divided into two courses; for restrictions on entry to  course ii, see the regulations underhonour school of literae humaniores .
sextus empiricus: outlines of pyrrhonism (bury, loeb) there will be a compulsory question containing passages for translation and comment.
part b: philosophical issues arising from the history and practice of psychology and neuroscience.
the löwenheim-skolem theorems.