7371 abeerman@smumn.edu
one theology elective very rev. andrew beerman, s.t.l. saint mary’s university of minnesota 700 terrace heights #43 winona, mn 55987-1399 (800) 635-5987, ext.
philosophy dept. | program overviewmajor overview 43 credits why ihm seminary philosophy?
prerequisite: ph355.
this course is a continuation of l101.
this major is specifically designed to prepare the student for the requirements of such study.
th220 - introduction to the new testament (3 credits)
while this course is designed as an in-depth study of aquinas, it also serves as a preparation for the future study of aquinas’s theology; accordingly, there is a decided focus on developing a thomistic vocabulary.
prerequisite: ihm seminarians only.
the goals of this course are to examine the following themes and philosophical problems: the relation of faith and reason, spirituality and philosophy; human knowledge and human freedom; and philosophy as a principle of integration within medieval culture.
this course, the fourth of four history of philosophy courses, is an examination of the post-kantian philosophy focusing on selected major movements of the 19th and 20th centuries, such as idealism, phenomenology, existentialism, and british analytic and ordinary language philosophy.
ph410 - the philosophy of saint thomas aquinas (3 credits)
this course is designed to be taken in the spring semester of the senior  year.
working with the interpretive strategies gained in th210 introduction to old testament, students begin to assess the dynamics of interpretation through the completion of an exegetical paper.
prerequisite: e120 or equivalent or act composite score of 20.
the course begins with a thorough examination of the foundations of natural law ethics and consequentialist ethics.
this course is designed to provide the student the opportunity to discover, reflect upon and react critically to aquinas’s life, thought and writings.
students survey examples of texts from the pauline, catholic and pastoral epistles, the gospels and acts; hebrews and revelation are also introduced.
prerequisite: recommendation from the ihm seminary  rector or consent of the instructor.
prerequisite: recommendation from the ihm seminary rector or consent of the instructor.
working with the interpretive strategies gained in th210 introduction to old  testament, students begin to assess the dynamics of interpretation through the  completion of an exegetical paper.
ph410 - the philosophy of saint thomas aquinas (3 credits) saint thomas aquinas is one of the central figures in the history of western philosophy.
the essentials of latin grammar as well as vocabulary and idioms are presented for passive recognition, followed by translation and sight-reading.
students survey examples from the pentateuch, prophetic, historical and wisdom texts, their forms, settings and theology.
the  students read in the original latin simple sentences and paragraphs of  increasing complexity as the skills are developed.
students survey examples of texts from the pauline, catholic and pastoral  epistles, the gospels and acts; hebrews and revelation are also introduced.
this course is designed to be taken in the spring semester of the senior year.
the course is designed to teach the fundamental skills, including grammar,  syntax, and vocabulary recognition, necessary for reading latin literature.
ph358 - history of 19th and 20th century philosophy:  hegel-wittgenstein (4 credits)
th210 - introduction to the old testament (3 credits)
in this course, the second of four history of philosophy courses, students study the development of philosophy in the middle ages through its contact with christianity.
prerequisites: ph253 and ph254.
this survey incorporates an  appreciation for some basic contemporary interpretive methods.
methods  encouraged by vatican ii’s dogmatic constitution on divine revelation are  studied.
the themes covered include an investigation of what  we can know of god by the use of human reason, the role of human beings and  their nature in the order of creation, the manner in which human action, in  cooperation with grace, can bring humans to their final end, as well as other  issues of metaphysics, psychology and methodology.
students then examine rationalism, empiricism and conclude with kant’s critical philosophy.
the last few weeks are devoted to reading selections from various latin authors.
the christian bible leads to christ, the mystery of salvation.
ph360 - epistemology (3 credits) epistemology is the study of how it is that humans come to know themselves  and the world we inhabit.
b. two additional philosophy courses.
ph402 - senior thesis (3 credits) this course is taken in the second semester of the senior year and is an  opportunity to work closely with a faculty member in the philosophy department  on a written thesis.
the themes covered include an investigation of what we can know of god by the use of human reason, the role of human beings and their nature in the order of creation, the manner in which human action, in cooperation with grace, can bring humans to their final end, as well as other issues of metaphysics, psychology and methodology.
central texts in the course are saint thomas aquinas’ prima secundae and john stewart mill’s utilitarianism.
prerequisite: e120 or equivalent or act composite  score of 20.
the primary sources are sacred scripture and the catechism  of the catholic church.
ph300 - moral theory (3 credits)
c.  required seminary courses: (either l101 and l102 or l141 and  l142)
the immaculate heart of  mary (ihm) seminary philosophy major recognizes that some students majoring in  philosophy do so intending to pursue the study of theology at the graduate  level.
this course  is divided into four parts corresponding to the catechism of the catholic  church: professing our faith, celebrating our faith, living our faith, and  praying our faith.
prerequisite: l101 or recommendation from the ihm seminary rector.
the mystery of salvation (3 credits)
ph345 - philosophy of the person (3 credits) this course critically examines some of the most influential conceptions of  the human person (e.g., the platonic, the aristotelian-thomistic, the  judeo-christian, the hobbesian and that of other modern thinkers).
students also begin to develop  a facility with the various tools and terms with which philosophers in the  western tradition have worked.
seminary philosophy major recognizes that some students majoring in philosophy do so intending to pursue the study of theology at the graduate level.
this course is a survey of theories of knowledge that span the western tradition from the greeks to the present day.
l141 - basic latin i (3 credits)
it considers  such fundamental issues as the existence and nature of the human soul; whether  human beings are innately good, innately evil, both or neither; in what sense,  if any, human beings are rational; and the nature and basis of human freedom.
the course is designed to teach the fundamental skills, including grammar, syntax, and vocabulary recognition, necessary for reading latin literature.
ph253 - history of ancient philosophy: thales-aristotle (4 credits)
ph355 - history of modern philosophy: bacon-kant (4 credits) in this course, the third of four history of philosophy courses students study the major philosophical movements of the early modern period beginning with the rise of inductive natural science.
the students read in the original latin simple sentences and paragraphs of increasing complexity as the skills are developed.
these credits and gpa not included in the major l101 - introduction to latin i (3 credits) this course is for students who would like to gain a good reading knowledge  of latin in one term.
this course is designed to provide the student the  opportunity to discover, reflect upon and react critically to aquinas’s  life, thought and writings.
the primary sources are sacred scripture and the catechism of the catholic church.
l102 - introduction to latin ii (3 credits)
students then examine rationalism,  empiricism and conclude with kant’s critical philosophy.
this course, the fourth of four history of philosophy courses, is an  examination of the post-kantian philosophy focusing on selected major movements  of the 19th and 20th centuries, such as idealism, phenomenology,  existentialism, and british analytic and ordinary language philosophy.
through the close reading of primary sources  in their historical context and through a wide variety of other exercises,  students gain an appreciation for the major texts, themes and problems that  have shaped the western philosophical tradition.
the instructor links those theories of  morality with explicit assumptions regarding human nature.
students survey examples from the pentateuch, prophetic, historical and  wisdom texts, their forms, settings and theology.
prerequisite: ph253.
l141 - basic latin i (3 credits)
l142 - basic latin ii (3 credits) the students develop the necessary skills to read literature in latin.
issues raised  include the definitions of certainty and truth, the reliability of sense  knowledge, the way in which we know ourselves and others, as well as other  related issues raised by our authors.
contact: philosophy chair immaculate heart of mary  seminary rector john poling, ph.d. saint mary’s  university of minnesota 700 terrace heights #1416
this course is divided into four parts corresponding to the catechism of the catholic church: professing our faith, celebrating our faith, living our faith, and praying our faith.
methods encouraged by vatican ii’s dogmatic constitution on divine revelation are studied.
th115 - the mystery of salvation (3 credits) the christian bible leads to christ, the mystery of salvation.
this course is a survey of theories of knowledge that  span the western tradition from the greeks to the present day.
offered fall semester.
prerequisite: l141 or equivalent.
this survey incorporates an appreciation for some basic contemporary interpretive methods.
the course begins with a thorough examination of the foundations of natural  law ethics and consequentialist ethics.
central texts in the  course are saint thomas aquinas’ prima secundae and john stewart  mill’s utilitarianism.
students also begin to develop a facility with the various tools and terms with which philosophers in the western tradition have worked.
ph300 - moral theory (3 credits)
this course, the first of four sequential courses in the history of  philosophy, is a survey of greek philosophy from its origins in the thought of  presocratic poets and philosophers to its later development in the dialogues of  plato and writings of aristotle.
high school preparation comparative government &  politics; computer science; englishl iterature; european history; philosophy;  trigonometry; world history degree requirements the following courses are required for graduation + more a.  all of the following: ph102 - logic (3 credits) this course presents an introduction to contemporary symbolic logic as well  as to traditional deductive and inductive logic.
ph355 - history of modern philosophy: bacon-kant (4 credits) in this course, the third of four history of philosophy courses students  study the major philosophical movements of the early modern period beginning  with the rise of inductive natural science.
saint thomas aquinas is one of the central figures in the history of  western philosophy.
l102 - introduction to latin ii (3 credits)
ph345 - philosophy of the person (3 credits)
the students develop the necessary skills to read literature in latin.
ph254 - history of medieval philosophy: augustine-ockham (4  credits) in this course, the second of four history of philosophy courses, students  study the development of philosophy in the middle ages through its contact with  christianity.
this course examines critically the classic and contemporary concepts of being-in-the-world, its causes, its effects, and its modalities and relations.
ph358 - history of 19th and 20th century philosophy: hegel-wittgenstein (4 credits)
ph254 - history of medieval philosophy: augustine-ockham (4 credits)
this course critically examines some of the most influential conceptions of the human person (e.g., the platonic, the aristotelian-thomistic, the judeo-christian, the hobbesian and that of other modern thinkers).
offered spring semester.
issues raised include the definitions of certainty and truth, the reliability of sense knowledge, the way in which we know ourselves and others, as well as other related issues raised by our authors.
prerequisite: l101 or recommendation from the ihm  seminary rector.
the essentials of latin grammar as well as vocabulary and  idioms are presented for passive recognition, followed by translation and  sight-reading.
ph402 - senior thesis (3 credits) this course is taken in the second semester of the senior year and is an opportunity to work closely with a faculty member in the philosophy department on a written thesis.
th220 - introduction to the new testament (3 credits)
this major is specifically designed to prepare the student for the  requirements of such study.
the immaculate heart of mary (ihm)
ph253 - history of ancient philosophy: thales-aristotle (4  credits)
through the close reading of primary sources in their historical context and through a wide variety of other exercises, students gain an appreciation for the major texts, themes and problems that have shaped the western philosophical tradition.
b.  two additional philosophy courses.
one theology elective for more information
l142 - basic latin ii (3 credits)
it considers such fundamental issues as the existence and nature of the human soul; whether human beings are innately good, innately evil, both or neither; in what sense, if any, human beings are rational; and the nature and basis of human freedom.
readings may include hegel, kierkegaard, nietzsche, husserl, heidegger, james, foucault, wittgenstein, ryle, and john paul ii, among others.
this course, the first of four sequential courses in the history of philosophy, is a survey of greek philosophy from its origins in the thought of presocratic poets and philosophers to its later development in the dialogues of plato and writings of aristotle.
the  last few weeks are devoted to reading selections from various latin authors.
ph400 - metaphysics (3 credits) this course examines critically the classic and contemporary concepts of  being-in-the-world, its causes, its effects, and its modalities and relations.
43 credits why ihm seminary philosophy?
high school preparation comparative government & politics; computer science; englishl iterature; european history; philosophy; trigonometry; world history + more the following courses are required for graduation (from the 2011-13 catalog) a. all of the following: ph102 - logic (3 credits) this course presents an introduction to contemporary symbolic logic as well as to traditional deductive and inductive logic.
c. required seminary courses: (either l101 and l102 or l141 and l142)
the central epistemological theme of the course reflects the modern conviction that before other sciences may be studied with profit, the possibility and modes of human knowledge must be determined.
the instructor links those theories of morality with explicit assumptions regarding human nature.
ph400 - metaphysics (3 credits)
these credits and gpa not included in the major l101 - introduction to latin i (3 credits) this course is for students who would like to gain a good reading knowledge of latin in one term.
prerequisite: th112, th113, th114, or th115.
ph360 - epistemology (3 credits) epistemology is the study of how it is that humans come to know themselves and the world we inhabit.
readings  may include hegel, kierkegaard, nietzsche, husserl, heidegger, james, foucault,  wittgenstein, ryle, and john paul ii, among others.
while this course is  designed as an in-depth study of aquinas, it also serves as a preparation for  the future study of aquinas’s theology; accordingly, there is a decided  focus on developing a thomistic vocabulary.
the central  epistemological theme of the course reflects the modern conviction that before  other sciences may be studied with profit, the possibility and modes of human  knowledge must be determined.
the goals of this course are to examine the following themes and  philosophical problems: the relation of faith and reason, spirituality and  philosophy; human knowledge and human freedom; and philosophy as a principle of  integration within medieval culture.
th210 - introduction to the old testament (3 credits)