so why do adults seem to prefer to walk in straight lines instead?
by libby webber | 20 june 2011 i started writing a few months ago about our five senses, and i’m  ending with the sense of sight; it may be last
the scientific picture is still pretty murky with respect to whether and how much coffee is really good for you, but simply nothing that can help rectify a discombobulated mood like a fresh cup of java.
last » overseen by an international advisory board of distinguished academic faculty and mental health professionals with decades of clinical and research experience in the us, uk and europe, counsellingresource.com provides peer-reviewed mental health information you can trust.
it permeates our language and has a particular hold on our imagination.
page 2 of 22 « 1 2 3 4 5 ... 10 15 20 ...
walking the line: the joy of zigzag by libby webber | 20 july 2011
page 2 of 22 « 1 2 3 4 5 ... 10 15 20 ... »
so why do adults  seem to prefer to walk in straight lines instead?
defeating disorganization in one session by gordon shippey | 17  august 2011 here is the guidance i give my clients when they complain of confusion and  disorganization in their lives.
but it’s very far from least.
watch some children out for a walk and you’ll see a lot of meandering  to and fro as they make fascinating discoveries on all sides.
in my work as a therapist, i find that lying — to oneself and to  loved ones — is a major obstacle to change.
what do our kids know that  we’ve forgotten?
for many, the advice  “just tell the truth” misses the myriad causes of lying and the  skill set necessary to tell the truth even when the stakes are high.
terms of use | privacy policy | copyright © 2002-2012.
little did i know i’d be using the same lesson in my relationship with the newest member of the family.
it permeates  our language and has a particular hold on our imagination.
accredited by thehealth on the net foundation.
meeting valentino: a cautionary tale
but it’s very far from  least.
in my work as a therapist, i find that lying — to oneself and to loved ones — is a major obstacle to change.
the vision thing: seeing is believing
the many joys of java by dr george simon, phd | 25 may 2011 the scientific picture is still pretty murky with respect to whether and  how much coffee is really good for you, but simply nothing that can help  rectify a discombobulated mood like a fresh cup of java.
by gordon shippey | 31 may 2011 remember those cartoons where a character is exhorted towards good by an  angel on one shoulder while a tiny devil on the other shoulder tempts him or  her towards evil?
last » our channels
it turns out there are real motivational analogues to  shoulder-angels and shoulder-devils, and knowing the difference between the two  is not always so easy.
psychology and philosophy topics » mindful awareness » ‘mindful awareness’ at psychology, philosophy and real life , page 2 the following articles are related to ‘mindful awareness’ at psychology, philosophy and real life.
in therapy, we talk a lot about the importance of ‘meeting the client  where they are’; in other words, seeing them for who they are and what  they’re dealing with at that time, rather than who or where we think they  ‘should’ be.
remember those cartoons where a character is exhorted towards good by an angel on one shoulder while a tiny devil on the other shoulder tempts him or her towards evil?
in fact, the sense of sight is so powerful and all-encompassing that it  can actually detract from the subtle messages of our other senses.
i started writing a few months ago about our five senses, and i’m ending with the sense of sight; it may be last
little did i know i’d be using the same lesson  in my relationship with the newest member of the family.
here is the guidance i give my clients when they complain of confusion and disorganization in their lives.
in fact, the sense of sight is so powerful and all-encompassing that it can actually detract from the subtle messages of our other senses.
psychology, philosophy and real  life »
by libby webber | 8 june 2011
our material is not intended as a substitute for direct consultation with a qualified mental health professional.
devil on my shoulder
what do our kids know that we’ve forgotten?
watch some children out for a walk and you’ll see a lot of meandering to and fro as they make fascinating discoveries on all sides.
it turns out there are real motivational analogues to shoulder-angels and shoulder-devils, and knowing the difference between the two is not always so easy.
techniques for truth-telling by gordon shippey | 29 june 2011
the following articles are related to ‘mindful awareness’ at psychology, philosophy and real life.
this list is sorted chronologically, from newest back to earliest.
for many, the advice “just tell the truth” misses the myriad causes of lying and the skill set necessary to tell the truth even when the stakes are high.
in therapy, we talk a lot about the importance of ‘meeting the client where they are’; in other words, seeing them for who they are and what they’re dealing with at that time, rather than who or where we think they ‘should’ be.