october 10 integrating sciences: cognitive psychology and cognitive science reading: flanagan, chapter 6, p. 224 on.
methods and theories in the experimental analysis of behavior.
how moral psychology changes moral theory.
*gilligan, c. and attanucci, j. (1988).
the degree of  participation can raise or lower the final grade.
the magical number seven, plus or minus two.
you are strongly encouraged to read some of these, especially those relevant to a paper topic you choose.
a new formula for behaviorism.
two moral orientations.
remarques sur le siége de la faculté du  langage articulé, suivies d'une observations d'aphémie (perte de  la parole)
lastly, we will consider recent claims that psychological results  are relevant to issues in ethics.
the imagery debate: analogue media versus tacit  knowledge.
in j. k. foster and m. jelicic (eds.)memory: systems, processes, or  function?
remarques sur le siége de la faculté du langage articulé, suivies d'une observations d'aphémie (perte de la parole)
for undergraduates, each of these  papers should be approximately 5 pages in length and will count equally.
november 7 memory: psychological decomposition of memoryforgetting, autobiographical memories, and emotion
john deans memory: a case study.
psychological review, 14, 61-91.
september 26 kuhns account of normal and revolutionary science and alternatives to the covering law model of explanation reading: bechtel, chapter 4 *cartwright, n. (1981).
for undergraduates, each of these papers should be approximately 5 pages in length and will count equally.
in r. warner and t. szubka (eds.), the mind-body problem (pp.
lastly, we will consider recent claims that psychological results are relevant to issues in ethics.
in u. neisser  (ed.),memory observed.
philosophy of science: an overview for cognitive science.
oxford: oxford university press.
nous, 9, 3-10. october 3
in c.  gilligan, j. v. ward, and j. m. taylor,mapping the moral domain.
creating false memories: remembering words not presented in lists.
mental rotation of  three-dimensional objects.
the principles of psychology.
psychological review, 88, 16-45.
in s. m. kosslyn and d. n. osherson  (eds.).visual cognition.
mccauley's demand for a  co-level competitor.
*bechtel, w., abrahamsen, a. and graham, g. (1998).
new york: free press september 19
complex systems and reduction: not incompatible.
the province of functional psychology.
english  translation of broca's remarks on the seat of the faculty of articulated  language, following an observation of aphemia (loss of speech) by c. d.  green.
the life of cognitive  science, pp.
to provide focus for  our discussion of cognitive psychology, we will examine in fair detail research  on memory.
methods and theories in the experimental analysis  of behavior.
you are required to make one presentation to the class.
this will generally be based on one of the optional readings listed on the syllabus or on other material related to the topic of a given class.
september 5 creating a discipline: psychology in the 19th century broca, paul (1861b).
philosophy of psychology phil 415 professor: william bechtelfall 2000 a. course description this course will focus on experimental psychology from the perspective of a philosopher of science.
the life of cognitive  science.
november 7  memory: psychological decomposition of memory–forgetting,  autobiographical memories, and emotion reading: schacter, chapters 3 and 7 *brown, r. and kulik, j. (1982).
accordingly, we will focus on research programs in experimental psychology, especially behaviorist and cognitivist research.
the following schedule is tentative, and may need to be modified during the  semester.
outlines of psychology (charles hubbard  judd, trans.).
bulletin de la société anatomique, 6, 330-357.
(oxford: blackwell, 1994).
components of memory.
october 24 psychology and the brain: various conceptions of reduction reading: bechtel, chapters 5 and 6 *churchland, p. m. and churchland, p. s. (1990):
a companion to cognitive science.
journal of experimental psychology: learning, memory, and cognition, 21, 803-814.
psychology as the behaviorist views it.
reconstruction of automobile  destruction.
artificial intelligence.
flanagan, o. (1991).
november 21  memory:
in l. may,  m. friedman, and a. clark (eds.),mind and morals: essays on ethics and  cognitive science.
the cognitive revolution in psychology reading: flanagan, chapters 2 and 6 to p. 224 *miller, g. a. (1956).
john dean’s memory: a case study.
mccauley's demand for a co-level competitor.
in w. bechtel and g. graham  (eds.)a companion to cognitive science.
(details for the management of this component of the course  will be presented later.)
(originally published 1885).
memory: a contribution to experimental  psychology (henry a. ruger & clara e. bussenius, trans.).
recommended topics  for these papers will be presented in class.
*langendoen, d. t. (1998).
145-173 *kohlberg, l. (1968).
psychological review, 50, 273-291.
recommended topics for these papers will be presented in class.
*bechtel, w. (in press).
october 31  memory: characterizing the phenomenon–distinguishing  remembering from knowing, encoding from retrieval reading: schacter, chapters 1 and 2 *roediger, h. l. and goff, l. m. (1998).
fechner, gustav theodor (1860).
october 24  psychology and the brain: various conceptions of reduction reading: bechtel, chapters 5 and 6 *churchland, p. m. and churchland, p. s. (1990): intertheoretic reduction:  a neuroscientist’s field guide.
november 14  memory: neuropsychological decomposition of memory--memory  systems versus information processing operations reading: schacter, chapters 5 and 6 *tulving, e. (1999).
oxford: basil blackwell.
aspects of scientific explanation, excerpts from part 1.
they may be checked out for photocopying.
students will be expected both to understand the basic tenets of these traditions and to engage in critical evaluation of their scientific characteristics.
in u. neisser (ed.),memory observed.
hillsdale, nj: erlbaum.
new york: basic books d. schedule of class meetings and assigned readings
pavlov, ivan p. (1927).
written work for the course will consist of three papers, based primarily on the assigned readings, optional readings, and class discussion.
behaviorism reading: flanagan, chapter 4 angell, james rowland.
psychological review, 29, 44-53.
in r. mccauley (ed.), the churchlands and their critics (pp. 17-47) (oxford: blackwell, 1996).
second paper due november 28 psychology and ethics: the program of kohlberg and beyond reading: flanagan, chapter 5, esp.
b. course requirements students are required to read the assigned materials, attend class  regularly, and participate actively in the class discussions.
bechtel, w. (in press) representations: from neural systems to cognitive systems.
a naturalized philosophy of science (the sort of philosophy of science emphasized in this class) addresses these questions in part by examining the science in question.
searching for memory: the brain, the mind, and the past.
*watson, j. b. (1913).
recharacterizing the phenomenon--controversies over false memories reading: schacter, chapters 4 and 9 *neisser, u. (1982).
students will be expected both  to understand the basic tenets of these traditions and to engage in critical  evaluation of their scientific characteristics.
a naturalized  philosophy of science (the sort of philosophy of science emphasized in this  class) addresses these questions in part by examining the science in question.
second paper due november 28  psychology and ethics: the program of kohlberg and beyond reading: flanagan, chapter 5, esp.
in r. mccauley (ed.), the churchlands and their critics  (pp. 17-47) (oxford: blackwell, 1996).
nous, 9, 3-10. october 3  the cognitive revolution in psychology reading: flanagan, chapters 2 and 6 to p. 224 *miller, g. a. (1956).
mental rotation of three-dimensional objects.
the life of cognitive science.
they may be checked out for  photocopying.
in c. gilligan, j. v. ward, and j. m. taylor,mapping the moral domain.
philosophy of science: an overview for cognitive  science.
*loftus, e. f. and palmer, j. c. (1982).
components of  memory.
*roediger, h. l., buckner, r. l. and mcdermott, k. b. (1999).
september 12  logical positivism and its critics reading: bechtel, chapters 2 and 3 *hempel, c. g. (1965).
memory: what are the important questions?
the imagery debate: analogue media versus tacit knowledge.
the reality of causes in a world of instrumental  laws.
in u.  neisser (ed.),memory observed.
reading: schacter, chapters 3 and 7 *brown, r. and kulik, j. (1982).
in particular, if the  web-based discussion of this course becomes operational during the semester,  students will be required to post both a question based on the readings and a  discussion comment.
psychological review, 20, 158-177.
searching for memory: the brain, the mind, and  the past.
for graduate students the first two papers should be approximately 5 pages in length, while the final paper should be approximately 10 pages in length.
james, william. (1890).
cambridge, ma: mit press. schacter, d. l. (1996).
ebbinghaus, hermann. (1913).
the science of the mind.
if you are taking this course pass/fail, it is necessary to earn the  equivalent of a c- to receive a pass.
science, 171, 791-803.
*appelbaum, i. (1998).
*kosslyn, s. (1995).
september 26  kuhn’s account of normal and revolutionary science and  alternatives to the covering law model of explanation reading: bechtel, chapter 4 *cartwright, n. (1981).
if possible, please turn your papers in in an electronic format, sending them by email attachment to bill@twinearth.wustl.edu.
*skinner, b. f. (1984).
memory: a contribution to experimental psychology (henry a. ruger & clara e. bussenius, trans.).
san francisco: freeman.
october 31 memory: characterizing the phenomenondistinguishing remembering from knowing, encoding from retrieval reading: schacter, chapters 1 and 2 *roediger, h. l. and goff, l. m. (1998).
major attention will be given  to the establishment of the information processing tradition in cognitive  psychology and the relevance of issues dealt with in that tradition to  philosophical questions, especially the role of representations as explanatory  posits and their relation to underlying neural activity.
the following schedule is tentative, and may need to be modified during the semester.
this will generally  be based on one of the optional readings listed on the syllabus or on other  material related to the topic of a given class.
september 5     creating a discipline: psychology in  the 19th century broca, paul (1861b).
written work for the  course will consist of three papers, based primarily on the assigned readings,  optional readings, and class discussion.
psychological review, 63, 81-97.
behavioral and brain sciences, 7, 511-523 tolman, edward c. (1922).
in w. bechtel and g.  graham (eds.)a companion to cognitive science.
explanatory pluralism and the co_evolution of theories of science.
new york: free press september 19  behaviorism reading: flanagan, chapter 4 angell, james rowland.
october 10  integrating sciences: cognitive psychology and cognitive science reading: flanagan, chapter 6, p. 224 on.
conditioned reflexes: an investigation of the  physiological activity of the cerebral cortex (g. v. anrep, trans.).
in w. bechtel and g. graham (eds.)
reconstruction of automobile destruction.
december 5  psychology and ethics: sociobiology and evolutionary psychology reading: flanagan, chapter 7
psychology today , 2, 4, 24-30.
in r. warner and t. szubka (eds.), the  mind-body problem (pp.
cambridge, ma: mit press.
*barsalou, l. (1999).
some of the readings below are marked with an asterisk and are recommended, not required.
in u. neisser (ed.), memory observed.
copies of them will be available in the philosophy department office.
in c. g. hempel,aspects of scientific explanation and other essays  in the philosophy of science.
you are strongly encouraged to read some of these,  especially those relevant to a paper topic you choose.
the life of cognitive science, pp.
in w. bechtel, p. mandik, j. mundale, and r. s. stufflebeam, philosophy and the neurosciences: a reader.
in l. may, m. friedman, and a. clark (eds.),mind and morals: essays on ethics and cognitive science.
office: busch 225 tuesdays,  7-10 pm telephone: 935-6873 busch 220 email: bill@twinearth.wustl.edu  office hours: tw 3:00-4:00 a. course description this course will focus on experimental psychology from the perspective of a  philosopher of science.
accordingly, we will focus on research programs in experimental psychology,  especially behaviorist and cognitivist research.
in w. bechtel and g. graham (eds.)a companion  to cognitive science.
in r. mccauley (ed.), the churchlands and their critics  (pp. 222-231) (oxford: blackwell, 1996).
aspects of scientific explanation, excerpts from  part 1.
outlines of psychology (charles hubbard judd, trans.).
november 14 memory: neuropsychological decomposition of memory--memory systems versus information processing operations reading: schacter, chapters 5 and 6 *tulving, e. (1999).
in j. k. foster and m. jelicic (eds.)memory: systems, processes, or function?
cambridge, ma: mit  press. schacter, d. l. (1996).
journal of experimental psychology:  learning, memory, and cognition, 21, 803-814.
tolman, edward, c. (1948).
behavioral and brain sciences 22, 577-609 *shepard, r. n. and metzler, j. (1971).
the problem of intervening variables in molar behavior  theory.
in particular, if the web-based discussion of this course becomes operational during the semester, students will be required to post both a question based on the readings and a discussion comment.
*pylyshyn, z. w. (1981).
east lansing, mi, philosophy of science association.
c. texts bechtel, w. (1988).
this presentation plus overall  class participation will count for 25% of your grade.
behavioral and  brain sciences 22, 577-609 *shepard, r. n. and metzler, j. (1971).
explanatory pluralism and the co_evolution of  theories of science.
the  last paper will count somewhat more than the shorter papers.
b. course requirements students are required to read the assigned materials, attend class regularly, and participate actively in the class discussions.
the child as moral philosopher.
*mccauley, r. (1996):
english translation of broca's remarks on the seat of the faculty of articulated language, following an observation of aphemia (loss of speech) by c. d. green.
in w. bechtel and g. graham (eds.)a companion to cognitive science.
if possible, please turn your  papers in in an electronic format, sending them by email attachment to bill@twinearth.wustl.edu.
intertheoretic reduction: a neuroscientists field guide.
elements of psychophysics, sections vii ("measurement of sensation") and xiv ("the fundamental formula and the measurement formula") (trans. by herbert s. langfeld, first appearing in b. rand (d.) (1912),the classical psychologists).
for  graduate students the first two papers should be approximately 5 pages in  length, while the final paper should be approximately 10 pages in length.
elements of psychophysics, sections  vii ("measurement of sensation") and xiv ("the fundamental  formula and the measurement formula") (trans. by herbert s. langfeld,  first appearing in b. rand (d.) (1912),the classical psychologists).
the last paper will count somewhat more than the shorter papers.
cognitive maps  in rats and men.
if you are taking this course pass/fail, it is necessary to earn the equivalent of a c- to receive a pass.
recharacterizing the phenomenon--controversies over  false memories reading: schacter, chapters 4 and 9 *neisser, u. (1982).
east lansing,  mi, philosophy of science association.
in c. g. hempel,aspects of scientific explanation and other essays in the philosophy of science.
causation as explanation.
perceptual symbol systems.
in s. m. kosslyn and d. n. osherson (eds.).visual cognition.
cognitive maps in rats and men.
insensitivity to future consequences following damage to human prefrontal cortex.
creating false memories:  remembering words not presented in lists.
in r. mccauley (ed.), the churchlands and their critics (pp. 222-231) (oxford: blackwell, 1996).
(details for the management of this component of the course will be presented later.)
*johnson, m. (1996).
to provide focus for our discussion of cognitive psychology, we will examine in fair detail research on memory.
cambridge, ma: mit press *bechara, a. damasio, a. r., damasio, h., anderson, s. w. (1994).
in j. k.  foster and m. jelicic (eds.)memory: systems, processes, or function?
*scriven, m. (1975).
a  companion to cognitive science.
psychological review, 55(4), 189-208.
some of the readings below are marked with an asterisk and are  recommended, not required.
september 12 logical positivism and its critics reading: bechtel, chapters 2 and 3 *hempel, c. g. (1965).
first paper due october 17 representations: symbolic, visual, and distributed reading: billman, d. (1998).
study of memory: processes and systems.
psychological  review, 29, 44-53.
first paper due october 17  representations: symbolic, visual, and distributed reading: billman, d. (1998).
bechtel, w. (in press) representations: from neural systems to cognitive  systems.
in p. asquith and r. giere (eds.)psa 1980, volume 2.
in w. bechtel and g. graham (eds.)a companion to cognitive science .
major attention will be given to the establishment of the information processing tradition in cognitive psychology and the relevance of issues dealt with in that tradition to philosophical questions, especially the role of representations as explanatory posits and their relation to underlying neural activity.
*churchland, p. m. and churchland, p. s. (1996):
philosophy of science addresses such questions as (1) what is a science, (2) what is it to explain a phenomenon, (3) how do sciences change over time, and (4) what relations hold between sciences.
the degree of participation can raise or lower the final grade.
conditioned reflexes: an investigation of the physiological activity of the cerebral cortex (g. v. anrep, trans.).
december 5 psychology and ethics: sociobiology and evolutionary psychology reading: flanagan, chapter 7 december 12 final paper due
(originally  published 1885).
the problem of intervening variables in molar behavior theory.
the reality of causes in a world of instrumental laws.
philosophy of science addresses such questions as (1)  what is a science, (2) what is it to explain a phenomenon, (3) how do sciences  change over time, and (4) what relations hold between sciences.
insensitivity to future consequences following damage to human prefrontal  cortex.
*roediger, h. l. and mcdermott, k. b. (1995).
copies of them will be  available in the philosophy department office.
this presentation plus overall class participation will count for 25% of your grade.
*neisser, u. (1982).