see also: ● suicide facts from national strategy for suicide prevention (nssp).
the chinese philosophy page includes links to religion and rebellion in china, shamanism in chinese culture, and the chinese philosophical etext archive based at wesleyan university.
social justice - should the rich help the poor?
this site is highly recommended for student research as it provides some of the best links to philosophy resources currently available online.
philosophy around the web.
what is your emotional intelligence?
body image - life is a beauty pageant: "our individual experiences also affect how we feel about our bodies.
modern western philosophy online ebooks from world wide school.org library.
how do we nurture a positive body image ..."
directory of philosophers a-z. individual philosophers - alphabetical index of biographies of 188 philosophers.
happiness from wikipedia, the free encyclopedia.
aura color quiz from aura colors by pamela oslie.
links to websites on: aesthetics, general resources,  american indian philosophy, humanism, ancient greek philosophy, objectivism,  chinese philosophy, philosophers, deconstruction, political theory,  dictionaries & encyclopedias, pragmatism, eastern philosophy, secularism,  ethics, stoics, existentialism, transcendentalism, futurism, utopias.
a developing dynamic encyclopedia with each  entry maintained and kept up to date by an expert or group of experts.
test  yourself for hidden biases, and other tests.
contents include: euthanasia facts, legal articles, usa articles, world articles.
lists best of philosophy sites on the www: philosophy directories, philosophy databases, and specific philosophy resources.
includes: confucianism, taoism, the book of changes, chinese buddhism, tibetan buddhism, christianity, judaism.
optical illusions online exhibits from exploratorium: museum of science,  art and human perception, san francisco, ca.
discover your personality type.
statisticss from cdc - national center for injury prevention and control.
by dr. ezekiel emanuel, director of the clinical bioethics department at the u.s. national institutes of health.
includes a guide to the world of occult and magic with  concise explanations of related names and symbols, and a tarot card glossary.
book excerpt from our bodies, ourselves : a new edition for a new era.
includesbody image web links.
contents of existential primer: basic existentialism, famous names (biographies of fyodor dostoevsky, søren kierkegaard, friedrich nietzsche, georg w.f. hegel, edmund husserl, martin heidegger, franz kafka, jean-paul sartre, simone de beauvoir, maurice merleau-ponty, albert camus, and karl jaspers), definitions, existential ethics, shared values, religion & faith, the individual, divisions in thought, metaphysicians, politicians, existentialism in context, philosophical evolution, world history, and existential resources.
time travel - is time travel physically or logically possible?
see also visual  neuroscience: optical illusions - primer in pdf, 2 pages">by professor  michael bach, ph.d. and dr. charlotte m. poloschek, department of  ophthalmology, university of freiburg, germany.
common aspects and personality traits of the various aura colors: reds, oranges, magentas, yellows, abstract tan, environmental tan, logical tan, sensitive tan, greens, crystal, blues, violets, lavenders, indigos and red overlay.
includes color blindness images - part of the series of plates designed as a test for colour-deficiency by shinobu ishihara, m.d. optical illusions - niehs kids page.
features include "what's new" for the  latest additions of philosophy links, and "gem of the web" for the  best of the best philosophy sites.
include works by francis bacon, henry david thoreau, g. k. chesterton, samuel johnson, robert louis stevenson.
chinese signs, your chinese personality profile, compatibility calculator, your chinese element, history of chinese astrology, feng shui, i ching , chinese calendar.
indexing the web for the best in psychology.
stanford encyclopedia of philosophy.
glossaries of astrology and astronomy terms with information about planets, zodiac signs and other less known astrological data.
the image of "perfection" we see in the media excludes women with disabilities."
article is against legalization of physician-assisted suicide and voluntary euthanasia.
fun illusions for children from  national institute of environmental health sciences.
articles organized into  categories: news and reports, feature articles, essays, conference reports,  open debate, primers (short articles set out the basics, e.g. snapshots of  philosophers), reviews.
categorized by history,  subject and author.
● refuse to suffer from lollie dot com of tahlequah, ok.
spinning disks - java-powered pattern, color wheels, and moiré pattern generator.
study guides on: developmental psychology,  personality psychology, abnormal psychology, cognitive psychology, and  neuropsychology.
features thousands of annotated links, text resources and community services for students and teachers of philosophy.
the internet encyclopedia of philosophy choose a letter to search from  table of contents a-z. also searchable by timeline, philosophy text collection,  or key words.
cultural relativism - are moral values relative or absolute?
search table of contents a to z of philosophers, theories, and terms.
see alsowhat is feng shui?
philosophy by region,  philosophy by topic, philosophy institutions, individual philosophers (a-z),  directory of philosophers (a-z), philosophy journals (electronic and paper  versions), and other links.
click on any link for more information on birthstones, history, photos, properties, etc. chinese astrology.
study guides on: developmental psychology, personality psychology, abnormal psychology, cognitive psychology, and neuropsychology.
a brief guide to philosophy in the form of a dictionary.
improve your memory techniques from mind tools.
tests include: explore your memory, art and personality, personality type, spot the fake smile, face perception, million, morals, self-control, perfectionism, careers, and others.
●  how to pronounce "thiaoouba".
individual philosophers - chronological index : ancient (to 450 ad), mediæval (450-1450 ad), renaissance (1450-1600), early modern (1600-1800), nineteenth century, and twentieth century philosophers.
ask a philosopher from pathways to philosophy, with philosophical questions and answers.
extraterrestrial life - are we alone in the universe?
133.5 astrology, horoscopes, zodiac astrology: science or superstition?
optical illusions to perfection from illusionworks.com.
memory loss with aging: what's normal, what's not from familydoctor.org.
china: philosophy and religion.
funny, scary and amazing magic to fool your eyes.
include apology, phaedo, republic,  etc.
links to taoism information: introductions to taoism, chinese language and culture, tao te ching, i ching, the sun-tzu art of war, alchemy and feng shui, buddhism and confucianism, chinese philosophy, taoism and martial arts, taoism and modernity.
see also aristotle texts - works by aristotle, quotations by artistotle, aristotle:  works, philosophy - theories and writings of the philosopher aristotle, and  overcome your fear of ancient philosophy.
artificial intelligence - could a computer have a mind?
topics covered: bioethics for beginners, cloning and genetics, er (tv drama) bioethics, assisted suicide, links to journal articles.
the law of karma teaches that responsibility for unskillful actions is born by the person who commits them.
what are some other causes of memory problems?
the media lies: "its hard to imagine a world where idealized female imagery is not plastered everywhere. ...
personality tests and tools.
personality, body image, self-esteem, self-acceptance, self-perception,  self-confidence, self-consciousness, self-realization 158 happiness 174  bioethics, medical ethics, (biological ethics), (biology - ethics), (biomedical  ethics), (life sciences ethics), (moral issues) 179.7 euthanasia, right to  die, suicide 181 chinese philosophy, hindu philosophy 100 philosophy american philosophy study guide by ralph dumain.
should you feel dizzy or unwell, immediately cover one eye with your hand and leave the page.
resourceful philosophy  dictionaries of the most important terms and concepts used by kant and other  philosophers throughout the ages.
criss angel cell phone in beer bottle.
● facts for families: teen suicide.
does diversity make us unhappy?
the happiness formula site also includes: is there a happiness formula?
chinese signs, your chinese personality profile,  compatibility calculator, your chinese element, history of chinese astrology,  feng shui, i ching , chinese calendar.
if you find a man's face among the coffee beans in 3 seconds or less, the right half of your brain may be more well developed than most.
ancient (to 450 ad), mediæval (450-1450 ad), renaissance (1450-1600),  early modern (1600-1800), nineteenth century, and twentieth century  philosophers.
ancient, medieval & oriental philosophy online ebooks from world wide school.org library.
surveys and psychology tests from bbc science & nature.
you have 30 minutes to answer 30 questions.
● how to pronounce "thiaoouba".
list of fiction, non-fiction, and media (video or dvd) titles relating to body image chosen for middle and high school students.
a selection of psychology dictionaries and glossaries including dream symbols, phobia, and glossary of significant concepts in parental acceptance-rejection theory.
see also visual neuroscience: optical illusions - primer in pdf, 2 pages">by professor michael bach, ph.d. and dr. charlotte m. poloschek, department of ophthalmology, university of freiburg, germany.
this site is committed to the belief that the direct killing of another person is wrong.
fun illusions for children from national institute of environmental health sciences.
topics include: how does the brain store information?
societal theories of happiness: western society.
see also aristotle texts - works by aristotle, quotations by artistotle, aristotle: works, philosophy - theories and writings of the philosopher aristotle, and overcome your fear of ancient philosophy.
includes links to feng shui faq, fengshui gate: essays on the origin of feng shui, feng shui society: practical application of feng shui, pronunciation of feng shui, feng shui strands, feng shui consultations, and a feng shui glossary.
epistemelinks.com includes thousands of sorted links to philosophy  resources on the internet.
besides united states, iats are available in english for australia, canada, india, south africa, and united kingdom.
related links include: media hype - body image and the media, stress and body image, relationships and body image, men and body image, smoking - dying to be thin, body weight - a new way of thinking, child obesity, teen power... confidence, energy and dreams, adults - strengthening self-esteem, building self-esteem in your children, fostering healthy body image in your children & teens, and more.
authentic happiness: using the new positive psychology.
check out the "gems archive" for past gems.
directory of philosophers a-z. individual philosophers - alphabetical index  of biographies of 188 philosophers.
available also in chinese, deutsch, español (mexico), français (canada, france, switzerland), hebrew (israel), italiano, japanese, korean (south korea), nederlands, polski, româna, and türkçe.
how to see and read the aura from thiaoouba.com.
links to websites on: aesthetics, general resources, american indian philosophy, humanism, ancient greek philosophy, objectivism, chinese philosophy, philosophers, deconstruction, political theory, dictionaries & encyclopedias, pragmatism, eastern philosophy, secularism, ethics, stoics, existentialism, transcendentalism, futurism, utopias.
test topics include: age iat, gender iat, race iat, countries iat, weight iat.
a selection of the most popular optical illusions.
memory loss: learn the basics from aetna intelihealth.
how does aging change the brain?
hundreds of prejudice-related bibliographies, links to books, research journals, magazines, e-zines, newsletters, special reports, articles, essays, and more.
an act of mercy or murder?
dr. martin seligman, university of pennsylvania, is the founder of positive psychology, a new branch of psychology which focuses on the empirical study of such things as positive emotions, strengths-based character, and healthy institutions.
akiyoshi's illusion pages by professor akiyoshi kitaoka, department of psychology, ritsumeikan university, kyoto, japan.
happiness test - test your happiness from bbc news.
understanding prejudice.
152.4 attitude (psychology), emotions, prejudices, (prejudice), (discrimination) 153.1 memory, psychology of learning, (thought and thinking), (intellect),  (mind), (understanding) 153.93 intelligence tests, (iq tests) 155.2
it contains everything you have learnt."
memory improvement tools.
from peel public health.
tour of the planets from adze mixxe.
142 existentialsm, (philosophers, modern) existentialism: an introduction.
the law of karma: how it works.
glossaries of astrology and  astronomy terms with information about planets, zodiac signs and other less  known astrological data.
129 reincarnation, (rebirth) karma - meaning and definition.
reincarnation in world religions, past-life recall as proof for reincarnation, reincarnation and cosmic justice, reincarnation and christianity.
reincarnation: definition, reimbodiment is universal, do family members reincarnate together?
the overriding factor, born again and again and again:  reincarnation in christianity, of reincarnation - the ocean of theosophy.
types of isms: tradition, movement, school, doctrine, principle,  idea, theory, system, approach.
133 aura, (color - psychic aspects), (color - therapeutic use), typology  (psychology) -
features include "what's new" for the latest additions of philosophy links, and "gem of the web" for the best of the best philosophy sites.
personality test center.
bodypositive® boosting body image at any weight.
exercises and demonstrations include slide  tour of prejudice, implicit association test (race test, gender test) -
bioethicsweb offers free access to a searchable catalogue of internet sites and resources covering biomedical ethics.
an excellent site loaded with philosophy resources bydr.
this site is highly recommended for student research as it provides  some of the best links to philosophy resources currently available online.
a developing dynamic encyclopedia with each entry maintained and kept up to date by an expert or group of experts.
in our time's philosophy resource from bbc radio.
happiness quiz: test your emotional intelligence quotient what makes us happy?
contents include: a popular model of memory; forgetting; source memory; amnesia and implicit memory; semantic, procedural, and episodic memory; accuracy of memory; how does memory work?
"your memory is your brain's filing system.
how does alzheimer's disease change memory? searching for memory: the brain, the mind, and the past by daniel schacter - book review by bob carroll.
categories includearticles (wide variety of topics, a-z),  discussion (anonymous forum, over 95 topics),psychology resources on the web,  psychtoon (psychological humor of cartoonists), and others.
positive effect study.
laws, oregon's new law, the act in full, court opinions - ny & wa.
features thousands of annotated links, text resources and  community services for students and teachers of philosophy.
including theological and philosophical biography and dictionary, dictionary of philosophy of mind, kant glossary, glossary of kant's technical terms.
exercises and demonstrations include slide tour of prejudice, implicit association test (race test, gender test) -
contents include: general guides includes philosophy guides in different languages philosophers and philosophies - biographies of major philosophers philosophical topics philosophy dictionaries and glossaries philosophy quotations philosophy miscellany - humor, news, philosophy for children, portraits, timelines, and more.
the law of karma teaches that responsibility for unskillful actions is born  by the person who commits them.
if we have experienced violence or abuse, we may feel unsafe in our bodies.
ten of the most frequently asked questions about the nature of the universe and our place in it: tpm online.
search table of contents a to z of  philosophers, theories, and terms.
optical illusions etc.
register for free and try scientifically tested questionnaires online.
study guides, outlines,  summaries, and commentary on aristotelian and platonic philosophy.
archive includes: color  illusions, image flips, hidden pictures, weird lines, strange circles,  impossible objects, appearing and disappearing objects, word games and riddles.
test topics include: age iat, gender iat, race  iat, countries iat, weight iat.
if you find a man's face  among the coffee beans in 3 seconds or less, the right half of your brain may  be more well developed than most.
epistemelinks.com includes thousands of sorted links to philosophy resources on the internet.
his research has demonstrated that it is possible to be happier regardless of ones circumstances.
optical illusions presented by colorcube.com.
page answers some common questions about astrology: how does astrology work?
whatever you do to others - will be done to you, in this or any future incarnation of your soul.
mystical (religious, spiritual, and mythological) view.
detailed info on chinese horoscope, e.g. metal rat 1900, 1960, water rat 1912, 1972, wood rat 1924, 1984, fire rat 1936, 1996, earth rat 1948, 2008.
birthstones, zodiac stones and birthstone colors.
astro compatibility, weekly, monthly and yearly horoscopes, chinese horoscopes, about planets, free sample personal astrology profile, and more.
suicide in the united states.
from science museum.org.uk.
test yourself for hidden biases, and other tests.
very brief notes on  philosophers of the ancient world, medieval and renaissance, enlightenment,  nineteenth century, twentieth century.
what goes around comes around.
common aspects and personality traits of the various aura colors: reds,  oranges, magentas, yellows, abstract tan, environmental tan, logical tan,  sensitive tan, greens, crystal, blues, violets, lavenders, indigos and red  overlay.
suicide from wikipedia, the free encyclopedia.
whatever you do to others - will be done to  you, in this or any future incarnation of your soul.
miscellanea aura color quiz from aura colors by pamela oslie.
astro compatibility, weekly, monthly and yearly  horoscopes, chinese horoscopes, about planets, free sample personal astrology  profile, and more.
go to demonstrations and try an implicit association test  (iat) to measure your attitudes.
the internet encyclopedia of philosophy choose a letter to search from table of contents a-z. also searchable by timeline, philosophy text collection, or key words.
the controversy rages on as laws spring up legalizing doctor-assisted suicide, from aish.com.
laws concerning euthanasia.
suicide prevention from national institute of mental health (nimh).
reincarnation: its meaning and consequences.
optical illusion from wikipedia, the free encyclopedia.
warning: this page contains some works of "anomalous motion illusion", which might make sensitive observers dizzy or sick.
click on any link for more information on birthstones, history,  photos, properties, etc. chinese astrology.
a variety of fun personality tests that provide analysis and advice by interpreting the user's answers to various questions and events.
articles organized into categories: news and reports, feature articles, essays, conference reports, open debate, primers (short articles set out the basics, e.g. snapshots of philosophers), reviews.
categorized by history, subject and author.
including theological and philosophical  biography and dictionary, dictionary of philosophy of mind, kant glossary,  glossary of kant's technical terms.
contents of existential primer: basic  existentialism, famous names (biographies of fyodor dostoevsky, søren  kierkegaard, friedrich nietzsche, georg w.f. hegel, edmund husserl, martin  heidegger, franz kafka, jean-paul sartre, simone de beauvoir, maurice  merleau-ponty, albert camus, and karl jaspers), definitions, existential  ethics, shared values, religion & faith, the individual, divisions in  thought, metaphysicians, politicians, existentialism in context, philosophical  evolution, world history, and existential resources.
suicide statistics and mythology.
compiled by mary hofmann, school library journal.
"memory is the retention of, and ability to recall, information, personal experiences, and procedures (skills and habits).
include works by francis bacon, henry david thoreau, g. k. chesterton, samuel  johnson, robert louis stevenson.
very brief notes on philosophers of the ancient world, medieval and renaissance, enlightenment, nineteenth century, twentieth century.
issue: "hidden" or "repressed" memories of child abuse or child sexual abuse.
ancient, medieval & oriental philosophy online ebooks from world wide  school.org library.
a touch of grey - age discriminiation.
branches of philosophy: metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, aesthetics, and  politices.
includes a guide to the world of occult and magic with concise explanations of related names and symbols, and a tarot card glossary.
archive includes: color illusions, image flips, hidden pictures, weird lines, strange circles, impossible objects, appearing and disappearing objects, word games and riddles.
page answers some common questions  about astrology: how does astrology work?
tests include:  explore your memory, art and personality, personality type, spot the fake  smile, face perception, million, morals, self-control, perfectionism, careers,  and others.
buddhanet basic buddhism guide.
includes your sun sign, celebrity  horoscopes.
the overriding factor, born again and again and again: reincarnation in christianity, of reincarnation - the ocean of theosophy.
is it more than  sun signs?
spark notes: psychology.
available also in chinese, deutsch, español (mexico), français  (canada, france, switzerland), hebrew (israel), italiano, japanese, korean  (south korea), nederlands, polski, româna, and türkçe.
medical ethics from american medical association (ama).
ask a philosopher from pathways to philosophy, with philosophical questions  and answers.
branches of philosophy: metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, aesthetics, and politices.
modern and traditional birthstones.
memory loss from medlineplus medical encyclopedia.
table of contents includesa bodypositive approach, why weight neutrality?
from eric weisstein's world of biography.
feng shui as it relates to career, children, education, fame, family, health, love, mentors, networking, wealth, plus astrology, colors, feng shui almanac, celebrity, tip of the month, as well as feng shui around the world: feng shui australia, brunei, hawaii, indonesia, india, japan, malaysia, mexico, new zealand, singapore, spain, uk and usa.
a selection of psychology  dictionaries and glossaries including dream symbols, phobia, and glossary of  significant concepts in parental acceptance-rejection theory.
from science & pseudoscience review in mental health -- resource archive hosted by the scientific review of mental health practice (srmhp).
this test designed by psychologist professor ed diener from the university of illinois, takes just a minute to complete.
psychologists say it is possible to measure your happiness.
should you feel dizzy or unwell, immediately cover one  eye with your hand and leave the page.
the ten big questions from pathways to philosophy.
optical illusions online exhibits from exploratorium: museum of science, art and human perception, san francisco, ca.
topics covered include: daily amnesia, dream amnesia, limited amnesia, effects of alcohol, brain injuries and physical or psychological traumas on memory, repressed memories, memory distortion, memory in children, hypnosis and memory, emotions in memory, flashbacks (deja vu), photographic memory, and more.
includes color blindness  images - part of the series of plates designed as a test for colour-deficiency  by shinobu ishihara, m.d. optical illusions - niehs kids page.
you can also be any size and be vulnerable to the assumptions made by the public about you based on your body's appearance ..." and much more.
euthanasia from wikipedia, the free encylopedia.
include: how to... learn a foreign language, how to... remember information for exams, how to... remember people's names, how to... remember lists and long numbers, and more.
reincarnation in world  religions, past-life recall as proof for reincarnation, reincarnation and  cosmic justice, reincarnation and christianity.
modern and traditional  birthstones.
● prevalence and incidence of suicide from wrong diagnosis.
(slow loading) feng shui as defined by the skeptic's dictionary.
the philosophers' magazine on the net.
"bodypositive looks at ways we can feel good in the bodies we have.
hundreds of prejudice-related bibliographies,  links to books, research journals, magazines, e-zines, newsletters, special  reports, articles, essays, and more.
resourceful philosophy dictionaries of the most important terms and concepts used by kant and other philosophers throughout the ages.
a mental health site created by over 300 volunteer professionals.
karma - meaning and definition.
by plato, communist manifesto by karl marx, on liberty by john stuart  mill, prince by niccolo machiavelli, utopia by sir thomas more, and other major  works.
scroll down to see links to a wide variety of philosophy websites including: why study philosophy?
videos: what is happiness, happy tips, recipe for happiness, think yourself happy, the power of happiness, what really motivates us, politics of happiness, the bhutanese formula for happiness.
153.1 memory, psychology of learning, (thought and thinking), (intellect),  (mind), (understanding) the memory prescription:
categories includearticles (wide variety of topics, a-z), discussion (anonymous forum, over 95 topics),psychology resources on the web, psychtoon (psychological humor of cartoonists), and others.
moral implications of science, medicine and research.
include global personality test, right left brain tests, enneagram tests, myers-briggs-jung tests,jung typology test, the big five personality test, personality disorder test, compatibility tests, word association test, and more.
a mental health site created by over 300 volunteer  professionals.
visual phenomena, real life illusions, magic  tricks, and puzzles.
guide to philosophy on the internet by peter suber, earlham college, richmond, in.
see alsophilosophy sites by topic.
types of isms: tradition, movement, school, doctrine, principle, idea, theory, system, approach.
site designed for educational purposes by debora burgard, ph.d., a licensed psychologist practicing in los altos, ca.
look up: occult sciences from babylon.com.
besides united states, iats are available in  english for australia, canada, india, south africa, and united kingdom.
reincarnation: definition, reimbodiment is universal, do family members  reincarnate together?
● conscious control of human aura by dr tom j. chalko, melbourne, australia.
creation vs. evolution - are we descended from apes?
taoism virtual library.
remember, your body hears everything you think."
warning: this page contains  some works of "anomalous motion illusion", which might make sensitive  observers dizzy or sick.
152.4 attitude (psychology), emotions, prejudices, (prejudice),  (discrimination) project implicit.
71 optical illusions by michael bach.
free, scary, word & picture optical illusions.
improving your memory: tips and techniques for memory enhancement from helpguide.org.
detailed info on chinese horoscope, e.g. metal rat 1900,  1960, water rat 1912, 1972, wood rat 1924, 1984, fire rat 1936, 1996, earth rat  1948, 2008.
memory from skeptic's dictionary.
this is not an iq test.
news articles, blogs, links to television videos related to assisted suicide from guardian.co.uk.
healthy body image: what is body image?
includes: ama's code of medical ethics - for more than 155 years, the ama code of medical ethics has been considered the most comprehensive ethics guide for physicians on a wide range of patient-physician issues.
meaning of life - what's the point of living?
individual philosophers - chronological index :
philosophy by region, philosophy by topic, philosophy institutions, individual philosophers (a-z), directory of philosophers (a-z), philosophy journals (electronic and paper versions), and other links.
faqs, types of memory, how memory works, forgetfulness and age-associated memory impairment, forgetfulness: it's not always what you think - diagnosis, treatment, advice for today, resources.
● conscious  control of human aura by dr tom j. chalko, melbourne, australia.
mighty optical illusions.
contents include: general guides includes philosophy guides  in different languages philosophers and philosophies - biographies of major  philosophers philosophical topics philosophy quotations philosophy miscellany - humor, news, philosophy  for children, portraits, timelines, and more.
see alsofalse memory.
this 200+ page site hosts iq tests, puzzles, games, trivia, freebies, a webmaster affiliate program, and contests for prizes.
information for research on euthanasia, physician-assisted suicide, living wills, and mercy killing.
five simple techniques to improve your memory hidden memories: fact or fantasy?
psychology 152.14 optical illusions, (psychophysiology) 152.4 attitude (psychology), emotions, prejudices, (prejudice), (discrimination) 153.1 memory, psychology of learning, (thought and thinking), (intellect), (mind), (understanding) 153.93 intelligence tests, (iq tests) 155.2 personality, body image, self-esteem, self-acceptance, self-perception, self-confidence, self-consciousness, self-realization 158 happiness 174 bioethics, medical ethics, (biological ethics), (biology - ethics), (biomedical ethics), (life sciences ethics), (moral issues) 179.7 euthanasia, right to die, suicide 181 chinese philosophy, hindu philosophy american philosophy study guide by ralph dumain.
the emotional immune system - "... you can be any size and hate your body, and you can be any size and accept your body.
librarians' index to the internet: philosophy.
152.14 optical illusions, (psychophysiology) akiyoshi's illusion pages by professor akiyoshi kitaoka, department of  psychology, ritsumeikan university, kyoto, japan.
include apology, phaedo, republic, etc. by plato, communist manifesto by karl marx, on liberty by john stuart mill, prince by niccolo machiavelli, utopia by sir thomas more, and other major works.
east and southeast asia: an annotated directory of internet resources.
is it more than sun signs?
includes your sun sign, celebrity horoscopes. existentialism: an introduction.
look up: philosophy dictionary from babylon.com.
scroll down to see links to a wide variety of  philosophy websites including: why study philosophy?
an excellent site loaded with  philosophy resources bydr.
guide to philosophy on the internet by peter suber, earlham college,  richmond, in.
includeschinese astrology.
what makes you happy?
doctor-assisted suicide by sid bernstein, esq.
visual phenomena, real life illusions, magic tricks, and puzzles.
lists best of philosophy  sites on the www: philosophy directories, philosophy databases, and specific  philosophy resources.
optical illusions & visual phenomena (visual illusion · optische täuschung).
a brief feng shui introduction.
study guides, outlines, summaries, and commentary on aristotelian and platonic philosophy.
links to asian studies, religion, and china studies.
spinning disks - java-powered pattern, color wheels, and  moiré pattern generator.
ten of the most  frequently asked questions about the nature of the universe and our place in it: big bang theory - how and why did the universe begin?
peter j. king, pembroke college, oxford, uk.
there is no universally agreed upon model of the mind/brain, and no universally agreed upon model of how memory works."
go to demonstrations and try an implicit association test (iat) to measure your attitudes.
check out the "gems archive" for  past gems.
by barry l. beyerstein and james r. p. ogloff.
astrology: science or superstition?
psychology look up: psychology dictionary  from babylon.com.
look up: psychology dictionary from babylon.com.
deja vu, how does your memory work?
see alsowhat is déjà vu?
erraticimpact.com: philosophy research base.
plato / aristotle study guides from about.com.
ethical dilemmas - how do we decide between right and wrong?
contents: losing memory, types of memory, early memories, improving your memory, where are your memories?
optical illusions & visual phenomena (visual illusion · optische  täuschung).
quiz provided by mensa international for entertainment purposes only.
a  selection of the most popular optical illusions.
philosophy study guides from sparknotes.
100 philosophy 129 reincarnation, (rebirth) 133 aura, (color - psychic aspects), (color - therapeutic use), typology (psychology) - miscellanea 133.5 astrology, horoscopes, zodiac 142 existentialism, (philosophers, modern) 150