by margaret winker, md, from american  geriatrics society.
the chinese philosophy page includes links to religion and rebellion in china, shamanism in chinese culture, and the chinese philosophical etext archive based at wesleyan university.
social justice - should the rich help the poor?
prevent suicide now.com - suicide prevention, awareness.
this site is highly recommended for student research as it provides some of the best links to philosophy resources currently available online.
see alsowhat is  déjà vu?
besides united states, iats are  available for australia, canada, france, india, south africa, and united  kingdom.
capricorn | aquarius | pisces weekly horoscopes: aries | taurus | gemini | cancer | leo | virgo | libra | scorpio | sagittarius | capricorn | aquarius | pisces birthstones, zodiac stones and birthstone colors.
includes links to journals and newspaper articles, books, web sites, radio and tv programs, chronology of assisted suicide, details on the oregon death with dignity act, as well as some u.s. supreme court decisions on euthanasia.
bioethicsweb offers free access to a searchable catalogue of internet sites  and resources covering biomedical ethics.
how does alzheimer's  disease change memory? searching for memory: the brain, the mind, and the past by daniel schacter  - book review by bob carroll.
153.1 memory, psychology of learning, (thought and thinking), (intellect),  (mind), (understanding) the memory prescription: your brain and body young searching for memory: and the past by daniel l. schacter hidden memories: fact or fantasy?
philosophy around the web.
body image - life is a beauty pageant: "our individual experiences also affect how we feel about our bodies.
include global personality test, right left  brain tests, enneagram tests, myers-briggs-jung tests,jung typology test, the  big five personality test, personality disorder test, compatibility tests, word  association test, and more.
body image and your kids: your body image plays a role in theirs -
how do we nurture a positive body image ..."
directory of philosophers a-z. individual philosophers - alphabetical index of biographies of 188 philosophers.
information for research on euthanasia, physician-assisted  suicide, living wills, and mercy killing.
laws concerning euthanasia from the euthanasia research & guidance  organization (ergo!), a nonprofit educational corporation based in oregon, usa.
doctor-assisted suicide.
a developing dynamic encyclopedia with each  entry maintained and kept up to date by an expert or group of experts.
test  yourself for hidden biases, and other tests.
includes: confucianism, taoism, the book of changes, chinese buddhism, tibetan buddhism, christianity, judaism.
lists best of philosophy sites on the www: philosophy directories, philosophy databases, and specific philosophy resources.
see also aristotle texts - works by aristotle, aristotle quotes, aristotle: works,  philosophy - theories and writings of the philosopher aristotle, and overcome  your fear of ancient philosophy.
155.2 personality, body image, self-esteem, self-acceptance,  self-perception, self-confidence, self-consciousness, self-realization our bodies, ourselves: a new edition for a new era body image.
discover your personality type.
online version available in dutch, english, french, german, greek, hungarian, icelandic, italian, japanese, korean, portuguese, slovak, and spanish.
includes a link todeath, legal and illegal by  a catholic theologian.
includes links to feng  shui faq, fengshui gate: essays on the origin of feng shui, feng shui society:  practical application of feng shui, pronunciation of feng shui, feng shui  strands, feng shui consultations, and a feng shui glossary.
faqs, types of  memory, how memory works, forgetfulness and age-associated memory impairment,  forgetfulness: it's not always what you think - diagnosis, treatment, advice  for today, resources.
right to die: an issue guide from public agenda online.
book excerpt from our bodies, ourselves : a new edition for a new era.
experience of age discrimination : the evidence from third age employment network.
includesbody image web links.
contents of existential primer: basic existentialism, famous names (biographies of fyodor dostoevsky, søren kierkegaard, friedrich nietzsche, georg w.f. hegel, edmund husserl, martin heidegger, franz kafka, jean-paul sartre, simone de beauvoir, maurice merleau-ponty, albert camus, and karl jaspers), definitions, existential ethics, shared values, religion & faith, the individual, divisions in thought, metaphysicians, politicians, existentialism in context, philosophical evolution, world history, and existential resources.
table of contents includes a bodypositive approach, why weight neutrality?
time travel - is time travel physically or logically possible?
features include "what's new" for the  latest additions of philosophy links, and "gem of the web" for the  best of the best philosophy sites.
site provides facts and policy alternatives, and offers a  detailed profile of public thinking about the right to die.
indexing the web for the best in psychology.
stanford encyclopedia of philosophy.
the image of "perfection" we see in the media excludes women with disabilities."
a nonpartisan,  nonprofit public opinion research and citizen education organization based in  new york city.
articles organized into  categories: news and reports, feature articles, essays, conference reports,  open debate, primers (short articles set out the basics, e.g. snapshots of  philosophers), reviews.
categorized by history,  subject and author.
quiz provided by mensa international for entertainment  purposes only.
comprehensive site with numerous articles, hotlines, and resources.
compatibility chart plus: daily horoscopes: aries |  taurus | gemini | cancer | leo | virgo | libra | scorpio | sagittarius |  capricorn | aquarius | pisces weekly horoscopes: aries | taurus | gemini |  cancer | leo | virgo | libra | scorpio | sagittarius | capricorn | aquarius |  pisces birthstones, zodiac stones and birthstone colors.
the  image of "perfection" we see in the media excludes women with  disabilities."
study guides on: developmental psychology,  personality psychology, abnormal psychology, cognitive psychology, and  neuropsychology.
features thousands of annotated links, text resources and community services for students and teachers of philosophy.
the internet encyclopedia of philosophy choose a letter to search from  table of contents a-z. also searchable by timeline, philosophy text collection,  or key words.
go to demonstrations and try an implicit association test (iat) tomeasure your attitudes.
includes: ama code  of medical ethics - for more than 155 years, the ama code of medical ethics has  been considered the most comprehensive ethics guide for physicians on a wide  range of patient-physician issues.
cultural relativism - are moral values relative or absolute?
search table of contents a to z of philosophers, theories, and terms.
list of fiction, non-fiction, and media (video or dvd) titles  relating to body image chosen for middle and high school students.
the skeptic’s dictionary is a lively, commonsense  trove of detailed information on all things supernatural, paranormal, and  pseudoscientific.
how do we nurture a  positive body image ..."
"memory is the retention of, and  ability to recall, information, personal experiences, and procedures (skills  and habits).
see alsowhat is feng shui?
philosophy by region,  philosophy by topic, philosophy institutions, individual philosophers (a-z),  directory of philosophers (a-z), philosophy journals (electronic and paper  versions), and other links.
study guides on: developmental psychology, personality psychology, abnormal psychology, cognitive psychology, and neuropsychology.
a brief guide to philosophy in the form of a dictionary.
improve your memory techniques from mind tools.
includes a link todeath, legal and illegal by a catholic theologian.
memory has two parts:  concentration (you have to get it before you can forget it) and recall.
individual philosophers - chronological index : ancient (to 450 ad), mediæval (450-1450 ad), renaissance (1450-1600), early modern (1600-1800), nineteenth century, and twentieth century philosophers.
ask a philosopher from pathways to philosophy, with philosophical questions and answers.
179 euthanasia, right to die, suicide, (doctor assisted suicide),  (physician assisted suicide), (mercy death), (mercy killing), (death with  dignity), pro-choice movement, (abortion rights movement), (freedom of choice  movement), (pro-abortion movement), (right to choose movement), pro-life  movement, (anti-abortion movement), (antiabortion movement), (right-to-life  movement)
includes free daily and personal horoscope, your astrology reports, horoscopes forecasts and natal charts.
personality, body image, self-esteem, self-acceptance, self-perception,  self-confidence, self-consciousness, self-realization 174 bioethics,  medical ethics, (biological ethics), (biology - ethics), (biomedical ethics),  (life sciences ethics), (moral issues) 179 euthanasia, right to die,  suicide, (doctor assisted suicide), (physician assisted suicide), (mercy  death), (mercy killing), (death with dignity), pro-choice movement, (abortion  rights movement), (freedom of choice movement), (pro-abortion movement), (right  to choose movement), pro-life movement, (anti-abortion movement), (antiabortion  movement), (right-to-life movement) 181 chinese philosophy, hindu philosophy 100 philosophy american philosophy study guide by ralph dumain.
extraterrestrial life - are we alone in the universe?
national mental health association.
memory loss with aging: what's normal, what's not from familydoctor.org.
china: philosophy and religion.
include apology, phaedo, republic,  etc.
click on any link for more information on birthstones, history,  photos, properties, etc. chinese horoscopes from chinatown online.co.uk.
online version available in dutch, english, french, german,  greek, hungarian, icelandic, italian, japanese, korean, portuguese, slovak, and  spanish.
include: how to... learn a foreign language, how to... remember information for  exams, how to... remember people's names, how to... remember lists and long  numbers, and more.
the chinese  philosophy page includes links to religion and rebellion in china, shamanism in  chinese culture, and the chinese philosophical etext archive based at wesleyan  university.
artificial intelligence - could a computer have a mind?
rat, ox ,tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, ram, monkey, rooster, dog, pig.
topics covered: bioethics for beginners, cloning and genetics, er (tv drama) bioethics, assisted suicide, links to journal articles.
the law of karma teaches that responsibility for unskillful actions is born by the person who commits them.
what are some other causes of memory problems?
psychology 152.4 attitude (psychology), emotions, prejudices, (prejudice), (discrimination) 153.1 memory, psychology of learning, (thought and thinking), (intellect), (mind), (understanding) 153.93 intelligence tests, (iq tests) 155.2 personality, body image, self-esteem, self-acceptance, self-perception, self-confidence, self-consciousness, self-realization 174 bioethics, medical ethics, (biological ethics), (biology - ethics), (biomedical ethics), (life sciences ethics), (moral issues) 179 euthanasia, right to die, suicide, (doctor assisted suicide), (physician assisted suicide), (mercy death), (mercy killing), (death with dignity), pro-choice movement, (abortion rights movement), (freedom of choice movement), (pro-abortion movement), (right to choose movement), pro-life movement, (anti-abortion movement), (antiabortion movement), (right-to-life movement) 181 chinese philosophy, hindu philosophy american philosophy study guide by ralph dumain.
personality tests and tools.
the skeptic's dictionary: the skeptic's dictionary - a collection of strange beliefs, amusing deceptions, and dangerous delusions by robert todd carroll.
you can also be any size and be  vulnerable to the assumptions made by the public about you based on your body's  appearance ..." and much more.
tips for improving your memory - basic memory skills from the study hall, dallas tx.
home - contact - sitemap - privacy - contribute © 1998-2008.
find your chinese horoscope animal sign and learn what it  means for your personality.
ideal  conditions to improve concentration and recall, in class and while studying -  from willamette university, salem or.
topics  covered: bioethics for beginners, cloning and genetics, er (tv drama)
ancient (to 450 ad), mediæval (450-1450 ad), renaissance (1450-1600),  early modern (1600-1800), nineteenth century, and twentieth century  philosophers.
occultopedia, an encyclopedia of occult sciences and knowledge.
you have 30 minutes to answer 30 questions.
"the chinese have named years after animals for thousands of years.
list of fiction, non-fiction, and media (video or dvd) titles relating to body image chosen for middle and high school students.
psychology - terminology.
this site is committed to the belief that the direct killing of another person is wrong.
"the chinese have  named years after animals for thousands of years.
topics include: how does the brain store information?
epistemelinks.com includes thousands of sorted links to philosophy  resources on the internet.
includes links to feng shui faq, fengshui gate: essays on the origin of feng shui, feng shui society: practical application of feng shui, pronunciation of feng shui, feng shui strands, feng shui consultations, and a feng shui glossary.
check out the "gems archive" for past gems.
directory of philosophers a-z. individual philosophers - alphabetical index  of biographies of 188 philosophers.
links to websites on: aesthetics, general resources, american indian philosophy, humanism, ancient greek philosophy, objectivism, chinese philosophy, philosophers, deconstruction, political theory, dictionaries & encyclopedias, pragmatism, eastern philosophy, secularism, ethics, stoics, existentialism, transcendentalism, futurism, utopias.
memory loss: learn the basics from aetna intelihealth.
how does aging change the brain?
hundreds of prejudice-related bibliographies, links to books, research journals, magazines, e-zines, newsletters, special reports, articles, essays, and more.
there is no universally agreed upon model of the mind/brain, and  no universally agreed upon model of how memory works."
for more than 155 years, the ama code of medical ethics has been considered the most comprehensive ethics guide for physicians on a wide range of patient-physician issues.
understanding prejudice.
it contains everything you have learnt."
memory improvement tools.
133 occultism, (occult sciences), (spiritualism) man and the unknown.
if we have experienced  violence or abuse, we may feel unsafe in our bodies.
tour of the planets from adze mixxe.
142 existentialsm, (philosophers, modern) existentialism: an introduction.
the media lies: "it’s hard to imagine  a world where idealized female imagery is not plastered everywhere. ...
according to the american society of plastic surgeons,  more than 8.7 million cosmetic surgery procedures were done in 2003.
the law of karma: how it works.
tips for improving your memory - basic memory skills from the study hall,  dallas tx.
129 reincarnation, (rebirth) karma - meaning and definition.
reincarnation in world religions, past-life recall as proof for reincarnation, reincarnation and cosmic justice, reincarnation and christianity.
reincarnation: definition, reimbodiment is universal, do family members reincarnate together?
eating disorders - anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and binge-eating  disorder are all types of eating disorders.
the overriding factor, born again and again and again:  reincarnation in christianity, of reincarnation - the ocean of theosophy.
types of isms: tradition, movement, school, doctrine, principle,  idea, theory, system, approach.
174 bioethics, medical ethics, (biological ethics), (biology - ethics),  (biomedical ethics), (life sciences ethics), (moral issues bioethics.net.
features include "what's new" for the latest additions of philosophy links, and "gem of the web" for the best of the best philosophy sites.
personality test center.
bodypositive® boosting body image at any weight.
feng shui as it relates to career, children, education,  fame, family, health, love, mentors, networking, wealth, plus astrology,  colors, feng shui almanac, celebrity, tip of the month, as well as feng shui  around the world: feng shui australia, brunei, hawaii, indonesia, india, japan,  malaysia, mexico, new zealand, singapore, spain, uk and usa.
includes free daily and personal horoscope, your  astrology reports, horoscopes forecasts and natal charts.
exercises and demonstrations include slide  tour of prejudice, implicit association test (race test, gender test) -
bioethicsweb offers free access to a searchable catalogue of internet sites and resources covering biomedical ethics.
an excellent site loaded with philosophy resources bydr.
this site is highly recommended for student research as it provides  some of the best links to philosophy resources currently available online.
a developing dynamic encyclopedia with each entry maintained and kept up to date by an expert or group of experts.
181 chinese philosophy, hindu philosophy china: philosophy and religion.
links to asian studies, religion, and china  studies.
taoism information page.
contents include: a popular model of memory; forgetting; source memory; amnesia and implicit memory; semantic, procedural, and episodic memory; accuracy of memory; how does memory work?
"your memory is your brain's filing system.
how does alzheimer's disease change memory? searching for memory: the brain, the mind, and the past by daniel schacter - book review by bob carroll.
laws concerning euthanasia from the euthanasia research & guidance organization (ergo!), a nonprofit educational corporation based in oregon, usa. ergo!
go to demonstrations and try an implicit association test  (iat) tomeasure your attitudes.
categories includearticles (wide variety of topics, a-z),  discussion (anonymous forum, over 95 topics),psychology resources on the web,  psychtoon (psychological humor of cartoonists), and others.
include links to:faqs about suicide, suicide facts & statistics, teen suicide, suicide and the elderly, depression & suicide, statistics: native american and black suicide rates, and many other related topics.
the  emotional immune system - "... you can be any size and hate your body, and  you can be any size and accept your body.
ergo! holds that voluntary euthanasia, physician-assisted suicide, and  self-deliverance, are all appropriate life endings depending on the individual  medical and ethical circumstances.
on this site you will find a summary guide of chinese horoscopes, which include not only your chinese year of birth but also your chinese month of birth.
life after death - what is death and why should we fear it?
hidden memories: fact or fantasy?
features thousands of annotated links, text resources and  community services for students and teachers of philosophy.
contents: alternative medicine, cryptozoology, ets & ufos, frauds  & hoaxes, junk science, logic & perception, science & philosophy,  supernatural, paranormal, new age, who am i? 133.5 astrology, horoscopes, zodiac astrocenter.com.
exercises and demonstrations include slide tour of prejudice, implicit association test (race test, gender test) -
tests are for your entertainment only, including money personality test, what type of investor are you, type a personality test, colorquiz, career values inventory, the 3 sides of you®, keirsey temperament sorter, and more.
q&as include: what causes memory problems?
contents include: general guides includes philosophy guides in different languages philosophers and philosophies - biographies of major philosophers philosophical topics philosophy dictionaries and glossaries philosophy quotations philosophy miscellany - humor, news, philosophy for children, portraits, timelines, and more.
massive site covers: affiliate services (links to 330 nmha affiliates in u.s.); adult mental health/c.a.r.e.; anxiety disorders; clinical depression; children and families; consumer advocacy/rights; information center; news room; public education; prevention; federal and state government affairs; healthcare reform; event calendar; search nmha web site.
the law of karma teaches that responsibility for unskillful actions is born  by the person who commits them.
links to websites on: aesthetics, general resources,  american indian philosophy, humanism, ancient greek philosophy, objectivism,  chinese philosophy, philosophers, deconstruction, political theory,  dictionaries & encyclopedias, pragmatism, eastern philosophy, secularism,  ethics, stoics, existentialism, transcendentalism, futurism, utopias. philosophers.
if we have experienced violence or abuse, we may feel unsafe in our bodies.
how does aging change the  brain?
ten of the most frequently asked questions about the nature of the universe and our place in it: tpm online.
search table of contents a to z of  philosophers, theories, and terms.
study guides, outlines,  summaries, and commentary on aristotelian and platonic philosophy.
object of these pages is a call for understanding of some little known spiritual and cultural aspects of life.
topics include: suicide warning signs, suicide causes, depression and suicide, domestic violence and suicide, suicide myths, suicide statistics, bullying and suicide, racism and suicide, how to help a suicidal person, and more.
by barry l. beyerstein and james r. p.  ogloff.
presents both sides of the issue.
epistemelinks.com includes thousands of sorted links to philosophy resources on the internet.
dewey and dewey decimal classification are registered trademarks/service marks of oclc.
suicide facts from national strategy for suicide prevention (nssp).
eating disorders are more than  just a problem with food.
contents include: bodypositive® boosting body image at any weight.
contents: alternative medicine, cryptozoology, ets & ufos, frauds & hoaxes, junk science, logic & perception, science & philosophy, supernatural, paranormal, new age, who am i? astrocenter.com.
compatibility chart plus: daily horoscopes: aries | taurus | gemini | cancer | leo | virgo | libra | scorpio | sagittarius |
in fact, the chinese zodiac system is extremely complex, based on an ancient agricultural calendar."
page answers some common questions about astrology: how does astrology work?
whatever you do to others - will be done to you, in this or any future incarnation of your soul.
see alsoa touch of grey - age discriminiation.
what is body image? - from national women's  health information center.
astro compatibility, weekly, monthly and yearly horoscopes, chinese horoscopes, about planets, free sample personal astrology profile, and more.
site is against legalization of physician-assisted  suicide and voluntary euthanasia.
from science museum.org.uk.
test yourself for hidden biases, and other tests.
memory loss - should i be concerned?
"bodypositive looks at ways we can feel good  in the bodies we have.
in fact, the chinese zodiac  system is extremely complex, based on an ancient agricultural calendar."
test topics include: age iat, gender iat, race iat, countries iat, sexuality iat, weight iat.
what goes around comes around.
healthy eating - overall, about one third of all women are obese.
whatever you do to others - will be done to  you, in this or any future incarnation of your soul.
includes: ama code of medical ethics -
all copyright rights in the dewey decimal classification are owned by oclc online computer library center, inc.
astro compatibility, weekly, monthly and yearly  horoscopes, chinese horoscopes, about planets, free sample personal astrology  profile, and more.
staying active - an active lifestyle can help every woman.
the internet encyclopedia of philosophy choose a letter to search from table of contents a-z. also searchable by timeline, philosophy text collection, or key words.
reincarnation: its meaning and consequences.
topics include: alchemy, philosophy, mysticism, astrology, numerology, prophecy, divination, hoaxes, demons, angels, spirits, ghosts, end of the world, disasters, powers of healing, lost worlds, voodoo, witchcraft, myths, heroes, knights, legends, miracles, secret societies, religions, cults, shipwrecks, psychic powers, strange customs, amulets, superstitions, ufos, extraterrestrials, close encounters, and more.
home         previous         next home - contact - sitemap - privacy - contribute © 1998-2008.
a variety of fun personality tests that provide analysis and advice by interpreting the user's answers to various questions and events.
articles organized into categories: news and reports, feature articles, essays, conference reports, open debate, primers (short articles set out the basics, e.g. snapshots of philosophers), reviews.
categorized by history, subject and author.
what if i  have probable alzheimer's disease?
man and the unknown.
contents of existential primer: basic  existentialism, famous names (biographies of fyodor dostoevsky, søren  kierkegaard, friedrich nietzsche, georg w.f. hegel, edmund husserl, martin  heidegger, franz kafka, jean-paul sartre, simone de beauvoir, maurice  merleau-ponty, albert camus, and karl jaspers), definitions, existential  ethics, shared values, religion & faith, the individual, divisions in  thought, metaphysicians, politicians, existentialism in context, philosophical  evolution, world history, and existential resources.
on this site you will find a summary guide of chinese horoscopes, which include  not only your chinese year of birth but also your chinese month of birth.
compiled by mary hofmann, school library journal.
virtual mentor - an interactive, web-based forum for analysis and discussion of ethical and professional issues that medical students, residents and young physicians encounter during their educational training.
"memory is the retention of, and ability to recall, information, personal experiences, and procedures (skills and habits).
this 200+ page site hosts iq tests, puzzles, games, trivia,  freebies, a webmaster affiliate program, and contests for prizes.
site designed for  educational purposes by debora burgard, ph.d., a licensed psychologist  practicing in los altos, ca.
issue: "hidden" or "repressed" memories of child abuse or child sexual abuse.
branches of philosophy: metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, aesthetics, and  politices.
remember, your body hears everything you think.
contents include: a  popular model of memory; forgetting; source memory; amnesia and implicit  memory; semantic, procedural, and episodic memory; accuracy of memory; how does  memory work?
object of these pages is a call for understanding of  some little known spiritual and cultural aspects of life.
page answers some common questions  about astrology: how does astrology work?
memory has two parts: concentration (you have to get it before you can forget it) and recall.
buddhanet basic buddhism guide.
includes your sun sign, celebrity  horoscopes.
book excerpt from our bodies, ourselves : a new edition for a  new era.
the overriding factor, born again and again and again: reincarnation in christianity, of reincarnation - the ocean of theosophy.
issue: "hidden" or "repressed" memories of child  abuse or child sexual abuse.
is it more than  sun signs?
spark notes: psychology.
links to: introductions to taoism, chinese language and culture, tao te ching, i ching, the sun-tzu art of war, alchemy and feng shui, buddhism and confucianism, chinese philosophy, taoism and martial arts, taoism and modernity.
medical ethics from american medical association (ama).
a nonpartisan, nonprofit public opinion research and citizen education organization based in new york city.
ask a philosopher from pathways to philosophy, with philosophical questions  and answers.
what if i have probable alzheimer's disease?
include  links to:faqs about suicide, suicide facts & statistics, teen suicide,  suicide and the elderly, depression & suicide, statistics: native american  and black suicide rates, and many other related topics.
branches of philosophy: metaphysics, epistemology, ethics, aesthetics, and politices.
see also aristotle texts - works by aristotle, aristotle quotes, aristotle: works, philosophy - theories and writings of the philosopher aristotle, and overcome your fear of ancient philosophy.
what is body image? - from national women's health information center.
modern and traditional birthstones.
memory loss from medlineplus medical encyclopedia.
from eric weisstein's world of biography.
click on any link for more information on birthstones, history, photos, properties, etc. chinese horoscopes from chinatown online.co.uk.
feng shui as it relates to career, children, education, fame, family, health, love, mentors, networking, wealth, plus astrology, colors, feng shui almanac, celebrity, tip of the month, as well as feng shui around the world: feng shui australia, brunei, hawaii, indonesia, india, japan, malaysia, mexico, new zealand, singapore, spain, uk and usa.
a virtual library of useful urls arranged by dewey decimal  classification 100 philosophy and psychology 100 philosophy and psychology - subject headings 100-199 100 philosophy 133 occultism, (occult  sciences), (spiritualism) 133.5 astrology, horoscopes, zodiac 152.4 attitude  (psychology), emotions, prejudices, (prejudice), (discrimination) 153.1  memory, psychology of learning, (thought and thinking), (intellect), (mind),  (understanding) 153.93 intelligence tests, (iq tests) 155.2
many  teenage girls of average weight think they are overweight and are not satisfied  with their bodies.
from science & pseudoscience review in mental health -- resource archive hosted by the scientific review of mental health practice (srmhp).
site provides facts and policy alternatives, and offers a detailed profile of public thinking about the right to die.
the ten big questions from pathways to philosophy.
topics covered include: daily amnesia, dream amnesia, limited amnesia, effects of alcohol, brain injuries and physical or psychological traumas on memory, repressed memories, memory distortion, memory in children, hypnosis and memory, emotions in memory, flashbacks (deja vu), photographic memory, and more.
it contains  everything you have learnt."
bioethics, assisted suicide, links to journal articles.
you can also be any size and be vulnerable to the assumptions made by the public about you based on your body's appearance ..." and much more.
memorization techniques - tips to improve memory.
topics covered include: daily amnesia, dream  amnesia, limited amnesia, effects of alcohol, brain injuries and physical or  psychological traumas on memory, repressed memories, memory distortion, memory  in children, hypnosis and memory, emotions in memory, flashbacks (deja vu),  photographic memory, and more.
include: how to... learn a foreign language, how to... remember information for exams, how to... remember people's names, how to... remember lists and long numbers, and more.
reincarnation in world  religions, past-life recall as proof for reincarnation, reincarnation and  cosmic justice, reincarnation and christianity.
modern and traditional  birthstones.
(slow loading) feng shui as defined by the skeptic's dictionary.
the philosophers' magazine on the net.
"bodypositive looks at ways we can feel good in the bodies we have.
you have 30 minutes to answer 30  questions.
find your chinese horoscope animal sign and learn what it means for your personality.
hundreds of prejudice-related bibliographies,  links to books, research journals, magazines, e-zines, newsletters, special  reports, articles, essays, and more.
a mental health site created by over 300 volunteer professionals.
karma - meaning and definition.
subjects range from  paranormal voices (with sound clips), javanese mysticism, parapsychology to  modern dutch art.
by plato, communist manifesto by karl marx, on liberty by john stuart  mill, prince by niccolo machiavelli, utopia by sir thomas more, and other major  works.
test topics include: age iat, gender iat, race  iat, countries iat, sexuality iat, weight iat.
scroll down to see links to a wide variety of philosophy websites including: why study philosophy?
see alsowhat is  feng shui?
categories includearticles (wide variety of topics, a-z), discussion (anonymous forum, over 95 topics),psychology resources on the web, psychtoon (psychological humor of cartoonists), and others.
moral implications of science, medicine and research.
include global personality test, right left brain tests, enneagram tests, myers-briggs-jung tests,jung typology test, the big five personality test, personality disorder test, compatibility tests, word association test, and more.
a mental health site created by over 300 volunteer  professionals.
the media lies: "it’s hard to imagine a world where idealized female imagery is not plastered everywhere. ...
a variety of fun personality tests that provide analysis  and advice by interpreting the user's answers to various questions and events.
" table of contents includes a bodypositive approach, why weight neutrality?
guide to philosophy on the internet by peter suber, earlham college, richmond, in.
see alsophilosophy sites by topic.
virtual mentor - an interactive, web-based  forum for analysis and discussion of ethical and professional issues that  medical students, residents and young physicians encounter during their  educational training.
by margaret winker, md, from american geriatrics society.
types of isms: tradition, movement, school, doctrine, principle, idea, theory, system, approach.
topics  include: alchemy, philosophy, mysticism, astrology, numerology, prophecy,  divination, hoaxes, demons, angels, spirits, ghosts, end of the world,  disasters, powers of healing, lost worlds, voodoo, witchcraft, myths, heroes,  knights, legends, miracles, secret societies, religions, cults, shipwrecks,  psychic powers, strange customs, amulets, superstitions, ufos,  extraterrestrials, close encounters, and more.
site designed for educational purposes by debora burgard, ph.d., a licensed psychologist practicing in los altos, ca.
reincarnation: definition, reimbodiment is universal, do family members  reincarnate together?
creation vs. evolution - are we descended from apes?
remember, your body hears everything you think."
portions reproduced with permission.
includes links to journals and  newspaper articles, books, web sites, radio and tv programs, chronology of  assisted suicide, details on the oregon death with dignity act, as well as some  u.s. supreme court decisions on euthanasia.
all copyright rights in the  dewey decimal classification are owned by oclc online computer library center,  inc. portions reproduced with permission.
links to: introductions to taoism, chinese  language and culture, tao te ching, i ching, the sun-tzu art of war, alchemy  and feng shui, buddhism and confucianism, chinese philosophy, taoism and  martial arts, taoism and modernity.
memory from skeptic's dictionary.
this is not an iq test.
ideal conditions to improve concentration and recall, in class and while studying - from willamette university, salem or.
meaning of life - what's the point of living?
massive site covers: affiliate services  (links to 330 nmha affiliates in u.s.); adult mental health/c.a.r.e.; anxiety  disorders; clinical depression; children and families; consumer  advocacy/rights; information center; news room; public education; prevention;  federal and state government affairs; healthcare reform; event calendar; search  nmha web site.
body image - life is a beauty pageant: "our individual  experiences also affect how we feel about our bodies.
body image and your health.
individual philosophers - chronological index :
philosophy by region, philosophy by topic, philosophy institutions, individual philosophers (a-z), directory of philosophers (a-z), philosophy journals (electronic and paper versions), and other links.
faqs, types of memory, how memory works, forgetfulness and age-associated memory impairment, forgetfulness: it's not always what you think - diagnosis, treatment, advice for today, resources.
besides united states, iats are available for australia, canada, france, india, south africa, and united kingdom.
contents include: general guides includes philosophy guides  in different languages philosophers and philosophies - biographies of major  philosophers philosophical topics philosophy quotations philosophy miscellany - humor, news, philosophy  for children, portraits, timelines, and more.
see alsofalse memory.
tests are for your entertainment only, including money  personality test, what type of investor are you, type a personality test,  colorquiz, career values inventory, the 3 sides of you®, keirsey  temperament sorter, and more.
subjects range from paranormal voices (with sound clips), javanese mysticism, parapsychology to modern dutch art.
bodywise handbook - includes fact sheets and resource lists design to help  health care providers and school personnel to detect eating disorders among  adolescents and provide suggestions for promoting positive body image and  healthy eating behaviors.
this 200+ page site hosts iq tests, puzzles, games, trivia, freebies, a webmaster affiliate program, and contests for prizes.
a guide to web sites and general literature on  euthanasia.
a-z. you can add a new term to the database if you think the missing terminology is important to the field of psychology.
information for research on euthanasia, physician-assisted suicide, living wills, and mercy killing.
the emotional immune system - "... you can be any size and hate your body, and you can be any size and accept your body.
librarians' index to the internet: philosophy.
include apology, phaedo, republic, etc. by plato, communist manifesto by karl marx, on liberty by john stuart mill, prince by niccolo machiavelli, utopia by sir thomas more, and other major works.
east and southeast asia: an annotated directory of internet resources.
is it more than sun signs?
includes your sun sign, celebrity horoscopes. existentialism: an introduction.
scroll down to see links to a wide variety of  philosophy websites including: why study philosophy?
an excellent site loaded with  philosophy resources bydr.
guide to philosophy on the internet by peter suber, earlham college,  richmond, in.
featuring nearly 400 definitions, arguments, and essays on occult topics ranging from acupuncture to zombies.
includeschinese astrology.
dewey and dewey decimal  classification are registered trademarks/service marks of oclc.
home site map privacy search contact 100 philosophy 129 reincarnation, (rebirth) 133 occultism, (occult sciences), (spiritualism) 133.5 astrology, horoscopes, zodiac 142 existentialism, (philosophers, modern) 150
site is against legalization of physician-assisted suicide and voluntary euthanasia.
lists best of philosophy  sites on the www: philosophy directories, philosophy databases, and specific  philosophy resources.
153.93 intelligence tests, (iq tests)
152.4 attitude (psychology), emotions, prejudices, (prejudice),  (discrimination) experience of age discrimination : the evidence from third age employment  network.
a brief feng shui introduction.
study guides, outlines, summaries, and commentary on aristotelian and platonic philosophy.
links to asian studies, religion, and china studies.
ten of the most  frequently asked questions about the nature of the universe and our place in it: big bang theory - how and why did the universe begin?
a guide to web sites and general literature on euthanasia.
peter j. king, pembroke college, oxford, uk.
there is no universally agreed upon model of the mind/brain, and no universally agreed upon model of how memory works."
check out the "gems archive" for  past gems.
this site is committed to the belief  that the direct killing of another person is wrong.
by barry l. beyerstein and james r. p. ogloff.
astrology: science or superstition?
comprehensive site  with numerous articles, hotlines, and resources.
east and southeast asia: an annotated  directory of internet resources.
the skeptic's dictionary: a collection of strange beliefs, amusing deceptions, and dangerous  delusions the skeptic's dictionary - a collection of strange beliefs, amusing  deceptions, and dangerous delusions by robert todd carroll.
deja vu, how does your memory work?
compiled by  mary hofmann, school library journal.
see alsowhat is déjà vu?
erraticimpact.com: philosophy research base.
plato / aristotle study guides from about.com.
holds that voluntary euthanasia, physician-assisted suicide, and self-deliverance, are all appropriate life endings depending on the individual medical and ethical circumstances.
ethical dilemmas - how do we decide between right and wrong?
contents include: body image - why are so many women unhappy with their bodies?
featuring nearly  400 definitions, arguments, and essays on occult topics ranging from  acupuncture to zombies.
from science & pseudoscience review in mental  health -- resource archive hosted by the scientific review of mental health  practice (srmhp).
contents: losing memory, types of memory, early memories, improving your memory, where are your memories?
a-z. you can add a new term to the database if  you think the missing terminology is important to the field of psychology.
contents: losing  memory, types of memory, early memories, improving your memory, where are your  memories?
includes: confucianism, taoism, the book of  changes, chinese buddhism, tibetan buddhism, christianity, judaism.
quiz provided by mensa international for entertainment purposes only.
the skeptic’s dictionary is a lively, commonsense trove of detailed information on all things supernatural, paranormal, and pseudoscientific.
topics include: suicide  warning signs, suicide causes, depression and suicide, domestic violence and  suicide, suicide myths, suicide statistics, bullying and suicide, racism and  suicide, how to help a suicidal person, and more.
psychology national mental health association.
philosophy study guides from sparknotes.