he defines this as the question of how we can project value onto things without actively deciding to do so (29).
instead, pippin fails to defeat the nameless  naturalist he defines.
much of the rest of the chapter hints at the view of psychology that  will be laid out in the subsequent chapters.
he defines this as the question of how we can project  value onto things without actively deciding to do so (29).
even  setting charity aside, fidelity to the text supports the free will reading far  better than pippin's interpretation that nietzsche is rejecting the whole model  of behavior that posits real motives, goals, intentions, and aversions.
pippin seems to embrace this consequence of his view: on such a picture, it is not so paradoxical to suggest that the content of some avowal and the right act description are so pregnant with plausible possibilities that the prospect of self-serving or self-aggrandizing interpretations might not look so counterintuitive (101).
to criticize an interpretation one disagrees with, one should cite  something incorrect an interpreter said and present textual evidence that  demonstrates its falsity.
his view, which i will be exploring in these  chapters, is that views of the soul and its capacities vary with beliefs about  and commitments to norms; normative commitments are subject to radical  historical change; and so what counts as soul or psyche or mind and thus  psychology also changes.
these readings draw support from  the mention of freedom in the quoted passage and the context as well as the  discussion of how the weak use this view to hold the strong responsible for  their actions.
pippin's arguments against naturalistic interpretations usually do not cite naturalistic interpreters.
(112-113) setting aside the issue of whether nietzsche had this account of  freedom, one wonders how pippin can talk about a hierarchical unity among one's  passions after objecting to the sort of psychology that explains things by  positing real passions.
but why it forces us to reject traditional philosophical psychology is unclear.
later in the section, nietzsche talks about how the weak person "needs the belief in a neutral 'subject' with free choice," suggesting that the rejection of "the doer" is only a rejection of a subject with free will.
rejecting any general philosophical psychology can be fun, until you want to discuss how people think and feel, and then there is nothing useful you can say.
when we describe to one another what the soul  is, we mean thereby to propose an ideal, usually something like psychic health.
similarly, an actual psychological experiment he describes in chapter 5 (93-94) is not cited.)
the  relation between psychology and the normative here merely concerns what  psychological states are involved when we judge things to have value or commit  ourselves.
(pippin 71-72, citing the diethe translation ofgenealogy i:13) pippin rejects naturalistic readings of nietzsche which view this passage merely as denying some variety of free will.
why couldn't we build a philosophical psychology that  would allow us to describe and understand the mental states involved in  montaigne's stance towards life?
he solves  this problem by making the doer "notseparate, distinctive from the  activity itself; it is in the deed" (75).
here we might ask pippin how exactly normative commitments  are connected to psychological claims, how historical changes play into this  relationship, and how the resulting psychology will explain our thoughts,  feelings, and actions.
while the book's meandering from topic to topic leaves its argumentative structure unclear, it seems that pippin wants to assemble a set of nietzschean insights that cannot be accommodated within traditional philosophical psychology, motivating the idea that nietzsche's psychological views must involve a radical departure from the tradition.
nietzsche's psychological explanations -- or any others that we regard as the hard truth of the matter -- lose the advantage that correct psychological explanations have over fanciful self-explanations that smug people might use to feel good about themselves.
but many of the things he points to as evidence  fall within traditional philosophical psychology, and sometimes only a strained  reading of the text has nietzsche endorsing extraordinary psychological claims.
the view seems to be that psychological claims are in some way grounded in  normative claims.
pippin seems to have conflated his thesis, that psychology is grounded in the normative judgments of a time, with the obvious fact that normative judgments (which change over time) are realized by particular psychological states.
the first philosophy of pippin's interpretation is not psychology, but the  impossibility of doing real psychology.
he gives us little reason to think nietzsche held a view along the lines described above or to think such a view is independently plausible.
instead, self-knowledge is not observational but interpretive and, let us say,  always promissory, futural, as complexly interpretive as the interpretive  question of just what it is that is being done; action-explanation is not  causal, and motives cannot be understood as fixed, datable mental items.
hence also the deep interconnection or inseparability between psychology and genealogy (3).
perhaps they admire passages such asdaybreak 109, where reasoning about how to combat a vehement drive is revealed to be produced by an even stronger drive controlling the intellect.
(it is hard to see how the view from his third chapter that nihilism involves a failure of erotic attachments will avoid the same problem.)
when we describe to one another what the soul is, we mean thereby to propose an ideal, usually something like psychic health.
pippin characterizes nietzsche as following the french moralists:  pascal, la rochefoucauld, and especially montaigne.
if pippin had presented a detailed picture of how normative  commitments during various historical periods genuinely license some  psychological claims but not others, perhaps he would be able to give useful  psychological explanations.
hence also the deep interconnection or inseparability between psychology and  genealogy (3).
even setting charity aside, fidelity to the text supports the free will reading far better than pippin's interpretation that nietzsche is rejecting the whole model of behavior that posits real motives, goals, intentions, and aversions.
the first philosophy of pippin's interpretation is not psychology, but the impossibility of doing real psychology.
he characterizes the  nihilism that nietzsche is concerned with as a "failure of desire,  the flickering out of some erotic flame" (54).
(this sounds like alexander nehamas' view, but pippin does not cite him by name.
his view, which i will be exploring in these chapters, is that views of the soul and its capacities vary with beliefs about and commitments to norms; normative commitments are subject to radical historical change; and so what counts as soul or psyche or mind and thus psychology also changes.
pippin is right to focus on the affective component of nihilism, which seems to be what concerns nietzsche about it.
(i assume that he has brian leiter in mind, but leiter is never mentioned.)
instead, pippin fails to defeat the nameless naturalist he defines.
one might expect to find an account of this psychology in the first  chapter, titled "psychology as the 'queen of the sciences.'"
(la rochefoucauld often reveals putatively moral behavior to be a banal activity tractable within even the most flatfooted psychological theories -- the pursuit of self-interest.)
it is unclear why naturalists (as pippin defines their view) are barred from simply mimicking pippin's move and conceiving of the doer-deed relation as a part-whole relation rather than a causal relation.
he admits that "philosophically, a great deal more needs to be said before this understanding of 'the doerin the deed' could be defended," (79) and lists several difficulties with it, for example "if whatever it is that is expressed in such deeds is not a stable core or substantial self … what could form the basis of the temporal story that would link these manifestations and transformations?"
this is probably the clearest and most direct statement of the  psychological view that pippin attributes to nietzsche.
much of the rest of the chapter hints at the view of psychology that will be laid out in the subsequent chapters.
what  pippin really wants to do here is independent of the naturalism debate.
everything, that is, depends on the proper attention to the way he treats the subject-deed relation" laid out previously (100).
perhaps they admire  passages such asdaybreak 109, where reasoning about how to combat a  vehement drive is revealed to be produced by an even stronger drive controlling  the intellect.
such readers will be surprised at how pippin's interpretation robs these explanations of their value by denying the fixed and real existence of the desires and drives which they involve.
pippin seems to have conflated his thesis, that psychology is grounded in the  normative judgments of a time, with the obvious fact that normative judgments  (which change over time) are realized by particular psychological states.
one might expect to find an account of this psychology in the first chapter, titled "psychology as the 'queen of the sciences.'"
lose the advantage that correct psychological explanations have over fanciful  self-explanations that smug people might use to feel good about themselves.
his clearest account of  nietzsche's view of freedom runs as follows: achieved freedom involves achieving a capacity both to sustain a  wholehearted commitment to an ideal (an ideal that is worth sacrificing for,  that provides the basis for a certain hierarchical unity among one's interests  and passions) and what appears at first glance to be a capacity in some tension  with such wholeheartedness -- a willingness to overcome or abandon such a  commitment in altered circumstances or as a result of some development.
given satisfactory answers to these questions, we might ask for textual evidence that nietzsche held such a view and for independent reasons to accept it.
pippin argues that this passage from thegenealogy is incompatible with naturalism, because naturalistic pictures of the mind involve "some determinate causal factor 'behind' and 'before' the deed" (74).
pippin's arguments against naturalistic interpretations usually do not cite  naturalistic interpreters.
unfortunately, pippin's scattered remarks developing this view do not add  up to any clear picture of how the normative and the psychological are supposed  to relate.
his clearest account of nietzsche's view of freedom runs as follows: achieved freedom involves achieving a capacity both to sustain a wholehearted commitment to an ideal (an ideal that is worth sacrificing for, that provides the basis for a certain hierarchical unity among one's interests and passions) and what appears at first glance to be a capacity in some tension with such wholeheartedness -- a willingness to overcome or abandon such a commitment in altered circumstances or as a result of some development.
pippin's third chapter, "modernity as a psychological problem,"  discusses the condition of society after the death of god.
to do this, he needs a much better argument against the free will interpretation discussed above, which will otherwise displace his own.
early on, pippin identifies an interpretation he disagrees with: a naturalist position on which when trying to account for the human capacities required when persons direct their actions on the basis of norms, we should appeal to capacities also discovered in nonmoral or nonethical contexts, and those capacities must be consistent with our being organic material bodies located in space and time (3).
he characterizes the nihilism that nietzsche is concerned with as a "failure of desire, the flickering out of some erotic flame" (54).
according to pippin, the only kinds of freedom nietzsche cares about are "self-overcoming" (106) which he seems to sometimes call "self-mastery" (109).
these readings draw support from the mention of freedom in the quoted passage and the context as well as the discussion of how the weak use this view to hold the strong responsible for their actions.
so he backs off, saying "nothing really counts in some probative way as ' the ' establishment of mastery" (118).
unfortunately, pippin's scattered remarks developing this view do not add up to any clear picture of how the normative and the psychological are supposed to relate.
pippin is right to focus on  the affective component of nihilism, which seems to be what concerns nietzsche  about it.
he rejects an  interpretation on which self-mastery is achieved if one "'gives style' to  one's character" (109).
later in the section,  nietzsche talks about how the weak person "needs the belief in a  neutral 'subject' with free choice," suggesting that the rejection of  "the doer" is only a rejection of a subject with free will.
the problem is for views that use mental states in causal  explanations, which cross-cuts the naturalist/non-naturalist distinction.
the question of how  it is that we can form "depth commitments" that bind us to important  life projects, discussed at length by pippin, is similarly tractable (27).
robert pippin's goal in nietzsche, psychology, and first philosophy is to present a comprehensive interpretation of what nietzsche means by 'psychology,' what the relationship is, as he understands it, between such a psychology and traditional philosophy, and why he thinks such a psychology is (indeed is, as he says, 'now') so important, why it is 'the path to the fundamental problems' (xi-xii).
rejecting any general philosophical  psychology can be fun, until you want to discuss how people think and feel, and  then there is nothing useful you can say.
the view seems to be that psychological claims are in some way grounded in normative claims.
this is a strange way to conduct an interpretive  dispute.
nietzsche certainly was  interested in these figures, but pippin leaves it unclear how they take us  beyond traditional philosophical psychology or suggest that we should ground  psychological claims in normative claims.
the relation between psychology and the normative here merely concerns what psychological states are involved when we judge things to have value or commit ourselves.
it is unclear why naturalists (as pippin defines their view) are barred  from simply mimicking pippin's move and conceiving of the doer-deed relation as  a part-whole relation rather than a causal relation.
he  wants to use the strangeness of making doers part of deeds to fuel his general  argument that nietzsche rejects traditional philosophical psychology.
pippin's third chapter, "modernity as a psychological problem," discusses the condition of society after the death of god.
(pippin 71-72, citing  the diethe translation ofgenealogy i:13) pippin rejects naturalistic readings of nietzsche which view this passage  merely as denying some variety of free will.
early on, pippin identifies an interpretation he disagrees with: a  naturalist position on which when trying to account for the human capacities required when persons  direct their actions on the basis of norms, we should appeal to capacities also  discovered in nonmoral or nonethical contexts, and those capacities must be  consistent with our being organic material bodies located in space and time (3).
according to pippin, the only kinds of  freedom nietzsche cares about are "self-overcoming" (106) which he  seems to sometimes call "self-mastery" (109).
nietzsche, psychology, and first philosophy published: september 24, 2010 robert pippin, nietzsche, psychology, and first philosophy, u of  chicago press, 2010, 139pp., $29.00 (hbk), isbn 9780226669755.
but many of the things he points to as evidence fall within traditional philosophical psychology, and sometimes only a strained reading of the text has nietzsche endorsing extraordinary psychological claims.
given satisfactory answers to these questions, we might ask for textual  evidence that nietzsche held such a view and for independent reasons to accept  it.
according to pippin, "nietzsche does not seem interested in merely naturalizing all talk of motives, goals, intentions, and aversions; he denies that whole model of behavior, 'root and branch.'"
(112-113)setting aside the issue of whether nietzsche had this account of freedom, one wonders how pippin can talk about a hierarchical unity among one's passions after objecting to the sort of psychology that explains things by positing real passions.
this is part of the subject matter of traditional moral psychology.
but there is no  'being' behind the deed, its effect and what becomes of it; 'the doer' is  invented as an afterthought, -- the deed is everything.
rather, self-ascribing a motive is more like provisionally trying out an  interpretation (101).
but the only such picture that has been offered allows people to interpret themselves however they please, leaving his psychological stories no better or worse than anything else.
so he backs off,  saying "nothing really counts in some probative way as ' the ' establishment of mastery" (118).
they probably would not  want to do this, just because it would leave them with all the difficulties  pippin's own view faces, but at any rate there is no special problem for  naturalism here.
the final chapter discusses freedom.
the question of how it is that we can form "depth commitments" that bind us to important life projects, discussed at length by pippin, is similarly tractable (27).
pippin writes that nietzsche's interest in these figures is in their "'stance towards life,' an orientation such that things in a life matter or they don't" (12).
this question comes up repeatedly in chapter 2, when pippin spends much time discussing the "primordiality" of psychology for nietzsche.
copyright © 2012 notre dame philosophical reviews issn: 1538 - 1617 college of arts and letters notre dame, in 46556share
(la rochefoucauld often reveals  putatively moral behavior to be a banal activity tractable within even the most  flatfooted psychological theories -- the pursuit of self-interest.)
rather, self-ascribing a motive is more like provisionally trying out an interpretation (101).
(if pippin leaves us with a psychology that cannot  accomplish this explanatory task, we might ask what makes it psychology at  all.)
pippin  argues that this passage from thegenealogy is incompatible with  naturalism, because naturalistic pictures of the mind involve "some  determinate causal factor 'behind' and 'before' the deed" (74).
everything, that is,  depends on the proper attention to the way he treats the subject-deed  relation" laid out previously (100).
but there is no 'being' behind the deed, its effect and what becomes of it; 'the doer' is invented as an afterthought, -- the deed is everything.
(if pippin leaves us with a psychology that cannot accomplish this explanatory task, we might ask what makes it psychology at all.)
pippin characterizes nietzsche as following the french moralists: pascal, la rochefoucauld, and especially montaigne.
if pippin had presented a detailed picture of how normative commitments during various historical periods genuinely license some psychological claims but not others, perhaps he would be able to give useful psychological explanations.
according to pippin, "nietzsche does not seem interested in  merely naturalizing all talk of motives, goals, intentions, and aversions; he  denies that whole model of behavior, 'root and branch.'"
to do  this, he needs a much better argument against the free will interpretation  discussed above, which will otherwise displace his own.
indeed, his main point seems to be that there is no general philosophical psychology.
instead, self-knowledge is not observational but interpretive and, let us say, always promissory, futural, as complexly interpretive as the interpretive question of just what it is that is being done; action-explanation is not causal, and motives cannot be understood as fixed, datable mental items.
nietzsche certainly was interested in these figures, but pippin leaves it unclear how they take us beyond traditional philosophical psychology or suggest that we should ground psychological claims in normative claims.
and just as the common people separate lightning from its flash, and take the latter to be adeed, something performed by a subject, which is called lightning, popular morality separates strength from the manifestation of strength, as though there were an indifferent substratum behind the strong person which had thefreedom to manifest strength or not.
the "soul" is merely the name for a  collective historical achievement, a mode of self-understanding, of one sort or  another, what we have made ourselves into at one point or another in the  service of some ideal or other.
why couldn't we build a philosophical psychology that would allow us to describe and understand the mental states involved in montaigne's stance towards life?
here pippin characterizes nietzsche's psychology as standing outside the tradition of philosophical psychology from plato to hume to davidson, with philosophers defending positions on such issues as the roles of reason and passion in directing action: nietzsche does not appear to want simply to add another position to this list.
readers impressed by nietzsche's psychological observations may be intrigued by an interpretation that presents psychology as "first philosophy," and read pippin's book for this reason.
while this is  certainly an issue that interests nietzsche, it is an ordinary question for  traditional moral psychology, addressed by philosophers from david hume to  simon blackburn, as well as recent empirical psychologists.
but why it forces us to reject traditional philosophical  psychology is unclear.
he admits that  "philosophically, a great deal more needs to be said before this  understanding of 'the doerin the deed' could be defended," (79) and  lists several difficulties with it, for example "if whatever it is that is  expressed in such deeds is not a stable core or substantial self … what  could form the basis of the temporal story that would link these manifestations  and transformations?"
the major engagement with the naturalist comes in chapter 4, where pippin  discusses nietzsche's famous image of the lightning and its flash:
for example, nietzsche is interested in how montaigne maintained "such a thoroughgoing skepticism and clarity about human frailty and failings without pascal's despair and eventual surrender or la rochefoucauld's icy contempt for the 'human all too human'", and how he became "a thoughtful, ferociously honest, cheerful free spirit, someone who had succeeded at the task of 'making [himself] at home in the world'" (10-11).
he rejects an interpretation on which self-mastery is achieved if one "'gives style' to one's character" (109).
such readers will be surprised at how pippin's interpretation  robs these explanations of their value by denying the fixed and real existence  of the desires and drives which they involve.
this is probably the clearest and most direct statement of the psychological view that pippin attributes to nietzsche.
(i assume that he has brian leiter in mind, but  leiter is never mentioned.)
while this is certainly an issue that interests nietzsche, it is an ordinary question for traditional moral psychology, addressed by philosophers from david hume to simon blackburn, as well as recent empirical psychologists.
this question comes up repeatedly in chapter  2, when pippin spends much time discussing the "primordiality" of  psychology for nietzsche.
they probably would not want to do this, just because it would leave them with all the difficulties pippin's own view faces, but at any rate there is no special problem for naturalism here.
pippin  writes that nietzsche's interest in these figures is in their "'stance  towards life,' an orientation such that things in a life matter or they  don't" (12).
readers impressed by nietzsche's psychological observations may be  intrigued by an interpretation that presents psychology as "first  philosophy," and read pippin's book for this reason.
he gives us little reason to think nietzsche held a view along the  lines described above or to think such a view is independently plausible.
he solves this problem by making the doer "notseparate, distinctive from the activity itself; it is in the deed" (75).
the problem is for views that use mental states in causal explanations, which cross-cuts the naturalist/non-naturalist distinction.
nietzsche's psychological  explanations -- or any others that we regard as the hard truth of the matter --
(this sounds like alexander nehamas' view, but  pippin does not cite him by name.
this is a strange way to conduct an interpretive dispute.
for example, nietzsche is interested in how montaigne  maintained "such a thoroughgoing skepticism and clarity about human  frailty and failings without pascal's despair and eventual surrender or la  rochefoucauld's icy contempt for the 'human all too human'", and how he  became "a thoughtful, ferociously honest, cheerful free spirit, someone  who had succeeded at the task of 'making [himself] at home in the world'"
but the only such picture that has been offered  allows people to interpret themselves however they please, leaving his  psychological stories no better or worse than anything else.
robert pippin, nietzsche, psychology, and first philosophy, u of chicago press, 2010, 139pp., $29.00 (hbk), isbn 9780226669755.
similarly, an actual psychological experiment  he describes in chapter 5 (93-94) is not cited.)
here we might ask pippin how exactly normative commitments are connected to psychological claims, how historical changes play into this relationship, and how the resulting psychology will explain our thoughts, feelings, and actions.
after spending many pages of chapter 5 laying out a model of the mind that makes self-deception an interesting phenomenon, pippin announces that "nietzsche is rejecting this whole model: the account of mindedness, self-knowledge, and action-explanation that it involves.
while  the book's meandering from topic to topic leaves its argumentative structure  unclear, it seems that pippin wants to assemble a set of nietzschean insights  that cannot be accommodated within traditional philosophical psychology,  motivating the idea that nietzsche's psychological views must involve a radical  departure from the tradition.
here  pippin characterizes nietzsche's psychology as standing outside the tradition  of philosophical psychology from plato to hume to davidson, with philosophers  defending positions on such issues as the roles of reason and passion in  directing action: nietzsche does not appear to want simply to add another position to this  list.
pippin seems to embrace this consequence of his view: on such a picture, it is not so paradoxical to suggest that the content of  some avowal and the right act description are so pregnant with plausible  possibilities that the prospect of self-serving or self-aggrandizing  interpretations might not look so counterintuitive (101).
(it is hard to see how the view from his third chapter  that nihilism involves a failure of erotic attachments will avoid the same  problem.)
he wants to use the strangeness of making doers part of deeds to fuel his general argument that nietzsche rejects traditional philosophical psychology.
the "soul" is merely the name for a collective historical achievement, a mode of self-understanding, of one sort or another, what we have made ourselves into at one point or another in the service of some ideal or other.
the major engagement with the naturalist comes in chapter 4, where pippin discusses nietzsche's famous image of the lightning and its flash:
to criticize an interpretation one disagrees with, one should cite something incorrect an interpreter said and present textual evidence that demonstrates its falsity.
after spending many pages of chapter 5 laying out a model of the mind that  makes self-deception an interesting phenomenon, pippin announces that  "nietzsche is rejecting this whole model: the account of mindedness,  self-knowledge, and action-explanation that it involves.
reviewed by  neil sinhababu, national university of singapore robert pippin's goal in nietzsche, psychology, and first philosophy is to present a comprehensive interpretation of what nietzsche means by  'psychology,' what the relationship is, as he understands it, between such a  psychology and traditional philosophy, and why he thinks such a psychology is  (indeed is, as he says, 'now') so important, why it is 'the path to the  fundamental problems' (xi-xii).
what pippin really wants to do here is independent of the naturalism debate.
and just as the common people separate lightning from its flash, and take  the latter to be adeed, something performed by a subject, which is  called lightning, popular morality separates strength from the manifestation of  strength, as though there were an indifferent substratum behind the strong  person which had thefreedom to manifest strength or not.