philosophy is concerned with a wide range of questions including ethics, knowledge and the nature of mind.
the oxford experimental  psychology department is widely regarded as one of the leading psychology  departments in the uk.
careers psychology and philosophy students enter careers in fields including  professional psychology, education, research, medicine, the health services,  finance, commerce, industry, the media and information technology.
philosophy at oxford has active interests in the philosophy of mind and the philosophy of science, and has very close links with those working in neuroscience and psychology.
i then moved to the v&a as an assistant curator.
psychology at oxford is essentially a scientific discipline, involving the rigorous formulation and testing of ideas.
this  is the first step towards becoming a chartered psychologist.
at present, there are particularly strong groups in the fields of human cognitive processes, neuroscience, vision, developmental and social psychology.
this is the first step towards becoming a chartered psychologist.
recent psychology and philosophy graduates include a trainee teacher and a clinical psychologist.
the degree is  accredited as conferring eligibility for the graduate basis for chartered  membership of the british psychological society, provided you study sufficient  psychology and the minimum standard of a second class honours is achieved.
what is psychology and philosophy?what is psychology and philosophy?
careers psychology and philosophy students enter careers in fields including professional psychology, education, research, medicine, the health services, finance, commerce, industry, the media and information technology.
lily, who graduated in 2003, says: ‘after an ma in gallery studies, i worked at the jewish museum.
it works through experiments and  systematic observation rather than introspection.
at present, there are particularly strong groups in the  fields of human cognitive processes, neuroscience, vision, developmental and  social psychology.
psychology includes subjects as diverse as social interaction, learning, child development, schizophrenia and information processing.
some careers  will require further study and/or training after your degree.
i then moved to the v&a as  an assistant curator.
philosophy at oxford has active interests in the  philosophy of mind and the philosophy of science, and has very close links with  those working in neuroscience and psychology.
psychology and philosophy what is psychology and philosophy?
some careers will require further study and/or training after your degree.
recent psychology and philosophy graduates include a trainee teacher and a  clinical psychologist.
it works through experiments and systematic observation rather than introspection.
the oxford philosophy faculty is the largest philosophy department in the uk, and one of the largest in the world.
the oxford philosophy faculty is the largest philosophy department in the  uk, and one of the largest in the world.
ucas course code: cv85ucas course code: cv85 duration of course: 3 years degree awarded: ba intake: 23 applications shortlisted for interview: 70.3% successful applications: 17.6% see experimental psychology psychology department of experimental psychology, south parks road, oxford ox1 3ud +44 (0) 1865 271376 please email us at admissions@psy.ox.ac.uk view psychology website philosophy faculty of philosophy, 10 merton street, oxford ox1 4jj +44 (0) 1865 276926 please email us at enquiries@philosophy.ox.ac.uk view philosophy website
the oxford experimental psychology department is widely regarded as one of the leading psychology departments in the uk.
many faculty members have a worldwide  reputation, and library and other facilities are acknowledged as among the best  in the country.
psychology and philosophy at oxford psychology at oxford is essentially a scientific discipline, involving the  rigorous formulation and testing of ideas.
many faculty members have a worldwide reputation, and library and other facilities are acknowledged as among the best in the country.
psychology includes subjects as diverse as social interaction, learning,  child development, schizophrenia and information processing.
lily, who graduated in 2003, says: ‘after an ma in  gallery studies, i worked at the jewish museum.
i am now the researcher on a major exhibition.’
the degree is accredited as conferring eligibility for the graduate basis for chartered membership of the british psychological society, provided you study sufficient psychology and the minimum standard of a second class honours is achieved.
philosophy is  concerned with a wide range of questions including ethics, knowledge and the  nature of mind.