although there is one in düdtsi-til you can't make it in a daynot if you're traveling by horse.
i do have a plan for building a medical clinic.
she gives at most about 24,000 yuan a year [there are about eight yuan to the us dollar].
she's been to the area where the nunnery was built and stayed five days.
all of the things in the monastery, ritual objects, statues, and so on were distributed by the chinese to the lha-thok familiesmaybe given to the poor families.
damchö rinpoche was marked as a ngapda by the chinese.
wf: was damchö rinpoche harmed in any way?
the whole monastery was destroyed and all the ruins were given away.
she's been to the area where the  nunnery was built and stayed five days.
many people  can't reach a doctor and they die, particularly a lot of young children.
if you go by horse, it takes one day.
vajrakilaya] according to ratna  lingpa, ratna lingpa's vajrakilaya, which took a month to complete, rolpa dorje's terma called deshek tobdü, the concentrated power  of the tathagathas, which also lasted for one month, the khandro tsok gar, the ganachakra dance of the dakinis, which  took ten days.
karma senge: the founder of kyere gompa was khyungdrak dorje.
photo by bob and lindy king, summer 2005 wf: what is your main priority?
the chinese destroyed everything.
the practice of the four armed mahakala, and then, after the 10th trungpa, there was the 11th trungpa and at the  time, thetsasum gongdü, ("embodied realization of the three  roots") was established.
we have also been in touch with gaye carlson who has established a reliable way to send funds to karma senge in kyere.
it varied, but it was  never less than 200 people.
if we built a clinic there, it could  provide care for 2,000 to 3,000 people.
while he was here, we were delighted to present him  with $465 (the $482 minus paypal processing charges) donated by our readers, a  very small step toward a medical clinic in kyere.
i understand that she was a practitioner and that she was a student of khenpo gangshar.
there hasn't been any western medicine except for chinese medicine.
while he was here, we were delighted to present him with $465 (the $482 minus paypal processing charges) donated by our readers, a very small step toward a medical clinic in kyere.
and düdtsi-til is not part of lha-thok?
when he was four he started doing the nyengyü practice and he finished this year.
first, drupchen karma norbu.
each day there would be between 200 to  500 people practicing the nyungne with the 10th trunpga.
then, on his way to india, the 16th karmapa rigpe dorje told karma  norbu not to go.
one lama in particular has been  practicing nyungne for about 15 years without a break.
there's a continuation of that even now; many  people practice nyungne at kyere gompa.
it was the  previous trungpa, the 10th trungpa who placed him as his regent.
the trees aren't  very far away, but most people have to carry the wood on their backs or by yak.
there's no electricity, so we need wood for fuel.
because of that, the land, the monastery and everything now belongs to surmang.
a ngapda is a title and it means that you're a criminal.
so, when i go back to kyere at the end of july,  we'll get started on the work for the clinic.
a small gift to ksr from chronicles readers.
it would be greatly beneficial.
kyere, a remote area about 25 air miles south of düdtsi-til, has been home to trungpa rinpoche's immediate family since he left tibet in 1959.
wf: were all the buildings at kyere gompa destroyed during the cultural  revolution?
if i could build this clinic, it's like the generosity of giving life, saving lives.
konchok foundation update
he drank only a drop of water and a bit of food each day -- about that much (ksr holds up his thumb and index fingers half an inch apart.)
did she have a chance to spend a lot of her later years in meditation or retreat?
ksr: these days, i have full responsibility for everything at kyere gompa.
_____________________
drupchen karma norbu ksr: karma norbu was a pupil of the 10th trungpa rinpoche, and he was there  with the 11th trungpa rinpoche at tsawa gön when trungpa rinpoche did the  rinchen terzod empowerment.
would you like us to say that funding is needed for a medical facility in kyere?
no, düdtsi-til is in nangchen.
does anyone know how long a khontirs is?
the chronicles of ctr design: kikker.com
and the youngest is dechen, who is about 14 or 15 years old and is a monk  at kyere gompa.
in particular, the 10th trungpa would do a hundred pairs of nyungne each year at kyere gompa.
he was like jetsun milerapa.
i think many of us would like to know how things are there and what your needs are.
he and kalu rinpoche were companions in  retreat.
they built a slightly larger temple than that of  khyungdrak dorje and they created a retreat center for the nyengyü2.
there are a lot of tibetan doctors and these days many people are  sick.
in particular, the 10th trungpa would do a hundred pairs of nyungne  each year at kyere gompa.
we would need both tibetan and chinese medicine.
yes, about 100 years.
they were  tending their yak herd when we drove up in the late twilight.
wf: was the family safe in kyere?
should we send the money we raise to her?
wf: what about the clinic in düdtsi-til?
it's an expansive area and it's centrally located.
so instead of paying the king, these families paid the monastery.
yes, it's a tibetan doctor.
surmang hearing lineage tradition, a special chakrasamvara teaching of surmang, originally handed down by tilopa.go back 3 tsawa gang is where lady könchok, sakyong mipham's mother is from.
wf: i'm going to publish this interview about kyere gompa and everything  you've told me today on the chronicles website.
wf: did rinpoche's mother have to hide her identity?
so, damchö rinpoche was marked as a ngapda because he was a lama, but the rest of the family was not.
trungpa rinpoche's youngest sister tri-me palmo and her son with bob and lindy king this photo was taken in july 2005 during bob and lindy's visit to kham.
because of that, the  land, the monastery and everything now belongs to surmang.
the land where kyere gompa is located is part of lha-thok.
he told him to stay in tibet and to take responsibility for recognizing all the tulkus reborn in kham.
wf: did you travel away from kyere and düdtsi-til at some point to study?
though it's not entirely clear, kyere gompa  was probably founded in the water female ox year of the tenth sixty year cycle  [1673].
yes, my main lama was karma norbu, and i was also a student of khenpo karma tseten, those two.
wf: were all the buildings at kyere gompa destroyed during the cultural revolution?
some  people have taken some chinese medicine.
at most she sends that much  and sometimes it's less, around 5,000 to 6,000 yuan.
so the monastery has been around since then.
karseng rinpoche at weyching ani gompa (nunnery) in kyere.
these were independent kingdoms, neither  under tibet nor under china, and they all had equal status.
and the youngest is dechen, who is about 14 or 15 years old and is a monk at kyere gompa.
there's a woman in san  francisco named gaye carlson.
wf: is that a tibetan doctor?
it was rebuilt about twenty five years ago, but it still hasn't been built properly.
they built a slightly larger temple than that of khyungdrak dorje and they created a retreat center for the nyengyü2.
i built a nunnery with her donations and  she continues to send money every year.
photo by marvin moore enter the dragon touch and go now screening at culture unplugged film festival love, relationship, and illusion:
there are four kingdoms of kham:  lha-thok, dege, ling, and nangchen.
there are four kingdoms of kham: lha-thok, dege, ling, and nangchen.
the patron responsible for the revival and rebuilding of kyere gompa was the 50th king of lha-thok, sonam gyurme.
every year kyere gompa received  something like 100,000 yuan from these families [us $12,500 at current exchange  rates].
the people in the community said that even though the chinese knew that  she was trungpa rinpoche's mother, she hadn't committed any crime, so she was  not to blame.
wf: who recognized you as a tulku?
we are pleased to have the opportunity to work with the translators.
the second  day, you don't need to drink, just practice all day.
wf: so you had to do sadhana practice in private, quietly?
so there are different classes of tertons, the nine lingspas, and the 108 lingpas.
it is possible to send money to the clinic.
we have also been in touch with  gaye carlson who has established a reliable way to send funds to karma senge in  kyere.
photo by gaye carlson wf: were the 10th and 11th trungpas the main rinpoches for kyere gompa?
but your family was safe?
wf: would it be proper to refer to you as the mukpos?
it was the previous trungpa, the 10th trungpa who placed him as his regent.
although there is one in düdtsi-til you can't make it in a  day—not if you're traveling by horse.
i'd  also like to ask about your family, trungpa rinpoche's family—your  brothers and sisters and other family members who are living in kyere and  elsewhere in kham.
please see interview with karma senge rinpoche for more information on kyere and ctr's family members who have lived there since 1959.
in terms of ongoing support, the konchok foundation has agreed to accept  tax deductible donations earmarked for kyere.
karseng rinpoche's brother, sonam wangdu, was present during the interview.
photo by bob and lindy king, summer 2005 wf: could you talk about the needs of the people in kyere now?
all of the  things in the monastery, ritual objects, statues, and so on were distributed by  the chinese to the lha-thok families—maybe given to the poor families.
wf: could you list who those 10 siblings are?
each one lasts two days, so he did 100  nyungnes in 200 days.
there's no hospital or clinic.
there he was the  retreat lama at tsurphu monastery.
wf: do people in kyere prefer to see a tibetan doctor or a western doctor?
thinking that, i acquired this land and have made plans to build a clinic there.
wf: i understand that there are ten siblings altogether, including yourself and sonam?
the first shambhala day
there is a  doctor in kyere, but he doesn't have any medical facilities.
wf: did you travel away from kyere and düdtsi-til at some point to  study?
she was  related to both trungpa's father and mother.
yes, it wasn't dangerous because all of the lha-thok people had such great faith in trungpa rinpoche.
under me is a brother, ati rinpoche, who is a tulku of drunglam gompa, a big karma kamtsang monastery in dege, a sister, sonam chokyi, who is married and lives near jekundo, another sister, gyume chodron, who lives with her family near kyere gompa, a sister, tseyang lhamo, who also lives with her family near kyere gompa, a brother, who is married and lives with his family near kyere gompa, another brother, jangchub chopel, who lives at kyere gompa with my father and is not married, nor is he a monk, a sister, tinle yongtsam, who is 30 years old and has a family, sonam wangdu, is a monk at kyere gompa.
i was recognized when i was about 13 or 14.
people don't have cars.
so it seems khyungdrak dorje was one among these nine nüden dorjes1.
did she have a chance to spend a lot of her later years in meditation  or retreat?
he was one of  the nüden dorje tertöns of two categories of eight and 16 tertön  lingpas.
dorje, and the fifth dalai lama.
many people can't reach a doctor and they die, particularly a lot of young children.
i think this  will really help us to begin to connect more fully to the mukpo family and the  sangha in kyere.
wf: how did he keep damchö rinpoche safe?
if you need to go to a clinic, you have  to walk or go by horse.
surmang hearing lineage tradition, a special chakrasamvara  teaching of surmang, originally handed down by tilopa.go back 3 tsawa gang is where lady könchok, sakyong mipham's mother is from.
there  were 100 families who lived near kyere gompa who were tied to the monastery.
i myself don't  have the wealth, but i have a very strong intention to help people by building  this medical clinic.
both the 10th and the 11th trungpa spent about five to six months there  each year.
please visitweyching gompa for a look at the wonderful work that gaye has undertaken.
[sonam is traveling with ksr as his attendant and is present during this interview.]
go back 4 chinese medicine.
one of the classes of important tertöns: the eight and sixteen lingpas, the 108 tertöns, and so on.go back 2 nyengyü.
when he was  four he started doing the nyengyü practice and he finished this year.
an audio valentine from chögyam trungpa necessary angel: an interview with henry schaeffer by bill scheffel
i do have a plan  for building a medical clinic.
_____________________ kyere medical clinic fund
so the king of  lha-thok, sonam gyurme, revived kyere gompa for his lama the 10th trungpa  rinpoche, chökyi nyinche.
the first day you don't eat after noon, but you can drink.
there's a doctor,  but no medicine.
after the nyungnes, the 10th trungpa would give everyone the nyungne  empowerment, instructions and teachings.
so then there was no blame against damchö rinpoche.
yes, i've studied with karma norbu at gyu-ne in dege.
wf: i'm going to publish this interview about kyere gompa and everything you've told me today on the chronicles website.
i think that would be really helpful.
wf: in your own life at that time, did you have to hide the fact that you were a rinpoche?
he only wore a thin white cotton shawl or zen (outer monk's robe) and apart from that he was naked.
at most she sends that much and sometimes it's less, around 5,000 to 6,000 yuan.
karma senge rinpoche receives a small gift donated by chronicles readers.
everyone in the lha-thok had to pay taxes to the king.
i myself don't have the wealth, but i have a very strong intention to help people by building this medical clinic.
i think many of us would like to know how things are there  and what your needs are.
trungpa the main tulku for kyere gompa?
wf: if a clinic were to be built, should it be a modern medical clinic or would people prefer to have traditional tibetan medicine?
there were five family members: his mother tungtso drölma, his sister kalsang drölma (who is my mother), his brother damchö tenphel rinpoche, and his younger sister tri-me palmo.
trungpa rinpoche's youngest sister tri-me palmo and her son with  bob and lindy king this photo was taken in july 2005 during bob and  lindy's visit to kham.
wf: you weren't discovered as a tulku until later?
damchö rinpoche was marked as a  ngapda by the chinese.
please visitweyching gompa for a look at the wonderful work that gaye  has undertaken.
although karma senge rinpoche and mr. seagal have not met face to face, they had several video conferences during ksr's visit to north america last summer.
in this interview karma senge rinpoche talks a little bit about the history of kyere gompa, the needs of the people in the region, and his plans to build a medical clinic there.
some people have taken some chinese medicine.
if we built a clinic there, it could provide care for 2,000 to 3,000 people.
you also do ten circumambulations every day.
no, he was never harmed because of tülku drubgyü, who was  trungpa rinpoche's regent or representative at kyere monastary.
but it's not a part of the surmang land.
wf: i would like to know a bit more about trungpa rinpoche's mother, your grandmother.
so instead of paying the  king, these families paid the monastery.
he was one of the nüden dorje tertöns of two categories of eight and 16 tertön lingpas.
wf: what facilities are needed?
one day he sent two monks named tsado and sönam tseten to surmang  with a message for his family.
there's a doctor, but no medicine.
yes, my main lama was karma norbu, and i was also a student of khenpo  karma tseten, those two.
after the interview, peter roberts commented that when  karseng rinpoche refers to chinese medicine, he's talking aboutmodern medicine or what we would callwestern medicine, rather traditional  chinese medicine.go back 5 khontris.
would you like us to say that  funding is needed for a medical facility in kyere?
interview with karma senge about kyere gompa photograph by marvin moore halifax, 10 july 2005
wf: so that was just in the last 100 years?
yes, he was the principle one.
photo by bob and lindy king, summer 2005 lyndon comstock wrote in to say that her name is galde lhaso (phonetic spelling).
many great practices were performed each year, including the drupchen of dorje phurba
the 10th trungpa was the main rinpoche.
they were tending their yak herd when we drove up in the late twilight.
yes, trungpa rinpoche has given us title mukpo.
so, damchö rinpoche was marked as a ngapda because he was a lama, but the  rest of the family was not.
and he's the one who recognized you as a tulku?
i am the oldest, karma senge.
she was related to both trungpa's father and mother.
it was his monastery.
karma senge was in halifax for three weeks in june 2006 to attend the blossoming of the sun wedding festival and to work with the nalanda translation committee.
everyone knew that she was trungpa rinpoche's mother.
_____________________ khyungdrak dorje's tülku steven seagal in february of 1997, his holiness penor rinpoche recognized the hollywood action star, steven seagal as an incarnation of khyungdrak dorje, the founder of kyere gompa.
i'm interested in knowing about her practice and  what she was like.
karma norbu was also the pupil of the second jamgön kongtrül, situ pema wangchub (the 11th situ), and chenzig chuju lodro.
before trungpa rinpoche left for india, he was staying at tsawa  gang3.
yes, everything was destroyed.
well, she sends money over.
karma norbu was also the pupil of the second  jamgön kongtrül, situ pema wangchub (the 11th situ), and chenzig  chuju lodro.
after the interview, peter roberts commented that when karseng rinpoche refers to chinese medicine, he's talking aboutmodern medicine or what we would callwestern medicine, rather traditional chinese medicine.go back 5 khontris.
you also do ten  circumambulations every day.
the journey east, a clip from iron bird
he spent four years in retreat at dorje khyung dzong in düdtsi-til, then six years in palpu retreat.
though it's not entirely clear, kyere gompa was probably founded in the water female ox year of the tenth sixty year cycle [1673].
she gives at most about 24,000 yuan a  year [there are about eight yuan to the us dollar].
but it went through a  period of decline.
they could only practice in secret, without anyone seeing anything.
wf: i would like to know a bit more about trungpa rinpoche's mother, your  grandmother.
wf: well, thank you very much for this interview rinpoche.
i built a nunnery with her donations and she continues to send money every year.
both the 10th and the 11th trungpa spent about five to six months there each year.
hopefully the chronicles could encourage donations that will help support the work that you are doing and needs of the people in kyere.
there was also a nun  named ani palmo who came with them and lived with them at kyere.
he only wore a thin white cotton shawl or zen  (outer monk's robe) and apart from that he was naked.
according to jamgön kongtrül's biography of the 108 tertöns, khyungdrak dorje was a contemporary of the 10th karmapa, the first mingyur dorje, and the fifth dalai lama.
the following conversation with karma senge (karseng) rinpoche was interpreted by peter roberts, transcribed by jessie litven (who has since become an apprentice with the nalanda translation committee), and reviewed by larry mermelstein.
each one lasts two days, so he did 100 nyungnes in 200 days.
here is aletter from penor rinpoche regarding mr. seagal.
vajrakilaya] according to ratna lingpa, ratna lingpa's vajrakilaya, which took a month to complete, rolpa dorje's terma called deshek tobdü, the concentrated power of the tathagathas, which also lasted for one month, the khandro tsok gar, the ganachakra dance of the dakinis, which took ten days.
it varied, but it was never less than 200 people.
there are a lot of tibetan doctors and these days many people are sick.
karma senge was in halifax for three weeks in june 2006 to attend the blossoming of the sun wedding festival and to work with the nalanda  translation committee.
address [audio 9:15] tour the great eastern sun exhibit in halifax [video 8:36]
although karma senge rinpoche and mr. seagal have not met face to face, they  had several video conferences during ksr's visit to north america last summer.
there were five family members: his mother tungtso drölma,  his sister kalsang drölma (who is my mother), his brother damchö  tenphel rinpoche, and his younger sister tri-me palmo.
_____________________ tülku steven seagal in february of 1997, his holiness penor rinpoche recognized the hollywood  action star, steven seagal as an incarnation of khyungdrak dorje, the founder  of kyere gompa.
he told him to stay in tibet and to take responsibility for  recognizing all the tulkus reborn in kham.
we have also provided a way for people to contribute towards this project.
wf: what about medical facilities?
the 2nd day you don't eat or drink at all, and you don't  speak.
[sonam is traveling with ksr as his  attendant and is present during this interview.]
we have also provided a way for people to contribute  towards this project.
because of that they protected trungpa rinpoche's mother and family very well.
photo by bob and lindy king, summer 2005 lyndon comstock  wrote in to say that her name is galde lhaso (phonetic spelling).
karma senge stands on the medical clinic site.
the 2nd day you don't eat or drink at all, and you don't speak.
one of the classes of important tertöns: the eight and  sixteen lingpas, the 108 tertöns, and so on.go back 2 nyengyü.
he drank only a drop of water and a  bit of food each day -- about that much (ksr holds up his thumb and index  fingers half an inch apart.)
we are pleased to have the opportunity to work with the  translators.
karseng rinpoche with his wife (does anyone know her name?)
the patron responsible for the revival and rebuilding of kyere gompa was  the 50th king of lha-thok, sonam gyurme.
drupchen karma norbu ksr: karma norbu was a pupil of the 10th trungpa rinpoche, and he was there with the 11th trungpa rinpoche at tsawa gön when trungpa rinpoche did the rinchen terzod empowerment.
this income supported the practices that where done at kyere gompa.
one day he sent two monks named tsado and sönam tseten to surmang with a message for his family.
lindy writes: it was very late as you can see, in open country with only one house nearby, most likely theirs.
the following conversation with karma senge (karseng) rinpoche was  interpreted by peter roberts, transcribed by jessie litven (who has since  become an apprentice with the nalanda translation committee), and reviewed by  larry mermelstein.
these funds are used for  the nunnery.
the practice of the four armed mahakala, and then, after the 10th trungpa, there was the 11th trungpa and at the time, thetsasum gongdü, ("embodied realization of the three roots") was established.
there  are a lot of people with severe headaches, other illnesses, etc.
wf: rinpoche, rather than asking you for further stories about trungpa  rinpoche today, i'd like to ask you to talk about kyere gompa (monastery).
please see  interview with karma senge rinpoche for more information on kyere and ctr's  family members who have lived there since 1959.
i understand that she was a practitioner and that she was a  student of khenpo gangshar.
the trees aren't very far away, but most people have to carry the wood on their backs or by yak.
kyere photo by gaye carlson wf: were the 10th and 11th trungpas the main rinpoches for kyere gompa?
wf: if the people here and in the west in general wanted to send money to  you to help build this facility, how could they do that?
each day there would be between 200 to 500 people practicing the nyungne with the 10th trunpga.
wf: if the people here and in the west in general wanted to send money to you to help build this facility, how could they do that?
wf: i understand that there are ten siblings altogether, including yourself  and sonam?
it seems that she did practice but there were no retreats during that period of time.
i think this will really help us to begin to connect more fully to the mukpo family and the sangha in kyere.
[video: 7:23] celebrating the twenty fifth
after that, he went to u (central tibet) and lhasa.
wf: if a clinic were to be built, should it be a modern medical clinic or  would people prefer to have traditional tibetan medicine?
tülku drubgyü took on the blame himself and spent 22 years in prison.
in terms of ongoing support, the konchok foundation has agreed to accept tax deductible donations earmarked for kyere.
wf: i understand that before trungpa rinpoche left tibet, he moved his family from düdtsi-til to kyere because he felt it would be safer for them there.
no. wf: i thought kyere was one of the surmang monasteries.
the people in the community said that even though the chinese knew that she was trungpa rinpoche's mother, she hadn't committed any crime, so she was not to blame.
the message was that they should move to kyere.
there was also a nun named ani palmo who came with them and lived with them at kyere.
when our mother died, deche was about one year old.
but surmang is the whole area?
so, when i go back to kyere at the end of july, we'll get started on the work for the clinic.
it seems that she did practice but there were no retreats during that  period of time.
it's an  expansive area and it's centrally located.
thinking that, i acquired this land and have made  plans to build a clinic there.
if you need to go to a clinic, you have to walk or go by horse.
one lama in particular has been practicing nyungne for about 15 years without a break.
according to jamgön kongtrül's biography of the 108 tertöns,  khyungdrak dorje was a contemporary of the 10th karmapa, the first mingyur
so it seems khyungdrak dorje was one among these nine nüden  dorjes1.
there is a doctor in kyere, but he doesn't have any medical facilities.
but it's not a part of the surmang  land.
tülku drubgyü took on the blame himself and spent 22 years  in prison.
wf: rinpoche, rather than asking you for further stories about trungpa rinpoche today, i'd like to ask you to talk about kyere gompa (monastery).
there's a woman in san francisco named gaye carlson.
so there are different classes of tertons, the nine lingspas, and the  108 lingpas.
a condensed version of this interview is available on thentc site.
yes, it is a surmang monastery.
yes, it wasn't dangerous because all of the lha-thok people had such  great faith in trungpa rinpoche.
photo by bob and  lindy king, summer 2005 wf: what is your main priority?
these were independent kingdoms, neither under tibet nor under china, and they all had equal status.
these funds are used for the nunnery.
it's three stories high.
there are a lot of people with severe headaches, other illnesses, etc.
the most important thing is the medical clinic.
wf: in your own life at that time, did you have to hide the fact that you  were a rinpoche?
if i could build this clinic, it's like the generosity of  giving life, saving lives.
nyungne, the fasting practice.
the land  where kyere gompa is located is part of lha-thok.
but it went through a period of decline.
i didn't have the title of a rinpoche.
before trungpa rinpoche left for india, he was staying at tsawa gang3.
kyere (click to enlarge)
after the nyungnes, the 10th trungpa would give everyone the nyungne empowerment, instructions and teachings.
under me is a brother, ati rinpoche, who is a tulku of drunglam gompa, a big karma  kamtsang monastery in dege, a sister, sonam chokyi, who is married and lives near jekundo, another sister, gyume chodron, who lives with her family near kyere gompa, a sister, tseyang lhamo, who also lives with her family near kyere gompa, a brother, who is married and lives with his family near kyere gompa, another brother, jangchub chopel, who lives at kyere gompa with my father  and is not married, nor is he a monk, a sister, tinle yongtsam, who is 30 years old and has a family, sonam wangdu, is a monk at kyere gompa.
please seehow to donate funds below.
hopefully the chronicles could encourage donations  that will help support the work that you are doing and needs of the people in  kyere.
the king of lha-thok offered it to the 10th trungpa.
wf: i understand that before trungpa rinpoche left tibet, he moved his  family from düdtsi-til to kyere because he felt it would be safer for them  there.
he and kalu rinpoche were companions in retreat.
there were 100 families who lived near kyere gompa who were tied to the monastery.
then, on his way to india, the 16th karmapa rigpe dorje told karma norbu not to go.
there's a continuation of that even now; many people practice nyungne at kyere gompa.
there's a main temple, which is probably about 24-25 khontris wide.5 wf: has it been rebuilt since the chinese tore it down?
wf: was he your lama?
on retreat in charlemont: silent footage from 1972, by vivian kurz the gradual path of raising buddhist children: a conversation with thinley norbu rinpoche from the vajradhatu sun, 1992 inner chronicles: face-to-face in halifax work sex money: seminar three, talk three: klesha activity [audio 46:28] ocean of dharma: a shambhala sun feature on chögyam trungpa by barry boyce tribute to arbie thalacker chronicles highlights 2011 chronicles holiday sampler next photograph by marvin moore halifax, 10 july 2005
it was rebuilt about twenty five years ago,  but it still hasn't been built properly.
reciting anything was against the chinese law.
i'd also like to ask about your family, trungpa rinpoche's familyyour brothers and sisters and other family members who are living in kyere and elsewhere in kham.
wf: is she raising money for the clinic?
_____________________ ksr: that would be fine.
kyere, a remote area about 25 air miles south of düdtsi-til, has  been home to trungpa rinpoche's immediate family since he left tibet in 1959.
so the king of lha-thok, sonam gyurme, revived kyere gompa for his lama the 10th trungpa rinpoche, chökyi nyinche.
the second day, you don't need to drink, just practice all day.
in this interview karma senge rinpoche talks a little bit about the history of  kyere gompa, the needs of the people in the region, and his plans to build a  medical clinic there.
because of that they protected trungpa  rinpoche's mother and family very well.
the two of them revived kyere monastery together.
yes, there wasn't any danger.
lindy writes: it was very late as you can see,  in open country with only one house nearby, most likely theirs.
no, he was never harmed because of tülku drubgyü, who was trungpa rinpoche's regent or representative at kyere monastary.
every year kyere gompa received something like 100,000 yuan from these families [us $12,500 at current exchange rates].
he spent four years in  retreat at dorje khyung dzong in düdtsi-til, then six years in palpu  retreat.
i'm interested in knowing about her practice and what she was like.
there he was the retreat lama at tsurphu monastery.
there is a 500 khontris piece of land.
wf: i'll talk to gaye.