by the way, that's called edumucation.
what you do: - email us your article in text only, ms word, or html format one month ahead of time - email us any gif's or jpg's you want to include (sending them as part of a word document is ok for reference, but we still need the gif or jpg sent as an email attachment).
i will  discuss these issues with you before we publish it.
get in on the ground floor.
- get in on the ground floor.
the language we prefer at the pulse is quite different from what you'll read in the professional journals.
if you copy text from somewhere else without quoting it, that's plagiarism andplagiarism is baaaaad.
our goal is to give readers digestible soundbites to chew on, not to turn them into tcm practitioners.
you will reach a large growing audience of the general public (gp).
by the way,  that's called edumucation.
- build your practice, drive your career forward.
we get about 50,000 unique visitors per month as of october, 2004.
the language we prefer at the  pulse is quite different from what you'll read in the professional journals.
if they  want more, they'll ask for it.
elements of any article i. analogies, metaphors, similes - keep the reader's attention and make yourself clear by using one of these  devices.
you have a gift from god to make it so interesting & educational.
all information herein provided is for educational  use only and not meant to substitute for the advice of appropriate local  experts and authorities.
editing since the pulse is a web-resource, our word-choice often is guided by what terms the public searches for most often.
if you don't yet know how to write this way, you'll soon learn!
i've found it a much better option  than yellow pages, etc.
missed deadlines without contact or too many late articles mean your writer spot opens up to someone who really wants to write for the pulse.
resource - factually oriented info, a comprehensive article or set of articles iv.
however, we can use both terms to  meet them where they're at and take them where we want them to be.
everyone who lists here gets from a few  prospect calls a month, to a few a week.
i love that you linked the book titles to amazon.com and that the reader can jump to areas of the article.
optimize the article and html for relevant search engine keywords and  submit the article to the search engines.
what interests acupuncturists and students is likely to get the 'back' button from the general public.
for example, i think 'oriental medicine' is a more accurate description of our medicine, but people actually search for 'chinese medicine' 15 times as often!
writers will receive feature status in the pulse's practitioner  locating database.
we charge practitioners who don't write an article $95 a year to list with us.
you are free to  re-publish and distribute your work anywhere anytime.
we charge practitioners who don't write an article $95  a year to list with us.
- style: use and develop your own voice within these parameters: i.be personable, simple, fun, interesting, relevant, deep, and inspiring.
if they want more, they'll ask for it.
- become a pro at talking to the gp.
always use the word 'you' instead of 'one' etc. - it's more personal that way.
if you have ideas to add,  or a good rationale for your approach, i will welcome your thoughts!
- elements of any article i. analogies, metaphors, similes - keep the reader's attention and make yourself clear by using one of these devices.
comparison of western and eastern diagnosis and treatment iv.
you are not responsible to choose words in this way;  our editors will make this change for you (while of course preserving your  article's style and strengths).
- commitment - column topics - article topics - writing guidelines - editing - what you do, what we do how will columnists benefit?
if  you don't yet know how to write this way, you'll soon learn!
what i do: edit for grammar and audience.
keep the technical discussions of tcm pathomechanisms to a  minimum or even to zero; if it requires more than a paragraph of background,  don't go there!
i've found it a much better option than yellow pages, etc.
- you keep your copyright (some mags don't let you!).
statistics, chinese pattern diagnosis, oriental medical  treatment, basic western medical info, lifestyle, diet solutions, herbs,  vitamins and minerals etc. iii.
resource - factually oriented info, a comprehensive article or set of  articles iv.
style: use and develop your own voice within these parameters: i.be personable, simple, fun, interesting, relevant, deep, and inspiring.
if you copy text from  somewhere else without quoting it, that's plagiarism andplagiarism is  baaaaad.
writing guidelines word count per article: 1000-1500 words.
we get about 50,000 unique  visitors per month as of october, 2004.
become a pro at talking to the gp.
i will discuss these issues with you before we publish it.
you keep your copyright (some mags don't let you!).
in that case, go ahead!
all information herein provided is for educational use only and not meant to substitute for the advice of appropriate local experts and authorities.
editing since the pulse is a web-resource, our word-choice often is guided by what  terms the public searches for most often.
thanks for enriching the writing like that.
this locator receives more general public traffic than any other (patients not peers!), and featured acupuncturists (that's you) are more likely to get the patients.
since i found that out, i've been writing 'chinese medicine.'
comparison of western and  eastern diagnosis and treatment iv.
check the pulse's existing articles to see if your topic is new (go to the main page and use the search box).
our goal is to give readers digestible  soundbites to chew on, not to turn them into tcm practitioners.
the article looks great.
some of these people will become your  patients.
since i found that  out, i've been writing 'chinese medicine.'
- optimize the article and html for relevant search engine keywords and submit the article to the search engines.
and, if you plan to write books to the general public, this is a  great way to get started.
- put the article into pulse's html format.
what interests acupuncturists and students is likely to get the  'back' button from the general public.
v. provide links to any websites or resources you use in writing.
what i do: - edit for grammar and audience.
- possible formats: i. q&a - answer a real patient question ii.
everyone who lists here gets from a few prospect calls a month, to a few a week.
what you do, what we do how will columnists benefit?
missed deadlines without contact or too many late articles mean your  writer spot opens up to someone who really wants to write for the pulse.
this locator receives more general public traffic than  any other (patients not peers!), and featured acupuncturists (that's you) are  more likely to get the patients.
if you have ideas to add, or a good rationale for your approach, i will welcome your thoughts!
even if it isn't,  you may have a new angle (e.g. if you want to cover vitamin and mineral  treatments for schizophrenia; at the time of this writing, there is a  schizophrenia article, but it does not include vitamin and mineral  information).
and, if you plan to write books to the general public, this is a great way to get started.
actually, i hope the pulse is on the  second or third floor by now... article topics you are free to choose any disease, condition, herb, modality, etc.
some of these people will become your patients.
copyright 1999-2074, pulse media international
story - tell your own, or a patient's story iii.
that you want to focus on.
you are free to re-publish and distribute your work anywhere anytime.
- how will pulse writers benefit?
since i've been writing about om for the public for 3 years, i may have other unconscious and semiconscious wisdom in this regard that will not emerge until i'm editing your article.
you will reach a  large growing audience of the general public (gp).
however, we can use both terms to meet them where they're at and take them where we want them to be.
by focusing on chinese medicine, we advance the chinese medicine profession in the u.s. and internationally.
build your practice, drive your career forward.
keep in touch if you have a reasonable emergency or are running  late.
- keep in touch if you have a reasonable emergency or are running late.
i am so honored to have met you & to be able to write in your web site.
well, juliette thank you, thank you and your great staff for the magnificent presentation of prime enzyme nutrition part i. your ability to organize, edit and update the article i sent to you and make helpful links of information to your readers is truly amazing dr. nickel write for the pulse of oriental medicine!
check the pulse's existing articles to see if your  topic is new (go to the main page and use the search box).
you are a wonderful man & may god bless you & your family, dr. michel f. garay i love working with you because you take what i've written and arrange it a very easy to read format for for the reader.
you can get in there just by writing a 1000 word article.
the pulse's mission is to make alternative medicine easy and practical for regular folks.
- writers will receive feature status in the pulse's practitioner locating database.
what you do: email us your article in text only, ms word, or html format one  month ahead of time email us any gif's or jpg's you want to include (sending them as  part of a word document is ok for reference, but we still need the gif or jpg  sent as an email attachment).
tm alternative medicine that works for regular folks updated october 13, 2004 search this site the web - welcome - diseases & conditions a-z - acupuncture & oriental medicine basics - chinese herbs - monthly email newsletter (beingwell) - acupuncturists & herbalists - pulse message board - books - about the pulse - contact us - write for the pulse
possible formats: i. q&a - answer a real patient  question ii.
even if it isn't, you may have a new angle (e.g. if you want to cover vitamin and mineral treatments for schizophrenia; at the time of this writing, there is a schizophrenia article, but it does not include vitamin and mineral information).
writing guidelines - word count per article: 1000-1500 words.
actually, i hope the pulse is on the second or third floor by now... article topics you are free to choose any disease, condition, herb, modality, etc.
since i've been writing about om for  the public for 3 years, i may have other unconscious and semiconscious wisdom  in this regard that will not emerge until i'm editing your article.
you are not responsible to choose words in this way; our editors will make this change for you (while of course preserving your article's style and strengths).
put the article into pulse's html format.
keep the technical discussions of tcm pathomechanisms to a minimum or even to zero; if it requires more than a paragraph of background, don't go there!
statistics, chinese pattern diagnosis, oriental medical treatment, basic western medical info, lifestyle, diet solutions, herbs, vitamins and minerals etc. iii.
you can get in there just by writing a 1000 word  article.
for example, i think 'oriental  medicine' is a more accurate description of our medicine, but people actually search for 'chinese medicine' 15 times as often!
an invitation from brian carter write for the general public.
i also liked that you emboldend sentences and phrases in the article.