autism is about  stealing lives.
for thrush a capsule can also be opened in  some water and used daily as a mouth rinse.
the longer a persons goes without  treatment, the longer the recovery time.
acupuncture is very beneficial when it comes to pre and post surgery.
it's not whom you connect with; it's how do you feel when you connect with them.
"can western science provide a foundation for  acupuncture"- beverly rubik, phd. alternative therapies magazine  september 1995, vol.
do  you long for someone who impersonates the mystical kindness of girlchild or do  you hunger for the zestful enthusiasm of a boychild warrior?
it is an archetype of the collective unconscious and not an aggregate of father or mother, brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles or teachers, though these aspects of the personal unconscious can influence for good or ill the person.
when their archetype goes negative, they become overcompetitive, aggressive, and tend to run over others.
but it is critical that the cause of autism must be believed to be some vague general pollution, parental neglect, or genetics.
international journal of pediatric otorhinolaryngology 69(9): 1199-1204.
biochemical theories most of the scientific studies of acupuncture  have been centered on the analgesic aspects of pain relief.
an antihistamine serves to reduce or eliminate the effects brought  on by histamine, a chemical mediator released during allergic reactions.
feverfew has the potential to react with warfarin anti- coagulants, increasing the thinning of blood.
some people are more comfortable with one archetype than another, and seek that energy in their relationships.
the persona, for jung, was the social face the individual presented to the world - 'a kind of mask, designed on the one hand to make a definite impression upon others, and on the other to conceal the true nature of the individual'.
use all barrier  only once and only on one person.
for thrush a capsule can also be opened in some water and used daily as a mouth rinse.
people who have a strong girlchild archetype go with the flow.
in a few cases, the symptoms may never completely disappear.
you should not use this information to diagnose or  treat a health problem or disease without consulting with a qualified  healthcare provider.
by therese emmanuel grey archetypes are visual symbols or energetic imprints that exist in our psyches.
in the book the invisible partners it is said that the key to controlling one's anima (animus) is to recognize it when it manifests and exercise our ability to discern the anima (animus) from reality.
boxwood: has been shown in research to foster immune stimulation and promotion of t-cell activation.
second, re-introduce the food (one at a time only) back into your  diet for a week.
contains ephedrine, which can open up bronchial passages.
when their father energy goes out of balance and becomes unloving, they can become harsh and critical toward themselves and others.
instead they are "functional" organs.
free radicals promote beneficial oxidation that produces energy and kills bacterial invaders.
the  alignment in the very core of your soul needs to be shifted and tuned until you  can feel the balance of alignment.
proacumed inc. "purveyors of healthy qi" order online or call 917 843 3623 tel
vibrational medicine for the 21 century- richard gerber m.d. eagle brook, ny, ny 2000 ï¿½ "acupuncture and chinese medicine" 10.
jung's emphasis in the field in psychology had to do with dreams.
someone who is diagnosed as infected with hiv is said to be 'hiv+' or 'hiv positive'.
air-conditioning your house is probably the single most important thing you can do to alleviate pollen problems, and it can help with two other chief inhalants:mold and dust mites.
it's also used to relieve insomnia  and nervousness.
this gives us the advantage, even during surgery since acupuncture can regulate blood and body fluids.
do not take with diabetes medication because it may cause a decrease in blood sugars.
infant girls also have higher glutathione levels, a  powerful antioxidant & immune enhancer.
these free radicals cause inflammation.
should not be taken digoxin, a heart medication.
you may become  impatient, or even bored.
hence, the standing wave pattern of a sick person would have a varied pattern from that of a healthier person.
this  research attempts to accommodate the holographic nature of acupuncture such as  the homunculus or miniature representation of the whole body represented in the  ears and the feet.
recently, a group of expert scientists reviewed 18 studies of anti-hiv drugs,  which involved over 5,000 patients.
in addition to one-sided facial paralysis with possible inability to close  the eye, symptoms of bell's palsy may include pain, tearing, drooling,  hypersensitivity to sound in the affected ear, and impairment of taste.
what is 'healing energy'?the scientific basis of energy medicine.
parents should consult with their physicians about trying elimination diets.
choose joy and alignment in your life.
don't use saliva as a lubricant.
* o * p * q * r * s  *t * u * v * w * x,y
it is only after testing them by, first eliminating them and then re-introducing them back into the diet.
parents should consult with their physicians about  trying elimination diets.
in modern literature the trickster survives as a character archetype, not necessarily supernatural or divine, sometimes no more than a stock character.
magnetic resonance has shown that the muscles in living human subjects provide evidence of a "liquid-crystalline-like" structure.
it is presumably due to an inflammatory reaction in or around the facial nerve near the stylomastoid foramen.
this electric current is called the  current of injury, which is know to stimulate a healing response from the  nearby cells.
quercetin is a strong natural antihistamine shown to be very helpful for allergies and histamine-related inflammation.
therefore, repeated treatments produce more and more benefits for the patient.
jung said that "the encounter with the shadow is the 'apprentice-piece' in the individual's development...that with the anima is the 'masterpiece'".
eggs, orange juice, peanuts, corn and milk have been implicated as  aggravators in children.
fiber: helps in regulating lipid levels, removes toxins and provides bulk for healthy bowel habits.
therefore, the cause of autism is likely to be connected to oxidative  stress (free radical damage by a powerful oxidant), something which damages  brain tissue, something which challenges the immune system, uses up large  amounts of glutathione, or perhaps an active virus or bacterial infection.
archetypes are found everywhere - as their symbols are a language of the mind - taken to different frequencies of thought and connected to each other by the collective unconsciousness.
who are you allergic to?
this protocol essentially  returns the face back to normal in one-third the time of any other treatment i  have seen for this disorder.
in  modern literature the trickster survives as a character archetype, not  necessarily supernatural or divine, sometimes no more than a stock character.
what he also discovered was the difference between high frequency, low intensity vs. low frequency, high intensity application.
don't try to stop the river, just watch  it.
(4) neurological research done in the late 70's discovered the naturally occurring chemicals in the body known as endorphins.
generally, people who function from a strong father archetype pursue the law.
it ranges from "childish to childlike longing for the innocent, regardless of age", as mentioned in her work, sacred contracts, which talk of the presence many aspects of the child archetype, ranging from the wounded child, abandoned or orphan child, dependent child, magical/innocent child, nature child, to the divine child and eternal child jung placed 'the child (including the child hero)' in a list of archetypes incorporating 'the chief among them...like milestones of the individuation process'.
tcm seeks to address any imbalance in health by  affecting this energy.
so it's not just the mercury.
it helps  alleviate acne, heal abrasions and speeds healing when used on cuts.
these archetype patterns derive from a universal collective  unconscious, which in metaphysics is called the grids - akashic records - sea  of consciousness - that which creates our reality in this context, archetypes  are innate prototypes for ideas, which may subsequently become involved in the  interpretation of observed phenomena.
people have been murdered for the spare cash in their wallets.
this research will take a look at the biochemical, biomechanical, as well as bio-electromagnetic theories that have been developed in trying to explain the healing aspects of the ancient art of acupuncture.
in human beings, free radicals are the natural by-products of many  processes within and among cells.
n-acetyl cysteine (n-ac) is protective to liver tissue and aids in  breaking down excessive mucus.
oschman, james l. (oct. 1996-jan. 1998)
therefore you should not expect to receive the truth about any heavy advertiser on tv, or for that matter, in medical journals either.
it helps convert food into energy at a cellular level.
either way, they avoid further giving of themselves.
therefore, repeated treatments produce more and more  benefits for the patient.
some studies show that nonoxyno1-9 can cause genital irritation that may promote hiv infection, especially with very frequent intercourse.
scar tissue is another factor  with surgery.
it is one of the three most recognizable archetypes, the others being the anima and animus and the persona.
hiv can be transmitted from an infected woman to her baby during pregnancy, delivery and breastfeeding.
there is a risk that hiv could enter  through small cuts of opening in the mouth gums of throat.
jung developed many theories about dreams, a lot of them disagreeing with freud.
bell's palsy (zhong feng) is considered a wind attack or external wind stroke attack.
reference: edward j. massaro - 1997 - 1111 pages - preview a large group of metals induce oxidative injuries by inhibiting anti-oxidant activities; the major mechanisms are depletion of cellular glutathione and inhibition of glutathione related enzymes.
the radioactive technetium followed the exact same pathways of the meridian channels described and charted in several hundred-year-old acupuncture charts of the human body!
however, an individual allergic to one of these plants should avoid them unless under the care of a doctor of natural medicine.
and to stop the vaccinations could be seen as an admission that something is wrong with them.
j laryngol otol nov 1989; 103(11): 1045.
this is often noted, but rarely explained as to "why?" this is a tremendous clue as to the true cause of autism & therefore must be passed over & generally ignored by big medicine & the big media which is strongly influenced by drug advertising money.
at  these points the skin is at the highest in electrical conductivity.
from one perspective, 'the  shadow...is roughly equivalent to the whole of the freudian unconscious'; and  jung himself considered that 'the result of the freudian method of elucidation  is a minute elaboration of man's shadow-side unexampled in any previous age'.
bell's palsy is a form of facial paralysis resulting from damage to the vii (facial) cranial nerve.
never use essential oils internally.
listen to your body;  if you are tired, rest
echinacea: (see drug-herb interactions) has been documented to stimulate the chemicals that promote t-cell activation and antibody production.
observing the biochemical view, we see, by pomeranz research, that the hypothalamus-pituitary releases beta-endorphins into the blood and cerebral spinal fluid to create an analgesic effect by causing incoming pain signals from reaching the brain.
product  containing nonoxyno1-9 (a spermicide) can kill hiv and may provide extra  protection, but should not be relied on alone.
wind is thought to take advantage of the deficiency (weakness) a patient is experiencing and enters the body attacking the sinews and vessels in the area of the face.
*young people (15-24 years old) account for half of all new hiv infections  worldwide - around 6,000 become infected with hiv every day.
jung said that sexual drive doesn't even motivate us as  much as the fear of death.
since reishi also promotes the adrenal function and immune reaction, it has added effectiveness in controlling the body's reaction to an allergen.
these fatty acids are  especially abundant in brain cells, nerve relay stations (synapses), visual  receptors (retinas), adrenal glands, and sex glands.
as well, there was found to be dense clusters of encapsulated autonomic nerve mechanoreceptor sites at these points.
i seem to get a  flux of bell's patients in the office in the spring and fall more than any  other seasons.
acupuncture has been shown to change our brain chemistry related to sensation, innvoluntary body functions and in turn, strengthens our immune system.
but the beauty is, when you do release and let go and open, the  newness will be brought to you in a new level of comfort.
he was a brilliant man not afraid to stand on his own for what he believed in.
traditional chinese medicine theory says, "brain is the ocean of marrow; kidneys governs and produces the marrow."
several groups of researchers have identified these peptides in urine samples from children with autism.
this amino acid is compromised when the  immune function is low.
in developing and transitional countries, 6.8 million people are in immediate need of life-saving aids drugs; of these, only 1.65 million are receiving the drugs.
touching and kissing are safe.
we're beginning to talk about some serious money, people.
* z * featured articles the biomedical basis of holistic acupuncture by andrew pacholyk, ms, l.ac.
liquid crystals usually undergo rapid changes in phases or  transitions when exposed to electromagnetic fields.
when their sensitivity is trampled, however, the unloving side of girlchild takes over.
the evidence suggesting hsv as the major cause of this condition is demonstrated further by the success of specific antiviral agents which have shown continued success against hsv infections (adour, ruboyianes et al. 1996; allen and dunn 2004; allen and dunn 2005).
do not  mix with heart medications or if you are being treated for high blood pressure,  glaucoma or thyroid problems.
it's a very supportive place, and you will feel the  self-empowerment in walking in both worlds.
avoid long term (7- 10 days only) use as well as use prior to viral load blood counts.
alpha lipoic acid: is a unique antioxidant that is both water and fat soluble, which allows it to enter all parts of the cell to neutralize free radicals.
hawthorn: claimed to be effective in helping reduce angina attacks by lowering blood pressure and cholesterol levels.
you may find that you fall asleep because you are so relaxed.
your superconscious archetype relates to the qualities you aspire to in life, and the “ideal” you seek in another person.
even where impacting less acutely, the archetype may produce 'a man who remains  too long in adolescent psychology, generally associated with a strong  unconscious attachment to the mother (actual or symbolic).
for example the "spleen function" is quite different than the anatomical spleen in western medicine.
chinese medicine and acupuncture on a regular basis can significantly improve  results and help to resolve this condition.
it is already widely recognized that all  the major constituents of living organisms may be liquid crystal such as lipids  of cellular membranes, dna, possibly all proteins, especially cytoskeletal  proteins, muscle proteins, and proteins in the connective tissues such as  collagens and proteoglycans (18).
as a result, this child would be born with brain function disorder.
minerals  such as selenium help to stimulate immune function and fight infection, while  zinc enhances the immune system and assists in wound healing.
your world is shifting very quickly, and what is not aligned with  you, cannot remain.
acupuncture can  be traced back as far as the stone age in china, when stone knives and pointed  rocks were used to relieve pain and diseases.
do not chew or swallow it, just hold it there.
this  conductivity depends on the internal electrical field, which is determined by  the interference pattern from the superposition of the numerous waves.
"everyone carries a shadow," jung wrote, "and the less it is embodied in the individual's conscious life, the blacker and denser it is."
the decision to use, or not to use, any information is the sole responsibility of the reader.
the acupuncture needle activates the current of  injury response resulting in a change in the em field, producing changes in the  biological response.
if it  goes up 3 beats or more, you most likely are either sensitive and/or  allergic.and you should follow up with your healthcare provider.
that way nobody has to  pay $3 million to care for every child with autism for the rest of their lives.
if you have a conscious boychild frame of reference, you will be very enterprising.
he, s., h.  zhang, et al. (1995).
allergies call attention through a reaction to anything that a person is not in "right relationship" with.
dip a wash cloth in the  tea once it is at room temperature and use as a compress.
but that's the beauty in the depth of which you are searching.
be sure to drink plenty of water, otherwise the fiber will form an obstructing mass, adding to your condition.
traditional chinese medicine, acupuncture and herbal medicine "the causes of autism can be either postnatal (after birth) or  congenital (during pregnancy).
it is important for you to understand that, in your life, you have what  you truly need to take the next steps into alignment.
bioflavonoids such as quercetin, might act synergistically with  vitamin c as both have antihistaminic activity.
one study found that approximately 50% of bell's palsy patients show signs of the virus compared to approximately 19% of the normal population (furuta, fukuda et al. 1998).
people who may be deficient in vitamin b1 (such as  alcoholics) should take vitamin b1 along with alpha lipoic acid supplements.
fennel (foeniculum vulgare): in my chinese herbal practice, fennel is used  for indigestion, spasms in the digestive tract, as well as expelling phlegm  from the lungs.
herbs, supplements and vitamins beneficial for hiv infection free radicals are atoms or groups of atoms that have at least one unpaired electron, which makes them highly reactive.
a new classification system and combined treatment method for idiopathic facial nerve paralysis: report of 718 cases.
abstract in trying to find ways to unite or just bring closer the mysterious transformational techniques of the east to the reductionism theories of the west, our western medical science has tried to organize a logical explanation of how the insertion of tiny acupuncture needles can reduce and even dissolve pain in the human form.
alternative medicine and hiv over the last decade, researchers have identified a number of drugs that slow progression of the virus as well as therapies to treat the many opportunistic infections that attack people with hiv disease.
" these are all musts, that i always suggest a patient do in case of allergies.
archetypes can often convey messages that verbal and written information cannot.
dr. liu yk researched the location of  acupoints present at sites of motor nerves.
allow the herbs to steep for another 30 after you have boiled it.
if you share sex toys like dildos or vibrators put on a fresh  condom for each user (and when going from anus to vagina) or guard bleach  alcohol or soap and water.
it also influences a man's interactions with  women and his attitudes toward them, and vice versa for females and the animus.
in general, these are foods that should not be  eliminated.
alpha lipoic acid: is a unique antioxidant that is both water and fat  soluble, which allows it to enter all parts of the cell to neutralize free  radicals.
herbs, supplements and vitamins beneficial for hiv infection free radicals are atoms or groups of atoms that have at least one  unpaired electron, which makes them highly reactive.
(6) there are  presently 100 different neurotransmitters and neuroendocrine substances in the  body, of which the endorphins constitute only one class.
the most biologically  active tissues in the body.
someone who is  diagnosed as infected with hiv is said to be 'hiv+' or 'hiv positive'.
recently,  author caroline myss suggested child, amongst four the survival archetypes  (victim, prostitute, and saboteur), present in all of us.
dr. watari published a report in beijing, china in november 1987, based on his work.
alpha lipoic acid recycles and enhances the effects of both vitamin c and vitamin e. alpha lipoic acid targets liver protection and is helpful for patients on hepatotoxic medications such as antiretrovirals, antifungals and typically any long-term medication protocols.
it is  presumably due to an inflammatory reaction in or around the facial nerve near  the stylomastoid foramen.
avoid brushing your  teeth two hours before or after oral sex to minimize abrasions.
they can prove  "that" it works, but not "how" it works.
what is your experience with alternative and complementary medicine?
as you learn how to do this, you'll teach others how to do this because, as the consciousness shifts, others will ask you,"how do you live in this in this fearful world without falling apart?
not only is the entire cell now known to be  mechanically and electrically interconnected in a "solid state" (15),  but, all the cells in the body are in turn interconnected to one another via  the connective tissues (16).
this is even more so with steroid drugs (cortisone and related compounds).
for example, a symbol such as a lion or a great cat has a universal  or archetypal meaning of power and vitality.
it is believed that connective tissues may be largely responsible for the rapid intercommunication that enables our body to function effectively as a coherent whole, and is therefore central to our health and well-being.
if it goes up 3 beats or more, you most likely are either sensitive and/or allergic.and you should follow up with your healthcare provider.
no  matter what the surgery is, the body perceives this as truama to the body.
for example many typical fairy tales have the king who wants to find the best groom for his daughter by ordering several trials.
later these stones were replaced by needles made of bamboo and slivers of  animal bone, then finally in the shang dynasty bronze casting techniques made  metal needles possible, which conducted electricity and qi.
minerals such as selenium help to stimulate immune function and fight infection, while zinc enhances the immune system and assists in wound healing.
hiv attacks cd4 cells, and as time goes by people with hiv often see their cd4 counts drop.
rinse powder off dams before use.
acupuncture therapy i treat bell's palsy in my practice all the time, as acupuncture gets incredible results.
by doing so they are significantly improving the symptoms of  autism.
if  you think there's any food you eat that has an adverse effect on your body,  avoid it and see what happens, if your problem clears up,you may have a food  allergy.
what might a group of rich, powerful, & politically connected corporations & their executives do to avoid losing ten trillion dollars?
it is  very effective in lessening the course of the common cold and respiratory  infections when used short term.
make as a tea and drink 2-3 times per day.
for the growing child, the development of a viable social persona is a vital part of adapting to, and preparing for adult life in, the external social world.
some are readily understood while others bring subliminal messages  that are there to help you trigger your memory of why you are here and the  truth behind the illusion of reality.
the alignment of consciousness is the most important thing for us to focus  on at this time.
hundreds of topics are covered,  including articles on health maladies, disorders and therapies.
"review on acupuncture treatment of peripheral  facial paralysis during the past decade."
dip a wash cloth in the tea once it is at room temperature and use as a compress.
many people have  compromised digestive metabolism because of poor diet, medications such as  antibiotics, and the presence of parasitic organisms orlingering pathogenic  factors.
that's good because, in many ways, you have begun to let go.
you may become impatient, or even bored.
"can western science  provide a foundation for acupuncture"- beverly rubik, phd.  alternative therapies magazine september 1995, vol.
histamine is a chemical, which is involved in our local immune  response as well as regulating physiological function in the gut, acting as a  neurotransmitter.
i * j * k * l * m * n
(8) to ensure that the drs. were measuring meridians and not blood vessels or lymphatic channels, some patients received technetium injections adjacent to non-acupoint skin regions as well as in nearby blood and lymphatic channels.
scientific evidence has shown that acupuncture stimulates the central nervous system, which is our brain and spinal chord.
your conscious archetype is the one you think through and how you relate to others in a general way.
it can strike almost anyone at any age; however, it disproportionately attacks pregnant women and people who have diabetes, influenza, a cold, or some other upper respiratory ailment.
his 'female counterpart is the puella, an "eternal girl" with a corresponding attachment to the father-world'.
you become aware of them in meditation - dreamtime - remote viewing  or other out-of-body experiences - when you doodle on a pad - crop circles or  landscape art, other art forms, jewelry, hieroglyphs, a logo, on a billboard -  anywhere at all.
fish oil: is known for being rich in unsaturated fatty acids and provides  rich omega-3 fatty acids, (pure epa 360mg/dha 240mg).
the divine child archetype, is an important jungian archetype in jungian psychology, first suggested by swiss psychologist, carl jung.
eyebright and elder also have a reputation for  use as hay fever remedies.
in 1986 german  scientist fritz-albert popp and chinese biologist, chang-lin zhang developed a  model they called the "standing wave superposition hypothesis".
biological liquid crystals carry static electric charges and are influenced by ph, salt concentration and dielectric constant of the solvent.
a poultice of basil leaves can can work as an antihistamine to draw out insect, bee wasp, or snake venom.
should not be used if you are taking prescriptions for high blood pressure or coumadin.
this is how you help yourself and others shift into this new time.
it is 10 million times more potent and toxic than morphine (alan friedman, phd at j&j).
in jungian psychology, the shadow or "shadow aspect" is a  part of the unconscious mind consisting of repressed weaknesses, shortcomings,  and instincts.
here are some of the most accessible and reliable.
it is only after testing them by, first eliminating them and  then re-introducing them back into the diet.
do not use with diuretics or digoxin because it could lead to further loss of potassium, essential for heart function.
take 1,000 mg of flaxseed oil  in the morning and 1,000 mg in the evening.
emotional aspects: there is an emotional aspect to every illness.
the information provided is  for educational purposes only and is not intended as diagnosis, treatment, or  prescription of any kind.
now a push is underway to dismiss the gender factor by explaining it away  as better or different reporting, & that girls have close to the same  autism rates as boys but just "display autism less obviously than  boys" & other misrepresentations (hogwash).
reference: edward j. massaro - 1997 - 1111 pages - preview a large group of  metals induce oxidative injuries by inhibiting anti-oxidant activities; the  major mechanisms are depletion of cellular glutathione and inhibition of  glutathione related enzymes.
the low frequency, high intensity produced an analgesic effect which was slower at the onset but longer in duration and also having cumulative effects.
emotional congestion,  fear of the calendar or a belief in self-persecution or guilt are other issues  that tend to come up very often with those who have allergies.
the stinging  hairs lose their sting when the plant is cooked.
hold tight to both  worlds.
you are most likely allergic or have some type of sensitivity to that particular food.
for oral sex on a woman or oral-anal sex (rimming) use a dental dam  (latex square) a condom or latex glove cut to produce a flat sheet or  non-microwaveable food wrap.
acupuncture regulates blood pressure, blood flow and body temperature.
healthy adults and teenagers usually have a cd4 count of at least 800 cells per  cubic millimeter of blood (a cubic millimeter is a very small amount, roughly  one small drop).
studies have shown that when treatment reduces your viral load, it also reduces your chance of getting an aids-related infection or dying.
for patients who are not pregnant, an herbal formula is recommended  based on their pattern and signs and symptoms.
in trying  to find ways to help his own child, he has open doors that can help you.
foods high in fiber are fruits such as apples peaches, raspberries and tangerines.
the stage was set thereby for what jung termed enantiodromia - the emergence of the repressed individuality from beneath the persona later in life: 'the individual will either be completely smothered under an empty persona or an enantiodromia into the buried opposites will occur'
the effects of ingesting nonoxyno1-9 are unstudied.
if you must  take these powerful hormones, limit your use of them to two weeks.
"practice parameter: steroids, acyclovir, and surgery for bell's  palsy (an evidence-based review): report of the quality standards subcommittee  of the american academy of neurology."
high doses  can lead to increased blood pressure, water retention and potassium loss.
people who have an  aversion to boychild for example, find that energy too aggressive for them.
articles can be on your: *expertise in your field.
they are related before age 6.
there are special drugs that can greatly reduce the chances of this happening, but they are unavailable in much of the developing world.
the needle activates the current of injury  response resulting in a change in the em field, producing changes in the  biological response, which may promote healing.
minerals such as selenium help to stimulate immune function and fight  infection, while zinc enhances the immune system and assists in wound healing.
a virus can also damage human cells, which is one of the things that can make an infected creature become ill.
when  their archetype goes negative, they become overcompetitive, aggressive, and  tend to run over others.
the problem  with attributing all of acupuncture's effects to the placebo effect, which is  based on a "suggestive way" or the fact that one just wants to  believe that it works, was the fact that veterinarians in china have used  acupuncture successfully to treat animals.
certain cholesterol lowering drugs have also been shown to deplete coenzyme q-10.
we're beginning to talk  about some serious money, people.
other researchers have confirmed it is essentially always present in  children with autism that receive even tiny amounts of casein or gluten.
lactobacillus acidophilus and bifidus may be found in yogurt with active culture or in supplements and can be consumed freely without known side effects.
when they are threatened, they respond by either going aloof or by smothering those around them with a spoiling mechanism.
are you drawn to people who exude  the energy of father and pursue order, blueprints and the letter of the law.
*disclaimer: this information is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice.
otology & neurotology: official publication of the american otological society, american neurotology society
evans ra, hames ml, baguley dm, moffat da.
together as antioxidants, these substances are thought to be effective in helping to prevent certain cancers, cardiovascular disease, and cataracts.
bell's palsy is a form of facial paralysis resulting from damage to  the vii (facial) cranial nerve.
acupuncture points used in this protocol include stomach 2,3,4,5,6,7 bitong, large intestine 19, 20, small intestine 18, gall bladder 14, 20, yuyao, san jiao 17, du 26, du 20, urinary bladder 2, jiachengjiang, yintang, taiyang, stomach 36, gall bladder 34, liver 3, large intestine 4, lung 7, san jiao 5 and spleen 6.
do this for 5 to 10 minutes.
the function of connective tissues is to  keep the body organized, acting as a lace work between the major organs and  tissues, to strengthen the wall of arteries, veins, intestines and pathways and  to provide fascia and the skeletal structure attachment to the muscles.
ginkgo: increases blood flow and circulation throughout the body,  can also help improve memory.
consider 3,000  - 6,000 mg of vitamin c in divided doses, per day.
it is through this  "liquid network" that scientist believe an electromagnetic response  from acupuncture is solicited.
the body responds with an allergic reaction as a way of communicating to you that you have had too much of something.
such diets seem to work best in  infants less than 2 years old.
pomeranz was then interested in the effects of electrical stimulation and manipulation of acupuncture needles.
the function of connective tissues is to keep the body organized, acting as a lace work between the major organs and tissues, to strengthen the wall of arteries, veins, intestines and pathways and to provide fascia and the skeletal structure attachment to the muscles.
the lack of vitamin b6 and other vital elements interrupted structural and functional development of the brain.
freeze-dried nettle leaf extract taken in capsule form will treat hives and  allergies.
from a cellular level through to the bodies' connective tissue, these living organisms are considered a continuum.
studies have shown that glutamine is one of the best amino acid supplements after surgery.
sometimes our own dreams may contain these kinds  of symbols.
-if sufficient blood from an infected person enters the body of an  uninfected person then it can pass on the virus.
do  not use with diuretics or digoxin because it could lead to further loss of  potassium, essential for heart function.
after age 6, it is believed by experts that food  plays a minimal role in most people.
a weak  electrical battery-like charge is created.
this conductivity depends on the internal electrical field, which is determined by the interference pattern from the superposition of the numerous waves.
recent studies with nuclear magnetic resonance has shown that the muscles in living human subjects provide evidence of a "liquid-crystalline-like" structure (17).
steroids perpetuate allergy through their suppressive action.
this led to the  mapping of the meridian system or channels of energy within the body.
by binding to the opiate  receptors that are found throughout the nervous system, endorphins are able to  stop pain.
it is safe to get semen vaginal  fluid or urine on unbroken skin.
in addition to one-sided facial paralysis with possible inability to close the eye, symptoms of bell's palsy may include pain, tearing, drooling, hypersensitivity to sound in the affected ear, and impairment of taste.
ginger (zingiber officinale): another classic herb in the chinese materia  medica, ginger works well on allergic reactions such as hives and wheals.
in jung's terms - 'archetype' is defined as the first original model of which all other similar persons, objects, or concepts are merely derivative, copied, patterned, or emulated.
1000mg of fish oil in the morning and 1,000 mg in the evening.
vegetables such as acorn squash, raw broccoli, brussels sprouts, cabbage, carrots, cauliflower, spinach, black-eyed peas, cooked zucchini, kidney beans and lima beans.
the radioactive technetium followed the exact same  pathways of the meridian channels described and illustrated in several  hundred-year-old acupuncture charts of the human body!
they become victim-martyrs, prosecutors who ultimately  feel superior to their persecutors.
furuta (1998) discovered in his trial that hsv became undetectable  after two weeks onset of bell's palsy.
fiber: helps in regulating lipid levels, removes toxins and provides bulk  for healthy bowel habits.
many people have compromised digestive metabolism because of poor diet, medications such as antibiotics, and the presence of parasitic organisms orlingering pathogenic factors.
journal of traditional chinese  medicine 15(1): 63-67.
this happens  when tissue in the body undergoes trauma or microscopic damage to an area of  skin.
slice up a ginger root boil it in eight cups of water for 30 minutes.
a solution of  an ionic salt of technetium was injected and followed over a period of time  with a gamma ray camera.
the  dream symbol of a rifle, for example, would likely mean one thing to a gunsmith  and something quite different to a victim of war.
in essence, you must understand that very few people on this earth live in this particular way and walk in two worlds.
taking control of or your life and taking an active role in any disorder is an important adjunct to treatment.
while you have the food in your mouth, take your pulse rate again.
just  email them to us directly: write article comments, questions?
this can be found in capsule and tincture.
although as yet, there is no cure, the key to effective treatment is early detection and intervention.
*your work with clients and their energies.
from a cellular  level through to the bodies' connective tissue, these living organisms are  considered a continuum.
this is different from people who inherit the tough underbelly of subconscious boychild, subconscious father or even the underlying adult quality of subconscious mother.
according to chinese theory, the congenital autism might be traced to parents' kidney function problem, which could be the mother's, or sometimes even the father's.
hawthorn: claimed to be effective in helping reduce angina attacks  by lowering blood pressure and cholesterol levels.
for example, a symbol such as a lion or a great cat has a universal or archetypal meaning of power and vitality.
i have found that  approximately 12-14 treatments are needed to return the face back to its normal  look and feel.
the anima and animus, in carl jung's school of analytical  psychology, are the two primary anthropomorphic archetypes of the unconscious  mind, as opposed to both the theriomorphic and inferior-function of the shadow  archetypes, as well as the abstract symbol sets that formulate the archetype of  the self.
these vessels and fibers mingle to form glomerular structures.
omega-3 and  polyunsaturated fatty acids found in fish and deep sea fish oil help to protect  against heart and blood vessel disease.
alpha lipoic acid contributes to and is important for the production of energy inside the cell by utilizing sugar to produce energy contributing to mental and physical stamina, reducing muscle fatigue and neutralizes free radicals.
this amino acid is compromised when the immune function is low.
people who use illegal injected drugs are also  vulnerable to hiv infection.
imagine that you are on the bank of a river and that  your thoughts are the river going by.
these metals include cadmium, mercury.
hiv can bring anxieties.
a recent report in the new england journal of medicine describes a case of a man who'd been taking aspirin to prevent a heart attack and had spontaneous bleeding into the eye from the iris within a week of taking a daily dose of ginkgo.
it takes you into a new place, in your life.
j laryngol otol nov 1989; 103(11):  1045.
those that are most liquid can flow as water does, and even though  all molecules tend to be aligned in one direction, individual molecules can  move very freely and change places with each other while maintaining their  common orientation.
free radicals are created by exposure to various environmental factors, cigarette and tobacco smoke, air pollution, alcohol, drugs, radiation from televisions and computers, chemicals and a busy, stressful life.
either way, they avoid  further giving of themselves.
"lanostan", a compound found in reishi, appears to control the release of transmitting chemicals in the body, thereby inhibiting the release of histamine.
jung thought that dreams were a tool to help us grow, not just to  release extreme sexual desires.
of course, not all the symbols and images in our dreams represent  the universal or archetypal.
lemon balm (also known as melissa): has antihistamine action and is useful to treat eczema and headaches.
clove oil: has antihistamine properties.
mind medicine stress is natural and affects your emotions.
so the damage goes on.
this profound depth, jung  felt, came from a genuine spiritual reality that hadn't been acknowledged by  freud.
the hypothalamus-pituitary releases beta-endorphins into the blood  and cerebral spinal fluid to create an analgesic effect by causing incoming  pain signals from reaching the brain.
the treatment of acupuncture with needles in the acupoints would cause a disturbance in the standard wave pattern caused by new boundaries formed by the needle.
hence, there is  much work to be done in testing and researching these chemicals and their  possible effects with acupuncture.
this effectively stimulates the facial nerves on a deeper level  than tens, electro-pads or anti-viral medications alone.
i estimate over 3 million autistic kids in north america & europe alone  (& increasing yearly) for a total of about 10 trillion dollars.
astragalus: is a chinese herb that has been used for centuries for its immuno-modulating qualities.
in conclusion, bell's palsy is a physical and emotionally debilitating condition in which conventional medicine has limited understanding and efficacy.
acupuncture points are  strategic conductors of electromagnetic signals.
by andrew pacholyk, ms, l.ac.
(11) this was exciting new biomechanical evidence in both identifying the meridian channels in the human body and the fact that the acupuncture points on the body have corresponding volume densities that increase with stimulation.
coenzyme q10 acts as an antioxidant, much like vitamins c and e, helping to neutralize the cell-damaging molecules known as free radicals.
managing your allergies antihistamines interfere with brain activity, causing drowsiness and depression.
studies indicate high dosage can be used safely and effectively.
the evidence suggesting hsv as the major  cause of this condition is demonstrated further by the success of specific  antiviral agents which have shown continued success against hsv infections  (adour, ruboyianes et al. 1996; allen and dunn 2004; allen and dunn 2005).
if you think there's any food you eat that has an adverse effect on your body, avoid it and see what happens, if your problem clears up,you may have a food allergy.
these archetype patterns derive from a universal collective unconscious, which in metaphysics is called the grids - akashic records - sea of consciousness - that which creates our reality in this context, archetypes are innate prototypes for ideas, which may subsequently become involved in the interpretation of observed phenomena.
vibrational medicine for the 21 century- richard gerber m.d. eagle brook, ny, ny 2000 ï¿½ "acupuncture and chinese medicine" 6.
flaxseed oil and flaxseed contain substances that promote good health and is used as a nutritional supplement.
it is already widely recognized that all the major constituents of living organisms may be liquid crystal such as lipids of cellular membranes, dna, possibly all proteins, especially cytoskeletal proteins, muscle proteins, and proteins in the connective tissues such as collagens and proteoglycans (18).
myths or fairy tales often have  similarities among cultures, and these similarities are shown through their  universal symbols and themes.
jung was a great psychologist and psychiatrist that changed the ways of psychology today.
japanese researchers have found that reishi acts as an antihistamine, making it useful for treating allergies.
with these many types of charges oscillating in the body, an  interference pattern is produced formed by the various waves of various  wavelengths.
licorice: (glycerrhiza) (see drug-herb interactions) also has been used as  a complementary immune modulator, although it should be avoided in people with  hypertension.
use an unlubricated condom for oral sex if a man will come in your mouth.
* knowledge you have regarding your therapies.
histamine is a chemical, which is involved in our local immune response as well as regulating physiological function in the gut, acting as a neurotransmitter.
patients who come in for treatment of bell's palsy will often tell me they sleep with a fan on them (wind) or near an open window.
if you feel through subconscious girlchild, you will  be highly sensitive.
(12) the electrical conductivity of acupoints has been known for several decades  thanks to the work of nakatani in the 1950s and by dr. robert becker in the  1970s.
feverfew has the potential to react with warfarin anti- coagulants,  increasing the thinning of blood.
garlic capsules may  increase blood thinning if you are already on anti- coagulants.
fact: autistic boys far outnumber autistic girls, by about 4 to 1.
that does not include attorney fees, court fees, pain & suffering,  additional punitive damages, the "perp walk," or prison time in a  small cell with ice pick johnson or the social director for the local chapter  of the aryan nation.
this amino acid is compromised when there is  surgery or the immune function is low.
ephedra: a powerful decongestant.
it is through this "liquid network"  that scientist believe an acupuncture response is solicited.
however, in excess, they produce harmful oxidation or"oxidative  stress" that can damage cell membranes and cell contents.
over and over again they found the same  thing: the more viral load was reduced, the healthier the patients stayed.
caraway seed oil: has antihistamine and antimicrobial properties and is very effective in treating mild allergic reactions.
an anti-inflammatory, ginger has been used in ayurvedic and chinese medicine as  an anti-inflammatory.
never use cortisone, prednisone, or other steroid drugs to treat allergic reactions unless they are very severe or life-threatening.
yoga therapy archive articles a alternative, complementary and integrative health articles written  by some of the most beloved, respected, outrageous and progressive healers and  thinkers in the global healthcare field today!
the flowers can be crushed and used as a poultice for inflammatory swelling.
pomeranz was then interested in the effects of electrical stimulation and  manipulation of acupuncture needles.
clegg j.s. and drost-hansen w.
people who want mother,  for example, are always looking to be nurtured by others.
(13) in the zhang-popp model, it is shown that the body is composed of sodium, potassium and other electrically charged inorganic ions such as proteins and dna which when accelerated will emit em radiation in accordance with conventional physical theory.
researchers who are studying autism are reaching a similar conclusion as the chinese doctors, and are improving the autistic child's digestive system and immune system.
according to liu (1995), when acupuncture was initiated within three days postonset in 684 cases of facial nerve paralysis, 100 percent of the patients were cured or there was a marked improvement (5).
the deep pockets on the expensive pants covering so many rich & powerful butts must be protected at all costs.
you will have empathy and bring out the best in yourself and in others.
(6) there are presently 100 different neurotransmitters and neuroendocrine substances in the body, of which the endorphins constitute only one class.
seattle:  eastland press 1981; 367-372.
please contact andrew proacumed inc.
the life span of the virus and the timing of testing for hsv may explain these conflicting conclusions.
antihistamines are commonly used for allergic rhinitis, allergic conjunctivitis, contact dermatitis, urticaria (hives), angioedema and pruritus (atopic dermatitis, insect bites).
people who have a strong boychild archetype are go-getters in life.
no known contraindications exist.
the longer a persons goes without treatment, the longer the recovery time.
however, excessive stress can cause physical symptoms, it can damage your immune system and make you ill.
use latex gloves for "finger penetration" or fisting to  guard the wearer against infection through cuts on the hand or arm and to guard  the partner against injury from fingernails.
please consult your healthcare provider with any questions or concerns you may have regarding your condition.
this next piece is to feel aligned on all levels that you share, whether it is how you work, how you relate to others, or how you live.
jung was a great psychologist and psychiatrist that changed the ways of  psychology today.
in 1986 german scientist fritz-albert popp and chinese biologist, chang-lin zhang developed a model they called the "standing wave superposition hypothesis".
not only is the entire cell now known to be mechanically and electrically interconnected in a "solid state" (15), but, all the cells in the body are in turn interconnected to one another via the connective tissues (16).
based on this theory, the postnatal  autistic condition is mostly caused by the child's impaired digestion system,  which is the problem of the spleen (and/or the stomach) that prevents the body  from absorbing nutrients such as vitamin b6 and other elements needed for brain  development and maintenance.
archetypes in relationships by therese emmanuel grey archetypes are visual symbols or energetic imprints that exist in  our psyches.
many, if not most, are best interpreted by  discovering the personal associations one has with that person or object.
they tend to have strong boundaries and seek to download a  blueprint for every situation.
they love to guide and teach others, and provide stability in any given  situation.
archived articles a * b * c * d * e * f * g * h * i * j * k * l * m * n
when we yield to their unloving side, we become our  worst self and end up ruining our relationships.
treatment started with a week of the  event, can improve the symptoms with 6 visits with complete recovery and normal  facial symmetry within 12 -14 visits.
cd4 cells help to organize your body's defenses against disease.
sharing needles (for drug steroids piercing or tattooing) razors  or any implement that draws blood is dangerous since blood may be left on used  implements.
managing your allergies antihistamines interfere with brain activity, causing drowsiness and  depression.
you may access other health topics, all organized alphabetically.
claude darras and pierre de vernejoul injected human  studies with radioactive isotopes into acupuncture points.
gok, u., h. c. alpay, et al. (2005).
this happens when tissue in the body undergoes trauma or microscopic damage to an area of skin.
where this becomes too  strong, 'the child is co-opted into an arrangement whereby he or she is to  provide the parents with a certain magic...the divine child'.
licorice: (glycerrhiza) (see drug-herb interactions) also has been used as a complementary immune modulator, although it should be avoided in people with hypertension.
first, eliminate the food you feel is causing trouble for a two week period.
you are not ever without support and you must hold tightly  to your truth.
consideration of alternative therapies in conjunction with conventional medicine may offer additional opportunities for those living with hiv/aids to be proactive in their treatments.
this finding suggested that endorphin release caused by acupuncture stimulus was an important mechanism behind acupuncture's pain relieving effects.
avoid contact with blood in s/m scenes.
they experience life through serendipity.
for the growing child, the development of a viable social persona  is a vital part of adapting to, and preparing for adult life in, the external  social world.
taking control of or your life and  taking an active role in any disorder is an important adjunct to treatment.
liquid crystals usually undergo rapid changes in phases or transitions when exposed to electromagnetic fields.
sharing your own experiences often helps others.
as a result the pattern of  immune overresponsiveness is strengthened rather than weakened, meaning that  more treatment will be required in the future.
it can also be helpful in managing diarrhea.
this finding suggested that  endorphin release caused by acupuncture stimulus was an important mechanism  behind acupuncture's pain relieving effects.
jung viewed the anima process as being one of the sources of creative ability.
they have little or no concept of themselves as beings distinct from what society expects of them'.
the ancient art of acupuncture is the needling of specific points along  "meridians" or channels that run throughout our body.
our immune system is weakened, the gastrointestinal tract is comprimised and  this leaves our bodies more vulnerable to infection.
reliability of the house and brackmann grading system for facial palsy.
the meridians are said to circulate qi throughout the system of the body.
such diets seem to work best in infants less than 2 years old.
probiotics: (acidophilus, bifidus, lactobacillus spirogenes) help to maintain balance of good and dangerous bacteria and compete for the food the dangerous bacteria need to grow and cause us problems.
n-acetyl cysteine (n-ac) is protective to liver tissue and aids in breaking down excessive mucus.
archetypes are found everywhere - as their symbols are a language of  the mind - taken to different frequencies of thought and connected to each  other by the collective unconsciousness.
before parents can make the right  decisions regarding their child's care, a good diagnosis is critical.
the deep pockets on the expensive pants covering so many rich &  powerful butts must be protected at all costs.
basil (ocimum sanctum): this great herb has a history in helping prevent  stomach cramps, gas as well as constipation.
and you'll be better for it.
those that are most liquid can flow as water does, and even though all molecules tend to be aligned in one direction, individual molecules can move very freely and change places with each other while maintaining their common orientation.
this gives  us the advantage, even during surgery since acupuncture can regulate blood and  body fluids.
it helps  convert food into energy at a cellular level.
it may be (in part) one's  link to more primitive animal instincts, which are superseded during early  childhood by the conscious mind.
the most important herbs for this disorder should include herbs to treat wind attack and anti-viral herbs such as qin jiao, fang feng, xi xin, bai shao, di long, fu ling, gan cao, chuan xiong, pu gong ying, dang gui.
it is very effective in lessening the course of the common cold and respiratory infections when used short term.
acupuncture points used in this protocol include stomach 2,3,4,5,6,7  bitong, large intestine 19, 20, small intestine 18, gall bladder 14, 20, yuyao,  san jiao 17, du 26, du 20, urinary bladder 2, jiachengjiang, yintang, taiyang,  stomach 36, gall bladder 34, liver 3, large intestine 4, lung 7, san jiao 5 and  spleen 6.
cochrane database syst rev(1): cd002914.
should not be taken with hiv  medications.
vibrational  medicine for the 21 century- richard gerber m.d. eagle brook, ny, ny 2000  ï¿½ "acupuncture and chinese medicine" 13.
these fatty acids are especially abundant in brain cells, nerve relay stations (synapses), visual receptors (retinas), adrenal glands, and sex glands.
be sure to  drink plenty of water, otherwise the fiber will form an obstructing mass,  adding to your condition.
so it's not just the  mercury.
if  girlchild is your rejected archetype, you may draw to yourself wounded people  who seek to prosecute you for an alleged offense.
"efficacy of early treatment of  bell's palsy with oral acyclovir and prednisolone."
those of you that walk the earth that are not aligned with the consciousness at this time are also being released with these changes.
positive traits are  spontaneity and openness to change'; negative, the emergence of a  'superficially entrancing but basically immature child-man who is incapable of  commitment ...an identification with the divine child, mama's darling'.
one general treatment strategy, therefore, is to follow a low-protein diet andtry to eliminate milk and milk products.
start with one rounded tablespoon of the powder  stirred well into a glass of water or diluted juice.
the principle of the connective tissue continuum is another approach at viewing the correlation of acupuncture to the bio-electromagnetic theory.
from one perspective, 'the shadow...is roughly equivalent to the whole of the freudian unconscious'; and jung himself considered that 'the result of the freudian method of elucidation is a minute elaboration of man's shadow-side unexampled in any previous age'.
in jungian psychology, the shadow or "shadow aspect" is a part of the unconscious mind consisting of repressed weaknesses, shortcomings, and instincts.
some of the  topics covered include aromatherapy, herbal medicine, acupuncture, exercise,  nutrition and lifestyle changes, energy medicine, crystals and homeopathy.
the zhang-popp model, shows us that the body is composed of sodium, potassium and other electrically charged inorganic ions such as proteins and dna which when accelerated will emit em radiation in accordance with conventional physical theory.
this is liberating and empowering.
the protein in cow's milk, specifically, is a frequent offender, and for people with a genetic predisposition to allergy it may be a hidden cause.
there are individual and universal archetypes.
the biomechanical questions had to do with the presents of meridians in the  body.
there is mixed scientific evidence on its efficacy  with hiv, but well documented studies on its ability to stimulate the immune  system.
despite many efforts to prove it's efficiency, western  science has never been able to reconcile how acupuncture works.
with these many types of charges oscillating in the body, an interference pattern is produced formed by the various waves of various wavelengths.
you may add the tea to a hot bath and soak for 20 minutes.
gao hb, chen d. clinic al observation on 60 cases of peripheral facial paralysis treated with acupointure penetration needling.
bio-electromagnetic theories science has long been aware of an  electrical phenomenon called the "current of injury".
acupuncture can be traced back as far as the stone age in china, when stone knives and pointed rocks were used to relieve pain and diseases.
vibrational medicine for the 21 century- richard gerber m.d. eagle brook,  ny, ny 2000 ï¿½ "acupuncture and chinese medicine" 6.
for patients who are not pregnant, an herbal formula is recommended based on their pattern and signs and symptoms.
garlic capsules may increase blood thinning if you are already on anti- coagulants.
biomechanically, drs.
if someone offends  you, watch how you react.
the theory also strives to explain the anomalous skin resistance properties of acupuncture points as well as the apparent interconnectivity between them.
they count hiv's  genetic material -- the building blocks of the virus.
basically, this is how hiv is spread.
these tests  go by several different names, like pcr (polymerase chain reaction) or bdna  (branched dna), but they all work roughly the same way.
we look forward to your "pearls of wisdom"!
freeze-dried nettle leaf extract taken in capsule form will treat hives and allergies.
echinacea: (see drug-herb interactions) has been documented to stimulate  the chemicals that promote t-cell activation and antibody production.
people can become infected with hiv from other people who already  have it, and when they are infected they can then go on to infect other people.
thyme (thymus vulgaris): is a natural antihistamine, as well as having  antiseptic properties to help purge infections.
the alignment of consciousness is the most important thing for us to focus on at this time.
oral sex on a man without ejaculation or on a non-menstruating  woman is thought to be low risk activity.
ginger (zingiber officinale): another classic herb in the chinese materia medica, ginger works well on allergic reactions such as hives and wheals.
omega-3 and polyunsaturated fatty acids found in fish and deep sea fish oil help to protect against heart and blood vessel disease.
coq10 is one in a series of  ubiquinones, naturally occurring compounds produced in nearly every cell of the  body, and was discovered as recently as 1957.
[and] european academy of otology and neurotology 24(6):  948-951.
"can western  science provide a foundation for acupuncture"- beverly rubik, phd.  alternative therapies magazine september 1995, vol.
one of the most important tests measuresviral load, the amount of hiv in your blood.
if not found regularly in the diet, the diet must be supplemented.
drink 2 to 3 cups a day.
jung writes that if these projections are unrecognized "the projection-making factor (the shadow archetype) then has a free hand and can realize its object--if it has one--or bring about some other situation characteristic of its power."
probiotics: (acidophilus, bifidus, lactobacillus spirogenes) help to  maintain balance of good and dangerous bacteria and compete for the food the  dangerous bacteria need to grow and cause us problems.
ginkgo: increases blood flow and circulation throughout the body, can also help improve memory.
it's also used to relieve insomnia and nervousness.
the problem with attributing all of acupuncture's effects to the placebo effect, which is based on a "suggestive way" or the fact that one just wants to believe that it works, was the fact that veterinarians in china have used acupuncture successfully to treat animals.
the most important of these are goldenrod and  ragweed (ambrosia ambrosioides).
alpha lipoic acid contributes to and is important for the production  of energy inside the cell by utilizing sugar to produce energy contributing to  mental and physical stamina, reducing muscle fatigue and neutralizes free  radicals.
long term use of fish oil shelp prevent aging skin, menopausal symptoms, promote better circulation, lower cholesterol, prevent blood clots, reduce heart related risk, and the pain of arthritis.
these projections insulate and cripple individuals by forming an ever thicker  fog of illusion between the ego and the real world.
acupuncture may often lead to significant clinical improvement (7).
it can strike almost anyone at any age; however, it  disproportionately attacks pregnant women and people who have diabetes,  influenza, a cold, or some other upper respiratory ailment.
carl jung is one of the most respected and recognized psychologists of all time.
however, an individual allergic to one of these  plants should avoid them unless under the care of a doctor of natural medicine.
the joy comes in knowing that you are clearly provided for, taken care of and never alone.
recent studies  with nuclear magnetic resonance has shown that the muscles in living human  subjects provide evidence of a "liquid-crystalline-like" structure  (17).
among the 600 or more carotenoids in foods, beta-carotene, lycopene, and lutein are well- known leaders in the fight to reduce the damage from free radicals and are helpful with eye health.
elsevier science  publ.
they also lower immunity .
flaxseed also contains a group of chemicals called lignans that may play a role in the prevention of cancer.
during the time of seasonal allergies, the body's immune system sees pollen as an invader.
(4)  neurological research done in the late 70's discovered the naturally occurring  chemicals in the body known as endorphins.
it can also be helpful in managing  diarrhea.
this is done by strengthening the immune system, reduce stress, maintain good nutritional practices and exercise as a way to relieve stress and boost your immune system.
this is how  you will make the next shift in your consciousness and in making some shifts  you'll feel more joyful and light than in others.
do not take  with diabetes medication because it may cause a decrease in blood sugars.
there is mixed scientific evidence on its efficacy with hiv, but well documented studies on its ability to stimulate the immune system.
may interact with anti-coagulant medications such  as aspirin, coumadin, heparin and warfarin, causing the blood to thin too much,  and provoking a serious bleeding disorder.
jewelweed is also  used for heat rash, ringworm and many other skin disorders, as well as bug  bites and razor burn.
as antihistamines essential oils should be used in a base oil (to avoid irritation) and massaged on the skin.
find ways to relax and recharge your batteries.
giraud-guille, m.m. (1988)  &quot;twisted plywoodarchitecture of collagen fibrils in human compact  bone osteons&quot;, calcif.
vitamins a, c and the b vitamins increase the immune function.
in my experience the immune modulators work much better when  combined together rather than used as singular treatments.
they are related  before age 6.
this research represents much of the current biological views on how acupuncture heals and tries to explain the biomedical basis of holistic acupuncture.
observing the biochemical view, we see, by pomeranz research, that  the hypothalamus-pituitary releases beta-endorphins into the blood and cerebral  spinal fluid to create an analgesic effect by causing incoming pain signals  from reaching the brain.
jung felt that dreams were more than about sex,  they were about life.
it considers that the  kidneys dominate congenital situations.
the ideal  combination of soluble fiber (psyllium husk) and insoluble fiber (flax oil,  fiber) helps to absorb water and toxins and adds roughage to bulk up stool and  sweep away built up debris in the intestinal tract.
the lives of our innocent & helpless children.
knight,d. and feng, d. (1993).
the decision to use, or not to use, any information  is the sole responsibility of the reader.
this effectively stimulates the facial nerves on a deeper level than tens, electro-pads or anti-viral medications alone.
this is done by strengthening the immune  system, reduce stress, maintain good nutritional practices and exercise as a  way to relieve stress and boost your immune system.
if boychild is in your unconscious, you will  regrettably draw “bullies” to yourself, people who push your  buttons.
excessive protein may irritate the immune system and keep it in a  state of overreactivity.
some herbal medicines may cancel the effect of a prescription drug, others may reduce it, or even exaggerate it.
allergies call attention through a reaction to anything that a  person is not in "right relationship" with.
by andrew pacholyk ms, l.ac.
chamomile can cause histaminic allergic  reactions in some very sensitive people.
eggs, orange juice, peanuts, corn and milk have been implicated as aggravators in children.
take a few  deep breaths.
sharing needles (for drug steroids piercing or tattooing) razors or any implement that draws blood is dangerous since blood may be left on used implements.
chamomile (matricaria chamomilla): is rich in anti-histamine properties.
**please note: in traditional chinese medicine the term  "organs" are not the organs western anatomical science refers to.
natural, essential fatty acids are  essential to normal human cell and tissue growth and maintenance.
the radioactive technetium followed the exact same pathways  of the meridian channels described and charted in several hundred-year-old  acupuncture charts of the human body!
we'd love to know in the   peacefulmind community.
do you aspire  to mother, to people who nurture and teach?
allergies make sense.
some herbal medicines may  cancel the effect of a prescription drug, others may reduce it, or even  exaggerate it.
magnetic resonance has shown that the muscles in  living human subjects provide evidence of a "liquid-crystalline-like"  structure.
natural, essential fatty acids are essential to normal human cell and tissue growth and maintenance.
his website is http://www.gnd.org/autism/overview.htm by mike kohloff www.55fix.com
acupuncture is definitely effective in treating pain; it works 70% to 80% of the time, far greater than the placebo, which only has about 30% efficiency.
coq10: (coenzyme q10) is a vitamin-like compound also called  "ubiquinone".
other treatments are usually aimed at protecting the eye from drying at nighttime.
and they are not in it alone.
many people know jung as one of sigmund freud's followers and  co-workers.
this profound depth, jung felt, came from a genuine spiritual reality that hadn't been acknowledged by freud.
it can help you to deal with some situations.
in turn, this trauma takes it's toll on the body in the way of stress.
with the  western medicine approach of drug treatment, most patients begin to get  significantly better within 3-4 weeks, and about 80 percent recover completely  within 3 months.
acupuncture and bell's palsy by andrew pacholyk ms, l.ac.
if father is your unconscious archetype, you may encounter more  than a fair share of trouble with the law, and be prone to criticism.
vitamin c supplementation has been  reported to help people with hay fever in preliminary research.
vitamins a, c and the b vitamins increase the immune function and help with wound healing.
scientific basis of  acupuncture ï¿½ b. pomeranz acupuncture textbook and  atlas, ny, ny 1987 3.
do not mix with heart medications or if you are being treated for high blood pressure, glaucoma or thyroid problems.
i estimate over 3 million autistic kids in north america & europe alone (& increasing yearly) for a total of about 10 trillion dollars.
other contraceptive devices do not protect against aids.
vitamin c supplementation has been reported to help people with hay fever in preliminary research.
reishi (ganoderma lucidum): hailed the "mushroom of immortality",  one of my favorite natural remedies is reishi (ling zhi).
fish oils are made from  natural marine lipid concentrate and may help reduce or inhibit risk factors  involved in cardiovascular disease, as well as inflammatory and immune  disorders.
if you feel through subconscious girlchild, you will be highly sensitive.
do not take  with other migraine medications, as, it may raise heart rate and blood  pressure.
in essence, you must understand that very few people on this  earth live in this particular way and walk in two worlds.
this inflammation can then obstruct the normal function of the nerves and vessels resulting in paralysis.
ways in which you can be infected with hiv -unprotected sexual intercourse with an infected person -sexual intercourse without a condom is risky, because the virus,  which is present in an infected person's sexual fluids, can pass directly into  the body of their partner.
wild oregano (origanum vulgare): aka wild marjoram, have at least seven  different antihistaminic chemicals, therefore fights allergies as well as  fungus and infection.
in  turn, this trauma takes it's toll on the body in the way of stress.
in chinese medicine, wind is said to be the carrier of 1,000 diseases.
this herb is used often used in conjunction with other immune boosters  such as reishi, maitake and shitake mushrooms.
they can prove "that" it works, but not "how" it works.
never use antihistamines if you have atendency toward depression  or mental dullness.
powdered psyllium is a quality source of supplemental fiber.
ginseng: used to help reduce stress, boost energy and improve  stamina, and may also help lower cholesterol.
the body tells you to stay away from something for a good reason, such as toxic overload.
there are no gaps between the two.
liquid crystals will also respond to  changes in temperature, hydration, pressure and shear forces.
it is suggested by hansen (2001) that the term "trickster" was probably first used in this context by daniel g. brinton in 1885.
astragalus: is a chinese herb that has been used for centuries for its  immuno-modulating qualities.
the principle of  treatment is to expel wind and promote the movement of qi and blood by  scattering the stagnation.
do not mix echinacea with some heart medications, antifungal medications, hiv  medications and anti-anxiety medications.
basil (ocimum sanctum): this great herb has a history in helping prevent stomach cramps, gas as well as constipation.
our immune system is weakened, the gastrointestinal tract is comprimised and this leaves our bodies more vulnerable to infection.
once you know your archetypes, you can move towards overcoming the limitations of your specific pattern.
"can western science provide  a foundation for acupuncture"- beverly rubik, phd. alternative  therapies magazine september 1995, vol.
the colon requires bulk for it to achieve healthy  movement.
when we yield to their unloving side, we become our worst self and end up ruining our relationships.
all symptoms, including allergies, are indicative of an  energy imbalance.
it is the deficiency of this enzyme that triggers an allergic reaction as histamines gathers in the synapses.
vibrational medicine for the 21 century- richard gerber m.d. eagle brook, ny, ny 2000 ï¿½ "acupuncture and chinese medicine" 13.
clean needles by rinsing several times with bleach then with water.
use  water-based lubricant (k-y, astroglide, and probe); oil-containing products  (crisco, vaseline, baby oil, lotion, and whipped cream) can destroy latex.
this purple coneflower has  shown to have antihistamine properties.
the impaired spleen and stomach also cause an  impaired immune system".
fennel is rich with the antioxidant flavonoid "quercetin".
it is this theory, which  implicates the em fields of the entire body.
they are either dealing with work related stress, having difficulties in their home or family life and are often the type a personality.
the highest combination of wave amplitudes forms the acupuncture points and meridians by means of constructive interference.
for example the "spleen  function" is quite different than the anatomical spleen in western  medicine.
acupuncture, post-surgery,  can start as soon as possible.
lemon balm (also known as melissa): has antihistamine action and is useful  to treat eczema and headaches.
my choice of protocol is electro-stimulation  acupuncture.
please consult your healthcare provider with any questions  or concerns you may have regarding your condition.
his  website is http://www.gnd.org/autism/overview.htm autism, why more boys than girls?
by shirley knapp, author of sustaining joy http://www.northwindsprod.com/sustainingjoy.htm www.shirleyknapp.com at times it seems as though our lives are a bit challenging, perhaps frustrating, and, even in our darkest times, fearful.
don't try to stop the river, just watch it.
the persona, for jung, was the social face the individual presented  to the world - 'a kind of mask, designed on the one hand to make a definite  impression upon others, and on the other to conceal the true nature of the  individual'.
feverfew: taken to reduce the severity of migraines.
never use antihistamines if you have atendency toward depression or mental dullness.
cd4 cells  are a key part of your body's disease-fighting defenses, called the immune  system.
[and] european academy of otology and neurotology 24(6): 948-951.
instead, fragments of them (peptides) get into the bloodstream and the central nervous system before eventually being eliminated in the urine.
again this emotional aspect is, indeed, part of the ellimination diet that  must be addressed as well, in order to heal.
use latex gloves for "finger penetration" or fisting to guard the wearer against infection through cuts on the hand or arm and to guard the partner against injury from fingernails.
during the acute onset of a cold, 2 to 4 cups of strong echinacea tea  or 3 capsules 3 times daily can help limit the course of the illness.
knight,d.  and feng, d. (1993).
the connective tissue continuum embraces the concept that the cytoskeletal structure of each individual cell in the body is a homunculus of the connective tissue in which it creates.
it's controversial because it's a powerful stimulant that can raise blood pressure, cause insomnia and high blood pressure.
foods high in fiber are fruits such as apples peaches, raspberries and  tangerines.
first you start to recognize how you and other people express  these archetypes.
his work realized that acupoints  correspond to regions where motor nerves enter skeletal muscle and where there  is a great density of motor nerve terminal elements at the surface.
find ways of managing the stress in  your life.
no matter what the surgery is, the body perceives this as truama to the body.
where this becomes too strong, 'the child is co-opted into an arrangement whereby he or she is to provide the parents with a certain magic...the divine child'.
precautions against hiv infection can protect you from other sexually transmitted diseases such as gonorrhea, syphilis, chlamydia, herpes, yeast infections, amoebiasis, and hepatitis b. 10.
you will notice the earth also shifting and changing.
the high frequency, low intensity produced a very rapid analgesic effect, which is great for acute pain but  shorter in duration with no cumulative effects.
injection of a vaccine with squalene, antifreeze, mercury, formaldehyde, aluminum, a live virus or two, & other immune system stressors (adjuvants) would be very effective at producing all the above.
what is not aligned  is being released.
you  may add the tea to a hot bath and soak for 20 minutes.
hold a bit of food that you are testing in your mouth.
he found that  histologically, volume density of corresponding acupoints to blood vessels are  elevated fourfold and that of nerves 1.4 times over that of surrounding  tissues.
his work realized that acupoints correspond to regions where motor nerves enter skeletal muscle and where there is a great density of motor nerve terminal elements at the surface.
this is how you will make the next shift in your consciousness and in making some shifts you'll feel more joyful and light than in others.
the high frequency, low intensity produced a very rapid analgesic effect, which is great for acute pain but shorter in duration with no cumulative effects.
take 1,000 mg of flaxseed oil in the morning and 1,000 mg in the evening.
antioxidants are a classification of several organic substances, which  include vitamins c and e, vitamin a (converted from beta- carotene), selenium,  alpha lipoic acid, and carotenoids.
please e-mail us my writing staff will go over them and we will post them both to the  alternative answers community at yahoogroups.com and to our website at  peacefulmind.com under the appropriate therapies on our site!
licorice can be consumed as a tea daily and the mushrooms may be included in food preparation or taken in liquid tincture form for a more consistent higher dose.
certain  cholesterol lowering drugs have also been shown to deplete coenzyme q-10.
whether you have been diagnosed with hiv or not there should be an emphasis on improving lifestyle issues.
alternative, complementary and integrative health articles written by some of the most beloved, respected, outrageous and progressive healers and thinkers in the global healthcare field today!
in  developing and transitional countries, 6.8 million people are in immediate need  of life-saving aids drugs; of these, only 1.65 million are receiving the drugs.
viral load tests, which tell the doctor how much hiv is in your blood, are a very important clue to how quickly hiv is doing harm.
what is not aligned is being released.
stux g, pomeranz b. acupuncture textbook and atlas.
scar tissue is another factor with surgery.
this protocol essentially returns the face back to normal in one-third the time of any other treatment i have seen for this disorder.
in general, these are foods that should not be eliminated.
lactobacillus  acidophilus and bifidus may be found in yogurt with active culture or in  supplements and can be consumed freely without known side effects.
(13) in the zhang-popp model,  it is shown that the body is composed of sodium, potassium and other  electrically charged inorganic ions such as proteins and dna which when  accelerated will emit em radiation in accordance with conventional physical  theory.
these are the channels in the body, which are filled with our life force, energy ï¿½ qi.
air-conditioning your house is probably the single most important thing  you can do to alleviate pollen problems, and it can help with two other  chief inhalants:mold and dust mites.
-use of infected blood products.
myths or fairy tales often have similarities among cultures, and these similarities are shown through their universal symbols and themes.
bio-electromagnetic theories are based on the current of injury, which is  know to stimulate a healing response from the nearby cells.
the allergy elimination diet is the best way to balance all aspects of your mind, body and emotional spirit.
those of you that walk the earth that are not  aligned with the consciousness at this time are also being released with these  changes.
others who watch you gradually shift and change need to understand that you embrace unconditional love as your choice in your life, and whatever lessons this brings to you; you need for your growth.
your world is shifting very quickly, and what is not aligned with you, cannot remain.
papaya juice can be taken internally as well as applied topically to diffuse a histamine attack.
this research takes a look at the  different approaches the biosciences have attempted in explaining the way  holistic acupuncture works in healing.
preventing other stds can in turn minimize your chances of  getting hiv infection, since many stds cause sores in the genital or anal area  or around the mouth which can provide a path for hiv transmission.
*** western medical theory the theory that gluten-free/casein-free diets can help young children with  autism comes from studies suggesting that some cases of autistic behavior  result from allergies or intolerances to the proteins in milk (casein) and  found in wheat (gluten, also in other grains).
treatment, as with this patient, may include numerous diagnostic procedures, different classes of medications, lifestyle alterations, and still, continued suffering.
a strong ego relates to the outside world through a flexible  persona; identification with a specific persona (doctor, scholar, artist, etc.)
researchers who are studying autism are reaching a similar conclusion as  the chinese doctors, and are improving the autistic child's digestive system  and immune system.
alignment in the new consciousness by shirley knapp, author of sustaining joy  http://www.northwindsprod.com/sustainingjoy.htm www.shirleyknapp.com at times it seems as though our lives are a bit challenging, perhaps  frustrating, and, even in our darkest times, fearful.
energetic definition of allergy does  not require immune response to an allergen, only a reaction of some kind:  something which disrupts the balance of a person's qi in any way.
the best source for antioxidants are in fruits and vegetables.
the exposure to external sources (stress, environment) cause the immune system to produce an inflammatory response.
there are hundreds of plants used all over the world, which are used  in herbal medicine as treatments forhystamine attacks.
when we have set our goals for truth, and living the life of unconditional love, we must remember that, it will always take us to the next steps of our spiritual journey.
hsv has been observed in saliva (furuta, fukuda et al. 1998) as well as muscle biopsy and tears (kaygusuz, godekmerdan et al. 2004) of bell's palsy patients at significantly higher rates than control groups.
don't try to stop the  thoughts, just watch them.
the anima and animus are described by jung as elements of his theory  of the collective unconscious, a domain of the unconscious that transcends the  personal psyche.
reality is a series of metaphors set into motion by the  synchronicity of archetypes we experience.
it's  not whom you connect with; it's how do you feel when you connect with them.
start with one rounded tablespoon of the powder stirred well into a glass of water or diluted juice.
should not be taken digoxin,  a heart medication.
nih consensus development conference on acupuncture, national institutes of health, bethesda md, nov 1997; 93-109.
allow the herbs  to steep for another 30 after you have boiled it.
this results in vital energy (qi) and the blood to stagnate causing the inability of the facial muscles to relax and therefore contract (wolfe 2003).
(10) further research was done on dr. liu's work.
furthermore, injections into rat specimens with hsv have recreated facial paralysis in approximate 50% of specimens (gok, alpay et al. 2005).
if your conscious archetype is girlchild, you see the world through intuitive, spherical and highly creative eyes.
here all minds could communicate through the use of universal symbols - images which seem to have a common meaning among people all over the world.
what he also discovered was the difference  between high frequency, low intensity vs. low frequency, high intensity  application.
infant girls also have higher glutathione levels, a powerful antioxidant & immune enhancer.
depending on the surgery, herbal medicine can be used to help speed up the  recovery time and help reduce scarring, as well.
as well, there was found to be dense  clusters of encapsulated autonomic nerve mechanoreceptor sites at these points.
the body converts beta carotene into vitamin a. vitamin a is a fat-soluble  vitamin essential for vision, growth, cell division, reproduction and immunity.
if not found  regularly in the diet, the diet must be supplemented.
by activating small  myelinated nerve fibers, acupuncture applications send impulses to the spinal  chord, midbrain and pituitary-hypothalamus in the diencephelon.
coq10 is one in a series of ubiquinones, naturally occurring compounds produced in nearly every cell of the body, and was discovered as recently as 1957.
the radioactive tracers  tended to diffuse outward from the injection site into a typical small circular  pattern.
in much of the world this is no longer a risk, as blood donations are routinely tested.
are you drawn to people who exude the energy of father and pursue order, blueprints and the letter of the law.
patients on antibiotic therapy, diagnosed  with thrush, diarrhea or constipation should consider taking probiotics 2  capsules 3 times daily with meals.
in an attempt to locate the meridians  anatomically, two french drs.
this nerve disorder afflicts approximately 40,000 americans each year.
natural antihistamine herbs by andrew pacholyk, ms, l.ac.
something as simple as a food can become toxic if too much of it is eaten, especially if it is not properly metabolized.
when their father energy goes out of balance and  becomes unloving, they can become harsh and critical toward themselves and  others.
the main pattern differentiation being a wind invasion due  to emptiness of the channels (maclean and lyttleton 1998).
jung was an inspiration to all in the psychology field.
the recent banking & mortgage fraud is  small change in comparison.
one way of tackling these are through getting  information, by learning about your condition, gaining confidence in it, in  yourself and making informed choices for your future.
acupuncture: pre and post surgery by andrew pacholyk, ms, l.ac.
it's the next  rung on the ladder on your spiritual path.
recently, author caroline myss suggested child, amongst four the survival archetypes (victim, prostitute, and saboteur), present in all of us.
submitting an article?
a poultice of basil leaves can can  work as an antihistamine to draw out insect, bee wasp, or snake venom.
you  may access other health topics, all organized alphabetically.
-from mother to child.
the plant does not contain enough histamine to cause a problem when  taken orally.
furthermore, injections into rat specimens with hsv have recreated facial  paralysis in approximate 50% of specimens (gok, alpay et al. 2005).
as  we currently refer to the social, behavioral and language abnormalities as  autism, a more accurate diagnosis for most children with this disorder would be  autoimmune or dysimmune encephalopathy.
so many subjects, so many articles!!
"energy (qi) courses through the body in pathways called meridians.
some of the peptides are quite similar to morphine and, in theory, may  be the agents that cause autistic behavior.
others  who watch you gradually shift and change need to understand that you embrace  unconditional love as your choice in your life, and whatever lessons this  brings to you; you need for your growth.
jung also believed that "in spite of its function as a reservoir for human  darknessâ€”or perhaps because of thisâ€”the  shadow is the seat of creativity."; so that for some, it may be, 'the dark  side of his being, his sinister shadow...represents the true spirit of life as  against the arid scholar'.
before surgery, we sometimes manifest symptoms in the form of physical  pain, fatigue, tingling or numbness or most certainly stress and anxiety.
the high frequency, low intensity produced a very rapid analgesic effect, great for acute pain but, shorter in duration with no cumulative effects.
product containing nonoxyno1-9 (a spermicide) can kill hiv and may provide extra protection, but should not be relied on alone.
the high frequency, low intensity produced a very  rapid analgesic effect, great for acute pain but, shorter in duration with no  cumulative effects.
bio-electromagnetic theories are based on the current of injury, which is know to stimulate a healing response from the nearby cells.
these are the channels in the body, which are filled with our life force,  energy ï¿½ qi.
herb-drug interactions herb-drug interactions are very common.
the lives of the children of the insignificant are of no consequence.
injection of a vaccine with squalene, antifreeze, mercury, formaldehyde,  aluminum, a live virus or two, & other immune system stressors (adjuvants)  would be very effective at producing all the above.
treatment, as with this patient, may include numerous  diagnostic procedures, different classes of medications, lifestyle alterations,  and still, continued suffering.
jung called this level the "collective unconscious."
*** western medical theory the theory that gluten-free/casein-free diets can help young children with autism comes from studies suggesting that some cases of autistic behavior result from allergies or intolerances to the proteins in milk (casein) and found in wheat (gluten, also in other grains).
estrogen is itself a powerful antioxidant, neuro protector, & immune system enhancement.
in mythology, and in the study of folklore and religion, a trickster is a god,  goddess, spirit, man, woman, or anthropomorphic animal who plays tricks or  otherwise disobeys normal rules and conventional behavior.
a tiny amount of blood can transmit hiv, and can be injected directly into the bloodstream with the drugs.
they are highly creative, caring and intuitive.
in conclusion, bell's palsy is a physical and emotionally  debilitating condition in which conventional medicine has limited understanding  and efficacy.
if you are on hiv medication or medications for associated  symptoms or disorders, consider the information below: dong quai: taken for menopausal symptom control.
garlic: is thought to help lower cholesterol and prevent the  formation of blood clots that could lead to heart attacks.
food allergies can play a major role during childhood.
here are some of  the most accessible and reliable.
an allergy, by energetic definition, is the body's signal that something isn't right.
you may ask yourself, how do i live a more balanced life?
this essential oil has antihistamine properties  and helps with allergies.
the school districts that required  vaccinations, the doctors that gave them, the military that ordered them (gulf  war syndrome), the state & federal governments that approved them are all  guilty as well.
acupuncture accelerates the healing process, increases the immune function, helps the body build more red blood cells and regulates blood, increase circulation of lymph and othe body fluids, regulates the gastrointestinal tract and relieves pain.
scientific basis of acupuncture ï¿½ b. pomeranz acupuncture textbook and atlas, ny, ny 1987 3.
some are readily understood while others bring subliminal messages that are there to help you trigger your memory of why you are here and the truth behind the illusion of reality.
the lower your cd4 count, the greater your chances of getting a number of very serious diseases.
this is how you  help yourself and others shift into this new time.
the next time you watch  the evening news, please count the number of pharmakorp ads.
often times, it is the emotional thoughts or "excess emotions" that will lead to illness.
they become victim-martyrs, prosecutors who ultimately feel superior to their persecutors.
by doing so they are significantly improving the symptoms of autism.
do not take with other anti-depressants, hiv medications, oral  contraceptives, some heart/blood thinning medications and tamoxifen (a cancer  drug).
flaxseed  oil and flaxseed contain substances that promote good health and is used as a  nutritional supplement.
the effects of ingesting nonoxyno1-9  are unstudied.
the lower your cd4 count, the greater your chances of  getting a number of very serious diseases.
kreisand boesch, 1994 17.
hato, n., s. matsumoto, et al. (2003).
support each other through these  times; hold each other's hands and embrace each other's hearts emotionally  because this isn't an easy exercise for any of us.
in an attempt to locate the meridians anatomically, two french drs.
the colon requires bulk for it to achieve healthy movement.
it should be refrigerated to maximize shelf life.
archetypes can often convey messages that  verbal and written information cannot.
for oral sex on a woman or oral-anal sex (rimming) use a dental dam (latex square) a condom or latex glove cut to produce a flat sheet or non-microwaveable food wrap.
take a few deep breaths.
the main pattern differentiation being a wind invasion due to emptiness of the channels (maclean and lyttleton 1998).
alpha lipoic acid recycles and enhances the effects of both vitamin c  and vitamin e. alpha lipoic acid targets liver protection and is helpful for  patients on hepatotoxic medications such as antiretrovirals, antifungals and  typically any long-term medication protocols.
when we express their loving qualities, we become our best self for ourselves and for others.
bioflavonoids such as quercetin, might act synergistically with vitamin c as both have antihistaminic activity.
you will truly know who you are and express your  highest self.
your inner soul searching is powerful and takes you where you need to be in your life.
it ranges from  "childish to childlike longing for the innocent, regardless of age",  as mentioned in her work, sacred contracts, which talk of the presence many  aspects of the child archetype, ranging from the wounded child, abandoned or  orphan child, dependent child, magical/innocent child, nature child, to the  divine child and eternal child jung placed 'the child (including the child  hero)' in a list of archetypes incorporating 'the chief among them...like  milestones of the individuation process'.
this purple coneflower has shown to have antihistamine properties.
if boychild is in your unconscious, you will regrettably draw “bullies” to yourself, people who push your buttons.
vegetables such as acorn squash, raw broccoli, brussels sprouts,  cabbage, carrots, cauliflower, spinach, black-eyed peas, cooked zucchini,  kidney beans and lima beans.
this essential oil is helpful in the treatment of dermatitis due to allergic reactions.
as you learn how to do this, you'll  teach others how to do this because, as the consciousness shifts, others will  ask you,"how do you live in this in this fearful world without falling  apart?
when skin cells are pierced, as with an acupuncture needle, they start  leaking electrically charged ions into the surrounding areas of tissue.
it may be (in part) one's link to more primitive animal instincts, which are superseded during early childhood by the conscious mind.
in much of the  world this is no longer a risk, as blood donations are routinely tested.
these tests go by several different names, like pcr (polymerase chain reaction) or bdna (branched dna), but they all work roughly the same way.
giraud-guille, m.m. (1988) "twisted plywoodarchitecture of collagen fibrils in human compact bone osteons", calcif.
this archetype represents your rejected self,  and you project it onto others.
the meridians are said to circulate qi  throughout the system of the body.
licorice can be  consumed as a tea daily and the mushrooms may be included in food preparation  or taken in liquid tincture form for a more consistent higher dose.
the trickster or clown, is an example of a jungian archetype.
echinacea is a widely used herbal remedy  for treatment of upper respiratory tract infections.
"comparisons of steroid,  acyclovir, lipoprostoglandin e1 and steroid + acyclovir treatments in facial  paralysis: a rat study."
for some, however, the symptoms may last longer.
the essential oil has been shown to have antimicrobial activity against a host of different bacteria and fungi.
people who want mother, for example, are always looking to be nurtured by others.
acupuncture is very helpful during this time, since it helps to relieve anxiety, decrease pain symptoms that maybe occurring and strengthening the immune function.
he, s., h. zhang, et al. (1995).
the anima (animus) can be identified as the totality of the  unconscious feminine psychological qualities that a male possesses; or the  masculine ones possessed by the female.
the ancient art of acupuncture is the needling of specific points along "meridians" or channels that run throughout our body.
perhaps all the above.
the information provided is for educational purposes only and is not intended as diagnosis, treatment, or prescription of any kind.
together as antioxidants, these substances  are thought to be effective in helping to prevent certain cancers,  cardiovascular disease, and cataracts.
now a push is underway to dismiss the gender factor by explaining it away as better or different reporting, & that girls have close to the same autism rates as boys but just "display autism less obviously than boys" & other misrepresentations (hogwash).
instead,  fragments of them (peptides) get into the bloodstream and the central nervous  system before eventually being eliminated in the urine.
the biomechanical questions had to do with the presents of meridians in the body.
pau d'arco and una de gato: (cat's claw) are also clinically used to  stimulate immune function and may be consumed in tea form daily or liquid  tincture either during acute illness or as a preventative measure.
people can become infected with hiv from other people who already have it, and when they are infected they can then go on to infect other people.
researchers at johnson & johnson have found a very toxic compound in  the urine of children with autism - dermorphin.
the lives of the children of the  insignificant are of no consequence.
do not take with other migraine medications, as, it may raise heart rate and blood pressure.
of course, not all the symbols and images in our dreams represent the universal or archetypal.
use an unlubricated condom for oral sex if a man will come in  your mouth.
it is important for you to understand that, in your life, you have what you truly need to take the next steps into alignment.
it is rich in omega-3 fatty acids, especially alpha-linolenic acid, which appears to be beneficial for heart disease, inflammatory bowel disease, arthritis, cholesterol and a variety of other health conditions.
the fact that there has to be a "day" for this disorder,  saddens me, yet it is appropriate for everyone to be more aware and that is  why, as a society, we do this.
they count hiv's genetic material -- the building blocks of the virus.
after age 6, it is believed by experts that food plays a minimal role in most people.
according to metaphysical expert louise hay, allergies relate to the fact that we deny our own power!
they  experience life through serendipity.
-if sufficient blood from an infected person enters the body of an uninfected person then it can pass on the virus.
acting in conjunction with enzymes, the compound speeds up the vital metabolic process, providing the energy that the cells need to digest food, heal wounds, maintain healthy muscles, and perform other bodily functions as a major antioxidant in cardiac tissue and has protective effects on brain tissue.
this particular shift into alignment has a different quality of a deeper, inward, soul search --deeper than you've gone ever before.
archetypes can also be auditory - a tone - a series of notes - a harmonic...
that does not include attorney fees, court fees, pain & suffering, additional punitive damages, the "perp walk," or prison time in a small cell with ice pick johnson or the social director for the local chapter of the aryan nation.
dr jeff bradstreet has shed some amazing light on autism.
people with a high viral  load are much more likely to get sick or die of aids than people with a low  viral load.
you will have empathy and bring out the best in  yourself and in others.
(don't get cute, i'm talking about the bio-chemistry difference.)
the electrical  conductivity of acupoints researched by nakatani in the 1950s and by dr. robert  becker in the 1970s found that the points along the channels showed  significantly more electrical conductivity than areas of skin with  non-acupoints.
this is true for unprotected vaginal and anal sex.
carl jung is one of the most respected and recognized psychologists  of all time.
the allergy elimination diet by andrew pacholyk, ms, l.ac.
during the time of seasonal allergies, the body's immune  system sees pollen as an invader.
his work realized that acupoints correspond to regions where  motor nerves enter skeletal muscle and where there is a great density of motor  nerve terminal elements at the surface.
*at the end of 2006, women accounted for 48% of all adults living with hiv worldwide, and for 59% in sub-saharan africa.
one way of tackling these are through getting information, by learning about your condition, gaining confidence in it, in yourself and making informed choices for your future.
according to jung, the shadow, in being instinctive and irrational, is prone to projection: turning a personal inferiority into a perceived moral deficiency in someone else.
j of bodywork and moveme nt therapies.(series of articles.)
if someone offends you, watch how you react.
there are some conflicting studies on its use  long term as well as a caution that it may briefly increase viral load.
*africa has  12 million aids orphans.
stux g, pomeranz  b. acupuncture textbook and atlas.
many people know jung as one of sigmund freud's followers and co-workers.
(8) to ensure that the  drs. were measuring meridians and not blood vessels or lymphatic channels, some  patients received technetium injections adjacent to non-acupoint skin regions  as well as in nearby blood and lymphatic channels.
another very important test counts yourcd4 cells, sometimes called t-cells.
if you find yourself complaining, just watch the thoughts pass by.
do not take kava if you have a history of liver problems.
the connective tissue continuum embraces the concept that the cytoskeletal  structure of each individual cell in the body is a homunculus of the connective  tissue in which it creates.
i have found that approximately 12-14 treatments are needed to return the face back to its normal look and feel.
in western medicine, recent studies have shown that steroids are  probably effective and that the drug acyclovir combined with prednisone is  possibly effective in improving facial function.
when skin cells are pierced, as with an acupuncture needle, they start leaking electrically charged ions into the surrounding areas of tissue.
some of the peptides are quite similar to morphine and, in theory, may be the agents that cause autistic behavior.
this research represents much of the current  biological views on how acupuncture heals and tries to explain the biomedical  basis of holistic acupuncture.
to address the allergy properly, it is important to treat these underlying reasons, and not just the allergy itself.
it helps alleviate acne, heal abrasions and speeds healing when used on cuts.
patients who come in for treatment of bell's palsy will often tell  me they sleep with a fan on them (wind) or near an open window.
antioxidants are a classification of several organic substances, which include vitamins c and e, vitamin a (converted from beta- carotene), selenium, alpha lipoic acid, and carotenoids.
often times, it is  the emotional thoughts or "excess emotions" that will lead to illness.
boxwood: has been shown in research to foster immune stimulation and  promotion of t-cell activation.
each archetype has a light side and a dark  side.
inhibits psychological development' thus for jung 'the danger is that [people]  become identical with their personas - the professor with his textbook, the  tenor with his voice' the result could be 'the shallow, brittle, conformist  kind of personality which is "all persona", with its excessive  concern for "what people think" - an unreflecting state of mind 'in  which people are utterly unconscious of any distinction between themselves and  the world in which they live.
some people are more comfortable with one archetype than  another, and seek that energy in their relationships.
you will be given full credit: your name and business practice  address and website address, and phone number (if you prefer).
contains ephedrine, which can open  up bronchial passages.
when these points are stimulated, they release endorphins, our natural pain killers in the body.
there are hundreds of plants used all over the world, which are used in herbal medicine as treatments forhystamine attacks.
taking 6ï¿½50 grams of fresh or  powdered ginger per day indicated that ginger might be helpful.
this could be virtually  anything: things found in nature, man-made chemicals, even another person!
over and over again they found the same thing: the more viral load was reduced, the healthier the patients stayed.
autism by andrew pacholyk, ms, l.ac.
it is through this "liquid network" that scientist believe an electromagnetic response from acupuncture is solicited.
this inflammatory chemical attaches the cells in our body and causes irritation.
in later folklore, the  trickster/clown is incarnated as a clever, mischievous man or creature, who  tries to survive the dangers and challenges of the world using trickery and  deceit as a defense.
acupuncture therapy i treat bell's palsy in my practice all the time, as acupuncture  gets incredible results.
caraway seed oil: has antihistamine and antimicrobial properties and  is very effective in treating mild allergic reactions.
archetypes can also be auditory - a tone - a series of notes -  a harmonic...
vitamin c has antihistamine activity.
if this occurs, simply discontinue.
high doses can lead to increased blood pressure, water retention and potassium loss.
because a man's sensitivity must often be repressed, the anima is one of the most significant autonomous complexes of all.
make a tea and drink 2-3 times a day.
the anima and animus, in carl jung's school of analytical psychology, are the two primary anthropomorphic archetypes of the unconscious mind, as opposed to both the theriomorphic and inferior-function of the shadow archetypes, as well as the abstract symbol sets that formulate the archetype of the self.
elsevier science publ.
you will truly know who you are and express your highest self.
that way nobody has to pay $3 million to care for every child with autism for the rest of their lives.
this next piece is to feel aligned on all levels that you share, whether it  is how you work, how you relate to others, or how you live.
reality is a series of metaphors set into motion by the synchronicity of archetypes we experience.
this is often noted, but rarely explained as to "why?" this is a tremendous clue as to the true cause of autism & therefore  must be passed over & generally ignored by big medicine & the big media  which is strongly influenced by drug advertising money.
what is the difference between girls & boys?
hiv stands for the 'human immunodeficiency virus'.
to address the allergy properly, it is important to treat these  underlying reasons, and not just the allergy itself.
vibrational medicine for the 21 century- richard gerber m.d. eagle brook, ny, ny 2000 ï¿½ "acupuncture and chinese medicine" 9.
can cause nervousness and  excitation, and overuse can lead to headaches, insomnia and heart palpitations.
"acupuncture for bell's  palsy."
you are being guided by your intuition to go exactly where you need to go.
since reishi also promotes the adrenal function and  immune reaction, it has added effectiveness in controlling the body's reaction  to an allergen.
positive traits are spontaneity and openness to change'; negative, the emergence of a 'superficially entrancing but basically immature child-man who is incapable of commitment ...an identification with the divine child, mama's darling'.
collagens as liquid crystals, british association for the advancement of science, chemistry session:
continue at this pace and each day allow just alittle more time for yourself to meditate.
"everyone carries a  shadow," jung wrote, "and the less it is embodied in the individual's  conscious life, the blacker and denser it is."
at the cellular level, antioxidants  serve to deactivate certain free radicals in turn helping to decrease  inflammation.
acupuncture accelerates the healing process,  increases the immune function, helps the body build more red blood cells and  regulates blood, increase circulation of lymph and othe body fluids, regulates  the gastrointestinal tract and relieves pain.
all symptoms, including allergies, are indicative of an energy imbalance.
pomeranz discovered that pre-treating  rats with a drug called naloxone, a drug known to block the healing endorphins,  could not achieve acupuncture pain relief.
(don't get cute, i'm  talking about the bio-chemistry difference.)
this is now the protocol of choice for western doctors.
biological liquid  crystals carry static electric charges and are influenced by ph, salt  concentration and dielectric constant of the solvent.
no aids cases have been traced to kissing,  including deep (french) kissing.
when their sensitivity is trampled, however, the unloving side of  girlchild takes over.
after surgery, our bodies perceive this invasive procedure, as an attack.
1 to 2 grams of powdered glutamine may be mixed in smoothies or water.
(9) in 1975, dr. liu yk researched the location of acupoints present at sites  of motor nerves.
first you start to recognize how you and other people express these archetypes.
1000mg of fish oil in the morning and 1,000  mg in the evening.
even when these drugs do not depress mental activity,  they merely suppress allergy rather than cure it.
valerian: a mild sedative with hypnotic effects, used to promote sleep, should not be taken with alcohol or valium.
something as simple as a food can become toxic if too much of it is  eaten, especially if it is not properly metabolized.
imagine that you are on the bank of a river and that your thoughts are the river going by.
hsv has been  observed in saliva (furuta, fukuda et al. 1998) as well as muscle biopsy and  tears (kaygusuz, godekmerdan et al. 2004) of bell's palsy patients at  significantly higher rates than control groups.
never use cortisone, prednisone, or other steroid drugs to treat  allergic reactions unless they are very severe or life-threatening.
jung writes that  if these projections are unrecognized "the projection-making factor (the  shadow archetype) then has a free hand and can realize its object--if it has  one--or bring about some other situation characteristic of its power."
this archetype represents your rejected self, and you project it onto others.
hiv attacks cd4 cells, and as time goes by people with hiv often see  their cd4 counts drop.
also cooked whole- grain cereal, cold (all-bran, total, bran flakes), whole-grain cereal, hot (oatmeal, wheatena) and whole-wheat or 7-grain bread.
if you share sex toys like dildos or vibrators put on a fresh condom for each user (and when going from anus to vagina) or guard bleach alcohol or soap and water.
some studies show that  nonoxyno1-9 can cause genital irritation that may promote hiv infection,  especially with very frequent intercourse.
before surgery, we sometimes manifest symptoms in the form of physical pain, fatigue, tingling or numbness or most certainly stress and anxiety.
the treatment of acupuncture with needles in  the acupoints would cause a disturbance in the standard wave pattern caused by  new boundaries formed by the needle.
doing this allows you to relax and forget  about time.
and to stop the vaccinations could be seen as an admission that  something is wrong with them.
during the acute onset of a cold, 2 to 4 cups of strong echinacea tea or 3 capsules 3 times daily can help limit the course of the illness.
autism may be a symptom of several different biological entities which merely present as a similar behavioral complex in early child development.
suggested dosage: 0.5 to 1 mg of powdered ginger daily glutamine: is one of the most abundant amino acids in our bodies, found in the gastrointestinal tract.
a solution of an ionic salt of technetium was injected and followed over a period of time with a gamma ray camera.
gao hb, chen d. clinic al observation on 60 cases of  peripheral facial paralysis treated with acupointure penetration needling.
in the unconscious of the male, it finds expression as a  feminine inner personality: anima; equivalently, in the unconscious of the  female it is expressed as a masculine inner personality: animus.
what is 'healing energy'?the scientific basis of energy  medicine.
it considers that the kidneys dominate congenital situations.
a strong ego relates to the outside world through a flexible persona; identification with a specific persona (doctor, scholar, artist, etc.) inhibits psychological development' thus for jung 'the danger is that [people] become identical with their personas - the professor with his textbook, the tenor with his voice'
* z * featured articles by andrew pacholyk, ms, l.ac.
slice  up a ginger root boil it in eight cups of water for 30 minutes.
hundreds of topics are covered, including articles on health maladies, disorders and therapies.
the principle of  the connective tissue continuum is another approach at viewing the  correlation of acupuncture to the bio-electromagnetic theory.
your numbers two numbers should be looked at, when discussing hiv infection: if you are being treated for hiv or aids, your doctor uses a number  of blood tests to check how you're doing.
the most important herbs for  this disorder should include herbs to treat wind attack and anti-viral herbs  such as qin jiao, fang feng, xi xin, bai shao, di long, fu ling, gan cao, chuan  xiong, pu gong ying, dang gui.
optimal intake of fiber is about 25-30 grams per day.
molecular self-assembly in science and life, sept. 1, keele.
reishi (ganoderma lucidum): hailed the "mushroom of immortality", one of my favorite natural remedies is reishi (ling zhi).
the term archetype began with carl jung.
taking 6ï¿½50 grams of fresh or powdered ginger per day indicated that ginger might be helpful.
his  'female counterpart is the puella, an "eternal girl" with a  corresponding attachment to the father-world'.
this is even more so with steroid drugs (cortisone and related  compounds).
it is this theory, which implicates the em fields of the entire body.
it is said to manifest  itself by appearing in dreams.
fish oil: is known for being rich in unsaturated fatty acids and provides rich omega-3 fatty acids, (pure epa 360mg/dha 240mg).
your conscious archetype is the one you  think through and how you relate to others in a general way.
* your methods, techniques and "bedside manners" to enhance health.
thus for jung, '"the child is potential  future"', with the archetype 'symbolizing the whole personality in its  development from primordial unconsciousness to ego consciousness to self'.
do you aspire to mother, to people who nurture and teach?
the goldman-sachs & bank bailout was only 700 billion.
acetyl-l-carnitine is related to the amino acid l-carnitine, which is a carrier of fatty acids across mitochondrial membranes, where energy is produced within each cell.
the needle activates the current of injury response resulting in a change in the em field, producing changes in the biological response, which may promote healing.
in: hochachka and mommsen (eds.).
make as a tea  and drink 2-3 times per day.
jung said that sexual drive doesn't even motivate us as much as the fear of death.
if  it’s conscious mother, you would rather have all of your bases covered  before making a move.
birds frequently symbolize various kinds of love or concern; water is often suggestive of the spirit itself.
hiv statistics *more than 25 million people have died of aids since 1981.
do not mix dong  quai with warfarin (anticoagulants), st john's wort and some antibiotics such  as sulfonamides, quinolones.
vitamin c is believed to be a natural antihistamine agent if used at  high doses, around 3,000mg to 5,000mg a day.
no brave and valiant prince or knight manages to win them, until a poor and simple peasant comes.
valerian: a mild sedative with hypnotic effects, used to promote  sleep, should not be taken with alcohol or valium.
cd4 cells are a key part of your body's disease-fighting defenses, called the immune system.
should not be taken with hiv medications.
it is not possible to become infected with hiv through: -sharing crockery and cutlery -touching,
as i work in the area of fertility, it is the occasional pregnant patient that will present with this disorder, as well.
use caution with hiv medications.
therefore, the cause of autism is likely to be connected to oxidative stress (free radical damage by a powerful oxidant), something which damages brain tissue, something which challenges the immune system, uses up large amounts of glutathione, or perhaps an active virus or bacterial infection.
just email them to us directly: write article comments, questions?
the chinese doctors said  that, when the mother has "weak" kidney (this condition will not be  detected or considered as a problem in terms of western medicine) during her  pregnancy, her system is not absorbing vitamin b6 properly.
it is an essential component of cells and is utilized by the mitochondria in the normal process of energy production.
more times than not, the patient that walks into my office is often,  under great stress!
vibrational medicine for the 21 century- richard gerber m.d. eagle brook,  ny, ny 2000 ï¿½ "acupuncture and chinese medicine" 9.
in the unconscious of the male, it finds expression as a feminine inner personality: anima; equivalently, in the unconscious of the female it is expressed as a masculine inner personality: animus.
here all  minds could communicate through the use of universal symbols - images which  seem to have a common meaning among people all over the world.
jung thought that dreams were a tool to help us grow, not just to release extreme sexual desires.
jung was an inspiration to all in the psychology  field.
there are many types of liquid crystals, from those which are most liquid, to those which are most solid.
tcm seeks to address any imbalance in health by affecting this energy.
*disclaimer: this information is not intended to be a substitute for  professional medical advice.
possible side effects include skin rash and the potential of hypoglycemia in diabetic patients.
stinging nettle (urtica dioica): the very same plant that will produce  hives if its hairs inject their histamine into you can work to heal the  problem.
this stress caused by the surgery weakens the immune system, disruputes the gastrointestinal tract and leaves the body more vulnerable to infection.
it is said to manifest itself by appearing in dreams.
acetyl-l-carnitine: is a molecule that occurs naturally in the brain, liver, and kidney.
it is one of the three most recognizable archetypes, the others  being the anima and animus and the persona.
the hypothalamus-pituitary releases beta-endorphins into the blood and cerebral spinal fluid to create an analgesic effect by causing incoming pain signals from reaching the brain.
*your knowledge in regards to healing.
please e-mail us my writing staff will go over them and we will post them both to the alternative answers community at yahoogroups.com and to our website at peacefulmind.com under the appropriate therapies on our site!
another very  important test counts yourcd4 cells, sometimes called t-cells.
acetyl-l-carnitine is related to the amino acid l-carnitine, which is a carrier  of fatty acids across mitochondrial membranes, where energy is produced within  each cell.
acupuncture, post-surgery, can start as soon as possible.
the plant does not contain enough histamine to cause a problem when taken orally.
they are highly competitive and do whatever it takes to reach their goal.
this is now the protocol of  choice for western doctors.
alternative medicine and hiv over the last decade, researchers have identified a number of drugs  that slow progression of the virus as well as therapies to treat the many  opportunistic infections that attack people with hiv disease.
limited research does show that  some children with autism can't break down the proteins completely.
with the  help of his wits and cleverness, instead of fighting, he evades or fools  monsters and villains and dangers with unorthodox manners.
-oral sex carries a lower risk, but again hiv transmission can occur here if a condom is not used - for example, if one partner has bleeding gums or an open cut, however small, in their mouth.
you become aware of them in meditation - dreamtime - remote viewing or other out-of-body experiences - when you doodle on a pad - crop circles or landscape art, other art forms, jewelry, hieroglyphs, a logo, on a billboard - anywhere at all.
knowing the mechanics of the damage of autism points a big finger at the cause.
studies have shown that glutamine is one of the best amino acid supplements in maintaining a healthy gastrointestinal lining and helps to repair gastrointestinal damage.
you can manipulate an infant's diet and do well in helping their skin.
may interact with anti-coagulant medications such as aspirin, coumadin, heparin and warfarin, causing the blood to thin too much, and provoking a serious bleeding disorder.
free radicals promote  beneficial oxidation that produces energy and kills bacterial invaders.
your numbers two numbers should be looked at, when discussing hiv infection: if you are being treated for hiv or aids, your doctor uses a number of blood tests to check how you're doing.
it is an archetype of the collective  unconscious and not an aggregate of father or mother, brothers, sisters, aunts,  uncles or teachers, though these aspects of the personal unconscious can  influence for good or ill the person.
oral sex on a man without ejaculation or on a non-menstruating woman is thought to be low risk activity.
fish oils are made from natural marine lipid concentrate and may help reduce or inhibit risk factors involved in cardiovascular disease, as well as inflammatory and immune disorders.
who said females were the weaker sex?
before parents can make the right decisions regarding their child's care, a good diagnosis is critical.
this could be virtually anything: things found in nature, man-made chemicals, even another person!
variations on this formula are important to change as the patient's situation change.
other researchers have confirmed it is essentially always present in children with autism that receive even tiny amounts of casein or gluten.
otology &  neurotology: official publication of the american otological society, american  neurotology society
but it is critical that the cause of autism must be believed to be some  vague general pollution, parental neglect, or genetics.
people who use illegal injected drugs are also vulnerable to hiv infection.
st. john's wort: a natural anti-depressant for mild to moderate  depression.
sources of chinese tradition ï¿½vol.
the radioactive technetium followed the exact same pathways of the meridian channels described and illustrated in several hundred-year-old acupuncture charts of the human body!
keywords acupuncture, biomechanical,  biochemical, electromagnetic, biosciences, healing, meridians, channels,  traditional chinese medicine, analgesic, connective tissue, cellular biology,  health, eastern, western, medical, paradigm, physiology, physics.
oschman, james l. (oct.  1996-jan. 1998)
the essential oil has been  shown to have antimicrobial activity against a host of different bacteria and  fungi.
again this emotional aspect is, indeed, part of the ellimination diet that must be addressed as well, in order to heal.
am jacup 1995; 23(3),205-210.
st. john's wort: a natural anti-depressant for mild to moderate depression.
this form of acupuncture stops pain, relaxes the facial paralysis, brings the feeling back through the nerve endings, stops the drooling and tearing and helps the eye close again.
jewelweed is also used for heat rash, ringworm and many other skin disorders, as well as bug bites and razor burn.
ginseng: used to help reduce stress, boost energy and improve stamina, and may also help lower cholesterol.
as i work in the area of fertility, it is the occasional pregnant  patient that will present with this disorder, as well.
it is the deficiency of this enzyme  that triggers an allergic reaction as histamines gathers in the synapses.
(12) the electrical conductivity of acupoints has been known for several decades thanks to the work of nakatani in the 1950s and by dr. robert becker in the 1970s.
as we currently refer to the social, behavioral and language abnormalities as autism, a more accurate diagnosis for most children with this disorder would be autoimmune or dysimmune encephalopathy.
in  conclusion by looking at the bioscience attempts in explaining the way  holistic acupuncture works in healing, we are introduced to some very notable  concepts.
second, re-introduce the food (one at a time only) back into your diet for a week.
support each other through these times; hold each other's hands and embrace each other's hearts emotionally because this isn't an easy exercise for any of us.
in later folklore, the trickster/clown is incarnated as a clever, mischievous man or creature, who tries to survive the dangers and challenges of the world using trickery and deceit as a defense.
coq10: (coenzyme q10) is a vitamin-like compound also called "ubiquinone".
acupuncture points are strategic conductors of electromagnetic signals.
first, eliminate the food you feel is causing trouble for a two week  period.
acupuncture remained relatively unheard of until 1974 when james reston, a reporter for the new york times accompanied president nixon on a trip to china where they witnessed an appendectomy and several demonstrations of serious surgeries being performed with acupuncture as the only anesthetic using acupuncture anesthesia.
traditional chinese medicine, acupuncture and herbal medicine "the causes of autism can be either postnatal (after birth) or congenital (during pregnancy).
so before and after you have surgery, consider having acupuncture and help your body to a speedy recovery!
tea can be made from the leaves or cooked as greens.
autism may be a symptom of several different biological entities which  merely present as a similar behavioral complex in early child development.
other studies (gao, chen, 1991) revealed that 80% of cases that were treated at more than 2 months post-onset, and 83 percent of severe cases, were cured or had excellent effect (6).
the four universal archetypes or energies are known as our inner family archetypes, because they are best described through the concepts of father, mother, boychild and girlchild.
this essential oil has antihistamine properties and helps with allergies.
although some doctors of natural medicine advise people with hay fever to take 400 mg of quercetin two to three times per day, only limited preliminary clinical research has yet suggested that quercetin benefits people with this condition.
use water-based lubricant (k-y, astroglide, and probe); oil-containing products (crisco, vaseline, baby oil, lotion, and whipped cream) can destroy latex.
(11) this was exciting new biomechanical evidence in both identifying the  meridian channels in the human body and the fact that the acupuncture points on  the body have corresponding volume densities that increase with stimulation.
he, l., d. zhou, et al. (2004).
echinacea: mostly taken as an immune boost to prevent cold and flu.
boys lack one & have less of the other.
glutamine is one of the most abundant amino acids in our bodies, found in the gastrointestinal tract.
beta-carotene: (carotenoids), of which beta-carotenes are the most popular, are found in many fruits and vegetables, animals, plants and microorganisms.
do not mix dong quai with warfarin (anticoagulants), st john's wort and some antibiotics such as sulfonamides, quinolones.
some physicians may prescribe a corticosteroid drug to help  reduce inflammation and an analgesic to relieve pain.
int  j clin acup 1991; 2(1),25-28.
what you are doing  here is walking with a foot in two different worlds, gathering the strength  from both dimensions.
acupuncture may often lead to significant  clinical improvement (7).
it should be  refrigerated to maximize shelf life.
the ideal combination of soluble fiber (psyllium husk) and insoluble fiber (flax oil, fiber) helps to absorb water and toxins and adds roughage to bulk up stool and sweep away built up debris in the intestinal tract.
the next time you watch the evening news, please count the number of pharmakorp ads.
keywords acupuncture, biomechanical, biochemical, electromagnetic, biosciences, healing, meridians, channels, traditional chinese medicine, analgesic, connective tissue, cellular biology, health, eastern, western, medical, paradigm, physiology, physics.
do not mix echinacea with some heart medications, antifungal medications, hiv medications and anti-anxiety medications.
papaya  juice can be taken internally as well as applied topically to diffuse a  histamine attack.
in an allergic reaction, our body produces histamine, as a defense mechanism.
as a result, this child would be born with brain function  disorder.
journal of traditional chinese medicine 15(1): 63-67.
limited research does show that some children with autism can't break down the proteins completely.
the anima (animus) can be identified as the totality of the unconscious feminine psychological qualities that a male possesses; or the masculine ones possessed by the female.
-oral sex carries a lower risk, but again hiv transmission can occur  here if a condom is not used - for example, if one partner has bleeding gums or  an open cut, however small, in their mouth.
you will understand what trips you up and where  other people are coming from.
in conclusion by looking at the bioscience attempts in explaining the way holistic acupuncture works in healing, we are introduced to some very notable concepts.
when we have set our goals for truth, and  living the life of unconditional love, we must remember that, it will always  take us to the next steps of our spiritual journey.
the principle of treatment is to expel wind and promote the movement of qi and blood by scattering the stagnation.
however, in excess, they produce harmful oxidation or"oxidative stress" that can damage cell membranes and cell contents.
this form of acupuncture stops pain, relaxes the facial  paralysis, brings the feeling back through the nerve endings, stops the  drooling and tearing and helps the eye close again.
so before and after you have surgery, consider having acupuncture and help  your body to a speedy recovery!
reliability of the house and  brackmann grading system for facial palsy.
it is not possible to become infected with hiv through: -sharing crockery and cutlery -insect / animal bites -touching, hugging or shaking hands -eating food prepared by someone with hiv -toilet seats global statistics can be found at: http://www.avert.org/worldstats.htm know
the dream symbol of a rifle, for example, would likely mean one thing to a gunsmith and something quite different to a victim of war.
it is an essential component of cells and is utilized  by the mitochondria in the normal process of energy production.
seattle: eastland press 1981; 367-372.
this must be done without fear of change or resistance to growth.
people who express a strong mother archetype live to nurture life.
his theories are instrumental in psychology and psychiatry fields today.
with the western medicine approach of drug treatment, most patients begin to get significantly better within 3-4 weeks, and about 80 percent recover completely within 3 months.
jungians exploring the hero myth have noted that 'over and over again one hears a tale describing the hero's miraculous but humble birth', and have considered that '"it represents our efforts to deal with the problem of growing up, aided by the illusion of an eternal fiction"'.
chamomile can cause histaminic allergic reactions in some very sensitive people.
an  old woman or an old man or a grandfatherly figure can symbolize our own  "higher self' or our own internal wisdom.
estrogen is itself a powerful antioxidant, neuro protector, & immune  system enhancement.
if you have mother in the unconscious, you will tend to magnetize  abandonment.
o'connor j, bensky d. acupuncture a comprehensive text.
use all barrier only once and only on one person.
if father is your unconscious archetype, you may encounter more than a fair share of trouble with the law, and be prone to criticism.
"energy (qi) courses through the body in  pathways called meridians.
one study found that  approximately 50% of bell's palsy patients show signs of the virus compared to  approximately 19% of the normal population (furuta, fukuda et al. 1998).
jung also believed that "in spite of its function as a reservoir for human darknessâor perhaps because of thisâthe shadow is the seat of creativity."; so that for some, it may be, 'the dark side of his being, his sinister shadow...represents the true spirit of life as against the arid scholar'.
one of the most important tests  measuresviral load, the amount of hiv in your blood.
the trickster is  an enduring archetype that crosses many cultures and appears in a wide variety  of popular media.
viruses infect the cells of living organisms and  replicate (make new copies of themselves) within those cells.
fennel is rich with the antioxidant flavonoid  "quercetin".
chinese medicine and acupuncture on a regular basis can significantly improve results and help to resolve this condition.
the radioactive tracers tended to diffuse outward from the injection site into a typical small circular pattern.
avoid  long term (7- 10 days only) use as well as use prior to viral load blood  counts.
the most biologically active tissues in the body.
should not be used if you are taking prescriptions  for high blood pressure or coumadin.
when your cd4 count is below 200,  the risk of illness becomes severe.
claude darras and pierre de vernejoul injected human studies with radioactive isotopes into acupuncture points.
the lack of vitamin  b6 and other vital elements interrupted structural and functional development  of the brain.
your subconscious archetype rules how you feel.
scientific basis of acupuncture ï¿½ b. pomeranz  acupuncture textbook and atlas, ny, ny 1987 7.
grogan, p. and g. gronseth (2004).
several groups of  researchers have identified these peptides in urine samples from children with  autism.
in traditional chinese medical theory, the  "kidney" is the congenital organ, while "spleen" is the  essential postnatal organ function.
suggested  dosage: 0.5 to 1 mg of powdered ginger daily glutamine: is one of the most abundant amino acids in our bodies,  found in the gastrointestinal tract.
the recent banking & mortgage fraud is small change in comparison.
the common cold sore virus, herpes simplex virus (hsv), and other herpes viruses are the likely cause of many cases of bell's palsy.
the school districts that required vaccinations, the doctors that gave them, the military that ordered them (gulf war syndrome), the state & federal governments that approved them are all guilty as well.
stinging nettle (urtica dioica): the very same plant that will produce hives if its hairs inject their histamine into you can work to heal the problem.
it is  believed that connective tissues may be largely responsible for the rapid  intercommunication that enables our body to function effectively as a coherent  whole, and is therefore central to our health and well-being.
therefore the most  unlikely candidate passes the trials and receives the reward.
traditional chinese medicine (tcm) also looks at allergies in an  energetic way.
sources of  chinese tradition ï¿½vol.
wind is thought to take  advantage of the deficiency (weakness) a patient is experiencing and enters the  body attacking the sinews and vessels in the area of the face.
consider these alternative therapies: acupuncture, ayurveda,  bodywork & massage, diet therapies, herbal medicine, homeopathy, mind-body  therapies, siddha medicine, traditional chinese medicine, unani medicine and  yoga.
people who may be deficient in vitamin b1 (such as alcoholics) should take vitamin b1 along with alpha lipoic acid supplements.
it will allow you to relate to your loved ones in a more authentic way so you can strengthen your relationships.
despite many efforts to prove it's efficiency, western science has never been able to reconcile how acupuncture works.
this research attempts to accommodate the holographic nature of acupuncture such as the homunculus or miniature representation of the whole body represented in the ears and the feet.
sometimes our own dreams may contain these kinds of symbols.
quercetin is a strong natural antihistamine shown to be  very helpful for allergies and histamine-related inflammation.
*at the end of 2006, women accounted for 48% of  all adults living with hiv worldwide, and for 59% in sub-saharan africa.
by activating small myelinated nerve fibers, acupuncture applications send impulses to the spinal chord, midbrain and pituitary-hypothalamus in the diencephelon.
the joy comes in knowing  that you are clearly provided for, taken care of and never alone.
in many parts of the world, often because it is illegal to possess them, injecting equipment or works are shared.
the most important of these are goldenrod and ragweed (ambrosia ambrosioides).
hiv can be transmitted from an infected woman  to her baby during pregnancy, delivery and breastfeeding.
many, if not most, are best interpreted by discovering the personal associations one has with that person or object.
furuta (1998) discovered in his trial that hsv became undetectable after two weeks onset of bell's palsy.
therefore you  should not expect to receive the truth about any heavy advertiser on tv, or for  that matter, in medical journals either.
that was just about stealing money.
a drop of lube inside the condom may increase sensitivity.
on the biochemistry and cell physiologyof water.
listen to your body; if you are tired, rest and you'll be better for it.
once you know your archetypes, you can move towards overcoming the  limitations of your specific pattern.
we are always looking for experts to write informative, interesting  articles on alternative health, healing, the metaphysical arts, massage  therapy, color therapy, yoga therapy...
the electrical conductivity of acupoints researched by nakatani in the 1950s and by dr. robert becker in the 1970s found that the points along the channels showed significantly more electrical conductivity than areas of skin with non-acupoints.
an allergy, by energetic definition, is the body's signal that something  isn't right.
a tiny amount  of blood can transmit hiv, and can be injected directly into the bloodstream  with the drugs.
the exposure to external sources (stress, environment) cause the  immune system to produce an inflammatory response.
also do not mix with antidepressants, sedatives, and do not mix kava with alcohol.
jung developed many theories about dreams, a lot of them disagreeing with  freud.
1 wm theodore debary, irene  bloom columbia university press ny, ny 1999 2.
do not take with other anti-depressants, hiv medications, oral contraceptives, some heart/blood thinning medications and tamoxifen (a cancer drug).
studies have shown that glutamine is one of the best  amino acid supplements in maintaining a healthy gastrointestinal lining and  helps to repair gastrointestinal damage.
whether you have been diagnosed with hiv or not there should be an  emphasis on improving lifestyle issues.
viral load tests, which tell the doctor how much hiv is in your  blood, are a very important clue to how quickly hiv is doing harm.
natural, accurate ways to test for food allergies and food  sensitivities that are non-invasive.
avoid brushing your teeth two hours before or after oral sex to minimize abrasions.
"these instruments were  known by the ancients as "bian" in the han dynasty (206 bc to 220 ad)  an analytical dictionary of characters "shuo wen jie zi" describes  the character "bian" as meaning a stone to treat disease.
pomeranz discovered that pre-treating rats with a drug called naloxone, a drug known to block the healing endorphins, could not achieve acupuncture pain relief.
"comparisons of steroid, acyclovir, lipoprostoglandin e1 and steroid + acyclovir treatments in facial paralysis: a rat study."
there are special  drugs that can greatly reduce the chances of this happening, but they are  unavailable in much of the developing world.
if your conscious archetype is girlchild, you see the  world through intuitive, spherical and highly creative eyes.
it's controversial because it's a powerful stimulant  that can raise blood pressure, cause insomnia and high blood pressure.
it can help you to deal with  some situations.
at the cellular level, antioxidants serve to deactivate certain free radicals in turn helping to decrease inflammation.
later these stones were replaced by needles made of bamboo and slivers of animal bone, then finally in the shang dynasty bronze casting techniques made metal needles possible, which conducted electricity and qi.
people with a high viral load are much more likely to get sick or die of aids than people with a low viral load.
if it’s conscious mother, you would rather have all of your bases covered before making a move.
energetic definition of allergy does not require immune response to an allergen, only a reaction of some kind: something which disrupts the balance of a person's qi in any way.
for example many typical fairy tales have the king who wants to find the best  groom for his daughter by ordering several trials.
"these instruments were known by the ancients as "bian" in the han dynasty (206 bc to 220 ad) an analytical dictionary of characters "shuo wen jie zi" describes the character "bian" as meaning a stone to treat disease.
healthy adults and teenagers usually have a cd4 count of at least 800 cells per cubic millimeter of blood (a cubic millimeter is a very small amount, roughly one small drop).
if you have never meditated before, you will  probably feel as if your mind is full of thoughts.
traditional chinese medicine views the human body system as whole.
becker's work on the large intestine and the pericardium meridians found that the points along these channels showed significantly more electrical conductivity than areas of skin with non-acupoints.
the growing child 'caught up in the complex [as] adult believes that  she or he is especially wonderful, as wonderful as an idealized child...unable  to see the problems with feeling like the king - superior, special, or unique'.
you will be given full credit: your name and business practice address and website address, and phone number (if you prefer).
for adults, diet manipulation should be undergone by each individual.
all of that is powerful motivation to lie, cover up, bribe politicians, fund slanted & fraudulent medical studies to exonerate vaccines, & delay & stall so the guilty can enjoy their lives in freedom & luxury till their personal clocks run out.
this inflammatory chemical attaches the  cells in our body and causes irritation.
japanese researchers  have found that reishi acts as an antihistamine, making it useful for treating  allergies.
scientific evidence has shown that acupuncture stimulates the central  nervous system, which is our brain and spinal chord.
you are not ever without support and you must hold tightly to your truth.
all "functional organs" interact and influence each other.
when your cd4 count is below 200, the risk of illness becomes severe.
**please note: in traditional chinese medicine the term "organs" are not the organs western anatomical science refers to.
a virus can also  damage human cells, which is one of the things that can make an infected  creature become ill.
take your resting pulse rate for a full 60 seconds.
in trying to find ways to help his own child, he has open doors that can help you.
boys lack one & have less of  the other.
view shopping cart/checkout questions?
a weak electrical battery-like charge is created.
papaya (petroselinum crispum): inhibits the secretion of histamine.
there is a risk that hiv could enter through small cuts of opening in the mouth gums of throat.
this research takes a look at the different approaches the biosciences have attempted in explaining the way holistic acupuncture works in healing.
all of that is powerful motivation to lie, cover up, bribe  politicians, fund slanted & fraudulent medical studies to exonerate  vaccines, & delay & stall so the guilty can enjoy their lives in  freedom & luxury till their personal clocks run out.
(9) in 1975, dr. liu yk researched the location of acupoints present at sites of motor nerves.
international journal of pediatric  otorhinolaryngology 69(9): 1199-1204.
in mythology, and in the study of folklore and religion, a trickster is a god, goddess, spirit, man, woman, or anthropomorphic animal who plays tricks or otherwise disobeys normal rules and conventional behavior.
if girlchild is your rejected archetype, you may draw to yourself wounded people who seek to prosecute you for an alleged offense.
the primary function of coq10 is as a catalyst for metabolism.
the growing child 'caught up in the complex [as] adult believes that she or he is especially wonderful, as wonderful as an idealized child...unable to see the problems with feeling like the king - superior, special, or unique'.
worlds aids day: hiv and alternative medicine by andrew pacholyk, ms, l.ac.
if symptoms start to recur (itchy throat, phlegm, digestive  upset, nasal congestion...)
that's the main biochemical difference between boys & girls.
in jung's terms -  'archetype' is defined as the first original model of which all other similar  persons, objects, or concepts are merely derivative, copied, patterned, or  emulated.
this essential oil is helpful in  the treatment of dermatitis due to allergic reactions.
if you find yourself complaining, just  watch the thoughts pass by.
this stress  caused by the surgery weakens the immune system, disruputes the  gastrointestinal tract and leaves the body more vulnerable to infection.
others have warned however of the dangers posed to the parents by 'the  "archetype of the divine child"...an emotional pull toward imagining  an extraordinary potential contained in the infant'.
* o * p * q * r * s *t * u * v * w * x,y
even when these drugs do not depress mental activity, they merely suppress allergy rather than cure it.
there is no need to fear the unknown and when you release the fear  and develop trust you will take your next step in spiritual growth.
also  do not mix with antidepressants, sedatives, and do not mix kava with alcohol.
in an allergic reaction, our body produces  histamine, as a defense mechanism.
many people in the past have been infected with hiv by the use of blood transfusions and blood products which were contaminated with the virus - in hospitals, for example.
if you have never meditated before, you will probably feel as if your mind is full of thoughts.
although as yet, there is no cure, the key to effective treatment is  early detection and intervention.
treatment started with a week of the event, can improve the symptoms with 6 visits with complete recovery and normal facial symmetry within 12 -14 visits.
the mix may lower heart rate too much.
this does not explain how stimulating acupoints with low level, non-invasive lasers could achieve the same therapeutic effects.
autism is about stealing lives.
a recent report in the new england  journal of medicine describes a case of a man who'd been taking aspirin to  prevent a heart attack and had spontaneous bleeding into the eye from the iris  within a week of taking a daily dose of ginkgo.
you are most likely allergic or have some type of  sensitivity to that particular food.
with the help of his wits and cleverness, instead of fighting, he evades or fools monsters and villains and dangers with unorthodox manners.
however, excessive stress can cause physical symptoms, it can  damage your immune system and make you ill.
supplements that can boost the  immune function and reduce infection include vitamins, minerals and amino acid.
acupuncturist heidi m. hawkins, l.ac explains allergies in  tcm, which is an energetic medical system, meaning it affects a person's health  via their energy systems.
the result could be 'the shallow, brittle, conformist kind of personality which is "all persona", with its excessive concern for "what people think" - an unreflecting state of mind 'in which people are utterly unconscious of any distinction between themselves and the world in which they live.
the allergy elimination diet is the best way to balance all  aspects of your mind, body and emotional spirit.
there are some conflicting studies on its use long term as well as a caution that it may briefly increase viral load.
can increase blood pressure.
just thinking about the procedure can make us a nervous wreak.
thyme (thymus vulgaris): is a natural antihistamine, as well as having antiseptic properties to help purge infections.
in: hochachka and mommsen  (eds.).
traditional chinese medicine (tcm) also looks at allergies in an energetic way.
but the beauty is, when you do release and let go and open, the newness will be brought to you in a new level of comfort.
jewelweed (impatiens aurea): contains a compound called "lawsone" that treats uticaria.
beta-carotene: (carotenoids), of which beta-carotenes are the most popular,  are found in many fruits and vegetables, animals, plants and microorganisms.
this does not explain how stimulating acupoints with low level,  non-invasive lasers could achieve the same therapeutic effects.
* your methods, techniques and  "bedside manners" to enhance health.
just  thinking about the procedure can make us a nervous wreak.
in a few  cases, the symptoms may never completely disappear.
it takes you into a new  place, in your life.
many of the symptoms have been reduced by as much as 90%.
all  "sensitivities" and "intolerances" are included in this, a  very broad definition of allergy.
choose joy and  alignment in your life.
a solution of an  ionic salt of technetium was injected and followed over a period of time with a  gamma ray camera.
hence, there is much work to be done in testing and researching these chemicals and their possible effects with acupuncture.
jewelweed is used as a natural remedy for poison ivy,  poison oak, okra spines, stinging nettle and acne treatment.
licorice: used to treat coughs, colds and peptic ulcers.
one general treatment strategy, therefore, is to follow a  low-protein diet andtry to eliminate milk and milk products.
a  drop of lube inside the condom may increase sensitivity.
scientific basis of acupuncture ï¿½ b. pomeranz acupuncture textbook and atlas, ny, ny 1987 7.
consider these alternative therapies: acupuncture, ayurveda, bodywork & massage, diet therapies, herbal medicine, homeopathy, mind-body therapies, siddha medicine, traditional chinese medicine, unani medicine and yoga.
they love to guide and teach others, and provide stability in any given situation.
the stage was set thereby  for what jung termed enantiodromia - the emergence of the repressed  individuality from beneath the persona later in life: 'the individual will  either be completely smothered under an empty persona or an enantiodromia into  the buried opposites will occur'
the  goldman-sachs & bank bailout was only 700 billion.
your inner  soul searching is powerful and takes you where you need to be in your life.
abstract in trying to find ways to unite or just bring closer  the mysterious transformational techniques of the east to the reductionism  theories of the west, our western medical science has tried to organize a  logical explanation of how the insertion of tiny acupuncture needles can reduce  and even dissolve pain in the human form.
1 wm theodore debary, irene bloom columbia university press ny, ny 1999 2.
"practice parameter: steroids, acyclovir, and surgery for bell's palsy (an evidence-based review): report of the quality standards subcommittee of the american academy of neurology."
a * b * c * d * e * f * g * h *
echinacea (echinacea purpurea):
vibrational medicine for the 21 century- richard gerber m.d. eagle brook, ny, ny 2000 ï¿½ "acupuncture and chinese medicine" 4.
even where impacting less acutely, the archetype may produce 'a man who remains too long in adolescent psychology, generally associated with a strong unconscious attachment to the mother (actual or symbolic).
bio-electromagnetic theories science has long been aware of an electrical phenomenon called the "current of injury".
the highest combination of wave amplitudes forms the  acupuncture points and meridians by means of constructive interference.
you are being guided  by your intuition to go exactly where you need to go.
eyebright and elder also have a reputation for use as hay fever remedies.
by binding to the opiate receptors that are found throughout the nervous system, endorphins are able to stop pain.
do you long for someone who impersonates the mystical kindness of girlchild or do you hunger for the zestful enthusiasm of a boychild warrior?
use  caution with hiv medications.
knowing your unconscious archetype is also key in determining the  quality of your relationships.
the alignment in the very core of your soul needs to be shifted and tuned until you can feel the balance of alignment.
acupuncture has been shown to change our brain chemistry related to sensation,  innvoluntary body functions and in turn, strengthens our immune system.
the ones that resemble solid crystal will have order and will remain flexible and responsive.
among the 600 or more carotenoids in foods, beta-carotene, lycopene, and lutein  are well- known leaders in the fight to reduce the damage from free radicals  and are helpful with eye health.
the body converts beta carotene into vitamin a. vitamin a is a fat-soluble vitamin essential for vision, growth, cell division, reproduction and immunity.
researchers at johnson & johnson have found a very toxic compound in the urine of children with autism - dermorphin.
pop quiz: what's another word for ten trillion dollars?
as antihistamines essential oils should be used in a base oil (to avoid irritation) and  massaged on the skin.
it's a very supportive place, and you will feel the self-empowerment in walking in both worlds.
preventing other stds can in turn minimize your chances of getting hiv infection, since many stds cause sores in the genital or anal area or around the mouth which can provide a path for hiv transmission.
-contact with blood from an infected person.
whips or knives that break the skin should not be used on another person until disinfected with bleach or a cleaning solution.
although some doctors of  natural medicine advise people with hay fever to take 400 mg of quercetin two  to three times per day, only limited preliminary clinical research has yet  suggested that quercetin benefits people with this condition.
the next step is to understand which archetype you, and the person you’re dealing with, patterned at the conscious, subconscious, superconscious and unconscious level.
jung said that "the encounter with the shadow is the 'apprentice-piece' in  the individual's development...that with the anima is the 'masterpiece'".
there is no need to fear the unknown and when you release the fear and develop trust you will take your next step in spiritual growth.
it doesn't support you to skip over your lessons,or go around them.
jewelweed (impatiens aurea): contains a compound called "lawsone"  that treats uticaria.
blood-to-blood contact is the most direct route of hiv  transmission.
"review on acupuncture treatment of peripheral facial paralysis during the past decade."
pau d'arco and una de gato: (cat's claw) are also clinically used to stimulate immune function and may be consumed in tea form daily or liquid tincture either during acute illness or as a preventative measure.
garlic: is thought to help lower cholesterol and prevent the formation of blood clots that could lead to heart attacks.
he found that histologically, volume density of corresponding acupoints to blood vessels are elevated fourfold and that of nerves 1.4 times over that of surrounding tissues.
it is through this "liquid network" that scientist believe an acupuncture response is solicited.
the fact that there has to be a "day" for this disorder, saddens me, yet it is appropriate for everyone to be more aware and that is why, as a society, we do this.
emotional congestion, fear of the calendar or a belief in self-persecution or guilt are other issues that tend to come up very often with those who have allergies.
who  said females were the weaker sex?
this inflammation can then  obstruct the normal function of the nerves and vessels resulting in paralysis.
i seem to get a flux of bell's patients in the office in the spring and fall more than any other seasons.
the odds with  electrostim-acupuncture are much higher.
can cause nervousness and excitation, and overuse can lead to headaches, insomnia and heart palpitations.
(3) dr. bruce promeranz, working at the university of toronto, was very  involved in research done on acupuncture analgesia.
when these points are  stimulated, they release endorphins, our natural pain killers in the body.
according to metaphysical expert louise hay, allergies relate to the  fact that we deny our own power!
you can manipulate an infant's diet and do well in helping their  skin.
this led to the mapping of the meridian system or channels of energy within the body.
the prognosis for bell's palsy is generally very good.
it  will allow you to relate to your loved ones in a more authentic way so you can  strengthen your relationships.
but that's  the beauty in the depth of which you are searching.
my choice of protocol is electro-stimulation acupuncture.
it also influences a man's interactions with women and his attitudes toward them, and vice versa for females and the animus.
it is safe to get semen vaginal fluid or urine on unbroken skin.
(14)  hence, the standing wave pattern of a sick person would have a varied pattern  from that of a healthier person.
"efficacy of early treatment of bell's palsy with oral acyclovir and prednisolone."
jungian archetypes by wikipedia
the trickster is an enduring archetype that crosses many cultures and appears in a wide variety of popular media.
viruses infect the cells of living organisms and replicate (make new copies of themselves) within those cells.
however, an opposing trial found hsv as well as vzv to be non-significantly represented in affected groups (linder, bossart et al. 2005).
neurology 56(7): 830-836.
variations on this formula are important to change as the patient's  situation change.
no brave and valiant prince  or knight manages to win them, until a poor and simple peasant comes.
hugging or shaking hands -eating food prepared by someone with hiv -toilet seats global statistics can be found at:  http://www.avert.org/worldstats.htm know
don't try to stop the thoughts, just watch them.
your superconscious archetype relates to the qualities you aspire to  in life, and the “ideal” you seek in another person.
if you are on hiv medication or medications for associated symptoms or disorders, consider the information below: dong quai: taken for menopausal symptom control.
recently, a group of expert scientists reviewed 18 studies of anti-hiv drugs, which involved over 5,000 patients.
vitamin c is believed to be a natural antihistamine agent if used at high doses, around 3,000mg to 5,000mg a day.
the body  tells you to stay away from something for a good reason, such as toxic  overload.
this nerve disorder afflicts approximately  40,000 americans each year.
the theory also strives to explain the anomalous skin  resistance properties of acupuncture points as well as the apparent  interconnectivity between them.
in the book the invisible partners it is said that the key to  controlling one's anima (animus) is to recognize it when it manifests and  exercise our ability to discern the anima (animus) from reality.
patients on cholesterol lowering drugs should consider adding at least 200mg of coq-10 daily.
flaxseed also contains a group of chemicals called lignans  that may play a role in the prevention of cancer.
some of the topics covered include aromatherapy, herbal medicine, acupuncture, exercise, nutrition and lifestyle changes, energy medicine, crystals and homeopathy.
in western medicine, recent studies have shown that steroids are probably effective and that the drug acyclovir combined with prednisone is possibly effective in improving facial function.
do not chew or  swallow it, just hold it there.
int j clin acup 1991; 2(1),25-28.
the odds with electrostim-acupuncture are much higher.
the protein in cow's milk, specifically, is a frequent  offender, and for people with a genetic predisposition to allergy it may be a  hidden cause.
if you have a  conscious boychild frame of reference, you will be very enterprising.
bell's palsy (zhong feng) is considered a wind attack or external  wind stroke attack.
that's good because, in many ways, you  have begun to let go.
berlin: springer-verlag 1987; 296.
there are many  types of liquid crystals, from those which are most liquid, to those which are  most solid.
it's the next rung on the ladder on your spiritual path.
this is different from people who inherit the tough  underbelly of subconscious boychild, subconscious father or even the underlying  adult quality of subconscious mother.
acupuncturist heidi m. hawkins, l.ac explains allergies in tcm, which is an energetic medical system, meaning it affects a person's health via their energy systems.
dr. liu yk researched the location of acupoints present at sites of motor nerves.
supplements that can boost the immune function and reduce infection include vitamins, minerals and amino acid.
acupuncture is  definitely effective in treating pain; it works 70% to 80% of the time, far  greater than the placebo, which only has about 30% efficiency.
nih consensus development conference on  acupuncture, national institutes of health, bethesda md, nov 1997; 93-109.
these projections insulate and cripple individuals by forming an ever thicker fog of illusion between the ego and the real world.
*africa has 12 million aids orphans.
they are either dealing with work related stress, having  difficulties in their home or family life and are often the type a personality.
biomechanical theories
long term use of fish oil shelp prevent aging skin, menopausal  symptoms, promote better circulation, lower cholesterol, prevent blood clots,  reduce heart related risk, and the pain of arthritis.
studies have shown that when treatment reduces your viral load, it  also reduces your chance of getting an aids-related infection or dying.
what might a  group of rich, powerful, & politically connected corporations & their  executives do to avoid losing ten trillion dollars?
steroids  perpetuate allergy through their suppressive action.
the anima and animus are described by jung as elements of his theory of the collective unconscious, a domain of the unconscious that transcends the personal psyche.
we are always looking for experts to write informative, interesting articles on alternative health, healing, the metaphysical arts, massage therapy, color therapy, yoga therapy...
he also is known for entertaining people as a clown does.
glutamine is one of the most abundant amino acids in our bodies, found in  the gastrointestinal tract.
by removing specific foods from our diet, we have a better sense of what the culprit is and what it is that is triggering the reaction.
jung felt that dreams were more than about sex, they were about life.
boost your immune system with meditation fold your hands gently in your lap and close your eyes.
these free  radicals cause inflammation.
working with the archetypes to improve your relationships involves  several steps.
according to chinese theory, the  congenital autism might be traced to parents' kidney function problem, which  could be the mother's, or sometimes even the father's.
each archetype has a light side and a dark side.
they are highly creative, caring and  intuitive.
blood-to-blood contact is the most direct route of hiv transmission.
however, an opposing trial found hsv as well as vzv to be non-significantly  represented in affected groups (linder, bossart et al. 2005).
there are individual and universal  archetypes.
usually two weeks after surgery, scar therapy with acupuncture  needles can be done to help reduce the size as well as prevent keloid healing.
ways in which you can be infected with hiv -unprotected sexual intercourse with an infected person -sexual intercourse without a condom is risky, because the virus, which is present in an infected person's sexual fluids, can pass directly into the body of their partner.
this particular shift into alignment has a different quality of a  deeper, inward, soul search --deeper than you've gone ever before.
possible side effects include skin rash and the potential of hypoglycemia in  diabetic patients.
precautions against hiv infection can protect you from other  sexually transmitted diseases such as gonorrhea, syphilis, chlamydia, herpes,  yeast infections, amoebiasis, and hepatitis b. 10.
biochemistry and molecular biologyof fishes.
the low frequency, high intensity produced an  analgesic effect which was slower at the onset but longer in duration and also  having cumulative effects.
grogan, p. and g. gronseth  (2004).
the next step is to understand which archetype you, and the person  you’re dealing with, patterned at the conscious, subconscious,  superconscious and unconscious level.
becker's work on the large intestine and the pericardium meridians found  that the points along these channels showed significantly more electrical  conductivity than areas of skin with non-acupoints.
people who have an aversion to boychild for example, find that energy too aggressive for them.
at these points the skin is at the highest in electrical conductivity.
as a result the pattern of immune overresponsiveness is strengthened rather than weakened, meaning that more treatment will be required in the future.
thus for jung, '"the child is potential future"', with the archetype 'symbolizing the whole personality in its development from primordial unconsciousness to ego consciousness to self'.
you should not use this information to diagnose or treat a health problem or disease without consulting with a qualified healthcare provider.
wild oregano (origanum vulgare): aka wild marjoram, have at least seven different antihistaminic chemicals, therefore fights allergies as well as fungus and infection.
researchers are finding that many children with autism with alternative diets (casein and gluten free) and nutritional supplementation dramatically improve.
it  doesn't support you to skip over your lessons,or go around them.
an old woman or an old man or a grandfatherly figure can symbolize our own "higher self' or our own internal wisdom.
therefore the most unlikely candidate passes the trials and receives the reward.
vibrational medicine for the 21 century- richard  gerber m.d. eagle brook, ny, ny 2000 ï¿½  "acupuncture and chinese medicine" 4.
in many parts of the world, often because it is  illegal to possess them, injecting equipment or works are shared.
* knowledge you have  regarding your therapies.
in traditional chinese medical theory, the "kidney" is the congenital organ, while "spleen" is the essential postnatal organ function.
the zhang-popp model, shows us that the body is composed of sodium,  potassium and other electrically charged inorganic ions such as proteins and  dna which when accelerated will emit em radiation in accordance with  conventional physical theory.
this amino acid is compromised when there is surgery or the immune function is low.
what you are doing here is walking with a foot in two different worlds, gathering the strength from both dimensions.
also cooked whole- grain cereal, cold (all-bran,  total, bran flakes), whole-grain cereal, hot (oatmeal, wheatena) and  whole-wheat or 7-grain bread.
other studies (gao, chen, 1991) revealed that 80% of cases that were treated at  more than 2 months post-onset, and 83 percent of severe cases, were cured or  had excellent effect (6).
consider 3,000 - 6,000 mg of vitamin c in divided doses, per day.
use latex condom for vaginal and anal intercourse.
liquid crystals will also respond to changes in temperature, hydration, pressure and shear forces.
it was jung, a contemporary of edgar cayce's, who found convincing  evidence for a deep level to the unconscious mind.
they have little or no concept of themselves as  beings distinct from what society expects of them'.
working with the archetypes to improve your relationships involves several steps.
studies have shown that glutamine is one  of the best amino acid supplements after surgery.
acting in conjunction with enzymes, the compound speeds up the vital metabolic  process, providing the energy that the cells need to digest food, heal wounds,  maintain healthy muscles, and perform other bodily functions as a major  antioxidant in cardiac tissue and has protective effects on brain tissue.
more times than not, the patient that walks into my office is often, under great stress!
it was jung, a contemporary of edgar cayce's, who found convincing evidence for a deep level to the unconscious mind.
the common cold sore virus, herpes simplex virus (hsv), and other  herpes viruses are the likely cause of many cases of bell's palsy.
flaxseed oil: is derived from the seeds of the flax plant.
other treatments are usually aimed at protecting the eye from drying  at nighttime.
the ones that resemble solid crystal will have order and  will remain flexible and responsive.
the impaired spleen and stomach also cause an impaired immune system".
the life span of  the virus and the timing of testing for hsv may explain these conflicting  conclusions.
by mike kohloff www.55fix.com fact: autistic boys far outnumber autistic girls, by about 4 to 1.
patients on antibiotic therapy, diagnosed with thrush, diarrhea or constipation should consider taking probiotics 2 capsules 3 times daily with meals.
fennel (foeniculum vulgare): in my chinese herbal practice, fennel is used for indigestion, spasms in the digestive tract, as well as expelling phlegm from the lungs.
this herb is used often used in conjunction with other immune boosters such as reishi, maitake and shitake mushrooms.
doing this allows you to relax and forget about time.
vitamins a, c and the b vitamins increase the immune function and help with  wound healing.
in chinese medicine,  wind is said to be the carrier of 1,000 diseases.
don't use saliva as a  lubricant.
it is suggested by  hansen (2001) that the term "trickster" was probably first used in  this context by daniel g. brinton in 1885.
the chinese doctors said that, when the mother has "weak" kidney (this condition will not be detected or considered as a problem in terms of western medicine) during her pregnancy, her system is not absorbing vitamin b6 properly.
acupuncture remained relatively unheard of until 1974 when james reston, a  reporter for the new york times accompanied president nixon on a trip to china  where they witnessed an appendectomy and several demonstrations of serious  surgeries being performed with acupuncture as the only anesthetic using  acupuncture anesthesia.
if symptoms start to recur (itchy throat, phlegm, digestive upset, nasal congestion...)
you may ask yourself, how  do i live a more balanced life?
collagens as liquid crystals, british association for  the advancement of science, chemistry session:
the divine child archetype, is an important jungian archetype in  jungian psychology, first suggested by swiss psychologist, carl jung.
bell's palsy is the most common disease of the facial nerve.
tissue int., 42:167-180.
natural, accurate ways to test for food allergies and food sensitivities that are non-invasive.
according to liu (1995), when acupuncture was  initiated within three days postonset in 684 cases of facial nerve paralysis,  100 percent of the patients were cured or there was a marked improvement (5).
if it remains the same, you are most likely not allergic or sensitive to it.
all "sensitivities" and "intolerances" are included in this, a very broad definition of allergy.
depending on the surgery, herbal medicine can be used to help speed up the recovery time and help reduce scarring, as well.
find ways of managing the stress in your life.
birds frequently symbolize various  kinds of love or concern; water is often suggestive of the spirit itself.
by removing specific foods from our diet, we have a better sense of  what the culprit is and what it is that is triggering the reaction.
when we express their loving qualities, we become our best self for  ourselves and for others.
(3) dr. bruce promeranz, working at the university of toronto, was very involved in research done on acupuncture analgesia.
jewelweed is used as a natural remedy for poison ivy, poison oak, okra spines, stinging nettle and acne treatment.
traditional chinese medicine theory says, "brain is the ocean of  marrow; kidneys governs and produces the marrow."
acetyl-l-carnitine: is a molecule that occurs naturally in the brain, liver,  and kidney.
if you must take these powerful hormones, limit your use of them to two weeks.
ginger: is helpful in tea or herb form for controlling nausea and vomiting.
coenzyme q10 acts as an  antioxidant, much like vitamins c and e, helping to neutralize the  cell-damaging molecules known as free radicals.
jungians exploring the hero myth have  noted that 'over and over again one hears a tale describing the hero's  miraculous but humble birth', and have considered that '"it represents our  efforts to deal with the problem of growing up, aided by the illusion of an  eternal fiction"'.
you may find that you  fall asleep because you are so relaxed.
it is rich in omega-3 fatty acids, especially  alpha-linolenic acid, which appears to be beneficial for heart disease,  inflammatory bowel disease, arthritis, cholesterol and a variety of other  health conditions.
whips or knives that break the skin  should not be used on another person until disinfected with bleach or a  cleaning solution.
dr. watari published a report  in beijing, china in november 1987, based on his work.
you will understand what trips you up and where other people are coming from.
this electric current is called the current of injury, which is know to stimulate a healing response from the nearby cells.
excessive protein may irritate the immune system and keep it in a state of overreactivity.
antihistamines are commonly used for allergic rhinitis, allergic  conjunctivitis, contact dermatitis, urticaria (hives), angioedema and pruritus  (atopic dermatitis, insect bites).
doctors can take a sample of your blood and count the number of cd4 cells.
vol.1, ch.1, pp.1-23, 1991 16.
liquid crystals usually undergo rapid changes in phases or transitions  when exposed to electromagnetic fields.
they tend to have strong boundaries and seek to download a blueprint for every situation.
if it  remains the same, you are most likely not allergic or sensitive to it.
am jacup 1995;  23(3),205-210.
because a man's sensitivity must often be repressed, the anima is  one of the most significant autonomous complexes of all.
hold tight to both worlds.
patients on cholesterol lowering drugs should consider adding at least 200mg of  coq-10 daily.
based on this theory, the postnatal autistic condition is mostly caused by the child's impaired digestion system, which is the problem of the spleen (and/or the stomach) that prevents the body from absorbing nutrients such as vitamin b6 and other elements needed for brain development and maintenance.
in my experience the immune modulators work much better when combined together rather than used as singular treatments.
acupuncture is very  helpful during this time, since it helps to relieve anxiety, decrease pain  symptoms that maybe occurring and strengthening the immune function.
an antihistamine serves to reduce or eliminate the effects brought on by histamine, a chemical mediator released during allergic reactions.
echinacea is a widely used herbal remedy for treatment of upper respiratory tract infections.
knowing your unconscious archetype is also key in determining the quality of your relationships.
dermorphin is only found one  other place in nature - the poison of the amazonian poison dart frog!
this research will take a look at the  biochemical, biomechanical, as well as bio-electromagnetic theories that have  been developed in trying to explain the healing aspects of the ancient art of  acupuncture.
vibrational medicine for the 21 century- richard gerber m.d. eagle brook, ny, ny 2000 ï¿½ "acupuncture and chinese  medicine" 10.
many people in the past have been  infected with hiv by the use of blood transfusions and blood products which  were contaminated with the virus - in hospitals, for example.
the four universal archetypes or energies are known as our inner family  archetypes, because they are best described through the concepts of father,  mother, boychild and girlchild.
according to jung, the shadow, in being  instinctive and irrational, is prone to projection: turning a personal  inferiority into a perceived moral deficiency in someone else.
researchers are finding that many children with autism with alternative  diets (casein and gluten free) and nutritional supplementation dramatically  improve.
when they are threatened, they respond by either going aloof or by  smothering those around them with a spoiling mechanism.
usually two weeks after surgery, scar therapy with acupuncture needles can be done to help reduce the size as well as prevent keloid healing.
"acupuncture for bell's palsy."
the body responds with an allergic reaction as  a way of communicating to you that you have had too much of something.
some physicians may prescribe a corticosteroid drug to help reduce inflammation and an analgesic to relieve pain.
" these are all musts, that i always suggest a patient do in case of  allergies.
dermorphin is only found one other place in nature - the poison of the amazonian poison dart frog!
in human beings, free radicals are the natural by-products of many processes within and among cells.
"can western science provide a foundation for acupuncture"- beverly rubik, phd. alternative therapies magazine september 1995, vol.
biochemical theories most of the scientific studies of acupuncture have been centered on the analgesic aspects of pain relief.
kava: is used to treat anxiety.
continue at this pace and each day allow just alittle  more time for yourself to meditate.
the acupuncture needle activates the current of injury response resulting in a change in the em field, producing changes in the biological response.
if you have mother in the unconscious, you will tend to magnetize abandonment.
free radicals are created by exposure to  various environmental factors, cigarette and tobacco smoke, air pollution,  alcohol, drugs, radiation from televisions and computers, chemicals and a busy,  stressful life.
molecular self-assembly in  science and life, sept. 1, keele.
a new classification system and combined treatment method  for idiopathic facial nerve paralysis: report of 718 cases.
the stinging hairs lose their sting when the plant is cooked.
no aids cases have been traced to kissing, including deep (french) kissing.
this results in  vital energy (qi) and the blood to stagnate causing the inability of the facial  muscles to relax and therefore contract (wolfe 2003).
*young people (15-24 years old) account for half of all new hiv infections worldwide - around 6,000 become infected with hiv every day.
an anti-inflammatory, ginger has been used in ayurvedic and chinese medicine as an anti-inflammatory.
"lanostan", a compound found in reishi, appears to control  the release of transmitting chemicals in the body, thereby inhibiting the  release of histamine.
some herbs whose pollen can cause symptoms of hay fever have been used as a way to reduce symptoms of hay fever, which is the homeopathic theory of "like cures like".
it is 10  million times more potent and toxic than morphine (alan friedman, phd at  j&j).
it is not what you do; it is how you feel when you do it.
some herbs whose pollen can cause symptoms of hay fever have been used  as a way to reduce symptoms of hay fever, which is the homeopathic theory of  "like cures like".
natural levels of acetyl-l-carnitine diminish as we age.
claude darras and pierre de vernejoul injected  human studies with radioactive isotopes into acupuncture points.
consideration of alternative therapies in conjunction with conventional  medicine may offer additional opportunities for those living with hiv/aids to  be proactive in their treatments.
knowing the mechanics of the damage of autism points a big finger at the  cause.
within a week, you will see the river begin to slow down.
others have warned however of the dangers posed to the parents by 'the "archetype of the divine child"...an emotional pull toward imagining an extraordinary potential contained in the infant'.
chinese medicine has treated conditions such as bell's palsy for centuries.