kyere (click to enlarge)
we have also provided a way for people to contribute towards this project.
yes, i've studied with karma norbu at gyu-ne in dege.
at most she sends that much and sometimes it's less, around 5,000 to 6,000 yuan.
although there is one in düdtsi-til you can't make it in a  day—not if you're traveling by horse.
i'm interested in knowing about her practice and what she was like.
wf: i would like to know a bit more about trungpa rinpoche's mother, your grandmother.
we would need both tibetan and chinese medicine.
in particular, the 10th trungpa would do a hundred pairs of nyungne  each year at kyere gompa.
there he was the retreat lama at tsurphu monastery.
would you like us to say that funding is needed for a medical facility in kyere?
photo by gaye carlson wf: were the 10th and 11th trungpas the main rinpoches for kyere gompa?
though it's not entirely clear, kyere gompa was probably founded in the water female ox year of the tenth sixty year cycle [1673].
one lama in particular has been  practicing nyungne for about 15 years without a break.
it was his monastery.
there's a continuation of that even now; many people practice nyungne at kyere gompa.
wf: were all the buildings at kyere gompa destroyed during the cultural revolution?
he told him to stay in tibet and to take responsibility for  recognizing all the tulkus reborn in kham.
photo by bob and lindy king, summer 2005 wf: could you talk about the needs of the people in kyere now?
there's a continuation of that even now; many  people practice nyungne at kyere gompa.
according to jamgön kongtrül's biography of the 108 tertöns,  khyungdrak dorje was a contemporary of the 10th karmapa, the first mingyur
in this interview karma senge rinpoche talks a little bit about the history of kyere gompa, the needs of the people in the region, and his plans to build a medical clinic there.
wf: do people in kyere prefer to see a tibetan doctor or a western doctor?
they could only practice in secret, without anyone seeing anything.
no, he was never harmed because of tülku drubgyü, who was trungpa rinpoche's regent or representative at kyere monastary.
so, when i go back to kyere at the end of july, we'll get started on the work for the clinic.
in terms of ongoing support, the konchok foundation has agreed to accept  tax deductible donations earmarked for kyere.
one of the classes of important tertöns: the eight and sixteen lingpas, the 108 tertöns, and so on.go back 2 nyengyü.
there are a lot of tibetan doctors and these days many people are  sick.
there's no hospital or clinic.
one day he sent two monks named tsado and sönam tseten to surmang  with a message for his family.
both the 10th and the 11th trungpa spent about five to six months there  each year.
please visitweyching gompa for a look at the wonderful work that gaye has undertaken.
yes, my main lama was karma norbu, and i was also a student of khenpo karma tseten, those two.
in particular, the 10th trungpa would do a hundred pairs of nyungne each year at kyere gompa.
everyone in the lha-thok had to pay taxes to the king.
you also do ten circumambulations every day.
drupchen karma norbu ksr: karma norbu was a pupil of the 10th trungpa rinpoche, and he was there with the 11th trungpa rinpoche at tsawa gön when trungpa rinpoche did the rinchen terzod empowerment.
the 2nd day you don't eat or drink at all, and you don't  speak.
but it went through a period of decline.
photo by bob and  lindy king, summer 2005 wf: what is your main priority?
but it's not a part of the surmang  land.
they built a slightly larger temple than that of khyungdrak dorje and they created a retreat center for the nyengyü2.
it varied, but it was never less than 200 people.
she was  related to both trungpa's father and mother.
there was also a nun  named ani palmo who came with them and lived with them at kyere.
wf: i'm going to publish this interview about kyere gompa and everything  you've told me today on the chronicles website.
wf: is she raising money for the clinic?
they were tending their yak herd when we drove up in the late twilight.
yes, my main lama was karma norbu, and i was also a student of khenpo  karma tseten, those two.
photo by bob and lindy king, summer 2005 wf: what is your main priority?
people don't have cars.
he was like jetsun milerapa.
karma senge was in halifax for three weeks in june 2006 to attend the blossoming of the sun wedding festival and to work with the nalanda  translation committee.
before trungpa rinpoche left for india, he was staying at tsawa gang3.
wf: i understand that before trungpa rinpoche left tibet, he moved his family from düdtsi-til to kyere because he felt it would be safer for them there.
she gives at most about 24,000 yuan a year [there are about eight yuan to the us dollar].
then, on his way to india, the 16th karmapa rigpe dorje told karma  norbu not to go.
karseng rinpoche's brother, sonam wangdu, was present during the interview.
i do have a plan  for building a medical clinic.
so it seems khyungdrak dorje was one among these nine nüden  dorjes1.
many great practices were performed each year, including the drupchen of dorje phurba
it was the previous trungpa, the 10th trungpa who placed him as his regent.
would you like us to say that  funding is needed for a medical facility in kyere?
it varied, but it was  never less than 200 people.
there were five family members: his mother tungtso drölma,  his sister kalsang drölma (who is my mother), his brother damchö  tenphel rinpoche, and his younger sister tri-me palmo.
wf: was he your lama?
many people  can't reach a doctor and they die, particularly a lot of young children.
at most she sends that much  and sometimes it's less, around 5,000 to 6,000 yuan.
but it's not a part of the surmang land.
because of that they protected trungpa  rinpoche's mother and family very well.
and he's the one who recognized you as a tulku?
because of that, the  land, the monastery and everything now belongs to surmang.
does anyone know how long a khontirs is?
wf: i'm going to publish this interview about kyere gompa and everything you've told me today on the chronicles website.
the patron responsible for the revival and rebuilding of kyere gompa was  the 50th king of lha-thok, sonam gyurme.
no, düdtsi-til is in nangchen.
it was rebuilt about twenty five years ago,  but it still hasn't been built properly.
so the monastery has been around since then.
this income supported the practices that where done at kyere gompa.
and düdtsi-til is not part of lha-thok?
karma norbu was also the pupil of the second jamgön kongtrül, situ pema wangchub (the 11th situ), and chenzig chuju lodro.
we have also provided a way for people to contribute  towards this project.
please seehow to donate funds below.
they were  tending their yak herd when we drove up in the late twilight.
these funds are used for  the nunnery.
i think many of us would like to know how things are there and what your needs are.
he only wore a thin white cotton shawl or zen (outer monk's robe) and apart from that he was naked.
she's been to the area where the nunnery was built and stayed five days.
please visitweyching gompa for a look at the wonderful work that gaye  has undertaken.
there are four kingdoms of kham:  lha-thok, dege, ling, and nangchen.
lindy writes: it was very late as you can see, in open country with only one house nearby, most likely theirs.
they built a slightly larger temple than that of  khyungdrak dorje and they created a retreat center for the nyengyü2.
did she have a chance to spend a lot of her later years in meditation or retreat?
we are pleased to have the opportunity to work with the  translators.
after the nyungnes, the 10th trungpa would give everyone the nyungne  empowerment, instructions and teachings.
i built a nunnery with her donations and she continues to send money every year.
yes, there wasn't any danger.
because of that, the land, the monastery and everything now belongs to surmang.
nyungne, the fasting practice.
wf: were all the buildings at kyere gompa destroyed during the cultural  revolution?
wf: rinpoche, rather than asking you for further stories about trungpa  rinpoche today, i'd like to ask you to talk about kyere gompa (monastery).
yes, trungpa rinpoche has given us title mukpo.
yes, he was the principle one.
there were five family members: his mother tungtso drölma, his sister kalsang drölma (who is my mother), his brother damchö tenphel rinpoche, and his younger sister tri-me palmo.
trungpa rinpoche's youngest sister tri-me palmo and her son with  bob and lindy king this photo was taken in july 2005 during bob and  lindy's visit to kham.
karma senge rinpoche receives a small gift donated by chronicles readers.
so then there was no blame against damchö rinpoche.
one day he sent two monks named tsado and sönam tseten to surmang with a message for his family.
wf: well, thank you very much for this interview rinpoche.
[sonam is traveling with ksr as his attendant and is present during this interview.]
one of the classes of important tertöns: the eight and  sixteen lingpas, the 108 tertöns, and so on.go back 2 nyengyü.
please see interview with karma senge rinpoche for more information on kyere and ctr's family members who have lived there since 1959.
wf: was damchö rinpoche harmed in any way?
_____________________ tülku steven seagal in february of 1997, his holiness penor rinpoche recognized the hollywood  action star, steven seagal as an incarnation of khyungdrak dorje, the founder  of kyere gompa.
these were independent kingdoms, neither under tibet nor under china, and they all had equal status.
it would be greatly beneficial.
the trees aren't  very far away, but most people have to carry the wood on their backs or by yak.
konchok foundation update
the practice of the four armed mahakala, and then, after the 10th trungpa, there was the 11th trungpa and at the time, thetsasum gongdü, ("embodied realization of the three roots") was established.
it was rebuilt about twenty five years ago, but it still hasn't been built properly.
_____________________
the land where kyere gompa is located is part of lha-thok.
so there are different classes of tertons, the nine lingspas, and the  108 lingpas.
the patron responsible for the revival and rebuilding of kyere gompa was the 50th king of lha-thok, sonam gyurme.
we have also been in touch with  gaye carlson who has established a reliable way to send funds to karma senge in  kyere.
ksr: these days, i have full responsibility for everything at kyere gompa.
the king of lha-thok offered it to the 10th trungpa.
if we built a clinic there, it could  provide care for 2,000 to 3,000 people.
you also do ten  circumambulations every day.
there  were 100 families who lived near kyere gompa who were tied to the monastery.
we have also been in touch with gaye carlson who has established a reliable way to send funds to karma senge in kyere.
karma norbu was also the pupil of the second  jamgön kongtrül, situ pema wangchub (the 11th situ), and chenzig  chuju lodro.
there were 100 families who lived near kyere gompa who were tied to the monastery.
there are a lot of tibetan doctors and these days many people are sick.
i myself don't have the wealth, but i have a very strong intention to help people by building this medical clinic.
wf: if the people here and in the west in general wanted to send money to  you to help build this facility, how could they do that?
dorje, and the fifth dalai lama.
please see  interview with karma senge rinpoche for more information on kyere and ctr's  family members who have lived there since 1959.
go back 4 chinese medicine.
wf: in your own life at that time, did you have to hide the fact that you  were a rinpoche?
while he was here, we were delighted to present him with $465 (the $482 minus paypal processing charges) donated by our readers, a very small step toward a medical clinic in kyere.
i am the oldest, karma senge.
no, he was never harmed because of tülku drubgyü, who was  trungpa rinpoche's regent or representative at kyere monastary.
there is a  doctor in kyere, but he doesn't have any medical facilities.
if i could build this clinic, it's like the generosity of giving life, saving lives.
no. wf: i thought kyere was one of the surmang monasteries.
wf: if the people here and in the west in general wanted to send money to you to help build this facility, how could they do that?
it is possible to send money to the clinic.
he told him to stay in tibet and to take responsibility for recognizing all the tulkus reborn in kham.
each day there would be between 200 to  500 people practicing the nyungne with the 10th trunpga.
the land  where kyere gompa is located is part of lha-thok.
photo by bob and lindy king, summer 2005 lyndon comstock wrote in to say that her name is galde lhaso (phonetic spelling).
wf: rinpoche, rather than asking you for further stories about trungpa rinpoche today, i'd like to ask you to talk about kyere gompa (monastery).
i'd also like to ask about your family, trungpa rinpoche's familyyour brothers and sisters and other family members who are living in kyere and elsewhere in kham.
it seems that she did practice but there were no retreats during that  period of time.
kyere photo by gaye carlson wf: were the 10th and 11th trungpas the main rinpoches for kyere gompa?
she gives at most about 24,000 yuan a  year [there are about eight yuan to the us dollar].
i think many of us would like to know how things are there  and what your needs are.
if we built a clinic there, it could provide care for 2,000 to 3,000 people.
although karma senge rinpoche and mr. seagal have not met face to face, they had several video conferences during ksr's visit to north america last summer.
_____________________ kyere medical clinic fund
i understand that she was a practitioner and that she was a student of khenpo gangshar.
the first shambhala day
when he was four he started doing the nyengyü practice and he finished this year.
then, on his way to india, the 16th karmapa rigpe dorje told karma norbu not to go.
wf: you weren't discovered as a tulku until later?
wf: did rinpoche's mother have to hide her identity?
he was one of  the nüden dorje tertöns of two categories of eight and 16 tertön  lingpas.
thinking that, i acquired this land and have made plans to build a clinic there.
did she have a chance to spend a lot of her later years in meditation  or retreat?
i think that would be really helpful.
the second  day, you don't need to drink, just practice all day.
the trees aren't very far away, but most people have to carry the wood on their backs or by yak.
while he was here, we were delighted to present him  with $465 (the $482 minus paypal processing charges) donated by our readers, a  very small step toward a medical clinic in kyere.
there's no electricity, so we need wood for fuel.
karma senge stands on the medical clinic site.
so, damchö rinpoche was marked as a ngapda because he was a lama, but the rest of the family was not.
the following conversation with karma senge (karseng) rinpoche was interpreted by peter roberts, transcribed by jessie litven (who has since become an apprentice with the nalanda translation committee), and reviewed by larry mermelstein.
damchö rinpoche was marked as a ngapda by the chinese.
i was recognized when i was about 13 or 14.
an audio valentine from chögyam trungpa necessary angel: an interview with henry schaeffer by bill scheffel
i didn't have the title of a rinpoche.
so instead of paying the  king, these families paid the monastery.
photo by bob and lindy king, summer 2005 lyndon comstock  wrote in to say that her name is galde lhaso (phonetic spelling).
here is aletter from penor rinpoche regarding mr. seagal.
karseng rinpoche with his wife (does anyone know her name?)
it seems that she did practice but there were no retreats during that period of time.
should we send the money we raise to her?
the following conversation with karma senge (karseng) rinpoche was  interpreted by peter roberts, transcribed by jessie litven (who has since  become an apprentice with the nalanda translation committee), and reviewed by  larry mermelstein.
these were independent kingdoms, neither  under tibet nor under china, and they all had equal status.
it's three stories high.
wf: if a clinic were to be built, should it be a modern medical clinic or  would people prefer to have traditional tibetan medicine?
though it's not entirely clear, kyere gompa  was probably founded in the water female ox year of the tenth sixty year cycle  [1673].
wf: what about the clinic in düdtsi-til?
there are a lot of people with severe headaches, other illnesses, etc.
trungpa rinpoche's youngest sister tri-me palmo and her son with bob and lindy king this photo was taken in july 2005 during bob and lindy's visit to kham.
if you go by horse, it takes one day.
vajrakilaya] according to ratna  lingpa, ratna lingpa's vajrakilaya, which took a month to complete, rolpa dorje's terma called deshek tobdü, the concentrated power  of the tathagathas, which also lasted for one month, the khandro tsok gar, the ganachakra dance of the dakinis, which  took ten days.
there is a 500 khontris piece of land.
karma senge: the founder of kyere gompa was khyungdrak dorje.
some people have taken some chinese medicine.
because of that they protected trungpa rinpoche's mother and family very well.
i built a nunnery with her donations and  she continues to send money every year.
he was one of the nüden dorje tertöns of two categories of eight and 16 tertön lingpas.
a small gift to ksr from chronicles readers.
each day there would be between 200 to 500 people practicing the nyungne with the 10th trunpga.
but surmang is the whole area?
each one lasts two days, so he did 100 nyungnes in 200 days.
i think this  will really help us to begin to connect more fully to the mukpo family and the  sangha in kyere.
tülku drubgyü took on the blame himself and spent 22 years in prison.
wf: in your own life at that time, did you have to hide the fact that you were a rinpoche?
yes, it wasn't dangerous because all of the lha-thok people had such great faith in trungpa rinpoche.
some  people have taken some chinese medicine.
wf: what facilities are needed?
i understand that she was a practitioner and that she was a  student of khenpo gangshar.
according to jamgön kongtrül's biography of the 108 tertöns, khyungdrak dorje was a contemporary of the 10th karmapa, the first mingyur dorje, and the fifth dalai lama.
but your family was safe?
the 10th trungpa was the main rinpoche.
she was related to both trungpa's father and mother.
wf: so that was just in the last 100 years?
i'm interested in knowing about her practice and  what she was like.
wf: would it be proper to refer to you as the mukpos?
before trungpa rinpoche left for india, he was staying at tsawa  gang3.
yes, it wasn't dangerous because all of the lha-thok people had such  great faith in trungpa rinpoche.
first, drupchen karma norbu.
the 2nd day you don't eat or drink at all, and you don't speak.
so there are different classes of tertons, the nine lingspas, and the 108 lingpas.
_____________________ ksr: that would be fine.
wf: i understand that there are ten siblings altogether, including yourself  and sonam?
a ngapda is a title and it means that you're a criminal.
yes, everything was destroyed.
one lama in particular has been practicing nyungne for about 15 years without a break.
he drank only a drop of water and a  bit of food each day -- about that much (ksr holds up his thumb and index  fingers half an inch apart.)
when he was  four he started doing the nyengyü practice and he finished this year.
wf: i would like to know a bit more about trungpa rinpoche's mother, your  grandmother.
every year kyere gompa received  something like 100,000 yuan from these families [us $12,500 at current exchange  rates].
all of the things in the monastery, ritual objects, statues, and so on were distributed by the chinese to the lha-thok familiesmaybe given to the poor families.
she's been to the area where the  nunnery was built and stayed five days.
in this interview karma senge rinpoche talks a little bit about the history of  kyere gompa, the needs of the people in the region, and his plans to build a  medical clinic there.
the practice of the four armed mahakala, and then, after the 10th trungpa, there was the 11th trungpa and at the  time, thetsasum gongdü, ("embodied realization of the three  roots") was established.
wf: if a clinic were to be built, should it be a modern medical clinic or would people prefer to have traditional tibetan medicine?
there's a woman in san francisco named gaye carlson.
reciting anything was against the chinese law.
when our mother died, deche was about one year old.
it's an expansive area and it's centrally located.
the message was that they should move to kyere.
wf: what about medical facilities?
damchö rinpoche was marked as a  ngapda by the chinese.
he only wore a thin white cotton shawl or zen  (outer monk's robe) and apart from that he was naked.
vajrakilaya] according to ratna lingpa, ratna lingpa's vajrakilaya, which took a month to complete, rolpa dorje's terma called deshek tobdü, the concentrated power of the tathagathas, which also lasted for one month, the khandro tsok gar, the ganachakra dance of the dakinis, which took ten days.
he and kalu rinpoche were companions in retreat.
although karma senge rinpoche and mr. seagal have not met face to face, they  had several video conferences during ksr's visit to north america last summer.
i think this will really help us to begin to connect more fully to the mukpo family and the sangha in kyere.
kyere, a remote area about 25 air miles south of düdtsi-til, has  been home to trungpa rinpoche's immediate family since he left tibet in 1959.
if i could build this clinic, it's like the generosity of  giving life, saving lives.
so, when i go back to kyere at the end of july,  we'll get started on the work for the clinic.
the people in the community said that even though the chinese knew that  she was trungpa rinpoche's mother, she hadn't committed any crime, so she was  not to blame.
a condensed version of this interview is available on thentc site.
drupchen karma norbu ksr: karma norbu was a pupil of the 10th trungpa rinpoche, and he was there  with the 11th trungpa rinpoche at tsawa gön when trungpa rinpoche did the  rinchen terzod empowerment.
although there is one in düdtsi-til you can't make it in a daynot if you're traveling by horse.
after the interview, peter roberts commented that when  karseng rinpoche refers to chinese medicine, he's talking aboutmodern medicine or what we would callwestern medicine, rather traditional  chinese medicine.go back 5 khontris.
i do have a plan for building a medical clinic.
so the king of  lha-thok, sonam gyurme, revived kyere gompa for his lama the 10th trungpa  rinpoche, chökyi nyinche.
wf: could you list who those 10 siblings are?
well, she sends money over.
address [audio 9:15] tour the great eastern sun exhibit in halifax [video 8:36]
the chronicles of ctr design: kikker.com
the chinese destroyed everything.
wf: how did he keep damchö rinpoche safe?
and the youngest is dechen, who is about 14 or 15 years old and is a monk at kyere gompa.
wf: who recognized you as a tulku?
trungpa the main tulku for kyere gompa?
there  are a lot of people with severe headaches, other illnesses, etc.
there is a doctor in kyere, but he doesn't have any medical facilities.
many people can't reach a doctor and they die, particularly a lot of young children.
wf: did you travel away from kyere and düdtsi-til at some point to  study?
[video: 7:23] celebrating the twenty fifth
[sonam is traveling with ksr as his  attendant and is present during this interview.]
wf: did you travel away from kyere and düdtsi-til at some point to study?
_____________________ khyungdrak dorje's tülku steven seagal in february of 1997, his holiness penor rinpoche recognized the hollywood action star, steven seagal as an incarnation of khyungdrak dorje, the founder of kyere gompa.
each one lasts two days, so he did 100  nyungnes in 200 days.
so the king of lha-thok, sonam gyurme, revived kyere gompa for his lama the 10th trungpa rinpoche, chökyi nyinche.
wf: i understand that there are ten siblings altogether, including yourself and sonam?
tülku drubgyü took on the blame himself and spent 22 years  in prison.
on retreat in charlemont: silent footage from 1972, by vivian kurz the gradual path of raising buddhist children: a conversation with thinley norbu rinpoche from the vajradhatu sun, 1992 inner chronicles: face-to-face in halifax work sex money: seminar three, talk three: klesha activity [audio 46:28] ocean of dharma: a shambhala sun feature on chögyam trungpa by barry boyce tribute to arbie thalacker chronicles highlights 2011 chronicles holiday sampler next photograph by marvin moore halifax, 10 july 2005
it's an  expansive area and it's centrally located.
wf: was the family safe in kyere?
photo by marvin moore enter the dragon touch and go now screening at culture unplugged film festival love, relationship, and illusion:
karseng rinpoche at weyching ani gompa (nunnery) in kyere.
surmang hearing lineage tradition, a special chakrasamvara  teaching of surmang, originally handed down by tilopa.go back 3 tsawa gang is where lady könchok, sakyong mipham's mother is from.
yes, it's a tibetan doctor.
both the 10th and the 11th trungpa spent about five to six months there each year.
karma senge was in halifax for three weeks in june 2006 to attend the blossoming of the sun wedding festival and to work with the nalanda translation committee.
kyere, a remote area about 25 air miles south of düdtsi-til, has been home to trungpa rinpoche's immediate family since he left tibet in 1959.
the journey east, a clip from iron bird
hopefully the chronicles could encourage donations  that will help support the work that you are doing and needs of the people in  kyere.
it was the  previous trungpa, the 10th trungpa who placed him as his regent.
there's a doctor,  but no medicine.
interview with karma senge about kyere gompa photograph by marvin moore halifax, 10 july 2005
and the youngest is dechen, who is about 14 or 15 years old and is a monk  at kyere gompa.
surmang hearing lineage tradition, a special chakrasamvara teaching of surmang, originally handed down by tilopa.go back 3 tsawa gang is where lady könchok, sakyong mipham's mother is from.
he spent four years in  retreat at dorje khyung dzong in düdtsi-til, then six years in palpu  retreat.
if you need to go to a clinic, you have  to walk or go by horse.
the two of them revived kyere monastery together.
hopefully the chronicles could encourage donations that will help support the work that you are doing and needs of the people in kyere.
there's a doctor, but no medicine.
there he was the  retreat lama at tsurphu monastery.
yes, it is a surmang monastery.
after the interview, peter roberts commented that when karseng rinpoche refers to chinese medicine, he's talking aboutmodern medicine or what we would callwestern medicine, rather traditional chinese medicine.go back 5 khontris.
all of the  things in the monastery, ritual objects, statues, and so on were distributed by  the chinese to the lha-thok families—maybe given to the poor families.
everyone knew that she was trungpa rinpoche's mother.
the whole monastery was destroyed and all the ruins were given away.
there was also a nun named ani palmo who came with them and lived with them at kyere.
he drank only a drop of water and a bit of food each day -- about that much (ksr holds up his thumb and index fingers half an inch apart.)
under me is a brother, ati rinpoche, who is a tulku of drunglam gompa, a big karma  kamtsang monastery in dege, a sister, sonam chokyi, who is married and lives near jekundo, another sister, gyume chodron, who lives with her family near kyere gompa, a sister, tseyang lhamo, who also lives with her family near kyere gompa, a brother, who is married and lives with his family near kyere gompa, another brother, jangchub chopel, who lives at kyere gompa with my father  and is not married, nor is he a monk, a sister, tinle yongtsam, who is 30 years old and has a family, sonam wangdu, is a monk at kyere gompa.
wf: is that a tibetan doctor?
every year kyere gompa received something like 100,000 yuan from these families [us $12,500 at current exchange rates].
wf: i'll talk to gaye.
he and kalu rinpoche were companions in  retreat.
the most important thing is the medical clinic.
lindy writes: it was very late as you can see,  in open country with only one house nearby, most likely theirs.
there's a main temple, which is probably about 24-25 khontris wide.5 wf: has it been rebuilt since the chinese tore it down?
i myself don't  have the wealth, but i have a very strong intention to help people by building  this medical clinic.
but it went through a  period of decline.
thinking that, i acquired this land and have made  plans to build a clinic there.
the second day, you don't need to drink, just practice all day.
so it seems khyungdrak dorje was one among these nine nüden dorjes1.
there are four kingdoms of kham: lha-thok, dege, ling, and nangchen.
yes, about 100 years.
there hasn't been any western medicine except for chinese medicine.
he spent four years in retreat at dorje khyung dzong in düdtsi-til, then six years in palpu retreat.
there's a woman in san  francisco named gaye carlson.
wf: i understand that before trungpa rinpoche left tibet, he moved his  family from düdtsi-til to kyere because he felt it would be safer for them  there.
we are pleased to have the opportunity to work with the translators.
after that, he went to u (central tibet) and lhasa.
the people in the community said that even though the chinese knew that she was trungpa rinpoche's mother, she hadn't committed any crime, so she was not to blame.
wf: so you had to do sadhana practice in private, quietly?
in terms of ongoing support, the konchok foundation has agreed to accept tax deductible donations earmarked for kyere.
under me is a brother, ati rinpoche, who is a tulku of drunglam gompa, a big karma kamtsang monastery in dege, a sister, sonam chokyi, who is married and lives near jekundo, another sister, gyume chodron, who lives with her family near kyere gompa, a sister, tseyang lhamo, who also lives with her family near kyere gompa, a brother, who is married and lives with his family near kyere gompa, another brother, jangchub chopel, who lives at kyere gompa with my father and is not married, nor is he a monk, a sister, tinle yongtsam, who is 30 years old and has a family, sonam wangdu, is a monk at kyere gompa.
so, damchö rinpoche was marked as a ngapda because he was a lama, but the  rest of the family was not.
after the nyungnes, the 10th trungpa would give everyone the nyungne empowerment, instructions and teachings.
these funds are used for the nunnery.
i'd  also like to ask about your family, trungpa rinpoche's family—your  brothers and sisters and other family members who are living in kyere and  elsewhere in kham.
the first day you don't eat after noon, but you can drink.
so instead of paying the king, these families paid the monastery.
if you need to go to a clinic, you have to walk or go by horse.