patient-centered medicine is based on the knowledge that it's not enough just to focus on the scientific facts.
its reliance on the metaphysics of the i ching and theories of creation  such as wang discusses below clearly make it a religion.
dealing with pain in a constructive way that allows the individual to maintain  a sflihm is one goal of a science of religion.
what if you took the people who did t'ai chi but made the same amount of money and did the same work, and who were the same age and sex?
it would be great if these graduates could then be incorporated into a cpasr where they would continue to receive loving support and possibly become part of an international effort to master cancer and all other diseases and human traumas.
even a young man cannot beat me in a t'ai chi martial arts competition.
" m: "as i understand it, the native healers -- shamans -- had experienced suffering, illness, and pain themselves, and they shared with others what they had learned in those experiences.
p. 325: l: "...the internal healing processes seem to have a  tremendously difficult time with metastatic cancer.
p. 317: m: "...i read the recent meditations of arthur w. frank, a  medical sociologist in canada, who was stricken at age thirty-nine by a heart  attack and a year later by cancer.
and like every other pain, it has opportunity in it as  well as suffering.
chinese massage is designed to release the flow of chi." response: chi, or not chi, massage is a powerful tool to help anyone live a better life.
it's a spot just below your navel.
for example, i'm not a visual person.
but that's not science of our standards today.
if a child gets hurt, what does the mother do?
if you feel deep fear with the diagnosis of cancer, which is absolutely natural, one of the things you can learn is that you may feel the fear, and it may be an aspect of you, but it is not your core self.
after i began to  learn about chinese medicine, i discovered that for these cases, chinese  medicine is more effective.
so their knowledge of anatomy never developed as ours did in the west.
in chinese medicine, 'disease' is defined as the struggle between  human capability to resist disease and the pathogenic factors.
in a wise community one's feelings must not only be known to the individual, they must be shared and shared with the community.
or, why others have  successfully resisted this same germ.
but what i want to emphasize is that the application of chinese medicine is fundamentally different from what is done in the west.
drawing on plutchik's work in which he postulates eight feeling states with varying degrees of intensity and numerous combinations (see chapter xiii)
if you can learn through physical and psychological exercises to control that energy, sooner or later you can learn to move it outside your body.
you have a chance to step back from it and say, 'ah, yes, i have that feeling, but that is not me.
you know, when people first get a diagnosis of cancer, they often run out and  buy a hundred dollars worth of books about what you need to do in order to live  and what you mustn't do or you won't live.
research like this when joined together with everything else provides the raw data to put together to develop a congruent understanding of everything.
the ideas they have about how the mind/body works are only the speculations of the shaman enlightened by thousands of years of practice by brilliant, curious individuals.
and sometimes people heal emotionally, and they don't  heal physically." response:
for instance, if you pick up a stone, the top is yang,  or 'male,' and the bottom is yin.
and taking pain as part of life and learning how to fully  incorporate it into people's lives is the challenge of a science of religion.
i was fifteen when i  first became ill -- and after several operations, i don't have most of my  intestine anymore.
in between there is a space that is neither the index finger nor the middle finger.
and provides another yardstick for  evaluating chinese culture.
" p. 275: m: "were you skeptical at first about chinese traditional medicine?" xie: "yes, i was, in part because i had begun my medical studies in western medicine, and both the theory and practice of chinese medicine are absolutely different from what i had learned of western medicine.
to the degree that a science of religion has value, it has just as much value for chinese as americans and every other people.
it's an  unfortunate fact that human beings learn through pain and suffering.
but at the same time, for more than seventy years, he has taught and practiced t'ai chi ch'uan.
'close your eyes, and with each breath in, just begin to move closer inside, to  the part of yourself that knows what's true for you, and just listen.
what about the notion that if you become kinder,  more thoughtful, or more relaxed, you can change your body positively?" "in chinese medicine, the idea is that your 'will' governs your chi,  so that what you decide to do governs the energy in your body.
p. 359: r: "there's no way to be alive and avoid pain and loss and suffering.
you know, china is a wonderful  place to ask questions about mind and body.
i hated it in school.
everybody knows what's true.
simply caring for people  like that in a very intense way for a week, and providing a safe place for them  to get together and share with each other the experience of cancer creates  experientially transformative effects."
and we hope that you will find  something of benefit to you." m: "and by benefit, you mean..." l: "by benefit we mean something that they will feel is useful.
when a person becomes a patient and learns to talk disease talk, her body is spoken of as a place that is elsewhere, a 'site' where the disease is happening,' frank writes.
wchap.20b (10/4/98) chapter xx.
but klaus decided to do an experiment in which half the babies in the nursery would be treated as usual, and the other half would be touched for fifteen minutes every few hours.
" "you see, that's more than just a joke.
when a disease germ enters the body it causes  an upset in the balance of how the body works.
p. 332: l: "there's a very interesting scientific study by lydia
you  talked about how difficult it was to understand the distinction between curing  and healing.
" m: "yes, of course.
we start looking at what's wrong, what's the pathology, what's the disease.
people have the natural capacity to affirm and embrace life in the most difficult of circumstances, and to help each other despite their circumstances.'
you're tense, and you haven't been touched in a caring way for a long time.
" m: "as i understand it, the native healers -- shamans -- had  experienced suffering, illness, and pain themselves, and they shared with  others what they had learned in those experiences."
the way one lives would be a primary consideration; however, great energy would also be focused on learning everything possible about how to extend this as long as possible.
" e: "i think the entire chinese culture is based on the notion that there is a correct way to live, and that how you live ultimately influences your health.
but it's not a religion, it's a philosophy.
the doctor might  recommend herbs or massage or acupuncture or diet or t'ai chi or chi gong  simply in order that the patient might go from a disease-free state to even  greater health.
but research on the matter would be  necessary to clarify the matter.
there's a lot of lightness and a lot of joy.
m: "that's very discouraging to most of us, who don't have the discipline to do it."
i think the greatest thing you can ever give someone else is your attention -- not with judgment, but just listening.
but if we want to deal with health,  and we're looking only at the chemistry or the emotional state, we have an  imperfect glimpse.
and whatever beneficial effects this provides healthwise, it is a  key aspect of a wise person.
there was no way to separate mind from body, because what we call the mind was part of the body.
" e: "yes, the chinese medical system is based primarily on taoism, which claims that it's not just your physical well-being that determines your health, but also your behavior toward others.
" m: ""did you learn t'ai chi while you were in medical  school?" ma: "yes, when i was twenty, i began to study t'ai chi from a master.
every movement of t'ai chi is designed for defense.
and such open-minded testing is essential.
today he runs an entire department trained in both  disciplines and consults on cases where western medicine has met its limits.
even if you cut the stone in half, you still have a top and a bottom.
p. 331: "as to science, we've gleaned nothing about that because  we're not doing the science here.
it's just a useful package of effective stress-reduction practices such as gently stretching exercises, deep-breathing exercise, meditation, and progressive deep relaxation."
when that happens, the process is tremendously  destructive.
" m: "and you could feel some of these emotions in the patients with  ulcers simply by taking the pulse?" xie: "partially, yes." response: if one is to tie emotion to disease, it is then essential to have  a testable theory of emotion.
to attempt to  live in a blissful cocoon would probably prevent one from becoming a wise  person.
what they  really meant was, they don't know what was right.
frank's work should be brought into the domain to be utilized by a science of religion.
remen believes that the proper response to serious disease is  anger.
in addition  external reality is always under study.
healing is a  process we're all involved in all the time.
of  course the hope would be that there truly is something in chinese medicine  beyond the placebo effect.
some people don't  understand it and want to do away with it.
what we imagine, we experience, and what we imagine affects us.
" r: "it's interesting that many of the people here this week have  survived a terrible childhood.
" e: "i think you're right, but chinese patients don't understand all  the theory either.
ten years later, however, we began to use the external chi gong treatment."
that has always been the highest goal of living in all the taoist and confucian traditions.
how do you make people back home open to the  possibility that the way you think alters you physically to the point that it  can affect disease?
but we should be cautious about external chi gong.
and, it is also critical to understand that anything of merit that  comes out of illness, pain, suffering could undoubtedly have been achieved in  other less painful ways under better circumstances.
at the experiential  level we take eight people from very varied backgrounds who share in common  only that they believe that if they came here for a week, they would benefit  from it.
a certain  percent of the people in my practice are doctors who are burned out.
but if we go back to the  quality-of-life side, experientially, we all know that to sit on how we're  feeling, and to not be able to be who we are in the world, is intrinsically  less satisfying than being who we are.
" r: "perhaps positive thinking is not the same as positive emotions.
but, on the other hand, i've looked at cancer therapies in japan, where the expression of emotion is not necessarily a positive thing.
how do they make that choice?" xie: "many chinese patients in fact know when to choose western  medicine and when to choose chinese medicine.
therefore, many treatments are designed to motivate this capability -- once it is motivated, some diseases can be cured easily.
they will often say things like 'this is  the most important thing that happened to me since i had the diagnosis,' or  'this is one of the most important weeks in my life.'
look, this is the index finger, and this next one is the middle finger.
he was chief of the intensive care nursery, where all the babies were these tiny little people you could hold in your hand.
on the practical level it may give us treatments for certain diseases -- herbs, or acupuncture therapy for stroke patients, for example.
imagery is the way the mind and body talk to each other.
that doesn't feel real  to me.
the question is, how do you translate that into western scientific terms?
to do science, you have to watch something, see a pattern, and then experiment with it.
they'll say, 'i can't do  this,' or, 'i'm not good at this.'
i think we should study it, but at the same time not exaggerate its effects of overestimate its power.
p. 334: l: "...when you put the feeling out there and express it,  there's a release, and the relaxation that goes with that release, and a sense  of relief.
but after i tried the chinese medicine and herbs, i found that they worked, so i began to change my mind.
they've  seen so much suffering and pain they can't fix, they can't feel anymore.
it would seem to lead  immediately to circular reasoning.
they see it as intervening in an energy system.
these are the people who come to commonweal and think  they 'can't do imagery' because they can't visualize.
we all want somebody to take away our  pain.
practicing its slow movements is like  taking a rest, except that there is movement in t'ai chi.
china and the western world should join  together.
but it took me thirty years  to learn how to use it."
" m: "but you know, if i had come to you in your life as a medical  doctor, and you had told me i had cancer, i think the greatest gift you could  have given me would have been to cure me.
but in the fifties, chairman mao ordered many western-trained doctors to study traditional chinese medicine.
driving down a  highway at night, just looking at the fog -- moment by moment, life was  precious.
" xie: "yes, we use it very often here.
being here  opens up opportunities for people to be listened to, and heard, and validated.
and so we try to touch people with the tenderness of a mother touching a child,  because what a mother is saying to her child with that touch is 'live.'
a woman patient with cardiorespiratory disease came to him for  treatment, and he thought it was impolite to massage the breast of a woman, so  he did an external chi gong treatment at her breast.
he put down the camera, and he started to cry.
to open the body through surgery or autopsy would be to deface the  gift of one's ancestors.
this is a unique opportunity to advance understanding of how the universe really is.
what they really meant was, they don't know what was right.
the ways include other matters.
that was a wonderful moment of  great healing for everybody because it made clear that there really is only one  group.
and, that view is not only internally consistent, but all parts of it are congruent with external reality as it is known.
[it is believed that if] you can  figure out where your center is and how to concentrate your mind, you're  healthy, and once you lose that, you get sick." response: how could one test such a hypothesis?
m: "but isn't the best thing a doctor can do for people who are ill  is fix them?
to us, this approach is a combination of religion and medicine.
the opposite of love is not hate, but indifference.
healing is what you bring to the encounter with cancer and with  mainstream medicine.
" response: i take goethe's point to be supportive of the idea of an  "i" as a multi-faceted construct.
the way one lives  would be a primary consideration; however, great energy would also be focused  on learning everything possible about how to extend this as long as possible.
" ma: "as a student who studied bacteria, i would easily be infected by disease germs if i didn't keep myself healthy.
it's not what we do that makes a difference, but what  we allow to happen.
p. 354: r: "healing may not be so much about getting better as about  letting go of everything that isn't you -- all of the expectations, all of the  beliefs -- and becoming who you are.
and like every other pain, it has opportunity in it as well as suffering.
p. 317: m: "...i read the recent meditations of arthur w. frank, a medical sociologist in canada, who was stricken at age thirty-nine by a heart attack and a year later by cancer.
learning who we really are is  the essence of the process for becoming a wise person.
the patient was very happy  and said she felt much better, and she was no longer suffering from discomfort  of the heart.
people talk about how love and  cheerfulness and optimism are positive emotions, and sadness, fear, and anger  are negative emotions, and negative emotions are dangerous.
" e: "the temple is symmetric, and it's supposed to fit into nature  perfectly." m: "their architecture is based on philosophy and geometry, but is  their medicine based on anything more than philosophy?
their whole life would then be devoted to the achievement of a sflihm.
the native healer will try to come into contact with the part of the self that the person is not aware of, and to elicit it, so that there's some possibility of consciousness and growth leading to a new perspective that might help with the illness.
at the will of the body:
i should say,  by the way, that my brother's an oncologist, and that my father's life was  saved by a great oncologist.
his pulse belongs to the 'liver pulse,' which has something to do with emotions.
a science of religion is about understanding the universe and  dealing with it as it is, not as we would want it to be.
health, medicine and a science of religion
i think i would fairly say that without the doctors and nurses who helped me, i would have died.
the chinese, however, would not be interested in this question because to them, health was not limited just to one's physical health, but also included one's moral health.
you know, once a year we invite  professionals who work with cancer to come to commonweal for a little r &  r. while they're here, they often talk with each other about the things they  really don't understand, even though they've spent years working in this field.
and they not only taught you about diet and exercise, but  also guided you psychologically and spiritually to become a better person,  because that would shape your health.
" response: except for the "energy medicine" the core approach here  seems right on, and should be the model for a wise community.
" m: "you mean when we worry, we are imagining?" r: "absolutely.
you feel as though you're looking at the world through plate glass.
the foregoing interpretation is important because we are used to  hearing these things discussed in the same way prayer is discussed in which  there is a strong component of magic and unquestioning faith.
" response: dr. remen provides many important insights in her above  discussion that not only apply to health but to the whole of life.
through pressing needles into specific points in the body, through using herbs, and through massaging pressure points, chinese doctors, it is said, control the flow of chi."
the classical chinese physician received a fee only as long as the patient remained in good health.
but to them, the way you lived your life and your physical health  were inseparable.
one cannot say enough good things about nurturing touch in all its forms.
at the level of the individual help needs to be focused toward exploring options, drawing on group support, and living the best life one can regardless of how long it is.
p. 274: m: "dr. xie, you were trained first in western medicine, and you then took up the study of traditional chinese medicine.
(p. 343) p. 320: remen: "'one of the greatest gifts you can give another person  is your attention.'
whatever you decide to do, the way you live your life,  your convictions -- these will change your physical being and the organs in  your body."
" m: "so if i feel deep and unrelieved fear over the diagnosis of  cancer, that's who i am, and i need to express that fear.
it always seemed to me to be pretentious, with references to the greeks and  that sort of thing.
and this is the kind of orientation that is needed when one considers all aspects of living and their own life.
they're not stuck anymore.
to us this is merely a hypothesis.
and i will say to them, 'i've looked for ten years, and if i thought there was a cure for cancer among the adjunctive, complementary approaches, i'd be the first to say so.
but with two carpenters, an  electrician, and a plumber, in three years we have remodeled the whole thing.
" "another function is to help heal chronic diseases.
that's why i learned t'ai chi --  to keep fit.
as a result there are gems of infinite value in their approach, even though that approach itself is as off-base as was western blood-letting, non-sterile surgery, and other early practices.
you were born with your hands.
" m: "and 'i care about you.'
so expressing your feelings  is part of that movement inward, toward a core self where one can find some  peace.
however, our observations indicate that some effects cannot be totally explained by psychology."
not a better you, but a realer you.
they call this the 'dan tian point.'
drawing on plutchik's work in which he postulates eight feeling states  with varying degrees of intensity and numerous combinations (see chapter xiii)
and these two points should always be close to our consciousness.
so if we  want to know whether chinese medicine tells us anything about health that  western science can't, we have to scientifically test what the chinese have  done just as we would test any new drug before we brought it onto the  market.
" m: "what do you mean, 'who we are'?" l: "well, there's a wonderful line from goethe that goes something  like, 'whoever said that we have only two beings wrestling within us  underestimated the number by a considerable amount.'
it always seemed to me to be pretentious, with references to the greeks and that sort of thing.
many people tell us that  they experience being touched with indifference when they go to hospitals.
but  at the same time, for more than seventy years, he has taught and practiced t'ai  chi ch'uan.
i think that's what healing is -- evoking  the will to live.
r: "...it's our woundedness that allows us to trust each other.
p. 300: wang: "the chinese believe that before there was a heaven and  an earth there was a chaos.
for  example, i'm not a visual person.
my experience of you is not what i see
i have enormous respect for biomedicine, and i see  it as the great contribution of modern science to the treatment of disease.
it takes the fear away.
that's why olympic athletes often have imagery coaches to help them to imagine their optimal performances and thus improve their actual performance." response: dr. remen provides many important insights in her above discussion that not only apply to health but to the whole of life.
its reliance on the metaphysics of the i ching and theories of creation such as wang discusses below clearly make it a religion.
but if i don't  express it, although i feel it, i'm pretending to be something other than what  i am.
so i was very skeptical in the beginning.
" p. 347: m: "let's talk about some of those techniques.
it's from the place where we all connect, our common humanity."
the taoists believe that desiring too much or too little will harm you physically as well as mentally, emotionally, and morally.
the other is the issue of how beneficial is the treatment in curing the condition?
you're tense, and you haven't been touched in a caring way for a long  time.
" e: "i think the entire chinese culture is based on the notion that  there is a correct way to live, and that how you live ultimately influences  your health.
p. 290: eisenberg: "in chinese theory, once you have learned to relax, to focus on your breathing, and to let go of all the thoughts, then you can actually find a spot in your body where your chi, your vital energy, begins.
p. 292: m: "later david takes me to a doctor who was moving his hands in circles around a young man's skull, never touching a hair."
e: "yes, we invented the notion that 'biology' and 'physics' and 'psychology' and 'psychiatry' are separate.
p. 309: m: "is that ideal [of traditional chinese medicine] still  alive today?
awarded a macarthur prize fellowship in 1983, dr. lerner is a fellow of the fetzer institute and a policy fellow of the institute of health policy studies at the school of medicine, university of california, san francisco.
look, this is the  index finger, and this next one is the middle finger.
e: "the ultimate objective of taoism was immortality.
somebody has symptoms, or we find an abnormal laboratory test.
but the ability to do this requires a  foundation of sufficient joy and pleasure so that learning is possible.
in chinese medicine, 'disease' is defined as the struggle between human capability to resist disease and the pathogenic factors.
healing is a process we're all involved in all the time.
but if we want to deal with health, and we're looking only at the chemistry or the emotional state, we have an imperfect glimpse.
i bought a little falling-down cabin on  the top of a mountain.
since then, we have been studying external chi gong treatment.
when i'm asked the question, 'what do you think, doc?
to satisfy my colleagues back home, you need more than just a few anecdotal case histories.
even if somebody didn't have physical symptoms, the doctor would look at him or her and say, 'you could become healthier if you did the following.'
after i began to learn about chinese medicine, i discovered that for these cases, chinese medicine is more effective.
and they not only taught you about diet and exercise, but also guided you psychologically and spiritually to become a better person, because that would shape your health.
one of them is the social, psychological,  religious dimension in which medical treatment is prescribed for individuals  within the context of a bigger system.
m: "that's very discouraging to most of us, who don't have the  discipline to do it."
in addition external reality is always under study.
if you feel deep fear with the  diagnosis of cancer, which is absolutely natural, one of the things you can  learn is that you may feel the fear, and it may be an aspect of you, but it is  not your core self.
p. 274: m: "dr. xie, you were trained first in western medicine, and  you then took up the study of traditional chinese medicine.
and we discovered  that the babies that were touched survived better.
however, because chinese medicine is not based on testable hypotheses with double blind tests all of its conclusions are suspect.
" e: "the whole chinese medical system is based on the notion that the way you relate to other people, the way you think, and your emotions govern your health and illness -- what kind of life you'll have and what kind of death you'll have." m: "why do the chinese grasp that in a way we don't?
" "my sense is that creativity and healing are very close to each other, in some way that i really could not say too much more about.
in mainstream medicine you find a series of modalities that are demonstrated to be absolutely curative for some cancers.
chinese doctors search for hidden forces that are out of balance.
throwing out all the erroneous, destructive, misleading ideas that get in our way and prevent us from growing is necessary.
i kept hearing my father's voice saying, 'that's a perfectly good light fixture, why are you throwing it away?'
it would seem to lead immediately to circular reasoning.
the ideas they have about how the  mind/body works are only the speculations of the shaman enlightened by  thousands of years of practice by brilliant, curious individuals.
probably all of these things are the product of  a cultural myth.
today physicians in chinese hospitals spend most of their time with the practical applications of chinese medicine: the herbs, the needles, and the pressure points.
and when people speak  their truth in this way, it's highly personal, but it will be true for  everybody.
so if we want to know whether chinese medicine tells us anything about health that western science can't, we have to scientifically test what the chinese have done just as we would test any new drug before we brought it onto the market.
and at this point in time, society's focus needs to be on achieving a more complete understanding of cancer in all its aspects so that a cure is produced that we understand.
m: "were you skeptical of it at first?" lu: "i didn't believe it at that time because i had been educated systematically in medicine.
they never split the two.
anger is a demand for change.
well, cancer  is an enormous pain.
p. 351: m: "zorba the greek said, 'life is trouble.
p. 297: e: "part of the difficulty in looking at chinese medicine is  that it's like going to medical school within the confines of a theological  seminary.
the chinese tell  me that these contemplative practices help their symptoms, but i wonder.
you need to follow hundreds of people over time and use  statistics to be certain you're not observing just a chance event.
what we imagine, we  experience, and what we imagine affects us.
that's why i learned t'ai chi -- to keep fit.
she said to him, 'wait a minute, what happened for you?'
how do you make people back home open to the possibility that the way you think alters you physically to the point that it can affect disease?
my experience of you is not what i see but what i hear or sense about you.
the process of really coming to grips with all those different aspects of our personalities and beginning to integrate them and bring them forth is a life-long task.
"if you put the focus on health instead of disease, you can begin to understand the taoist approach.
p. 341: m: "how would you sum up what that experience [not knowing if he would live or die of a heart condition] was for you?" l: "i experienced that life was incredibly precious to me, and that the things that mattered most to me were my son and my wife.
their task, as they describe  it, is to restore unseen harmonies.
i bought a little falling-down cabin on the top of a mountain.
however, we also  accept our ability to produce change and the goal to understand what change is  desirable and what is not.
there are thousands of doctors all  over this country who make the same claim and millions of patients who would  claim to have been healed this way.
but despite what happens here, they leave with the same cancer they had when they came.
" m: "is there anything in western science comparable to chi?
" p. 355: r: "i think that's too low a goal.
and not everything is fixable.
we  talk to him about two cases of patients diagnosed as having ulcers.
p. 288: m: "you said it would take thirty years for me to discover my  own chi.
through  pressing needles into specific points in the body, through using herbs, and  through massaging pressure points, chinese doctors, it is said, control the  flow of chi."
however, we can only do this within the context of a supportive environment of others who share this goal.
it had more integrity.
at first  most people don't believe they can write poetry.
m: "every good marriage is trial and error over many years.
this  disease, in showing her deep vulnerability, has given her the gift of  humanness."
but his chi excess doesn't mean there is too much chi in his body, just that the flow of chi stops in that particular area and is unable to travel farther.
and forty percent of people are like me in not being primarily visual.
you need to give one group the right medicine and another group sugar pills and see if the medicine worked and the sugar ills didn't.
"i was thinking about what was for me the absolute high point of this retreat, and i think it is in the many moments in which people show themselves in the beauty of their own humanity.
the patient is still a whole person, and to help him or her get better, ideally we would deal with all of these aspects -- the balance of a persons's life."
they will often say things like 'this is the most important thing that happened to me since i had the diagnosis,' or 'this is one of the most important weeks in my life.'
so to receive loving touch,  supportive, caring touch as well as the kind of touch that works out all the  kinks in the muscles and just relaxes you -- well, again, it's
you can see  other people, but you feel as if you can't touch them or be with them, because  you are different.
'illness is brutal, cruel, lonely, terrifying.
e: "he trained in traditional chinese medicine for six years in shanghai, and he also studied western medicine.
you may have noticed how much laughter there is here.
and let yourself know something that is true for you about illness or life or death or love, or whatever.
the patient was very happy and said she felt much better, and she was no longer suffering from discomfort of the heart.
but the second patient  is different.
p. 286: "...ma yueh liang, [is] one of the greatest living practitioners of t'ai chi ch'uan, a grand master.
so their knowledge of anatomy never developed as ours  did in the west.
one woman said, 'sometimes when i go for my chemotherapy, they touch me as if they don't know anybody's inside this body.'
china and the western world should join together.
and if i'm your doctor, and i feel numb, you may experience me as indifferent.
i'd  walk into these rooms, and i would feel whether or not the person was angry.
" e: "chinese medicine is scientific up to a point.
when external chi gong proved to be as effective with the woman having cardiorespiratory diseases as regular chi gong that should have been a red flag.
" r: "it's an absolute mystery -- which is very frustrating for those  of us who would like to be in control.
but it took me thirty years to learn how to use it."
in the other realm of effective cures, the results are less  certain.
your mind governs your energy.
but they're  searching for something, and they seem to know that the mind has something to  do with health.
as a physician, i was taught that you touch people only to diagnose them, and  if you touch them in any other way, even in a comforting way, they may  misunderstand.
p. 337: l: "if i were to hazard a guess, i would bet that if the research is ever done, it will turn out that sitting on unexpressed emotions is not a good thing.
chinese sages taught that treating someone who is already ill is like beginning to dig a well after you have become thirsty.
but with two carpenters, an electrician, and a plumber, in three years we have remodeled the whole thing.
nobody knows the answer to that yet, because that hasn't been adequately studied." response:
but at another level it also seems to offer a different view of health -- that health is not just an absence of illness, it is a way of living.
he was trained in western science and ran the clinical laboratories in a prominent shanghai hospital.
" m: "but what about your own experience?
you talked about how difficult it was to understand the distinction between curing and healing.
that's an incredibly simplistic and unfortunate attitude.
since we don't understand the role of dreams, and therefore  nightmares, it is very difficult to know what to make of them.
however, somewhere in all these ideas there may be a gem that is of crucial importance if we are to understand why people get sick and how best to keep them well.
p. 309: m: "is that ideal [of traditional chinese medicine] still alive today?
to us this is merely  a hypothesis.
p. 310: m: "my goals in life, my intention."
we make very clear from the beginning that this program is focused not on curing, but on healing.
p. 297: e: "part of the difficulty in looking at chinese medicine is that it's like going to medical school within the confines of a theological seminary.
this one is dr. lu, the director of the chi gong clinic."
so some of the religious objectives are no longer discussed as much."
you feel separated from the whole human race.
and that's what most people who come here talk about.
i should say, by the way, that my brother's an oncologist, and that my father's life was saved by a great oncologist.
we don't fix the people who come here, we simply offer them an experience which allows them to explore who they are as human beings and get in touch with strengths they didn't know they had, and to see themselves and their lives differently.
he was thinking about his wife and his children and how he loved them." response: connecting to our common humanity is the first challenge of every human being.
" response: for a science of religion it would be particularly important to distinguish between disease and illness, pain and suffering, as well as between curing and healing.
if you do  gentle stretches, or progressive deep relaxation, or if you sit quietly and  look inward, that's the equivalent of yoga.
the other terms have the  same general idea.
i want to live, and i want to live as long as i  can.
the other is the issue of how beneficial  is the treatment in curing the condition?
you can't have  one without the other.
their primary value is probably in providing a cohesive force in society.
one of them is the social, psychological, religious dimension in which medical treatment is prescribed for individuals within the context of a bigger system.
we talk to him about two cases of patients diagnosed as having ulcers.
the first patient showed a lack of chi, while the second has excessive chi because of chi blockage in his liver.
you concentrate on the ball of energy and learn to move it.
but one of the most fundamental distinctions we start with  is the distinction between curing and healing.
the taoists believe  that desiring too much or too little will harm you physically as well as  mentally, emotionally, and morally.
since we don't understand the role of dreams, and therefore nightmares, it is very difficult to know what to make of them.
since chinese medicine does not have such a  theory it seems clear that any hypothesis about a relationship between emotion  and disease will turn out to be closer to astrology than medicine; i.e., any  value of the process is totally unrelated to the explanation used.
'educare,' the root of 'education,' means 'leading forth, wholeness, or integrity.'
in the first realm chinese medicine like all folk medicine does an  excellent job.
[it is believed that if] you can figure out where your center is and how to concentrate your mind, you're healthy, and once you lose that, you get sick." response: how could one test such a hypothesis?
a lot of his images are from his daily experiences,
he  put down the camera, and he started to cry.
the above would be completely congruent with a science of  religion since i would define "true health" as a sflihm (a  sustainable feeling that one's life has meaning).
it was in that recovery that they found their mission of helping  others.
also bringing in dr. candace pert's work on peptides  as the agents of emotion ( moyers' p. 177) would be relevant.
he served as special  consultant to the office of technology assessment of the u.s. congress for the  1991 reportunconventional cancer treatments."
" ma: "when i said it would take thirty years, i was referring to the  highest stage of t'ai chi.
p. 294: m: "why did you change to that?" lu: "there was an old doctor named zhao guang who was doing massage treatments.
i had that experience that so many people come here with, that the  whole world has shifted and that they're seeing the world in a new way.
but the two sides have to come together because the chinese doctors are not trained in science.
but his specialty is training patients with every disease you can think of to use their minds to affect their conditions -- and also using this own mind, or chi, to affect their condition." response: without systematic, consistent, extensive study, it is almost impossible to assess the power of suggestion on a human being.
p. 299: m: "somewhere along the way, we divided mind and body: they  became opposites.
doing progressive  deep relaxation, tensing the muscles and than sequentially relaxing them,  focusing on the breathing, and breathing deeply, watching the breathing,  meditation -- those things tend to have a deeply relaxing effect.
although the chinese didn't separate mind from body they also didn't separate mind/body from superstition.
i think what she means is  that the process of being deeply wounded in this way has made her able to open  herself to the love that is around her and that was always around her.
see chapter iv for more on this topic.
let me speak to the experience first, because that's what we work with here.
and, as we said, there's an important distinction between curing, which is the  scientific, effort to change what's happening in the body, and healing, which  is the human experience of the effort to recover.
and how do we use our modern scientific tools to test this  possibility?" m: "i admire the chinese way of seeing us as whole human beings, but  i have to say that the logic behind chinese medicine is so complex as to make  it inaccessible to americans.
p. 358: m: "we know of many angry people who live and many cheerful people who die.
a student is a learner on a regular basis, but a disciple is committed to the practice and teaching of t'ai chi.
but if the word gets in the way, it should be thrown out and replaced by some other package of ways of relaxing the mind and the body.
and this is the kind of orientation that is needed when one  considers all aspects of living and their own life.
p. 302: wang: "the purpose of our living is not to become famous or to  make a lot of money, or to struggle so hard to get something that eventually we  lose our lives.
we don't look at  our medical system that way.
however, our observations indicate that some effects  cannot be totally explained by psychology."
in human society, psychology cannot be eliminated from any branch of learning, so in this sense we say that chi gong is also under the influence of psychology.
it's not just diet or exercise, it's also a spiritual or emotional  balance that comes from the way you treat other people and the way you treat  yourself.
but i have not seen a cure for cancer there.'
such study must include the  areas moyers explores with david felten (brain and immune systems),  robert ader  (conditioning immunity), and margaret kemeny (emotion and the immune system).
" e: "i think in the last fifty years we have begun to accept the notion that thinking in harmful ways -- being chronically anxious or depressed, for example -- may lead to illness or increase your risk of heart disease.
'when a person becomes a patient  and learns to talk disease talk, her body is spoken of as a place that is  elsewhere, a 'site' where the disease is happening,' frank writes.
plus, "new age" attitudes take ideas that have  practically no science to support them and treat them as of higher value than  procedures with years of study and supporting empirical data behind them.
and yet imagery, like healing, is part of everybody's birthright as a human being.
it's the first way a mother and child connect with each other.
it had more  integrity.
sticking needles into the body is obviously  a physical intervention to westerners, but not to the chinese.
acceptance is what allows change.
it's not just diet or exercise, it's also a spiritual or emotional balance that comes from the way you treat other people and the way you treat yourself.
i can trust another person only if i can sense that they, too, have woundedness, have pain, have fear.
treating it has the goal of returning the body to its "normal" state.
and you need to be able to sort them out, because only the ones that are  true, only the ones that can help you to live, are the ones you want to  keep.
there is nothing romantic about illness,' remen answers, and even as she speaks, i remember that this woman has had major surgery seven times.
he tried to cover it over, but one of the participants wouldn't let him.
all of these distinctions can be listed under the difference between biomedicine, which is the scientific effort to cure, and what's called biopsychosocial medicine, or patient-centered medicine.
if they have discovered new aspects of body functioning and healing outside the field of understanding of western medicine that would be very exciting.
one is that it makes you live longer.
when more becomes known everything necessary is altered to maintain that congruency.
we have nerves and arteries and all of that.
" e: "the simplest answer is that they didn't do any anatomical dissections.
one of the illnesses of  the 'new age' is the view, 'i caused my cancer, i should be able to reverse  it.'
but the two will have to come together and look at hundreds of patients, randomly assigned to different groups, in order to figure out whether these things work predictably, and, if so, how."
now that does not mean there  aren't case histories of spontaneous remissions.
some people would see that as a shotgun  wedding.
we're supposed to produce something perfect or professional.
this pretty well puts the thing in proper perspective.
'close your eyes, and with each breath in, just begin to move closer inside, to the part of yourself that knows what's true for you, and just listen.
in mainstream medicine you find a series of modalities that are  demonstrated to be absolutely curative for some cancers.
we don't touch each other in this culture, and touching is often misunderstood or even sexualized.
you need to give one group the right  medicine and another group sugar pills and see if the medicine worked and the  sugar ills didn't.
they've noticed patterns and used them, and that's empirical  science.
they'll say, 'i can't do this,' or, 'i'm not good at this.'
of course you want to live as long as you can, but don't you want to live well?
" m: "it's true that extending life is not always the highest goal, but there is this will to live.
p. 266: "...massage is not just a technique for loosening the muscles or relaxing stiff joints.
a person who practices for just three months in order to get rid of an illness is like a person who has only graduated from high school and doesn't go on any further in education.
this disease, in showing her deep vulnerability, has given her the gift of humanness."
psychological factors are especially important in the  self-imposed exercises.
chinese medicine stresses the human capability to resist disease.
but we did a special clinical study, and external chi gong treatment proved to be effective, particularly with cardiovascular diseases, digestive diseases, and neurosis.
we need to bring that old wisdom together with mainstream medicine so that mainstream medicine can become humane and compassionate in the application of its technologies.
hypnosis shows  us that these effects are far greater than most persons realize.
almost without exception,  the shamans were people who had gone through a life-threatening illness and  recovered.
xie says he became profoundly interested and chose to make his life work the  integration of both systems.
p. 337: l: "if i were to hazard a guess, i would bet that if the  research is ever done, it will turn out that sitting on unexpressed emotions is  not a good thing.
the  different kinds of imagery and its proper use -- recognition of how it can  produce negative effects as well as positive effects -- is one.
" p. 346: r: "i'm not sure i have gotten rid of my loneliness.
" p. 326: m: "if i hear you, you're suggesting that there is a difference between the persons's experience of illness and the physicians's attention to that illness.
if they have discovered new aspects of body  functioning and healing outside the field of understanding of western medicine  that would be very exciting.
p. 334: l: "people will sit around the room together and say, 'it's crazy that i had to get cancer to learn this stuff.'
however, it seems to me being active in the world and dealing with it has adequate opportunities to confront pain, overcome it, and utilize it in rising to a higher level of understanding and living.
but what i want to emphasize is that the  application of chinese medicine is fundamentally different from what is done in  the west.
take these two patients here for example: we gave them totally different chinese medicines for their ulcers, and in both cases the medicine worked well.
but we help people reclaim this healing, creative part of themselves by having them write poetry.
the disease is defined biomedically.
our  major task then was to train patients to do chi gong themselves.
performing external chi gong therapy on this patient, using his energy to help  redirect the flow of the patient's energy.
" l: "i see what you're saying.
i asked him, 'how many times have you had surgery?'" "he said, 'oh, ninety-three times!'" "'ninety-three times!'" "'yes,,' he responded, 'but only three of them actually  happened.'
only death is no trouble.'
" m: "yet you're very emphatic that this kind of healing is not to be  pursued at the expense of traditional medicine, and that traditional medicine  has done some wonderful things in curing disease and extending life and  relieving pain, so you don't give it up for this healing process.
but the two sides have to come together because the chinese doctors  are not trained in science.
lu: "our training was for six years, and we studied both western and chinese traditional medicine.
plus, it was in fact the agent of cohesion in china over thousands of years which as i point out is the essential element provided by a religion.
in chinese medicine, the medical masters, the people who understood material things, were also the spiritual leaders.
and  the laughter and the joy come mixed in with very intense emotions of pain and  sorrow and anger.
p. 335: m: "i prefer our times to...ancient days, but i do think there is a kind of wisdom we have lost in our information and technology." l: "the essence of much that we do here is to recover that wisdom and put it in a very commonsense, modern language that is completely accessible to people in our time, so that it can be integrated with first-rate mainstream medicine, which i would not give up for a quarter of a second.
but certainly pain for the sake of pain cannot be allowed.
now again,  that's only one study, so i don't want to make too much of it.
whatever you decide to do, the way you live your life, your convictions -- these will change your physical being and the organs in your body."
but in the west, with our less contemplative tradition, it is often  only when we become ill that we begin this journey of inner exploration that we  might not have undertaken under any other circumstances.
to satisfy my  colleagues back home, you need more than just a few anecdotal case histories.
(p. 323) p. 324: l: "...everyone with cancer who wants to live, hopes to be cured in some sense.
write it down as simply as you can, and then we'll read it to each other.'
but in order to live, i need to re-own my own voice and its  validity.
in chinese medicine,  the medical masters, the people who understood material things, were also the  spiritual leaders.
" response: sounds like it would be accurate to say what all the experts are  saying, we don't yet understand the underlying factors and mechanisms that  cause cancer and are involved in its cure.
we kept throwing away more and more things, and  with everything we threw away, the building became more whole.
" r: "yes, i do -- and they're very much the same feelings that many of the people who come here feel.
and certainly that will to live is tied into nurturing touch and  caring concern from other people we care about.
p. 330: l: "that's right.
p. 293: m: "how many years did you train in order to do this advanced chi gong?
we all have many, many  facets that are jostling about inside us.
p. 348: m: "...the poetry writing is about expressing uniqueness?" r: "
practicing its slow movements is like taking a rest, except that there is movement in t'ai chi.
" l: "yes, and i think that's very unfortunate.
the doctor's job was not simply to cure you when you were ill,  but to help you reach your maximum health by helping you lead a more balanced  life, hereby increasing your vital energy, or chi."
in the other realm of effective cures, the results are less certain.
but as a scientific approach is applied we should expect to see some vitally important contributions being made.
it was so bad that when michael lerner came to see it, he said, 'oh, rachel, you bought this?'
p. 314: e: [as a result of studying chinese medicine], "i have...a  deeper appreciation of the possibility that maybe the endpoint of life is not  how long you live, but the way you live.
" response: except for the "energy medicine" the core approach here seems right on, and should be the model for a wise community.
two thousand  years ago, one of the most famous taoists, mencius, said, 'where the will goes,  the chi will follow.'
chi,  the chinese name for this energy, flows along systematic meridians, which do  not coincide with any known physiologic structures.
for example, it took a long time for me to learn about chi.
therefore, many treatments are  designed to motivate this capability -- once it is motivated, some diseases can  be cured easily.
however, at some level the idea seems  self-evident as long as we recognize that current understanding does not allow  anyone to be centered enough to resist all germs and threats to their health,  and perhaps this state could never be achieved.
you have to understand that anything positive that emerges out of a real illness experience is not a function or characteristic of the nature of illness but of human nature.
r: "no, it just gave me another set of problems to live with.
however, we also accept our ability to produce change and the goal to understand what change is desirable and what is not.
" e: "the simplest answer is that they didn't do any anatomical  dissections.
however, at some level the idea seems self-evident as long as we recognize that current understanding does not allow anyone to be centered enough to resist all germs and threats to their health, and perhaps this state could never be achieved.
since chinese medicine does not have such a theory it seems clear that any hypothesis about a relationship between emotion and disease will turn out to be closer to astrology than medicine; i.e., any value of the process is totally unrelated to the explanation used.
but research on the matter would be necessary to clarify the matter.
curing is what allopathic  mainstream medicine has to offer, when it can, and that's what the physician  brings to you.
i've just invited a lot of people into it, to be there with me.
but expressing the feeling or emotion that's going on for
in one case, the woman told me that she came away from that experience with an awareness that the purpose of life was not about being a doctor or a mother or creative or smart or rich, but to grow in wisdom and to learn to love better.
so to avoid those curative potentials is a very great mistake.
in all those places  you find some combination of ways of quieting the mind, and of going inward.
" m: "china is quite a laboratory."
but as a scientific approach is applied we should expect to see some vitally  important contributions being made.
when that happens, the process is tremendously destructive.
i think i would fairly say that without the doctors and  nurses who helped me, i would have died.
" l: "they help quiet both the mind and the body.
and these are the kind of things that must be tested to see first if the data supports the conclusions and second if it does, why it does.
temoshek, who looked at patients with malignant melanoma, which is a serious  cancer.
that's the most fundamental thing they've found.
" m: "what do you mean, 'who we are'?" l: "well, there's a wonderful line from goethe that goes something like, 'whoever said that we have only two beings wrestling within us underestimated the number by a considerable amount.'
" m: ""did you learn t'ai chi while you were in medical school?" ma: "yes, when i was twenty, i began to study t'ai chi from a master.
p. 334: l: "...when you put the feeling out there and express it, there's a release, and the relaxation that goes with that release, and a sense of relief.
and always we must remember that in spite of our current learning, we have barely begun to understand the way things really are.
this would seem to be a useful technique as long as one doesn't confuse technique with reality.
sharing our true self with others who respond with appreciation and sharing of their own humanness is one of the keys to open the door of a sflihm.
of course, we didn't touch these  infants because we'd get germs on them.
how do they make that choice?" xie: "many chinese patients in fact know when to choose western medicine and when to choose chinese medicine.
a lot of people with cancer have been touched only with medical intent for a very long time.
but most of all, they were teachers.
its aim would be to unite science and religion so that everyone would be working within the same world-view.
what about the notion that if you become kinder, more thoughtful, or more relaxed, you can change your body positively?" "in chinese medicine, the idea is that your 'will' governs your chi, so that what you decide to do governs the energy in your body.
any health effects come out of the  benefits of practicing techniques to reduce stress, the feeling of intimacy  resulting from being joined with others, and the placebo effect.
many health-promotion programs use it as a basic framework because it's  an efficient way of accomplishing stress reduction.
p. 306: m: "is there anything here that might be useful to your patients back in boston?
p. 328: l: "there's nothing magical about yoga.
habitual anger caused his ulcer, little by little."
and the goal of a wise community is to find ways that lead to healing in all areas.
that's a real challenge.
it would be great if these graduates could then be incorporated  into a cpasr where they would continue to receive loving support and possibly  become part of an international effort to master cancer and all other diseases  and human traumas.
there are other exercises you could do as well.
we live in an age where cancer is essentially an epidemic illness, for reasons that have nothing to do with individual personalities.
simply caring for people like that in a very intense way for a week, and providing a safe place for them to get together and share with each other the experience of cancer creates experientially transformative effects.
its aim  would be to unite science and religion so that everyone would be working within  the same world-view.
we don't know how to do that with  everybody.
it is a limiting interpretation that ends up masking the true "way it is."
but it suggests  that expressing one's feelings and saying how one really is in the world may  have a stimulating effect.
that's why olympic athletes often have imagery coaches to help them to imagine  their optimal performances and thus improve their actual performance.
" p. 275: m: "were you skeptical at first about chinese traditional  medicine?" xie: "yes, i was, in part because i had begun my medical studies in  western medicine, and both the theory and practice of chinese medicine are  absolutely different from what i had learned of western medicine.
and this would seem to be an obvious direction that western medicine should adopt.
but in order to live, i need to trust enough to love and be touched by other people."
chris, the woman you were talking to, said that cancer has ultimately healed her sense of loneliness.
p. 282: e: "in the chinese culture....
p. 330: m: "what have you learned about the inner mechanism of healing  from using meditation, and yoga, and touch?
the patient is still a whole person, and to help him or her get  better, ideally we would deal with all of these aspects -- the balance of a  persons's life."
when you come home from work at the end of the day, if you calm down  and practice t'ai chi, you will be refreshed, and your tiredness will  disappear.
some people don't understand it and want to do away with it.
chinese classics written twenty-four centuries ago say that 'in the old days, people lived to be one hundred, but now' -- that is 400 b.c.e. -- 'they are not in control of their spirits, their emotions, or their thoughts.
and since that's the basis of their culture, it spills over into their medicine.
and forty percent of people are like me in not  being primarily visual.
" response: very likely, and in the case of japan i would guess that the japanese culture in the form of meditation and similar practices provides a way to deal with these emotions in a relatively healthy way.
but we help people reclaim this healing, creative part  of themselves by having them write poetry.
dr. xie (pronounced  'shee-yeah')
p. 329: m: "what do you think the ancients knew about the body that brought yoga into use as a healing instrument?
and what they had was their bodies, the natural world around them, diet, herbs,  caring for people, imagery, and belief in god.
our essential message to people is that if you come here, we will provide you with a variety of opportunities to explore.
they have tried herbs, needles, and pressure points and have observed that in some instances those things helped individuals with particular illnesses.
p. 330: m: "what have you learned about the inner mechanism of healing from using meditation, and yoga, and touch?
but i think what has to happen for people at some point in their lives, and what certainly is happening for all the people who were here, is that many of the things we've done in order to survive are different from the things we need to do in order to live and live well.
p. 312: m: "how did they come up with this particular geography of the body we saw them using in the hospital?
but you know, extending life isn't the highest goal, because people can live miserable lives for long, long periods of time.
" "this idea grows directly out of the basic theory of the body -- that  the body is made up of channels through which the energy flows, and that this  energy has to be in balance.
medical treatment within a science of religion must nest  within this total system.
reflections on  illness describes how frank and his wife came to see that their struggle was  not against cancer but with the nature of life, to preserve the wonder of it  against the shambles illness would make of it.
on the practical level it may give us treatments for certain  diseases -- herbs, or acupuncture therapy for stroke patients, for example.
there's a lot that is  mysterious here.
their whole life would then be devoted to the achievement of  a sflihm.
chi is governed by the way you live and think.
and provides another yardstick for evaluating chinese culture.
we live in an  age where cancer is essentially an epidemic illness, for reasons that have  nothing to do with individual personalities.
once a man came to my office who had the same disease  i have.
illness begins where medicine leaves off, where i recognize that what is happening to my body is not some set of measures.
if you do gentle stretches, or progressive deep relaxation, or if you sit quietly and look inward, that's the equivalent of yoga.
what happens to my body happens to my life...tome.
some of your beliefs may help you to live, and some of them may not.
(p. 343) p. 320: remen: "'one of the greatest gifts you can give another person is your attention.'
if you studied both groups for ten years, would you find that people who practiced t'ai chi lived longer and got less cancer and had fewer colds?
people have the natural capacity to  affirm and embrace life in the most difficult of circumstances, and to help  each other despite their circumstances.'
curing is what allopathic mainstream medicine has to offer, when it can, and that's what the physician brings to you.
" m: "so there is an ethical foundation to chinese medicine.
these are the people who come to commonweal and think they 'can't do imagery' because they can't visualize.
because they have taken a totally different path from western thought they  have explored realms we probably never would have.
most cancer patients just melt at the idea of getting a massage.
also bringing in dr. candace pert's work on peptides as the agents of emotion ( moyers' p. 177) would be relevant.
" e: "yes, i think people in the west are beginning to pay much more  attention to the way they live, the way they eat, and the way they think.
for instance, if you pick up a stone, the top is yang, or 'male,' and the bottom is yin.
and this seems like a key message that has to be understood by the individual if they are to avoid the errors of anecdotal, unsubstantiated stories and claims.
m: "i asked about the danger of romanticizing illness. '
" r: "it's not always possible, bill.
he is now ninety-one years old.
a core assumption of a science of religion is that there is a correct way to live.
but the illness is the human experience of the disease.
i don't know the answer.
but after i tried the chinese medicine and herbs, i  found that they worked, so i began to change my mind.
if i have an illness that you can treat, i expect you as a doctor  to extend my life.
it only means that the studies have to be  done.
as a physician, i was taught that you touch people only to diagnose them, and if you touch them in any other way, even in a comforting way, they may misunderstand.
we started by just throwing things away -- bathtubs, light fixtures, windows.
two thousand years ago, one of the most famous taoists, mencius, said, 'where the will goes, the chi will follow.'
medicine as a primary social and individual concern would be impacted in numerous ways by this re-orientation.
and we discovered that the babies that were touched survived better.
by arthur m. jacksonby arthur m. jackson copyright 1998, 2006 p. 253: e: "to these people [who fill a city park to practice t'ai chi ch'uan], as to their physicians, the body is a series of energy conduits.
after graduation i went to the chi gong research  laboratory.
at the will of the body: reflections on illness describes how frank and his wife came to see that their struggle was not against cancer but with the nature of life, to preserve the wonder of it against the shambles illness would make of it.
that's what this doctor claims to be doing --
medicine as a primary social  and individual concern would be impacted in numerous ways by this  re-orientation.
many  people initially experience their strength through anger -- just as i did.
the  distinctions we bring to a hospital in terms of mind and body are abstractions  that we make.
people are called upon to edit themselves.
patients went to them to learn about 'energy medicine.'
i have to say that i'm not sure -- but it does, and i trust that.
so  i think that large elements of culture enter into what is a healthy response to  these situations.
that was a wonderful moment of great healing for everybody because it made clear that there really is only one group.
" e: "this is to say that chinese medicine and western medicine  combined is better than either of the two alone.
maybe  isolation weakens us."
never had any intention of learning traditional medicine, having  been trained according to western medical models.
i think what she means is that the process of being deeply wounded in this way has made her able to open herself to the love that is around her and that was always around her.
so to avoid those  curative potentials is a very great mistake.
it was in that recovery that they found their mission of helping others.
" response: i would assume that our working hypothesis would be that chi is a  metaphor for feeling one's body and concentrating very intensely on its  different parts.
for example, for thirty-six years i have had crohn's disease, which is an autoimmune disease of the intestine and the joints.
and when the fear is taken away, people are empowered to deal with whatever they need to deal with and to seek and find meaning in the events of their lives.
" p. 277: m: "but does chinese medicine cure the illness, or does it just help the patient to live with it?" xie: "that depends on the disease.
chinese classics written  twenty-four centuries ago say that 'in the old days, people lived to be one  hundred, but now' -- that is 400 b.c.e. -- 'they are not in control of their  spirits, their emotions, or their thoughts.
one has to do with the  science of it, and the other has to do with the experience.
but one of the most fundamental distinctions we start with is the distinction between curing and healing.
and what they had was their bodies, the natural world around them, diet, herbs, caring for people, imagery, and belief in god.
all  doctors feel a very great satisfaction in being able to do that.
for example, the person who feels sadness at the thought of losing her breast -- well, life is precious to that person.
i'm very suspicious of people who say, 'oh, well, you know, what's a breast?'
we have found that if we do this combination of things intensively for a week, it characteristically produces very important and lasting shifts in people's experience of their illness.
we all have many, many facets that are jostling about inside us.
some of us are visual, some auditory, some kinesthetic.
she invited him to tell his story, and he started to cry again, and said he just felt very intensely how fragile life was and how precious.
by arthur m. jackson copyright 1998, 2006 p. 253: e: "to these people [who fill a city park to practice t'ai chi  ch'uan], as to their physicians, the body is a series of energy conduits.
they also had  thinner lesions than the people who did not express their feelings.
it's interesting that shamanism, which is the old tradition of healing that comes out of all the great cultures around the world, is remarkably similar in many different parts of the world.
it only means that the studies have to be done.
so  many americans think of touch as sex, and they think of sex as taboo, and then  the mind begins to raise barriers to this form of nourishment.
and taking pain as part of life and learning how to fully incorporate it into people's lives is the challenge of a science of religion.
and this would seem to be an obvious direction that western  medicine should adopt.
i think the greatest thing  you can ever give someone else is your attention -- not with judgment, but just  listening.
maybe  there's something about touching that strengthens the will to live.
we do a little relaxation to help people catch a poem.
only death is no  trouble.'
that's in large part what chinese medicine is about.
p. 354: r: "healing may not be so much about getting better as about letting go of everything that isn't you -- all of the expectations, all of the beliefs -- and becoming who you are.
but sometimes the language gets in the way.
it can also be used  as a martial art, like boxing, but it is not designed to attack.
" m: "i understand you, but at the same time i don't want to throw away more years.
but my experience is that all emotions, to the extent that they engage you with life, are positive.
if you studied both  groups for ten years, would you find that people who practiced t'ai chi lived  longer and got less cancer and had fewer colds?
the reason china is often called 'the  middle kingdom' is because it has found this truth of the tao.
they  say that the sense of isolation, of being separated from people who are well,  is as painful as chemotherapy, as cancer itself.
lu: "our training was for six years, and we studied both western and  chinese traditional medicine.
e: "this is the strangest and to me the most unbelievable form of traditional chinese medicine.
p. 292: m: "later david takes me to a doctor who was moving his hands  in circles around a young man's skull, never touching a hair."
and the laughter and the joy come mixed in with very intense emotions of pain and sorrow and anger.
the doctor might recommend herbs or massage or acupuncture or diet or t'ai chi or chi gong simply in order that the patient might go from a disease-free state to even greater health.
that's what this doctor claims to be doing -- performing external chi gong therapy on this patient, using his energy to help redirect the flow of the patient's energy.
in fact, it wasn't until i had been in the chinese medical college for months that my teacher finally drove it home that the whole system is based on chi energy, and on the balances of yin and yang.
chairman mao used to say that chinese medicine and  western medicine should be combined.
out of that trust we can begin to pay  attention to our own wounds and to each other's wounds -- and to heal and be  healed.
and we hope that you will find something of benefit to you." m: "and by benefit, you mean..." l: "by benefit we mean something that they will feel is useful.
we start looking at what's wrong, what's the pathology, what's  the disease.
" m: "but isn't there a placebo effect going on here -- the power of  suggestion and the response of belief?" lu: "this treatment, like any other medical measure, has its  psychological effects.
that's why 'you can talk about the tao, but it is by no means  simple.'
but i've become numb because i care too much.
p. 312: m: "how did they come up with this particular geography of the  body we saw them using in the hospital?
there's a similar distinction between pain, which is the physiological phenomenon, and suffering, which is the human experience of pain.
i  don't think it's really being touched with indifference when they go to  hospitals.
the foregoing interpretation is important because we are used to hearing these things discussed in the same way prayer is discussed in which there is a strong component of magic and unquestioning faith.
a person who practices for just three months in  order to get rid of an illness is like a person who has only graduated from  high school and doesn't go on any further in education.
they've lost breasts or other parts of their bodies.
patients went to them to learn about 'energy  medicine.'
there are thousands of doctors all over this country who make the same claim and millions of patients who would claim to have been healed this way.
and if we don't, then i think the skeptical in the west have every right to say, 'we don't believe this.
m: "so what do you think is happening to them when they're writing poetry?
so he is trained in all the  techniques we've talked about -- acupuncture, herbs, massage, taking the pulse,  looking at the tongue.
why did you change?" xie: "in my earlier practice i came across some problematic cases for which western medicine did not offer any satisfactory cure.
i'm ninety-one years old, and i can still take trips abroad by  plane and teach t'ai chi to others.
" r: "yes -- 'your life matters to me.'
(p. 323) p. 324: l: "...everyone with cancer who wants to live, hopes to be  cured in some sense.
p. 334: l: "people will sit around the room together and say, 'it's  crazy that i had to get cancer to learn this stuff.'
however, controlled studies need to be done in the hope that there is in fact something more here.
in human society, psychology cannot be eliminated from  any branch of learning, so in this sense we say that chi gong is also under the  influence of psychology.
what insights have you gleaned  about the connections between the mind and the body?
healing and the mind, bill moyers, doubleday, new york, 1950.1.
a science of religion is about understanding the universe and dealing with it as it is, not as we would want it to be.
e: "i think you're right, but chinese patients don't understand all the theory either.
the question is, how do you translate that into  western scientific terms?
many of the dreams were terrible nightmares filled with anxiety and fear and loss.
but his specialty is training patients with every  disease you can think of to use their minds to affect their conditions -- and  also using this own mind, or chi, to affect their condition." response: without systematic, consistent, extensive study, it is almost  impossible to assess the power of suggestion on a human being.
however, this doesn't mean that there is nothing of value in studying chinese medicine.
for example, perhaps my childhood taught me that in order to  survive i had to become voiceless and invisible so that my alcoholic mother  never noticed me.
" e: "the temple is symmetric, and it's supposed to fit into nature perfectly." m: "their architecture is based on philosophy and geometry, but is their medicine based on anything more than philosophy?
dealing with pain in a constructive way that allows the individual to maintain a sflihm is one goal of a science of religion.
it is very likely that chinese medicine has a deeper insight than western medicine on this issue.
and whatever beneficial effects this provides healthwise, it is a key aspect of a wise person.
sometimes i will have an idealistic person who believes that they are going to cure themself as well as heal themself just through diet and imagery and meditation and so forth, without using the mainstream medicine.
even if somebody  didn't have physical symptoms, the doctor would look at him or her and say,  'you could become healthier if you did the following.'
m: "did the ancient doctors think that living in this way would  contribute to longevity?"
p. 308: m: "although traditional chinese medicine feels alien to westerners like me, i can see that it may have something to offer our practice of medicine.
there was no way to separate mind  from body, because what we call the mind was part of the body.
" m: "yet you're very emphatic that this kind of healing is not to be pursued at the expense of traditional medicine, and that traditional medicine has done some wonderful things in curing disease and extending life and relieving pain, so you don't give it up for this healing process.
we don't want everybody to leave here at  the end of the week doing imagery, or eating a vegetarian diet, or doing yoga,  or anything else.
what insights have you gleaned about the connections between the mind and the body?
however, it  seems to me being active in the world and dealing with it has adequate  opportunities to confront pain, overcome it, and utilize it in rising to a  higher level of understanding and living.
achieving a sflihm should be that individual's goal.
the massage is nourishing.
the same is true of herbs.
but recent research and insights provide the possibility that we will soon start to understand what dreaming is really for.
in fact, it wasn't until i had been in the chinese medical college for months  that my teacher finally drove it home that the whole system is based on chi  energy, and on the balances of yin and yang.
it was so bad that when michael lerner came to see it,  he said, 'oh, rachel, you bought this?'
by the end of the week people have found things that make a profound difference in their quality of life.
so to receive loving touch, supportive, caring touch as well as the kind of touch that works out all the kinks in the muscles and just relaxes you -- well, again, it's just common sense.
" m: "but the legacy of puritan america has been hard to overcome.
we call that empirical science.
m: "did the ancient doctors think that living in this way would contribute to longevity?"
in the last hundred years we've gone from that to a lot more sophisticated science.
these are useful distinctions to help focus on important differences between the human experience and the disease.
the human capacity for nobility, for magnificence, for meritorious actions and  our ability to bring these capacities to any experience so that we come out of  it better at some deeper level is critical to what it means to be a wise  person.
also, the  experiences and insights that resulted from her own health problems are very  useful.
the doctor tried to teach people the best  way to live their lives." response: and this model is one a science of religion should adopt.
it's interesting that shamanism,  which is the old tradition of healing that comes out of all the great cultures  around the world, is remarkably similar in many different parts of the world.
you right now clears the way for what may be next.
you use imagery a great deal.
but his chi excess doesn't  mean there is too much chi in his body, just that the flow of chi stops in that  particular area and is unable to travel farther.
they often go off into the  superficial aspects of it, the pop psychology and all of that.
much of chinese  medicine is based on the notion of obtaining immortality -- the wise doctor was  said to help you live for one hundred years.
sometimes i will have an idealistic person who believes that they are  going to cure themself as well as heal themself just through diet and imagery  and meditation and so forth, without using the mainstream medicine.
" m: "you know, i think millions of americans are ahead of your profession in the practice of mind/body medicine.
remen believes that the proper response to serious disease is anger.
the classical chinese physician received a fee only as  long as the patient remained in good health.
but if i  had had only the surgery and the medications, i would have been an invalid.
we should place it in its proper position -- not hold it too high or  too low." response: one of the best ways to recognize when suggestion is a key factor  in some phenomena is to change various components and see if the effect  changes.
but if we go back to the quality-of-life side, experientially, we all know that to sit on how we're feeling, and to not be able to be who we are in the world, is intrinsically less satisfying than being who we are.
but powerful things happen in the  midst of that loneliness.
he was thinking about his wife and his  children and how he loved them." response: connecting to our common humanity is the first challenge of every  human being.
p. 276: m: "your patients can choose either western treatment of chinese treatment.
many health-promotion programs use it as a basic framework because it's an efficient way of accomplishing stress reduction.
in fact, i will often find  myself suggesting to cancer patients who have overlooked what mainstream  medicine has to offer that they're not going to find in these healing  approaches the curative potential that exists for many cancers in mainstream  medicine.
hypnosis shows us that these effects are far greater than most persons realize.
the chinese tell me that these contemplative practices help their symptoms, but i wonder.
but the illness is the human experience of  the disease.
today physicians in chinese hospitals spend most of their time with the  practical applications of chinese medicine: the herbs, the needles, and the  pressure points.
illness begins where medicine  leaves off, where i recognize that what is happening to my body is not some set  of measures.
i  kept hearing my father's voice saying, 'that's a perfectly good light fixture,  why are you throwing it away?'
at the level of the individual help needs  to be focused toward exploring options, drawing on group support, and living  the best life one can regardless of how long it is.
when external chi gong proved to be as effective with the woman having  cardiorespiratory diseases as regular chi gong that should have been a red  flag.
their task, as they describe it, is to restore unseen harmonies.
" m: "we see that notion of balance in chinese architecture, the  spheres and circles and roofs of the temples come down in a balanced,  symmetrical way, they even have names like 'the temple of perfect  harmony.'
and when people speak their truth in this way, it's highly personal, but it will be true for everybody.
a lot of people with cancer have been  touched only with medical intent for a very long time.
you know, it's ironic that i should have introduced poetry to the program, because i don't like poetry, basically.
she has served on the faculty of the stanford medical school and on the clinical faculty of the school of health sciences, university of california, berkeley, and the school of medicine, university of california, san francisco.
r: "my sense is that all power comes out of the ability to  accept what is.
certainly, the chinese culture has many ideas and discoveries that a science of religion must consider.
every movement  of t'ai chi is designed for defense.
that doesn't feel real to me.
i think one of the truly great tasks of our time is to make these technologies compassionate.
their primary value is probably in  providing a cohesive force in society.
many people tell us that they experience being touched with indifference when they go to hospitals.
so, according to this ancient philosophy, the universe  is made of these two forces, and the struggle is in maintaining the balance  between the two forces.
" m: "and you could feel some of these emotions in the patients with ulcers simply by taking the pulse?" xie: "partially, yes." response: if one is to tie emotion to disease, it is then essential to have a testable theory of emotion.
" "from its very beginning two thousand years ago, chinese medicine said that what goes on in our minds influences our health.
i then discovered that chinese medicine had many advantages.
" m: "it's true that extending life is not always the highest goal, but  there is this will to live.
p. 275: m: "since you practice western medicine as well as chinese  medicine, would you ever use a drug like tagamet for treating these patients'  ulcers?
as  a matter of fact, when i was first diagnosed, i was told that i would have  multiple surgeries, that there was no cure for this disease, and that i would  be dead by the time i was forty." m: "do you remember the feelings you had when you learned at the age  of fifteen that you had crohn's disease?
or, in order to survive, i had to trust no one.
" response: i would assume that our working hypothesis would be that chi is a metaphor for feeling one's body and concentrating very intensely on its different parts.
for example, disease can be caused by the intensification of any of the seven human emotions -- joy, anger, melancholy, brooding, sorrow, fear, and shock.
and you know, we've never had anybody who couldn't write it."
e: "he trained in traditional chinese medicine for six years in  shanghai, and he also studied western medicine.
you know,  we may think we need to be more in order to be whole.
but  what about the other side?
so we should start with the fact that if we look at all the people using all the different alternative healing methods with cancer, we find relatively few well-documented cases where people have fully reversed a cancer, and it has never returned.
" m: "how did you get rid of your loneliness as a fifteen-year-old girl hearing that you had a devastating disease?
p. 361: "several of my patients have had near-death experiences.
some of these will be cognitive, mental exploration, and some of them will be  more experiential, psychological explorations.
she invited him to tell his  story, and he started to cry again, and said he just felt very intensely how  fragile life was and how precious.
we have to learn how to train people so that they can do this work with their hearts wide open.
" response: sounds worthy of further study.
p. 325: l: "...the internal healing processes seem to have a tremendously difficult time with metastatic cancer.
yoga's just a word for a packaging  of those things that came together and were refined thousands of years ago in  india.
it's all a matter of balance.
so we need to take control of our imagination  and use it for our well-being."
'illness is brutal,  cruel, lonely, terrifying.
temoshek looked at the difference between patients who expressed their  feelings and those who didn't, and discovered that the ones who expressed their  feelings had more immune activity at the site of their lesions.
and always we must remember that in spite of our  current learning, we have barely begun to understand the way things really are.
maybe isolation weakens us."
m: "are you really talking about a spiritual discipline?" shi: "from its name in chinese, taoism sounds like a religion.
you can't have one without the other.
" e: "i think in the last fifty years we have begun to accept the  notion that thinking in harmful ways -- being chronically anxious or depressed,  for example -- may lead to illness or increase your risk of heart disease.
" l: "massage goes back to the very ancient reality of touch.
and then i came across a certain kind of poetry that was different -- the poetry of wendell berry, for example, who is basically a farmer.
m: "at beijing medical university, we meet a doctor who operates out of both frames of reference, east and west.
temoshek looked at the difference between patients who expressed their feelings and those who didn't, and discovered that the ones who expressed their feelings had more immune activity at the site of their lesions.
yet another is to  refresh.
and if i'm your doctor, and i feel numb, you may experience me as  indifferent.
interviewee: "rachel naomi remen, m.d., is founder and director of the  institute for the study of health and illness at commonweal and the cofounder  and medical director of the commonweal cancer help program in bolinas,  california.
although philosophy and religion have a great deal in common and one can shade into the other, philosophy is more nearly an intellectual pursuit while religion guides day-to-day living particularly for the common individual, the bulk of society.
" e: "yes, the chinese medical system is based primarily on taoism,  which claims that it's not just your physical well-being that determines your  health, but also your behavior toward others.
interviewee: "michael lerner, ph.d., is founder and president of  commonweal, a health and environmental research center in bolinas, california,  and is cofounder of the commonweal cancer help program.
i asked him, 'how many times have you had surgery?'" "he said, 'oh, ninety-three times!'" "'ninety-three times!'" "'yes,,' he responded, 'but only three of them actually happened.'
people talk about how love and cheerfulness and optimism are positive emotions, and sadness, fear, and anger are negative emotions, and negative emotions are dangerous.
this one is dr. lu, the director of the chi  gong clinic."
the task was to teach patients to stay healthy by living correctly;  temperament, diet, thoughts, emotions, and exercise were all important in a  system in which the patient took primary responsibility for sickness or health.
the notion here is that at an advanced level, people not only move chi in their own bodies but can emit it at will.
however, because chinese medicine is not based on  testable hypotheses with double blind tests all of its conclusions are suspect.
but  what i hear or sense about you.
p. 297: e: "so what you imply is that we foreigners can also learn chi."
there is a natural process that moves towards wholeness in  me and in every human being.
i don't  believe in positive emotions.
we kept throwing away more and more things, and with everything we threw away, the building became more whole.
when a patient is ill, our  western doctors look for physical or chemical abnormalities.
western medicine is effective in treating the ulcer, but a combination of both western and chinese medicine produces an even better effect.
p. 266: "...massage is not just a technique for loosening the muscles  or relaxing stiff joints.
a core  assumption of a science of religion is that there is a correct way to live.
that's why 'you can talk about the tao, but it is by no means simple.'
" m: "that's loneliness.
being here opens up opportunities for people to be listened to, and heard, and validated.
" response: i take goethe's point to be supportive of the idea of an "i" as a multi-faceted construct.
although the chinese didn't separate mind from body they also  didn't separate mind/body from superstition.
that's when i really began to be interested in  chinese medicine.
m: "so what do you think is happening to them when they're writing  poetry?
" response: i can't agree that growing in wisdom and learning to love better is all.
" p. 326: m: "if i hear you, you're suggesting that there is a  difference between the persons's experience of illness and the physicians's  attention to that illness.
is illness caused by hidden  forces that are out of balance?
one is that it makes you  live longer.
these are useful distinctions to help focus on important  differences between the human experience and the disease.
those who do not achieve this step lose their own full humanity and live a rather truncated life.
so, according to this ancient philosophy, the universe is made of these two forces, and the struggle is in maintaining the balance between the two forces.
the goal is to study individuals and study cultures to clarify what that way is and all the things necessary for its achievement by a given person.
if you can learn through physical and  psychological exercises to control that energy, sooner or later you can learn  to move it outside your body.
but the two will have to come together and look at hundreds of patients,  randomly assigned to different groups, in order to figure out whether these  things work predictably, and, if so, how."
but  at another level it also seems to offer a different view of health -- that  health is not just an absence of illness, it is a way of living.
when a disease germ enters the body it causes an upset in the balance of how the body works.
it's all part of life.
that's  why this is such an exciting field.
some of these will be cognitive, mental exploration, and some of them will be more experiential, psychological explorations.
dr. remen maintains a private practice in behavioral medicine,  specializing in the care of individuals and families with life-threatening  illnesses.
p. 306: m: "is there anything here that might be useful to your  patients back in boston?
she said  to him, 'wait a minute, what happened for you?'
then it began to change, becoming left-right, bright-dark, up-down, male-female, yin-yang -- the pairs of opposites.
r: "i really worry about people who get cancer and don't get  angry, because i feel that somehow they're not holding to life, they're not  engaged with life, or they're not passionate enough about life.
western medicine is effective  in treating the ulcer, but a combination of both western and chinese medicine  produces an even better effect.
m: "i wonder if that chi -- which no one has ever seen, or  measured, or put in a vial, or held under a microscope to examine -- is  anything like adrenaline?" e: "i think the chinese would say it's much much more than that.
what's the importance of that difference?
chinese doctors  search for hidden forces that are out of balance.
although i take it as a fact that these activities have a  beneficial effect on those who practice them, i also would say that eisenberg's  assessment puts the thing in perspective.
learning who we really are is the essence of the process for becoming a wise person.
this would be the exact goal of a science of religion.
medical treatment within a science of religion must nest within this total system.
of course the hope would be that there truly is something in chinese medicine beyond the placebo effect.
this is also called the chaos of a light yellow tint.
some people would see that as a shotgun wedding.
they've seen so much suffering and pain they can't fix, they can't feel anymore.
you also want to focus on the human experience of the disease, because the human experience may feed back into the biology of the disease in ways that we don't understand yet.
in fact, i will often find myself suggesting to cancer patients who have overlooked what mainstream medicine has to offer that they're not going to find in these healing approaches the curative potential that exists for many cancers in mainstream medicine.
the foregoing insight strikes me as a primary issue that must be  confronted in all ideas about a wise person and a wise community.
it's not what we do that makes a difference, but what we allow to happen.
but most of all,  they were teachers.
when more becomes known everything  necessary is altered to maintain that congruency.
we call that  empirical science.
as a matter of fact, when i was first diagnosed, i was told that i would have multiple surgeries, that there was no cure for this disease, and that i would be dead by the time i was forty." m: "do you remember the feelings you had when you learned at the age of fifteen that you had crohn's disease?
finally, we had thrown away everything that didn't belong.
or, why others have successfully resisted this same germ.
but the people who are doing the science have  found that many of the pieces that we use here have generally beneficial  physiological effects on people, whether these stress-reducing activities have  any effect beyond quality of life.
" e: "i think it's one of the most interesting questions the west could ask: does your morality and intention really matter to your health?
i have to say  that i'm not sure -- but it does, and i trust that.
" e: "you know, we are talking about an ideal that developed two  thousand years ago and reached its pinnacle probably four or five hundred years  ago.
and by the way, it's very common for cancer patients to say to themselves, 'if i recover from this cancer, i want to devote the rest of my life to helping other people.'
he was chief of the intensive care nursery, where all the  babies were these tiny little people you could hold in your hand.
i think, ultimately, being a human being is a very lonely thing.
you may have noticed how  much laughter there is here.
" m: "how do we learn chi?" shi: "by means of the basic training and by learning the way of  thinking in the ancient chinese culture.
by  the end of the week people have found things that make a profound difference in  their quality of life.
at that time our work was different from what we're doing now.
as i point out elsewhere (chapter xvii, " fuzzy logic and a science of religion") opposites are not a feature of the universe, rather they are a description imposed on it by virtue of the way the human mind works.
and these procedures utilized at commonweal do obviously have great benefit.
many people with cancer will tell us that they're often touched as if they were a piece of meat.
they feel that other people  don't want to listen and don't understand.
but in order to live, i need to re-own my own voice and its validity.
people who intensely want to live sometimes don't, while people who seem to be very negative, will.
the patient sitting before me brings with him or her not  only chemistry, but also family, relationships, emotions, and character.
it comes directly out of our  experience of life: it's 'i'm confused,' or 'i'm scared,' or 'there's nothing
that is enormously important.
over thousands of years, it has guided the development of  chinese civilization." response: shi is clearly wrong when he thinks of taoism as a philosophy  rather than a religion.
some of your beliefs may help you to live, and some of them may  not.
p. 286: "...ma yueh liang, [is] one of the greatest living  practitioners of t'ai chi ch'uan, a grand master.
i would say melancholy, brooding and sorrow are all one feeling state (made up  of the three named intensity levels: sadness/pensiveness/grief on plutchik's  model).
i guess you could say that the basis is a kind of 'early' protoscience.
they never opened up the body.
m: "and how does chi relate to that?" xie: "these two cases are opposite.
if you ask yourself, have you learned most from the parts of your life that were easy, or the parts of your life that were painful, i imagine that like the rest of us, you've learned most from the parts of your life that were painful.
over thousands of years, it has guided the development of chinese civilization." response: shi is clearly wrong when he thinks of taoism as a philosophy rather than a religion.
the doctor's job was not simply to cure you when you were ill, but to help you reach your maximum health by helping you lead a more balanced life, hereby increasing your vital energy, or chi."
it was obvious in  watching the people here that massage was a part of the healing process.
it's an unfortunate fact that human beings learn through pain and suffering.
" r: "it doesn't take the cancer away.
they have tried herbs, needles, and pressure points and have  observed that in some instances those things helped individuals with particular  illnesses.
if they need an operation, they'll make sure to find a western doctor, whereas for chronic diseases they'll prefer chinese medicine.
even if you cut the stone in half, you still  have a top and a bottom.
i guess you could  say that the basis is a kind of 'early' protoscience.
r: "...it's our woundedness that allows us to trust each  other.
so expressing your feelings is part of that movement inward, toward a core self where one can find some peace.
" r: "if it's possible, yes.
p. 325: l: "different people come [to commonweal] for very different  reasons.
and when  the fear is taken away, people are empowered to deal with whatever they need to  deal with and to seek and find meaning in the events of their lives.
and also, very often, their bodies have changed.
however, we can only do this within the context of a  supportive environment of others who share this goal.
i think that's what healing is -- evoking the will to live.
they've  lost breasts or other parts of their bodies.
i don't think it's really indifference, by the way.
they do not know how to find  contentment within.
now  you many have a thousand women, each with an absolutely identical breast cancer  biopsy, so that the disease is essentially identical for each one, but there  may be a thousand different illnesses, a thousand different human experiences  of what that's like, a thousand different relationships to that disease.
" p. 335: l: "in theory, at least, in the east, people used to think  deeply on these subjects [different aspects of meaning of life] before they  became ill.
i think it weakens people to feel  isolated.
some can be cured gradually and thoroughly, and some can't.
it doesn't have to be yoga.
treating it has the goal of  returning the body to its "normal" state.
'illness is  the experience of living through the disease....
p. 302: wang: "the purpose of our living is not to become famous or to make a lot of money, or to struggle so hard to get something that eventually we lose our lives.
" m: "you know, i think millions of americans are ahead of your  profession in the practice of mind/body medicine.
to me this indicates that suggestion is the only thing happening here (in  regular chi gong as well as external chi gong).
but in the west, with our less contemplative tradition, it is often only when we become ill that we begin this journey of inner exploration that we might not have undertaken under any other circumstances.
i want to live, and i want to live as long as i can.
but in order to live,  i need to trust enough to love and be touched by other people."
interviewee: "rachel naomi remen, m.d., is founder and director of the institute for the study of health and illness at commonweal and the cofounder and medical director of the commonweal cancer help program in bolinas, california.
to do science, you have  to watch something, see a pattern, and then experiment with it.
dr. xie (pronounced 'shee-yeah') never had any intention of learning traditional medicine, having been trained according to western medical models.
she has served on the faculty of the stanford medical school and on  the clinical faculty of the school of health sciences, university of  california, berkeley, and the school of medicine, university of california, san  francisco.
what often comes up is that there isn't a simple formula.
and let  yourself know something that is true for you about illness or life or death or  love, or whatever.
much of chinese medicine is based on the notion of obtaining immortality -- the wise doctor was said to help you live for one hundred years.
so when  they say 'find this ball at the dan tian point,' they are talking about a ball  of energy which exists where chi begins in the human body.
the doctor was part priest, part  martial artist, part scholar, and part empirical scientist.
there  is nothing romantic about illness,' remen answers, and even as she speaks, i  remember that this woman has had major surgery seven times.
chi can't pass through, causing his disease.
sometimes people heal physically, and they don't heal emotionally, or mentally, or spiritually.
" m: "we see that notion of balance in chinese architecture, the spheres and circles and roofs of the temples come down in a balanced, symmetrical way, they even have names like 'the temple of perfect harmony.'
we all do imagery  -- but in our own way.
but these issues are critical to a science of religion and must be dealt with by it.
chi, the chinese name for this energy, flows along systematic meridians, which do not coincide with any known physiologic structures.
we don't look at our medical system that way.
but if i don't express it, although i feel it, i'm pretending to be something other than what i am.
but the study showed that the women who had the worst nightmares had the easiest deliveries." response:
so, if you were physically strong but morally weak, you could not be considered 'healthy.'
if you ask, 'how does that happen?'
i think it weakens people to feel isolated.
this would seem to be a useful technique as long as one  doesn't confuse technique with reality.
any health effects come out of the benefits of practicing techniques to reduce stress, the feeling of intimacy resulting from being joined with others, and the placebo effect.
" r: "yes, i do -- and they're very much the same feelings that many of  the people who come here feel.
p. 337: m: "do you find that people often blame themselves for their  cancer?
as almost every american knows, sometimes the technologies of mainstream medicine are applied with enormous compassion, and at other times the technologies drive what's happening in a way that forgets what the integrity of the human being is.
for the chinese,  herbs are not a concoction of chemicals that influence other chemicals in the  body; herbs help to 'unstick chi' -- to get the energy flowing again.
we're dealing with a sick person." "to the chinese, health was viewed as a continuum.
what's true is whatever is happening right now.
" r: "it's interesting that many of the people here this week have survived a terrible childhood.
and not everything is  fixable.
people who intensely want to live sometimes don't, while  people who seem to be very negative, will.
what they brought has been excluded from western medicine and must be brought  back within the context of a science of religion.
and then i came across a certain  kind of poetry that was different -- the poetry of wendell berry, for example,  who is basically a farmer.
it's the first way a mother and child connect with  each other.
but my experience  is that all emotions, to the extent that they engage you with life, are  positive.
we have found that if we do this combination of things intensively for  a week, it characteristically produces very important and lasting shifts in  people's experience of their illness.
there's a similar distinction between pain, which is the  physiological phenomenon, and suffering, which is the human experience of pain.
are they getting out what they really feel inside is true?" r: "maybe what they know inside is true.
but if the word gets in the way, it should be thrown out and replaced  by some other package of ways of relaxing the mind and the body.
the process of really coming to grips  with all those different aspects of our personalities and beginning to  integrate them and bring them forth is a life-long task.
it may be that psychological  factors in an individual life contribute to the multifactorial mix that caused  the emergence of a cancer, but to say that you caused your illness because of  some set of events or some way that you related to the world ignores all the  other things over which you had absolutely no control.
r: "i really worry about people who get cancer and don't get angry, because i feel that somehow they're not holding to life, they're not engaged with life, or they're not passionate enough about life.
you use  imagery a great deal.
you also want to focus on the  human experience of the disease, because the human experience may feed back  into the biology of the disease in ways that we don't understand yet.
now all of us have done certain things in order to survive, and survival is about living longer, right?
it reduces the stress of cancer and reinforces that even  the scarred body can be touched in a caring way.
we  don't fix the people who come here, we simply offer them an experience which  allows them to explore who they are as human beings and get in touch with  strengths they didn't know they had, and to see themselves and their lives  differently.
you know, it's ironic that i should have introduced poetry  to the program, because i don't like poetry, basically.
the task was to teach patients to stay healthy by living correctly; temperament, diet, thoughts, emotions, and exercise were all important in a system in which the patient took primary responsibility for sickness or health.
most likely  chi is all suggestion.
this whole area if expanded to incorporate current scientific knowledge might lead into very productive and useful areas.
when you're able to express the fear and pain and the sorrow and the anger, then there's room for the lightness and the joy as well.
we don't know how to do that with everybody.
we don't touch each  other in this culture, and touching is often misunderstood or even sexualized.
western medicine looks to the germ as the cause of  disease, and has overlooked why this body at this time has succumbed to the  germ after successfully resisting it for years.
biomedicine intervenes entirely on the biological disease that it's making an  effort to treat -- but it doesn't address the individual illness.
the other terms have the same general idea.
" xie: "in my earlier practice i came across some problematic cases for  which western medicine did not offer any satisfactory cure.
all of these distinctions can  be listed under the difference between biomedicine, which is the scientific  effort to cure, and what's called biopsychosocial medicine, or patient-centered  medicine.
for this reason, when they reach fifty, they begin to deteriorate.'
one of the illnesses of the 'new age' is the view, 'i caused my cancer, i should be able to reverse it.'
the  massage is nourishing.
m: "and dr. lu is recognized as credible?"
e: "it's a big laboratory.
you see, in chinese culture the body was viewed as the gift of one's parents and, ultimately, the gift of one's ancestors.
p. 314: e: [as a result of studying chinese medicine], "i have...a deeper appreciation of the possibility that maybe the endpoint of life is not how long you live, but the way you live.
it doesn't  have to be yoga.
and certainly that will to live is tied into nurturing touch and caring concern from other people we care about.
an observation leads you to a theory, and you test the  theory over and over again.
and this point provides some guidance to focus our behavior.
this strikes me as far fetched.
i wonder whether acupuncture  could help people who have had strokes to regain some of their function?
for example, the person who feels sadness at the thought of losing  her breast -- well, life is precious to that person.
e: "yes, we invented the notion that 'biology' and 'physics' and  'psychology' and 'psychiatry' are separate.
in one of these case, western doctors and chinese doctors differed in their diagnosis."
take these two patients here for example: we  gave them totally different chinese medicines for their ulcers, and in both  cases the medicine worked well.
" "let me give you an image.
his pulse belongs to the 'liver pulse,' which has something to do  with emotions.
and, it is also critical to understand that anything of merit that comes out of illness, pain, suffering could undoubtedly have been achieved in other less painful ways under better circumstances.
it's called 'external chi gong.'
some can be cured gradually and  thoroughly, and some can't.
r: "my sense is that all power comes out of the ability to accept what is.
but we did a special clinical study, and external  chi gong treatment proved to be effective, particularly with cardiovascular  diseases, digestive diseases, and neurosis.
payments stopped when sickness began.
there is a natural process that moves towards wholeness in me and in every human being.
you see, in chinese culture the  body was viewed as the gift of one's parents and, ultimately, the gift of one's  ancestors.
p. 335: m: "i prefer our times to...ancient days, but i do think there  is a kind of wisdom we have lost in our information and technology." l: "the essence of much that we do here is to recover that wisdom and  put it in a very commonsense, modern language that is completely accessible to  people in our time, so that it can be integrated with first-rate mainstream  medicine, which i would not give up for a quarter of a second.
you'd take your pinky finger and rub it down the little baby's back.
but  it's not a religion, it's a philosophy.
however, controlled studies need to be done in the hope  that there is in fact something more here.
this whole area if expanded to incorporate current scientific knowledge  might lead into very productive and useful areas.
" m: "how did you get rid of your loneliness as a fifteen-year-old girl  hearing that you had a devastating disease?
i can only say that it is a t'ai chi state, a state of harmony.
" e: "but the chinese never did that.
i never understood it.
" response: moyers has focused very well in the above discussion that there  are really two separate issues.
you know, when people first get a diagnosis of cancer, they often run out and buy a hundred dollars worth of books about what you need to do in order to live and what you mustn't do or you won't live.
taoism in fact guided the lives of the peasants of china as well as the rest of society.
biomedicine intervenes entirely on the biological disease that it's making an effort to treat -- but it doesn't address the individual illness.
ten years  later, however, we began to use the external chi gong treatment." p. 294: m: "why did you change to that?" lu: "there was an old doctor named zhao guang who was doing massage  treatments.
in between there is a  space that is neither the index finger nor the middle finger.
you know, we may think we need to be more in order to be whole.
" e: "you know, i wonder about whether herbs could help reduce side  effects for patients getting chemotherapy for cancer, or lessen the effects of  steroids for patients with ulcerative colitis?
i see the two as fitting  together.
healing is what you bring to the encounter with cancer and with mainstream medicine.
they're interdependent -- they can't exist without one another.
those who do not achieve this step lose their own full humanity  and live a rather truncated life.
m: "but isn't the best thing a doctor can do for people who are ill is fix them?
this program has no ideology.
it is a limiting interpretation that ends up masking  the true "way it is."
and if they were not angry, i would be concerned that somehow they had become resigned too much, in a strange kind of way.
" response: for a science of religion it would be particularly important to  distinguish between disease and illness, pain and suffering, as well as between  curing and healing.
in a wise community one's feelings must not only  be known to the individual, they must be shared and shared with the community.
they've noticed patterns and used them, and that's empirical science.
m: "how long did it take you to discover your chi?" ma: "it took me ten years to discover it.
so the recovery of that wisdom and compassion, both on the part of the physician or the healer and on the part of the person with the illness, is one of the most important things we can do in medicine.
i wonder whether acupuncture could help people who have had strokes to regain some of their function?
p. 275: m: "since you practice western medicine as well as chinese medicine, would you ever use a drug like tagamet for treating these patients' ulcers?
there's not enough evidence.'
but the people who are doing the science have found that many of the pieces that we use here have generally beneficial physiological effects on people, whether these stress-reducing activities have any effect beyond quality of life.
" r: "yes, and the reverse is also true.
touch is deeply  reassuring and nurturing.
the physician was a role model.
it's very close to the process of education.
sharing our true self with others who respond  with appreciation and sharing of their own humanness is one of the keys to open  the door of a sflihm.
the above would be completely congruent with a science of religion since i would define "true health" as a sflihm (a sustainable feeling that one's life has meaning).
that's the key point of chinese treatment.
e: "this is the strangest and to me the most unbelievable form of  traditional chinese medicine.
now all of us have done certain things in order  to survive, and survival is about living longer, right?
it's very close to the process of  education.
and yet imagery, like  healing, is part of everybody's birthright as a human being.
and if they were not angry, i would be concerned that somehow they had become  resigned too much, in a strange kind of way.
our essential message to people is that if  you come here, we will provide you with a variety of opportunities to explore.
" response: shamans provided a real service to the societies they served.
if one looks at how it is used: "hidden  forces out of balance," "restore unseen harmonics," "get  energy flowing again," these metaphors are not incompatible with the  understanding of western science.
you concentrate on  the ball of energy and learn to move it.
imagine if harvard medical school  were placed inside a large theological seminary, and classes were taught  jointly.
but i think what has to  happen for people at some point in their lives, and what certainly is happening  for all the people who were here, is that many of the things we've done in  order to survive are different from the things we need to do in order to live  and live well.
for example, disease can be caused by the  intensification of any of the seven human emotions -- joy, anger, melancholy,  brooding, sorrow, fear, and shock.
but, on the other hand, i've looked at cancer therapies in  japan, where the expression of emotion is not necessarily a positive thing.
the doctor was part priest, part martial artist, part scholar, and part empirical scientist.
in this culture we are trained to  suppress a lot of who we are in terms of our work, or our families, or whatever  else we do, so that the opportunity to explore who we are is a very important  aspect of authenticity.
touch is deeply reassuring and nurturing.
are there energy meridians?
it can also be used as a martial art, like boxing, but it is not designed to attack.
interviewee: "michael lerner, ph.d., is founder and president of commonweal, a health and environmental research center in bolinas, california, and is cofounder of the commonweal cancer help program.
so, if you were physically strong but morally weak, you could not  be considered 'healthy.'
p. 253: "as we see in the park [the same park as above], they [chinese  doctors] also teach their patients to master the flow of energy in their own  bodies through combined mental and physical practice.
but even if you practice for only three months, you would see results."
each  incubator was surrounded by shifts of people and millions of dollars worth of  equipment.
i see the two as fitting together.
as we do retreat after retreat, we  discover that all our cherished beliefs get taken from us by the experience  itself.
providing guidelines and organization to integrate and focus all these facets so the interested person can achieve clarity and effectiveness is a core challenge for a science of religion.
i don't  know the answer.
practicing t'ai chi has many functions.
p. 290: eisenberg: "in chinese theory, once you have learned to relax,  to focus on your breathing, and to let go of all the thoughts, then you can  actually find a spot in your body where your chi, your vital energy, begins.
the foregoing insight strikes me as a primary issue that must be confronted in all ideas about a wise person and a wise community.
imagine if harvard medical school were placed inside a large theological seminary, and classes were taught jointly.
and this seems like a key message that has to be understood by  the individual if they are to avoid the errors of anecdotal, unsubstantiated  stories and claims.
you need to follow hundreds of people over time and use statistics to be certain you're not observing just a chance event.
you can see other people, but you feel as if you can't touch them or be with them, because you are different.
what if you took the people who did t'ai chi but made the same amount of money  and did the same work, and who were the same age and sex?
millions of people are doing t'ai chi.
they are as much me as my hands.
although i take it as a fact that these activities have a beneficial effect on those who practice them, i also would say that eisenberg's assessment puts the thing in perspective.
and you need to be able to sort them out, because only the ones that are true, only the ones that can help you to live, are the ones you want to keep.
m: "at beijing medical university, we meet a doctor who  operates out of both frames of reference, east and west.
" l: "well, there are two pieces to that.
when  i'm asked the question, 'what do you think, doc?
chinese culture has grown out of philosophical thinking: from two, there is bound to be three.
at first most people don't believe they can write poetry.
the doctor tried to teach people the best way to live their lives." response: and this model is one a science of religion should adopt.
therefore, three emotion states are not considered (anticipation,  adoration, and disgust).
frank's work should be  brought into the domain to be utilized by a science of religion.
b health, medicine and a science of religion
and how do we use our modern scientific tools to test this possibility?" m: "i admire the chinese way of seeing us as whole human beings, but i have to say that the logic behind chinese medicine is so complex as to make it inaccessible to americans."
" p. 335: l: "in theory, at least, in the east, people used to think deeply on these subjects [different aspects of meaning of life] before they became ill.
when you come home from work at the end of the day, if you calm down and practice t'ai chi, you will be refreshed, and your tiredness will disappear.
" m: "so when you were diagnosing these patients, what did you learn  from the pulse?
maybe there's something about touching that strengthens the will to live.
it was flowing in the body with the blood, and with the energy of the body.
p. 297: e: "so what you imply is that we foreigners can also learn  chi."
we usually trust one of our ways of perceiving and processing the world more than others.
his images are of common, personal experience --  things that are true for him.
one woman said, 'sometimes when i go for my  chemotherapy, they touch me as if they don't know anybody's inside this body.'
the mother says, let me kiss it or  touch it or rub it and make it better.
but in some ways we need to be less.
" l: "it's the difference between how you feel going through this  experience of cancer and what the biopsy slide looks like to the physician.
it's just a useful  package of effective stress-reduction practices such as gently stretching  exercises, deep-breathing exercise, meditation, and progressive deep  relaxation."
p. 288: m: "you said it would take thirty years for me to discover my own chi.
p. 325: l: "different people come [to commonweal] for very different reasons.
when a patient is ill, our western doctors look for physical or chemical abnormalities.
there's some way that our culture has caused us to become alienated from the intuitive and creative in us, perhaps by calling up in us some habit of judgment.
but in some ways we need  to be less.
and you know, we've never had  anybody who couldn't write it."
of course, we didn't touch these infants because we'd get germs on them.
however, this doesn't mean that there is nothing of  value in studying chinese medicine.
the notion here  is that at an advanced level, people not only move chi in their own bodies but  can emit it at will.
years ago, when i was associate director of the pediatric clinics at the stanford medical school, one of my colleagues, marshall klaus, did a study which at the time was extremely innovative.
but it suggests that expressing one's feelings and saying how one really is in the world may have a stimulating effect.
p. 306: e: "i think of the millions of people practicing chi gong and  t'ai chi -- they have the illnesses i commonly see in my patients in boston:  migraine headaches, abdominal pains, chronic pain, insomnia.
m: "and that's what imagery helps us to do.
contact: arthur jacksoncontact: arthur jackson go on to chapter twenty-onego on to chapter twenty-one go to introduction/contents volume ii go to home page 1.
for the chinese, herbs are not a concoction of chemicals that influence other chemicals in the body; herbs help to 'unstick chi' -- to get the energy flowing again.
to us, this approach is a combination of religion and  medicine.
the native healer will try to come into contact with the part of the self that  the person is not aware of, and to elicit it, so that there's some possibility  of consciousness and growth leading to a new perspective that might help with  the illness.
" ma: "when i said it would take thirty years, i was referring to the highest stage of t'ai chi.
they don't know about control groups, or randomization and statistics any more than western-style physicians know about chi.
" m: "have you learned anything from your experience, or your own  illness, or from the retreat, about who gets sick and who doesn't?
such study must include the areas moyers explores with david felten (brain and immune systems), robert ader (conditioning immunity), and margaret kemeny (emotion and the immune system).
but it does mean that the  complementary or adjunctive or healing approaches, which may support quality of  life, and, potentially, extend life for some people, are not curative in any  systematic way.
i think all emotions can be positive."
to me this indicates that suggestion is the only thing happening here (in regular chi gong as well as external chi gong).
" m: "but isn't there a placebo effect going on here -- the power of suggestion and the response of belief?" lu: "this treatment, like any other medical measure, has its psychological effects.
however, i would agree that the foregoing sums up very well what is needed to start on the path toward achieving a sustainable feeling that one's life has meaning.
" l: "i don't know, but i think what is clearly true is that because they didn't have all the technologies, they paid attention to what they had.
and, as we said, there's an important distinction between curing, which is the scientific, effort to change what's happening in the body, and healing, which is the human experience of the effort to recover.
and so we try to touch people with the tenderness of a mother touching a child, because what a mother is saying to her child with that touch is 'live.'
" response: these are interesting beliefs, but they have very little to do  with how the universe really works.
now again, that's only one study, so i don't want to make too much of it.
one day, while your crew was filming here, we were reading our poetry to each other, and the cameraman couldn't go on.
the distinctions we bring to a hospital in terms of mind and body are abstractions that we make.
that's when i really began to be interested in chinese medicine.
it was obvious in watching the people here that massage was a part of the healing process.
but it does mean that the complementary or adjunctive or healing approaches, which may support quality of life, and, potentially, extend life for some people, are not curative in any systematic way.
in the first realm chinese medicine like all folk medicine does an excellent job.
and this point provides some guidance to focus our  behavior.
the  chinese, however, would not be interested in this question because to them,  health was not limited just to one's physical health, but also included one's  moral health.
i don't believe in positive emotions.
the human capacity for nobility, for magnificence, for meritorious actions and our ability to bring these capacities to any experience so that we come out of it better at some deeper level is critical to what it means to be a wise person.
as a result there are gems  of infinite value in their approach, even though that approach itself is as  off-base as was western blood-letting, non-sterile surgery, and other early  practices.
he  tried to cover it over, but one of the participants wouldn't let him.
p. 341: m: "how would you sum up what that experience [not knowing if  he would live or die of a heart condition] was for you?" l: "i experienced that life was incredibly precious to me, and that  the things that mattered most to me were my son and my wife.
the mother says, let me kiss it or touch it or rub it and make it better.
" r: "it's an absolute mystery -- which is very frustrating for those of us who would like to be in control.
" e: "i think it's one of the most interesting questions the west could  ask: does your morality and intention really matter to your health?
they see it as  intervening in an energy system.
they have meridians and channels of  energy.
plus, it was in fact  the agent of cohesion in china over thousands of years which as i point out is  the essential element provided by a religion.
i think we should study it, but at  the same time not exaggerate its effects of overestimate its power.
so some of the religious objectives are no longer discussed as  much."
at the experiential level we take eight people from very varied backgrounds who share in common only that they believe that if they came here for a week, they would benefit from it.
we need to let go, to throw away everything that isn't us in order to be more whole.
dr. remen maintains a private practice in behavioral medicine, specializing in the care of individuals and families with life-threatening illnesses.
p. 337: m: "do you find that people often blame themselves for their cancer?
you have to understand that anything positive that  emerges out of a real illness experience is not a function or characteristic of  the nature of illness but of human nature.
[but, rather] to have true health.
" p. 277: m: "but does chinese medicine cure the illness, or does it  just help the patient to live with it?" xie: "that depends on the disease.
" p. 331: "as to science, we've gleaned nothing about that because we're not doing the science here.
that's the scientific side.
hopefully, the efforts of a cpasr as it works to create a wise community will make thinking about meaning of life in all possible ways, more and more the norm.
it was flowing  in the body with the blood, and with the energy of the body.
you'd take  your pinky finger and rub it down the little baby's back.
there's almost a tyranny of the emotions now where people are afraid to feel their feelings because they think that if they feel certain 'negative' emotions, their cancer will get worse.
so i was very  skeptical in the beginning.
so we should start with the  fact that if we look at all the people using all the different alternative  healing methods with cancer, we find relatively few well-documented cases where  people have fully reversed a cancer, and it has never returned.
if you ask  yourself, have you learned most from the parts of your life that were easy, or  the parts of your life that were painful, i imagine that like the rest of us,  you've learned most from the parts of your life that were painful.
you weren't born with  your beliefs.
i'm ninety-one years old, and i can still take trips abroad by plane and teach t'ai chi to others.
they often go off into the superficial aspects of it, the pop psychology and all of that.
p. 332: l: "there's a very interesting scientific study by lydia temoshek, who looked at patients with malignant melanoma, which is a serious cancer.
dr. remen is author ofthe human patient."
i think for the last thousand years chinese doctors  have done that.
p. 306: e: "i think of the millions of people practicing chi gong and t'ai chi -- they have the illnesses i commonly see in my patients in boston: migraine headaches, abdominal pains, chronic pain, insomnia.
well, cancer is an enormous pain.
and i will  say to them, 'i've looked for ten years, and if i thought there was a cure for  cancer among the adjunctive, complementary approaches, i'd be the first to say  so.
as i point out elsewhere (chapter xvii,  " fuzzy logic and a science of religion") opposites are not a feature  of the universe, rather they are a description imposed on it by virtue of the  way the human mind works.
chinese sages taught that  treating someone who is already ill is like beginning to dig a well after you  have become thirsty.
when i was  working in hospitals, they used to send me around to visit people with  ileostomies, because i have an ileostomy, and it helps people to meet somebody  else who is living with an ileostomy, when they've just had this surgery.
p. 276: m: "your patients can choose either western treatment of  chinese treatment.
" r: "and if i'm lucky, i'm going to be able to do that, too.
hopefully, the efforts of a cpasr as it works to create a wise  community will make thinking about meaning of life in all possible ways, more  and more the norm.
but in the fifties, chairman  mao ordered many western-trained doctors to study traditional chinese medicine.
so many americans think of touch as sex, and they think of sex as taboo, and then the mind begins to raise barriers to this form of nourishment.
his images are of common, personal experience -- things that are true for him.
" e: "you know, we are talking about an ideal that developed two thousand years ago and reached its pinnacle probably four or five hundred years ago.
patient-centered medicine is based on the knowledge that it's not  enough just to focus on the scientific facts.
you know, china is a wonderful place to ask questions about mind and body.
because they have taken a totally different path from western thought they have explored realms we probably never would have.
p. 359: r: "there's no way to be alive and avoid pain and loss and  suffering.
" m: "how do we learn chi?" shi: "by means of the basic training and by learning the way of thinking in the ancient chinese culture.
p. 329: m: "what do you think the ancients knew about the body that  brought yoga into use as a healing instrument?
but recent  research and insights provide the possibility that we will soon start to  understand what dreaming is really for.
if one looks at how it is used: "hidden forces out of balance," "restore unseen harmonics," "get energy flowing again," these metaphors are not incompatible with the understanding of western science.
e: "right, and your desire or lack of desire.
people hear 'yoga,' and they think of some strange foreign practice.
we need to bring  that old wisdom together with mainstream medicine so that mainstream medicine  can become humane and compassionate in the application of its technologies.
even worry is a form of imagery.
we're supposed to produce something  perfect or professional.
now you many have a thousand women, each with an absolutely identical breast cancer biopsy, so that the disease is essentially identical for each one, but there may be a thousand different illnesses, a thousand different human experiences of what that's like, a thousand different relationships to that disease.
this is also called the chaos of a light yellow  tint.
for some acute diseases, such as viral infections, western doctors and  medication do not seem to provide a cure -- but chinese medicine offers some  help.
for example, for thirty-six years i have had crohn's disease, which  is an autoimmune disease of the intestine and the joints.
and i'm grateful for that.
'educare,' the root of 'education,' means 'leading forth,  wholeness, or integrity.'
p. 330: m: "what about the value of massage?
it reduces the stress of cancer and reinforces that even the scarred body can be touched in a caring way.
in every part of the universe there are these two opposing forces.
we usually trust one of our ways of perceiving and processing the world more  than others.
" m: "why did you begin the study of t'ai chi?
they were 'men of sorrows and acquainted  with grief,' in the words of the christian tradition.
there's some way that our culture has caused  us to become alienated from the intuitive and creative in us, perhaps by  calling up in us some habit of judgment.
" p. 330: l: "that's right.
and sometimes people heal emotionally, and they don't heal physically." response:
they feel that other people don't want to listen and don't understand.
some researchers have suggested that shamanism touched some bedrock of human experience and that the reason it's so similar in different places is that people came to the same conclusions about what was helpful.
the  goal is to study individuals and study cultures to clarify what that way is and  all the things necessary for its achievement by a given person.
we make very clear  from the beginning that this program is focused not on curing, but on  healing.
to the degree that a science of religion has value, it has just as  much value for chinese as americans and every other people.
" ma: "as a student who studied bacteria, i would easily be infected by  disease germs if i didn't keep myself healthy.
however, i would agree that the  foregoing sums up very well what is needed to start on the path toward  achieving a sustainable feeling that one's life has meaning.
" m: "can it be evoked?" r: "that's the question.
"i was thinking about what was for me the absolute high point of this  retreat, and i think it is in the many moments in which people show themselves  in the beauty of their own humanity.
so we need to take control of our imagination and use it for our well-being."
research like this when joined together with everything else  provides the raw data to put together to develop a congruent understanding of  everything.
an observation leads you to a theory, and you test the theory over and over again.
we all do imagery -- but in our own way.
p. 359: m: "i don't understand that.
one day, while your crew was filming here,  we were reading our poetry to each other, and the cameraman couldn't go on.
there are no secrets.
a student is a learner on a  regular basis, but a disciple is committed to the practice and teaching of t'ai  chi.
we need to let go, to throw away everything that isn't us in order  to be more whole.
" l: "i'm profoundly emphatic about that.
healing is also the leading forth of wholeness in people.
it  goes beyond any one chemical.
" l: "i don't know, but i think what is clearly true is that because  they didn't have all the technologies, they paid attention to what they had.
another important distinction is that between disease and illness.
today he runs an entire department trained in both disciplines and consults on cases where western medicine has met its limits.
we all want somebody to take away our pain.
we don't want everybody to leave here at the end of the week doing imagery, or eating a vegetarian diet, or doing yoga, or anything else.
but these issues are critical to a science of religion and must be  dealt with by it.
every touch has been a  touch for a procedure.
all doctors feel a very great satisfaction in being able to do that.
out of that trust we can begin to pay attention to our own wounds and to each other's wounds -- and to heal and be healed.
one cannot say enough good things about nurturing touch in all  its forms.
nobody knows the answer  to that yet, because that hasn't been adequately studied." response:
" response: very likely, and in the case of japan i would guess that the  japanese culture in the form of meditation and similar practices provides a way  to deal with these emotions in a relatively healthy way.
a woman patient with cardiorespiratory disease came to him for treatment, and he thought it was impolite to massage the breast of a woman, so he did an external chi gong treatment at her breast.
and, that view is not only internally consistent, but all  parts of it are congruent with external reality as it is known.
and when we started writing poetry together as a group, people's first response was that they didn't know what was true for them.
many people with cancer will tell us that they're often touched as  if they were a piece of meat.
they do not know how to find contentment within.
" e: "this is to say that chinese medicine and western medicine combined is better than either of the two alone.
chinese medicine  stresses the human capability to resist disease.
healing and the mind, bill moyers, doubleday, new york, 1950.
the surgery fixed you."
i  wonder whether acupuncture and massage could help people in america with  low-back pain get back to work and feel better?" "but to answer any of these questions, there has to be a marriage of  chinese medicine and western medicine.
most likely chi is all suggestion.
also, the experiences and insights that resulted from her own health problems are very useful.
but they're searching for something, and they seem to know that the mind has something to do with health.
p. 293: m: "how many years did you train in order to do this advanced  chi gong?
so i think that large elements of culture enter into what is a healthy response to these situations.
p. 356: m: "do you really believe there is a will to live?
many of the dreams were terrible nightmares filled with anxiety and fear  and loss.
but you know,  extending life isn't the highest goal, because people can live miserable lives  for long, long periods of time.
every touch has been a touch for a procedure.
plus, "new age" attitudes take ideas that have practically no science to support them and treat them as of higher value than procedures with years of study and supporting empirical data behind them.
and a science of religion would stress both.
yoga's just a word for a packaging of those things that came together and were refined thousands of years ago in india.
people are called upon to edit  themselves.
but the second patient is different.
is illness caused by hidden forces that are out of balance?
in  one case, the woman told me that she came away from that experience with an  awareness that the purpose of life was not about being a doctor or a mother or  creative or smart or rich, but to grow in wisdom and to learn to love better.
" m: "so when you were diagnosing these patients, what did you learn from the pulse?
but what has been lost in that is the human experience of illness, which the ancient traditions of medicine addressed.
" m: "but we are beginning to admit the possibility of a mind/body  connection in our own western medicine.
healing is also the leading forth of wholeness in  people.
p. 300: wang: "the chinese believe that before there was a heaven and an earth there was a chaos.
you weren't born with your beliefs.
and the goal of a wise community is to find ways that lead to  healing in all areas.
but the study showed that the women who had the worst nightmares had  the easiest deliveries." response:
" m: "so if i feel deep and unrelieved fear over the diagnosis of cancer, that's who i am, and i need to express that fear.
p. 299: m: "somewhere along the way, we divided mind and body: they became opposites.
" m: "but we are beginning to admit the possibility of a mind/body connection in our own western medicine.
m: "what do they have to do with the mind and the body?
and yet, touch is the oldest way of healing.
an excess of joy will do harm to the heart, anger will do harm to the liver, melancholy to the kidney, brooding and sorrow to the spleen, and fear and shock to the kidney.
i was fifteen when i first became ill -- and after several operations, i don't have most of my intestine anymore.
i think for the last thousand years chinese doctors have done that.
" m: "you're saying these people still see human beings as we were  before western knowledge broke us up into compartments, and separated the study  of health into medicine and psychology and religion."
so we started writing that sort of poetry here as a way of helping people listen to the part of themselves that knows what's true for them and speak that in a simple and real way."
but sometimes the language  gets in the way.
and they're very powerful.
so when they say 'find this ball at the dan tian point,' they are talking about a ball of energy which exists where chi begins in the human body.
it is very likely that chinese medicine has a deeper insight than western  medicine on this issue.
m: "i wonder if that chi -- which no one has ever seen, or measured, or put in a vial, or held under a microscope to examine -- is anything like adrenaline?" e: "i think the chinese would say it's much much more than that.
but even if you  practice for only three months, you would see results."
as almost every american knows, sometimes the technologies of  mainstream medicine are applied with enormous compassion, and at other times  the technologies drive what's happening in a way that forgets what the  integrity of the human being is.
but expressing the feeling or emotion that's going on for you right now clears the way for what may be next.
a lot of his images are from his daily experiences, and they're very powerful.
" e: "the whole chinese medical system is based on the notion that the  way you relate to other people, the way you think, and your emotions govern  your health and illness -- what kind of life you'll have and what kind of death  you'll have." m: "why do the chinese grasp that in a way we don't?
when you're able to express the fear and pain and the sorrow  and the anger, then there's room for the lightness and the joy as well.
i don't think it's really being touched with indifference when they go to hospitals.
once a man came to my office who had the same disease i have.
chinese culture has grown out of  philosophical thinking: from two, there is bound to be three.
the  words 'quality of life' are not adequate to describe the shifts that many  people experience here in terms of their relationship with the cancer.
" m: "have you learned anything from your experience, or your own illness, or from the retreat, about who gets sick and who doesn't?
the words 'quality of life' are not adequate to describe the shifts that many people experience here in terms of their relationship with the cancer.
in all those places you find some combination of ways of quieting the mind, and of going inward.
it was like the color of an egg yolk.
in the west, we separate religion and medicine.
achieving a sflihm should  be that individual's goal.
it goes beyond any one chemical.
in the west, most medicine is defined from the point that somebody gets sick.
i had that experience that so many people come here with, that the whole world has shifted and that they're seeing the world in a new way.
what they brought has been excluded from western medicine and must be brought back within the context of a science of religion.
somebody has symptoms, or we find an abnormal  laboratory test.
yet another is to refresh.
if they need an operation,  they'll make sure to find a western doctor, whereas for chronic diseases  they'll prefer chinese medicine.
he served as special consultant to the office of technology assessment of the u.s. congress for the 1991 reportunconventional cancer treatments."
and at this point in time, society's focus needs to be on  achieving a more complete understanding of cancer in all its aspects so that a  cure is produced that we understand.
providing guidelines and  organization to integrate and focus all these facets so the interested person  can achieve clarity and effectiveness is a core challenge for a science of  religion.
p. 358: m: "we know of many angry people who live and many cheerful  people who die.
now that does not mean there aren't case histories of spontaneous remissions.
there's almost a tyranny of the emotions now where people are afraid to  feel their feelings because they think that if they feel certain 'negative'  emotions, their cancer will get worse.
" l: "it's the difference between how you feel going through this experience of cancer and what the biopsy slide looks like to the physician.
science often lags behind popular experience.
but if i had had only the surgery and the medications, i would have been an invalid.
he was trained in western  science and ran the clinical laboratories in a prominent shanghai hospital.
'illness is the experience of living through the disease....
many people initially experience their strength through anger -- just as i did.
m: "were you skeptical of it at first?" lu: "i didn't believe it at that time because i had been educated  systematically in medicine.
you know, once a year we invite professionals who work with cancer to come to commonweal for a little r & r. while they're here, they often talk with each other about the things they really don't understand, even though they've spent years working in this field.
write it down as simply as you can, and then we'll read it  to each other.'" "my sense is that creativity and healing are very close to each  other, in some way that i really could not say too much more about.
it affects our immune system, and our strength, and our optimism.
i'd walk into these rooms, and i would feel whether or not the person was angry.
when i was working in hospitals, they used to send me around to visit people with ileostomies, because i have an ileostomy, and it helps people to meet somebody else who is living with an ileostomy, when they've just had this surgery.
and these procedures utilized at commonweal do obviously have  great benefit.
for example, perhaps my childhood taught me that in order to survive i had to become voiceless and invisible so that my alcoholic mother never noticed me.
this is a unique opportunity to advance understanding  of how the universe really is.
r: "healing is different from curing, you know.
everything was very high-tech.
and these are the kind of things that must be tested to see first
so we started writing that sort of poetry here as  a way of helping people listen to the part of themselves that knows what's true  for them and speak that in a simple and real way."
i wonder whether acupuncture and massage could help people in america with low-back pain get back to work and feel better?" "but to answer any of these questions, there has to be a marriage of chinese medicine and western medicine.
" e: "yes, if we apply what we know about designing controlled experiments, then someday we can answer that question.
it comes directly out of our experience of life: it's 'i'm confused,' or 'i'm scared,' or 'there's nothing happening inside.'
and this distinction is important to recognize because we  normally focus so completely on being cured that we forget that death is  inevitable, only the when is in doubt, and it is the quality of our living  regardless of the circumstances that is the prime issue.
probably all of these things are the product of a cultural myth.
they don't know about control groups, or  randomization and statistics any more than western-style physicians know about  chi.
there's a lot that is mysterious here.
" m: "but my expectations, my fears, and my beliefs are all part of me.
let me speak to the  experience first, because that's what we work with here.
the difference is that science produces some falsifiable statements,  chinese medicine does not.
almost without exception, the shamans were people who had gone through a life-threatening illness and recovered.
contact: arthur jackson go on to chapter twenty-one go to introduction/contents volume ii go to home page
" m: "you're saying these people still see human beings as we were before western knowledge broke us up into compartments, and separated the study of health into medicine and psychology and religion."
healing comes from inner resources.
i became not just his student, but his disciple.
he was as human and as touched and as vulnerable as anybody there.
of course you want to live  as long as you can, but don't you want to live well?
i can trust another person only if i can sense that they, too, have  woundedness, have pain, have fear.
they say that the sense of isolation, of being separated from people who are well, is as painful as chemotherapy, as cancer itself.
" xie: "one patient doesn't have a special emotional problem -- his ulcer had something to do with years of irregular diet.
" response: i can't agree that growing in wisdom and learning to love better  is all.
" e: "yes, i think people in the west are beginning to pay much more attention to the way they live, the way they eat, and the way they think.
the different kinds of imagery and its proper use -- recognition of how it can produce negative effects as well as positive effects -- is one.
i've  just invited a lot of people into it, to be there with me.
western medicine looks to the germ as the cause of disease, and has overlooked why this body at this time has succumbed to the germ after successfully resisting it for years.
but klaus decided to do an experiment  in which half the babies in the nursery would be treated as usual, and the  other half would be touched for fifteen minutes every few hours.
it's not a  cure-all.
if i have an illness that you can treat, i expect you as a doctor to extend my life.
that's why this is such an exciting field.
" m: "i've seen that.
we should place it in its proper position -- not hold it too high or too low." response: one of the best ways to recognize when suggestion is a key factor in some phenomena is to change various components and see if the effect changes.
i have enormous respect for biomedicine, and i see it as the great contribution of modern science to the treatment of disease.
" m: "i understand you, but at the same time i don't want to throw away  more years.
as we do retreat after retreat, we discover that all our cherished beliefs get taken from us by the experience itself.
taoism in fact guided the lives of  the peasants of china as well as the rest of society.
"you know, touching is a very old way of healing.
and this distinction is important to recognize because we normally focus so completely on being cured that we forget that death is inevitable, only the when is in doubt, and it is the quality of our living regardless of the circumstances that is the prime issue.
one has to do with the science of it, and the other has to do with the experience.
" p. 353: r: "i once read a dissertation about the dreams of pregnant women.
in one of  these case, western doctors and chinese doctors differed in their  diagnosis."
" e: "yes, if we apply what we know about designing controlled  experiments, then someday we can answer that question.
the patient sitting before me brings with him or her not only chemistry, but also family, relationships, emotions, and character.
driving down a highway at night, just looking at the fog -- moment by moment, life was precious.
" xie: "no, i don't think so." response:
they have meridians and channels of energy.
certainly, the chinese  culture has many ideas and discoveries that a science of religion must  consider.
our major task then was to train patients to do chi gong themselves.
you have a chance to step back from it and say, 'ah, yes, i have  that feeling, but that is not me.
but  what has been lost in that is the human experience of illness, which the  ancient traditions of medicine addressed.
if a  child gets hurt, what does the mother do?
the reason china is often called 'the middle kingdom' is because it has found this truth of the tao.
for this reason, when they reach fifty, they begin to  deteriorate.'
"if you put the focus on health instead of disease, you can begin to  understand the taoist approach.
throwing out all the  erroneous, destructive, misleading ideas that get in our way and prevent us  from growing is necessary.
it affects our immune system, and  our strength, and our optimism.
" "this idea grows directly out of the basic theory of the body -- that the body is made up of channels through which the energy flows, and that this energy has to be in balance.
if the data supports the conclusions and second if it does, why it does.
but to them, the way you lived your life and your physical health were inseparable.
but there are limits to what technology can do.
but despite what happens here, they leave with  the same cancer they had when they came.
however, somewhere in all these ideas there may be a gem that  is of crucial importance if we are to understand why people get sick and how  best to keep them well.
the difference is that science produces some falsifiable statements, chinese medicine does not.
to open the body through surgery or autopsy would be to deface the gift of one's ancestors.
in the last hundred  years we've gone from that to a lot more sophisticated science.
" m: "what does chinese medicine tell you about health and medicine that western medicine can't" xie: "in chinese medicine the mind and emotions are closely related to health and disease.
chairman mao used to say that chinese medicine and western medicine should be combined.
" response: sounds like it would be accurate to say what all the experts are saying, we don't yet understand the underlying factors and mechanisms that cause cancer and are involved in its cure.
" "but let me go back to the touching issue for a minute.
and if we don't, then i  think the skeptical in the west have every right to say, 'we don't believe  this.
i  think one of the truly great tasks of our time is to make these technologies  compassionate.
to attempt to live in a blissful cocoon would probably prevent one from becoming a wise person.
but the ability to do this requires a foundation of sufficient joy and pleasure so that learning is possible.
sometimes people heal physically, and they don't heal emotionally, or  mentally, or spiritually.
the first patient showed a lack  of chi, while the second has excessive chi because of chi blockage in his  liver.
it may be that psychological factors in an individual life contribute to the multifactorial mix that caused the emergence of a cancer, but to say that you caused your illness because of some set of events or some way that you related to the world ignores all the other things over which you had absolutely no control.
it is elusive when you want to define it.
i would say melancholy, brooding and sorrow are all one feeling state (made up of the three named intensity levels: sadness/pensiveness/grief on plutchik's model).
sticking needles into the body is obviously a physical intervention to westerners, but not to the chinese.
i think, ultimately,  being a human being is a very lonely thing.
some researchers have suggested that shamanism touched some bedrock of human  experience and that the reason it's so similar in different places is that  people came to the same conclusions about what was helpful.
but what about the other side?
even a young man cannot beat me in a t'ai  chi martial arts competition.
therefore, three emotion states are not considered (anticipation, adoration, and disgust).
that has always been the highest goal of living in all the taoist and  confucian traditions.
psychological factors are especially important in the self-imposed exercises.
" m: "what does chinese medicine tell you about health and medicine  that western medicine can't" xie: "in chinese medicine the mind and emotions are closely related  to health and disease.
each incubator was surrounded by shifts of people and millions of dollars worth of equipment.
then it began to change, becoming  left-right, bright-dark, up-down, male-female, yin-yang -- the pairs of  opposites.
xie says he became profoundly interested and chose to make his life work the integration of both systems.
and when we started writing poetry together as a group, people's  first response was that they didn't know what was true for them.
after graduation i went to the chi gong research laboratory.
we have to learn how  to train people so that they can do this work with their hearts wide open.
" response: these are interesting beliefs, but they have very little to do with how the universe really works.
" p. 353: r: "i once read a dissertation about the dreams of pregnant  women.
if you want to learn chinese medicine, you have to read the i ching, the book of changes, which explains chinese dialectical thinking.
so the recovery of that wisdom and compassion, both on the part of  the physician or the healer and on the part of the person with the illness, is  one of the most important things we can do in medicine.
i can only say that it is a  t'ai chi state, a state of harmony.
payments stopped when sickness  began.
" "from its very beginning two thousand years ago, chinese medicine  said that what goes on in our minds influences our health.
why do you ask people to imagine, to visualize?" r: "well, you know, the visual is only one way in which we imagine.
so he is trained in all the techniques we've talked about -- acupuncture, herbs, massage, taking the pulse, looking at the tongue.
" xie: "one patient doesn't have a special emotional problem -- his  ulcer had something to do with years of irregular diet.
and by the way, it's very common for cancer patients to say to  themselves, 'if i recover from this cancer, i want to devote the rest of my  life to helping other people.'
" e: "you know, i wonder about whether herbs could help reduce side effects for patients getting chemotherapy for cancer, or lessen the effects of steroids for patients with ulcerative colitis?
p. 308: m: "although traditional chinese medicine feels alien to  westerners like me, i can see that it may have something to offer our practice  of medicine.
" m: "and that effects your body?
and since that's the basis of their culture, it spills  over into their medicine.
awarded a macarthur  prize fellowship in 1983, dr. lerner is a fellow of the fetzer institute and a  policy fellow of the institute of health policy studies at the school of  medicine, university of california, san francisco.
" response: moyers has focused very well in the above discussion that there are really two separate issues.
you need to control an experiment.
an excess of joy will do harm to the heart,  anger will do harm to the liver, melancholy to the kidney, brooding and sorrow  to the spleen, and fear and shock to the kidney.
in the west, most medicine is defined from the  point that somebody gets sick.
chris, the woman you were talking to, said that  cancer has ultimately healed her sense of loneliness.
" m: "but you know, if i had come to you in your life as a medical doctor, and you had told me i had cancer, i think the greatest gift you could have given me would have been to cure me.
they were 'men of sorrows and acquainted with grief,' in the words of the christian tradition.
i'm very suspicious of  people who say, 'oh, well, you know, what's a breast?'
p. 253: "as we see in the park [the same park as above], they [chinese doctors] also teach their patients to master the flow of energy in their own bodies through combined mental and physical practice.
although philosophy and religion have a great deal in  common and one can shade into the other, philosophy is more nearly an  intellectual pursuit while religion guides day-to-day living particularly for  the common individual, the bulk of society.
years ago,  when i was associate director of the pediatric clinics at the stanford medical  school, one of my colleagues, marshall klaus, did a study which at the time was  extremely innovative.
people hear 'yoga,' and they think of some strange foreign  practice.
chinese massage is designed to release the flow of  chi." response: chi, or not chi, massage is a powerful tool to help anyone live a  better life.
in this culture we are trained to suppress a lot of who we are in terms of our work, or our families, or whatever else we do, so that the opportunity to explore who we are is a very important aspect of authenticity.
for some acute diseases, such as viral infections, western doctors and medication do not seem to provide a cure -- but chinese medicine offers some help.
if you want to learn chinese medicine,  you have to read the i ching, the book of changes, which explains chinese  dialectical thinking.
" "t'ai chi works for everybody.
doing progressive deep relaxation, tensing the muscles and than sequentially relaxing them, focusing on the breathing, and breathing deeply, watching the breathing, meditation -- those things tend to have a deeply relaxing effect.
a certain percent of the people in my practice are doctors who are burned out.
they also had thinner lesions than the people who did not express their feelings.
but powerful things happen in the midst of that loneliness.