you may not run a pharmacy, but i am quite sure you have a financial interest in the credibility of this ludicrous industry.
to comment, sign in or sign up.
despite this review supporting the position of acupuncture in this debate, i feel further study is needed to rule out for the same reasons as suggested by the authors.
medical researcher logged in via email @rocketmail.com score: +5 insightful + unconstructive - there are "alternative medicines" that have sound scientific bases and evidence but never emerge out of that category either because the evidence have not found their way into western medical literature or underwent the grossly expensive "gold standard" controlled studies.
of those that are (aids patients, transplant recipients), at least in aids patients chemotherapy for colorectal cancer is not appreciably more adverse than with people with a normal immune system.
that's not right either, really should be "i duped someone into paying me to stand around and spout nonsense."
chinese medicine practitioner, acupuncturist, doctor of alternative medicine and advanced care paramedic logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - i meant to note of course that all the conditions that i mentioned are not treated successfully by western medicine are treated extremely well by cam public hospital clinician logged in via email @healthcaresd.com score: insightful + unconstructive - mr seletto - what do you mean by "cam"?
if treatment of cancer was offered by a cam practitioner, that is, in my opinion unethical.
herbal medicines with efficacy have exactly the same types…show full comment
the list is long, as is inappropriate surgical procedure going back a hundred years.
+1 insightful + unconstructive - the rest of the abstract reads "however, this could be attributed to placebo effect and the small number of trials included in the review.
life and nutrition go hand in hand with the bodys balance and it should all be taken into account.
you have to credit our authors and partner institutions in the byline.
are you talking bout chemotherapy drugs?
i am living proof 18 years later that cam works.
how is this even allowed?
postdoctoral researcher, griffith university logged in via email @griffith.edu.au score: +2 insightful + unconstructive -
chiropractic and vertebral subluxation, seriously?
postdoctoral researcher, griffith university logged in via email @griffith.edu.au score: insightful + unconstructive - this makes no sense leanne.
because the surgical side of what we now know as modern medicine chased the profit in hospitals and excluded the then herbalist or drug maker, forming what we now know as corporate pharmaceuticals in the late 1920s.
in any case, natural therapies (herbs, nutriiton, etc) is not 'alternative' medicine - it was the original medicine.
nurse educator logged in via email @y7mail.com
the guidelines allow the use of such medicines until high-level evidence, that would allow for high-level claims, is available.
logged in via linkedin score: insightful + unconstructive - "synthetic immunity?
http://goo.gl/kplrn postdoctoral researcher, griffith university logged in via email @griffith.edu.au score: +2 insightful + unconstructive - angela, i'm sorry to say that you are one of the very reasons why naturopathy should not be taught in universities - you linked us to a website that is anti-vaccination, yet apparently you are a "university trained naturopath".
logged in via twitter score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - angela you gave us all the right link, it's the site content that is inappropriate.
so should we turn our back on the consumer-driven trend toward holistic and integrative healthcare, or should we work together to understand, research and teach different principles, practices and evidence to improve health outcomes for customers and patients?
aspirin is now being shown as the miracle drug of the next century, it's uses increase yearly.
in fact, i became a naturopath after a naturopath helped me heal endometriosis when doctors could not.
you are free to republish this article, as long as you follow some simple guidelines, which are summarised here: the full article is available here as html.
postdoctoral researcher, griffith university logged in via email @griffith.edu.au score: +8 insightful +
look carefully at the way that double blind placebo controlled studies are designed, and as a traditional chinese medicine researcher, you'll have a case to dismiss them because these studies fail to account for the subtle differences in say, the different cold syndromes (not all colds are the same).
starting by teaching new practitioners?
the numerous variety of multiple drug and chemical interactions cannot be tested, and yet are posited as safe.
however i also feel extremely frustrated when i see people suffering from chronic or acute illnesses such as sequel to cva, endometriosis, infertility, fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue, pain from injury, chronic headaches, etc, for which they have not been able to get relief from using the treatments currently available to western medicine.
logged in via twitter score: insightful + unconstructive - angela, any of us can make typos.
logged in via facebook score: +14 insightful + unconstructive - i am constantly confused by the rationale behind this debate.
preparations…show full comment lettia wrote "natural therapies use the whole plant (which these companies cannot patent and make money from) which as you have said contain hundreds of active constituents in small amounts that work synergisticaly."
still, it's important not to throw the baby out with the bathwater: studying cam, and exposing the myths is better than ignoring it.
to make material edits, pleasecontact us you can run the first few lines of the article only, if you say:  “read the full article atthe conversation” with a link back to the  article page on our site.
real scientists and medical professionals have rigor and validity to their courses.
for a general outline of why acupucture shouldn't be taken seriously see: http://theness.com/neurologicablog/index.php/why-i-am-skeptical-of-acupuncture/ logged in via facebook score: +3 insightful + unconstructive -
the full article is available here as html.
the reason we practice medicine in whatever form or research in medically related fields… i would like to congratulate evelin on a well written and researched article.
cam courses are not just homeopathy, they also cover nutrition and herbal medicine, two modalities with a growing body of evidence.
the shortage of pharmacists' knowledge about cam is certainly a major concern!
ignoring this, i believe,risks doctors becoming medical dinosaurs of a foregone era.
it should never be a part of a university course - except where it is used as an example of the dangers of non-evidence based treatments.
i do not do homeopathy.
how about pushing to get more research
if we are in it for the right reason, then we should all be working together.
that doesn't mean we stop researching senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score:
or do they do it all for free? "..which as you have said contain hundreds of active constituents in small amounts that work synergisticaly."
in the context of this article the statement really should be "i, taylor arbour, believe your spouted nonsense is worthy of a degree in bs."
to be able to do that, health professionals need to be  knowledgeable, at least, about the principle, paradigm and available evidence  for all complementary medicines, includinghomeopathic and traditional medicines.
therefore, according to occam's razor, the most simple explanation is that any minor positive effect can be attributed to a combination of biases and the placebo effect.
do you consider all modalities that claim ot provide health care as equally valid, just because their proponents say they are?
actually, no they don't, they usually use one part of the plant and generally (excluding traditional chinese medicine, which does very little processing), the plant material is processed significantly.
chinese medicine practitioner, acupuncturist, doctor of alternative medicine and advanced care paramedic logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - wellness ed!
thanks, john nicol logged in via facebook score: +1 insightful + unconstructive -
cam is a term for many different practices and medicines and there’s scientific evidence for a number of them.
logged in via facebook score: +2 insightful + unconstructive - i love how a senior lecturer at a university can't even avoid making fallacious arguments from popularity and antiquity.
postdoctoral researcher, griffith university logged in via email @griffith.edu.au score: insightful + unconstructive - md or phd?
3 february 2012, 1.54pm aest why universities should teach alternative medicine most readers would know of the current debate about universities teaching  complementary and alternative medicine (cam).
postdoctoral researcher, griffith university logged in via email @griffith.edu.au score: insightful + unconstructive - i did my phd in analytical chemistry (currently being examined).
any arguments around popularity, widely accepted or that it is already subsidized through medicare are beside the point.
the reason we practice medicine in whatever form or research in medically related fields, should be to relieve human suffering by providing relief of disease and its symptoms by using a method that is most effective, least invasive, most humane, cost effective and producing the least unwanted side effects.
there is definitely a place for modern medicine, maybe you need to be not so one eyed and read what people actually write.
logged in via twitter score: +2 insightful + unconstructive - mischievous, angela?
i found this and many articles on cam that many reading here would find inappropriate because they would fall outside their personal value systems.
what’s more, there’s a medicare rebate available for acupuncture if it’s part of a doctor’s examination.
nevertheless, it is actually very scientific, and, within its own body of knowledge, homeopathic remedies have been extensively tested and proven.
the pills you buy in the wholefood shops are not raw plant material.
no one ever says the bleeding obvious about medicine and medical practices.
it is commonly used in some of both western and eastern countries in conjunction with contemporary western types of health care, especially perhaps in uk, germany, and india, and has the advantage of being relatively cheap for those with little money to afford 'extra' health care.
hmm must be some really good stuff on that database.
professor phelps alluded to this study, but professor dwyer did not respond.
this is nothing but fluff and fads.
preparations of the plant artemisia annua are effective in treating malaria, but the active ingredient artemisinin can vary wildly from preparation to preparation, meaning some preparations will be ineffective and some will have far more side effects (this is true of all herbal preparations that actually do something, like preparations of st. johns wort).
in the best case (most cases) the treatment will be completely ineffective and you will have just done your money.
then it becomes a pharmaceutical, but it's available to everyone, the dose is known, and it is free from other plant impurities that might impede the effect or cause other harmful effects.
to say cam is on the same level as their degrees is an insult to every professional in the industry.
i referred to it as belief in magic in one of my comments here, because that is essentially what it boils down to.
yet you sit there and criticise the very system that has saved countless lives.
you don't walk out of pathophysiology or neuroscience and into nutrition and forget everything you learnt in the other two because someone talks about historical evidence in nutritional practice.
there is plenty of proof in regards to the herbs & supplements that i use, but my clients ar my living proof.
cam and the reasons it's almost all both medically useless and unethical ( http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1467-8519.2010.01876.x/abstract ) - sure.
i rarely need a doctor, as i look after myself through proper diet and not pumping it full of crap (alcohol, drugs, junk food, cigarettes) that society puts out there and convinces people to buy.
i am irritated by the presence of homeopathy 'remedies' in pharmacies and always make a point of berating the staff.
climate and agronomic extension at department of agriculture and food - western australia score: +4 insightful + unconstructive
universities should be teaching the truth about cam and not pandering to indulged fantasies.
same as the patterns i've seen over the years, of fad diagnoses: -in the 80s it was candida -in
in this way, he could bring his brilliance in allopathic medicine to the table to promote the safe use and a greater undertanding of cam which he's unlikely to stamp out.
research and policy analyst (education) logged in via email @gmail.com score: +6 insightful + unconstructive - as someone who has fibromyalgia, i am constantly annoyed at the amount of pseudoscience crap that is constantly being pushed at sufferers claiming to be a cure all.
in order to research a subject, there must be an understanding of that subject at a university level.
tens of thousands die from over the counter drugs every year!
maybe they could try some acupuncture to help them calm their disquieted psyches ;) climate and agronomic extension at department of agriculture and food - western australia score: insightful + unconstructive - i think you mean "hit a meridian line".
the first controlled trial testing the homeopathic treatment of patients with fibromyalgia was an impressive and sophisticated double-blind "crossover" trial that was published in the prestigious british medical journal (fisher et al, 1989).
just what they needed, i suppose.
they also provide an alternative toxicology database which enables users to access information on the harmful properties of drugs, chemicals, vaccines, etc., which is not readily available elsewhere.
where are the researchers coming from if not university training?
software developer logged in via email @donncha.com score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - "people in other "non-traditional" countries - russia, china, even germany enjoy more alternative therapies than the pharma-dominated countries like ours.
postdoctoral researcher, griffith university logged in via email @griffith.edu.au score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - ok angela, we got the link - for the third time.
universities and colleges that provid cam courses are of very high quality and are not for the faint hearted
all good in the name of good science, right lads?
natural health business owner logged in via email @hotmail.com score: +4 insightful + unconstructive - i am not a homeopath but have found that many of my clients use it as they have found that conventional western medicine does not work for them.
however, vitamins and such have been taken over by cam but used in non-standard ways.
as cam practitioners, we do not treat a disease label.
there’s clinical evidence for acupuncture as effective treatment for various conditions, includingmigraines, tension-type headaches and chronic low-back pain.
and they are none the worse for it."
the metal needle itself may used possible because metal is a good conductor of electrical current.
would they still be alive if not for modern medicine - probably not.
nobody doubts that concentrated western drugs or invasive surgery is nneded and appropropriate when someone needs instant pain relief or acute life saving treatment (e.g. anaphylaxis, ami or major trauma).
many of the claims about cam are mere anecdote or ideology.
the things that have worked have been incorporated into the wider field of medicine, e.g. massage in physiotherapy.
that link i gave was from www.greenmedinfo.com, all i did was shorten it via google shortner.
i'm sure that day one of cam courses will be to memorise harry potter and make sure they have brought their wand.
because what has been obvious to a lot of people is that this falls well short of science ,despite cam's popularity and the positive results that some people have.
as drug interactions with herbal medicines can be an important source of adverse reaction.
postdoctoral researcher, griffith university logged in via email @griffith.edu.au score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - i'm sorry marie, but you are not qualified enough to be giving health advice.
univeristy trained naturopath, law student une logged in via email @hotmail.com score: insightful + unconstructive - fsm and some of the people here would do very well to spend 5 minutes over at greenmedinfo.org - a repository of evidence based research through which the potential or actual therapeutic value of vitamins, minerals, herbs and foods can be determined.
and this is the very reason why integrative medicine is so sought after, successful, increasingly being taught around the world and used by some 70% of australians.
perhaps natural therapies is too much of a threat, because it works so well.
there are all levels of research being published, including, my favourite, ghost written studies supporting anti-depressant use in children based on studies that did not occur.
the active principles of the herbal medicines st. johns wort, mua huang, kava, valerian, ginko etc.
pharmacist/ cam therapist & educator logged in via email @hotmail.com score: +6 insightful + unconstructive - dear john nicol, i'm sorry to inform you that i am not a pharmacy owner so i can dispel your incorrect assumption that, to quote, "pharmacists such as farida have a very deep vested interest in the promotion of the cheaply produced (no costly research there) alternative medicines most of which rely totally on anecdotal evidence that they "might" be effective in "some cases" of mroning sickness, headaches, back pain and liver cancer.
firstly, how does mri show changes in "brain chemistry"?
that scam makes anything produced by so-called "big pharma" pale inito insignificance.
how many will this require?
they work in synergy!
this indicates a basic ignorance of physiology.
read the original  article.
as always in this debate, fsm supporters avoid commenting on herbal and nutritional treatments.
this is not a fair question.
many universities research cam to generate an evidence base or prove their lack of efficacy.
so why support research but exclude teaching of cam from universities?
this is why pure preparations of artemisin are used.
logged in via email @bigpond.com score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - the failure to properly declare pecuniary interest by the writer of the original article was a serious error.
chinese medicine practitioner, acupuncturist, doctor of alternative medicine and advanced care paramedic logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - certainly william, i have the qualification of medical doctor in alternative medicine through post.grad studies with the world health organization.
the correct link is www.greenmedinfo.com.
as william states, universities teaching this stuff are doing a disservice to the public by suggesting legitimacy and also in the longer term a disservice to the students who waste their fees on the courses.
or failing to bring something in the amazon to full potential early because of the 1920s conservative surgical mindset?
the course addresses the shortage of cam knowledge among practicing australian pharmacists as identified in a recent pharmacy guild-funded project, whichsurveyed australian pharmacists nationally.
logged in via facebook score: insightful + unconstructive - absolutely graeme.
however cam is already widely accepted by australians generally, and panic is definitely unwarranted, given the generally very safe track record of cam treatments.
otherwise medicine should be removed from university on the back of the actions of jayant patel.
for example st. johns wort, although an effective anti-depressant*, can cause failure of contraceptive cover, anti-hiv therapy and ant-rejection drugs, some of these interactions are potentially fatal.
aren’t we obliged to translate our research results into practice –
could you please explain a couple of things?
score: insightful + unconstructive - would 'the world's safest, time-tested, inexpensive and most efficacious medicines (nutrient, herbal, mineral and otherwise natural therapies' include bile harvested from bears?
the entire supposition that scientists only gain knowledge from their degree is laughable.
retired architect logged in via email @gmail.com score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - very reasonable point of view.
logged in via facebook score: +4 insightful + unconstructive - there appears to be doubt as to the existence of a substantial body of clinical research supporting acupuncture in disease prevention and treatment.
i understand that there is some substance to the manilupative therapies (even if not by the theories they expound), and clearly some herbs contain therapeutic substances (in an impure and uncontrolled form) but what about the infinite dilution of homeopathy?
at griffith university, evidence-based cam education is integrated throughout the whole pharmacy curriculum.
and the issues of dispensing errors overprescribing and so on are exactly the same.
you say: "perhaps natural therapies is too much of a threat, because it works so well.." i say: prove it.
sorry, soothed implies that something actually happened, that isn't likely.
" we assessing the balance of evidence for acupuncture you can't cherry-pick three sources, when 'thousands of acupuncture studies have been done over the last several decades, with conflicting results.
http://nccam.nih.gov/research/results/spotlight/010112.htm 3) "sham acupuncture" is not analogous to placebo.
research shows positive association between acupuncture meridians and lower electrical impedance and higher capacitance.
yes, you say prove it on one hand but don't study at university on the other hand.
digital video officer logged in via email @museum.vic.gov.au score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - sorry, but homeopathic medicine is an oxymoron.
the difficulties experienced in designing trials in the more controversial therapies (such as acupuncture and homeopathy) should stimulate scientific expansion, not the "this square peg doesn't fit the round hole so i quit" mentality that is being presented by some current scientists.
acupuncture mechanism is actually highly plausible.
i have never heard of it before ......"
many concepts and theories are ridiculed in their early stages of research despite being sound after long investigation (as anyone who has followed alzheimer's research will tell you for example).
fsm rightly says that rigorous academic standards and evidence for scientific conclusions and health-care practices are of the essence and should be the basis of all university teaching.
logged in via linkedin score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - don't teach it unless it works.
our goal is to ensure the content is not compromised in any way.
" and thats the point here, these researches / doctors are kicking up a stink about alternative medicine because they are backed or work for the big pharma companies and all they want to do is make money.
but that would cost money and cut into the profit margins.
and they are none the worse for it.
it shouldn't be too much to ask to demand scientific and rational merit to university degrees.
we also offer a specifically designed “short course in integrative  medicine for pharmacists,” which has been accredited for continuous  professional development.
this is why cam practitioners are able to autonomously diagnose, treat and prescribe.
republish you are free to republish this article, as long as you follow some simple  guidelines, which are summarised here: you can’t edit our material unless you have the author’s  express permission or you are adjusting for relative changes in time, location  and editorial style.
of 14 clinical trails using adequate placebo comparison, none showed any benefit for acupuncture.
mua huang (and all ephedra containing herbals) haves been withdrawn because of their tendency to cause stroke and heart attack in people.
as a nutrition & dietetics student, i see how uncritical my fellow students can be and the credibility given to the scam cam industry by teaching it in universities would likely result in health professionals 'converting' to the pseudo-scientific side hook, line, and sinker.
yes, gps do need to improve their handling of chronic illness, but tricking people into wasting time and money on sham treatments does nothing to help those suffering.
the picture highlights research and teaching which must be done in that order, to ensure that what is taught is, as far as possible, is correct.
http://scienceblogs.com/insolence/2008/08/the_largest_randomized_acupuncture_study.php * should the herbal preparation actually have any st. john's wort in it, the product to product and batch to batch variation is enormous.
in order to raise the evidence base for any substance, effective and well designed research must be undertaken.
logged in via facebook score: insightful + unconstructive - i am not excluding them, in fact they're quite indicative of acupuncture research in general - flawed methodologies leading to slightly positive results (which is a well-documented bias in any field of study; for poor quality studies to show a minor positive effect which disappears with higher quality research.
logged in via facebook score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - i am shocked at some of the comments here.
st. johns wort has the same side effect profile as standard ssri's and has serious drug interaction problems.
in australia, complementary medicines are regulated as medicines by the therapeutic goods administration (tga).
one is that scientific research has reached the pinnacle and can no longer discover anything new, in which case we are in trouble because there are many unanswered questions.
that… "there’s clinical evidence for acupuncture as effective treatment for various conditions, including migraines, tension-type headaches and chronic low-back pain.
homeopathy (and many other cam treatments with no solid scientific basis) should be withdrawn from private health rebate schemes, and removed from pharmacies - allowing them leads the public to believe that they are legitimate treatments, which they most certainly are not.
logged in via facebook score: +9 insightful + unconstructive - from the cochrane review - acupuncture and assisted conception -
the 90's it was chronic fatigue -in
the survey found most pharmacists supported undergraduate cam education (76%), and the majority (85%) were interested in additional cam education themselves.
logged in via facebook score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - i am not completely ignoring the benefits of modern medicine at all, there are many great benefits to it, but there are also many dangerous side effects that are ignored.
now, i wonder what created so many benzo addicts with rebound insomnia?
diluting something so much that not a single molecule of the active ingredient remains does not create an effective medicine - it's water.
aromatherapy has problems with sensitisation and allergy.
fsm mentions acupuncture as a therapy it considers pseudo-scientific and argues that it shouldn’t be taught at university.
but when assessing the efficacy of acupuncture, you can't exclude three salient sources just because they don't harmonise with your overall narrative.
after that she was put on natural herbal medicines - not processed chemical crap and a few basic foods removed and she is better than ever.
will it teach its students to think critically enough to stop them using live blood analysis,mora and vega machines,kinesiology,detox foot patches,colonics,the latest fad diets and food fetishes.
acupuncture was thought scientific by the chinese at the same time that used powdered human genitals or tincture of foetus.
public hospital clinician logged in via email @healthcaresd.com score: insightful + unconstructive - rob - would you please link to the studies you are referring to that "validate" acupuncture theory?
on the 1 hand, some say we are not qualified enough - on the other hand, some are trying to make it even more difficult for people to qualify in natural therapies by stopping university courses.
why does he seem to ignore the increasing momentum in this movement and try to destroy it rather than better understand it?
furthermore, breakthroughs in science have come from researchers stepping outside the current rigorous scientific paradigm in order to investigate (helicobacter anyone?
only homopathy has no more side effects than placebo, and that's because its basically distyilled water (or sugar tables), with no therapeutic benefit whatsoever.
fsm mentions acupuncture as a therapy it considers  pseudo-scientific and argues that it shouldn’t be taught at university.
"intranasal light therapy" is one such biophysics-based solution.
pharmacy student (uts) logged in via email @mail.com score: insightful + unconstructive - what's synthetic immunity?
claiming that cam medicines and those who sell them are in accordance with tga guidelines is pretty meaningless as anyone who has followed this issue is aware that tga guidelines for cam are no guarantee of effectiveness and the self-generated info has been shown to be sometimes disingenuous.
medicare rebates are also available with this referral.
acupuncturist logged in via email @hotmail.com score: insightful + unconstructive - looks like you hit a nerve here evelin.
research also suggests that cam education may also teach practitioners greaterself-awareness, improved core competencies (such as evidence-based practice), enhanced cultural competency andpatient-centred care.
logged in via facebook score: +9 insightful + unconstructive - cancer treatment is beyond the scope of practice for cam practitioners, university trained or not.
who's talking emotions?
modern medicine is wonderful, as is complementary and alternative medicine and 80% of doctors wouldn't refer their patients if they didn't also believe so.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - lettia wrote "natural therapies use the whole plant (which these companies cannot patent and make money from) which as you have said contain hundreds of active constituents in small amounts that work synergisticaly."
chinese medicine practitioner, acupuncturist, doctor of alternative medicine and advanced care paramedic logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: +5 insightful + unconstructive - i would like to congratulate evelin on a well written and researched article.
he has been seeing a nautropath for 6 months and is totally off pain killers and slowly improving.
i want my money back!
public hospital clinician logged in via email @healthcaresd.com score: insightful + unconstructive - mr dobson, you say: "research shows positive association between acupuncture meridians and lower electrical impedance and higher capacitance.
don't leap to an unjustified conclusion out of emotive and ideological motivations.
and secondly, could you please link to the evidence that shows the link between acupuncture meridians, impedence, capacitance and clinical effects?
or antagonistically.
these arrogant morons claim that the peer-reviewed evidence gives them the right to oust from universities the world's safest, time-tested, inexpensive and most efficacious medicines (nutrient, herbal, mineral and otherwise natural therapies); and yet, when you provide them a site that houses over 18,000 studies sourced directly from the national library of medicine all they can do is try to discredit the source.
the  guidelines allow the use of such medicines until high-level evidence, that  would allow for high-level claims, is available.
we therefore ask all authors to disclose any potential conflicts of interest before publication.
pharmacist/ cam therapist & educator logged in via email @hotmail.com score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - integrative medicine is the combination of allopathic medicine and cam.
logged in via facebook score: -4 insightful + unconstructive - teach /about/
the scientific basis for these treatments was shown much later.
you need to continue dosing with herbal medicines to keep a therapeutic levels as well.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - "the terrible toxicity of the drugs given to immunologically comprised cancer patients.
a core question not being addressed in this debate is what other institution is better placed to deliver evidence-based knowledge of cam.
and so much for scientific research, for a drug to be passed and sold to the public it only has to be proven in 2 trials, yet a company can conduct as many trials as they like, as long a 2 are effective (so if a drug is effective in 2 out of 100 trials it is still called 'effective', even though its obvious that it really isn't).
in your tittle "univeristy trained naturopath, law student une" i recommend you change the spelling of university.
it is perhaps testament to the publish or perish motive in modern academia that so many are, as you point out, not well controlled.
if cam has been taught at universities for years why have i heard these silly statements on a daily basis?
and even there, as a pharmacist, i'm aware of plenty of short-comings in that area too.
there are three types: 1.
bring on uni studies!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
many studies have indicated some beneficial effect, and many patients find it helpful.
one should be very careful about acupuncture claims for its use in headache and analgesia are far more tenuous that people would expect.
logged in via facebook score: insightful + unconstructive -
logged in via twitter score: +5 insightful + unconstructive - angela - a good reference?
with the article posing questions like these - * can vaccines really co-opt, improve upon, and replace natural immunity with synthetic immunity?
the course addresses the shortage of cam knowledge  among practicing australian pharmacists as identified in a recent pharmacy  guild-funded project, whichsurveyed australian pharmacists nationally.
which is it that you are asking for?
in the worst possible case you will die because the quack advised you to avoid medicine.
current double blimd pacebo trials are fine for herbal medicine, but modern techniques such as mri and pet are validating acupuncture theory.
research into identifying drugs from natural products is an legitimate and evidence…show full comment rachel, you have completely missed the point.
the training also encouraged students to look at and evaluate evidence and make informed decisions in the best interests of their patients.
how many people in your family have high-cholesterol, high blood pressure, diabetes, cancer, bacterial infections, viral infections etc?
i've listened to thousands of people in the course of my career.
the training also encouraged students  to look at and evaluate evidence and make informed decisions in the best  interests of their patients.
our whole society is based on progress like that.
chinese medicine practitioner, acupuncturist, doctor of alternative medicine and advanced care paramedic logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - really michael, you might want to look at the history of anaesthesia, polio vaccines and various other advances of modern medicine.
cam has it's share of quacks, but we both know that there are surgeons and medical staff you wouldn't want near you either.
that's not science - it's dogma.
we found that cam research and education had a moderating effect onstudents' attitudes towards cam.
click here to get a copy of this article to republish.
-yes, and of course, there are never any dispensing errors, over-prescribing, wrong prescribing , drug interactions or mal-practice to speak of- not in the world of real science and real scientists.
aren’t we obliged to translate our research results into practice – starting by teaching new practitioners?
the comment that buying / growing "whole herbs" is best is plain scary --- some of them could be quite poisonous even if the dose is small - and as many have already pointed oput , how do you measure the dose in many of the preparations hawked as cures?
according to the tga’sguidelines general and medium-level claims (such as  the temporary relief of minor self-limiting conditions) for complementary  medicine’s efficacy can be based on certain traditional use evidence.
by all means, research cam.
until complementary and alternative medicine can meet this standard it shouldn't be taught in universities.
a recent comprehensive study in the uk and us has come out very strongly against the claims of benefit from alternative medicine.
about the same as doing nothing 2.
looking after themselves, and encouraging proper diet, exercise and respect for themselves.
public hospital clinician logged in via email @healthcaresd.com score: insightful + unconstructive - lots of people use cigarettes too - should pharmacies also sell them?
i have never heard of it before in all my 5 years of medical science education.
professor phelps alluded to this study, but professor dwyer did not respond…show full comment from the cochrane review - acupuncture and assisted conception -
it pains me to have to say this because i know so many well meaning and caring naturopaths,but this is terribly misguided.
linking research and teaching, universities  are best placed to teach evidence-based cam.tulane publications most readers would know of the current debate about universities teaching  complementary and alternative medicine (cam).
i personally know at least two people who died through being convinced that alternative medicines would cure their cancers and another who followed similar prescriptions to cure pneumonia.
- that for many years methadone was given to heroin addicts with seemingly little or no improvement or possibly be the cause of death taken in combination with street drugs -the terrible toxicity of the drugs given to immunologically comprised cancer patients.
chinese medicine practitioner, acupuncturist, doctor of alternative medicine and advanced care paramedic logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - thank you marie for your response, you are quite right that cam is an individualized treatment to the patients presenting nature, it does not treat disease labels, but to answer john, through predominantly acupuncture with some chinese herbal medications as well as lifestyle and dietary advice most patients with the disease states mentioned expect to see quick and long term results.
even philosophy degrees are still based around logic and reason, not belief and magic.
just because we can test something does not mean we should teach it at an undergraduate level *before the results of the tests are in*.
i rarely…show full comment i am not completely ignoring the benefits of modern medicine at all, there are many great benefits to it, but there are also many dangerous side effects that are ignored.
natural therapies use the whole plant (which these companies cannot patent and make money from) which as you have said contain hundreds of active constituents in small amounts that work synergisticaly.
if i recall rightly, wasn’t ‘the pill’ toted as one of the 'safest' drugs all those years ago?
i would like to see those universities, who are embracing pseudo-science, apply a little more rigour to their science.
the researchers found that there was a significant and…show full comment i am not a homeopath but have found that many of my clients use it as they have found that conventional western medicine does not work for them.
logged in via facebook score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - alternative medicine should receive higher rebates than that of other 'modern medicine'.
our teaching research has shown that  pharmacy students perceive education about cam as a core part of their  professional degree.
acupuncture may have potential harmful effects in early pregnancy and hence clinicians should be cautious when giving advice regarding the use of acupuncture in early pregnancy."
at griffith university, evidence-based cam education is integrated  throughout the whole pharmacy curriculum.
you are prefectly free to grow all your own food, create your own energy for light and power, carry your own water, walk everywhere and only ever speak to people in person.
public hospital clinician logged in via email @healthcaresd.com score: insightful + unconstructive - henry, did you know that some of the biggest german multinationals are homeopathy "manufacturers", who make huge profits by diluting and bottling "remedies" that contain no detectable molecules other than water and/or alcohol?
an understanding of the clinical sciences would suggest that recording and eeg has nothing to do with fibrolyalgia - eegs record electrical activity within the brain - and are most commonly used for epilepsy diagnosis and to assess therapy.
we  prefer “author name, institution” (for example “bruce  mapstone, csiro”).
worse than doing nothing only evidence can determine which category one's claims about a medicine or medical practice fall into.
i read the book and still chose to study the only therapy that was capable of addressing my health issues.
in order to research a subject, there must be an understanding…show full comment cancer treatment is beyond the scope of practice for cam practitioners, university trained or not.
they don't come packaged with the side-effects of the drugs:
and indeed there are just as many (if not more) studies showing acupuncture is no better than placebo (as in the review of reviews i linked to in my last post), one must conclude that either acupuncture has a ridiculously tiny effect which is almost indistinguishable from placebo (if so, why bother with it?) or that it doesn't work at all (which is more likely).
many universities research cam to  generate an evidence base or prove their lack of efficacy.
it also makes orthodox research redundant.
acupuncture mechanism is actually highly…show full comment
for that to happen they isolate the active constituents and…show full comment you say "we have progressed to the point where we can synthesise the active chemicals, thus avoiding potential side effects and interactions associated with giving people a whole natural product, which may contain hundreds of chemicals.
logged in via facebook score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - the medicine that is studied in universities is that which has been shown to work, more effectively than placebos in double blind randomized trials.
(their secondary harms, financially and by delaying effective treatment, are another matter).
the latest controversy started when a group called friends of science in  medicine (fsm) wrote to vice chancellors across the country asking them to  review their health science courses.
there are serious issues in modern research that need to be addressed.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - one has to be very careful when trying to implement teaching about cam within universities.
logged in via twitter score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - has anyone mentioned psychologists?
i actually agree with paul on this one: the author of this article would not appreciate you linking to that website.
in the normal course of my due diligence researching the sites value system.
the use of high or ultra-high doses of vitamins is not good therapeutics, and may even be harmful.
the tga’s ambit includes homeopathic and traditional medicines, such as traditional chinese medicines.
we  therefore ask all authors to disclose any potential conflicts of interest  before publication.
teaching cam can, if brought into the stream and having the alternatives under control could be clever and as we would be in a position to demand certain conditions.
how can this be ethical?
but this isn’t entirely true.
one visit to a naturopath and we new what and were the problems lied.
why should people have to take many medications simple because the initial medication prescribed causes side effects that need to be treated with more drugs.
a balanced view in this debate is particularly important because about 70%  of australians already use cam, mostly alongside conventional medicines and  treatments.
better than doing nothing 3.
you can put our articles on pages with ads, but you can’t sell our  material separately.
and where else would health professionals gain this knowledge if not at university, during their degree?
this article was originally published at the conversation.
and yes my father has had health issues for several years now and the doctors give him more pills and more pills and he gets worse.
cam looks particularly safe when compared to some of the…show full comment thanks evelin tiralongo for this very calm presentation/overview of reasons why cam sits well among other university curricula.
sorry john! business owner logged in via email @gmail.com score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - farida, you haven't done much in dispelling this assumption.
let me see,, where's that reality check device?
larger studies are necessary to confirm the results.
logged in via facebook score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - you say "we have progressed to the point where we can synthesise the active chemicals, thus avoiding potential side effects and interactions associated with giving people a whole natural product, which may contain hundreds of chemicals.
for myself, i constantly ask, how could that possibly work?
i have a large number of extremely serious criticisms of the methodology used in acupuncture trials, so much so that objectively speaking their findings must almost be regarded as entirely meaningless.
these projects focus on the integration of cms into pharmacy practice, cm education for health professionals and students, the efficacy and safety of herbal medicines, as well as investigations into the pharmacological effects of australian mushrooms and medicinal plants.
clinical trials are an extremely long, regulated process, that are done to ensure the safety and efficacy of treatments before they reach the general public.
none the worse for it?
what is the problem with expanding their role to accomodate worldwide patient trends?
this is where i see the full effect of what the advances in western medicine can do in my role as an advanced care paramedic.
the intricacies of individualised herbal remedies for a single disease also cannot be tested in a scientific trial adequately.
they want us to accept their claims at face value without any research to support their claims.
even in rats acupuncture has been shown to significantly influence neuropeptide blood levels over and above placebo:
indeed, why should there be less knowledge about cam rather than more?
well said rob, one of the most intelligient comments i have read here yet.
http://goo.gl/ph8oa univeristy trained naturopath, law student une logged in via email @hotmail.com score: insightful + unconstructive - paul it is highly inappropriate to add mischievous links in an attempt to discredit an entire database.
the other issue is do we risk losing the "willow bark" equivalent today's of herbalists for example by not being clever?
chronic headaches using alternative medicine?
for that to happen they isolate the active constituents and create a synthetic version and patent it to make millions.
when you fail to adequately look at the limitations of concepts (like ebm), research designs (ineffective at measuring multiple changeable variables in an intervention - as commonly seen in the practice of homeopathy) and people, you fail to advance research as a whole.
john nicol nurse educator logged in via email @y7mail.com score: insightful + unconstructive -
ok, i get it now...if i ever get in a car accident i'll be sure to call the homeopathic ambulance, be transported to the wellness ed, be referred to the ayurvedic surgeon and have reiki and acupuncture for my post-operative pain.
most readers would know of the current debate about universities teaching complementary and alternative medicine (cam).
it is very easy, as is apparent by some comments above, for people to over-react about the concept of 'risk' attributed to complementary medicine use.
you have to credit the conversation and link back to our home page as  provided in the html.
- the cancers that hormonal preparations could cause.
it is manipulating a vulnerable group of people desperate for pain relief.
their answer is simply take more pain killers!
you know it really irritates me when people such as yourself completely ignore the benefits that modern medicine have provided.
examples like homeopathy, on the other hadn are based on a theory from the nineteenth century that has never been shown to work, and yet the theory hasn't changed.
as a health consumer there better protection in buying a second hand car than there is in the cam industry.
we might not know all about every function of the body, but, with research, advanced imaging and advanced laboratory techniques, we certainly know more than the 19th centure theorists who invented some of these systems which have never responded to new evidence.
one might view the basic criteria used by vaccine researchers, namely, that generating elevated antibody titers proves the value of the vaccine, oppositely: proving the vaccine is causing harm to the developing infant by generating unnecessarily elevated antibodies by any means necessary......." you may very well think this language and these ideas are appropriate, given the apparent value system your position is understandable.
the study you cite from fisher et al over 20 years ago was a small group, badly designed, and found not to be replicable by colquhoun in his 1990 article published in the the lancet.
the studies are actually flawed in a way that leads to more negative results than is truly the case.
for those i have treated with each of these conditions, treatment has never been exactly the same.
published evidence does not equal efficacy, it just indicates research.
herbal medicines with efficacy have exactly the same types of side effects and adverse event issues as do conventional medicine.
why does he seem to ignore…show full comment as a pharmacist, i understand professor dwyer's concerns but it would appear to me that he has had little involvement with and knowledge of the vast therapeutic benefits of complementary & alternative medicines and therapies (cam).professor dwyer has the right to express his opinions but i do not believe that he should impose them on either government policy, private medical insurance companies or the public -who are opting for integrative medicine in increasing numbers.
i believe both play important roles in treating the whole person from not just a physical dimension- but also emotionally, spiritually and mentally.
science-based therapy doesn't just mean that the effectiveness should be proven scientifically - it means that the therapy should be based on the clinical sciences - the way we know the body works.
he described such theories by saying; "not only is it not right, it's not even wrong!"
cam looks particularly safe when compared to some of the iatrogenic and sometimes fatal effects of pharmaceutical and biomedical treatments (last i read about this, only a few years back, this contributed to around 18,000 australian deaths each year).
isn't this the point?
in order to have effective and well designed research, we need university trained researchers who understand both the historical usage and the hard sciences.
some get better with cam,so try this or that,and some don't get results.
postdoctoral researcher, griffith university logged in via email @griffith.edu.au score: -5 insightful + unconstructive - henry, as a 'chinese medicine researcher', how many peer-reviewed publications in scientific journals have you published?
climate and agronomic extension at department of agriculture and food - western australia score: -5
another example, the cochrane review is supportive of st john's wort in depression - a natural medicine used effectively for a long time by natural therapists like marie.
sure, universities ought to be able to say what medicines are useful as the main author proposes, but, i must have missed the bit where she said they would carry out full clinical trials on each and every one of these "medicines" before promoting them as useful additions to our pharmceutical list.
logged in via facebook score: +11 insightful + unconstructive -
it may not have made the issues clearer when it carries tittles like this; the vaccination agenda: an implicit transhumanism / dehumanism
no matter what you say about it, st john's wort worked for depression prior to a cochrane review on the substance.
claim that cam practitioners always or even usually refer patients with serious conditions to mainstream practitioners is just not convincing - there are many anecdotes that say otherwise .
misanthropist logged in via email @gmail.com score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - *declaration public hospital clinician logged in via email @healthcaresd.com score: insightful + unconstructive - pharmacists market and sell medications at a profit - including scam medicines.
in my practice we have several people a month who are able to fall pregnant within 1-2 cycles after trying unsuccessfully for a long time, and yes we happily work with their ivf practitioner when required, western medicine gives analgesia and suggests getting pregnant to treat endometriosis, we treat homeostatic imbalances, giving back quality of life, the others work the same and it is always encouraged to work with the regime that their gp already has them on till this gets altered by the gp when the symptoms have gone.
and then it will be there for all to see, whether in for or against.
doctors will always have a diagnostic, referral and treatment role.
because the surgical side of what we now know as modern medicine chased the profit in hospitals and…show full comment sue - couldn't agree more, about "remedies" and i might add their genuine placebo effect can be dangerous, to health and pocket.
acupuncture has infection and pnemothorax as side effects.
" is it just me or does the initial deceleration appear disingenuous?
now in the form they are, run rampant, challenge modern medicine, cause untold damage and operate unchecked.
lets mis-educate people into thinking they are full of toxins and do not much more than produce a few more bowel movements so they think they are now clean.
there’s clinical evidence for acupuncture as effective treatment for  various conditions, includingmigraines, tension-type headaches and chronic  low-back pain.
i only turned to cam after many years of ineffective medical help - you may note that is the majority of my life was spent ill because of the limitations (not inefficacy) of orthodox medicine.
we are all supposed to be in the health industry.
not saying preference traditional 'western' style medicine over cam just that when both are evaluated using the best tool we have to determine effect cam fails.
erika that's because they are cam specific "weasel words".
see here for a discussion of why placebo comparisons are important.
strangely enough, th e ‘real scientists’amongst us (with so much criticism of cam) don’t seem to be mentioning these and other issues about rigourously scientifically tested medicines: -that the body regards drugs as toxins so we need to continue dosing to maintain "therapeutic" levels -the side-effects of drugs
in contrast, homeopathic "remedies" are rarely directly harmful because they contain no active ingredients.
it became standard knowledge.
the other studies you mentioned are equally as
the vast majority of patients undergoing chemotherapy are not immune compromised.
many concepts…show full comment i am constantly confused by the rationale behind this debate.
surely we are mature enough to debate & discuss without stooping to name calling.
if a plant contains a chemical that is therapeutic, why doesn't it make sense to extract it, purify it and standardise the dose?
i actually feel sorry for those who waste their money studying such courses, and i feel even sorrier for the people who then pay the graduates to prepare what is essentially extremely expensive water...
the site you quoted was greenmedinfo.com.
claiming that cam medicines and those who sell them are in accordance with…show full comment the failure to properly declare pecuniary interest by the writer of the original article was a serious error.
that is dogma, not science.
for example it works for fibromyalgia and it has been trialed.
the national prescribing service’s “review of the quality of complementary medicines information resources” can be used to identify which cam information resources are of high quality, evidence-based, unbiased and well structured.
that's how science works.
i think i recall benzodiazepines prescribed by the bucket load.
it is interesting to note that while in discussion with professor kerryn phelps on abc radio, professor dwyer was attacking acupuncture as being not scientifically supported.
including quasi-science in universities will only legitimise these treatments.
modern medicine is useful but sometimes it just doesnt cut it.
researcher logged in via email @gmail.com score: insightful + unconstructive -
there is a very big difference between a university offering a course in natural medicine, and having researchers at that university research the effectiveness of some medicines.
this page contains over 140 studies from medline indicating acupuncture has potential value in well over 100 conditions http://www.greenmedinfo.com/therapeutic-action/acupuncture pharmacist/ cam therapist & educator logged in via email @hotmail.com score: +9 insightful + unconstructive - as a pharmacist, i understand professor dwyer's concerns but it would appear to me that he has had little involvement with and knowledge of the vast therapeutic benefits of complementary & alternative medicines and therapies (cam).professor dwyer has the right to express his opinions but i do not believe that he should impose them on either government policy, private medical insurance companies or the public -who are opting for integrative medicine in increasing numbers.
not massive doses of the chemicals which often cause unnecessary side effects for thousands of people.
guess it should be nothing changed.
my impressions have been that it's hit and miss.
i think in this day and age we have moved beyond that level and thse who want to see these "medicines" on the tga schedule should be prepared to ensure that the appropriate research is done first!!
research also suggests that cam education may also teach practitioners  greaterself-awareness, improved core competencies (such as evidence-based  practice), enhanced cultural competency andpatient-centred care.
we also offer a specifically designed “short course in integrative medicine for pharmacists,” which has been accredited for continuous professional development.
why shouldn’t medical practitioners learn about the evidence for this treatment option at universities to increase consumer choices and improve patient outcomes?
she has received approximately $1,190,000 in internal and external research funding either as a ci or ai and has published over 30 peer-reviewed articles, one patent and several book chapters.
homeopathy does not work for fibromyalgia, or anything else for that matter.
one might view the basic criteria… angela - a good reference?
the last decade it was parasites,followed by "alkalizing" which is still in vogue.
the use of such high-quality resources is available and encouraged at universities.
the death of penelope dingle is a prime example of the dangers of this kind of approach to cam.
the idea that there are lots of chemicals acting synergistically in herbs is common, but there is no actual evidence that this is so.
teaching this nonsense in universities would also strengthen the public's perception of cam being a legitimate branch of medicine (which it is not).
chinese medicine practitioner, acupuncturist, doctor of alternative medicine and advanced care paramedic logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - md and what field is yours?
logged in via facebook score: +7 insightful + unconstructive - i have been proving it for 10 years.
the criticisms of this industry are valid and we would do well to respond to these and not reject evidence as it comes in.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hmgibogu8q0 the book trick or treatment covers homeopathy and other alternative medicine thoroughly: http://www.trickortreatment.com/ logged in via facebook score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - "my naturopath wants me to do a detox" "my naturopath wants me to oxygenate my system" "my naturopath wants me to do a parasite cleanse" "my naturopath wants me to alkalise" "i'm allergic to wheat" these are statements i've encountered from customers walking into health food stores.with their lists of groceries and supplements .now
so, what did the discoverers of h. pylori do?
instead of trying to be the top dog, why not unite and work for the better health of clients and communities?
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: insightful + unconstructive - the body regards all exogenous substances *including herbal medicines* as "toxins", in the sense that they are broken down by the various xenobiotic metabolising enzymes.
also, could you please link the the efficacy studies for "all the conditions that i mentioned are not treated successfully by western medicine are treated extremely well by cam" your knowledge of the history of science-based medicine also appears to be rather skewed.
but even still, even considering the enormous inappropriateness of the methodology applied to these testings, the evidence is still in many cases favourable.
crushing up herbs and giving them to people is a primitive form of medicine - we have progressed to the point where we can synthesise the active chemicals, thus avoiding potential side effects and interactions associated with giving people a whole natural product, which may contain hundreds of chemicals.
of all the medical specialties, anaesthesia would be amongst the best documented as far as its physiology and pharmacology.
to claim acupuncture is effective shows a lack of understanding of the concept ofnquality blinded trials (with sham acupuncture), all of which have shown if is no better than placebo.
but teaching the pseudoscience / pseudomedicine itself is a despicable thing to do and this fallacy-filled opinion piece (argumentum ad populum, argumentum ad antiquatatem, false balance/compromise...) is ironic evidence of a need for critical thinking skills and basic science to be (better) taught in universities, not cam.
misanthropist logged in via email @gmail.com score: +9 insightful + unconstructive - "evelin tiralongo does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations.
worse, because people don't see these things as drugs they don't take appropriate precautions.
some critical self appraisal is long overdue.
they are cam practitioners, and the medical professionals refer patients to practitioners.
there is also very high quality mri research into the effects of acupuncture on brain chemistry, which are conclusively positive.
there are quasi sham practitioners in every area of health care, no exceptions, and let's not forget the amount of people who die each year from iatrogenic disease and alleric reaction to drugs.
keep up the good work friends of science in medicine.
that is just what happens with 'pseudo-science'- if you say so.
tiralongo, also has a million (dollar $) reasons to back them.
and where else would health professionals gain this knowledge if not at  university, during their degree?
the fact that orthodox researchers are willing to look at those because they are easy to fit into the paradigm is noble of you, but we are happy to develop our skills and research them ourselves thank you.
potential drugs can then be evaluated in a scientific manner.
from a layman's perspective, until we see unequivocal 'research based evidence' of concise cause and cure with (let's be optimistic) 100% cure rate, then i'm assuming that medicine is also pretty much in the unproven basket.
and no, water does not have a memory, for if it did, surely it would 'remember' all the faeces and urine and bacteria and medications that were once in it?
it's not enough to have an idea, you also have ot be right.
and no, water does not have a memory, for if it did, surely it would 'remember' all the faeces and…show full comment reading some of the above comments scares me.
unless you study it properly you'll never know.
however, poor practice by individuals does not equate to the removal of training in universities.
for years my daughter has suffered hay-fever and small aches and pains that were not helped by general practitioners.
it seems to me that pharmacists such as farida, have a very deep vested interest in the promotion of the cheaply produced (no costly…show full comment it would not matter if it were not so serious.
not every treatment will work on 100% of patients, 100% of the time, nor should we expect it too.
and, australians are voting with their pockets!
that 'acupuncture for migraine prophylaxis' review is a joke, 'there is no evidence for an effect of 'true' acupuncture over sham interventions' = placebo effect .
equities trader logged in via email @yahoo.com score: -1 insightful + unconstructive -
ok, you need to be corrected on a number of points.
or go to the mediclights research website.
the national prescribing service’s “review of the quality of  complementary medicines information resources” can be used to identify  which cam information resources are of high quality, evidence-based, unbiased  and well structured.
will a cam university degree stop these practices?
this process costs massive amounts of money and takes many many years, and more often than not, drugs are rejected due to safety or efficacy concerns.
so the community expects health professionals to be able to provide information and guidance about the quality use ofall medicines, which, according toaustralian’s national medicines policy, includes complementary medicines.
can we say categorically we haven't missed something incredible right under our stiff necks?
on the 1 hand, some say we are not qualified enough - on the other…show full comment i am shocked at some of the comments here.
garvan institute score: insightful + unconstructive - to quote terry simpson... science = test me belief =
homeopathy is the opposite of scientific.
i was directing people to the repository of evidence based articles, but you would like to shut any attempt of that down.
did you do you md(am) through the indian board of alternative medicine (ibam)?
i criticized the system used to pass drugs onto the market, not modern medicine in itself.
i’m sure that any university lecturer would agree with these principles; most would consider themselves as friends of science in medicine.
perhaps you md study did not include the basic clinical sciences.
they won't be replaced, undermined, side-lined or make less money if they embrace integrative medicine.
in the case of homeopathy the argument of its safety is spurious since in the dilutions employed it can not contain any trace of the original ingredient.
a balanced view in this debate is particularly important because about 70% of australians already use cam, mostly alongside conventional medicines and treatments.
logged in via facebook score: insightful + unconstructive - universities should teach that the cam industry is infested with charlatans who are more than happy to lie to you about the efficacy of their treatment and smile whilst they take your money.
as…show full comment one has to be very careful when trying to implement teaching about cam within universities.
damn, i can't use it as it's still being tested on rats!
i, personally, think the scientific methodology has stagnated and is failing to adequately adjust to the reality of multiple factors interacting in the real world setting.
unconstructive - reading some of the above comments scares me.
the whole field of regional anaesthesia has been revolutionary.
( http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/index.php/acupuncture-revisited/).
and lately its the detox.
you can republish individual articles, but you can’t automatically  republish all of our articles unlessapproved by us.
unfortunately, rigorous scientific testing doesn't seem to me to be making real in-roads with any other dimension other than the physical.
there is an inherent vested interest right there.
homeopathy does nothing for health, nor is it a science - how can an institution get away with such a blatant act of deception.
to be able to do that, health professionals need to be knowledgeable, at least, about the principle, paradigm and available evidence for all complementary medicines, includinghomeopathic and traditional medicines.
they do not account for the critical variable of the practitioner's skill, and when we look at the studies conducted in china, where i know from my own experience and observation that the skill of practitioners is higher (in general), we see that much more accurate rates of success are demonstrated.
to my knowledge all natural therapists are keen to work in conjunction with a doctor, not against them.
you are more critical and more interested in the conventional treatments and how you fit the whole health picture.
" which drugs are you talking about, it is not clear.
it's not good just because it's been done for thousands of years.
logged in via facebook score: insightful + unconstructive - and by trying to crush these modalities, there will never be the research, will there?
western medicine is responsible for hundreds of thousands of iatrogenic injuries and deaths per year while cam is only implicated in a handful.
insightful + unconstructive -
medical student logged in via email @aucklanduni.ac.nz score: insightful + unconstructive - please bear in mind that your own subjective experiences do not constitute evidence.
this isn't about teaching an alternative, it is about teaching magic to kids.
because after how long these cam methods have supposedly been practiced, you would expect to see some actual evidence rather than magical assumptions of their mechanisms.
logged in via facebook score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - "there’s clinical evidence for acupuncture as effective treatment for various conditions, including migraines, tension-type headaches and chronic low-back pain.
why shouldn’t medical practitioners learn about the evidence for this  treatment option at universities to increase consumer choices and improve  patient outcomes?
and to think this is happening daily throughout the country on a daily basis.
cam is a term for many different practices and medicines and there’s  scientific evidence for a number of them.
if not, which ones are more valid than others?
our teaching research has shown that pharmacy students perceive education about cam as a core part of their professional degree.
neither medicine has all the answers and neither should they claim too, the community will make their own decision in the long run as to which modality of medicine they choose to put their faith and dollars into, we should definitely encourage medicine research in both areas through increased availability of university course to improve the health of everyone.
cam course do not have a magical effect on intellectual function.
your lack of respect for what the "gods" of science tell you to do might land you a nobel prize in physiology or medicine?) or simply making mistakes in research (welcome to stress) scientific arrogance is not good science.
modern anaesthesia has come a long way from the days of ether because of science - we know which chemicals act at which receptors.
this is well known within the cam community.
also, could you please…show full comment mr seletto - what do you mean by "cam"?
the tga’s ambit includes  homeopathic and traditional medicines, such as traditional chinese medicines.
the data indicates significant difference between "sham" acupuncture and fake steroid injections, so we must remain open-minded about what is really going on here.
the other option is that further research into health treatments is needed and science can still expand.
public hospital clinician logged in via email @healthcaresd.com score: insightful + unconstructive - ms maccuspie - the reason that science-based medicines can have side effects is that they have effects.
"homeopathy...is actually very scientific..."!
are these really the "choices" in healthcare that we should be promoting?
we need to educate the community about the concept of a placebo, which is all these myriad treatments are.
acupuncturist logged in via email @hotmail.com score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - case in point (pun intended).
" that doesn't stop natural therapy companies from making money from it, now does it.
yes, gps do need to improve their handling of chronic illness…show full comment as someone who has fibromyalgia, i am constantly annoyed at the amount of pseudoscience crap that is constantly being pushed at sufferers claiming to be a cure all.
logged in via linkedin score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - sue - couldn't agree more, about "remedies" and i might add their genuine placebo effect can be dangerous, to health and pocket.
it slaps chemistry in the face whilst stealing terminology from physics to try and convince people of its legitimacy.
but it’s a matter of concern when the debate and terminology become simplistic, generalised and uninformed.
these were used by doctors based purely on subjective experience.
- your thinking is naive and flawed, you clearly do not understand what science is nor the training that is involved in it.
the latest controversy started when a group… senior lecturer at griffith university evelin tiralongo does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article, and has no relevant affiliations.
so why do we need to stop further investigations into these and blindly buy into drugs which often times only give a 15% efficacy and often introduce new complications?
teaching pharmacy students about herbal medicines is important.
we license our articles under creative commons — attribution, no derivatives.
acupuncture is also highly implausible, being founded on pre…show full comment i am not excluding them, in fact they're quite indicative of acupuncture research in general - flawed methodologies leading to slightly positive results (which is a well-documented bias in any field of study; for poor quality studies to show a minor positive effect which disappears with higher quality research.
found in particular abundance in the "story" told about homeopathy.
we found that cam research and education had a moderating  effect onstudents' attitudes towards cam.
fsm rightly says that rigorous academic  standards and evidence for scientific conclusions and health-care practices are  of the essence and should be the basis of all university teaching.
as recommended by the world health organization, countries around the world should be incorporating both cam and western medicine into hospitals as well as out of hospital setting, using the best mix of therapies to suit each individual case.
more like critical thinking.
and it's not just herbs.
this is due to many factors such as publication bias, confirmation bias, the placebo effect and research bias/experiment bias).
we need a new, rational and comprehensive approach, to measure therapies that are creating results in the real world (not simply because australians are gullible, non-scientists).
in my practice we have several people a month who are able to fall pregnant within 1-2 cycles after trying unsuccessfully…show full comment thank you marie for your response, you are quite right that cam is an individualized treatment to the patients presenting nature, it does not treat disease labels, but to answer john, through predominantly acupuncture with some chinese herbal medications as well as lifestyle and dietary advice most patients with the disease states mentioned expect to see quick and long term results.
bad mouthing each other is really not helping anyone.
this being only one example.
i'd go into detail, but instead refer you to david gorski's article on homeopathy and fibromyalgia, which covers the issue in far more detail and more eloquently than i can here.
test it scientifically.
hardly a ringing endorsement of alternative therapies, is it?
there has been a lot of science done on cam modalities and they have been largely found to be baseless.
univeristy trained naturopath, law student une logged in via email @hotmail.com score: insightful + unconstructive -
i mean - homeopathy really?
wow - i think we need to alert the whacky police!
i would appreciate an outline of the results of trials of those traditional medicines as well as arteminisin that are effective .to
making statements of this kind ...... "......
indeed, while the difference between acupuncture and "sham" acupuncture is small, sometimes even clinically insignificant, the difference between "sham" acupuncture and no treatment is moderate to large.
the list goes on..... thankfully, many australians can see that both forms of medicine have their advantages and disadvantages.
and when you become ill, and need the help of a real doctor, because the herbal teas just don't cut it anymore, you'll turn up to the hospital and receive first-class medical treatment from a group of people who genuinely want to help people, who genuinely care about saving lives.
in australia, complementary medicines are regulated as medicines by the  therapeutic goods administration (tga).
they did both bacteriological studies and clinical trials - and they had positive results.
what’s more, there’s a medicare rebate available for  acupuncture if it’s part of a doctor’s examination.
research into identifying drugs from natural products is an legitimate and evidence based process, some of which even occurs in my lab at uni - natural products such as plants, sponges, corals etc are extracted and possible drug leads identified using a number of assays.
acupuncture is also highly implausible, being founded on pre-scientific notions and having no convincing evidence for its mechanism of action ( especially since 'sham acupuncture' i.e. not even inserting the needle and randomising the locations seems to work just as well).
john nicol the cam indutry is approaching this back to front.
people in other "non-traditional" countries - russia, china, even germany enjoy more alternative therapies than the pharma-dominated countries like ours.
i'm not reminded so much of healthy criticism or responsible dissent by the critics of cam who have posted in this comment thread as i am a toddler in the throws of a temper tantrum.
licence to republish we license our articles under creative commons — attribution, no  derivatives.
fsm, cam, alteranative medicines subscribe to our daily e-mail newsletter to receive our top stories each day—delivered straight to your inbox.
google this term and you'll find evidence that are starting to bubble into view.
or go to the mediclights research website…show full comment there are "alternative medicines" that have sound scientific bases and evidence but never emerge out of that category either because the evidence have not found their way into western medical literature or underwent the grossly expensive "gold standard" controlled studies.
there is also very high quality mri research into the effects of acupuncture on brain chemistry, which are conclusively positive."
i'll conclude by saying that a medical degree with an evidence based cam as a post grad is the way to go for anyone who wants to give medical advice.
so should we turn our back on the consumer-driven trend toward holistic and  integrative healthcare, or should we work together to understand, research and  teach different principles, practices and evidence to improve health outcomes  for customers and patients?
the latest controversy started when a group called friends of science in medicine (fsm) wrote to vice chancellors across the country asking them to review their health science courses.
i guarantee that scientists researching the effectiveness of naturally sourced compounds, did not do a degree at the australian college of natural medicine, or some other such bogus institution...
trust me equities trader logged in via email @yahoo.com score: insightful + unconstructive - emergency cam http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hmgibogu8q0 nurse educator logged in via email @y7mail.com score: insightful + unconstructive - that says it all....
however his most severe criticism he reserved for theories so inadequately presented as to be un-testable or un-falsifiable and so not belonging within the realm of science.
or is it a selective memory for only the 'nice' things?
as a practitioner of both cam and western medicine i feel that some of the academics responding to the argument of whether alternative medicine should be taugh at universities, have lost view of the big picture of what medicine is all about, by instead focussing their arguments on what entails scientific evidence based research.
acupuncturist logged in via email @hotmail.com score: insightful + unconstructive - well said indeed public hospital clinician logged in via email @healthcaresd.com score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - ms mcdonald, your example of helicobacter is a good one.
australian "practitioners" then buy "mother tinctures" that then are diluted again and again and also sold at large profits by those practitioners who recommend them.
what emotional aspect?
senior lecturer logged in via email @rmit.edu.au score: insightful + unconstructive -
even systematic reviews have disagreed with each other.'
given that you yourself admit 'findings must almost be regarded as entirely meaningless.'
the survey found most pharmacists supported undergraduate cam education  (76%), and the majority (85%) were interested in additional cam education  themselves.
the argument put forward to remove education in natural medicine is facile at best.
how many people in your family have high-cholesterol, high blood…show full comment
logged in via facebook score: +2 insightful + unconstructive -
it is a dangerous practice because it deters people from seeking proper treatment and management of their condition.
what fsm is objecting to is teaching *undergraduate courses* which accept wholesale unproven or disproven elements.
http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/index.php/homeopathy-for-fibromyalgia-dana-ullman-strikes-again-on-the-huffington-post/ public hospital clinician logged in via email @healthcaresd.com score: insightful + unconstructive - ms kirchmajer is correct - people with chronic disease are often exploited by "alternative" (not science-based) practitioners.
it reflects just how consensus and not evidence-based their model is, which is to say, based on a will to power and not compassion or truth.
according to the tga’sguidelines general and medium-level claims (such as the temporary relief of minor self-limiting conditions) for complementary medicine’s efficacy can be based on certain traditional use evidence.
figuratively speaking, one presumably cannot see a whole picture squinting one eye closed nor work effectively and provide best service with one hand.
but there is a very big difference between treating someone with a treatment that has been evaluated using the scientific method, and shown to be efficacious some or all of the time, compared to treating someone with something that has been tested and shown to work no better than placebo.
it is the rigour in the research and subsequent careful clinical trials which are required for whatever process or chemicals are being offered as a form of treatment.
i, for one, would prefer the latter.
surely if alternative therapies were so good you'd expect their health to be significant;y better than our "pharma-dominated" countries?
perhaps part of the reason universities have pseudo-science courses such as those being discussed comes from the potential income from chinese medicine confucius institutes?
then it becomes a pharmaceutical, but it's available to everyone…show full comment ms maccuspie - the reason that science-based medicines can have side effects is that they have effects.
in order to have university trained researchers with this combined knowledge, we require well developed and constantly evolving university courses.
the 'lots of people use cam' argument is rather tired.
as only one form of cam, homeopathy has a different 'paradigm' or way of understanding how health and illness works, which may make it seem mysterious.
digital video officer logged in via email @museum.vic.gov.au score: -4 insightful + unconstructive - "natural therapies use the whole plant (which these companies cannot patent and make money from)...
do you think that is ethical?
it seems to me that pharmacists such as farida, have a very deep vested interest in the promotion of the cheaply produced (no costly research there) alternative medicines most of which rely totally on anecdotal evidence that they "might" be effective in "some cases" of mroning sickness, headaches, back pain and liver cancer.
the only way to surely do this is to take from both sides of medicine the treatment that meets best meets the immediate and long term needs of the patient.
don't be so ungrateful and naive.
now thats a great idea phd candidate in sociology at curtin university score: insightful + unconstructive - sean parker - someone has taken your idea and put it into a comedy sketch!
if the public were better informed about the lack of evidence then maybe they wouldn't.
postdoctoral researcher, griffith university logged in via email @griffith.edu.au score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - homeopathy has no genuine scientific evidence in its favor - it is pseudoscientific garbage.
giving toxins to a severely ill patient makes perfect sense -right?
it concluded that acupuncture is not proven effective for pain and can be harmful.
there is a historical record of the rift that developed between surgical medicine and medical preparations or drugs.
the other option is that further research into health treatments…show full comment
i have been a naturopath for 12 years & i work with many other therapists, of all types, to improve my patients' health.
that's why the entire body of acupuncture research needs to be examined, which is exactly what has been done, with a systematic review of all the systematic reviews of acupuncture in 2011 (57 systematic reviews in total - see link above).
you must link to us and include links from our story, as well as our page  view counter.
but just because st. johns worth is an antidepressant does not mean that the whole of naturopathy, acupuncture, homoeopathy and the like is validated.
engineer logged in via email @gmail.com score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - i find these arguments about cam and "western" medicine so infinitely dull.
it is time for science to move forward, and if it takes cam to stimulate that, this debate is worth having.
as for sean, what are you doing in education of nurses if you have such a closed mind to what is available for patients, i can tell you that the clinical medicine, pathophysiology and anatomy & physiology studied at university when i studied acupuncture was of a high level as they cover most of a nursing degree as well as their own modality.
one of the advantages universities have is the close relationship between research and teaching – students are more engaged and inspired by research-led teaching, and research is informed by queries from students while teaching.
-and despite thorough and rigorous testing, there are never any drug recalls, faulty or contaminated batches or withdrawls from the market.
*are we not already at the critical threshold of vaccine overload?
now, tell me, are about 70% of australians really being conned by shalatan integrative medicine pseudoscientists?
some of the modalities are derived  from ancient sciences, for instance, and have a very long history of successful  traditional use.
however, these concepts and language really call into question if universities should be involved with cam, it is doubtful the author will appreciate the url being included here.
some of the modalities are derived from ancient sciences, for instance, and have a very long history of successful traditional use.
this is… "my naturopath wants me to do a detox" "my naturopath wants me to oxygenate my system" "my naturopath wants me to do a parasite cleanse" "my naturopath wants me to alkalise" "i'm allergic to wheat" these are statements i've encountered from customers walking into health food stores.with their lists of groceries and supplements .now
strangely enough, th e ‘real scientists’amongst us…show full comment integrative medicine is the combination of allopathic medicine and cam.
this is not due to the pointy needles targeting energy fields but due to the strong (often subconscious) pyschosomatic component of many complaints.
a core question not being  addressed in this debate is what other institution is better placed to deliver  evidence-based knowledge of cam.
i have treated people with all these conditions successfully.
let's not forget our primary aim here as practitioners & therapists - to improve people's health.
logged in via facebook score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - rob seletto, perhaps you might be kind enough advise us, very briefly of course, naming the medicine where appropriate, as to how you would treat each of the following conditions: 1.
logged in via facebook score: insightful + unconstructive - wolfgang ernst pauli the austrian theoretical physicist and pioneer of quantum physics coined a phrase which can be used to describe the pseudo-science presented here in favour of cam.
how ethical was this by surgical medicine to freeze out herbalist after working with them for centuries?
even then, testing some elements of a system does not validate that entire system.
student logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - william, can you confirm for me the cure rates to some of today's common conditions (asthma, diabetes, etc), as well as the more complex (cancer, etc) remedied via medicine?
i have honestly never heard of a more ridiculous concept in my life.
the latest controversy started when a  group… author senior lecturer at griffith university disclosure statement evelin tiralongo does not work for, consult to, own shares in or receive  funding from any company or organisation that would benefit from this article,  and has no relevant affiliations.
perhaps the first term of each university cam course should be devoted exclusively to the book "trick or treatment" with students having the option to quit the course at any time.
logged in via email @gmail.com score: insightful + unconstructive - completely agree with william and ian.
my practice is very nutrition & herb based.
there are two options.
one of the advantages universities have is the  close relationship between research and teaching – students are more  engaged and inspired by research-led teaching, and research is informed by  queries from students while teaching.
but it’s a matter of concern when the debate and terminology become  simplistic, generalised and uninformed.
and i agree that natural therapies should be removed from universities.
"the data from this meta-analysis suggests that acupuncture does increase the live birth rate with in vitro fertilisation (ivf) treatment when performed around the time of embryo transfer."
and i don't think paul was being 'mischievous' - there are a whole heap of crazy articles on that website, including conspiracy theories that contrails from aircraft are poisoning us all with chemicals!
i’m sure that any university lecturer would agree with these  principles; most would consider themselves as friends of science in medicine.
postdoctoral researcher, griffith university logged in via email @griffith.edu.au score: insightful + unconstructive - rob, may i ask what qualifications you have to call yourself a "doctor of alternative medicine"?
natural therapies are better for the body all around.
in my opinion, if any classes should be introduced to the curriculum of health sciences, it should be philosophy of critical thinking, logic, and argument, which would ultimately result in much greater self-awareness and improved core competencies then any cam teachings could ever achieve.
some important reasons to be very careful of cam claims and ivf, or any modality can be examined here (and links therein) http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/index.php/acupuncture-for-ivf-revisited-more-tooth-fairy-science/ http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/index.php/ivf-and-cam-use/ logged in via facebook score: insightful + unconstructive - angela, you are doing well!
the rest has been tried and found lacking and were subsequently dismissed.
the link is greenmedinfo.com, apologies for the incorrect link above.
" from her profile page: "she is a chief investigator in several clinical, practice and laboratory based cm research projects funded through the pharmacy guild of australia, the national institute of complementary medicine, the cm industry and the nhmrc.
pauli could be scathing in his dismissal of any theory he found lacking, labeling it "utterly wrong".
if you find no efficacy then drop it like the medieval nonsense that most of it is.
i would urge professor dwyer to be more open to growing worldwide trends towards integrative medicine and use his influence to increase research in favour of integrative medicine.
-yes, i suppose rigorous medical testing can also effectively measure and cure the emotional and stress related aspects of disease?
surely this is exactly why cam should be researched and studied in universities.
what is your area of expertise?
logged in via facebook score: +6 insightful + unconstructive - i agree, i think that is a fabulous idea.
logged in via facebook score: insightful + unconstructive - and ian, that is the reason i buy or grow whole herbs and use those, not pills that have been processed.
kava is restricted because of its hepatotoxicity, also it acts in the same ways as the reviled benzodiazapenes and has exactly the same issues.
indeed, so-called "sham acupuncture" bears a striking resemblance to certain techniques in traditional japanese schools of acupuncture that are centuries old (shallow needling, non-penetrative, alternate acupoint and meridian locations, etc), so we can't use the results of such research to claim that "acupuncture is no better than placebo" like you do.
while orthodox medical practitioners prescribe at arm's length from supply, many other non-scientific therapists recommend "remedies" and then retail them directly, at a profit.
before researchers and scientists make these fraudulent claims that cam does not conduct evidence based research, look at why indemnity insurance is so massive for western medco's and not for cam practitioners.
we may have different theories, studies, modalities and beliefs (but like religion), i would hope that we are all just taking different paths to the same place - health.
the body regards all exogenous substances *including herbal medicines* as "toxins", in the sense that they are broken down by the various xenobiotic metabolising enzymes.
read the original article.
actually it wouldn't be "hit", probably more like soothed a meridian line.
-illness caused by drugs -deaths caused by drugs -that testing doesn't seem so impressive regarding long term projecture.
you can't say that doesn't count, you can't say that, because it seems to work in some cases and not really in other cases then its the end of the story, close the book, close your mind, move on, nothing to see here, etc, etc, etc.
etc. are broken down by the same enzymes that break down conventional drugs.
where do you derive a substantial amount of your income?
what is even scarier is that bogus institutions like the 'australian college of natural medicine' offer courses such as "bachelor of health science (homeopathy)" - seriously?
the use of such high-quality resources is available and  encouraged at universities.
there is an arabic expression that says, "we see properly with two eyes and clap with two hands".
however since you raised ethics, there was a divergence between herbalists or cam in the 1920s as the surgical side of medicine and hospitals diverged.
so the community expects health professionals to be able to provide  information and guidance about the quality use ofall medicines, which,  according toaustralian’s national medicines policy, includes  complementary medicines.
the issue is educating people about what causes ill health in the first place.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ejca.2011.06.036 complementary medicines do absolutely nothing to cancer survival, that is a large price to pay for having few side effects.
postdoctoral researcher, griffith university logged in via email @griffith.edu.au score: insightful + unconstructive - rachel, you have completely missed the point.
are you seriously suggesting that it only works now because the evidence has caught up with the practice?
however, i suspect that (like the rest of us) you live a life that benefits from the collective knowledge of scientists, technicians and a whole range of other people whose skills have made our lives safer, longer and - yes - healthier.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - vitamins, minerals and foods are not alternative medicine, it was standard medicine that discovered vitamins and the benefits of good nutrition.
logged in via facebook score: -6 insightful + unconstructive - it would not matter if it were not so serious.
that way when you take a table that says it has 50 mg of artemsisnin, you actually get 50 mg or artemsinin.
thank you griffith university, i eagerly await this revolution in health care.
every herbal product that has an active ingredient has side effect issues.
logged in via facebook score: -3 insightful + unconstructive - thanks evelin tiralongo for this very calm presentation/overview of reasons why cam sits well among other university curricula.
its method may - debatably - be proven by reference to quantum mechanics.
what do you call alternative medicine that is proven to work?
the researchers found that there was a significant and identifiable difference in the eeg readings in patients who were given the real homeopathic medicine as compared to those given the placebo (bell et al, 2004b;
no matter how many times you post it, it won't stop it being a whole heap of rubbish.
and i mean true sham acupuncture, not the quasi sham in some studies, which has essentially caused unblinding.
it is no surprise when the acupuncturist spends 45 minutes discussing the patient's anxieties and fears, the back pain is going to feel better.
the idea that science hasn't and isn't investigating any and all avenues of treatment is also nothing more than a joke.
they would give her sprays and say sinus infections, growth spurts etc.