acupuncture can reduce the discomfort of this phase considerably.
after delivery, acupuncture is very helpful in addressing post partum  depression and mood changes, nursing difficulties, and also assists in  restoring a mother's body and function to non pregnant status.
in a similar way, it is difficult to judge how beneficial oriental medicine is for preventing recurrences and addressing the longer term consequence of chemotherapy and radiation causing secondary malignancy.
most people are able to stop comfortably after one acupuncture session,  although we recommend that you schedule another treatment should you find the  craving for tobacco returning.
many injuries occur in situations of great tension, and the result is often fear, anxiety, worry and obsession.
the results are often very satisfying to the patient in terms of  pain relief, decrease of swelling, and rapid return to normal function.
acupuncture and plant medicines are also used for scars that remain painful, or are causing referred pain.
muscular or joint symptoms which worsen with weather changes are also common.
another very interesting application of acupuncture and moxibustion is to convince a baby to turn head-down before delivery.
symptoms which have only been recently recognized in the  west, such as "premenstrual syndrome" or "premenstrual dysphoric  disease", as well as many other syndromes which are hard to classify or  tend to involve multiple organ systems, are more exactly diagnosed in the  oriental system.
symptoms of allergy and hypersensitivity may affect the body in the sinuses, the airways, the mucous membranes, the lungs or the skin.
as most physicians have nothing other than more drugs to offer, an endless cycle of complications is the result.
the use of acupuncture and dietary therapy can be very helpful to reduce or  eliminate the signs and symptoms of allergic and irritant asthma and sinus  disease.
the cost of these procedures is also 40 to 100 times greater than a  comparable course of oriental medicine.
acupuncture is of secondary importance to dietary therapy, but can be very helpful when applied skillfully to provide quick symptomatic relief.
another very interesting application of acupuncture and moxibustion is to  convince a baby to turn head-down before delivery.
many injuries occur in  situations of great tension, and the result is often fear, anxiety, worry and  obsession.
the cost of these procedures is also 40 to 100 times greater than a comparable course of oriental medicine.
we have specific suggestions in this area which we cover in the first acupuncture session.
the results are often very satisfying to the patient in terms of pain relief, decrease of swelling, and rapid return to normal function.
wholistic treatment with acupuncture avoids the common problem of many doctors treating different areas of the body with conflicting drugs.
casual use of lawn chemicals that are functionally  equivalent to combat nerve gases have also affected a number of my patients.
with time, the headaches become less  frequent and less severe, with the goal of eliminating them altogether.
often, these standardized approaches have  never been proven effective.
the use of moxibustion or dietary treatment can be very helpful  for relief in this area.
western physicians tend to lump disparate signs and symptoms together, ignoring those which do not fit into established disease categories.
physicians with oriental training can accurately localize the affected channels which lead to headache, and apply specific acupuncture to more effectively treat the problem.
associated symptoms will be included in the treatment, as correction of a channel disorder always affects other areas of the body as well as the emotional balance.
the use of "herbs" is a specialty area of study in china, and is  only practiced by dedicated physicians who have pursued advanced training.
digestive disorders, fatigue, interruption of sleep  and mood changes can also be addressed at the same time as treatment of the  headache.
it is not widely known in the u.s., but traditional physicians prefer to treat both partners if there are any conception disorders.
i have seen very good results for professional athletes, martial artists, performers, animal trainers and horsewomen.
asthma and allergy symptoms are increasing in our society, and often require treatment with powerful drugs which cause a variety of side effects.
in the lineage of japanese acupuncture that i have studied, treatment is often applied to scars as they begin to heal.
for example, a facial headache which originates from the sinuses can trigger a vascular, "migraine" type headache.
this is actually a  very good idea to align and coordinate the male and female polarities.
even overuse injuries and weekend sports injuries respond well.
acupuncture is of secondary importance to dietary therapy, but  can be very helpful when applied skillfully to provide quick symptomatic relief.
acupuncture will not help you to reduce these associations, though they will lose some of their power as long as you continue as a nonsmoker.
very few patients have one type of headache only, and one type  of headache can "trigger" another type.
drug therapy also creates the risk of developing "rebound" headaches which occur when the drugs wear off.
wholistic treatment with acupuncture avoids the common problem of many  doctors treating different areas of the body with conflicting drugs.
overwhelming fatigue is also a problem which chinese medicine can reduce,  and it may be possible to decrease the negative effect of chemotherapy and  radiation on normal tissues.
the gentle movements of qi gong, tai qi, or yoga are an excellent foundation for more vigorous exercises with resistance bands or free weights.
top acupuncture for musculoskeletal disorders: arthritis, tendonitis, and  fibromyalgia the pain of chronic diseases such as arthritis, tendonitis, and  fibromylagia can often be lessened by the use of acupuncture and other oriental  methods.
sinus symptoms may include congestion, watery or sticky discharges, pain and pressure.
top before and after surgical procedures elective or emergency surgery is also a situation where acupuncture can be  very helpful.
traditional oriental medicines; acupuncture, chinese medicine, tibetan medicine, african medicine, moxibustion.
post surgical pain is often frustrating for both surgeons and patients, and is generally poorly addressed by modern western physicians.
no one has an easy time altering psychological or physical habits.
however, i have seen  very good results in motivated patients, and evidence is slowly accumulating in  support of comprehensive integrated treatment.
even overuse  injuries and weekend sports injuries respond well.
in addition, acupuncture and certain dietary changes may be helpful to reduce many of the normal discomforts associated with pregnancy.
top elective or emergency surgery is also a situation where acupuncture can be very helpful.
if drugs or hormones must be used, side effects may be reduced.
some  individuals develop problems in all of these areas.
often, these standardized approaches have never been proven effective.
these can be very difficult to treat, as the patient must be withdrawn from the headache drugs.
top sports and work-related injuries, trauma one of the areas in which acupuncture is most impressive is in the area of  acute injury.
women who are having problems with conception, premenstrual symptoms, or menopausal issues will often see positive results with oriental medicine.
we  have specific suggestions in this area which we cover in the first acupuncture  session.
all sorts of trauma, from bruises to sprains to strains to concussions and fractures, can be partially or completely treated with acupuncture and plant derived medicines.
physicians with oriental training can accurately localize the affected  channels which lead to headache, and apply specific acupuncture to more  effectively treat the problem.
i was puzzled as to why the headaches were not responding to  my treatment, but once i noted the scars within the hairline, the picture  became clear and the headaches responded to treatment.
it is unclear at this point how effective oriental techniques are for  increasing the effectiveness of western anti-cancer therapies.
although this aspect of acupuncture is not well known to the public, i always advise a patient to try to have treatment within 48 hours of an injury.
acupuncture will not help you to reduce these associations, though  they will lose some of their power as long as you continue as a nonsmoker.
i am seeing increasing numbers of people who suffer neuropathy and other  neurologic problems as side effects of their treatment, and this can sometimes  resolve very well with acupuncture and chinese dietary therapy.
the oriental system of diagnosis is more individualized, so that patients'  symptoms and signs lead to a customized treatment.
asthma  and allergy symptoms are increasing in our society, and often require treatment  with powerful drugs which cause a variety of side effects.
cancer surgery involves transecting the channels as well as issues unique to this type of procedure.
most modern cities have problems with air quality outdoors, and indoor air is subject to pollution by furnishings, household chemicals, cosmetics and pet dander.
acupuncture can reduce  the discomfort of this phase considerably.
top acupuncture for allergy, asthma and chronic sinus disease asthma is a syndrome of airway inflammation and constriction which affects  the patient with cough, wheezing and shortness of breath.
it is not widely known in the u.s., but traditional physicians prefer to  treat both partners if there are any conception disorders.
exercise is also important to rehabilitate the joints  and muscles, but it is necessary to relieve the pain  to the degree  necessary for the patient to begin an effective program of strengthening.
exercise is also important to rehabilitate the joints and muscles, but it is necessary to relieve the pain to the degree necessary for the patient to begin an effective program of strengthening.
even if surgery  is ultimately necessary, adept application of acupuncture will assist in the  healing and rehabilitative phases.
current practice with  chinese medicine for gynecologic disorders emphasizes plant derived medicines,  so it is important to see a physician with training in this area.
both allergy and  viral infections can trigger an asthmatic episode, as well as exposure to  directly irritating substances such as smoke and cosmetic fragrances.
sometimes there is post operative pain which does not improve as expected, and acupuncture can be used to try to reduce the painful sensations.
japanese and tibetan medical techniques are uniquely suited to addressing these sorts of problems.
nonetheless, there is still swelling,  bruising and pain, and loss of function just as with accidental trauma.
some headaches are associated with changes in hormone levels, and are more accurately seen as complications of premenstrual or menopausal imbalances.
most people are able to stop comfortably after one acupuncture session, although we recommend that you schedule another treatment should you find the craving for tobacco returning.
modern medications for these disorders commonly cause side effects that are not seen with acupuncture treatment.
after delivery, acupuncture is very helpful in addressing post partum depression and mood changes, nursing difficulties, and also assists in restoring a mother's body and function to non pregnant status.
tension type headaches, often found at the base of the skull, can also lead to a migraine.
as with many other pain syndromes, headache can cause a variety of symptoms which are not in the head.
it is unclear at this point how effective oriental techniques are for increasing the effectiveness of western anti-cancer therapies.
in the lineage  of japanese acupuncture that i have studied, treatment is often applied to  scars as they begin to heal.
drug  therapy also creates the risk of developing "rebound" headaches which  occur when the drugs wear off.
cancer surgery involves transecting the channels as well as issues unique  to this type of procedure.
some individuals develop problems in all of these areas.
once, during an early class for my elective on japanese acupuncture, a  student had, just before the class, injured herself playing volleyball, and her  wrist was already swollen and discolored.
the students could actually  see the swelling decrease during the 20 minutes of the treatment and hear the  patient's amazement at the pain relief and how much more flexibility she had.
the diagnosis of cancer causes a great deal of stress and can result in  emotional imbalances and depression.
very few patients have one type of headache only, and one type of headache can "trigger" another type.
patients report that they can use fewer medications and feel better.
in a similar way, it is difficult to judge how beneficial oriental medicine  is for preventing recurrences and addressing the longer term consequence of  chemotherapy and radiation causing secondary malignancy.
post surgical pain is often frustrating for both surgeons and patients, and  is generally poorly addressed by modern western physicians.
ask for the brochure on how  acupuncture can help you to stop smoking when you call our office.
with time, the headaches become less frequent and less severe, with the goal of eliminating them altogether.
top asthma is a syndrome of airway inflammation and constriction which affects the patient with cough, wheezing and shortness of breath.
the students had not seen acupuncture  in the real world, so, with the student's permission, i demonstrated a  treatment of the tendinomuscular meridian involved.
the treatment of gynecologic imbalances is a well established specialty in oriental medicine.
there is  also an unfortunate tendency to treat patients with different symptoms with  standardized, routine protocols.
symptoms of allergy and hypersensitivity may affect the body in the  sinuses, the airways, the mucous membranes, the lungs or the skin.
for information on this, see the section onfertility and gynecologic problems.
the  addictive aspect of tobacco means that there is a variable withdrawal syndrome  that people go through when they abruptly stop smoking.
it is unfortunate that more acupuncture is not provided to patients in emergency rooms, because there are significant advantages to quickly addressing pain and swelling without the possible side effects of drugs.
even if surgery is ultimately necessary, adept application of acupuncture will assist in the healing and rehabilitative phases.
this technique is very  successful if applied before the 32nd week of pregnancy, and is much more  comfortable for the mother than "modern" methods.
if you do restart smoking, even if it is weeks or months later, we suggest that you schedule another treatment and again try to stop before the habit reestablishes itself.
this technique is very successful if applied before the 32nd week of pregnancy, and is much more comfortable for the mother than "modern" methods.
i remember the first case of this i saw: the patient had not listed her surgery on the history form that i use, and so i did not check the scars for tenderness as i usually do.
casual use of herbal medicine by amateurs and storefront "doctors" is  not tolerated in countries where the value of extensive study and certification  is understood.
nonetheless, there is still swelling, bruising and pain, and loss of function just as with accidental trauma.
it  may be possible to reduce or eliminate the need for western pharmaceuticals.
western physicians tend to lump disparate signs and symptoms together,  ignoring those which do not fit into established disease categories.
for example, a facial headache which originates from the sinuses can  trigger a vascular, "migraine" type headache.
once, during an early class for my elective on japanese acupuncture, a student had, just before the class, injured herself playing volleyball, and her wrist was already swollen and discolored.
sometimes there is post operative pain which does not improve as expected, and  acupuncture can be used to try to reduce the painful sensations.
associated symptoms will be included in the  treatment, as correction of a channel disorder always affects other areas of  the body as well as the emotional balance.
surgery is really a type of trauma, but it is controlled by the surgeon to achieve a particular result.
the students had not seen acupuncture in the real world, so, with the student's permission, i demonstrated a treatment of the tendinomuscular meridian involved.
japanese and tibetan medical techniques are  uniquely suited to addressing these sorts of problems.
just as with other forms of surgery, acupuncture can  be helpful in a variety of ways.
symptoms associated with  arthritis and fibromyalgia, such as problems sleeping, fatigue, and depression,  can also respond to skillfully applied acupuncture.
morning  sickness, insomnia, fatigue, and mood changes can often be helped, and some of  the discomforts that occur in the later stages of pregnancy, such as back and  pelvic discomfort and swelling of the lower extremities, can be reduced.
the  gentle movements of qi gong, tai qi, or yoga are an excellent foundation for  more vigorous exercises with resistance bands or free weights.
top one of the areas in which acupuncture is most impressive is in the area of acute injury.
if  drugs or hormones must be used, side effects may be reduced.
as with many other pain syndromes, headache can cause a variety of symptoms  which are not in the head.
chinese medical techniques are uniquely helpful for many of the emotional imbalances which are associated with traumatic experiences.
there is also an unfortunate tendency to treat patients with different symptoms with standardized, routine protocols.
casual use of lawn chemicals that are functionally equivalent to combat nerve gases have also affected a number of my patients.
chinese medical techniques are uniquely helpful for many of the  emotional imbalances which are associated with traumatic experiences.
the oriental system of diagnosis is more individualized, so that patients' symptoms and signs lead to a customized treatment.
the  medicinal value of raw honey pain neutralization technique blood stasis &  chronic disease ear acupuncture recommended websites magic & medicine  lessons from magic school, part one lessons from magic school, part two lessons  from magic school, part three send us a comment some of the disorders we treat fertility and gynecologic problems  migraine, vascular, cluster, and tension headache sports and work-related  injuries, trauma before and after surgical procedures reducing the discomforts  and side effects of chemotherapy acupuncture for musculoskeletal disorders:  arthritis, tendonitis, and fibromyalgia acupuncture for allergy, asthma and  chronic sinus disease acupuncture for smoking cessation (also applies to other  forms of chronic tobacco use) fertility and gynecologic problems women who are having problems with conception, premenstrual symptoms, or  menopausal issues will often see positive results with oriental medicine.
sometimes scar-related symptoms are not obvious.
most modern cities have problems with air quality outdoors, and  indoor air is subject to pollution by furnishings, household chemicals,  cosmetics and pet dander.
it is unfortunate that more acupuncture is not provided to patients in  emergency rooms, because there are significant advantages to quickly addressing  pain and swelling without the possible side effects of drugs.
a more difficult aspect of the habit of smoking is the habitual associations of your smoking with other activities, such as driving, drinking coffee, etc.
chinese medicine  understands that pregnancy, delivery and nursing create tremendous demands on a  woman's physiology and reserve, and a variety of effective solutions are  available to help restore stamina and assist the adjustments to motherhood.
muscular or joint symptoms which worsen  with weather changes are also  common.
the treatment of gynecologic imbalances is a well established specialty in  oriental medicine.
it may be possible to reduce or eliminate the need for western pharmaceuticals.
in addition to the toxic effect on the  heart of chemotherapy and radiation, fear can create both physical and  emotional diorders of the heart.
before you start on  pharmaceutical drugs or have nerve blocks or more surgery, consider oriental  medicine.
symptoms associated with arthritis and fibromyalgia, such as problems sleeping, fatigue, and depression, can also respond to skillfully applied acupuncture.
overwhelming fatigue is also a problem which chinese medicine can reduce, and it may be possible to decrease the negative effect of chemotherapy and radiation on normal tissues.
the use of "herbs" is a specialty area of study in china, and is only practiced by dedicated physicians who have pursued advanced training.
before you start on pharmaceutical drugs or have nerve blocks or more surgery, consider oriental medicine.
sinus inflammation can also trigger facial headaches as well as "migraine" type vascular headaches.
for women who are experiencing disorders of conception, my own experience suggests that acupuncture and chinese herbology is more effective and much less unpleasant and dangerous than hormonal treatments or in vitro fertilization procedures.
as most physicians have  nothing other than more drugs to offer, an endless cycle of complications is  the result.
current practice with chinese medicine for gynecologic disorders emphasizes plant derived medicines, so it is important to see a physician with training in this area.
these can be very difficult to treat, as the  patient must be withdrawn from the headache drugs.
for  information on this, see the section onfertility and gynecologic problems.
top migraine, vascular, cluster, and tension headache physicians tend to like to classify headaches in one of the above  categories.
for women who are experiencing disorders of conception, my own experience  suggests that acupuncture and chinese herbology is more effective and much less  unpleasant and dangerous than hormonal treatments or in vitro fertilization  procedures.
both allergy and viral infections can trigger an asthmatic episode, as well as exposure to directly irritating substances such as smoke and cosmetic fragrances.
allergy to inhaled pollutants and pollen also contribute to asthmatic  diseases.
the use of acupuncture and dietary therapy can be very helpful to reduce or eliminate the signs and symptoms of allergic and irritant asthma and sinus disease.
5399 mayfield road :|:
top patients undergoing chemotherapy or radiation therapy should consider acupuncture and traditional chinese medicinals to reduce the nausea, fatigue and discomfort of treatment.
just as with other forms of surgery, acupuncture can be helpful in a variety of ways.
some  headaches are associated with changes in hormone levels, and are more  accurately seen as complications of premenstrual or menopausal imbalances.
i have seen very good results for professional athletes,  martial artists, performers, animal trainers and horsewomen.
ask for the brochure on how acupuncture can help you to stop smoking when you call our office.
acupuncture and plant medicines are also used for  scars that remain painful, or are causing referred pain.
top acupuncture for smoking cessation (also applies to other forms of chronic tobacco use)
ongoing research  in china and other countries is producing promising results in this area.
morning sickness, insomnia, fatigue, and mood changes can often be helped, and some of the discomforts that occur in the later stages of pregnancy, such as back and pelvic discomfort and swelling of the lower extremities, can be reduced.
lyndhurst, ohio 44124 :|: (440) 461-7488
a variety of studies have indicated the  effectiveness of acupuncture for the nausea that may accompany various  chemotherapy agents.
ongoing research in china and other countries is producing promising results in this area.
all sorts of trauma, from bruises to sprains to strains to concussions and  fractures, can be partially or completely treated with acupuncture and plant  derived medicines.
digestive disorders, fatigue, interruption of sleep and mood changes can also be addressed at the same time as treatment of the headache.
sinus inflammation  can also trigger facial headaches as well as "migraine" type vascular  headaches.
top © 2000-2010 dr. l.b. grotte m.d., all rights reserved.
in fact,  one of my acupuncture teachers from paris is so convinced of the value of this  approach that he will not treat for infertility unless the couple seeks  treatment together.
this is actually a very good idea to align and coordinate the male and female polarities.
tension type headaches,  often found at the base of the skull, can also lead to a migraine.
modern medications for these disorders commonly cause side effects  that are not seen with acupuncture treatment.
unani medicine commentary mythology of modern medicine america the heartless
a variety of studies have indicated the effectiveness of acupuncture for the nausea that may accompany various chemotherapy agents.
for example, i have seen chronic headaches cured by treatment of scars from plastic facial surgery.
however, i have seen very good results in motivated patients, and evidence is slowly accumulating in support of comprehensive integrated treatment.
the diagnosis of cancer causes a great deal of stress and can result in emotional imbalances and depression.
in addition, acupuncture and certain dietary changes may be helpful to  reduce many of the normal discomforts associated with pregnancy.
although this aspect of acupuncture is not well known to the  public, i always advise a patient to try to have treatment within 48 hours of  an injury.
in fact, one of my acupuncture teachers from paris is so convinced of the value of this approach that he will not treat for infertility unless the couple seeks treatment together.
trauma also inevitably involves emotional effects.
in reality, patients suffer a variety of headaches, and are more  accurately understood to have what i call a "mixed headache  disorder".
chinese medicine understands that pregnancy, delivery and nursing create tremendous demands on a woman's physiology and reserve, and a variety of effective solutions are available to help restore stamina and assist the adjustments to motherhood.
sinus symptoms may include  congestion, watery or sticky discharges, pain and pressure.
in addition to the toxic effect on the heart of chemotherapy and radiation, fear can create both physical and emotional diorders of the heart.
the pain of chronic diseases such as arthritis, tendonitis, and fibromylagia can often be lessened by the use of acupuncture and other oriental methods.
casual use of herbal medicine by amateurs and storefront "doctors" is not tolerated in countries where the value of extensive study and certification is understood.
i am seeing increasing numbers of people who suffer neuropathy and other neurologic problems as side effects of their treatment, and this can sometimes resolve very well with acupuncture and chinese dietary therapy.
the use of moxibustion or dietary treatment can be very helpful for relief in this area.
if you do restart smoking, even if it is weeks  or months later, we suggest that you schedule another treatment and again try  to stop before the habit reestablishes itself.
allergy to inhaled pollutants and pollen also contribute to asthmatic diseases.
the students could actually see the swelling decrease during the 20 minutes of the treatment and hear the patient's amazement at the pain relief and how much more flexibility she had.
i  remember the first case of this i saw: the patient had not listed her surgery  on the history form that i use, and so i did not check the scars for tenderness  as i usually do.
top physicians tend to like to classify headaches in one of the above categories.
in reality, patients suffer a variety of headaches, and are more accurately understood to have what i call a "mixed headache disorder".
i was puzzled as to why the headaches were not responding to my treatment, but once i noted the scars within the hairline, the picture became clear and the headaches responded to treatment.
for example, i have seen  chronic headaches cured by treatment of scars from plastic facial surgery.
what is already clear is that by overcoming the discomforts and emotional stress of treatment, a person's natural resources become more fully available.
surgery is really a type of trauma, but it is controlled by the  surgeon to achieve a particular result.
increases in red blood cells, white blood cells,  and platelets with appropriate treatment is a realistic goal, as well as other  improvements in blood chemistries which may be more subtle.
the addictive aspect of tobacco means that there is a variable withdrawal syndrome that people go through when they abruptly stop smoking.
symptoms which have only been recently recognized in the west, such as "premenstrual syndrome" or "premenstrual dysphoric disease", as well as many other syndromes which are hard to classify or tend to involve multiple organ systems, are more exactly diagnosed in the oriental system.
top reduce the discomforts and side effects of chemotherapy and surgery for  cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy or radiation therapy should consider  acupuncture and traditional chinese medicinals to reduce the nausea, fatigue  and discomfort of treatment.
a more difficult aspect of the habit of smoking is the habitual  associations of your smoking with other activities, such as driving, drinking  coffee, etc.
what  is already clear is that by overcoming the discomforts and emotional stress of  treatment, a person's natural resources become more fully available.
increases in red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets with appropriate treatment is a realistic goal, as well as other improvements in blood chemistries which may be more subtle.