but it goes against the grain to accept that, we like our answers in black and white not shades of gray.
it is likely that mao interpreted the more  serious problem to be one of economics, and the importance of keeping people  usefully employed within society, rather than the dangers of supporting a  potentially ineffective medicine.
after the end of the war, one of these researchers, western-trained dr. zhu lian, published a textbook of her work in the army that did qualify as new and scientific.
the new beijing chinese medical institute offered enrichment classes to chinese practitioners in preventive medicine, new acupuncture, and standardized chinese prescriptions.
in 1955 or 1956, china established the first academies of the newly renamed  “traditional chinese medicine.”
while alternative  explanations have been proposed, the surgery as originally described would have  compromised the intrapleural space and collapsed her lungs without  positive-pressure ventilation.
furthermore, many practitioners slide quickly into authoritarian interactions, or worse- insulated by money away from the social determinants of their patients’ diseases, they may come to think that their life represents a personal example that their slothful, slovenly patients should- must- follow.
the person in line at the kitchen telling jokes about the food might well be responsible for managing an epidemic of food-borne illness if the jokes turned out to be true.
our colloquial  understanding of the program here in the west is grounded largely in  romanticism and propaganda.
there were, allegedly, multiple manuals appropriate for each province, focusing on more geographically appropriate treatments and conditions.
furthermore, educating enough doctors to provide health care to all the newly  reorganized collectives in china would have been a difficult task in the best  of times, and these were not the best of times.
certification exams were instituted, and existing practitioners were eligible only for temporary certificates, and then only if they “enjoyed good repute among the people.”
after the end of the war, one of these researchers,  western-trained dr. zhu lian, published a textbook of her work in the army that  did qualify as new and scientific.
china’s current minister of health, a physician, began  as a barefoot doctor.
it is likely that mao interpreted the more serious problem to be one of economics, and the importance of keeping people usefully employed within society, rather than the dangers of supporting a potentially ineffective medicine.
i noticed that in my position of retail associate, whenever i expressed anything other than total certainty, customers appeared uneasy.
she rebelliously chose to ignore his prescription for good health (i.e., changing her “bad habits”) until she noticed that she was losing her hair, her pride and joy.
(taylor, k.chinese medicine in communist  china, 1945-63: a medicine of revolution.
often, this  meant re-education or, often for doctors, compulsory service “in the  country” but it also meant a lot of executions and- oddly-
list of medications mentioned in the barefoot doctor’s manual what is interesting and undeniable about the barefoot doctors is  that they were, ultimately, quickly and effectively trained, served without  requiring enormous salaries, and were at least on some level closer in social  status to their patients than doctors are in the us today.
even in med school, i have been told by instructors never to show doubt or  uncertainty, and to take control of a patient interaction with authority.
china, the  oldest bureaucracy on earth, had spent a humiliating century as a virtual trade  colony, first to the english and portugese, then to japan.
on completing their training, they would return to their  home commune and continue to work in their previous capacity as a farmer or a  factory worker.
i’ve had a dozen conflicting certainties.
get every new post delivered to your inbox.
it is worth pointing out that the korean war, which had just ended, had set communist china in full conflict with the capitalist west, and the first rumblings of the 1961 denunciation of the soviet union were straining the diplomacy between the world’s two communist superpowers.
the new beijing chinese medical institute  offered enrichment classes to chinese practitioners in preventive medicine, new  acupuncture, and standardized chinese prescriptions.
it only keeps them going to more doctors for answers.
this is a  level of social levelling i have experienced as a paramedic, and seen even with  physicians in very small towns, but which is overall lacking in the us.
traditional chinese medicine may not be traditional in  its current form, but it is absolutely and irrevocably chinese.
furthermore, many practitioners slide quickly into  authoritarian interactions, or worse- insulated by money away from the social  determinants of their patients’ diseases, they may come to think that  their life represents a personal example that their slothful, slovenly patients  should- must- follow.
western-trained  practitioners were few and urban.
only 14,000 practitioners  passed the new exams with scores of 50% in part one and 60% in part two (the  minima for certification) and in some regions the fail rate was 90%.
with their short training  period, autonomous practice and promiscuous embrace ofmateriae medicae , the barefoot doctors appealed to the diy counterculture in the us and europe,  indeed the blurb on the back of my translation ofa
the functional, and politically acceptable solution was to inaugurate a new training program for the “peasants and workers” themselves.
books i’ve mentioned or recommended ←  sociobiology 2: jeremy rifkin on empathy completely off topic –  condoms prevent hiv transmission→ medicine in context 3 : barefoot doctors posted on 18/11/2010 by  anne amnesia (blog author)
this is a level of social levelling i have experienced as a paramedic, and seen even with physicians in very small towns, but which is overall lacking in the us.
“traditional” chinese medicine after winning the chinese civil war, the new communist government inherited  a country containing ten to twenty thousand doctors of western medicine,  approximately 500,000 doctors of chinese medicine, and a population of well  over 500 million.
it is reasonable to  assume that these existed, and it is reasonable to assume that barefoot doctors  who had been issued penicillin (good then as now against syphillis) and
you are commenting using your twitter account.
james reston’s famous article on how he had  his appendix removed under acupuncture anesthesia started a revolution in the  us- but in fact, his acupuncture was augmented with lidocaine and narcotic  analgesics, something often not mentioned in secondary sources.
a blogger friend of mine recently wrote about the experience of having a doctor “issue pronouncements about other people’s bad habits,” in her case, type 2 diabetes.
in evaluating the barefoot doctor program, one must always be mindful of  the political circumstances that led to its creation, and the restriction these  pressures have placed on evaluation and historiography.
doctors, after all, would be a privileged class of technocratic intellectuals, and would not be able to join with the peasants and workers.
they weren’t expected to go without shoes, but the term “barefoot doctor” came to represent this enforced humility.
this, ultimately for me, is the lesson of the barefoot doctors.
i enjoyed your livejournal blog, i look forward to reading more of your new blog.
powered by wordpress.com
for instance, despite a formal intent to create proletarian health care, possibly 20% of barefoot doctors went on to become professional doctors of western medicine.
many of the specific drugs have been replaced by safer or simpler drugs, but the overall balance between classes is largely the same.
the only formal educational requirement was a high school diploma.
it is worth pointing out that the korean war, which had just ended, had set  communist china in full conflict with the capitalist west, and the first  rumblings of the 1961 denunciation of the soviet union were straining the  diplomacy between the world’s two communist superpowers.
chinese medicine at the time was secretive and unpublished,  often hereditary, and diagnoses and treatments varied widely between  practitioners.
the only formal educational requirement was a  high school diploma.
the new national health insurance did not cover chinese medicine.
cancel connecting to %s notify me of follow-up comments via email.
each brigade or factory lived, cooked, managed property, and received public services as a single unit, including food rations and, eventually, health care.
the version translated into english, from hunan, contains no  information on mental health conditions, and no stds.
mao’s support of chinese medicine during this time can be linked to a concern for adequate health care manpower, and by extrapolation, to a concern for social stability.
it is entirely possible that barefoot doctors used no herbs at all when western tour groups weren’t watching.
china, the oldest bureaucracy on earth, had spent a humiliating century as a virtual trade colony, first to the english and portugese, then to japan.
the cultural revolution and the rcms
brigades and communes would be able to designate members who showed an academic aptitude as well as an acceptable political outlook to undergo a training that lasted as little as six months.
this single, unified system, taught  academically, was to replace the variable undocumented oral traditions of  earlier chinese practice.
doctors can choose to be reassuring parent-figures with all the answers to their patients/clients problems, or they can choose to be allies and expert resources for their patients/clients seeking solutions to their medical and health issues.
good luck in your medical student career.
this, ultimately for me, is the lesson of  the barefoot doctors.
on completing their training, they would return to their home commune and continue to work in their previous capacity as a farmer or a factory worker.
secondly, the contemporary claims made for the efficacy of tcm in health care are somewhat dubious.
academies throughout china began offering  enrichment classes to doctors of chinese medicine who wished to  “scientize” and standardize their practice, although those who  worked with the ministry of health were generally relegated to promoting  hygiene, nutrition and immunizations.
you are commenting using your facebook account.
markers of public health were poor, and the eyes of the world were on china.
life is complicated and so is technology, definitive answers are often too narrow to really be answers.
everyone, not just nurses on communes or rural chinese,  can do a great deal better than that.
the version translated into english, from hunan, contains no information on mental health conditions, and no stds.
it is entirely possible that  barefoot doctors used no herbs at all when western tour groups weren’t
eventually, however, the gap had to be closed, and the early 1950′s  saw a series of disastrous attempts to regularize chinese practitioners.
furthermore, it  is likely that separate regions, separate heirarchies, and even individual  practitioners had their own prejudices about when to use the western, herbal,  or acupuncture treatment modalities in the book.
academies throughout china began offering enrichment classes to doctors of chinese medicine who wished to “scientize” and standardize their practice, although those who worked with the ministry of health were generally relegated to promoting hygiene, nutrition and immunizations.
the new  national health insurance did not cover chinese medicine.
western-trained practitioners were few and urban.
traditional chinese medicine may not be traditional in its current form, but it is absolutely and irrevocably chinese.
chinese medicine at the time was secretive and unpublished, often hereditary, and diagnoses and treatments varied widely between practitioners.
one imagines that many of the high school graduates who entered the program would have rather gone to medical school in the first place, but were unable to do so due to economic and political pressures of the time.
everyone, not just nurses on communes or rural chinese, can do a great deal better than that.
the emergence  of the barefoot doctors.
i think most of us are socialized to expect definite answers and don’t like not getting them.
since the 1971 explosion of information in the us about “traditional” chinese medicine, the barefoot doctors have been heavily romanticized by westerners looking for a more friendly vision of what health care could be.
it is reasonable to assume that these existed, and it is reasonable to assume that barefoot doctors who had been issued penicillin (good then as now against syphillis) and chlorpromazine (listed in the manual as a “tranquilizer”) would probably have been familiar with these less decorous disorders.
reply i find the link you point out between false fronts of certainty and authoritarianism interesting.
a ps- (now see why it took so long to write?)
the great proletarian cultural revolution was a period during which the cpc attempted to purge the entire nation of china, but especially the echelons of power, of the influence of “liberal bourgeois elites.”
brigades and communes would be able to designate members who showed an academic  aptitude as well as an acceptable political outlook to undergo a training that  lasted as little as six months.
the same person who  came to a barefoot doctor for antibiotics may have been wrestling bales of feed  onto a truck with their doctor only hours earlier.
many of the  specific drugs have been replaced by safer or simpler drugs, but the overall  balance between classes is largely the same.
in  general, practitioners occupy a lofty social station from which they descend  only to issue pronouncements about other people’s bad habits, and  occasionally to run for public office.
some patients prefer the parent-figure and some the ally, so it is not an easy choice.
i find much fascinating in the barefoot doctors program, but for reasons that should soon be clear i do not endorse this idea.
eventually, however, the gap had to be closed, and the early 1950′s saw a series of disastrous attempts to regularize chinese practitioners.
secondly, the contemporary claims made for the efficacy of tcm in health  care are somewhat dubious.
during the war, researchers with the general health department of the people’s army had developed what would come to be called “the new acupuncture” as a portable treatment modality appropriate for guerilla warfare.
even in med school, i have been told by instructors never to show doubt or uncertainty, and to take control of a patient interaction with authority.
a listing of the medications mentioned in the manual is also instructive, as is a comparison to the who’slist of essential medicines.
“traditional” chinese medicine after winning the chinese civil war, the new communist government inherited a country containing ten to twenty thousand doctors of western medicine, approximately 500,000 doctors of chinese medicine, and a population of well over 500 million.
or worse, locks them in a treatment regimen that is ineffective or potentially harmful.
furthermore, educating enough doctors to provide health care to all the newly reorganized collectives in china would have been a difficult task in the best of times, and these were not the best of times.
the emergence of the barefoot doctors.
while alternative explanations have been proposed, the surgery as originally described would have compromised the intrapleural space and collapsed her lungs without positive-pressure ventilation.
one imagines that many of the high school graduates who  entered the program would have rather gone to medical school in the first  place, but were unable to do so due to economic and political pressures of the  time.
many articles  have been written on a single photo taken of a woman undergoing heart surgery  with only acupuncture anesthesia- and no ventilator.
to a great degree, these two characteristics are up for significant debate.
mao’s support of chinese medicine during this time can be linked  to a concern for adequate health care manpower, and by extrapolation, to a  concern for social stability.
james reston’s famous article on how he had his appendix removed under acupuncture anesthesia started a revolution in the us- but in fact, his acupuncture was augmented with lidocaine and narcotic analgesics, something often not mentioned in secondary sources.
however, it is also  sometimes highly dishonest to act confident or authoritative, and even when  physicians do have a degree of certainty- that smoking is bad e.g.- giving  instructions from a position of authority seems much less pleasant to me than  giving advice at eye level.
for up to half their working day, however, they could function as an unpretentious, unbourgeois primary care physician, albeit at the same hourly rate as the other half of their day.
and these were fairly trivial matters compared to one’s health.
mao had commanded that post-revolutionary china would be “new,” “scientific,” and “unified” and this had to include healthcare.
we can’t know this, but we can’t assume otherwise either.
to  some extent this is what patients expect- its what they’ve grown up with,  after all- and to behave otherwise is to seem un-doctorly.
i also agree that doctors do us no favours appearing certain of the diagnosis when it is by no means certain.
the ministry of  health came under attack for its policies, and in 1954 mao dictated that  “scientizing” chinese medicine would not be sufficient to bring  about his goal of a unified health care system.
the functional, and politically acceptable solution was to inaugurate a new  training program for the “peasants and workers” themselves.
(you can read more on the subject here)
however, it is also sometimes highly dishonest to act confident or authoritative, and even when physicians do have a degree of certainty- that smoking is bad e.g.- giving instructions from a position of authority seems much less pleasant to me than giving advice at eye level.
she read somewhere that hair loss was a symptom of diabetes and that made her far more motivated to do something about it than anything the doctor had said.
accordingly, the barefoot doctor’s handbook should be read with a  skeptical eye.
the political ideology of the cultural revolution effectively prohibited educating a class of professional doctors, in the sense we think of them today.
there were few medical records and no oversight.
instead, something rigorous  would have to be re-created from the ground up.
their training included an intensive background in public health and sanitation, a stripped-down western-style pharmaceutical toolkit, acupuncture and herbs.
mao had commanded that post-revolutionary china would be “new,”  “scientific,” and “unified” and this had to include  healthcare.
each brigade or factory lived, cooked, managed property, and received  public services as a single unit, including food rations and, eventually,  health care.
our colloquial understanding of the program here in the west is grounded largely in romanticism and propaganda.
(taylor, k.chinese medicine in communist china, 1945-63: a medicine of revolution.
to some extent this is what patients expect- its what they’ve grown up with, after all- and to behave otherwise is to seem un-doctorly.
with their short training period, autonomous practice and promiscuous embrace ofmateriae medicae , the barefoot doctors appealed to the diy counterculture in the us and europe, indeed the blurb on the back of my translation ofa barefoot doctor’s manual is from the whole earth catalogue review, and ends with the statement “if i were a nurse on a commune, this would be my main source book.”
but what were they like?
instead, something rigorous would have to be re-created from the ground up.
many articles have been written on a single photo taken of a woman undergoing heart surgery with only acupuncture anesthesia- and no ventilator.
for a while, this compromise- hiring traditional practitioners, but only in peripherally medical capacities- seemed to work.
accordingly, the barefoot doctor’s handbook should be read with a skeptical eye.
their training included an intensive  background in public health and sanitation, a stripped-down western-style  pharmaceutical toolkit, acupuncture and herbs.
doctors, after all, would be a privileged class of technocratic  intellectuals, and would not be able to join with the peasants and workers.
a listing of the medications mentioned in the manual is also instructive,  as is a comparison to the who’slist of essential medicines.
at the head of the beijing research academy was none  other than new acupuncture founder zhu lian.
“patriotism” in the middle kingdom required embracing a chinese  identity, not only in politics and national identity, but in the sciences and  medicine as well.
during the war, researchers with the general health department of  the people’s army had developed what would come to be called “the  new acupuncture” as a portable treatment modality appropriate for  guerilla warfare.
in general, practitioners occupy a lofty social station from which they descend only to issue pronouncements about other people’s bad habits, and occasionally to run for public office.
at the head of the beijing research academy was none other than new acupuncture founder zhu lian.
in 1955 or 1956, china established the first academies of the newly renamed “traditional chinese medicine.”
beginning in the “great leap forward,” productive life  throughout china was reorganized into brigades and communes- entire communities  focused on a single productive enterprise, be it a collective farm or a  factory.
if the chinese medical practitioners were ignore  and not forcibly, as it were, integrated into the new communist society, and if  their medicine was not encouraged, it would mean hundreds of thousands of  people without any means of support.
chlorpromazine (listed in the manual as a “tranquilizer”) would  probably have been familiar with these less decorous disorders.
“patriotism” in the middle kingdom required embracing a chinese identity, not only in politics and national identity, but in the sciences and medicine as well.
perhaps to express doubt or uncertainty is to transgress the social order.
in evaluating the barefoot doctor program, one must always be mindful of the political circumstances that led to its creation, and the restriction these pressures have placed on evaluation and historiography.
people in our society are socialized to expect definite answers, even though they so rarely are so definite.
the ministry of health came under attack for its policies, and in 1954 mao dictated that “scientizing” chinese medicine would not be sufficient to bring about his goal of a unified health care system.
list of medications mentioned in the barefoot doctor’s manual what is interesting and undeniable about the barefoot doctors is that they were, ultimately, quickly and effectively trained, served without requiring enormous salaries, and were at least on some level closer in social status to their patients than doctors are in the us today.
the political ideology of the cultural revolution effectively  prohibited educating a class of professional doctors, in the sense we think of  them today.
living on the patient side of a undiagnosable condition, i can tell you that the practice of bluffing patients with certainty does them no favors.
to quote the book i’m using as a source, here: mao evidently saw the profession of chinese medicine not so much as a  therapeutic practice, but more as a large, and therefore significant, body of  people.
people in our society are also socialized to take orders and place orders.
the rcms ended in 1981, and a brief pilot program to revive it in the early 90′s focused more on the financial arrangements of insuring rural china than on the treatment modalities or the de-professionalization of the barefoot doctors.
reply i agree with both comments above.
created as part of the rural cooperative medical system in china during the  cultural revolution, the “barefoot doctors” were rapidly trained  farmers and factory workers who served in their home communities as a sort of  volunteer fire department of primary care.
new york, routledge. 2005.)
it is with trepidation that i bring up the barefoot doctors of china.
for a while, this compromise- hiring  traditional practitioners, but only in peripherally medical capacities- seemed  to work.
the great proletarian cultural revolution was a period during which the cpc  attempted to purge the entire nation of china, but especially the echelons of  power, of the influence of “liberal bourgeois elites.”
often, this meant re-education or, often for doctors, compulsory service “in the country” but it also meant a lot of executions and- oddly-
if one’s children go to the right sort of school, one might run into a doctor at a pta ice cream social, but the economy depends on few of us going to that sort of school.
they weren’t expected to go  without shoes, but the term “barefoot doctor” came to represent  this enforced humility.
beginning in the “great leap forward,” productive life throughout china was reorganized into brigades and communes- entire communities focused on a single productive enterprise, be it a collective farm or a factory.
here, china is following in the footsteps of the soviet  union, which rejected “bourgeois genetics” in favor of lysenkoism;  in many ways the chinese were lucky, since unlike comrade trofim’s  eternal punchline, chinese medicine did actually have a multi-millenial history  of empiric refinement.
for up to half their working day, however, they could function  as an unpretentious, unbourgeois primary care physician, albeit at the same  hourly rate as the other half of their day.
if one’s children go to the right  sort of school, one might run into a doctor at a pta ice cream social, but the  economy depends on few of us going to that sort of school.
certification exams were instituted, and existing practitioners were eligible  only for temporary certificates, and then only if they “enjoyed good  repute among the people.”
there were, allegedly, multiple manuals appropriate for each  province, focusing on more geographically appropriate treatments and  conditions.
reply fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: you are commenting using your wordpress.com account.
here, china is following in the footsteps of the soviet union, which rejected “bourgeois genetics” in favor of lysenkoism; in many ways the chinese were lucky, since unlike comrade trofim’s eternal punchline, chinese medicine did actually have a multi-millenial history of empiric refinement.
if the good doctor had gotten down from the soapbox and actually discussed what such a diagnosis really meant for her personally, she might have taken it more seriously sooner.
for instance, despite a formal intent to create proletarian health care,  possibly 20% of barefoot doctors went on to become professional doctors of  western medicine.
furthermore, it is likely that separate regions, separate heirarchies, and even individual practitioners had their own prejudices about when to use the western, herbal, or acupuncture treatment modalities in the book.
i won’t pretend to answer whether tcm “works” or not (see  my last entry on why) but it is worth noticing that the chinese government was  willing, in the 1970′s, to fudge data to convince the world that it did.
only 14,000 practitioners passed the new exams with scores of 50% in part one and 60% in part two (the minima for certification) and in some regions the fail rate was 90%.
if the chinese medical practitioners were ignore and not forcibly, as it were, integrated into the new communist society, and if their medicine was not encouraged, it would mean hundreds of thousands of people without any means of support.
since the 1971 explosion of  information in the us about “traditional” chinese medicine, the  barefoot doctors have been heavily romanticized by westerners looking for a  more friendly vision of what health care could be.
barefoot doctor’s  manual is from the whole earth catalogue review, and ends with the statement  “if i were a nurse on a commune, this would be my main source  book.”
the person in line at the  kitchen telling jokes about the food might well be responsible for managing an  epidemic of food-borne illness if the jokes turned out to be true.
i find much fascinating in the barefoot doctors program, but for  reasons that should soon be clear i do not endorse this idea.
to quote the book i’m using as a source, here: mao evidently saw the profession of chinese medicine not so much as a therapeutic practice, but more as a large, and therefore significant, body of people.
to a great degree, these two  characteristics are up for significant debate.
markers of public health were poor, and the  eyes of the world were on china.
created as part of the rural cooperative medical system in china during the cultural revolution, the “barefoot doctors” were rapidly trained farmers and factory workers who served in their home communities as a sort of volunteer fire department of primary care.
china’s current minister of health, a physician, began as a barefoot doctor.
the same person who came to a barefoot doctor for antibiotics may have been wrestling bales of feed onto a truck with their doctor only hours earlier.
i won’t pretend to answer whether tcm “works” or not (see my last entry on why) but it is worth noticing that the chinese government was willing, in the 1970′s, to fudge data to convince the world that it did.
the rcms ended in 1981, and a brief pilot program  to revive it in the early 90′s focused more on the financial arrangements  of insuring rural china than on the treatment modalities or the  de-professionalization of the barefoot doctors.
this single, unified system, taught academically, was to replace the variable undocumented oral traditions of earlier chinese practice.