from my years of clinical experience on integrative medicine, i have got a deep understanding that both chinese medicines and western medicines have their advantages and shortcomings.
we know that traditional herbal decoction pays particular attentions to compounding chinese herbs that play different roles as master, deputy, assistant, and envoy at doses adjusted to the condition of individual patients to achieve the desired outcome.
the above-mentioned  successful cases indicate that traditional chinese medicine may deal with quite  a wide range of health conditions, even for conditions that are not readily  explained by theories of western medicine.
i also use guang ci tang's fang feng tong sheng pian  to treat patients for different conditions, such as colds with mixed symptoms,  slight constipation, itching skin and pollen allergy, and obtained very  satisfactory results.
by integrating them into treatments, we can make best use of the advantages and bypass the disadvantages.
their symptoms included  abdomen distending before menstrual period and irregular menses.
to provide my patients with a more effective and comprehensive service, i obtained the acupuncture license of california.
he was concerned of the procedure and came to my clinic for treatment.
we should pay attention to combining different chinese medicines and adjusting doses even for the same symptom as it may be caused by different underlying reasons at different patients.
by integrating them into treatments, we can make best use of the advantages and  bypass the disadvantages.
this product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or  prevent any disease.
the  other factor is choosing good chinese medicines.
we know that  traditional herbal decoction pays particular attentions to compounding chinese  herbs that play different roles as master, deputy, assistant, and envoy at  doses adjusted to the condition of individual patients to achieve the desired  outcome.
they had been  suffering from this painful illness for a long time.
to those who are afraid of certain treatment methods of western medicine, chinese medicine also offers an alternative treatment option.
contents in www.activeherb.com is for information purpose  only and are written to our best knowledge and expertise for the scientific  accuracy.
my clinical practice has proven that guang ci tang is indeed a  supreme brand that enjoys great praises among chinese medicine practitioners in  america.
the future is bright in  integrating traditional chinese medicine and western medicine to benefit human  health.
i prescribed him nei xiao luo li pian of guang ci tang brand.
from my years of clinical  experience on integrative medicine, i have got a deep understanding that both  chinese medicines and western medicines have their advantages and shortcomings.
here i share some cases in this aspect.
after one week treatment, their symptoms were relieved by 70%.
the same chinese medicine of different brands can have great  variance in quality.
the above-mentioned successful cases indicate that traditional chinese medicine may deal with quite a wide range of health conditions, even for conditions that are not readily explained by theories of western medicine.
in such cases,  doctors usually just prescribe some pain killers, which do not help much.
he was  concerned of the procedure and came to my clinic for treatment.
as chinese herbal practitioners, we should be very careful in choosing  quality chinese medicines because no matter how skillful a doctor is, it will  be just one step short of success when poor quality herbs are used by mistake.
even more impressively, i used a  combination ofling qiao jie du pian and bu zhong yi qi pian of guang ci tang to  deal with paranasal sinusitis with symptoms of headache and lung qi obstruction  in over 50 cases and got remarkable results.
as most hospitals in the usa do not  integrate traditional chinese medicine in their programs, several years ago, i  founded a clinic integrating tcm and western medicine outside our hospital,  serving the need of those who believe in tcm and prefer to combine it with  their western medicine treatment.
i subsequently prescribed xue fu zhu yu pian for them and achieved very satisfactory results.
with gui pi pian and xiao yao pian, i have successfully treated patients with symptoms of insomnia and dreaminess, which were caused by stress at work.
once a disgnosis is properly made according to dialectical treatment theory of tradition chinese medicine and right chinese medicines are prescribed, magic result is often to be expected.
some patients at their 40's or 50's often feel distress in  chest, ecg examinations ordered by doctors of western medicine do not reveal  any abnormity, thus a correct diagnosis cannot be reached.
after they came to my clinic and were diagnosed with traditional chinese medicine, i found tongues of these patients were dark red and their hands and feet chilled, suggesting that their blood circulation is stagnated.
the same principle also applies to the modern scientifically concentrated chinese medicines.
i also use guang ci tang's fang feng tong sheng pian to treat patients for different conditions, such as colds with mixed symptoms, slight constipation, itching skin and pollen allergy, and obtained very satisfactory results.
now i am engaged in the family practice and preventive medicine in the san francisco general hospital.
currently some poor quality chinese medicines exist on the  market.
before i came to study in america, i had worked with integrated traditional chinese medicine (tcm) and western medicine in two municipal hospitals of shanghai for 15 years.
after  they came to my clinic and were diagnosed with traditional chinese medicine, i  found tongues of these patients were dark red and their hands and feet chilled,  suggesting that their blood circulation is stagnated.
with the constant advance of modern technologies, i believe that  chinese medicines will embrace new developments.
currently some poor quality chinese medicines exist on the market.
their symptoms included abdomen distending before menstrual period and irregular menses.
the same chinese medicine of different brands can have great variance in quality.
however, two factors are essential to achieve the best result.
they are not to replace the advice of your physicians.
after  another 3-6 treatment regimen, most of them were totally recovered from  dysmenorrheal.
the future is bright in integrating traditional chinese medicine and western medicine to benefit human health.
even more impressively, i used a combination ofling qiao jie
the research  cited in our contents are published in scientific journals and have not  subjected to the fda evaluation.
his lymph lump disappeared soon after.
as most hospitals in the usa do not integrate traditional chinese medicine in their programs, several years ago, i founded a clinic integrating tcm and western medicine outside our hospital, serving the need of those who believe in tcm and prefer to combine it with their western medicine treatment.
in such cases, doctors usually just prescribe some pain killers, which do not help much.
several female patients used to have dysmenorrheal.
the same principle also applies to the modern scientifically  concentrated chinese medicines.
i chose to use guang ci tang chinese medicines produced by shanghai tonghanchun  herbs factory, a leading tcm manufacturers in china with a history of over two  hundred years.
for brands of patent chinese  medicines, their place of origin, quality and reputation are all very  important.
activeherb technology, inc., 11588 sorrento valley road, suite 17, san diego,  ca 92121 †these statements have not been evaluated by the food and  drug administration.
my clinical practice has proven that guang ci tang is indeed a supreme brand that enjoys great praises among chinese medicine practitioners in america.
once a disgnosis is properly made  according to dialectical treatment theory of tradition chinese medicine and  right chinese medicines are prescribed, magic result is often to be expected.
after they  later came to me for treatment, i gave them yi mu cao chong ji andxiao yao pian  of guang ci tang and told them to take these medicines three weeks after their  menses.
they went for western  medicine but found western medicines had too many side effects.
one is  prescribing chinese medicines according to the symptoms.
we reserve the copyright to protect our  contents.
my account | 1-858-847-7310 | 中文
they had been suffering from this painful illness for a long time.
a patient was diagnosed to have lymph node enlargement and needed to do a biopsy.
after another 3-6 treatment regimen, most of them were totally recovered from dysmenorrheal.
one is prescribing chinese medicines according to the symptoms.
to provide my  patients with a more effective and comprehensive service, i obtained the  acupuncture license of california.
learn more about guang ci tang shop with guang ci tang patent chinese  medicine productsnow home |  about activeherb |  contact us | privacy policy | where to buy locally |  wholesale order help: ways to order | mail order |  邮购 |  shipping cost | return policy | international order | order faq (c) 2003-2011, activeherb technology, inc.
with the constant advance of modern technologies, i believe that chinese medicines will embrace new developments.
before i came to study in america, i had worked with integrated  traditional chinese medicine (tcm) and western medicine in two municipal  hospitals of shanghai for 15 years.
his lymph lump disappeared soon  after.
(translated from the original in chinese)
they went for western medicine but found western medicines had too many side effects.
the no. 1 place  americans shop chinese herbs search: thoughts on successful application  of guang ci tang chinese medicines (the chinese medical report, may 15,  2008) by junting liu, l. ac.
we should pay attention to combining different  chinese medicines and adjusting doses even for the same symptom as it may be  caused by different underlying reasons at different patients.
after they later came to me for treatment, i gave them yi mu cao chong ji andxiao yao pian of guang ci tang and told them to take these medicines three weeks after their menses.
du pian and bu zhong yi qi pian of guang ci tang to deal with paranasal sinusitis with symptoms of headache and lung qi obstruction in over 50 cases and got remarkable results.
a patient was  diagnosed to have lymph node enlargement and needed to do a biopsy.
activeherb technology, inc., 11588 sorrento valley road, suite 17, san diego, ca 92121
with gui pi pian and xiao yao pian, i have  successfully treated patients with symptoms of insomnia and dreaminess, which  were caused by stress at work.
for brands of patent chinese medicines, their place of origin, quality and reputation are all very important.
as chinese herbal practitioners, we should be very careful in choosing quality chinese medicines because no matter how skillful a doctor is, it will be just one step short of success when poor quality herbs are used by mistake.
to those who are afraid of certain treatment methods  of western medicine, chinese medicine also offers an alternative treatment  option.
(c) 2003-2011, activeherb technology, inc.
any reproduction without in its entirety and without explicit credits  to activeherb is prohibited.
i chose to use guang ci tang chinese medicines produced by shanghai tonghanchun herbs factory, a leading tcm manufacturers in china with a history of over two hundred years.
the other factor is choosing good chinese medicines.
some patients at their 40's or 50's often feel distress in chest, ecg examinations ordered by doctors of western medicine do not reveal any abnormity, thus a correct diagnosis cannot be reached.
now i am engaged in the family practice and  preventive medicine in the san francisco general hospital.