extraordinary efforts have been made by the authors, the editor and the publisher of the national center of continuing education, inc. courses to ensure dosage recommendations and treatments are precise and agree with the highest standards of practice.
some theorize that these herbs can protect against certain estrogen-related cancers as they provide relief for the estrogen-dependent symptoms of menopause.
it is theorized that the isoflavones found in soy proteins affect the body in a metabolically and hormonally complex way to lower cholesterol levels, and may reduce the rates of some cancers by slowing cell replication.
this category is divided into two sections: naturopathic and herbal remedies homeopathic remedies to some extent, the alternative therapies covered so far fall into the  broad category of "naturopathic" medicine because they are aimed at  helping the body to heal itself using natural substances and processes.
since it is associated with youth and vitality, it is natural to wonder if replacing it as one gets older would retard the aging process.
dong quai is used to relieve menstrual cramps, symptoms of  menopause, and other gynecological problems.
for example, an osteopath that follows the typical structure of the 15-minute office visit might be unable to respond to questions that might come up during the course of treatment.
the increasing use of surgery and pharmacology today to treat diseases, along with the increase in life expectancy because of these procedures, has dramatically increased health care costs.
chiropractic medicine's greatest strength lies in its treatment of musculoskeletal problems such as sprains, low back problems, headaches, neck stiffness, and joint conditions.
these processes can be hard on the body and are not recommended for recovering drug addicts, alcoholics, diabetics, or those with eating disorders without strict medical supervision.
figure 1 the number of sessions depends on the illness treated, as well as on the needs of the individual.
studies confirm that the quality of medical knowledge of mds and dos is comparable.
pharmaceutical intervention is mildly helpful in treating cfs, and includes  the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents for joint pain and low doses of  antidepressants to reset disturbed sleep patterns.
it can last for years, but sufferers often do not look sick, and may be labeled as lazy or mentally unstable.
when several symptoms are involved, the minor ones disappear before the  major ones do.
it is also used as an antidepressant, and an antiviral in conditions ranging from the common cold to hiv.
the national center of continuing education, inc. does not accept commercial support on any course nor do they endorse any products that may be mentioned in the course.
the main oils used are: some of these essential oils are applied topically, and others breathed in.
enzyme therapy is used to treat digestive problems from an individual's lack of an enzyme or the proper amount of the enzyme needed for healthy digestion to occur.
garlic is probably the most recognized medicinal herb  among researchers.
those who space their appointments further apart can be flexible should additional time be needed.
in such cases, massage is not recommended unless affected areas of the body can be worked around.
this not only improves quality of life, but also helps to reduce the astronomical costs of health care.
examples are elimination diet, skin testing, blood tests,  electro acupuncture, biofeedback, and thyroid functioning.
there are several variations of structural/functional methods.
on the average, treatments are once or twice a week for several weeks, with appointments spaced further apart as the treatment progresses.
its major side effects, which occur at very high doses, include nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
the practitioner assesses many seemingly unrelated areas such as sleep and elimination patterns, digestion, emotional makeup, sex drive, and menstrual patterns.
interestingly, it was a homeopathic physician who was instrumental in the  formation of the fda.
they have the distinct advantage of having few side  effects when taken in a wide range of supplemental doses and are ideal for use  as preventive agents in healthy populations.
the homeopath treats the symptoms  rather than the disease itself, and believes that the whole person is healed in  a way that is foreign to the thinking of allopathic medicine.
illness is the result of flaws in musculoskeletal structure that impact the nervous system and cause disease in corresponding parts of the body.
28801 or orthomolecular medicine online at www.orthomed.org a cure for the common cold has eluded researchers for decades and, while  zinc does not technically qualify as a cure, there is some evidence to support  the claim that zinc lozenges can reduce the aggravating symptoms of the common  cold, and reduce the duration of symptoms.
of these 16% had actually used it themselves in the clinical setting while the rest had referred patients to other practitioners.
good health is more than just the absence of illness.
they are effective against viral, fungal, parasitic, and bacterial infections, as well as circulatory irregularities, chronic fatigue syndrome, arthritis, allergies, cancer, and multiple sclerosis.
it may cause some tingling, aching, numbness, and/or a feeling of warmth and heaviness.
it is often used in support group settings where everyone is in the process simultaneously, and can share their responses.
some hmos are developing alternative medicine departments to include these new methods in the health care packages they offer their customers.
they stress the importance of focusing on strengthening the vital force instead of searching for offending pathogens.
by the 1960s, a few people, including the french doctor jean valnet and the austrian-born biochemist madame marguerite maury, were inspired by gattefoss,'s work.
other studies show that dos entering the primary care fields, especially those entering family practice, are more likely to use manipulative techniques in their practice than those entering more specialized fields.
as the role of nurses in the health care delivery process shifts from the traditional hospital setting to private practices, community and business organizations, and home health care, nurses will be in a position to educate the public about these complementary approaches to modern medicine.
nursing diagnoses which might lead a nurse to suggest a patient try a chinese medicine practitioner (especially if the patient has already undergone treatment by a western trained physician and had limited results) include: acupuncture is part of the chinese system of medicine - a philosophy of healing - developed over thousands of years.
human growth hormone declines gradually  after middle age.
st. john's wort is a remedy used for nearly two thousand  years for its anti-inflammatory effects, and sedative and pain reducing  properties.
it is also used as an antidepressant, and  an antiviral in conditions ranging from the common cold to hiv.
this concept from physics has to do with the measurement of strain on metal materials and its ability to withstand pressure.
thought-field therapy is used in the treatment of negative or upsetting emotions and has been found to be especially useful in the relief of chronic worrying, anxiety, panic disorders, phobias, and memories surrounding traumatic events.
this is extremely important because studies have shown that although women are, for the most part, protected against heart disease until menopause occurs, once estrogen levels drop dramatically, women have the same risk as men for developing heart disease.
dhea, a hormone produced by the adrenal gland that reaches its peak at about the age of 30 and drops significantly by age 60, has been reported to cure aging, promote weight loss, prevent heart disease and alzheimer's disease, combat aids, cure lupus, and even serve as a remedy for some cancers.
the symptoms are viewed as the body's attempt to restore homeostasis to a body in distress; the treatment is designed to promote the power of the total body to heal itself.
aromatherapy uses the essential oils extracted from plants and herbs to treat bacterial and viral infections, skin disorders, stress, herpes simplex, herpes zoster and immune deficiencies.
despite the wide variety of massage techniques they all tend to hold certain key physiological principles in common.
as a result, individuals often become kinder to themselves, which in turn reduces their stress level, thus improving immune function and overall health.
the major antioxidant vitamins are a (beta-carotene found in a wide variety of fruits and vegetables), c (ascorbic acid), and e (tocopherol).
herbs and teas that may produce a calming effect on the nervous system and  help reduce anxiety, irritability, and insomnia arechamomile, catnip,  hops, valerian root, peppermint, and passionflower.
vogelzang, jl; "using special foods and supplements as alternative  cancer treatments.
the practice of mind/body medicine crosses all health care disciplines.
several studies have demonstrated its multiple effects on the immune system.
figure 5 homeopathy is a system of medicine based on the use of natural substances to stimulate the body's own healing powers in curing disease.
you will learn about the use of massage and other relaxation therapies for stress prevention and treatment.
you may not know . . .
detoxification therapy is rapidly becoming popular as more people recognize that they may not feel their best because of their body's exposure to toxic substances as a result of our modern lifestyle.
these can be  sources for information, and to learn to cope with distressing thoughts and  feelings.
herbs and teas that may produce a calming effect on the nervous system and help reduce anxiety, irritability, and insomnia arechamomile, catnip, hops, valerian root, peppermint, and passionflower.
constitutional remedies work slowly over time to strengthen the body against further disease.
improved blood supply would improve the nervous system function.
cooking kills many of the plant enzymes needed for proper stomach digestion.
often dietary supplements with lipid-lowering effects are given as well.
homeopathy views symptoms as defense mechanisms by which the body tries to rid itself of harmful stresses.
it is more commonly practiced in  this culture than the vitalistic method.
some researchers are less impressed  with the success of homeopathy against these childhood diseases than are other  researchers, so exercise caution in referring these patients to a homeopathic  practitioner.
other hormones that decrease as aging occurs include human growth hormone,  estrogen, testosterone, and melatonin.
a survey of 100 practicing dos showed that 71% of them used manipulative therapies with only 5% of their patients, and only 14% used manipulation with over half of their patients.
j nurses  staff dev, 2002 mar-apr; 18(2): p61-5; quiz 66-7.
men  may get a warning, but women often do not.
parkman, ca; "complementary therapies and informed consent."
multi-strategy regimens have been developed for other illnesses as well.
cordyceps may increase physical, sexual, and mental stamina.
this is followed by a physical exam, much like that given by a physician, which assesses whether the client is a good candidate for chiropractic treatment by measuring leg length, muscle tone, heel tension, and other musculoskeletal features.
many traditionally trained western health care practitioners are turning to these adjunct therapies as valuable sources of information and healing, especially when western methods fail.
some herbs that may help are: the chinese herb astralagus for its antiviral and immunity-enhancing  properties.
naturopathic  homeopaths are believed to be better equipped than some mds for the practice of  homeopathy because they have often undergone specialization in homeopathy as  part of their elective training.
its chemistry and pharmacology are well studied.
toxicological studies are a cruder form and they often show the potential  spectrum of an action of a particular remedy without the subtleties in symptom  gradation that would be seen clinically.
a  major advantage homeopathy has over conventional medicine is it uses substances  in such small amounts to effect a cure, that there are virtually no side  effects.
these observations are recorded and reassessed at future appointments to determine the effectiveness of the treatment regimen.
they have the distinct advantage of having few side effects when taken in a wide range of supplemental doses and are ideal for use as preventive agents in healthy populations.
acute remedies are given for short- term illness, such as the flu or the common cold, while chronic remedies are given for long - term conditions.
for more information, contact the american association of naturopathic physicians in seattle, washington at 866-538-2267 or www.naturopathic.org.
when several symptoms are involved, the minor ones disappear before the major ones do.
while this doesn't sound particularly innovative by today's standards, it was innovative for the time in which dr. still lived.
patients must be reminded that the regulatory benefits of an agency such as the fda can prevent disasters like the thalidomide tragedy of the 1950's from occurring.
dong quai menstrual cramps, menopausal symptoms.
they take the form of small sublingual tablets and are prepared by  a process known as "potentization" in which they are constantly  diluted until only a very small amount remains.
the omega-3 fatty acids found in fish oils have been a prime target of cancer research in recent years because researchers have observed that the same parts of the world where breast cancer rates are high are where prostate cancer rates are high.
these areas include traditional chinese medicine  (both herbal and acupuncture), other popular forms of herbal medicine  distributed by naturopaths, chiropractic medicine, osteopathic medicine, and  homeopathic medicine.
it is suggested that patients seek medical  advice before taking melatonin.
feverfew is an herb that has been researched and proven  effective against migraines, and prevents the onset of future episodes.
for more information on aromatherapy, contact the national association for holistic aromatherapy in seattle, washington (888-ask-naha or visitwww.naha.org ) or health world online atwww.healthy.net.
some limit their practice solely to subluxations of the spine and its immediate connections to the nervous system.
it is associated with ingrained and immediate reactions over which we have little control that were originally designed to be beneficial such as: these and a myriad of other immediate and autonomic responses, have been exquisitely honed over time as life saving measures to facilitate the ability to deal with physical challenges.
another advantage to soy is that the higher the beginning cholesterol level, the greater the lipid-reducing effect it has, which suggests that it should, at least, be used in conjunction with allopathic drugs when a patient has dangerously high cholesterol levels.
or is it because scientific research has increasingly confirmed the crucial role stress can play in causing and aggravating different disorders and the diverse mechanisms of actions responsible for mediating its countless effects?
dong quai is used to relieve menstrual cramps, symptoms of menopause, and other gynecological problems.
there is more support in some cases for the use of naturopathic  interventions than for some pharmaceutical and surgical interventions we now  take for granted.
as the cost of health care skyrockets, the less expensive complementary methods are looking increasingly attractive to both the public and to health care professionals.
a relatively new technique in mind/body medicine is called "thought-field therapy," developed by dr. roger callahan, a psychologist interested in applying eastern and western medical practices in a variety of hybrid approaches.
the mechanism by which these  supplements work is believed to be connected to the isoflavone component of the  soy protein.
its overall body levels decrease sharply at adolescence, and again at age 40.
as hospital census numbers decrease throughout the country, more nurses are finding employment in other environments such as home health, industries, and entrepreneurial ventures of their own.
chronic remedies may take a few months to a couple of years to be  effective in reducing symptoms.
another advantage to soy is that the higher the beginning cholesterol  level, the greater the lipid-reducing effect it has, which suggests that it  should, at least, be used in conjunction with allopathic drugs when a patient  has dangerously high cholesterol levels.
currently there are approximately 50,000 dos and seventeen osteopathic medical schools in the united states.
replacement can reduce or eliminate hot flashes and insomnia, two of the major annoyances women going through menopause complain about.
their potential for use in the treatment of certain cancers and heart disease is certainly promising and merits further research.
they train non- physician practitioners in three to four-year programs.
piracy involves the illegal duplication of copyrighted materials.
a potential patient should evaluate whether an individual osteopath is able to meet their particular needs.
ginkgo biloba is an extract from the leaves of the ginkgo  tree and is popular in europe where it is usually sold in 40mg tablets.
together, the client and doctor can make the best choice for  individual symptoms and risk factors.
it is based on the principle that the human energy system extends above the skin, and the practitioner can use the hands as sensors to locate problems within the body.
contraindicated in those with clotting disorders.
scientific support for the theory behind osteopathic medicine comes from research conducted over the past few decades and is, at times, indistinguishable from allopathic theory.
the council on homeopathic education has a list  of several accredited programs.
to illustrate this point, several patients with migraine  headaches would be given several different treatment regimens to follow,  depending on whether the pain is localized on the right side of the head, or  the left, whether the migraines are associated with hormonal changes of the  menstrual cycle or menopause, or whether they are triggered by certain foods  and/or emotions.
when replaced, it can have dramatic effects on the body's  metabolic rates and change the muscle/fat ratio, accelerate the healing process  in surgical patients, and help people sleep better.
it is useful in helping patients to deal with a variety of stress-producing psychological problems associated with illnesses, such as decreased independence caused by hospitalization, feelings of isolation, anxiety, depression, and changes in body image.
it can be fascinating to see how differently individuals internalize the same words spoken by the facilitator.
some homeopaths suggest that modern pharmaceutical preparations can impede the body's own healing mechanism by masking symptoms instead of curing the underlying disease.
however, there is some evidence that ginseng may interfere with other  pharmacologic agents such as digoxin.
by the  1960s, a few people, including the french doctor jean valnet and the  austrian-born biochemist madame marguerite maury, were inspired by gattefoss,'s  work.
holistic nurses report that intervention in the healing process with prayer helps clients cope with anxieties surrounding their diagnoses and their loved ones.
the hands-on techniques of manipulation are beneficial because they bring an intimate atmosphere into the treatment setting.
breath therapy is another technique that is often used in trying to induce a state of relaxation.
pharmaceutical intervention is mildly helpful in treating cfs, and includes the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents for joint pain and low doses of antidepressants to reset disturbed sleep patterns.
he plunged the injured hand into a container of lavender oil and was amazed at how quickly it healed.
stress stress stress stress . . .
those with hay fever should avoid, may cause  hypertension, nervousness/insomnia, diarrhea, may interfere with other  medicines.
rather, it is a positive state of physical and emotional well being, that acknowledges the importance and inseparability of mind/body relationships.
although the exact physiological mechanism by which spirituality to heal illness has not been determined, prayer has been demonstrated to stimulate healing.
while chinese medicine has had a following in the united states since the 1700's, the unifying of various practices into a single body of medicine in the mid-twentieth century has made it easier to mainstream its use in the united states.
they may also be part of the treatment plan for those already suffering from major illnesses; for example, to decrease the side effects of chemotherapy, or to increase the chance of successful surgery intervention.
it is important to remember that herbs with estrogenic properties may be dangerous for women who have been advised against taking estrogen, either as a hormone replacement in menopause, or in birth control pills.
anyone eating a standard healthy diet is exposed to them regularly.
once the person has recovered from the precipitating symptoms, a constitutional remedy may be given to increase the body's resistance to developing future symptoms.
however, the theory behind it is different.
other hormones that decrease as aging occurs include human growth hormone, estrogen, testosterone, and melatonin.
w.s. keefer all rights reserved published by the national center of continuing education, inc., lakeway, texas.
many attribute this mysterious component to the assistance of a "higher power" in the healing process.
subluxations (a state in which a joint is only partially dislocated) occurring in the spinal column account for much of the body's poor functioning, and are from a modern lifestyle which is inconsistent with the way the body was designed.
however, a few of the more common ones, many  of which are actually hormones, will be highlighted.
the omega-3 fatty  acids found in fish oils have been a prime target of cancer research in recent  years because researchers have observed that the same parts of the world where  breast cancer rates are high are where prostate cancer rates are high.
there are many herbal remedies that are used by a variety of alternative  practitioners.
the second category, the biochemical approach, uses herbs and nutritional substances, such as vitamins, as the first line of treatment.
it is extremely important for patients to know that the method of application is essential for maximum benefit from the oil, and to prevent toxic reactions that can occur with some substances if they are not applied properly.
chronic remedies may take a few months to a couple of years to be effective in reducing symptoms.
the practitioner serves as a conduit through which the blocked energy flow is corrected.
this form of  complementary care is used in cancer prevention; prevention of neural tube  defects (by folic acid supplementation); and the treatment of diabetes,  hypoglycemia, and arthritis.
enzyme supplementation, along with a diet consisting of  whole, and whenever possible, raw foods, helps ensure that the proper nutrients  are absorbed to restore the body to a fully functioning capacity.
because of this trend in the use of alternative care by the public, and the growing respect that many of these practitioners are receiving from traditional medical practitioners as well, the number of alternative practitioners is expected to increase by 88% by the year 2010.
there is no known cause or lab  test to diagnose cfs, but researchers are looking into the possibility that  stress causes the immune system dysfunction, viral infection, environmental  assault, and neuroendocrine imbalances associated with cfs.
there are variations in the practice of chiropractic medicine.
they are not described  pharmacologically, or in terms of action, but rather the effects of the  remedies are derived from three sources: homeopathic drug "provings" in healthy people are experiments  where a substance is administered over a specific period of time to healthy  volunteers to cause the symptoms that they produce.
the theory behind this practice states that the more diluted a remedy is, the longer it will act, the more effective it will be, and the fewer the side effects it will produce.
valerian does not seem to interact with alcohol or have a side effect of  morning grogginess as other sedatives do.
our goal should be to learn how to harness stress, so that it can work in a positive, more productive, rather than self- destructive manner.
as the  demand for nontoxic remedies for serious illnesses increases, naturopathic  research is receiving more attention from mainstream medicine; allopathic  researchers are beginning to research naturopathic remedies, thus providing the  scientific data necessary to legitimize naturopathic medicine in the minds of  those trained in western medical thought.
it can last for years, but sufferers often do not look sick,  and may be labeled as lazy or mentally unstable.
it is believed that these anti- carcinogenic properties may be transferred to humans when they consume these plants.
like chiropractics, doctors of osteopathy (dos) were not accepted as part of mainstream medicine until the emphasis on holistic health began to surface in the last few decades.
the role of the nurse is rapidly changing as the emphasis on holistic  health increases, because nurses have traditionally been taught to look at the  whole patient and to care for the spiritual, psychosocial, physical and  emotional aspects of their patients.
considered safe by fda.
another study found that when fish-oil supplementation is combined with garlic supplementation, serum cholesterol levels drop and the ldl/hdl ratio is improved.
examples are elimination diet, skin testing, blood tests, electro acupuncture, biofeedback, and thyroid functioning.
they evaluate their results by the subjective responses  of the patient, their own observations, the reduction of symptoms, and the  results of any lab tests administered.
garlic has been shown, in some animal studies, to have cancer-suppressing potential by inhibiting the metabolism of carcinogens in the body, and by stopping them from binding to genetic material.
in germany it is used for tinnitus, headaches, and emotional instability.
garlic for its antibacterial and antiviral effects.
because its chemical structure is similar to estrogen, but its hormonal action is considerably less than that of the body's naturally produced estrogens, it is theorized that genistein may be useful in preventing cancers of several different organs by binding with estrogen receptor sites and preventing the stronger estrogens from binding, thus reducing overall hormonal activity.
this reduces the size of tumors, increases the number of lymphocytes fighting the tumor, and increases nk (natural killer) cell activity.
he believed improving the circulation, and maintaining the body's highly tuned regulatory system (which involves the vascular and nervous system communication and feedback loops) was the best way to insure optimum health.
often dietary supplements with lipid-lowering  effects are given as well.
for more information, contact the american academy of environmental  medicine in wichita, kansas at 316-684-5500 orwww.aaem.com.
for information on soy supplementation and fda recommendations contact: u.s. soyfoods directory @ www.soyfoods.com/healthclaimcos.html orthomolecular medicine (often known as megavitamin therapy) is another  complementary regimen based on nutrition.
there is a variety of complementary and alternative health care practices  and traditions that are quickly assimilated into modern western medical  tradition as more western-trained health care professionals recognize the  benefits of these methods, and become trained in them.
support groups are a less expensive, and sometimes more effective, way to provide mental health care than the traditional use of individual psychotherapy.
for more information on chiropractics, you can contact one of the several professional organizations for this discipline.
the psychotic patients had more structural problems in the midcervical regions of the spine and the lower extremities, while those with affective disorders had more problems associated with the thoracic region of the spine.
soy products such as soy flour, soy milk, and tofu contain phytoestrogen compounds that appear to not only aid in symptoms of menopause, but may also prevent certain types of cancer such as breast and prostate.
gi upset, those with clotting disorders should  consult physician.
the public perception of the fda as a slow-moving bureaucracy that prevents  the latest "cures" from being marketed may have some truth to it.
concerned osteopaths emphasize the importance of maintaining an emphasis on manipulative techniques and prevention-oriented holistic care if the profession is to survive as a separate entity from allopathic medicine.
any off-label use for medications mentioned in a course is identified as such.
to complicate matters further, it may be that each of these possible mechanisms is linked to a specific antioxidant.
use the button below to complete the evaluation.
soy supplements are an important part of a holistic approach to heart  disease.
however, no difference was  found in fevers, muscle aches, or sneezing.
patients must be reminded that the regulatory  benefits of an agency such as the fda can prevent disasters like the  thalidomide tragedy of the 1950's from occurring.
homeopathy is most effective in the early stages of acute and long-term  illnesses before enough time has passed to cause tissue damage.
while an interpersonal relationship between practitioner and patient is vital to the success of osteopathic treatment, some osteopathic practitioners align themselves closely with allopathic practices.
treatment usually begins with a medical history questionnaire that is filled out prior to the first visit.
however, there is some evidence that ginseng may interfere with other pharmacologic agents such as digoxin.
for the past thirty years or so health educators have emphasized the importance of preventive care (concentrating on "wellness" as opposed to "illnesses") as one way to reduce health care costs, since preventive measures are cheap in comparison with the cost of treating disease once it has already developed.
a variety of tests are used to determine particular problem substances for an individual.
oxidation therapies are used to selectively kill pathogens and must be  administered under controlled clinical conditions.
it is true that some herbs with estrogenic properties also have anti-estrogenic properties.
the oils are believed to act on the adrenal glands, ovaries, and the thyroid by traveling from the nose to the limbic system, which controls heart rate, blood pressure, breathing patterns, memory, stress levels, and hormone balance.
these environmental substances, including food, may affect any of the body's many systems, thus contributing to many forms of illness.
because  homeopathy uses natural substances, it is considered to be a subspecialty of  naturopathic medicine.
it is well  known for its antibiotic, antifungal, antiviral, and anti-carcinogenic  properties.
st. john's wort inflammation/viral infections,  sedative/anxiety, depression.
most important, the efforts of pioneers like valnet, maury and tisserand  have turned aromatherapy into a disciplined healing art, rediscovering the uses  of fragrance from ancient times and sparking a revival of aromatherapy that has  swept throughout the world.
it is believed that impeding of energy flow is caused by tension within the body's muscles which must be released before it causes muscle and organ damage.
these  processes can be hard on the body and are not recommended for recovering drug  addicts, alcoholics, diabetics, or those with eating disorders without strict  medical supervision.
mantle, f; "the use of complementary therapies."
homeopathic practitioners tend to be less concerned with the other  alternative therapies covered in this course because they administer physical  remedies similar to the medications of allopathic medicine and, therefore,  believe that relief of symptoms comes from their choice of the right remedy.
nurses can  play a key role in disseminating this information to an increasingly  sophisticated public.
because its chemical structure is similar to estrogen,  but its hormonal action is considerably less than that of the body's naturally  produced estrogens, it is theorized that genistein may be useful in preventing  cancers of several different organs by binding with estrogen receptor sites and  preventing the stronger estrogens from binding, thus reducing overall hormonal  activity.
it appears to activate several of the body's systems, such as the electromagnetic system (acupuncture points are more conductive than the surrounding tissue), and the chemical responses of the nervous system, the vascular system, and the lymph system.
it is thought that prayer stimulates the relaxation response and enhances the immune system.
references & suggested readings bascom, a; "complementary and alternative therapies in occupational  health.
healers from most cultures throughout history have used hands-on manipulation as a significant part of their healing traditions.
the strength of naturopathic medicine lies in its ability to prevent illness and to treat illnesses that haven't responded well to conventional medical therapies.
as stated earlier, most practitioners of mind/body medicine do not rely on just one of these techniques or interventions, but use them in conjunction with one another to provide an individualized approach to health care promotion.
chiropractors do not treat fractures or acute infections, perform surgery or trauma care, or prescribe pharmaceutical medication.
homeopathy has shown effectiveness against the herpes virus.
it is a good place to start for a comprehensive approach to holistic health practices.
naturopaths excel in the clinical use of nutrition regimens because of their vast knowledge of the latest research in nutritional medicine.
an overdose can cause dizziness and  headaches.
increased stress results in increased productivity - up to a point.
because research has shown a correlation between the development of breast cancer and the intake of omega-6 fatty acids (found mostly in polyunsaturated oils), current research is looking for a correlation between omega-6 fatty acids and prostate cancer.
depending on the specific needs of the individual client, they may be used in conjunction with each other.
because of these scientific methods, surgical procedures and pharmacologic treatments were developed for illnesses affecting people of all ages.
we should aim for that same condition - through diet, exercise and a resolution to stop hitting the refrigerator or the bar when things get tense.
some suggest that the fda has biases against dietary supplements because of its  relationship with large pharmaceutical companies, implying an element of  corruption within the fda itself.
it can have a side effect of daytime  grogginess and exacerbate any tendencies toward depression.
it is not feasible to provide detailed information on every alternative approach available, but it is important to briefly cover some of them.
stomach upset, contact  dermatitis.
it appears to work by dilating the blood vessels and preventing vessel spasms.
tea tree oil acne, skin & vaginal infections.
they use nutritional supplementation, chinese medicine, naturopathy, homeopathy, massage, and mind/body medicine.
some homeopaths suggest that modern  pharmaceutical preparations can impede the body's own healing mechanism by  masking symptoms instead of curing the underlying disease.
they evaluate their results by the subjective responses of the patient, their own observations, the reduction of symptoms, and the results of any lab tests administered.
for more information, contact the american academy of environmental medicine in wichita, kansas at 316-684-5500 orwww.aaem.com.
there is not enough clinical evidence to support these claims, but there is much scientific interest in dhea because of the way it naturally functions in the body.
acupuncture causes the release of neurotransmitters such as endorphins, serotonin, and enkephalins (which recently have been documented as natural painkillers) as well as anti-inflammatory agents such as cortisol.
the established role of the nurse in seeing clients holistically, and intervening in all the dimensions of human existence - physical, psychological, intellectual, social, and spiritual - places the nurse in a unique position to give information and advice concerning these various new therapies, many of which stress the importance of the holistic approach to health care.
increases skin sensitivity to sun.
do training is similar to allopathic physicians, although there is a greater emphasis on preventive medicine, and more training in musculoskeletal physiology and manipulative interventions.
exceeding the recommended dosage can lead to toxicity, just as it can with allopathic medicines.
others of these "new" therapies are really not new, but instead are part of traditional medicine in other parts of the world.
unlike homeopathy, however, a standard treatment and dosage is given to all patients, whereas homeopathy strives to find the perfect dose and combination of remedies for each individual.
they generally come from plant foods, and are manufactured by the  plant to protect itself against ultraviolet light, oxidation, and insects.
in homeopathic theory it is believed that faster the onset of symptoms, the  faster the cure; therefore, acute illnesses are easier to treat than chronic  ones.
these readings help determine the amount of tension existing in the muscles by emitting small sounds or by visual indications; the client may then attempt to relax the muscle further until a state of complete relaxation has been achieved.
they include hydrogen  peroxide therapy for wound and tissue repair, and ozone therapy for chronic  viral infections.
osteopaths see themselves as a separate, but equal profession to mds.
those with hypertension, heart disease,<  diabetes, and glaucoma should avoid.
together, the client and doctor can make the best choice for individual symptoms and risk factors.
dong quai's main side effect is to increase the skin's  sensitivity to the sun, and it should never be taken in high doses.
osteopathic diagnosis is made using the standard approaches of allopathic medicine, but dos also employ palpation and other touch techniques to assess skin temperature, range of motion, and pain.
unlike homeopathy, however,  a standard treatment and dosage is given to all patients, whereas homeopathy  strives to find the perfect dose and combination of remedies for each  individual.
they include: there is a variety of complementary and alternative health care practices and traditions that are quickly assimilated into modern western medical tradition as more western-trained health care professionals recognize the benefits of these methods, and become trained in them.
they rated chiropractic, acupuncture, and osteopathy as the most effective therapies.
meditation is one of the most widespread interventions in the mind/body repertoire.
however, just as distress can cause disease, it seems reasonable that there are good stresses that promote wellness.
these principles are: scientific support through controlled studies demonstrates the effectiveness of massage as part of an overall health care plan.
the complexity of factors which lead to cardiovascular risk, make cardiovascular wellness and prevention a good candidate for holistic interventions.
nurses can play a key role in disseminating this information to an increasingly sophisticated public.
one of the oldest forms of mind/body medicine is yoga.
this is considered normal in  homeopathic practice and is a sign that the body is being spurred on to greater  levels of healing.
but while valnet helped  inspire a modern aromatherapy movement when his book aromatherapie was  translated into english as the practice of aromatherapy, it was the appearance  in 1977 of masseur robert tisserand's book the art of aromatherapy, strongly  influenced by the work of valnet and gattefoss, that was successful in  capturing american interest.
for example, a hospital in switzerland reserves two nursing units for the treatment of patients using chinese herbal medicine and homeopathy; a department of complementary medicine is now available in a swiss medical school; finland has included acupuncture in its medical school curriculum for several years; and a complementary medicine section has been added to the curriculum of the royal college of nursing in the united kingdom.
the result is a total body response  which causes the person to function better.
this is gradually changing the role of the nurse from that of a caregiver to a healer.
testing is required for florida nurses, all electrologists and ohio requires a test for the ohio law course.
a lot of it depends on attitude.
no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any mechanical or electronic means, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without prior written permission of copyright holder.
they are found in fresh fruits and vegetables,  and in many grains.
when replaced, it can have dramatic effects on the body's metabolic rates and change the muscle/fat ratio, accelerate the healing process in surgical patients, and help people sleep better.
it has serum levels that change on a circadian rhythm pattern, with higher levels present at night, and lower levels present during the day.
it is used to reduce hot flashes in menopausal women, but has been found to be more effective if taken with vitamin e. recent studies suggest that it may be useful as adjunct therapy in treating newly diagnosed non-insulin dependent diabetes, and as an antioxidant.
most of these people ranged in age from 25-49 years, and were highly educated with high-income levels; many paid for this care out of their own pocket.
the nurse should provide this information to a client inquiring about the use of these herbs.
they have little interest in bodywork, herbal and nutritional medicine, or  mind/body techniques.
for more  information on aromatherapy, contact the national association for holistic  aromatherapy in seattle, washington (888-ask-naha or visitwww.naha.org ) or  health world online atwww.healthy.net.
e. recent studies suggest that it may be useful as adjunct therapy in treating  newly diagnosed non-insulin dependent diabetes, and as an antioxidant.
acupuncture, herbal medicine, yoga and tai chi fall into this last category.
the complexity of factors which lead to cardiovascular risk, make  cardiovascular wellness and prevention a good candidate for holistic  interventions.
the nearly three thousand homeopathic remedies (of which 200-300 are used frequently) come from nature in the form of herbs, minerals, and are some animal products, and are regulated by the fda and sold as over-the-counter medications.
isoflavones are an example of a group of compounds called phytoestrogens, which exert mild hormonal effects on the body.
this system eliminates junk food, refined sugar, and food additives from the diet while prescribing large doses of specific vitamins.
in recent years, as the limitations of allopathic medicine have become more apparent to the public, interest in homeopathic remedies has skyrocketed.
the first one, the vitalistic principle, states that the body can heal itself from within through the flow of energy in the body's nervous system.
nurs educ, 2003 jan; 42(1): p28-34.
garlic is probably the most recognized medicinal herb among researchers.
cfs strikes primarily women between the ages of 25 and 45, and usually  occurs suddenly.
statistics show that in 1996 thirty-four percent of the us population used some form of alternative medicine to augment their health care.
naturopaths are trained as primary care providers in a variety of  intervention techniques, and may specialize in any of them, or choose to  specialize in specific problem areas, such as allergy or arthritis.
stress levels have also escalated in children, teenagers, college students and the elderly for other reasons, including: increased crime, violence and other threats to personal safety; destructive peer pressures that lead to substance abuse and other unhealthy lifestyle habits; social isolation and loneliness; the erosion of family and religious values and ties; the loss of other strong sources of social support that are powerful stress busters.
it can be  added to soups or taken as tea.
it is theorized  that the isoflavones found in soy proteins affect the body in a metabolically  and hormonally complex way to lower cholesterol levels, and may reduce the  rates of some cancers by slowing cell replication.
human growth hormone declines gradually after middle age.
more research  is needed before definitive dietary conclusions can be made.
acupuncture is defined by the california business and professions code, section 4927, as: "the stimulation of points on or near the surface of the body by the insertion of needles to prevent or modify the perception of pain or to normalize physiological functions, including pain control, for the treatment of certain diseases or dysfunctions of the body."
is it because there is more stress today?
they are effective against  viral, fungal, parasitic, and bacterial infections, as well as circulatory  irregularities, chronic fatigue syndrome, arthritis, allergies, cancer, and  multiple sclerosis.
such changes entail regular exercise, a reduction of dietary saturated fatty acids and cholesterol, and possibly moderate alcohol intake (to change ldl/hdl ratio).
some of these interventions include: the biggest strength of osteopathic medicine is its ability to incorporate the theories and techniques of many other types of treatment into its practice.
homeopathic roots go back as far as hippocrates' "law of the  similars" which in medical terms can be stated as "like cures  like."
they see biological functioning as a by-product of biological structure.
the holistic approach of most of the  complementary practices naturally lends itself to nursing functions.
not enough produces a dull, raspy sound.
tea-tree oil is pressed from the leaves of a tropical tree  and has been used for centuries as a topical antiseptic by those living in the  south sea islands.
chinese medicine focuses on identifying patterns of symptoms that reflect energy blockages within the body.
with this in mind, they encourage do medical schools to provide greater emphasis on manipulative medicine.
when combined with guided imagery and/or therapeutic touch, it can be a powerful nursing intervention in a wide variety of nursing settings such as nursing homes, hospices, and hospitals; and for a wide variety of illnesses such as the side-effects of chemotherapy and radiation in treating cancer patients, aids related problems, heart disease, postpartum depression, and anxiety of new mothers.
it dilates blood vessels, and lab studies have revealed that it contains several compounds that bind to estrogen receptors.
it can be found in health food stores.
other herbs that may have estrogenic properties and help reduce hot flashes  areblue cohosh, fennel, false unicorn root, red clover, sarsaparilla,  unicorn root, wild yam root, and oil of primrose.
it is widely used in europe to  relieve the symptoms of pms and menopause.
in an age of rapidly expanding knowledge about health care and the ability to disseminate that information quickly and widely, a regulatory agency such as the fda definitely has its positive and negative qualities.
they see themselves as part of a comprehensive system of health care that includes many other traditions with valid intervention that can be used alongside naturopathy.
environmental medicine explores the role of dietary and environmental allergens such as dust, mold, chemicals, and foods in promoting health and illness.
recent studies have shown that antioxidants may play a role in reducing the  risk of cataracts, age-related macular degeneration, certain neurological  disturbances, bladder cancer recurrence, and infectious diseases.
at that time there were attempts made to unify the various practices into one cohesive body of medicine.
there is vast innate potential that resides in each of us for preventing disease and promoting health.
it is  recommended that you complete it, but all you are required to submit for  continuing education credits is the evaluation.
as an army surgeon in world war ii, dr. valnet used essential oils such  as thyme, clove, lemon and chamomile on wounds and burns, and later found  fragrances successful in treating psychiatric problems.
in six studies done on the use of alternative therapies in aids patients, researchers found that 30-50% of those with hiv sought some form of alternative care, not because they were dissatisfied with the traditional approach of allopathic medicine, but because they were seeking to improve immune functioning and overall health as an adjunct to conventional methods.
however, just the right degree can create a magnificent tone.
therapeutic experience occurs when the remedy is used clinically and  therefore, a crucial part of the test of the efficacy of a treatment.
for years scientists have suspected that fish oils provide protection against certain types of cancers such as breast and prostate.
this is primarily used for trauma  victims.
"oncol nurs forum, 2002 nov-dec; 29(10): p1445-52.
that civil or criminal litigation may be costly and embarrassing to any organization or individual.
other herbs that may target specific problems include milk thistle used to treat liver conditions, such as cirrhosis and jaundice; saw palmetto used to treat prostate enlargement; and valerian used as a minor tranquilizer and sleep aid.
it may  act as an antioxidant, useful in treating chronic hypertension, and aid in the  reduction of serum cholesterol.
they have little interest in bodywork, herbal and nutritional medicine, or mind/body techniques.
they are not described pharmacologically, or in terms of action, but rather the effects of the remedies are derived from three sources: homeopathy treats the unique compilation of symptoms of an individual by paying attention to those symptoms, which may differ from someone else with the same diagnosis.
because they are not regulated, there are many popular preparations that have not undergone the rigorous testing required for fda approval.
the symptoms are viewed as the  body's attempt to restore homeostasis to a body in distress; the treatment is  designed to promote the power of the total body to heal itself.
since the musculoskeletal system provides the body's structure, it plays a critical role in maintaining a healthy body function.
highly conditioned athletes display a stress response that rises quickly in a competition then falls quickly back down.
this form of complementary care is used in cancer prevention; prevention of neural tube defects (by folic acid supplementation); and the treatment of diabetes, hypoglycemia, and arthritis.
soy isoflavones may  encourage bone density in postmenopausal women by binding to an estrogen  receptor found in bones, thereby preventing osteoporosis.
this was an age of philosophical, cultural, and medical importance in chinese history.
it appears, however, that it is difficult to get all that is needed for cancer prevention simply from diet.
that u.s. copyright law grants to the copyright owner the exclusive right to duplicate copyrighted, printed and recorded materials.
it is without a doubt that the situation has progressively worsened since then.
the role of the nurse is to be informed about alternative and complementary  approaches, and to help patients weed through the vast amount of information  about these substances so that optimum health care can be achieved, with as  little risk as possible.
the result is a total body response which causes the person to function better.
dhea, a hormone produced by the adrenal gland that reaches its peak at  about the age of 30 and drops significantly by age 60, has been reported to  cure aging, promote weight loss, prevent heart disease and alzheimer's disease,  combat aids, cure lupus, and even serve as a remedy for some cancers.
chiropractors also believe in the holistic principle, but see the nervous system as the master of all other body systems, and thus the nervous system is the key to making the entire network of systems function at their highest level.
homeopathy views symptoms as defense mechanisms by which the body tries to  rid itself of harmful stresses.
not surprisingly, it appears that fats play a role in the development of cardiovascular disease as well as cancer.
sensors that measure electrical activity in the muscles are attached to the skin.
commercially available preparations vary as to dosages, so patients should  be warned about the possibility of problems if they change brands.
they generally come from plant foods, and are manufactured by the plant to protect itself against ultraviolet light, oxidation, and insects.
nursing diagnoses for which mind/body interventions may prove useful include, but are not limited to: in the broadest sense, mind/body medicine means changing one's lifestyle to promote health and prevent illness.
job stress is the leading source of stress for adults.
the testing instruments pick up very subtle signals within the body (signals of which the person may be completely unaware); these signals then help the person see where impediments to relaxation may be occurring.
after you have read the material, we must receive your payment and evaluation for this course to complete your order.
its  overall body levels decrease sharply at adolescence, and again at age 40.
another study found that when fish-oil supplementation is  combined with garlic supplementation, serum cholesterol levels drop and the  ldl/hdl ratio is improved.
summary of popular herbal remedies herb indications adverse effects echinacea viral infections, poor immune function, wound  healing, cold & flu symptoms.
it is found in both a synthetic and non-synthetic form, but use of the non-synthetic form is discouraged because of the risk of contamination or viral transmission.
this helps to place the nurse in a position to teach not just sick people, but the healthy, too, by providing important preventive information to obtain an optimum state of health.
ginseng is from an asian class of drugs that interact with  neurotransmitters and can alleviate stress.
the fda does not  approve it because it is classified as a dietary supplement instead of a drug,  so it cannot be obtained by prescription, but may be commercially available in  health food stores.
you can hardly pick up a newspaper or magazine or watch tv without seeing or hearing some reference to stress.
it is also good for anxiety, tension, neuralgia, and the irritability symptoms of menopause.
new nccam statistics show that number has increased to around 42%.
a study compared the musculoskeletal differences between psychotic patients and those with affective disorders.
treatment often involves a combination of allopathic pharmaceutical interventions with osteopathic manipulation.
it elevates wbc, improves the efficiency of macrophages and proteins  designed to regulate disease-fighting cells, and may alleviate cold and flu  symptoms.
such a specialization is not readily available in most western medical schools.
replacement can reduce or eliminate hot flashes and insomnia, two  of the major annoyances women going through menopause complain about.
such changes entail regular exercise, a reduction of  dietary saturated fatty acids and cholesterol, and possibly moderate alcohol  intake (to change ldl/hdl ratio).
its principle active ingredient is terpinen-4-ol, which acts  as a bactericidal substance.
much interest has stemmed from "preventive" care measures as one way to reduce health care costs.
appropriate nursing diagnoses for referral to a naturopath include the  following because they are often responsive to nutritional remedies: altered nutrition, both less than and more than, body requirement chronic constipation or diarrhea sleep pattern disturbance stress syndrome many studies on the development and treatment of various cancers are  supporting the importance of diet, and other lifestyle issues.
melatonin is a hormone produced in the pineal gland from serotonin (5-ht) levels.
j holist nurs,  2002 dec; 20(4): p323-4.
there are now approximately seventy schools of chinese medicine in the us.
this is considered normal in homeopathic practice and is a sign that the body is being spurred on to greater levels of healing.
the major difference is that when women have mis  after menopause, they are usually more severe than the first heart attacks of  men, and women are more likely to die from the first attack than men are.
zappa, sb; cassileth, br; "complementary approaches to palliative oncological care.
detoxification usually takes the form of fasting  or strict diet regimens, colonic irrigation, and/or hyperthermia.
as the cost of health  care skyrockets, the less expensive complementary methods are looking  increasingly attractive to both the public and to health care professionals.
guided imagery is closely related to mental imagery except it is usually performed by a health care professional rather than auto-induced.
bascom, a; "complementary and alternative therapies in occupational health.
soy proteins are one such supplement shown to be as  effective as pharmacological treatments, without the troubling side effects.
naturopathic medicine, with its emphasis on diet and supplements, is  naturally attractive to most nurses.
patients should be encouraged to look into the training background of a homeopath they are considering.
licorice is used for gastritis and bronchitis, nettle for arthritis and rheumatism and its possible effects against hay fever, senna for constipation, and witch hazel to soothe hemorrhoids and to stop diarrhea.
after all, stress has been around since adam and eve were evicted from the garden of eden.
nevertheless, the magnitude of the above cited reports suggests that acupuncture may be effective for the treatment of low back pain, tooth extractions, nausea, angina, migraine and tension headaches, dysmenorrhea, and substance abuse.
the mechanism by which these supplements work is believed to be connected to the isoflavone component of the soy protein.
as we move further into the twenty-first century, it is an exciting time to be a nurse because of the new techniques and theories of medicine.
not surprisingly, it appears that fats play a role in the development of  cardiovascular disease as well as cancer.
evidence suggests that in large doses, it dilates blood vessels, increasing circulation throughout the body and improving memory and concentration.
some clinical studies have indicated that it may be effective in treating acne and other skin infections, as well as vaginal infections.
ginkgo senility/alzheimers, dizziness,  impotence, varicose veins.
unlike the allopathic physician, the homeopath does not need to diagnose a particular disease to treat the patient.
repeatedly invoked, it is not hard to see how they can contribute to hypertension, strokes, heart attacks, diabetes, ulcers, neck or low back pain.
this approach is more symptom-oriented than the vitalistic approach.
naturopathic medicine, with its emphasis on diet and supplements, is naturally attractive to most nurses.
this is extremely important because studies have shown that although  women are, for the most part, protected against heart disease until menopause  occurs, once estrogen levels drop dramatically, women have the same risk as men  for developing heart disease.
the chiropractor/client relationship is another strength of this approach to health care.
nurses in holistic practices concede that there is an element of mystery in the use of prayer for healing.
aromatherapy uses the essential oils extracted from plants and herbs to  treat bacterial and viral infections, skin disorders, stress, herpes simplex,  herpes zoster and immune deficiencies.
some nurses are trained in massage therapy to better serve  their clients' holistic health care needs for comforting touch.
this helps to  place the nurse in a position to teach not just sick people, but the healthy,  too, by providing important preventive information to obtain an optimum state  of health.
if not, encourage the patient to consult with a certified experienced herbologist or a pharmacist to insure the safety of the dosage and the purpose for taking the preparation.
it is currently being studied as a source of migraine relief.
numerous surveys confirm that adult americans perceive they are under much more stress than a decade or two ago.
cooking kills  many of the plant enzymes needed for proper stomach digestion.
it is also not recommended for the physically weak, the underweight, or for those with hypothyroid or hypoglycemic conditions.
for chiropractors, the musculoskeletal system plays a key role in understanding how the body functions.
however, as a result of accumulating clinical experience and continuing laboratory studies, dosage schedules and/or treatment recommendations are often altered or discontinued.
this examination of the exterior provides clues to the interior state of health.
in germany it is used for tinnitus, headaches,  and emotional instability.
most consumers of alternative therapies for serious diseases did not report this care to their allopathic physician.
health food stores and alternative medicine literature contain many newer  supplementation materials and information that is impossible to cover in an  overview course such as this one.
in practical terms, this means that often a substance that causes a  set of symptoms in a healthy individual will have the opposite effect (a cure)
in other areas of complementary medicine the role of the nurse is to be  informed on the subject to better serve patients by providing information about  the advantages and disadvantages of these approaches, and to make referrals to  the appropriate practitioners.
beginnings, 2002  jul-aug; 22(4): p11-2.
naturopaths excel in the clinical use of nutrition regimens  because of their vast knowledge of the latest research in nutritional medicine.
the theory behind this practice  states that the more diluted a remedy is, the longer it will act, the more  effective it will be, and the fewer the side effects it will produce.
enzyme therapy enzyme therapy is used to treat digestive problems from an individual's  lack of an enzyme or the proper amount of the enzyme needed for healthy  digestion to occur.
beyond this, little is understood about how or why acupuncture works.
this is true not just for  breast cancer, but for other forms of cancer as well, such as liver, lung, and  colon cancers.
the need for constant communication between the practitioner and the client during treatment sessions usually makes for a warm and empathic relationship.
is it because the nature of contemporary stress is somehow different and more dangerous?
this is true not just for breast cancer, but for other forms of cancer as well, such as liver, lung, and colon cancers.
goldenseal gi infections, gall bladder  inflammation, cirrhosis of liver.
pressure applied to these reflex points releases tension, improves circulation, and restores the balance of the body's energy flow.
the interventions used in mind/body medicine are taught one-on-one as well as in groups, and as part of both inpatient and outpatient programs.
for more information contact: a cure for the common cold has eluded researchers for decades and, while zinc does not technically qualify as a cure, there is some evidence to support the claim that zinc lozenges can reduce the aggravating symptoms of the common cold, and reduce the duration of symptoms.
the latest thinking  is that the cluster of symptoms is caused by a combination of these factors.
the second category, the biochemical approach, uses herbs and nutritional  substances, such as vitamins, as the first line of treatment.
homeopaths believe  modern allopathic treatment methods can weaken the body's vital force.
the patient's subjective report of symptom  reduction is the major criterion upon which this approach is evaluated.
nurses have an important role to play in  educating the public about the role of diet and supplementation to maintain  optimal health, and to fight the disease process once it has started.
why all of a sudden focus and fascination?
for example, naturopaths have been using vitamin e for its antioxidant properties for over thirty years.
homeopaths use the energy of one substance (the remedy) to heal the energy field of another substance (the ill person) by arousing this energy field so that it actually heals itself.
there are four types of acupuncture currently used in the u.s, known as medical, ethnic chinese, japanese and auricular.
the dietary changes needed to lower cholesterol are often difficult for patients to maintain because they require a vigilance that some don't think they have the time for, find too expensive, or deem inconvenient.
part ii - specific therapies.
ephedra asthma/hay fever, colds, weight loss.
there are a few studies that have been conducted to test theory that is unique to osteopathic medicine.
the homeopath treats the symptoms rather than the disease itself, and believes that the whole person is healed in a way that is foreign to the thinking of allopathic medicine.
the strength of naturopathic medicine lies in its ability to prevent  illness and to treat illnesses that haven't responded well to conventional  medical therapies.
unfortunately, our bodies still react with these same, ancient fight or flight responses that are now potentially damaging and deadly.
patients should be encouraged to look into the training background of a  homeopath they are considering.
prayer is also seen as an important tool to deepen the nurse/client bond that is often so crucial in healing.
"home healthc, nurse 2002 jul; 20(7): p431-3.
unlike the  allopathic physician, the homeopath does not need to diagnose a particular  disease to treat the patient.
at present, there are many books available on aromatherapy.
it  dilates blood vessels, and lab studies have revealed that it contains several  compounds that bind to estrogen receptors.
unfortunately, there are people who will take advantage of the lack of controls  over many of these alternative substances, and use them in harmful ways to make  a quick buck or use them in excess; more is not always better.
over the centuries chinese medicine has been influenced by other asian cultures so that today's practices have a combination of japanese, korean, and southeast asian influence.
on a less dramatic note, the  fda's requirements of consistent dosages protect people from suffering  unnecessary side effects when they switch brands of a product.
each uses a unique combination, which allows flexibility in meeting the needs of their clients.
the main principle underlying this form of medicine is that people are biochemical individuals with their own special bodily needs and, therefore, rda vitamin and supplement requirements make little sense as nutrient guides.
stress is an unavoidable consequence of life.
it has few side effects, except for those who are allergic to it.
when obtaining a patient's history, to be alert for medications  the patient is taking, including herbal remedies.
st. john's wort is a remedy used for nearly two thousand years for its anti-inflammatory effects, and sedative and pain reducing properties.
all  rights reserved.
there is  not enough clinical evidence to support these claims, but there is much  scientific interest in dhea because of the way it naturally functions in the  body.
downey, rp; "healing with flower essences."
homeopathy is most effective in the early stages of acute and long-term illnesses before enough time has passed to cause tissue damage.
soy supplementation may be an answer  for many because it lowers overall cholesterol levels, even in the patient who  is not maintaining the strict dietary regimen prescribed.
for example, many new and varied vitamin, nutrition, and diet therapies abound.
for example, antibiotics have severely limited the threat of many childhood illnesses while surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy are used for treating many types of cancer, and open-heart surgery has saved the lives of many with crippling heart disease.
it is also important to stress that the patient should inform the primary caregiver that he is taking the herbal remedy in case there are potential adverse reactions between the herbal preparation and any conventional medicines the patient may be taking.
some predictors for using manipulation therapy: specialty, emphasis in school, and era of training were not significant in this study.
according to time magazine stress was considered "the epidemic of the eighties", and our leading health problem as a nation at that time.
osteopaths are able to specialize in the same fields in which allopaths specialize, but approximately half of them go into primary care medicine instead.
it is recommended that you complete it, but all you are required to submit for continuing education credits is the evaluation.
most practitioners are aware of the danger of  toxicity with some vitamins and carefully watch for symptoms.
those with poorer health were more likely to use alternative medicine than were those with better health.
however, they do not want to lose what makes them unique by abandoning their own organizations in favor of admission into the ama.
it is suggested that patients seek medical advice before taking melatonin.
parkman, ca; "cam therapies and nursing competency."
manipulative therapies have proven useful in reducing the length of the course of antibiotics needed in the treatment of pneumonia in elderly individuals in reducing the number of attacks and medication needed in the treatment of asthma sufferers, and in relieving the symptoms and reducing the length of acute episodes in those with copd.
after the discoveries by pasteur and koch, the belief that disease could be eliminated through the studying, identifying, and conquering of germs became dominant in western culture.
similarly, we all need to find the proper level of stress that allows us to perform optimally and make melodious music as we go through life.
some researchers are less impressed with the success of homeopathy against these childhood diseases than are other researchers, so exercise caution in referring these patients to a homeopathic practitioner.
there are two broad categories of naturopathic medicine.
studies show its effectiveness for a wide variety of ailments.
some examples: morphine comes from the opium poppy seed, aspirin comes from the bark of the willow tree, and digitalis comes from the foxglove plant.
on an ill person with similar symptoms.
for more information contact: international academy of nutrition and preventive medicine po box  18433 asheville, nc.
estrogen begins its decline in women around age 40 and sharply drops off about age 50.
therefore, nurses should ask why the patient is taking the herb, how much, what brand, and who suggested its use.
it wasn't until 1972 that all states allowed dos to apply for licensure, and later they were allowed to practice in allopathic hospitals.
phone 800/986-4636, website: www.amerchiro.com an american civil war surgeon named andrew still founded osteopathic medicine.
once the person has recovered from the  precipitating symptoms, a constitutional remedy may be given to increase the  body's resistance to developing future symptoms.
chiropractors are the second largest group of primary care providers in the us.
anyone eating a standard healthy diet is exposed to them  regularly.
lusby, pe; coombes, a; wilkinson, jm; "honey: a potent agent for wound healing?"j wound ostomy continence nurs, 2002 nov; 29(6): p295-300.
they include: oxygenation therapies, such as hyperbaric oxygen therapy which is done in  a sealed pressurized tube and allows a person to take in higher concentrations  of oxygen than could be done normally.
these environmental substances, including food, may affect any of the  body's many systems, thus contributing to many forms of illness.
like many complementary practices, this one believes that human beings are  enlivened by a "vital force" or energy that can be an indicator of  the presence of illness.
other practitioners take a more allopathic approach to healing, such as the diagnosis of disease followed by referral for treatment, if warranted, or followed by chiropractic treatment of the disease.
it also clears congestion, kills intestinal worms, improves immune  system functioning, and lowers blood pressure.
there are no adequate odorless stand-ins for fresh cloves, and the amount  of garlic needed to provide definitive answers (often as much as 7-28 cloves a  day) is prohibitive, given the odor problems associated with it.
there seems to be widespread concern that as dos become accepted by allopathic providers, they will be absorbed by the more traditional approaches and eventually cease to exist as a group with their own unique approaches and philosophical underpinnings.
it is currently being studied as a  source of migraine relief.
they work by invoking pleasant emotional reactions stored in the brain from previous experiences with a particular aroma.
the therapy is done by having the client concentrate on the specific problematic thoughts and feelings.
however, despite the number of studies showing the benefits of antioxidant supplementation, consensus about these benefits still does not exist.
this approach is  more symptom-oriented than the vitalistic approach.
subluxations are common and often the result of a sedentary life-style, such as sitting for prolonged periods of time which is hard on the spine, and lack of exercise.
health food stores and alternative medicine literature contain many newer supplementation materials and information that is impossible to cover in an overview course such as this one.
research indicates that depression, the stress of losing a sense of control over life situations, and an emotionally repressive life-style, can contribute to immune system dysfunction.
they may be used as preventive measures for major illness(es) in those indicating tendencies towards such illness(es).
once these strong emotions are released, the client may be more successful in inducing the relaxation response.
nurse educ, 2002 may-jun; 27(3): p118-22.
this study concluded that there were, indeed, significant differences.
other herbs that may target specific problems include milk thistle used to  treat liver conditions, such as cirrhosis and jaundice; saw palmetto used to  treat prostate enlargement; and valerian used as a minor tranquilizer and sleep  aid.
detoxification therapy rids the body of these toxins to improve the immune function, reduce neurotoxicity and hormonal dysfunction, decrease psychological problems, and even eliminate cancer cells.
chronic fatigue syndrome (cfs) is a fairly new phenomenon that has not been amenable to allopathic treat ment methods.
in recent years this interest in prevention has deepened, and new therapies, referred to as "alternative" or "comple mentary" medicine, are now on the market.
the stress response of the body is somewhat like an indy car revving at the starting line.
frequently, emotional healing occurs before the abatement of physical symptoms.
j nurses staff dev, 2002 mar-apr; 18(2): p61-5; quiz 66-7.
symptoms that,  at first glance, may appear to be unrelated are treated together as though they  are related, so the patient can heal on all levels - physically, emotionally  and spiritually.
it appears,  however, that it is difficult to get all that is needed for cancer prevention  simply from diet.
more studies are  called for to reproduce these findings.
melatonin is a hormone produced in the pineal gland from serotonin (5-ht)
licorice is used for  gastritis and bronchitis, nettle for arthritis and rheumatism and its possible  effects against hay fever, senna for constipation, and witch hazel to soothe  hemorrhoids and to stop diarrhea.
according to hans selye, the most widely recognized authority on stress, "without stress, there would be no life".
dos easily integrate homeopathy, naturopathy, chinese medicine, and mind/body medicine into their practices.
an ideal remedy is matched to this set of symptoms, which would create the same symptoms if given to a healthy person.
only if these methods fail are herbs and other  chemical interventions tried.
costs for osteopathic office visits are similar to those of allopathic physicians, but overall cost for osteopathic treatments may be less than for allopathic treatments.
the role of the nurse is rapidly changing as the emphasis on holistic health increases, because nurses have traditionally been taught to look at the whole patient and to care for the spiritual, psychosocial, physical and emotional aspects of their patients.
pediatr nurs, 2002 sep-oct; 28(5): p487-90.
vogelzang, jl; "using special foods and supplements as alternative cancer treatments.
some of these include addicted infants, colic, infants whose mothers are depressed, abused and/or autistic children, post traumatic stress, eating disorders, and fibro myalgia.
the remedies are not chosen to support the body's nutritional or metabolic needs, or to attack viruses and other pathogens that may be attacking the body as occurs in allopathic medicine but, instead, to subtly urge the body's vital force into a higher level of functioning to eliminate symptoms and their cause.
the major antioxidant vitamins are a  (beta-carotene found in a wide variety of fruits and vegetables), c (ascorbic  acid), and e (tocopherol).
the center for disease control (cdc) defines chronic fatigue syndrome as  unexplained fatigue lasting for six months resulting in substantial reduction  of activities, plus at least four of the following symptoms: impaired  short-term memory, difficulty concentrating, sore throat, tender lymph nodes,  muscle pains, joint pains without swelling or redness, headaches of a type or  severity not previously experienced, lack of sleep, and malaise of more than  one day following exercise.
detoxification usually takes the form of fasting or strict diet regimens, colonic irrigation, and/or hyperthermia.
scientists are also starting to realize the anti-carcinogenic properties of  compounds called polyphenols.
test copyright  2012 national center of continuing education, inc.
some practitioners remain with the patient throughout the process while others leave them to rest while the needles are working.
they  stress the importance of focusing on strengthening the vital force instead of  searching for offending pathogens.
classes are usually available through the local ymca and ywca, and in many towns.
recent studies demonstrate the usefulness of osteopathic medicine in treating low back pain, muscle contraction headaches, herniated discs, peripheral nerve problems, chronic shoulder pain, decreased range of motion associated with old age, and fibromyalgias.
upon completion of this course, the learner will be able to: traditional western medicine (allopathic medicine), especially since the late nineteenth century, has been successful in treating and/or eradicating many diseases that had meant certain death.
chiropractic medicine is a non- pharmaceutical and nonsurgical approach that involves hands-on manipulation of the musculoskeletal system as a means of primary treatment.
zappa, sb; cassileth, br; "complementary approaches to palliative  oncological care.
some are: oriental massage methods are based on the principles of chinese medicine and the changes of energy flow within the body.
he saw interplay between the mechanics of joint function and the performance of muscles and ligaments, which impacts vascular flow and the function of the nervous system.
in homeopathic theory it is believed that faster the onset of symptoms, the faster the cure; therefore, acute illnesses are easier to treat than chronic ones.
a study showed those taking zinc lozenges had symptoms for 4.4 days, while  those who took placebos had symptoms for 7.6 days.
soy products such as soy flour, soy milk, and tofu contain phytoestrogen  compounds that appear to not only aid in symptoms of menopause, but may also  prevent certain types of cancer such as breast and prostate.
these methods are based on applying finger and palm pressure to specific points to improve the efficiency and balance of energy in the body.
sometimes, the needles are moved to other spots during a session, depending on feedback from the continuous pulse readings.
men may get a warning, but women often do not.
there are many herbal remedies that are used by a variety of alternative practitioners.
homeopathic roots go back as far as hippocrates' "law of the similars" which in medical terms can be stated as "like cures like."
"aaohn j, 2002 sep; 50(9): p418-25; quiz 426-7.
like most alternative therapies, there is a long initial interview in which  the practitioner/patient relationship is established.
the  elderly produce about half of that produced by children.
by florida state law you must complete and submit  the test, with 70% correct or higher, and an evaluation for each course.
however, this level differs for each of us.
however, the nature of stress for modern man is not an occasional confrontation with a saber-toothed tiger or a hostile warrior but rather a host of emotional threats like getting stuck in traffic and fights with customers, co-workers, or family members, that often occur several times a day.
vaccinations and allergy treatments of  allopathic medicine share much the same principle.
other forms of alternative medicine it is not feasible to provide detailed information on every alternative  approach available, but it is important to briefly cover some of them.
health professionals should be aware of  this danger.
the  mechanism of action of these extremely dilute substances is not well understood.
these studies are subject to the same legal restrictions as  pharmacological studies in that they require detailed protocols, informed  consent, and the approval of an ethics committee.
the practitioner examines the skin, bones, body odors, body sounds, body build, pulse, the tongue, the patient's mental state, and the patient's demeanor.
the word itself means a union between the physical, mental, and spiritual dimensions of life and is therefore philosophically compatible with the concept of holistic health.
many allopathic physicians recognize that the emphasis on musculoskeletal functioning has an impact on many disease processes and train themselves in that aspect of osteopathic medicine.
those who think in holistic terms believe  these drugs should not be the first choice in the treatment of high  cholesterol, but should be used only after efforts at lifestyle and dietary
goldenseal has antimicrobial and antibacterial effects.
that every time you use or make an illegal copy of any printed material in any form or by any method you may be liable for further litigation.
in recent years, as the limitations of allopathic  medicine have become more apparent to the public, interest in homeopathic  remedies has skyrocketed.
many healthcare professionals practice it.
they take the form of small sublingual tablets and are prepared by a process known as "potentization" in which they are constantly diluted until only a very small amount remains.
instead, the patient's progress is monitored through regular blood work and urinalysis.
in addition to the standard physical exam and history taken by the allopathic physician, the osteopath assesses body alignment, posture, and muscle movement to obtain further information, which might suggest particular treatment methods.
ginger is known for its aid in digestion, its anti-nausea,  and its anti-motion sickness properties.
other researchers say that it is difficult to study the effects  of garlic because the same properties that are suspected of producing  anti-carcinogenic effects are also the properties that cause its distinctive  odor.
in all cases the advice of a physician should be sought and followed concerning initiating or discontinuing all medications or treatments.
an emg (electromyograph) is often the instrument used in biofeedback sessions.
chinese herbs easily lend themselves to such western-style research methods, similar to other pharmaceuticals, and their effectiveness can be readily demonstrated to the skeptical western mind.
osteopathic patients are more likely to report feelings of caring and compassion from their practitioner than patients of allopathic practitioners.
researchers are calling for longer and more substantial clinical trials before definitive results can be obtained.
its principle active ingredient is terpinen-4-ol, which acts as a bactericidal substance.
the planner(s), author(s) and/or editor(s) of each course have attested to no conflict of interest nor bias on the subject.
practitioners encourage their clients to incorporate various interventions into their daily lives to promote optimal health.
it's much like the stress on a violin string.
roughly ten percent of the population use chiropractic medicine.
chasteberry can restore a normal estrogen/progesterone balance within the body.
scientific support for the effectiveness of acupuncture comes from understanding its physiological effects.
as an army surgeon in world war ii, dr. valnet used essential oils such as thyme, clove, lemon and chamomile on wounds and burns, and later found fragrances successful in treating psychiatric problems.
sofhauser, cd; "development of a minor in complementary health."
it is extremely important for patients to know that the method of application  is essential for maximum benefit from the oil, and to prevent toxic reactions  that can occur with some substances if they are not applied properly.
enzyme therapy is useful in treating inflammation, viruses, multiple sclerosis, and cancers.
he plunged the injured hand into a  container of lavender oil and was amazed at how quickly it healed.
in some cases "new" remedies in allopathic medicine have been used for years by naturopaths.
case  manager, 2002 jan-feb; 13(1): p22-3.
a norwegian study demonstrated that  fish oils lower both diastolic and systolic blood pressures, decrease serum  triglyceride levels, and decrease serum lipid levels in persons with untreated  hypertension.
its curriculum contained courses similar to those taught in allopathic schools, but stressed the importance of the relationship between structure and function, and focused on the importance of the structure of the musculoskeletal system in overall body function.
black cohosh is a powder usually sold in capsule form, or  as an herbal tea, and derived from a plant commonly known as rattleweed.
positive emotions have positive effects on s-iga levels.
exceeding  the recommended dosage can lead to toxicity, just as it can with allopathic  medicines.
the established role of the nurse in seeing clients holistically, and intervening in all the dimensions - physical, psychological, intellectual, social, and spiritual - places the nurse in a unique position to give information and advice concerning these various new therapies.
chronic fatigue syndrome (cfs) is a fairly new phenomenon that has not been  amenable to allopathic treat ment methods.
bascom, a; "complementary and alternative therapies in occupational  health.
the center for disease control (cdc) defines chronic fatigue syndrome as unexplained fatigue lasting for six months resulting in substantial reduction of activities, plus at least four of the following symptoms: impaired short-term memory, difficulty concentrating, sore throat, tender lymph nodes, muscle pains, joint pains without swelling or redness, headaches of a type or severity not previously experienced, lack of sleep, and malaise of more than one day following exercise.
"convenience and a choice..." is a service  mark (sm) of the national center of continuing education, inc.
evidence shows that brain waves are different during a state of relaxation than they are during tension or anxiety.
these areas include traditional chinese medicine (both herbal and acupuncture), other popular forms of herbal medicine distributed by naturopaths, chiropractic medicine, osteopathic medicine, and homeopathic medicine.
homeopaths believe modern allopathic treatment methods can weaken the body's vital force.
like chiropractics, the theory he developed emphasizes the importance of viewing the body's health holistically by integrating its inherent healing powers, its communication and regulatory feedback mechanisms, and the pivotal role of the musculoskeletal system into a system of thought to promote health maintenance and fight disease.
most practices of traditional chinese medicine trace their roots to the han dynasty of about two thousand years ago.
the locations of the insertion are determined by the diagnosis and treatment goals, but usually involve several different spots on the body at a time.
only if these methods fail are herbs and other chemical interventions tried.
by manipulating the spine and joints through which the flow occurs, chiropractors believe that they remove barriers to the body's natural healing power.
the practitioner assesses pulse strength, length, its trailing characteristics, and what happens between pulse beats.
often powerful drugs with unpleasant side-effects are the allopathic means  of treating hypercholesterolemia.
there were fewer clinic visits, phone consultations, and laboratory uses, as well as fewer hospitalizations, and a decrease in the use of prescription drugs.
a common theme throughout many professional osteopathic journals is the concern that osteopaths, in moving away from manipulative techniques, are losing much of what makes them unique in comparison to other health care providers.
lengacher, ca; bennett, mp; kip, ke; keller, r; la vance, ms; smith, ls;
for years scientists have suspected that fish oils provide protection  against certain types of cancers such as breast and prostate.
the mechanism of action of these extremely dilute substances is not well understood.
increased cholesterol & blood pressure, congestion.
the fda does not approve it because it is classified as a dietary supplement instead of a drug, so it cannot be obtained by prescription, but may be commercially available in health food stores.
symptoms that, at first glance, may appear to be unrelated are treated together as though they are related, so the patient can heal on all levels - physically, emotionally and spiritually.
figure 4 however, the body may contain it's own best pharmacy.
figure 5 homeopathy homeopathy is a system of medicine based on the use of natural substances  to stimulate the body's own healing powers in curing disease.
often, a short time after administering the remedy, the patient's symptoms may worsen for a time.
for more  information, contact the american association of naturopathic physicians in  seattle, washington at 866-538-2267 or www.naturopathic.org.
there is no clinical evidence to support these claims.
therefore, many researchers are excited by a new supplementation product known as genistein, an isoflavone phytoestrogen found naturally in soybeans.
it is important for nurses to remember that allopathic medicine does not  have all the answers to important health questions, and much can be learned  from the wide variety of complementary approaches described in this course.
burman, me; "complementary and alternative medicine: core competencies for family nurse practitioners.
because of the holistic approach to health, nurses are becoming increasingly involved in mind/body medicine in a variety of ways by making appropriate nursing diagnoses, and intervening with appropriate nursing interventions.
like most alternative therapies, there is a long initial interview in which the practitioner/patient relationship is established.
isoflavones are an example of a group of compounds called  phytoestrogens, which exert mild hormonal effects on the body.
most claims  are based on animal and lab studies, and the few that have been conducted on  humans have been inconclusive.
lusby, pe; coombes, a; wilkinson, jm; "honey: a potent agent for wound  healing?"j wound ostomy continence nurs, 2002 nov; 29(6): p295-300.
mccabe, s; "complementary herbal and alternative drugs in clinical  practice.
appropriate nursing diagnoses for referral to a naturopath include the following because they are often responsive to nutritional remedies: many studies on the development and treatment of various cancers are supporting the importance of diet, and other lifestyle issues.
a study showed those taking zinc lozenges had symptoms for 4.4 days, while those who took placebos had symptoms for 7.6 days.
as stated before concerning migraine headaches, treatments selected are  unique to the individual so that two people with the same disease may be  manifesting symptoms in different ways.
the authors of one study suggest that this difference in practice styles starts in medical school.
it also clears congestion, kills intestinal worms, improves immune system functioning, and lowers blood pressure.
like many complementary practices, this one believes that human beings are enlivened by a "vital force" or energy that can be an indicator of the presence of illness.
today's nurse is an integral part of the modern health care delivery system, and provides a positive influence.
several studies have demonstrated its multiple effects on the immune  system.
reflexology is becoming increasingly popular and involves the stimulation of specific points on the ears, hands, and feet that are believed to correspond, or "reflex", through a complex neurological system to specific areas and organs of the body.
homeopathy made its debut in this country around the turn of the century  and was popular for many years but, like many other fields of complementary  medicine, it began to decline as the interest in allopathic medicine rose.
there is more support in some cases for the use of naturopathic interventions than for some pharmaceutical and surgical interventions we now take for granted.
soy isoflavones may encourage bone density in postmenopausal women by binding to an estrogen receptor found in bones, thereby preventing osteoporosis.
this has not been proven, however,  and one taking these herbs should know of the potential dangers, as well as  their benefits.
constitutional remedies work  slowly over time to strengthen the body against further disease.
claims that ginseng acts as  an aphrodisiac do not have supporting evidence.
it is found in both a synthetic and non-synthetic form, but  use of the non-synthetic form is discouraged because of the risk of  contamination or viral transmission.
spearmint (dot oil lightly on temples) for headache relief some of these essential oils are applied topically, and others breathed in.
cox, ce; "frequency of use of complementary and alternative medicine in  women with breast cancer.
ginseng is from an asian class of drugs that interact with neurotransmitters and can alleviate stress.
as stated before concerning migraine headaches, treatments selected are unique to the individual so that two people with the same disease may be manifesting symptoms in different ways.
replacement may ease  insomnia, relieve symptoms of jet lag, strengthen the immune system, fight  certain cancers, act as an antioxidant, relieve some symptoms of seasonal  affective disorder, and prevent ovulation.
the osteopath will use theory and drugs from allopathic medicine along with techniques from mind/body medicine and/or chinese herbs.
feverfew is an herb that has been researched and proven effective against migraines, and prevents the onset of future episodes.
soy supplements are an important part of a holistic approach to heart disease.
complete this course after you have read the material, we must receive your payment and evaluation for this course to complete your order.
"aaohn j, 2002 oct; 50(10): p468-77;  quiz 478-9.
acute remedies are given for short- term illness, such as  the flu or the common cold, while chronic remedies are given for long - term  conditions.
this can include changing exercise patterns, and finding a social support system that can help relieve the stress inherent in modern living.
this has not been proven, however, and one taking these herbs should know of the potential dangers, as well as their benefits.
however,  despite the number of studies showing the benefits of antioxidant  supplementation, consensus about these benefits still does not exist.
homeopathic remedies may help cfs, but because everyone is different, and  there is a wide array of symptoms associated with the syndrome, it is strongly  suggested that one should consult a trained homeopathic practitioner rather  than attempt to self-medicate with homeopathic agents.
it is good in treating headaches (including migraines), immune system conditions, auto-immune disorders, viral and bacterial infections, childhood health problems such as chronic ear infections, croup, bladder infections, emotional and behavioral problems, and even learning disabilities.
the elderly produce about half of that produced by children.
the needles inserted are thin, sterile, and usually disposable; the insertion usually takes place while the patient rests in a reclining position.
they see themselves as part of a comprehensive system of health care that  includes many other traditions with valid intervention that can be used  alongside naturopathy.
often powerful drugs with unpleasant side-effects are the allopathic means of treating hypercholesterolemia.
structural/functional movement methods of massage are used to reinstate balance within the body as well as to improve the ease of movement and are often used in conjunction with deep tissue massage.
as the cost of american health care skyrockets, many health care practitioners are looking for ways to decrease the cost of delivering good care.
black cohosh is a powder usually sold in capsule form, or as an herbal tea, and derived from a plant commonly known as rattleweed.
it is important for nurses to remember that allopathic medicine does not have all the answers to important health questions, and much can be learned from the wide variety of complementary approaches described in this course.
it appears to work by dilating the  blood vessels and preventing vessel spasms.
estrogen begins its decline in women around age 40 and sharply drops off  about age 50.
therefore, nurses should ask why the patient is taking  the herb, how much, what brand, and who suggested its use.
for information on soy supplementation and fda recommendations contact: orthomolecular medicine (often known as megavitamin therapy) is another complementary regimen based on nutrition.
therefore, many researchers are excited by a new  supplementation product known as genistein, an isoflavone phytoestrogen found  naturally in soybeans.
whatever the reason, if one is unable to comply with the rigid diet recommended, it does little to improve their overall health.
they may work on the ldl/hdl ratio; affect the blood coagulation system, making thrombosis unlikely; or prevent the oxidation of the arterial walls.
many studies report relief from symptoms after acupuncture treatments, but none of the studies have been done under conditions applying the strict western principles of research design; therefore, many western trained physicians and researchers remain skeptical about the results of these studies.
no part of this publication may be reproduced stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise without the prior written permission of the publisher.
some suggest that the fda has biases against dietary supplements because of its relationship with large pharmaceutical companies, implying an element of corruption within the fda itself.
homeopathic remedies are divided into three categories - acute, chronic, and constitutional.
the use of massage in stress prevention is widespread.
contraindicated in those with heart disease, hypertension, thyroid disease,  diabetes, enlarged prostate, glaucoma.
tea-tree oil is pressed from the leaves of a tropical tree and has been used for centuries as a topical antiseptic by those living in the south sea islands.
it is  believed to reduce the risk of heart disease and osteoporosis in postmenopausal  women.
most claims are based on animal and lab studies, and the few that have been conducted on humans have been inconclusive.
it is useful in  treating mold, pollen, and food allergies, and rheumatoid arthritis.
their website is www.chedu.org.
it helps release tension, anxiety and pain, and is often used along with mental imagery and/or autosuggestion.
more studies are called for to reproduce these findings.
interestingly, it was a homeopathic physician who was instrumental in the formation of the fda.
over the last few decades the medical establishment has attempted to ease this problem by developing support groups for those afflicted with major illnesses of our modern age.
there is no known cause or lab test to diagnose cfs, but researchers are looking into the possibility that stress causes the immune system dysfunction, viral infection, environmental assault, and neuroendocrine imbalances associated with cfs.
there is no clinical evidence to  support these claims.
echinacea is sold in liquid and capsule form, and is taken orally.
the mechanism by which antioxidants may prevent the development of cardiovascular disease is not fully understood.
afterward, the person can think in a more positive, clear, and hopeful manner, leading to better overall health and functioning.
it is useful in treating mold, pollen, and food allergies, and rheumatoid arthritis.
the first is the vitalistic approach, which emphasizes the body's natural healing powers, insists on lifestyle changes, hydrotherapy, and stress reduction techniques to prevent and treat illnesses.
nurs care qual, 2003 jan-mar; 18(1): p22-6.
patients should be encouraged to continue the practices even if they get impatient for results and want to stop.
in some cases "new" remedies in allopathic medicine  have been used for years by naturopaths.
these findings can be documented scientifically, with an oscilloscope.
his interest in using essential oils therapeutically was stimulated by a laboratory explosion in his family's perfumery business, in which his hand was severely burned.
garlic infections - viral, bacterial, fungal.
they are second only to physicians, and they receive roughly 2/3 of all health care visits for back pain.
that the penalty for criminal violation is up to five years in prison and/or a $250,000 fine under a tough new law.
dr. still taught that manipulative therapies, performed on parts of the musculoskeletal system, would improve the blood supply throughout the body.
this second category is more in line with the views of allopathic medicine, and more easily studied using western scientific research methods.
" like chiropractors, osteopaths view disease as caused by disturbances in the particular location on the spinal column, which supplies the nerves to the particular organ that is malfunctioning.
this not only improves quality of life, but also helps to reduce the  astronomical costs of health care.
the national center of continuing education will pay a substantial reward for information leading to the conviction of any individual or institution making any unauthorized duplication of material copyrighted by w.s. keefer or the national center of continuing education.
when relaxed, the brain is in a more receptive state and, therefore, more open to new ideas.
what happens in the mind of man is always reflected in the disease of his body ...
on a less dramatic note, the fda's requirements of consistent dosages protect people from suffering unnecessary side effects when they switch brands of a product.
the underlying principles of osteopathic medicine include: there are some differences in the ways that dos actually practice their art.
lengacher, ca; bennett, mp; kip, ke; keller, r; la vance, ms; smith, ls; cox, ce; "frequency of use of complementary and alternative medicine in women with breast cancer.
the latest thinking is that the cluster of symptoms is caused by a combination of these factors.
those who think in holistic terms believe these drugs should not be the first choice in the treatment of high cholesterol, but should be used only after efforts at lifestyle and dietary changes have failed.
most practitioners are aware of the danger of toxicity with some vitamins and carefully watch for symptoms.
it can have a side effect of daytime grogginess and exacerbate any tendencies toward depression.
it is true that some herbs with estrogenic properties also have  anti-estrogenic properties.
ginger nausea/vomiting, motion sickness/vertigo,  arthritis.
the insertion goes to a point just below the surface of the skin in the epidural layer and may last anywhere from a few seconds to forty minutes.
naturopaths are trained as primary care providers in a variety of intervention techniques, and may specialize in any of them, or choose to specialize in specific problem areas, such as allergy or arthritis.
the patients who took the lozenges reported significantly less coughing, headache, hoarseness, nasal congestion, and drainage than did the placebo group.
detoxification therapy detoxification therapy is rapidly becoming popular as more people  recognize that they may not feel their best because of their body's exposure to  toxic substances as a result of our modern lifestyle.
because  of the holistic approach to health, nurses are becoming increasingly involved  in mind/body medicine in a variety of ways by making appropriate nursing  diagnoses, and intervening with appropriate nursing interventions.
one study in the us, in a managed care setting, showed those receiving acupuncture had a decrease in the number of times they accessed the system.
homeopaths use the energy of one substance (the  remedy) to heal the energy field of another substance (the ill person) by  arousing this energy field so that it actually heals itself.
cayenne pepper can stimulate blood flow, strengthen the heart and metabolic rate, and aid in digestion.
the importance of the nursing diagnosis involving mind/body medicine is the impact natural treatment has on the nurse's role in providing health care.
unlike most alternative  traditions, practitioners of homeopathy do not consider the relationship the  most important part of the healing process but, instead, attribute most of the  effectiveness of the approach to the remedies themselves and the diagnostic  skills of the practitioners.
the oils are believed to act on the  adrenal glands, ovaries, and the thyroid by traveling from the nose to the  limbic system, which controls heart rate, blood pressure, breathing patterns,  memory, stress levels, and hormone balance.
while it has few contraindications, there is concern that it might spread cancer cells, spread communicable skin diseases, or cause the dislodging of a blood clot.
scientists are also starting to realize the anti-carcinogenic properties of compounds called polyphenols.
whatever the  reason, if one is unable to comply with the rigid diet recommended, it does  little to improve their overall health.
valerian does not seem to interact with alcohol or have a side effect of morning grogginess as other sedatives do.
currently many of these herbal preparations are not classified as drugs, and so are not regulated by the fda.
all interventions are made with the importance of blood circulation in mind.
vaccinations and allergy treatments of allopathic medicine share much the same principle.
homeopathic practitioners tend to be less concerned with the other alternative therapies covered in this course because they administer physical remedies similar to the medications of allopathic medicine and, therefore, believe that relief of symptoms comes from their choice of the right remedy.
for more information on osteo pathy, and a list of board certified practitioners, contact: this category is divided into two sections: to some extent, the alternative therapies covered so far fall into the broad category of "naturopathic" medicine because they are aimed at helping the body to heal itself using natural substances and processes.
genistein may also cause cancer cells to mature, differentiate, and die as normal cells do, which kills the cancer cells.
the use of antioxidants to prevent and treat heart disease has  been an important part of research from earlier findings suggesting that the  oxidation of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol is critical in the development  of arteriosclerosis.
practitioners of meditation caution that it may take awhile before tangible health benefits are seen.
therapeutic touch is a healing method developed by dolores krieger, phd, rn in the 1970s.
there are several key principles underlying the practice of chiropractic medicine.
sessions typically last about 30 minutes and are performed with the patient fully clothed.
claims that ginseng acts as an aphrodisiac do not have supporting evidence.
if the patient is pregnant, the nurse should discourage further use until the patient has consulted with her allopathic primary caregiver, just as one should with any drug.
often, a short time after administering the remedy, the  patient's symptoms may worsen for a time.
enzyme  therapy is useful in treating inflammation, viruses, multiple sclerosis, and  cancers.
when used in conjunction with other therapies, this approach is valuable in treating many diseases.
in an age of  rapidly expanding knowledge about health care and the ability to disseminate  that information quickly and widely, a regulatory agency such as the fda  definitely has its positive and negative qualities.
mccabe, s; "complementary herbal and alternative drugs in clinical practice.
it is used to reduce hot flashes in  menopausal women, but has been found to be more effective if taken with vitamin
recent studies have shown that antioxidants may play a role in reducing the risk of cataracts, age-related macular degeneration, certain neurological disturbances, bladder cancer recurrence, and infectious diseases.
it is also good for anxiety, tension, neuralgia, and the  irritability symptoms of menopause.
for more information, contact: the american college of  hyperbaric medicine, lauderdale-by-the-sea, florida.
most practitioners bring in concepts from diverse health care disciplines and have a broader scope of practice.
we are now registered with ce broker as an approved provider provider # 50-1408.test copyright  2012 national center of continuing education, inc.
the term "aromatherapy" was coined in 1928 by french chemist rene-maurice gattefoss,.
some clinical studies have indicated that it may  be effective in treating acne and other skin infections, as well as vaginal  infections.
the mechanism by which antioxidants may prevent the development of  cardiovascular disease is not fully understood.
it is also not recommended for the physically weak, the  underweight, or for those with hypothyroid or hypoglycemic conditions.
the council on homeopathic education has a list of several accredited programs.
an ideal remedy is matched to this set of symptoms, which would create the  same symptoms if given to a healthy person.
this second category is  more in line with the views of allopathic medicine, and more easily studied  using western scientific research methods.
(title 17, u.s. code, section 506, and title 18, u.s. code section 2319).
such experiences of individuality can provide great insight into one's own psychological makeup.
figure 3 contemporary stress tends to be more pervasive, persistent and insidious because it stems primarily from psychological than physical threats.
it is good in  treating headaches (including migraines), immune system conditions, auto-immune  disorders, viral and bacterial infections, childhood health problems such as  chronic ear infections, croup, bladder infections, emotional and behavioral  problems, and even learning disabilities.
some say that the relief from symptoms may be nothing more than a placebo effect.
dos treat hypertension, generalized muscle pain, fatigue, sleep problems, children infected with measles, and childhood respiratory disorders.
there seem to be few side effects.
cfs strikes primarily women between the ages of 25 and 45, and usually occurs suddenly.
costs in rural areas are lower than those in urban centers.
these can be sources for information, and to learn to cope with distressing thoughts and feelings.
safety during pregnancy has not been established.
to illustrate this point, several patients with migraine headaches would be given several different treatment regimens to follow, depending on whether the pain is localized on the right side of the head, or the left, whether the migraines are associated with hormonal changes of the menstrual cycle or menopause, or whether they are triggered by certain foods and/or emotions.
thus, a spirit of collaboration is forged between practitioners of both western and eastern medicine.
this trend toward legitimizing alternative methods has been apparent in europe for some time.
studies show the technique of mental imagery creates positive physiological changes to boost the immune system functioning.
as we move further into the twenty-first century, it is an exciting time to  be a nurse because of the new techniques and theories of medicine.
studies are currently being conducted to determine the effectiveness of massage in a variety of other ailments as well.
oxygen therapies alter the body's chemistry to help overcome disease, promote healing, and improve overall body function.
as hospital census numbers decrease throughout the  country, more nurses are finding employment in other environments such as home  health, industries, and entrepreneurial ventures of their own.
instead, the patient's progress is  monitored through regular blood work and urinalysis.
these symptoms, and their remedies, are studied  in different ways from other forms of medicine.
some experts have postulated that the economics of health care has played a vital role in maintaining the "disease" mentality rather than encouraging consumer participation in one's own health care because powerful drug companies make money off diseases rather than off wellness.
this method can be used without ever touching the body so it is good for physical conditions in which the body cannot tolerate contact, as for post-surgery or burn patients.
too much tension makes a shrill, annoying noise or snaps the string.
environmental medicine environmental medicine explores the role of dietary and environmental  allergens such as dust, mold, chemicals, and foods in promoting health and  illness.
it is widely used in europe to relieve the symptoms of pms and menopause.
a major advantage of massage therapy is its usefulness to combat the symptoms in a wide variety of stress-related diseases and ailments.
most important, the efforts of pioneers like valnet, maury and tisserand have turned aromatherapy into a disciplined healing art, rediscovering the uses of fragrance from ancient times and sparking a revival of aromatherapy that has swept throughout the world.
soy supplementation may be an answer for many because it lowers overall cholesterol levels, even in the patient who is not maintaining the strict dietary regimen prescribed.
the major difference is that when women have mis after menopause, they are usually more severe than the first heart attacks of men, and women are more likely to die from the first attack than men are.
they are found in fresh fruits and vegetables, and in many grains.
for more information about the use of acupuncture and how to find certified acupuncturists in your area, contact: figure 2 many of our modern western medicines have their origins in some kind of plant or herb.
osteopathic manipulations have proven particularly helpful in these cases when combined with self-help training.
pancreatic enzymes, derived from animals, are used to aid intestinal digestion.
echinacea is sold in liquid and capsule form, and is taken  orally.
ginkgo biloba is an extract from the leaves of the ginkgo tree and is popular in europe where it is usually sold in 40mg tablets.
in other areas of complementary medicine the role of the nurse is to be informed on the subject to better serve patients by providing information about the advantages and disadvantages of these approaches, and to make referrals to the appropriate practitioners.
some theorize that these herbs can protect against  certain estrogen-related cancers as they provide relief for the  estrogen-dependent symptoms of menopause.
homeopathy made its debut in this country around the turn of the century and was popular for many years but, like many other fields of complementary medicine, it began to decline as the interest in allopathic medicine rose.
these interventions include teaching relaxation and meditation techniques to reduce stress, facilitating support groups to encourage psychosocial development, and using therapeutic touch and prayer, when requested, to meet the spiritual needs of their patient.
the american chiropractic association publishes the journal of the american chiropractic association, emphasizes ethical and professional conduct, conducts research, and is involved in lobbying for laws that support the profession.
these  interventions include teaching relaxation and meditation techniques to reduce  stress, facilitating support groups to encourage psychosocial development, and  using therapeutic touch and prayer, when requested, to meet the spiritual needs  of their patient.
it provides a regular format (usually weekly meetings) for teaching new coping methods, training in guided imagery, breath therapy, and other forms of stress release.
other studies have shown acupuncture to be beneficial for gi disturbances, such as nausea and vomiting.
there are no adequate odorless stand-ins for fresh cloves, and the amount of garlic needed to provide definitive answers (often as much as 7-28 cloves a day) is prohibitive, given the odor problems associated with it.
ott, mj; "mindfulness meditation in pediatric clinical practice."
cognitive therapy and/or support group therapy may help, as long as the  practitioner and/or group members maintain a positive attitude.
genistein may also cause cancer cells to mature, differentiate, and  die as normal cells do, which kills the cancer cells.
then the obvious changes in  the body or psyche are meticulously recorded, such as intensity of symptoms,  variations with time of day, and modifying influences of circumstances and  environment.
because research has shown  a correlation between the development of breast cancer and the intake of  omega-6 fatty acids (found mostly in polyunsaturated oils), current research is  looking for a correlation between omega-6 fatty acids and prostate cancer.
they work by invoking pleasant  emotional reactions stored in the brain from previous experiences with a  particular aroma.
naturopathic medicine there are two broad categories of naturopathic medicine.
dubos- preliminary studies revealed an increase in monocyte functioning after chiropractic adjustment, suggesting a possible link between spinal manipulation and immune functioning.
by florida state law you must complete and submit the test, with 70% correct or higher, and an evaluation for each course.
the nurse should provide this information  to a client inquiring about the use of these herbs.
more research is needed before definitive dietary conclusions can be made.
it may act as an antioxidant, useful in treating chronic hypertension, and aid in the reduction of serum cholesterol.
it is believed to work on the energy patterns surrounding a specific thought and its related feelings.
this "higher power" is often referred to as god.
nursing diagnoses for referral to a homeopath might be an appropriate  intervention include: activity intolerance or high risk for activity  intolerance, constipation, diarrhea, fatigue, altered health maintenance, high  risk for infection, altered nutrition patterns - less than or more than body  requirement, and altered urinary elimination patterns.
areas of treatment that need to be amended to meet the needs of the individual patient are also determined.
cancer patients receiving lessons in guided imagery, relaxation training, breath therapy, training in problem-solving techniques, and support group time showed evidence of increased psychological well-being as measured by increased emotional expressiveness, higher levels of positive coping, and increased survival times.
some nurses are trained in massage therapy to better serve their clients' holistic health care needs for comforting touch.
cayenne pepper can stimulate blood  flow, strengthen the heart and metabolic rate, and aid in digestion.
virtually all systems (the heart and blood vessels, the lungs, the digestive system, the sensory organs, the immune system, and brain) are geared up to meet the perceived danger.
this emphasis on the musculoskeletal system is what lends the name "osteopathy.
the best way to evaluate the results of osteopathic care is by a subjective response - the patient feels better.
it elevates wbc, improves the efficiency of macrophages and proteins designed to regulate disease-fighting cells, and may alleviate cold and flu symptoms.
"aaohn j, 2002 oct; 50(10): p468-77; quiz 478-9. bascom, a; "complementary and alternative therapies in occupational health.
to complicate matters further, it  may be that each of these possible mechanisms is linked to a specific  antioxidant.
his interest in using essential oils therapeutically  was stimulated by a laboratory explosion in his family's perfumery business, in  which his hand was severely burned.
much of the success comes from the use of scientific methodology in dealing with disease.
many physical postures, breathing exercises, and meditation practices are similar to those previously mentioned in this section.
"convenience and a choice..." is a service mark (sm) of the national center of continuing education, inc.
its major side effects, which occur at very high  doses, include nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea.
nursing diagnoses for referral to a homeopath might be an appropriate intervention include: activity intolerance or high risk for activity intolerance, constipation, diarrhea, fatigue, altered health maintenance, high risk for infection, altered nutrition patterns - less than or more than body requirement, and altered urinary elimination patterns.
patients should be counseled to report symptoms such as diarrhea, rash, urticaria, or gastrointestinal upset to their healthcare provider.
but while valnet helped inspire a modern aromatherapy movement when his book aromatherapie was translated into english as the practice of aromatherapy, it was the appearance in 1977 of masseur robert tisserand's book the art of aromatherapy, strongly influenced by the work of valnet and gattefoss, that was successful in capturing american interest.
parallels in terms of diet (diets in these countries are high in fat), hormonal dependence, and biological behavior have been found.
being with others who are suffering in similar ways reduces the sense of isolation and loneliness that accompanies many of these diagnoses.
nurses have an important role to play in educating the public about the role of diet and supplementation to maintain optimal health, and to fight the disease process once it has started.
burman, me; "complementary and alternative medicine: core competencies  for family nurse practitioners.
parallels in terms of diet (diets in these countries are high in fat), hormonal  dependence, and biological behavior have been found.
these preparations are not necessarily prescribed by certified herbal practitioners, so the consumer is often unaware of possible adverse reactions from the indiscriminate use of these herbs.
pancreatic  enzymes, derived from animals, are used to aid intestinal digestion.
the use of antioxidants to prevent and treat heart disease has been an important part of research from earlier findings suggesting that the oxidation of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol is critical in the development of arteriosclerosis.
sometimes breath therapy is not used to induce immediate relaxation, but rather to evoke strong emotions so that these emotions, which are often blocks to relaxation, can be released.
stress is not always necessarily harmful.
"perspect psychiatr care, 2002 jul-sep; 38(3): p98-107.
the nearly three thousand homeopathic remedies (of which 200-300 are used  frequently) come from nature in the form of herbs, minerals, and are some  animal products, and are regulated by the fda and sold as over-the-counter  medications.
this system eliminates  junk food, refined sugar, and food additives from the diet while prescribing  large doses of specific vitamins.
dong quai's main side effect is to increase the skin's sensitivity to the sun, and it should never be taken in high doses.
other researchers say that it is difficult to study the effects of garlic because the same properties that are suspected of producing anti-carcinogenic effects are also the properties that cause its distinctive odor.
an overdose can cause dizziness and headaches.
case manager, 2002 jan-feb; 13(1): p22-3.
that your institution's duplication or processing equipment may also be confiscated and destroyed if involved in illegal duplication.
winning a race or contest can be just as stressful as losing, or more so, but may trigger different biological responses.
we are  now registered with ce broker as an approved provider provider # 50-1408.
thought-field therapy intervenes between the thought and the negative emotional content of the thought, to either neutralize or completely remove it before the negative energy has a chance to damage the body.
the majority seeking alternative therapies, no matter what their diagnosis, gravitated to relaxation techniques, chiropractics, massage, guided imagery, and spiritual healing more frequently than they did to interventions that required the intake of any substance (although those with hiv did use vitamin therapies rather often).
dos are now eligible for ama membership, and they have their own professional organization, the american osteopathic association.
a major advantage homeopathy has over conventional medicine is it uses substances in such small amounts to effect a cure, that there are virtually no side effects.
beginnings, 2002 jul-aug; 22(4): p11-2.
detoxification therapy  rids the body of these toxins to improve the immune function, reduce  neurotoxicity and hormonal dysfunction, decrease psychological problems, and  even eliminate cancer cells.
the most common in this country are acupressure and shiatsu (shiatsu was actually developed in japan).
side effects, such as nausea and insomnia, are few and usually occur at very high doses.
no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system  or transmitted in any form or by any mechanical or electronic means,  photocopying, recording or otherwise, without prior written permission of  copyright holder.
it is believed to reduce the risk of heart disease and osteoporosis in postmenopausal women.
however, no difference was found in fevers, muscle aches, or sneezing.
the patient's subjective report of symptom reduction is the major criterion upon which this approach is evaluated.
course evaluation test the test is for your own personal enrichment of the selected course.
health professionals should be aware of this danger.
such a specialization is not readily available  in most western medical schools.
it is more commonly practiced in this culture than the vitalistic method.
it is believed that these anti- carcinogenic properties may be transferred  to humans when they consume these plants.
still founded the first school of osteopathic medicine in 1892.
homeopathic remedies are divided into three categories - acute, chronic,  and constitutional.
as the demand for nontoxic remedies for serious illnesses increases, naturopathic research is receiving more attention from mainstream medicine; allopathic researchers are beginning to research naturopathic remedies, thus providing the scientific data necessary to legitimize naturopathic medicine in the minds of those trained in western medical thought.
a variety of tests are used to determine particular problem substances for  an individual.
homeopathy treats the unique compilation of symptoms of an individual by  paying attention to those symptoms, which may differ from someone else with the  same diagnosis.
the main oils used are: eucalyptus as an expectoral agent everlast as an anti-inflammatory geranium as an antifungal agent lavender for burns and insect bites, and stress mandarin and/or chamomile to reduce anxiety peppermint for nausea and reduction of the symptoms associated with  irritable bowel syndrome palmarosa for herpes.
this practice has had a profound impact on the fields of stress reduction, mind/body interventions, and energy medicine.
commercially available preparations vary as to dosages, so patients should be warned about the possibility of problems if they change brands.
for example, naturopaths have been  using vitamin e for its antioxidant properties for over thirty years.
it has been tested as an option for drug addiction recovery treatment decreasing drug cravings and withdrawal symptoms.
unfortunately, there are people who will take advantage of the lack of controls over many of these alternative substances, and use them in harmful ways to make a quick buck or use them in excess; more is not always better.
naturopathic homeopaths are believed to be better equipped than some mds for the practice of homeopathy because they have often undergone specialization in homeopathy as part of their elective training.
the american osteopath association has developed a medical school program with primary care specialization beyond the basic medical school requirements.
ginseng fatigue, stress, poor immune function,  hot flashes of menopause.
essential oils and aromatherapy the term "aromatherapy" was coined in 1928 by french chemist  rene-maurice gattefoss,.
few techniques are used individually.
in practical terms, this means that often a substance that causes a set of symptoms in a healthy individual will have the opposite effect (a cure) on an ill person with similar symptoms.
the holistic approach of most of the complementary practices naturally lends itself to nursing functions.
oxygen therapies oxygen therapies alter the body's chemistry to help overcome disease,  promote healing, and improve overall body function.
disease is seen as a condition of energy imbalance or flow blockage which can be assessed by moving the hands over the body at a distance of about two to four inches above the body surface.
relaxation techniques can be taught in these settings.
the word stress comes from the latin term, strictus, which means to be drawn tight.
a recent survey of 461 general practice physicians, designed to determine the general attitude of practitioners of traditional western medicine toward complementary approaches to health care, found that 47% had been involved in complementary medicine in some form during the previous week.
nurses may use independently many "natural" therapies (those not requiring pharmaceuticals or surgery) to promote healing.
a norwegian study demonstrated that fish oils lower both diastolic and systolic blood pressures, decrease serum triglyceride levels, and decrease serum lipid levels in persons with untreated hypertension.
however, a few of the more common ones, many of which are actually hormones, will be highlighted.
when obtaining a patient's history, to be alert for medications the patient is taking, including herbal remedies.
because homeopathy uses natural substances, it is considered to be a subspecialty of naturopathic medicine.
j holist nurs, 2002 dec; 20(4): p323-4.
today's nurse is an integral part of the  modern health care delivery system, and provides a positive influence.
if the patient is  pregnant, the nurse should discourage further use until the patient has  consulted with her allopathic primary caregiver, just as one should with any  drug.
biofeedback is a technique that uses special instruments attached to the body to provide the person information about what is occurring in the body at a given moment.
patients should be counseled to report symptoms such as diarrhea,  rash, urticaria, or gastrointestinal upset to their healthcare provider.
frequently, emotional healing occurs before the abatement of  physical symptoms.
find out if a certified practitioner has prescribed them.
it also provides a safe environment for learning how to express emotions in a healthy way, and teaching new nutrition and exercise regimes.
cognitive therapy and/or support group therapy may help, as long as the practitioner and/or group members maintain a positive attitude.
soy proteins are one such supplement shown to be as effective as pharmacological treatments, without the troubling side effects.
some herbs that may help are: homeopathic remedies may help cfs, but because everyone is different, and there is a wide array of symptoms associated with the syndrome, it is strongly suggested that one should consult a trained homeopathic practitioner rather than attempt to self-medicate with homeopathic agents.
the pulse, as one example, provides information on body energy flow and blockage through assessment at various positions in the body such as the wrist, neck, and leg.
these symptoms, and their remedies, are studied in different ways from other forms of medicine.
side  effects, such as nausea and insomnia, are few and usually occur at very high  doses.
these substances have been scientifically tested, and their use strictly controlled, safe dosages were determined, adverse reactions assessed, and guidelines for their use developed and approved by the fda.
the following will focus on a few of the most utilized herbal interventions.
the public perception of the fda as a slow-moving bureaucracy that prevents the latest "cures" from being marketed may have some truth to it.
course evaluation the test is for your own personal enrichment of the selected course.
the role of the nurse is to be informed about alternative and complementary approaches, and to help patients weed through the vast amount of information about these substances so that optimum health care can be achieved, with as little risk as possible.
enzyme supplementation, along with a diet consisting of whole, and whenever possible, raw foods, helps ensure that the proper nutrients are absorbed to restore the body to a fully functioning capacity.
it is important to  remember that herbs with estrogenic properties may be dangerous for women who  have been advised against taking estrogen, either as a hormone replacement in  menopause, or in birth control pills.
garlic has been shown, in some animal studies, to have cancer-suppressing  potential by inhibiting the metabolism of carcinogens in the body, and by  stopping them from binding to genetic material.
the diagnosis of migraine headache is not what leads to the  remedy, but rather the unique way that the migraines are expressed from one  individual to another is what determines treatment choices.
it has serum levels that change on a circadian rhythm pattern, with  higher levels present at night, and lower levels present during the day.
since it is associated with youth and vitality, it is natural to wonder  if replacing it as one gets older would retard the aging process.
the first is the  vitalistic approach, which emphasizes the body's natural healing powers,  insists on lifestyle changes, hydrotherapy, and stress reduction techniques to  prevent and treat illnesses.
the diagnosis of migraine headache is not what leads to the remedy, but rather the unique way that the migraines are expressed from one individual to another is what determines treatment choices.
vitamin, nutrition, and diet therapies abound.
we request you contact us immediately regarding illegal duplication of these copyrighted, printed materials.
some are loyal to the idea that manipulation is central to the practice of osteopathy, but the majority of dos use many allopathic approaches in their work with patients.
unlike most alternative traditions, practitioners of homeopathy do not consider the relationship the most important part of the healing process but, instead, attribute most of the effectiveness of the approach to the remedies themselves and the diagnostic skills of the practitioners.
however, there are some objective criteria such as increased range of motion, lab tests, spinal palpation, and changes in craniosacral motion and pulse.
other herbs that may have estrogenic properties and help reduce hot flashes areblue cohosh, fennel, false unicorn root, red clover, sarsaparilla, unicorn root, wild yam root, and oil of primrose.
heart attack survivors have been able to reduce their death rate by half using mind/body techniques such as stress management and support group therapy; coronary artery blockage is almost always reduced by changing diet, exercise patterns, practicing yoga, and attending support group meetings.
mental imagery uses this suggestible state by creating symbols to imagine specific positive changes occurring in the body, such as the cancer cells attacked by cells of the immune system.
therapeutic touch is taught in over eighty universities and practiced by approximately thirty thousand health care professionals throughout the world.
maitake, from a wild japanese mushroom, has antiviral and immunity  enhancing properties.
they may work on the ldl/hdl  ratio; affect the blood coagulation system, making thrombosis unlikely; or  prevent the oxidation of the arterial walls.
replacement may ease insomnia, relieve symptoms of jet lag, strengthen the immune system, fight certain cancers, act as an antioxidant, relieve some symptoms of seasonal affective disorder, and prevent ovulation.
the dietary changes needed to lower cholesterol are often difficult  for patients to maintain because they require a vigilance that some don't think  they have the time for, find too expensive, or deem inconvenient.
once we receive your payment and evaluation(s) we will process your order and send your certificates.
it has been estimated that 75 -90 percent of all visits to primary care physicians are for stress related problems.
during the civil war and the post-war period, american medicine was not particularly scientific in nature, and considered unorganized.
at present, there are many books available on  aromatherapy.
the patients who took the  lozenges reported significantly less coughing, headache, hoarseness, nasal  congestion, and drainage than did the placebo group.
it is well known for its antibiotic, antifungal, antiviral, and anti-carcinogenic properties.
researchers are calling for longer and more substantial clinical trials before  definitive results can be obtained.
the main principle underlying this  form of medicine is that people are biochemical individuals with their own  special bodily needs and, therefore, rda vitamin and supplement requirements  make little sense as nutrient guides.
once a diagnosis is made, then treatment follows using a variety of therapies such as: physiotherapy, adjustments to problem areas to reduce subluxations and to restore normal joint function, and manipulations such as stretching or traction to relieve adhesions that may have built up from an old injury and which may be impeding flexibility.
ginger is known for its aid in digestion, its anti-nausea, and its anti-motion sickness properties.
if your patient is pregnant, the use of herbal remedies should be discouraged until she has consulted a physician because many of these preparations are uterine stimulants and/or diuretics.
evidence suggests that in large doses, it dilates blood vessels, increasing  circulation throughout the body and improving memory and concentration.
author: marilyn hanser, rn, bsn, ma with excerpts written by shelda l. hudson, rn, bsn, phn the goal of this course is for you to learn about the many options that complementary and alternative therapies have to offer.
the remedies are  not chosen to support the body's nutritional or metabolic needs, or to attack  viruses and other pathogens that may be attacking the body as occurs in  allopathic medicine but, instead, to subtly urge the body's vital force into a  higher level of functioning to eliminate symptoms and their cause.