in addition: lung yin deficiency was responsible for cough, noisy  breathing, sticky sputum and kidney yin deficiency caused vertigo and poor  memory.
the video explains that it accepts the chinese principle which considers stagnation to be an important cause for disease.
these results were achieved by chinese  medicine, after western medicine had failed to control her symptoms.
a contribution by dr e. k. ledermann to the graduation ceremony of the  chinese medical institute and register at the royal free hospital, london, 3  february 2001 published in 'the syndrome', the newsletter of the  chinese medical institute and register, summer 2001 in theinternational  journal of acupuncture.
any such inability  causes anxiety, as the person knows that he ought not to procrastinate.
any disturbance in the channels is liable to cause a  physical, mental and spiritual disturbance.
it is a common experience that new points have to be needled.
‘shiatsu literally means “finger pressure”.
i learnt to distinguish areas that feel empty, as they are lacking in energy, thus requiring tonification, and others that have an excess of qi which requires softening.
like acupuncture, shiatsu uses the meridians, but without the use of needles.
for instance, a woman was able to stop her little boy's nausea and vomiting when she was shown how to apply pressure on pericardium 6 - the pressure having worked on the child's mind, stomach and liver qi.
although she was told that an operation might not lead to freedom from the pain, she had her gall bladder with the stones removed.
‘shiatsu works on the energy qi which flows  to all the pathways, known as meridians.
my third point was lung 8; the patient was encouraged to press the needle when her breathing became laboured.
i was astonished when i and the patient (or  fellow student) would still feel the qi tingling in our hands after they had  been lifted from the skin.
(text  from ray ridolfi and susanne franzen,shiatsu for women, thorsons, 1996.)
it nourishes body, mind and spirit; its smooth flow  ensures health, its obstructed flow spells disease.
an important clinical application  follows.
qi manifests itself in a material-physical and in a spiritual form.
i have  benefited from t'ai chi and i have introduced this video to some of my patients  who have found it very helpful.
in chinese medicine there is no place for such special recognition.
acupuncture corrects the bodily, mental and spiritual aspects.
it is  achieved by passing through the stages which lead to the full t'ai chi.
the antibiotic  is the treatment; it provides another mechanism which corrects the pathological  one.
the antibiotic is the treatment; it provides another mechanism which corrects the pathological one.
the result is "physical fitness, mental alertness and spiritual  awakening".
a few years ago she developed mild colicky pains that were related to gall stones.
this point has a reputation of enabling a patient to deal with resentment and depression apart from relieving nausea and discomfort in the hypochondrium.
it circulates in channels, called meridians.
for instance,  pneumonia is an inflammation affecting the mechanisms in a lung.
it evolved from thousands of years of oriental medical history and  specifically from the traditional japanese medical approach.'
students are also encouraged to apply the treatment to their own  bodily, mental and spiritual personalities.
it  also controls muscles.
the spiritual dimension is an integral part of the meridians which represent the functioning of our organs.
my third point was lung  8; the patient was encouraged to press the needle when her breathing became  laboured.
the liver point and its associated large intestine point proved  very successful, restoring good sleep better appetite and even bringing back  her creative ability to draw.
i also learnt that  touch can be relaxing, stimulating and even painful.
it relies on the holistic  health-making tendency in the universe.
although  she was told that an operation might not lead to freedom from the pain, she had  her gall bladder with the stones removed.
by needling kidney 3, the water metabolism and the perseverance of essential work can be normalised.
chinese medicine is an outstanding example of holism.
the spleen meridian like the stomach meridian is concerned with food digestion.
western scientific medicine has been very  successful in the prevention and treatment of diseases and further successes  can be expected.
my treatment  was only temporarily successful and, as there was a danger of malignant changes  in the colon, she had the whole of her colon and rectum removed.
i used liver 3 together  with large intestine 4.
this point has a reputation of enabling a patient to deal with resentment  and depression apart from relieving nausea and discomfort in the hypochondrium.
the treatment consists in counter-mechanisms.
describing shiatsu as 'finger pressure' is somewhat misleading, as the  therapist will use his thumbs, hands, elbows knees and sometimes his feet  during treatment.'
many people prefer a holistic medicine.
it promotes balance and vitality.
the animal is put down to protect the public, but  this is not punishment, as it is not guilty.
the pressure and stretching techniques encourage self-healing, balance, ease and relaxation.
needling spleen 3 or spleen 6 may provide the necessary strength for  remedying the bodily, mental and spiritual trouble.
any disturbance in the channels is liable to cause a physical, mental and spiritual disturbance.
the colour of her tongue is normal, her pulse is wiry.
back to top the meridians back - for instance, the gall bladder meridian enables us to make decisions, a vital spiritual act which our conscience expects from us.
bladder yin deficiency explained her frequent desire to urinate, often every few minutes.
back to top shiatsu ‘shiatsu is a therapy which works on all the different  energetic levels of the physical, emotional and spiritual aspects of our  personality.
when her restlessness and anxiety became uncontrolled, further medication was not considered a possibility as it would make her lose her balance and fall down.
yin has a cooling and yang a heating effect, yin is the 'water' nature of our body and yang is the 'fire' nature, heating and activating the stored qi into movement.
i have used gall bladder 40 in her case.
the pressure and stretching techniques  encourage self-healing, balance, ease and relaxation.’
western medicine is scientific-objective.
i improved  under chinese medicine.
it does not stand for necessity or determinism for body and mind  which is assumed by science.
patients can be  instructed not only to treat themselves, but also members of their families.
as a doctor, i am especially interested in the wholeness of body, mind and spirit, affirmed by chinese medicine.
she  often complains of hypochondriac pain with distension and nausea, signs of  liver-qi stagnation.
if a patient finds that he is not making vital decisions, his spiritual fault may be corrected by needling gall bladder 40 which, at the same time, may also correct the associated bodily liver disturbance which has resulted in migraine headaches.
i have used gall bladder 40 in her  case.
an excessive energy  or a deficient energy of yin or yang is corrected by special manipulation of  the acupuncture needle.
tongue slightly swollen.
back to top t'ai chi
acupuncture of liver 3 may secure a normal balance  in the energy flow as well as in bodily and spiritual functions.
treatments are  designed to correct these.
she had to agree to being washed by a carer and to be helped to walk about.
qi manifests itself in a material-physical and in a spiritual  form.
i was  delighted when i found that she became quiet and went to sleep after the  treatment for many hours.
the doctor and the patient are not personally related.
these  consist of a material that adheres to the skin and has a small needle attached.
the patient is used to her ileostomy, only occasionally is the discharge too liquid and she then uses some electrolyte replacement.
there was a good  response; her frequency of urination was much reduced.
i can explain the meaning of this freedom by the difference between  an angry animal attacking and wounding a person and an angry person attacking  and wounding another person.
back to top yin and yang back everything in the universe is affected by, and is part of, yin and yang,  composed of two opposing and still complementary principles.
the result is "physical fitness, mental alertness and spiritual awakening".
my fellow students complained that my touch was too heavy.
for several years i have followed the demonstrations of a t'ai chi  video which runs for fifty minutes and which explains the underlying  principles.
describing shiatsu as 'finger pressure' is somewhat misleading, as the therapist will use his thumbs, hands, elbows knees and sometimes his feet during treatment.'
as a doctor, i am  especially interested in the wholeness of body, mind and spirit, affirmed by  chinese medicine.
for many  years i have accepted the need to assume the existence of the spiritual  dimension in medicine.
this point nourishes all yin organs and calms the mind.
i used press needles.
my treatment was only temporarily successful and, as there was a danger of malignant changes in the colon, she had the whole of her colon and rectum removed.
she often complains of hypochondriac pain with distension and nausea, signs of liver-qi stagnation.
the therapist is guided by his or her intuition and  discovers how the patient responds - both are subjects and partners, although  objective signs of health and illness are recorded.
a fault in the flow of energy may cause an overloading of food,  leading to indigestion, but also causes such an accumulation of ideas and  duties that the patient suffers from spiritual indigestion and loses  self-confidence.
back to top shiatsu - shiatsu is a therapy which works on all the different energetic levels of the physical, emotional and spiritual aspects of our personality.
her gall bladder meridian is now also  prevented from reaching its pertaining organ.
one of my books, published in 1984, is entitledmental  health and human conscience: the true and the false self.
but i also had to realise that such predominance does not last and can be  reversed.
patients are therefore diagnosed as sufferers from either bodily or mental diseases.
it houses our ability to think, to study, to focus on a subject and remember.
shiatsu literally means finger pressure.
the stomach meridian ensures that food is properly digested.
students are also encouraged to apply the treatment to their own bodily, mental and spiritual personalities.
i improved under chinese medicine.
it is a  common experience that new points have to be needled.
the spiritual dimension has entered the wholeness of the  human person.
back to top conclusion - i became interested in chinese medicine because western medicine had been unable to help me with a troublesome condition of my legs.
in shiatsu i learnt the importance of empathic understanding of the patient.
my main acupoint for her was  ren 15.
i had the touch of a doctor who uses palpation to make a firm diagnosis.
qi is encouraged to flow freely  throughout the body as the result of certain stretching and breathing movements.
i was astonished when i and the patient (or fellow student) would still feel the qi tingling in our hands after they had been lifted from the skin.
these consist of a material that adheres to the skin and has a small needle attached.
patients can be divided in those who feel too hot and those who feel  too cold, which means that either yin or yang predominates.
my fellow students  complained that my touch was too heavy.
the human aggressor is found guilty by a court.
patients can be divided in those who feel too hot and those who feel too cold, which means that either yin or yang predominates.
back to top clinical problems - case study one case study two - this section is concerned with two patients who suffered from important problems that western scientific medicine was not able to solve, but for which chinese medicine provided an answer.
patients are therefore  diagnosed as sufferers from either bodily or mental diseases.
chinese holism  thus involves whole making which is health.
she developed ulcerative colitis when she was in her early twenties.
bladder yin deficiency explained her frequent desire to urinate, often  every few minutes.
i then applied this knowledge to the treatment of my  patients.
the animal is put down to protect the public, but this is not punishment, as it is not guilty.
back to top case study two back - a woman aged 92.
after a few days these beneficial results stopped.
the kidney meridian not only promotes our water metabolism; it also promotes our ability to persevere with essential tasks.
it evolved from thousands of years of oriental medical history and specifically from the traditional japanese medical approach.'
if the patient has suffered severe emotional deprivation, a stagnation of liver qi causes epigastric pain and severe depression so that creative spiritual activity is made impossible.
my preparation for the practice of chinese medicine was completed when i adopted the use of acupuncture, using needles of different lengths apart from using press needles and using chinese herbs.
her syndrome: general yin deficiency, heart  yin deficiency leading to insomnia, anxiety, occasional palpitations,  agitation, constantly getting up from sitting position, restless walking about.
it nourishes body, mind and spirit; its smooth flow ensures health, its obstructed flow spells disease.
the video explains that it accepts the chinese principle which  considers stagnation to be an important cause for disease.
(text from ray ridolfi and susanne franzen,shiatsu for women, thorsons, 1996.)
these mechanisms involve an acceptance of determinism or necessity and they further entail a concentration on specific parts which are identified in the diagnosis of a particular disease.
it accepts a whole and integrated  natural universe, pervaded by energy, called qi; the substratum of the universe  is also the substratum of human life which interacts with the natural  environment.
a  balance has to be achieved.
an important clinical application follows.
she had to agree to being washed by a carer and to be helped to  walk about.
the patient was seen by a psycho-geriatrician who prescribed drugs to help her to sleep and to calm her.
it circulates in  channels, called meridians.
the actual treatment, approach and philosophy are similar to those of chinese acupuncture.
yang is energy and is non-substantial.
issue 1 & 2, 2001 western medicine - western medicine is scientific-mechanistic; physiology studies normal mechanisms, pathology abnormal ones.
but millions of people are turning to complementary medicine.
in t'ai chi i was introduced to a form of  physiology of chinese medicine - a demonstration of the normal flow of energy  which is the basis for health from a bodily, mental and spiritual point of view.
i learnt to distinguish  areas that feel empty, as they are lacking in energy, thus requiring  tonification, and others that have an excess of qi which requires softening.
back to top conclusion i became interested in chinese medicine because western medicine had  been unable to help me with a troublesome condition of my legs.
a balance has to be achieved.
treatments are designed to correct these.
he or she ought to have manifested his or her ethical freedom and ought to have resisted giving vent to anger.
i found this concept very difficult and had to learn that either yin or yang pre-dominates.
excessive mental stress in our competitive society may have led to constant brooding and memory fault, abdominal distension and weak limbs.
one of my books, published in 1984, is entitledmental health and human conscience: the true and the false self.
a contribution by dr e. k. ledermann to the graduation ceremony of the chinese medical institute and register at the royal free hospital, london, 3 february 2001 published in 'the syndrome', the newsletter of the chinese medical institute and register, summer 2001 in theinternational journal of acupuncture.
it is achieved by passing through the stages which lead to the full t'ai chi.
qi is encouraged to flow freely throughout the body as the result of certain stretching and breathing movements.
they are looking for treatments that do not fragment the sick person and that  do not ignore the spiritual, individual and subjective sides of human life.
therefore, chinese medicine had to be  given to help her.
descartes declared that there are only two fundamental substances in the universe: corporeal (res extensae) and mental (res cogitantes).
i can explain the meaning of this freedom by the difference between an angry animal attacking and wounding a person and an angry person attacking and wounding another person.
i used chinese  acupuncture, but in order to also use shiatsu i employed press needles.
in t'ai chi i was introduced to a form of physiology of chinese medicine - a demonstration of the normal flow of energy which is the basis for health from a bodily, mental and spiritual point of view.
back to top chinese holism - the meridians yin and yang - chinese holism takes different forms.
chinese holism thus involves whole making which is health.
back to top chinese holism the meridians yin and yang chinese holism takes different forms.
it accepts a whole and integrated natural universe, pervaded by energy, called qi; the substratum of the universe is also the substratum of human life which interacts with the natural environment.
yin is matter and is substantial.
a fault in the flow of energy may cause an overloading of food, leading to indigestion, but also causes such an accumulation of ideas and duties that the patient suffers from spiritual indigestion and loses self-confidence.
the therapist is guided by his or her intuition and discovers how the patient responds - both are subjects and partners, although objective signs of health and illness are recorded.
the liver meridian provides a supply of blood to the whole body.
it does not stand for necessity or determinism for body and mind which is assumed by science.
she was fitted with a bag to receive the faeces from her ileum.
here we have a fundamental extension of the cartesian dualism of body and mind.
but her gall bladder and liver meridians need  attention.
the  patient was seen by a psycho-geriatrician who prescribed drugs to help her to  sleep and to calm her.
yin has a cooling and yang a heating effect, yin is the  'water' nature of our body and yang is the 'fire' nature, heating and  activating the stored qi into movement.
any such inability causes anxiety, as the person knows that he ought not to procrastinate.
more important than her physical discomfort is her emotional and spiritual condition.
i learnt that the sympathetic and  parasympathetic systems are responsible for these phenomena.
the stomach meridian ensures that food is properly  digested.
chinese medicine is an outstanding  example of holism.
needling spleen 3 or spleen 6 may provide the necessary strength for remedying the bodily, mental and spiritual trouble.
issue 1 & 2, 2001 western medicine western medicine is scientific-mechanistic; physiology studies  normal mechanisms, pathology abnormal ones.
back to top back i have been this patient's doctor for over thirty years.
qi is in constant flux and assumes different forms.
my main acupoint for her was ren 15.
i used liver 3 together with large intestine 4.
the liver point and its associated large intestine point proved very successful, restoring good sleep better appetite and even bringing back her creative ability to draw.
for instance, pneumonia is an inflammation affecting the mechanisms in a lung.
if a patient finds  that he is not making vital decisions, his spiritual fault may be corrected by  needling gall bladder 40 which, at the same time, may also correct the  associated bodily liver disturbance which has resulted in migraine headaches.
acupuncture corrects the bodily,  mental and spiritual aspects.
i developed a form of psychotherapy, called "true-self psychotherapy" which is based on a recognition of conscience, as our arbiter of right and wrong.
thus, her large intestine meridian could no more arrive at its pertaining organ.
my preparation for the practice of  chinese medicine was completed when i adopted the use of acupuncture, using  needles of different lengths apart from using press needles and using chinese  herbs.
in shiatsu i learnt the importance of empathic understanding of the  patient.
excessive mental stress in our competitive society may  have led to constant brooding and memory fault, abdominal distension and weak  limbs.
shiatsu works on the energy qi which flows to all the pathways, known as meridians.
he or she ought to have manifested his or her ethical  freedom and ought to have resisted giving vent to anger.
i developed a  form of psychotherapy, called "true-self psychotherapy" which is  based on a recognition of conscience, as our arbiter of right and wrong.
the spiritual dimension has entered the wholeness of the human person.
in addition: lung yin deficiency was responsible for cough, noisy breathing, sticky sputum and kidney yin deficiency caused vertigo and poor memory.
i found this  concept very difficult and had to learn that either yin or yang pre-dominates.
here we have a fundamental extension of the cartesian dualism  of body and mind.
back to top clinical problems case study one case study two
they are looking for treatments that do not fragment the sick person and that do not ignore the spiritual, individual and subjective sides of human life.
the actual  treatment, approach and philosophy are similar to those of chinese acupuncture.
the patient is used to  her ileostomy, only occasionally is the discharge too liquid and she then uses  some electrolyte replacement.
back to top the meridians back for instance, the gall bladder meridian enables us to make decisions, a  vital spiritual act which our conscience expects from us.
descartes  declared that there are only two fundamental substances in the universe:  corporeal (res extensae) and mental (res cogitantes).
these mechanisms involve an  acceptance of determinism or necessity and they further entail a concentration  on specific parts which are identified in the diagnosis of a particular disease.
back to top case study one back - i have been this patient's doctor for over thirty years.
it can be avoided if one performs t'ai chi regularly which encourages self-development.
but i also had to realise that such predominance does not last and can be reversed.
back to top back a woman aged 92.
it relies on the holistic health-making tendency in the universe.
it also controls muscles.
a few years  ago she developed mild colicky pains that were related to gall stones.
i have benefited from t'ai chi and i have introduced this video to some of my patients who have found it very helpful.
her gall bladder meridian is now also prevented from reaching its pertaining organ.
the  spleen meridian like the stomach meridian is concerned with food digestion.
this section is concerned with two patients who suffered from  important problems that western scientific medicine was not able to solve, but  for which chinese medicine provided an answer.
she was fitted  with a bag to receive the faeces from her ileum.
needling stomach 45 may calm his stomach and his spirit.
there was a good response; her frequency of urination was much reduced.
the kidney meridian not only promotes our water metabolism; it also  promotes our ability to persevere with essential tasks.
for instance, a woman was able to stop her little boy's nausea and vomiting  when she was shown how to apply pressure on pericardium 6 - the pressure having  worked on the child's mind, stomach and liver qi.
empathy is making an effort to feel another's emotions which may  express spiritual suffering.
i then applied this knowledge to the treatment of my patients.
but her gall bladder and liver meridians need attention.
when her restlessness and anxiety became  uncontrolled, further medication was not considered a possibility as it would  make her lose her balance and fall down.
empathy is making an effort to feel another's emotions which may express spiritual suffering.
the spiritual dimension stands for ethical freedom.
chinese medicine has been a revelation to me.
in 1997 i joined the foundation course, arranged by the british school of shiatsu.
the human aggressor is found  guilty by a court.
i combined ren 15 with ren 3.
by  needling kidney 3, the water metabolism and the perseverance of essential work  can be normalised.
more important than her physical discomfort is her  emotional and spiritual condition.
in shiatsu such  objectivity is not the aim.
western medicine is dominated by cartesian doctrine.
i used chinese acupuncture, but in order to also use shiatsu i employed press needles.
i was delighted when i found that she became quiet and went to sleep after the treatment for many hours.
patients can be instructed not only to treat themselves, but also members of their families.
i also learnt that touch can be relaxing, stimulating and even painful.
it houses our ability to think, to study, to focus on a  subject and remember.
it can be avoided if  one performs t'ai chi regularly which encourages self-development.
acupuncture of liver 3 may secure a normal balance in the energy flow as well as in bodily and spiritual functions.
western scientific medicine has been very successful in the prevention and treatment of diseases and further successes can be expected.
therefore, chinese medicine had to be given to help her.
for many years i have accepted the need to assume the existence of the spiritual dimension in medicine.
her syndrome: general yin deficiency, heart yin deficiency leading to insomnia, anxiety, occasional palpitations, agitation, constantly getting up from sitting position, restless walking about.
an excessive energy or a deficient energy of yin or yang is corrected by special manipulation of the acupuncture needle.
in 1997 i joined the foundation course, arranged by the british  school of shiatsu.
the reason for choosing the liver meridian was this  patient's spiritual grievance, her resentment that she was no longer able to be  independent.
the students were expected to practise on each other,  instructed by the teacher.
i learnt that the sympathetic and parasympathetic systems are responsible for these phenomena.
back to top t'ai chi -
in shiatsu such objectivity is not the aim.
if the  patient has suffered severe emotional deprivation, a stagnation of liver qi  causes epigastric pain and severe depression so that creative spiritual  activity is made impossible.
i had the touch of a doctor who uses  palpation to make a firm diagnosis.
these results were achieved by chinese medicine, after western medicine had failed to control her symptoms.
the students were expected to practise on each other, instructed by the teacher.
for several years i have followed the demonstrations of a t'ai chi video which runs for fifty minutes and which explains the underlying principles.
thus, her large intestine  meridian could no more arrive at its pertaining organ.
the reason for choosing the liver meridian was this patient's spiritual grievance, her resentment that she was no longer able to be independent.
- back to top yin and yang back - everything in the universe is affected by, and is part of, yin and yang, composed of two opposing and still complementary principles.
the  spiritual dimension is an integral part of the meridians which represent the  functioning of our organs.
she  developed ulcerative colitis when she was in her early twenties.