three  months later, his symptom was noticeably relieved.
the most common types of yin in clinical practice are  "heart yin" and "kidney yin".
i came to america in the 1980s, and soon obtained my california acupuncturist license, and opened my own clinic in san francisco to practice traditional chinese medicine (tcm).
for chronic patients, right prescription should be based on the  different symptoms of qi deficiency or yin deficiency.
patients who have a  cold, the most common respiratory disease, normally do not see doctors at the  beginning.
patients who have a cold, the most common respiratory disease, normally do not see doctors at the beginning.
for patients having yellowish purulent sputum, i will give themqing qi hua tan pian at high doses to clear the lung heat, resist bacteria, and stabilize the condition.
once i had a patient who was over 70.
but theories of tcm believe that it is very important to clear up the damp heat, since virus will be very hard eliminated in the existence of damp heat.
i was born in a family of tcm doctors and have been imperceptibly influenced by what i saw and heard since my childhood, so i understand how important it is to make the right prescription and use good quality chinese herbs in practicing tcm.
my  diagnosis indicated the insomnia was caused by yin deficiency this time, so i  instead prescribed himtian wang bu xin pian.
activeherb technology, inc., 11588 sorrento valley road, suite 17, san diego,  ca 92121 †these statements have not been evaluated by the food and  drug administration.
by dahe liu,  professor of the acchs i graduated from shanghai university of traditional chinese medicine in  china.
for example, for a patient had been suffering from dry cough  with little phlegm for three months, i prescribed him bai he gu jin wan.
being very painful, he bought several kinds of chinese medicines to treat his  insomnia, but none of them worked.
after a tcm doctor gives the right prescription, the key for a successful treatment then lies on whether the right chinese medicine brand is chosen that has consistent and supreme quality and remarkable efficacy.
it is safe and reliable, and has a positive effect on the recovery of patients.
they are not to replace the advice of your physicians.
believe that it is very important to clear up the damp heat, since virus will  be very hard eliminated in the existence of damp heat.
my account | 1-858-847-7310 | 中文 i graduated from shanghai university of traditional chinese medicine in china.
tian wang bu xin wan is not only good at treating liver yin deficiency, but also excellent in treating insomnia caused by heart yin deficiency.
that is because the side effects of western medicines have greatly consumed the  yin energy of the body.
at present, tcm doctors are officially recognized as acupuncturists in america, but anyone who has knowledge about tcm can tell that a tcm doctor can hardly accomplish the goal of "curing sickness and saving life" without using chinese medicine.
as a result, guang ci tang's tian wang bu xin pian is so far the most commonly used chinese medicine in my clinic.
after a chemotherapy or radiation therapy, many cancer patients display symptoms of yin deficiency.
some patients have been taking tian wang bu xin wan (pian) for several years, and their immune function and other functions are all rather ideal.
first, they are produced by shanghai tong han chun herbs factory, one of the  leading tcm manufacturers in china and with a solid reputation; second, they  are supreme in raw materials, perfect in workmanship and reliable in quality;  third, they are made of pure natural herbal ingredients.
i have to emphasize that, when treating such  kind of diseases, a dialectical diagnosis and a right prescription are  extremely important.
as long as an impairment of yin is indicated by  red tongue, the chinese medicine may be used continuously.
they often come to seek a treatment one week later when, according to theories of tcm, the cold of most patients has already entered into their inner body, turned into heat, which then causes mild pneumonia or bronchitis.
i have to emphasize that, when treating such kind of diseases, a dialectical diagnosis and a right prescription are extremely important.
as a result,  guang ci tang's tian wang bu xin pian is so far the most commonly used chinese  medicine in my clinic.
after a careful review, i decided to use guang ci tang brand patent chinese medicines for several reasons.
thus, an authentic tcm doctor shall  not only be skilled in applying acupuncture, but also be good at applying  chinese medicines.
traditionally chinese medicines are mostly made in the form of decoction.
i also teach in the academy of chinese culture and health sciences (acchs) since 1988 and currently supervise candidates in its master and doctor programs in tcm.
therefore, when treating patients with liver diseases, even if the lab test indicates for a normal liver function, as long as there is damp heat in the liver and gall, i will give patientslong dan xie gan wan (pian) to help clear the virus quickly and thoroughly.
therefore, when treating  patients with liver diseases, even if the lab test indicates for a normal liver  function, as long as there is damp heat in the liver and gall, i will give  patientslong dan xie gan wan (pian) to help clear the virus quickly and  thoroughly.
you can reach me at 415-253-3418.
for those with qi deficiency,gan bing zhi ben wan (pian) can adjust the gastrointestinal system and stabilize the condition; for those with yin deficiency,tian wang bu xin wan (pian) can reduce the impacts on the nervous system posed by liver diseases, of which the most common symptoms include irritability, insomnia, etc.
this case is just a demonstration of the dialectical theory in tcm - "treating the same disease with different methods or treating different diseases with the same therapy".
i also teach in the academy of chinese  culture and health sciences (acchs) since 1988 and currently supervise  candidates in its master and doctor programs in tcm.
he  gu jin wan (pian).
this case is just a demonstration of the dialectical theory in tcm -  "treating the same disease with different methods or treating different  diseases with the same therapy".
chinese medicine shows good  results in helping western medicine treat cancer patients.
for patients having yellowish purulent sputum, i will give themqing qi hua tan  pian at high doses to clear the lung heat, resist bacteria, and stabilize the  condition.
respiratory diseases.
they have passed all kinds of tests,  and thus are safe and reliable; fourth, they are highly concentrated, have  shown satisfactory results; fifth, their innovative tablets are more easily  absorbed and can achieve even better results; sixth, they have a great variety  and reasonable prices.
i was born in a family of tcm doctors and have been  imperceptibly influenced by what i saw and heard since my childhood, so i  understand how important it is to make the right prescription and use good  quality chinese herbs in practicing tcm.
tian wang  bu xin wan is not only good at treating liver yin deficiency, but also  excellent in treating insomnia caused by heart yin deficiency.
that is because the side effects of western medicines have greatly consumed the yin energy of the body.
(translated from the  original in chinese)
in my practice, they  serve an extraordinary role that demonstrates "good chinese medicines are  good to health".
my diagnosis indicated the insomnia was caused by yin deficiency this time, so i instead prescribed himtian wang bu xin pian.
if the patient has symptoms such as chronic cough, dry cough with little phlegm, uncomfortable throat, or chronic bronchitis, it indicates that the patient has a lung qi and yin deficiency, which can be treated withbai
the most common types of yin in clinical practice are "heart yin" and "kidney yin".
after years of study and  clinical practice, i come to further appreciate the ancient chinese maxim of  "a good doctor is someone who is good at both acupuncture and  medicine".
for those with qi  deficiency,gan bing zhi ben wan (pian) can adjust the gastrointestinal system  and stabilize the condition; for those with yin deficiency,tian wang bu xin wan  (pian) can reduce the impacts on the nervous system posed by liver diseases, of  which the most common symptoms include irritability, insomnia, etc.
at that time, he was writing a book day and night, which then hurt his liver and caused insomnia.
he gu jin wan (pian).
after a careful review, i decided to  use guang ci tang brand patent chinese medicines for several reasons.
his insomnia was gone soon after.
as long as an impairment of yin is indicated by red tongue, the chinese medicine may be used continuously.
today, people hardly drink decoction that takes time and effort to prepare, they rather prefer to take the convenient patent chinese medicines.
in my practice, they serve an extraordinary role that demonstrates "good chinese medicines are good to health".
to fully illustrate the importance of skillful application of chinese medicine, here i would like to briefly share some of my personal experiences.
if the patient has symptoms such as chronic cough, dry cough with  little phlegm, uncomfortable throat, or chronic bronchitis, it indicates that  the patient has a lung qi and yin deficiency, which can be treated withbai
(translated from the original in chinese) (c) 2003-2011, activeherb technology, inc.
to fully illustrate the importance of skillful  application of chinese medicine, here i would like to briefly share some of my  personal experiences.
contents in www.activeherb.com is for information purpose  only and are written to our best knowledge and expertise for the scientific  accuracy.
learn more about guang ci tang shop with guang ci tang patent chinese medicine productsnow home | about activeherb |  contact us | privacy  policy | where to buy locally | wholesale order help: ways to order | mail  order |  邮购 | shipping cost | return policy | international order  |order faq (c) 2003-2011, activeherb technology, inc.
the normal solution to treat liver diseases in western medicine uses antiviral drugs and does not employ any other special treatment.
they often come to seek a treatment one week later when, according  to theories of tcm, the cold of most patients has already entered into their  inner body, turned into heat, which then causes mild pneumonia or bronchitis.
we can usetian wang bu xin wan  to nourish heart yin andzhi bo di huang pian to tonify kidney yin, both of  which give rather satisfactory results.
they do not contain western medicines and other impurities.
being very painful, he bought several kinds of chinese medicines to treat his insomnia, but none of them worked.
any reproduction without in its entirety and without explicit credits  to activeherb is prohibited.
the normal solution to treat liver diseases in western medicine uses antiviral  drugs and does not employ any other special treatment.
i came to america in the 1980s, and soon obtained my california  acupuncturist license, and opened my own clinic in san francisco to practice  traditional chinese medicine (tcm).
at present, tcm doctors are officially recognized as  acupuncturists in america, but anyone who has knowledge about tcm can tell that  a tcm doctor can hardly accomplish the goal of "curing sickness and saving  life" without using chinese medicine.
they do not contain  western medicines and other impurities.
first, they are produced by shanghai tong han chun herbs factory, one of the leading tcm manufacturers in china and with a solid reputation; second, they are supreme in raw materials, perfect in workmanship and reliable in quality; third, they are made of pure natural herbal ingredients.
chinese medicine shows good results in helping western medicine treat cancer patients.
he was recovered very shortly.
"good medicine is bitter to the  mouth but good for health ", as an old chinese saying goes.
after a tcm doctor  gives the right prescription, the key for a successful treatment then lies on  whether the right chinese medicine brand is chosen that has consistent and  supreme quality and remarkable efficacy.
a year later, i received a call from the patient, who said that he  got insomnia again, but this time long dan xie gan pian didn't work for him.
his insomnia was gone  soon after.
for example, for a patient had been suffering from dry cough with little phlegm for three months, i prescribed him bai he gu jin wan.
thus, an authentic tcm doctor shall not only be skilled in applying acupuncture, but also be good at applying chinese medicines.
three months later, his symptom was noticeably relieved.
being good at applying chinese medicines means, first, to diagnose dialectically and make the right prescription, and second, to choose the chinese medicines that have supreme quality and efficacy, neither of them are dispensable.
they have passed all kinds of tests, and thus are safe and reliable; fourth, they are highly concentrated, have shown satisfactory results; fifth, their innovative tablets are more easily absorbed and can achieve even better results; sixth, they have a great variety and reasonable prices.
from my diagnosis, he had yellow and greasy tongue coating and bad breath and was irritable, so i prescribed him guang ci tang'slong dan xie gan pian to eliminate the damp heat.
from my diagnosis, he had yellow and greasy  tongue coating and bad breath and was irritable, so i prescribed him guang ci  tang'slong dan xie gan pian to eliminate the damp heat.
for chronic patients, right prescription should be based on the different symptoms of qi deficiency or yin deficiency.
it is safe and  reliable, and has a positive effect on the recovery of patients.
"good medicine is bitter to the mouth but good for health ", as an old chinese saying goes.
activeherb technology, inc., 11588 sorrento valley road, suite 17, san diego, ca 92121
some patients have been taking tian  wang bu xin wan (pian) for several years, and their immune function and other  functions are all rather ideal.
being good at applying chinese medicines means,  first, to diagnose dialectically and make the right prescription, and second,  to choose the chinese medicines that have supreme quality and efficacy, neither  of them are dispensable.
we reserve the copyright to protect our  contents.
after a chemotherapy  or radiation therapy, many cancer patients display symptoms of yin deficiency.
this product is not intended to diagnose, treat, cure or  prevent any disease.
over the years of my career in teaching and practicing  chinese medicine, guang ci tang patent chinese medicines are proven indeed  excellent and have become an important companion to me.
the research  cited in our contents are published in scientific journals and have not  subjected to the fda evaluation.
at that time, he was  writing a book day and night, which then hurt his liver and caused insomnia.
we can usetian wang bu xin wan to nourish heart yin andzhi bo di huang pian to tonify kidney yin, both of which give rather satisfactory results.
traditionally  chinese medicines are mostly made in the form of decoction.
the no. 1 place  americans shop chinese herbs search: good chinese medicines are good to  health (the chinese medical report, may 15, 2009)
today, people  hardly drink decoction that takes time and effort to prepare, they rather  prefer to take the convenient patent chinese medicines.
after years of study and clinical practice, i come to further appreciate the ancient chinese maxim of "a good doctor is someone who is good at both acupuncture and medicine".
a year later, i received a call from the patient, who said that he got insomnia again, but this time long dan xie gan pian didn't work for him.
over the years of my career in teaching and practicing chinese medicine, guang ci tang patent chinese medicines are proven indeed excellent and have become an important companion to me.