however, some patients prefer the original flavor of the raw  herbs.
it is the most convenient way to take herbal medicine.
patients are able to purchase raw herbs from us  online.
herbal extracts since the decoction method is time consuming, and the taste of the decoction is unpalatable to many, herbal extracts (concentrated chinese herbal granules) are developed.
herbal medicine remedies chinese herbs are safe and effective sanjiu gives options to patients allowing them to choose between the  traditional raw herbs to the modern high-tech products.
pulverized herbs in capsules or pills another type of herbal medicine is made in the form of capsules and pills similar to western medicine.
sanjiu china is the largest medical and pharmaceutical products producer in  china.
traditionally, a specially glazed clay teapot is  used to make the tea.
then the  tea is automatically vacuum packed for immediate use.
we offer the best quality, the best price, and the best service.
raw herbs the conventional method of applying herb therapy is by decoction - a strong "tea" made by simmering raw herbs in water.
herbal extract is a representation of a new generation of chinese herbal products, offering a safe and convenient way of using herbal medicine.
click here for further information about the quality of sanjiu's  pharmaceutical products.
sanjiu's herbal extracts are also being used in the clinical research & services centres around the world.
however, most of the chinese medicine doctors prescribe chinese herbs to the  patients according to the specific symptoms and conditions.
sanjiu medical & wellness centre is an industry leader in canada that adopts the use of modernized herbal chinese medicines in the form of instant herbal extracts which are manufactured by sanjiu china, our parent company.
pulverized herbs in capsules or pills another type of herbal medicine is made in the form of capsules and pills  similar to western medicine.
then the tea is automatically vacuum packed for immediate use.
we have a collection of over 700 types of commonly used herbs of the top quality.
patients are able to purchase raw herbs from us online.
click here for further information about the quality of sanjiu's pharmaceutical products.
to serve our patients better, we installed a computerized automatic  decoction machine that is able to cook the raw herbs automatically.
sanjiu medical & wellness centre is an industry leader in canada that  adopts the use of modernized herbal chinese medicines in the form of instant  herbal extracts which are manufactured by sanjiu china, our parent company.
the herbal extracts come from sanjiu  china with gmp certification.
home chinese medicine herbal medicine acupuncture massage therapy yoga therapy food therapy therapeutic exercises infertility pain & orthopedics cancer treatment weight loss insomnia liver health kidney health healing center tcm home how tcm can help you services - acupuncture - herbal medicine - skeleton check up and manipulation
- tui na - food therapy - qi gong therapy treatment - pain management - cancer prevention and treatment support - diabetes - infertility - depression - hypertension - stoke - all other internal diseases fees doctors facilities & technology articles health-care insurance program ask our experts herbal medicine remedies chinese herbs are safe and effective sanjiu gives options to patients allowing them to choose between the traditional raw herbs to the modern high-tech products.
please click here to order raw herbs and other products online.
to serve our patients better, we installed a computerized automatic decoction machine that is able to cook the raw herbs automatically.
sanjiu china is the largest medical and pharmaceutical products producer in china.
however, some patients prefer the original flavor of the raw herbs.
herbal extracts since the decoction method is time  consuming, and the taste of the decoction is unpalatable to many, herbal  extracts (concentrated chinese herbal granules) are developed.
sanjiu's herbal extracts are designed for professional use by chinese medicine practitioners, and they are not available in retail stores.
prepared and pulverized herbs are usually prepared according to classical  chinese herbal formula.
sanjiu's herbal extracts are designed for professional use by chinese  medicine practitioners, and they are not available in retail stores.
in some situation, the effectiveness of the pulverized (patent) medicine is not as good as raw herbs and herbal extracts.
prepared and pulverized herbs are usually prepared according to classical chinese herbal formula.
types of herbal medicine 1.
the herbal extracts come from sanjiu china with gmp certification.
herbal extract  is a representation of a new generation of chinese herbal products, offering a  safe and convenient way of using herbal medicine.
we have a collection of over 700 types of commonly used  herbs of the top quality.
cooked herbal medicine (vacuum packed) herbal extracts may be the easiest way to prepare herbal medicine.
click here to purchase online.
cooked herbal  medicine (vacuum packed) herbal extracts may be the easiest way to prepare  herbal medicine.
these extracts carry the same potency.
these extracts carry the same  potency.
in some situation,  the effectiveness of the pulverized (patent) medicine is not as good as raw  herbs and herbal extracts.
the top quality raw herbs are imported direct from china.
traditionally, a specially glazed clay teapot is used to make the tea.
please visit our other websites click to learn chinese medicine modern chinese medicines tcm organiser software 39madeincanada © 2010 sanjiu
please  click here to order raw herbs and other products online.
sanjiu medical centre builds up the most complete and high performance stock of chinese herbs.
we are pleased to ship the herbs to anywhere around the world.
however, most of the chinese medicine doctors prescribe chinese herbs to the patients according to the specific symptoms and conditions.
the top quality raw  herbs are imported direct from china.
sanjiu medical centre builds up the most complete and high performance  stock of chinese herbs.
raw herbs the conventional method of  applying herb therapy is by decoction - a strong "tea" made by  simmering raw herbs in water.
sanjiu's  herbal extracts are also being used in the clinical research & services  centres around the world.