i tried a 100% pure glycerin soap and had a reaction.
i should have paid more attention to the class on  osmosis!
up til then i'd been told that she was just "a cranky baby" and that she had a bad "heat rash".
keep your hair very short while using it.
do any of the other moms and dads out there give their small children similar medicines?
when i wrote the first letter asking about evaporation my face was getting pretty bad, along with my hands, forearms, neck, and legs.
it's hard to keep up with the various regimens.
i was thinking of making a paste of zinc oxide and hypoallergenic brownish lipstick for covering the rash but my eczema has subsided so much that i don't even use much zinc oxide anymore.
which still might be  true, actually, but it was such a great thing to have him break the 20-pound  barrier.
we are sleeping now though and she looks great
oh, i used to have it, but fortunately i outgrew it; or,  yes, isn't that awful, my daughter has it, or things like that.
it's so cold, even when i turn my heater down to minimal, it's still very drying indoors.
my skin is the best it's been since my flare-up began last december.
if not, he said something that i noted immediately -- "we'll just have to call it eczema, and you'll just have to live with it".
i use to work  in retail and would stock shelves and just the chemicals from the cardboard  would make me red and itchy---i don't have e. sue, thanks for the imput on e, allergies and asthma.
how about whichever dress you fancy with a lace wrap on top?
i can go on and on and on... thinking...
recommended to me years ago and they are the only moisturizers i have used for a long period of time that don't irritate my skin (quite soothing actually).
i have renewed energy, do not scratch at night and am not experiencing any itching that i cannot easily resist.
i just slip right into bed after that...
i have had rashes, pityriasis rosea and  eczema.
it is good to know there are other parents out there that have a hard time getting there little ones attention to stop itching.
i have noticed that  since i have quit taking the nature's biotics caplet, my eczema has gotten  worse, so i know that that one is helpful.
this works especially well in public places if  said in a slightly louder than normal voice.
theraplex emollient and theraplex clear lotion by medics dermatologics, inc. in phoenix, az # 800-845-1313.
earlier in the day yesterday, she saw the  chiropractor.
i used to have a dog; now i can't even enter a home that has one without having a full blown reaction.
i use vitamin e oil right after i shower, while my skin is still wet (i just kind of drip dry and let the oil dry with my skin, as towels irritate me).
i love fish and seafood...
our insurance does not cover it.
i was born with eczema, came home from the hospital with it.
i used that several times in the past very successfully for psoriasis, which was my bad skin problem growing up.
i ordered the video "alexander, the elephant who can't eat peanuts".
date: 11 feb 1997 12:40:05  from: michael subject: base for steroid cream i used to use a hydrocorozone cream that was in a cold cream type base.
i also wanted to comment on the food allergy issue... for those of you who have kids who are "allergic to everything," or for whom it seems that way.
koo and a nurse named pat mcclelland.
six nights in a row of no itching.
but it has powerful results, including a decrease in tension/stress.
i've added zinc to my vitamin regimin.
sure  enough, polypropylene glycol is in there!
this is just too long, my son has gotten little pimple looking things on this chest and back (were acne is in teenagers)
stay in touch - the support is so strong here.
it's like  osteopathy without the force.
i use lubriderm as a moisturizer (my  doctor's suggestion) and clotriminazole 1% (i got that tip here).
feelings of anger, guilt, and frustration at my parents still cloud my thinking now, esp.
she also  tends to scratch more when she is not content i.e. like when she is sleepy but  doesn't want to sleep; or if she can't get to where she wants to go.
eventually every time i put the cream on  my eczema would burn.
usually this is a place no one can see; it  figures that it's bad now when someone will need to concentrate on this area.
and i definitely have eczema.
eczema is no fun, but otherwise our son is a beautiful, healthy little boy and so full of joy.
he drew blood for one set of tests, and has me scheduled for an allergy patch test (aagh!
"the single vegan" --
fabric stores, clothes shopping, and e. i was just rereading a supportive message from royce (thank you again!)
my  skin, however, is very sensitive to various oils (can't tolerate mineral oil  formulations such as eucerin or creams with more than just a little petrolatum)
out in the newsgroups i have several times found people that thought they had "eczema" but really had undiagnosed dermatitis herpetiformis.
through trial and error i've found it best (for me) to take 4000mg (4 x 1000mg capsules) each day.
date: 12 feb 1997 08:54:10 from: gary subject: longs scalp relief medicine i don't know which of these might be marketed in the uk, but here are three similar formulations that were on the shelf together.
so i was wondering if anybody uses non detergent to wash clothes.
i will certainly try the pancake recipe.
no cracks, no redness, and complete feeling!date: 3 feb 1997 14:33:32 from: marilyn subject: coffee & homepathic remedies my understanding is that homopathy treats the person, not the disease.
can one be equally allergic to their ingredients as to dust?
in my experience there is more than one bag balm on the market; the name seems to have become generic, rather than a brand name.
could the pressure from the birth canal have caused  damage to her craniosacral system?
this frees up trapped nerves, blood vessels etc,  throughout the body and allows the organs to work properly.
i've  used it (or amped up my topical drugs) for less honorable occasions, if ya know  what i mean!
jodi has not had much luck since her return  from her chinese herbal treatment in china.
i have long believed that any lubricant that produces a cooling sensation is actually drying the skin (the cool you feel is the water leaving the skin).
date: 17 feb 1997 07:33:27 from: brigit subject:
i went  right back to nursing jodi when the expedition made no difference to her
from: alan subject: denise & evaporation i don't use corticosteroids if i can help it.
desowen lotion my eczema seems to get worse in the spring.
the  only thing jodi has benefited from is chinese herbal treatment.
i am very excited about her development and will look into it for my son.
this sounds like a clear case of lace to me.
i've just completed a course in it, and my skin is looking a hell of  a lot better.
sometimes i think that my eczema is really everyone else's problem nearly as much as it is mine because they have to look at it -- and on your wedding day, it's their tough luck.
and in truth, it was much more effective in stopping the itching than many of the treatments the doctors prescribed.
date: 19 feb 1997 19:13:30 from: shanon subject:
when i shower i actually feel relief.
my pharmacist says that emulsifying wax contains cetostearyl alcohol and sodium lauryl sulphate (and some purified water).date: 1 feb 1997 09:46:11 from: debbie subject: childhood eczema citrus is a common allergen.
i brushed my hand on the sheets in a department store and couldn't believe the silky smooth feel.
they seemed to help a bit
the first time i used it, i got way too much on
and while i'm at it, think i'll revive the  fashion for wearing elegant gloves to a dance!
once spring has sprung, i'm sure the public will have questions and comments.
with all that said, i would rather go back to cyclosporine and its potential side effects, than prednisone with its side-effects and no real relief...
but if the scalp is inflamed or has sores and scabs, i need steroids.
i began these products for a week and then again attempted to wean from  prednisone.
i always wear make-up.
tell me about the homeopath you go to.
i was also advised not to breast feed my baby for a week to see if breast milk was the culprit.
regarding the chiro: did your chiropractor describe isaac's condition to  you in a visit-by-visit basis?
i notice that when i wash jodi's hair  everyday, her e clears up on her scalp.
searching for things  (easy-to-digest foods, supplements, minerals, vitamins, homeopathic remedies...
they're about $10-11 each
then we began an ongoing "fight" with the medical community that we continue to fight.
or here online with the group.
date: 10 feb 1997 13:05:42 from: wendy subject: eczema & wedding dress: need support!
the doctors finally said daniel had eczema when he was a few months old and in the last few months we have been seeing an allergist.
i would like to hear some opinions on the drug/e relationship.
it worked beautifully
the tighter weave makes it feel wonderfully silky.
i now have eczema the worst i have ever been in my life.
that, in addition to going to a homeopath (she put her on a daily remedy to boost her immune system to oveercome these allergens on her own) and weekly visits to a chiropractor have made a big improvement!
when i remember the times that i didn't help my sister because her whining and scratching were driving me crazy.
we found zinc + castor oil seems to help a lot for the arms and legs.
i notice that is when she'll start scratching, more like out of desperation and not because she needs to.
now it doesn't take a rocket scientist to at least  suspect it.
as far as when to use it, it depends on the occasion.
air pollution linked to skin ailments - study air pollution can rob skin of an important vitamin, aggravating a variety of skin ailments common to people in urban areas, according to a study released tuesday.
i would not be at all surprised if either substance provoked strong allergic reactions too.
date: 26 feb 1997 12:32:10 from: kim subject:
even knowing what i know now, though, i might not have done it, then--breastfeeding was terribly painful for me, i was really ready to quit...
when i was a teen, i cleared up and had no problems until about four years ago.
twice this has  happened to me -- and this'll be my second dermatology appointment!
the clear lotion is a mineral and jojoba type oil (with petroleum fraction & something else - sorry i don't have the bottle here) which i am surprised i can tolerate because many people claim mineral oil is no good.
but i didn't notice any great results- orally yes
rash then spread down neck and collar area on wrists and hands.
we were trying aveeno for our daughter's flare ups, as a substitute for cortisone, and trying a vegetable based vaseline-like product for a moisture barrier.
when he was about 10 mos,  he understood the concept of "stop."
julia's face has always been the worst.
debbie (and julia), i haven't really given brian many baby foods yet.
date: 22 feb 1997 13:50:41 from: patsy  subject: faith's delimma faith-
date: 20 feb 1997 12:42:35  from: ken subject:
for more  information, contact your physician."
there is no way i can stand it for a whole month...
a lot of my co-workers cannot use it either and they don't have eczema.
a few unrelated things: there's a web site where you can "search for the pharmaceutical of  interest by first character of name", at  http://www.rxmed.com/prescribe.html.
if you  don't already have a book like it then i think it's worth reading.
previous to the egyption cotton sheets, i had on some occasions changed sheets 3 times (all 100% cotton).
though, if you are lucky, the condition should clear up as he gets  older.
instead of that red, raised skin, he gets welts.
how did your dr. diagnose it, by the way?
ribomunyl;isoprinosine;biostim shelley - zemaphyte is indeed available in canada through the emergency drug release program.
date: 11 feb 1997 14:19:00 from: alex  subject: glycine/glycerine
when we first took  him to the allergist his skin was so bad they couldn't test him there.
felt great all through pregnancy, needed no  medication or had no complications at all.
wendy, i am not sure, when i pressed the dr for a reason he didn't seem to have one.
maybe medication, though less likely) to help repair stomach, intestinal, liver  areas.
emulsifying wax i once asked a pharmacist and he looked it up and decided diprobase and aqueous cream were the same, possibly whipped up to a slightly different consistency.
we eat pretty much all organic foods, and did for a year before conception, along with no drugs or alcohol.
sue - though the viral attack started a month ago, jodi still has a few scattered blister-like rashes broke out on her skin here and there.
now any time i get into bed i enjoy the feel of those sheets.
does anyone  know who manufactures sudocrem?
from watching my babies suffer with the agonies of the infernal itching i have a glimpse of what sufferers undergo.
in the us if you can't get it at a pharmacy, try your local "feed store", look in the yellow pages (phone directory) for an outlet like southern states.
after all, it is your wedding!date: 10 feb 1997 16:10:22 from: heather subject: colloidal oatmeal thanks for the oatmeal tip.
feel like i may need to bring photos to show him instead!
and good luck to all who try this.
they also did a blood test to test  my thyroid.
it upsets me to think that by nursing, i was causing his eczema, but it's probably true.
my skin drinks it quickly and so far has no reaction to it, either immediately or over time.
it does contain a lot of strange sounding chemicals - so beware!
the doctors  finally said daniel had eczema when he was a few months old and in the last few  months we have been seeing an allergist.
i started it to help her sleep better while sick with croup a few weeks ago.
i am researching the possibility of asbestos being the problem at the house i live in now.
all doctors should know this and should only  prescribe creams (or lotions or gels) for allergic people when the greasiness  of ointments can not be tolerated.
date: 12 feb 1997 09:44:23
when i can allow myself to really experience the feelings, i can  tell that the comforting sensation of a hand rubbing my back is something i  never got enough of as an infant/child.
am i the only one that notices her eczema tends to calm down considerably  immediately after the dermatologist appointment has been made?
i never heard of msm, what is that?
after investing a million dollars and hours in vitamins, blood tests and every other possible natural cure, i think they are it.
that's part of the reasons why we're moving the end of the month.
they both seem to do the trick, however.
my heart aches at some of the moms w/little eczema sufferers on this list.
1% hydrocortisone  usp; also contains: menthol, propylene glycol, sd 40 alcohol, and water.
his  mother was after him, for many years, to lose weight.
i shower in the morning and then cover with baby oil and pat skin dry.
for some reason, it seems to make them realize they are poking their noses...
date: 11 feb 1997 21:55:42 from: faith subject: colloids - egyptian cotton sheets try lands end (their coming home catalog).
then let him play in the shade.
kim, have you considered having your son tested for allergies?
ointments (in general) don't contain  things like polypropylene glycol.
i'm sure you can figure out something that will be at least  tolerable.
i don't know if they  helped but like you i had a problem with high dosage.
yes, i know that my scratching is making things worse.
could jodi's eczema be due to bad genes?
it must have been really hard on you.]
they will pay $140 for participation.
as sue described her son isaac, who scratches when he is frustrated, i realized that i too learned this habit in infancy and never got over it.
date: 22 feb 1997 03:15:42 from: debi subject: e baby foods i have been fortunate to work with a nutritionist who has provided me with lists of foods to test.
it's heartbreaking to read all these posts from mothers.
he also prescribed herbs to be brewed for bathing her.
nature's biotics christopher, your supplement list included nature's biotics.
if the distortion is great enough that spectacles will no longer be adequate, the mainstay of treatment is to wear hard contact lenses (they must be hard lenses - i suspect they will want to fit you with a gas permeable hard lens).
whether or not you took the cyclosporine for the eczema, could you let us know whether you think it "did the trick" for your skin, and also whether you had other bad side effects from it.
that's one reason we have this list -- so we can vent our feelings without offending professionals on whom we must rely.
after years in a zen training center and a major diet change,  my sister now has good control over her skin, and she is very articulate about  the emotional hurts that her scratching helped keep at bay.
he then tested positive to potatoes and soy, but his last test came up negative.
anyway don't worry about the having to be different yet.
they  just need instruction.
daniel's head looks really bad.
i don't know what condition my eczema will be in on the day of the wedding, so that has limited my choices of dress styles (i don't trust my back/arm eczema enough to wear a sleeveless dress with a low back, but then co-workers ask my why i would want to wear a dress with short sleeves in hot weather, etc.).
i believe the milk thistle are a boon, as they help  to repair the liver.
also, is anyone allergic to glycine/glycerine?
eliminated all known allergens, and also several that the dermatologist  suggested we stay away from "just in case".
we already suspected an allergy to cow's milk and had been feeding her soy formula.
date: 6 feb 1997 07:02:49 from: karen subject: childhood eczema hi kim, so sorry your son's allergy testing didn't produce more definitive results.
re:  wedding dresses and e., in which she mentions turning a lovely shade of bright  eczematic red when she went dress shopping.
eventually every time i put the cream on my eczema would burn.
by the way, i was told that the homeopathic medicated pellets thyrodium, graphites, sepia & sulphur are supposed to be good for eczema.
i am now looking for a liquid form of the same type which can be mixed in  his food.
this makes them look pretty raw and swollen on top of the normal dry and cracking.
but i'm never given two remedies at the same time.
date: 27 feb 1997 23:51:33 from: karen subject: kim/son infections no scientific research, but my daughter's eczema and other allergies are always lots better after a beach trip.
it is "nutrogena t"  and we found it at the grocers after seeing an ad on television.
my son was diagnosed with this at 4 months old.
his legs are still a mess, but they're getting better.
the following is a list of your good foods: also, i go to acupuncture 1 x per month.
we started eliminating  lots: dairy, wheat, eggs, tomatoes, corn, chocolate, citrus, peanuts.
the first suggested vitamins he will not chew.
old, whether on drugs or not.
she's still way better than before---hasn't gone that far backwards.
what are some well known names?
i've been told that anyone with eczema/psoriasis ("leaky gut") should avoid the nightshades (tomatoes, potatoes, eggplant, peppers of all kind, and paprika) and to avoid foods high in fat (counting whole milk dairy products).
some say bag balm, it contains sulpha and lanolin, some say curel, or eucerine, or cetaphyl.
however, she still worries that her wedding was ruined because her mother-in-law used coloring in the wedding cake batter and the inside of the cake was pink and blue instead of mauve and green like she wanted.
criteria for inclusion in the study: must have eczema for longer than one year, must have family history of related problems, must have 20% of the body involved or 10% of face, feet, or genitalia, must have normal kidney, liver, and blood levels (which they will test), if taking antibiotics must be only taking one type, if on allergy shots must have been taking them for at least 6 months already, must have no heart disease, no diabetes, no vascular or rheumatology problems, no hiv, no cancer, no active infections, not pregnant nor lactating, no central nervous system problems, and never used interferon before.
i resort to this book when i haven't got the time to think about cooking.
nothing else is as satisfying as scratching.
if you think it would be ok, i'll try it.
i  sometimes think that's her way of drawing our attention.
please  note, that the vitamin regimen i listed above needs to have vitamin c added to  it.
so, why not a misalignment too?
still, something is missing and i don't know what.
julia doesn't mind it (doesn't  hurt) until she's on her side because she's freaked out by strangers, doctors,  etc.
i dumped a friend largely because she was so goopy feel-sorry-for-me it made me sick.
it's like  junk food, empty calories, you keep eating and eating and you're never full.
i used to take him out last summer at 9:30 or 10 am and keep him right in it for 5 to 10 minutes.
in a nutshell, you collect dust from your home and send it to john hopkins, they will analyze it and tell you what is in your home.
you are right to remember that you don't know how your skin will be that day.
so, about a year ago, we did a while lot of things, which have definitely  improved isaac's skin from being very itchy, red, and cracking over a large  percentage of his body, to today's cycle of flares and clear-ups on his legs  and arms: stopped all antibiotics.
i've found it near the cortisone creams and calamine lotion in the pharmacy, but it doesn't have any steroids or other drugs in it.
we are trying to distinguish between foods that isaac's skin is sensitive  to, and ones he's actually allergic to.
there's a tremendous lack of eczema information  out there, i guess.
we had a lot of luck with a rotation diet.
then we found an m.d. who said to give him a lot more (like 5 tsps) per day.
it's manufactured by bayer, germany and free of polypropylene glycol.
today i'm grateful that my skin is under control.
like you said though, it is hard to keep track of it all.
even the rest of her skin is becoming "baby soft" everywhere!
i washed his face gently and put some antibiotic cream (neosporin) on it.
this is just  as effective as the steroid.
welcome sue (& isaac)
so he drinks rice milk (on his rice day, which is every other day now), fortified with calcium.
terfenadine may increase the sedative effect of antidepressants, sleeping pills and antipsychotics, whilst antidepressants increase the chance of abnormal heart rhythms.
i tried it on a hunch after having dealt with all the  useless salves and ointments the md had prescribed.
headaches, drowsiness and dizziness are rarer, as are palpitations and fainting.
as i understand it, this isn't technically an "allergy"--that word is saved for reactions that involve his immune system.
the ingredient in desitin is the zinc oxide... might try a more pure form?
it may also be worth noting that the cod liver oil (a & d), as well as the vitamin e are essential.
simply tell them what it is, and if they ask any further, take your business elsewhere.
i will try to answer your questions as best as possible but understand that i am only relaying what i remember from my experiences & from the information given to me from my doctors.
and every bit  helps.
but i still use the oils, i just don't get dressed right away (aren't you glad you're not in my house in the morning).
there are just all these theories.
but i think a lot of drs feel this way.
these do not then get red and angry--they just disappear.
date: 11 feb 1997 19:05:49
i do  agree with the idea of changing your diet.
said she was really, really  tight in the shoulder blade area, also has said she is making incredible  progress--except for one session where he said she went downhill a bit.
you feel light touch only.
i've had a look at http://www.fda.gov and found nothing on it, but that may  be because i didn't know where to look and the search engine didn't work.
it took about a month to show an improvement, but it really did seem to make a difference.
hope things get better for you (and your son).
he prescribed desowen lotion .05%.
i can't vouch for the relevance or accuracy of what  follows, knowing nothing about dermatitis herpetiformis myself, but i'm hoping  someone on the list will be able to comment on how this might relate (or not
if you can  clear up the itching problem, 90% of the condition is solved.
healing psoriasis: the natural  alternative i've read it!
it is marketed under other names also and contains: 1.0% hydrocortizone, menthol, propylene glycol, and sd 40 alcohol.
i can't use nivea or eucerin
people with eczema have to learn over time how eczema skin looks!
our pediatrician (who doesn't believe in this stuff, but had looked it up for another patient)
being part of the care-taking doesn't seem to appeal to her anymore.
has anyone had any experience with natural ways of increasing adrenal  support (for those of us who have ruined our adrenal systems with too much  prednisone)?
their prices are probably not what  you'd find at the local wal-mart, but they're not outrageous, either.
pick a time when  there are no other distractions and he can give you his full attention.
after 40 years, the habit is so ingrained it is automatic.
someone recommended flax seed oil
scratching!!!!!!----so that's my cue-----
i have years of wearing weird-shaped contact lenses and the prospect of a possible cornea transplant to look forward to.
i take baths every day.
has anyone else ever seen this change?
in the last few weeks, his skin has been  blotchy, but the blotches are not usually raised--they're splashes of color.
we are trying to help him as best we can right now, but i also believe in prayer.
i spoke to my mom about it
date: 21 feb 1997 10:05:54 from: sue subject:
it's great stuff though, at least from my observations.
but seriously, i know what he is going through.
i'm not sure what he'll find for me if i need a cortisone cream in the future  (which unfortunately i'm sure i will)
ribomunyl sorry to disappoint you, but i think there is literally nothing to translate there.
i have recently tried smiling and saying "eczema" when i get  "that look" -- and to my surprise, i have met so many other people  who have it, who have family members who have it -- i had no idea it was so
my mother  always has a new theory about why it flares up, and other people ask why it  hasn't gone away, etc.
it's a pain to change his diapers,  though--have to take his shoes off each time.
my experience has been that anything "strong" was too strong.
damage had been done.
the "evaporation" therapy that was mentioned by someone in the group has been something that i used in the past, though i never knew anyone else used it.
date: 13 feb 1997 15:30:57 from: karen subject: glycerin i have always suspected that glycerin may give the illusion of lubricating  the skin while it is in fact drying it out.
maybe i will treat myself.
it seems like the eczema is always worse under my jog bra.
and i absolutely love this list
i know that they love me and want to see me well, but i don't want them to bring it up.
there are so many things you can try.
could jodi's eczema be due to  bad genes?
did i tell you that i  also broke down when julia was sick with croup 2 weeks ago, and took her to a  derm.
it looked alot nicer and that was before we learned of his food allergies.
my friend rubbed my back  yesterday and that was wonderful.
apparently, the causal  relationship between the two (spine & stomach) can go either way: stomach  damage can short circuit the spine or a misalignment can mess up the stomach.
first remedy wasn't the one
the following week lets talk about ointments,  creams, external aids.
i don't know if i will do it because i'm nervous about giving myself injections, but i'll think about it.
that is the only side effect that i have heard of, i believe it is generally quite safe.
i think that, in general, with most chronic problems, modern western medicine seems to do just this.
i am already on an extensive vitamin/mineral program, but wondered if  anyone had strong feelings about or experience with the glandulars.
we've also been doing the chiropractor for 3  weeks now (twice a week) with great success.
i have renewed energy, do not scratch at night and am  not experiencing any itching that i cannot easily resist.
date: 4 feb 1997 00:35:20
(anticholinergic drigs are used to affect muscle movements and are used to treat urinary incontinence and ibs.)
ultimately, he has managed to lose much of the weight (and she's quite proud of him for it!), but it had nothing to do with her harassment and everything to do with finding a way to do it that he could live with.
i think the leaky guy syndrome is one example of a cause--if substances are leaking into the wrong body cavities and causing problems, then the body will manifest this problem with eczema, maybe.
julia's  on bufo (toad poison), a minor one, not many people have heard of it.
as we all know everyone is different; unfortunately no one thing will help us all.
it's basically ground up pig pancreases, or  something gross like that.
the picture of jodi on the floor, scratching rather than yelling for help,  is a replica of what isaac used to do.
so now i want to push onto maybe a vegie oil.
my allergy book ("allergies made simple" by phylis austin, agatha thrash, md, calvin thrash, md). lists even things like cough syrup, aspirin, envelopes, stickers, gum, candy, salt, paper cups, vinegar..and some toothpastes.
criteria for inclusion in the study: must have eczema for longer than one  year, must have family history of related problems, must have 20% of the body  involved or 10% of face, feet, or genitalia, must have normal kidney, liver,  and blood levels (which they will test), if taking antibiotics must be only  taking one type, if on allergy shots must have been taking them for at least 6  months already, must have no heart disease, no diabetes, no vascular or  rheumatology problems, no hiv, no cancer, no active infections, not pregnant  nor lactating, no central nervous system problems, and never used interferon  before.
they said they were on spruce st.
their prices are probably not what you'd find at the local wal-mart, but they're not outrageous, either.
now, supposedly, there is a connection with certain misalignments of the spine (don't remember if i've mentioned this before).
i really do believe the drugs just suppress the immune system and i want her immune system to find its on way to heal itself, so i don't want to overuse them.
if i don't bathe everyday my skin feels horrible.
also, can they be sprayed on clothes as well?
thanks for making me feel like i'm not alone.
i'm trying to use different lotions, creams, cortisones, in the morning and night.
but i suppose all e sufferers share  something in common.
i have been taking my son's lunch to daycare for over a year (he is 2.5) and since he never has eaten what other kids do he doesn't seem to care.
perhaps the next allergy testing session will produce some answers.
they carry many egyptian cotton things, and i think sheets are on that list.
i  wish it to everyone on the list!
all were bought at a chemist or pharmacy.
they come in dark colors and prints that hide stains from scratching and weeping.
again, it's only available by prescription through the emergency drug release program.
sue also mentioned something that she had done with isaac (and i note many  of the other parents on here are doing), where she breaks him away from  scratching, but in a loving, helpful way.
i like  the suggestion someone made of getting a backrub to take one's mind away from  the scratching!
however, i use them occasionally now that she goes a week at a time with no new breakouts, etc.
childhood eczema karenledbetter
jodi has had no blows to her head or trauma to her spine; couldn't think of anything that could cause any neurotoxin or any malnutrition.
also, lycopodium has been successful for me.
the timing was interesting because we had talked to an old-time pharmacist who swore by tar shampoo for cradle cap for his children (now grown) but said he couldn't remember the last time he had some in the store.
from: donna subject: colloidal oatmeal a colloidal 'solution' is not a solution in the true sense, as the  particles are in fact suspended in the liquid, and not dissolved -- but the  particles are so tiny that it seems to dissolve.
be careful that he does not scratch any particular places on his body  regularly though.
kids are smart--they'll find all kinds of ways to substitute for what they  know they need, but aren't getting.
i can go on and on and on...
around that time, i ran into a product that involved a conbination of multivitamin, cheleated minerals, a variety of antioxidants and proanthocyanidins (in the class of bioflavanols.
it was difficult to stop so suddenly, although i was down to feeding him only 2 or 3 times a day since i work full-time.
thank goodness for pyrithione zinc.
many plants, trees, dust and  molds had catastrophic reactions.
but i had fun trying it out.
but i tend not to like the sun much anyway, as i burn so easily.
if it can't be found, then i'll settle for controlling  measures, but i want to at least try for prevention first...
from: patsy subject: eczema  digest let me reiterate a cure i found for my daughter's cradle cap: head &  shoulders shampoo.
for some reason, it seems to make  them realize they are poking their noses...
my preference is only because the cream is a little less "messier".
oddly enough he has no problem with milk and that is usually a big one.
our first naturopath recommended that we give isaac pancreatic enzymes.
i guess it's a good thing he was used to having a bottle.
he's the author that speaks about leaky gut... and says along with it there seems to be a little trouble with elimination (recommends enemas or high colonics on a fairly regular basis) and talks about specific spinal misalignments (different ones for psoriasis vs. eczema) and specific recommendations for diet and supplements and topical agents.
we also just purchased an ionizer for our house
before this though we hadn't used cortisone or benadryl since aug. (tried 2 homeopathic remedies instead, one she's still on).
i needed a good laugh!
date: 11 feb 1997 14:25:37 from: royce subject: polypropylene glycol i also thought that polypropylene glycol was not used in ointments but my dr. was going through all his little sample boxes and found that every one of them contained that ingredient.
next i am trying debbie's suggestion of a chiropractor.
though now we have switched to tushies and seventh generation aloe vera wipes.
i still cannot tell if the pruritus comes  first or the rash comes first.
date: 19 feb 1997 18:06:24 from: rita subject: child eczema
fingers crossed, but i'm "in remission" at the moment.
so, you've  already been down the path that we might need to walk.
she had a disastrous itching fit in the car yesterday.
it is usually found with the babycare products as it is used for napkin/nappy/diaper rash.
is it done thru derm or intern?
then, i'll have juliet puts the toy to the other end
can't use the antihistamines for 2 days before or the 2 days during, no baths or showers during...
i'm  most inclined to think that it's a case where everything is working together  towards the same end cure.
this is what the npf warning s says: "do you take either terfenadine, an allergy medicine sold as seldane, or ketoconazole, which is used to treat skin infections?
haven't changed the sheets all week...
as i understand it, this isn't  technically an "allergy"--that word is saved for reactions that  involve his immune system.
i've been avoiding visiting anyone with a dog for 3 weeks now and these are the  3 weeks she's been clear.
the derm told me to see how he is after one week off breastmilk, and if it's not better, he would need to have allergy tests done.
but as we all know everyone is different.
my son's face is healed up but with some scars, the dr. says it may go away if given enough time, i hope this is true and doesn't take too long.
it's  manufactured by bayer, germany and free of polypropylene glycol.
(if required for fritters use only 8 fl oz water) fry on both sides in very lightly oiled pan and serve while hot with lemon juice and fruit sugar or syrup.
when i see them, i put tea tree oil ointment over them to avoid secondary infection.
there is a company called "national allergy supply, inc." 1-800-522-1448 that markets a test that you can order for $25.
it's so frustrating trying to find a cause and treatment for this horrible condition.
anybody got any ideas on how i can teach my husband to do that???
the only soap she could use was glycerin, clear, unscented.
now she's having one or two (better) bowel movements a day instead of one every two days.
they  usually dry up and go away in 2-3 days.
and i hope that out of all the people out there the ones on this list will understand.
the guy  has a great reputation, and isaac's skin has definitely improved while in his  care, but we've also done all these other things at the same time.
my dermatologist doesn't think that my e. is allergy-related, but i do know that textile manufacturers treat fabrics with a number of chemicals, including formaldehyde, which probably don't do much for us e. sufferers!
she stayed clear most of the time, and except for one incident of an asthma-like reaction after exposure to dust (from a herd of goats), she has had few allergic reactions.
disease in disguise" by carolee bateson-koch dc nd published by alive books p.o. box 80055 burnaby bc v5h 3x1.
date: 27 feb 1997 10:02:30 from: jessica subject: herpes infection (ann) ann, did that herpes infection leave any scars on you?
date: 11 feb 1997  13:32:33 from: shelley subject: eczema & wedding dress: need support!
i was wondering if you had been prescribed it for the eczema, as one theory is that we have an overactive immune system.
it's a simple, off the  shoulder short sleeve dress and i am praying that my skin is clear for the big  day.
date: 11 feb 1997 14:19:00 from: alex subject: glycine/glycerine if you are allergic to *glycine*, there's not anything you can do about it, since it is one of the amino acids that your body uses to make proteins.
so he drinks rice milk (on his rice day, which is every  other day now), fortified with calcium.
i tried 2 manual once, couldn't stand them.
it was my husband and i who pursued seeing an allergist and seeing if anything was actually causing it or at least making it worse than it really had to be.
if you are allergic to *glycine*, there's not anything you can do about it,  since it is one of the amino acids that your body uses to make proteins.
bread is out; cheese is out; yoghurt is out; eggies are out-- so here's my question: does anyone have a quick&simple recipe for corn-based pancakes (no eggs, no milk, no wheat)?
i have found this to be very helpful in my case.
i know doctors can sometimes be pretty blithe about their recommendations, not thinking through the whole picture and just concentrating on fixing the portion of the problem you've presented them with...
it is  some psychological thing, i believe.
pure aloe vera with the vegelatum ointment is working well on her legs.
signs they looked for were: eczema (alraedy obvious); ear cracks (where his ear lobe meets his head--a pretty constant crack there); creased eyelids (instead of just one fold in his eyelid, there were always a couple, both top and bottom);
journal de toxicologie clinique et experimentale 10 3 200-201 1990 jt4050390025
nothing like she was.
thompson pharmaceuticals. 1.0%  hydrocortizone, benzyl alcohol, propylene glycol, purified water, sd alcohol  40-2 (60% v/v).
on the first visit he said she was extremely tight in the area of the spine that corresponds with stomach and liver.
she was breast fed till 7 months.
the two jodi likes the most are light green and dark green.
it has that healthy barnyard smell.
everybody i know who's gotten married has worried about their wedding being ruined by something.
they also carry natural (unbleached, undyed) cotton sheets & blankets, even a cotton-stuffed pillow (no down).
emulsifying wax if emulsifying wax contains "cetostearyl alcohol and sodium lauryl sulphate (and some purified water)", then this makes aqueous cream sound almost *exactly* like diprobase!
what have your doctors attributed all the allergies to?
i'm in the middle of a bad outbreak, my antihistamines have mysteriously stopped working (second type that this has happened with), and i need a good night's sleep.
daniel's skin was better during the summer.
i would be afraid that a baby might chew off the polish.
of course i monitored my diet carefully and watched katie for any reaction.
date: 11 feb 1997 12:40:05 from: michael subject: base for steroid cream
when i got eczema on my scalp it was weeping so the dermatologist gave me some prescription medication that was a steroid concoction suspended in alcohol.
since i started emphasizing the antibacterials, i am less itchy.
truth be known i would  rather it is the itch, my son is now at the point he can say "i itch"
from many nights trying to lull bonnie into a state of deep relaxation, and teaching her to use positive imagery to overcome her impulse to scratch, i have a real sense of the helplessness and fear parents of children with eczema undergo.
and whether you put the emphasis on the word you  or that also varies the spin.
date: 18 feb 1997 23:53:12 from: christopher subject:
i've been there... believe me!
at the time, i would have done whatever the dr said.
date: 5 feb 1997 10:20:49 from: ann subject: gamma interferon all, what do you know about the ucsf gamma interferon study?
as an adult, i have to find new reasons to live each day.
also, i've had some luck soaking in a tub with dead sea salts and some type of oil or aveno oatmeal product (i know aveno doesn't agree with everyone but the gentle bath/shower cleanser, which i use everyday in place of regular soap & the oatmeal work for me.)
it has now been replaced with the topic of this list!!date: 28 feb 1997 23:28:36 from: kathleen subject: bathing kids i'm the parent of a 22 year old young woman with severe food allergies and eczema.
the rest of his body is totally free of eczema now (big hooray with lac-hydrin 5), but his scalp is a mess of dandruff.
i  stay on here because all the info is so interesting and because i know sooner  or later, i'll have a flare-up again, which will be caused by stress.
well, what i think would help me to stop is if you  could... " spell out the details about specifics that he could do (without  saying anything about his actions in the past not being helpful) and then ask  him "what do you think?
she is avoiding soy, dairy, sweets including fruits and juices, she drinks rice milk, has a rice/oat/barley cereal mix in the am.
i  think) on a base that was pressed onto his back.
we used to get concerned these food "sensitivities," but we've gotten so used to them that we don't get so concerned about them now.
two or three days a month i spend raging around my house, my mind going 100 miles an hour, going over and over and over my notes, articles, the labels of foods and vitamins, just trying to find the thing i missed that will make the whole picture make sense.
i finally just let him sleep without socks on and kept his nails cut as short as i possibly could.
but it doesn't do any  good.
it's easy to put so much energy into how it looks, comparing it to how other people's skin looks, without any idea of what is the "normal" way for their skin to look.
has anyone heard of this or tried it?
we were probably doing it at the same time!
if i am not in the room my 3 and 1/2 year  old can be heard yelling----stop
if you wish to learn more, you should find a discussion of keratoconus in most standard ophthalmic texts - it is not a rare disease.
once we washed his face (gently) a couple times throughout the day, he looked much better -- just several scratches on his cheek.
the blood test in  my opinion means nothing, even my gi never performed these tests on mac.
and more than you would  think do know, and react quite sympathetically.
the aveeno oatmeal bath caused full body contact dermatitis.
i spoke to his doctor's office this morning, and they said to apply neosporin 3 times today, and if it's not much better by tomorrow, bring him in.
a  thorough cleansing should help the itching quite a bit.
the side effects can be nasty, but are rare and are more likely when it is combined with other drugs.
fever up  to 104 about every two weeks for three months, they i didn't sleep because of  worry now i don't sleep because of the itch factor.
maybe i am getting some of that well needed energy back now.
or maybe i will, and do a comparison test.
i'd better get my mind off her eczema.
he's always been  sensitive, emotionally, but this physical sensitivity is striking.
it is so amazing how many people have  the same problems as our household.
it almost looked like he had been burned.
so whatever the reason, i'm thrilled!
adult dosage costs about 68 pounds sterling for a week's prescription.
but i have seasonal allergies that also go crazy then too.
(just like with  homeopathy.)
right now, this is what i'm doing for jodi: would anyone please advise on handling sibling jealousy?
i also may note that the lecithin  may be causing more harm than good (i am experimenting with it).
they carry many egyptian cotton  things, and i think sheets are on that list.
from: ann  subject: wedding day eczema
i am  researching the possibility of asbestos being the problem at the house i live  in now.
interestingly it's not the caffeine that nullifies the remedy, it's coffee.
i'm not doing a green leafy thing so i don't know anything about it.
i think that, in general, with most chronic problems, modern  western medicine seems to do just this.
the no-grain day included other nice carbos, but it was tough on quinoa and amaranth day--we did/do a lot of baking with those grains, and it's tricky...
the other day in the supermarket i found a carton of 'tidman's sea salt for bathing'.
it used to be a popular ingredient  of many skin-care products, but its popularity has significantly gone downhill  since it was found to irritate so many.
for dave, however, understand that this is a very treatable eye condition.
i tried primrose oil along time ago and don't  remember that it helped much but since your post, i think i will try it again.
daniel just sits on the floor, pulls his pant legs up as far as he can, pulls his socks off and scratches til he is almost bleeding.
and scratching is a short-term stimulation, not the deeply fulfilling  comfort of tenderness, so scratching just leads to more scratching.
sometimes this condition makes me feel so alone in the world and it is nice to  know that there are others that can empathize.
i don't think it's good to take *any* drug all the time, if you can avoid it.
the timing was  interesting because we had talked to an old-time pharmacist who swore by tar  shampoo for cradle cap for his children (now grown) but said he couldn't  remember the last time he had some in the store.
it was mentioned on the list that high doses could cause problems with brain function, but i think i'm too old for that to apply!date: 26 feb 1997 12:22:03 from: kim subject: more on the bath issue both our ped and derm said once a week for a bath.
even if you don't eat it, your body will make it from something else.
although i'm not going to continue this much longer.
the following ingredients i copied directly from the labels.
are there perhaps two different things with the same name?date: 3 feb 1997 12:35:41 from: shelley subject: antibacterial lotion & soap i have been on a hunt for a new moisturizing lotion similar to shepard's, but cheaper.
then a viral attack caused huge blisters over her lips  and eczematic right cheek.
what are dhea levels?
date: 15 feb 1997  16:43:12 from: gretchen subject: glycerine, etc.
and i'm so sorry you feel that awful  self-consciousness...
we have a person come to our home three days a week.
i can't afford to use it all the time, though.
i personally suffered very much with my skin problems as a child (my brother had it too but not as bad).
i use the deep cleansing shampoo first, then either of the others.
eczema is just a part of who you are, and you are certainly more than eczema (one would assume your beloved didn't make his decision to propose based on how much you itch!).
date: 20 feb 1997 10:32:06 from: kim subject: a newcomer sue, i have been through about the same thing except have not tried as many treatments.
if potency1 is lower than potency2  then time1 is greater than time2.
i also remember my mum using olive oil on my scalp eczema when i was younger.
did i tell you that i also broke down when julia was sick with croup 2 weeks ago, and took her to a derm.
the cortisone creams, i believe, everyone has to switch around because you can build up a tolerance to them.
but she's doing much  better since we started the second one (mid dec.).
i don't know if it was as bad as your experience of course.
i use lubriderm as a moisturizer (my doctor's suggestion) and clotriminazole 1% (i got that tip here).
i forgot who  suggested "why are you concerned about that?" , but i think it's  perfectly brilliant.
and now her sister wants the same attention.
a neigbor told us about bag balm, it turns out to have sulpha in it and caused our daughter to break out head to toe in hives... we were very scared and finally went to a pediatrician and were immediately given the full regimen- prednisolone, oral antibiotic and baby benadryl.
simply because, from my  experience, only light cleansing is more irritative than none whatsoever.
but for those like me who can't get to a beach regularly, this could be a substitute.
date: 11 feb 1997 22:10:17 from: kim subject:  miracle "cure"?
we just had our 2-1/2-year-old tested.
my husband has a better understsanding on the inability to stop scratching than i do since he grew up with eczema, but not on his face, it was mostly wrists and arms.
julia's clearing again right now.
i wanted to kill myself for letting all that happen to her.
i do rub brian's back sometimes, but he scratches his head the most, so i try to rub his head (and massage with baby oil) for him whenever i catch him scratching.
date: 28 feb 1997 13:51:00
per day), with no results.
he seems to know what he's talking about, i think he's scared of overwhelming us though with too much information.
i figure that i am allergic to some sort of petroleum  derivitive in the cream.
the first 2 weeks her skin weeped so much i was really worried.
keep up the good work!
if i am not in the room my 3 and 1/2 year old can be heard yelling----stop
it has previously been discussed in this forum that the potential ocular complications of steroids include cataract and glaucoma.
they do not get dirt out of my husband's clothes (construction worker).
the formula he is recommending is the most expensive stuff on the market.
my friend rubbed my back yesterday and that was wonderful.
added benefit: my grocery bills go *way* down.
i am not sure if you can do this with a toddler but vitamin c gives me a lot of relief.
she said the doc was saying it was  something new & effective for psorasis and eczema.
i use evening primrose oil topically on his really bad spots but we aren't seeing any real difference.
date: 14 feb 1997 10:04:36 from:
if i'm really bad, i will take a bath with alpha keri bath oil and mineral oil or canola oil, then use mineral oil as a lotion when i get out, then vaseline over that.
along with this, i treat the condition further with schering's elocon  ointment (0.1%) (a steroid cream; not regularly), and vaseline intensive care  lotion: sensitive dry skin w/ oatmeal.
when i was pregnant, my hormones went crazy (of course!), and so did my eczema.
and i had a similar experience with helping one of my younger sisters who had really bad asthma.
then we'll see the results.
the only thing that i've known to give me equal satisfaction is when i can  ask a friend to gently rub my back, and of course this has to be a very close  friend, and i have to be willing to let myself sink into the feeling in my body  at the time.
also, i just figured out that i'm allergic to polypropylene glycol which is in the majority of medications my doctor prescribed to me for all these years.
we also think that his eczema got triggered by a series of antibiotics that  he was on to fight ear infections that began at about 5 months.
we had tried elimination diets in the past but these were unsuccessful since she is allergic to so many different foods.
i then eliminated all milk products from my diet, as well as anything that seemed to affect katie.
it's not weeping; it just looks like patchy, dry red spots.
i think that the same thing happened to isaac--i was drinking lots of milk, and eating lots of peanut butter, when i was breastfeeding him, and i was making him sick.
i was wondering if anyone on the list is familiar with this?
my husband grew up with fairly bad eczema and is still itchy...
you don't have to put up with people's crap.
the condition of her spine always coincides with the state of her eczema.
i think i ended up paying for the use of all that medication i took as a child; i am now allergic to all oral antibiotics (can't take any without getting violently ill and breaking out in hives).
for christopher, and others who may want to pursue the nature's biotics link: the web site is http://www.getbuzy.com/nbiotics/nbiotics.htm.date: 24 feb 1997 12:03:54 from: rita subject: eczema &/or asthma vaccine; chinese herbal treatment since patsy brought up the subject of an eczema/asthma vaccine, i thought i bring up the ribomunyl vaccine again.
and i *go* to the homeopath.
date: 3 feb 1997 13:12:47 from: royce subject: coffee & homepathic remedies i know that you're not supposed to drink coffee when taking homeopathic remedies.
i have two young boys, so i am constanly washing my hands throughout the day.
last week during a nighttime scratching frenzy (must have  taken the socks off my hands!)
anyway don't worry about the having to be  different yet.
i read their advertising on the internet and it sounds like a miracle; but then again, it is their own advertising.
eucerin has lanolin, doesn't it?
she also tends to scratch more when she is not content i.e. like when she is sleepy but doesn't want to sleep; or if she can't get to where she wants to go.
he placed him on a special diet along with the anti histamine (periactin).
wendy  subject: what's next
this makes it much harder for him to get  at his legs, and definitely helps him not scratch.
when i see  them, i put tea tree oil ointment over them to avoid secondary infection.
date: 21 feb 1997 20:11:20
it's a glutinous rice cake that you can bake in the oven; makes a hearty, sticky bun with a crust.
i wonder why they feel it is any of their business...
date: 11 feb 1997 10:14:43 from: ann  subject: polypropylene glycol royce, don't apologize for being angry at a doctor!
didn't  seem to know why she was worse again on mon.
so, i think your doctor is right about this one.
in fact, i tried the suggestions in it first.
sometimes when he is scratching alot i lay him across my lap and rub his back and down his legs.
since the 2nd visit she's been eating better again.
i don't think my "drugs for every occasion" book exactly says terfenadine is safe.
i'm thinking about getting someone to do a comprehensive air testing in our new home.
also, i have just been using vaseline rather than eucerin or aquaphor and i think things are a little better
we saw two different  ones, and stopped after he became very scared of the second one (her  adjustments hurt him).
things were going well, the eczema on my legs had stopped oozing, the rest of my body was not noticeable, no itching to speak of.
and the omission of oils from these lotions may help explain their  effectiveness in my case.
imagine blisters over eczematic skin.
and frankly, now that i think about it... there are some other things he has done in the past that have taken my mind off the scratching, too...  :) :)
it is just as soothing as aveeno and a lot less  expensive.
you have to come to the office to be checked 6 times (baseline test, then week  1, week 4, week 8, week 12, and week 16 as follow-up).
when he scratches now, instead of that red and abraded skin, he gets big patches of welts--dozens of small, white bumps, amost contiguous to each other.
this product is not seen as much as the standard "all" but i am sure if you ask your store manager to order it he/she would, as it sells easily.
have you looked into the dust mite issue?date: 21 feb 1997 13:59:40 from: rita subject: child eczema
the more you care  about it, the more others will care about it.
i had very few reactions to foods, just swordfish.
i would really appreciate it if you or anyone else who may know of of a cortisone that doesn't contain polypropylene glycol could let me know the name(s).
she was a  beautiful bride and she had a beautiful wedding.
so i have to  get over my own stuff and dress him lightly.
they love it 'cos the veggies are slightly sweet.
i took her to our family doctor who diagnosed her with eczema and told us to apply lubriderm lotion and benedryl for the itchiness.
but i often feel we will find one day that eczema is just the skin's way of reacting to a number of things the body doesn't like and has no consistent cause.
date: 18 feb 1997 19:37:33 from: shanon subject: a newcomer -reply
thanks for your point of view re: touching, physical contact.
date: 20 feb 1997 13:03:12 from: tina subject:
so, it turns out that diprobase, cost gbp 12.50 for 500g contains exactly the same ingredients (possibly in different proportions, admittedly) as aqueous cream, cost gbp 2.50 for 500g.
tell them to stop it, that they don't have a clue.
my skin also tolerates glycerin much better than it does mineral oil.
many, many foods make his face red and blotchy as he eats (he's not too neat).
as an adult, i have to find new reasons to  live each day.
he is crancy, flaring up, generally unhappy.
the trick, however (which my  parents did not do with her) was to stay loving and close and be willing to put  up with the tirades that would come with forcing him to stop... when i think of  all the nights that that little girl lay in her bed, with socks pinned over her  hands, moaning and crying, i cry.
p.s. vitamins help me a lot-- c and e date: 19 feb 1997 19:26:31 from: patsy subject: good condition i've hesitated to say anything for fear it would put a jinx on this  improvement, but i chance it to say my skin is in the best condition it's been  in since i first encountered eczema.
in their opinion, kids retain these symptoms for their  whole lives because doctors don't change anything that causes the  problems--they just deal with the manifestations--quiet the skin with steroids,  open the bronchial tubes with inhalants, etc.
also, i have had a dr tell me how to tell if someone has eczema.
date: 3 feb 1997 11:49:40 from: brigit subject: ultravate please, can anyone help me solve a riddle from the archives: it's about something called ultravate.
true there was a history  of atopy.
she just had chronic breakouts--every single day,  worsenig as time went on.
also, with wedding dress-shopping in particular, there may be emotional  baggage aggravating the e. (been there!).
he said his wife and children were  itchy from head to toe and they are totally clear now.
i also just started l-lysine, and would be interested to hear of any side-effects anyone may have noticed.
he seems much better since i quit nursing (until his episode the other night).
and it is still considered alternative by alot of conventional med...
i've also felt painfully self-conscious in the bridal salons i've been in, worried that the sales assistant was looking at the spots on my arms.
but she's doing much better since we started the second one (mid dec.).
we prefer this to scratching, but we occasionally try to break this one up, too, just to make sure he isn't "going away" to deal with his problem by himself.
well, the benefit from the chinese herbal treatment seems to give way to a  series of countered epidsodes .
i would put money on a bet that in the  next twenty years, they will find that antibiotics and steroids contribute to  the progression from eczema to athsma...
no itching in 8 days.
i spent the first year of my life as a very sick kid, and
i tore part of a mole off.
date: 21  feb 1997 13:38:40
the leaves i puree and mix with her rice and meat.
childhood eczema (to debbie, esp.)
they will pay $140 for  participation.
also, we sometimes play a game where i hug him if i'm still itchy after putting lotion on; i hug him as many times as i feel itchy.
they do not get the children's daily grime out, either.
she's doing great: clearing completely on some days.
if you hate it cooked, try it soaked briefly in soy milk or hot  water, and spiked with dried fruits and nuts, i.e., make your own muesli.
i've had a look at http://www.fda.gov and found nothing on it, but that may be because i didn't know where to look and the search engine didn't work.
i understand the  problem occurs in combination with certain antibiotics - including erythromycin  - interesting since a lot of us have probably had the case of antibiotics and  triludan!
i would really appreciate it if you or anyone else who may know of of a  cortisone that doesn't contain polypropylene glycol could let me know the  name(s).
they are amazed at what he looks like now--no extra eyelid folds,  no ear cracks, a clear face, etc.
sugar, molasses or honey to taste
(however, i now believe that these are as much a curse as a blessing.)
e. i  also stopped drinking milk myself when i resumed breast feeding.
also do you know if gamma interferon is safer than steroids?date: 5 feb 1997 13:21:38 from: kim subject:
it is the best i've found and while it hasn't completely cleared my eczema, i think it is going to.
when i began to really not even care about it, i began dating  this absolutely gorgeous girl (and its flare-ups decreased).
then last month he fell off even that curve, and our doctors were concerned that we have more than eczema to worry about.
my derm -- having tried everything else (in orthodox medicine) -- wants to put me on immuran, which is another immunosuppressant, but i am very wary.
the stress is high enough without eczema!
my anti-eczema vitamin regimen (this will  not work for everyone!)
in addition to the germ killing affect of the sun and the affect the ocean water's contents must have on the skin, i theorize that the skin is purged by the profuse perspiration that occurs when we go in the sun.
the dr. still says that even though the allergies make the e worse, he  will still always have some problem with it since my husband has e and is  allergic to dogs and cats.
yesterday i went and had some food  allergy testing done and once again nothing.
we've taken julia to 3 chiropractor appts.
and you have been dealing with them as a  teen.
a little allergic to citrus, beef, chicken, wheat and a few other things.
i use curel unscented almost exclusively because it's glycerin-based,  with no mineral oil.
but my daughter doesn't
but hey, i wish him luck, and i know exactly what  he is going through.
my herb doctor said that seafood can easily cause flare-up.
the exceptions are quinoa and amaranth (buckwheat, though unrelated, has some similar chemical properties, apparently).
has anyone used it and would they want to comment on the relation to eczema especially for a toddler?date: 11 feb 1997 22:10:34 from:
julia just had her birthday party this weekend and was clear for it!!!
i do manage to keep it under control (it's always worse during winter and during certain times of the month), but i *can't stand* the looks of consternation on my relatives' faces when they see it.
never used antihistamine either, only used steroid for a short period.
sometimes i think that my eczema is really everyone else's problem nearly  as much as it is mine because they have to look at it -- and on your wedding  day, it's their tough luck.
this wasn't a big shock to me since she was showing other signs of stomach  distress at home: squirming all over when nursing again, etc... hmmmm.
a little  allergic to citrus, beef, chicken, wheat and a few other things.
it's like the newton law of physics that says "every action has an equal and opposite reaction."
so the body just keeps  manifesting the underlying problems--first through eczema, then through athsma,  etc.
the allergist says daniel will most likely outgrow the food allergies all but eggs and peanuts, but by the time he is 4 or 5 will become allergic to airborne allergins.
but i think it's worth it.
the name on the bottle says  therapeutic atrac-tain with 5% urea.
his face and hands are still red and swollen and he gets blotches  on the rest of his body that come and go daily.
date: 19 feb 1997 12:31:46 from: shelley subject: a newcomer sue: you are a wonderful mother to be doing so much to help your son!
anyway, i just wanted to know if anyone can empathize with what i'm feeling.
if you're not doing homeopathy, don't worry about it.
baby is baby, the only way you can help is try (very hard) to divert his/her attention from scratching during the day and wear one-piece "body suit" and use looong gloves (we use adult socks ) at night.
the pharmacist suggested switching  to a hydrocorozone mix with a cetaphil base.
then if that doesn't work i will look for the nutregena t. about new clothes.
date: 13 feb 1997 13:40:34 from: shelley subject: gamma interferon research study i finally got hold of one of the doctors involved in the gamma interferon study at ucsf.
i am miserable in my own skin with it head to toe.
anyway, it is true what you said that you can never tell how bad it is going to be.
the only thing that i've known to give me equal satisfaction is when i can ask a friend to gently rub my back, and of course this has to be a very close friend, and i have to be willing to let myself sink into the feeling in my body at the time.
i haven't noticed any food allergies, but i am keeping a food diary, which i just started recently.
it helps to know there are other moms out there going through the same struggle.
i used to  take at least one oatmeal bath a day and it was the only time i felt  comfortable in my skin.
someone at work yesterday said that my face was not swollen like normal.
(while she was also starting to flare again too)...
date: 18 feb 1997 10:43:00 from: debbie subject: to: debbie and julia
this year he has been sick enough to see the dr only once since july, so things do seem to get better has they get older.
but there's a big difference between  knowing and being able to do something about it, sometimes... and feeling like  i have to hide my scratching or get lectured only makes things worse...
shanon, i've never tried alpha keri bath oil.
i've also been giving her colloidal trace minerals.
the aveeno oatmeal bath caused full  body contact dermatitis.
after just spending 3 months with an unsuccessful one, though, i wasn't feeling as confident as she was.
though it is not one of the most pleasant things in the world, it is not as  bad for the skin in my opinion as just plain scratching.
we've been out of that for a few weeks, and i have noticed that since it being neglected, the eczema has worsened just a bit.
fortunately i found a dress that i loved on the first visit.
date: 13 feb 1997 09:32:54
the summers that i went swimming very regularly were the ones that i had the least problems, if i could tolerate the clorine.
the whole veggie is of the same shade of green.
she has had so many injections of cortisteroids that drs now tell her she has probably done considerable damage to some vital systems.
eventually i had to think of a million ways to cook lamb, carrots, rice, and bananas.
i had been  thinking of trying these, and wondered if anyone has already used them and with  what results?
we started feeding him corn this  week, and his back and stomach are broke out again with e. wonder if he's  allergic to it?
but hey, i wish him luck, and i know exactly what he is going through.
for example, when isaac's skin was terrible, by  age 8 or 9 months, our doctors assured us that he was "atopic," (we  both had allergies as kids; my husband still has them), and that it was very  likely that he'd a) be in the 40% of babies who kept their eczema for their  whole lives; and b) develop athsma when he got older.
since she was no where near raw/bleeding/oozing this time she's practically clear after only 2 days of no real itching.
sure your skin could be broken out, but it could be  really good because you'll be so happy, right?
in other  words potency1 * time1 = potency2 * time2.
it always heals me up and calms down the e.
who again diagnosed hannah with atopic dermitis.
i just went to the dermatologist last night and he gave me a sample of temovate .05%
i'm back to eczema on my legs  only.
jeez, this is such an emotional topic!
my mother always told me how heartbreaking it was for her that i had eczema  and not to itch it!...
i'll see if i still have the files.
so jodi will have to go fetch it again.
hang in there, my mom did and it paid off for us for a long time
what have your doctors  attributed all the allergies to?
but since she hates lying on  her belly or being in the crawling position, there are times she can't find  anything to support herself to move around.
getting in was tough because the salt water would burn but my mother would make me get in knowing the results would be good.
i would suggest that you find a good allergist, and experiment with many of the therapies that have been mentioned in this group.
yet, the antibacterial stuff works really well, as long as i don't forget the nivea skin conditioning oil.
we have been struggling  with his weight for so long--he limps along on his little 1st percentile growth  curve.
do keep us posted, and i wish you luck with the necessary treatments.
true there was a history of atopy.
when allergy testing showed a mild reaction to potatoes, we took her off of that favourite food and her skin cleared up considerably.
after just  spending 3 months with an unsuccessful one, though, i wasn't feeling as  confident as she was.
they seem to make no real difference in the sense that  if she's itchy she still wakes up to scratch regardless of being drugged around  the clock (which i did for a week).
what's the next step in keeping it manageable?date: 3 feb 1997 21:55:46 from: cheri subject: antibacterial lotion & soap me too, shelley.
the reason it's still used is that it's absolutely necessary to produce a certain type of emulsion; it's not just something that's added, it's something you need when you want to produce a so-called "vanishing cream".
she seemed to undergo a transformation... clear, beautiful skin, and she became a truly joyful child.
about baby scratching, we had a hard time on this one.
actually what i've used instead with similar results is: take a piece of cheesecloth, put oatmeal (i used organic when i could) in it and tie it up tight.
things have stabilized, though my wife is still very interested in getting input from other homeopathic docs or people, and herbalists.
nothing else is as  satisfying as scratching.
one thing i found out is my wife and my eczema son both feel a lot warmer than me.
just do the best you can do and keep talking about your fears with your loved ones.
the stuff also comes in a small one inch square can if you want to sample.
date: 17 feb 1997 18:31:52
that's one reason we  have this list -- so we can vent our feelings without offending professionals  on whom we must rely.
and i  absolutely love this list
btw: i agree that if you tell people you have eczema, more often than not  they say things like,
i've tried various herbs but what i found is that i seem to be allergic or sensitive to many of them probably because i am allergic to plants and flowers.
and  avoiding the antibiotics and steroids.
it's like osteopathy without the force.
from: jolie subject: childhood eczema look into a book called "is this your child" by dr. doris rapp.
at one time i was allergic to eggs; now they don't bother me at all.
since brian's birth, my eczema has calmed  down a lot.
i just wanted to second her itch,  if i may.
her diagnosis  is toxins in the blood.
unlike manual breast  pumps, the industrial pump is very gentle on your skin and does the job really  quickly.
it seems to protect it and it keeps me from scratching.
just bad cradle cap etc...
but i had to discontinue it
would you like to share with  us what did you/or chiropractor do to make this amazing improvement?
anything from does he have the measles, chicken pox, what happened to him???date: 27 feb 1997 18:17:10 from: anil subject:
i just laughed and told her i'd stop as quickly as possible (within a week).
is it a dermatology department study or what?
it's rather greasy, though.
not like  her sister, who cried out for help when she was in the same situation at the  same age.
she's been going to a hom eopath for 5 months.
royce subject: - egyptian cotton sheets flannel sheets seem softer to the touch but they still make me a little itchy.
hope i didn't  mislead anyone.
date: 18 feb 1997 19:25:39
and it helped me clearing my scalp problem (most of it).
i am now looking for a liquid form of the same type which can be mixed in his food.
2 more major flare ups within the past 10 days, both happened when we were dining out in a restaurant which was overheated and crowded.
as i write this i have at home three different jars of something labelled udder cream or udder ointment: all different, most at least reasonably good.
linda--i had a question about the breast-feeding advice from your  dermatologist.
ann: i know nothing about the ucsf gamma interferon study but your question makes me curious about it.
many, many foods make his face red and  blotchy as he eats (he's not too neat).
date: 12 feb 1997 09:22:21 from: nancy subject: happy to be back i've been reading your posts for a couple of months and was surprised to  see that there is a link between asthma, allergy, stomach problems and eczema.
from: david subject: sudocrem the jar of sudocrem i have says: sudocrem antiseptic healing cream napkin rash, bed sores, eczema, acne, surface wounds, sunburn, chilblains, minor burns zinc ox eurp 15.25% benzyl alc bp 0.39% benzyl benz bp 2.02% benzyl cinnam 0.15%
because of that, even though i eliminated other  suspect foods, there never was any profound change in her eczema.
does this sound like something you could do?
welts everywhere, all the time.
we used a product called "pancreatin," and i think it was by now vitamins.
for a while, say at age 11 or 12 mos, this actually  worked to help him stop.
my mother and i have gone back over my  highs and lows with it and the relationship to the homes that we lived in.
my 3 and 1/2 year old understood what it was  about.
we don't eat any corn, i make our bread and we eat almost no premade food.
no really big deal, as meat is ok.
either my husband or i have to stay with her or else she'll start scratching.
and i started  using vitamin e cream on his face.
our natural practitioners have given us a very different view on this  "atopia" idea.
geez, that's almost all that's in it!
i have all of them although my eczema is limited to my hands.
date: 18 feb 1997  14:51:43 from: karen subject: a newcomer was your son tested for soy?
date: 27 feb 1997 23:51:33 from: karen subject: body oil
i  started it to help her sleep better while sick with croup a few weeks ago.
it is so amazing how many people have the same problems as our household.
isaac thinks this is very funny, and he tries it, too.
the only possibility may be the vent.
from what i've read so far, it does seem that one person's cure is another's nightmare, such as lanolin.
date: 21 feb 1997 09:28:13
it's a pain, but the theory makes sense--you don't load the kid up with any particular food, and their bodies can tolerate the small, intermittent amounts.
date: 19 feb 1997  16:49:24 from: christopher subject:
he is crancy, flaring up,  generally unhappy.
they include the mcdougall program, and the mcdougall program for maximum weight loss, and at least 2 books of recipe collections.
i don't know but wonder if this tight weave makes things tougher for the dust mites.
my  husband grew up with fairly bad eczema and is still itchy...
the press releases are at: http://www.newspage.com/newspage/info/d20/d10/d50/public.pre/public.pre/pub  lic.pre/public/a.p0113173.100.prw75100.htm and http://www.newspage.com/newspage/info/d20/d10/d50/public.pre/public.pre/pub  lic.pre/public.pre/public.pre/public/a.p0107075.800.prw75100.htm i would like to get to the bottom of this because i take triludan for hay  fever in the summer, and my mother takes it all the time for allergic rhinitis.
i don't know what condition my eczema will be in on the day of the  wedding, so that has limited my choices of dress styles (i don't trust my  back/arm eczema enough to wear a sleeveless dress with a low back, but then  co-workers ask my why i would want to wear a dress with short sleeves in hot  weather, etc.).
the guy had a terrible "bedside manner," and i was so pissed off at his seeming disregard for what *i* needed that i didn't follow his advice.
my eczema was most active on my hands, and feet, though at times it attacked my ears badly.
i was trying to eat nutritious  snacks to keep my weight up -- i kept losing weight while nursing.
when her body temperature rises, her skin acts up and rashes develop quickly, especially on her cheeks.
i've also felt painfully self-conscious in the bridal salons  i've been in, worried that the sales assistant was looking at the spots on my  arms.
p.s. vitamins help me a lot-- c and e date: 19 feb 1997 19:26:31 from: patsy subject: good condition i've hesitated to say anything for fear it would put a jinx on this improvement, but i chance it to say my skin is in the best condition it's been in since i first encountered eczema.
oddly enough  he has no problem with milk and that is usually a big one.
now how do you control all the variables so you can find causes?
and frankly, now that i think about it... there are some  other things he has done in the past that have taken my mind off the  scratching, too...  :) :)
his mother was after him, for many years, to lose weight.
but i'm loathe to have coffee again as i think my improvement might be partly due to giving it up.
i found this message on sci.med.nutrition.
it was difficult to stop so suddenly, although i was  down to feeding him only 2 or 3 times a day since i work full-time.
the trick, however (which my parents did not do with her) was to stay loving and close and be willing to put up with the tirades that would come with forcing him to stop... when i think of all the nights that that little girl lay in her bed, with socks pinned over her hands, moaning and crying, i cry.
his legs are still a mess, but they're  getting better.
the anticholinergic effects of terfandine may be increased by drgus which have anticholinergic effects.
when i'm red or itchy i do the "evaporation" thing which seems to help.
but it usually comes right back.
so maybe i am on the right track.
date: 20 feb 1997 10:53:53 from: kim subject: my name tina, i read your post about your son not getting to eat what everyone else does.
these are the same 3 weeks she's  been clear.
i'd recommend it to anyone.
i am super sensitive about  my eczema and when it's bad i feel disgusting.
i have already sent away for mailings on how daniel can cope with  all this growing up.
if i take a pen an just touch the back of my throat (not stick it down my throat)
i watch what i eat (basically stay away from starch or high carbohydrate foods, citric acid, yeast, nuts, most cheeses (i'm allergic to mold) and fermented foods (including vinegar) although sweet potatoes & yams don't bother me.
i have signed jodi up for the clinical study as she'll be a year old in 2 weeks.
he was concerned that she was pretty tight again, out of the  blue.
right now, and i'm not sure why, it is completely, without a trace, gone from my face.
daniel's head is real flaky and itchy and scabby from scratching.
so many possible factors: salt water is healing; sun is good too (as in uva treatments); being on vacation usaully means time away from work stress and/or dusty house with pet dander; ocean air is generally pollen free; vacation clothes less irritating than work clothes...
that is the only side effect that i  have heard of, i believe it is generally quite safe.
9 years after bonnie was born, i had katie and immediately recognized her problem.
i used to visit my sister's house  practically daily.
and the  sheets are almost always over-sized and really nice.
date: 23 feb 1997 09:51:53
i used to use a hydrocorozone cream that was in a cold cream type base.
triludan (terfenadine) my understanding, from talking to my pharmacist is that it is purely an  interaction problem.
i kinda let him have it.
she looked happy and comfortable from within.
i took isaac to the pediatrician yesterday because he'd developed new spots on his chest--a new kind of spot he hasn't had before--not even hive-ish.
generally, i prefer to deal with hives rather than eczema (because hives  go away on their own), but the hives are more medically significant.
he still gets ear infections, but our ent lets  him fight the infections without drugs.
date: 22 feb 1997 01:43:15 from: carol subject: teeth for  scratching - yup, i have used my teeth to scratch the itch on my wrists.
they haven't started yet because they haven't gotten approval  from the ucsf review board, but they anticipate starting within the next few  weeks.
since removing some of these foods from his diet his skin has improved but not totally.
and make it fun, not just an awful serious chore.
she was a beautiful bride and she had a beautiful wedding.
now we are been bathing her every other day with cetaphil, no baths.
and, unfortunately, once i wasn't breastfeeding him anymore, he got in this never-ending cycle of ear infections.
so who are they to make these types of judgements of other professionals?
date: 18 feb 1997 17:32:03  from: unknown subject: a newcomer my daughter is also allergic to tomatoes she reacts with redness, itching  and hives around her mouth.
psoriasis: the natural alternative
if i can explain to him that i want very much to stop scratching, but need to find a way to do it that i can live with, as he needed to do with his weight, then i believe he will understand.
at age 10 months, our  doctors were convinced that isaac was "atopic" (and he was, in their  definition).
date: 4 feb 1997 23:06:10 from: marilyn subject: coffee and homeopathic remedies i seem to remember that it took me a day or two to rash up after drinking the coffee.
date: 27 feb 1997 18:17:28 from: anil subject: sun/sea
tina - i suppose when it comes atopy, the bottom line is really bad genes.
i know women who, for religious regions, never wear sleeveless garments.
i pretty much like our allergist.
there are good books on herbal care for children at most natural food coops.
but there's a big difference between knowing and being able to do something about it, sometimes... and feeling like i have to hide my scratching or get lectured only makes things worse...
date: 27 feb 1997 09:48:38
date: 18 feb 1997  15:31:02 from: david subject:
not like her sister, who cried out for help when she was in the same situation at the same age.
tell them to stop it, that they don't  have a clue.
evening primrose oil i use it myself (i'm 32).
i tried them anyway, and i have had  great success.
i've been using various cortisone creams, ointments... my whole life.
so i would recommend being up front with someone like a dressmaker  or sales clerk -- their job is to help you find a dress to let the inner beauty  shine through, and i expect they will all have good suggestions for your outer  looks as well if you let them know what you're up against.
when i was a teen, i cleared up and had no problems  until about four years ago.
the force of the scratching seems to be the only thing that equals the force of the frustration.
we also think that his eczema got triggered by a series of antibiotics that he was on to fight ear infections that began at about 5 months.
a good portion of these books review the health benefits of the diets, and include simple and quick recipes... lots of tips for substitutions.
hope i didn't mislead anyone.
right away at 2 weeks and just got progressively worse and evolved into "eczema.
i'm going to the hair salon next week for some trial wedding hairdos and i am afraid that the woman is going to be kind of disgusted by my scaly scalp.
have you seen mochi in a natural foods store or japanese market?
his face and hands are still red and swollen and he gets blotches on the rest of his body that come and go daily.
it does take my mind off the itchiness!
date: 11 feb 1997 21:55:42 from: faith subject: colloids - egyptian cotton  sheets try lands end (their coming home catalog).
by the way, i went dress pattern shopping with my grandmother & mother  and chose a pattern with a cap sleeve and high-cut back which looks stylish,  but which doesn't make me feel uncomfortable.
i've tried various bleaching creams & retina a to get rid of it but those products only irritated my skin which makes the problem worse, if anything.
i have recently tried smiling and saying "eczema" when i get "that look" -- and to my surprise, i have met so many other people who have it, who have family members who have it -- i had no idea it was so widespread.
i think this discoloration may be called atrophy (not sure).
i also ate alot of peanut butter, nuts and dairy because i don't like much meat.
you think you figured it out until the next allergy attack and then the detective work starts all over again...
i find that prednisone works for me less and less and sometimes i don't get the maximum relief until after i have been off it for a while.
i'm all  for the specific tests he's running...
so i went to my pharmacist and a doctor.
but everyone we know does.
i highly recommend getting all siblings involved to whatever degree possible.
that was when i threw the  towel in and took him to my homeopathic md.
new research has shown it's not as safe as was previously thought.
from: john subject: ultravate i just got a tube of ultravate.
i had called national jewish hospital some time ago they sugest baths up to twice a day to hydrate the skin, so i am going back to what my gut said from the start.
i don't know if they helped
anyone who are interested in the pill can find a dr in canada who would contact the emergency drug release program to request for it.
i still have problems  with all of those things, though especially to eggs, and any nuts.
because his strongest allergy was to peas and peanuts, we just decided not to mess around with soy (and our allergist agreed).
date: 28 feb 1997 12:28:59 from: royce subject: theory:sun.
i like the suggestion someone made of getting a backrub to take one's mind away from the scratching!
i feel more dry the longer i go without.
turned out he was a dentist -- (i laughed and explained, but notice i have not been dancing since.)
the dr checked her pulse, skin, tongue etc every day and changed the herbal mix as needed.
after pushing her, she said that the essential fatty acids that she worries most about are not actually gamma-linolenic (in epo), but the ones in fish oils--the omega-3 essential fatty acids.
the side effects can be nasty, but are rare and are more  likely when it is combined with other drugs.
it is light, not greasy, and gives your skin a cooling sensation.
i removed almost everything from her diet except rice, pears,  apples, sweet potatoes, squash.
lets find out  what is causing the outbreaks and go from there.
some of the side effects i have read or been told about are thinning of the skin---actually being able to see the little veins and bleeding easier.
so far i've experimented with eucerin, jergen's dual healing, lubriderm, and shi kai, all because i was able to get sample sizes of them.
i think i need to sit down with him and tell him that his blunt "stop that scratching" doesn't help me stop.
has anyone heard of this vaccine in the u.s.?
date: 20  feb 1997 11:01:00 from: kim subject: child eczema -reply rita, i feel the same way, if i would work just a little harder i could  solve my son's problem.
you can contact them at http://www.landsend.com/ or by phone at  (800)963-4816 (international: (608)935-6170).
she's still way better than before---hasn't gone  that far backwards.
i go crazy when it gets worse than that level, but as long as i am able to see direct improvements from use of antibacterials, steroid ointments, and moisturizers, i am able to tolerate living with this condition.
and examples from this list give me hope.
so, i backed up to the pure basics again (gerber applesauce, pears, rice cereal, squash, sweet potato..).
anyways, just had to get that off my chest...
this is what the npf warning s says: "do you take  either terfenadine, an allergy medicine sold as seldane, or ketoconazole, which  is used to treat skin infections?
now she's having  one or two (better) bowel movements a day instead of one every two days.
we started feeding him corn this week, and his back and stomach are broke out again with e. wonder if he's allergic to it?
yes, i know that my scratching is  just prolonging the flare-up.
you know, i am really wondering if it's not (also) due to the homeopathic  remedy.
since jodi doesn't like to lie on her belly, and seems to like standing up like  everyone else in the family, one of our favorite games is that while i sit in  the center of a couch, i ask jodi to get a toy from one end of the couch and  give it to me.
i expect he would not  only not find it likely to help him, but he'd find it debilitating.
for those with knowledge on it, please clarify how it can be diagnosed.
so it's good for everyday- around-town use.
i had acceptable weight gain of  33 lbs during that pregnancy.
though be careful and to not let the skin burn.
in the beginning, when you haven't had it very long over your entire body, the visual appearance gets so much attention.
date: 6 feb 1997 12:52:40 from:
he tells me not to scratch, which is helpful when i'm not aware that i'm doing it.
but i would get worse.
i try to put these pieces together and still couldn't make sense of what i've noted.
but then becomes a vicious cycle.
does this mean we can look forward to spring?
but mainly i just wanted to offer some emotional support for what is certainly a difficult situation.
if you can clear up the itching problem, 90% of the condition is solved.
i also got a new kitten on saturday, so maybe that has something to do with it.
in fact i have not had any e. since, anywhere, except a small 1-inch patch of dry skin on my upper arm that does not grow or itch!
my arms and hands are much better, too.
debbi went  one step further than i by using a chiropractor.
i am not on the edge of constant irritation and feel that i have had my sense of humour return!
date: 2 feb 1997 09:11:07
date: 4 feb 1997 13:24:48 from: dave subject:
i think i'll take your suggestion and stop putting socks over brian's hands at night.
so if you need it for anti-bacterial cleansing i would not use it daily if you can avoid it.
date: 3 feb 1997 12:26:50 from: kim subject: childhood eczema (to debbie, esp.)
so i am not sure which has done the most good
date: 3 feb 1997 10:39:07 from: heather subject:
he tells me not  to scratch, which is helpful when i'm not aware that i'm doing it.
what do you find is the hardest to deal with, such as itchiness or blotchiness or food allergies... not being able to eat what other people eat?
:-)date: 12 feb 1997 21:07:11
you should try l-lysine, the amino acid.
date:  10 feb 1997 10:28:26 from: brigit subject:
i almost think that i get a reaction if i use something more than once a day.
with hot washing all the stuff from 3 beds every 2 weeks (plus the curtains and small rugs), i take every possible shortcut in the laundry drill!date: 1 feb 1997 23:14:42 from: steve subject: detergents
i also use theraplex emollient and clear lotion as moisturizers and sometimes vitamin e oil.
from: donna subject: bag balm here in the states, there is only one "bag balm", the brandname of one specific product sold in the ubiquitous green can with red roses, put out by the dairy association co., inc. of lyndonville, vermont...
i am not willing to stop any of them right now because i am enjoying my health!!!date: 28 feb 1997 10:55:12 from: ted subject: new to list -forwarded our daughter 5 months old has had eczema since she was 3 months.
as long as we're talking about breakfast, i've been eating an immune  support cereal for 2 or 3 months that i think has kicked me back into health.
then i saw the ad and walked out and bought it.
everyone used to try & make me feel better by saying that i was the only one who noticed it and now i realize that it's not necessarily true.
just tell your baby that you will find a way for her to be normal...
then get yourself something slinky to wear at before or after wedding activities, so you can pick when you think your skin is at its best.
at the beach, it is in the air, sand and water but when i was young it didn't help to go to the beach if i didn't go in the water.
and why you feel you owe them an explanation...
date: 19 feb  1997 19:13:30 from: shanon subject: child eczema -reply rita, your post was heartbreaking...
another is highly allergy to certain food.
since brian's birth, my eczema has calmed down a lot.
according to my "bumper book of drugs for hypochondriacs" or whatever it is called, adverse effects from terfenadine are rare.
he seems to know what he's talking about,  i think he's scared of overwhelming us though with too much information.
i was also advised not to  breast feed my baby for a week to see if breast milk was the culprit.
my  eczema is the worst there right now.
the sun is shining and i'm going out to take  a walk.
i used to think her problem is leaky gut but am not so sure anymore.
one store told me that they have "sheets with all kinds of  designs"... !
and you know what, i didn't scratch!!!!!!
he  started sucking his thumb and twirling his hair--a trick he still uses when he  is frustrated or overwhelmed.
anyway, i just wanted to know if anyone can empathize with what i'm  feeling.
so, when i use the product i'm taking care of two things in one application.
i ordered the video "alexander, the elephant who can't  eat peanuts".
if it can't be found, then i'll settle for controlling measures, but i want to at least try for prevention first...
anyway, i can't even believe my eyes.
i called my homeopathic md for a referral for a chiropractor, unfortunately he is unavailable until monday.
it does directly affect the baby.
there are a ton of chiros everywhere, as opposed to the amount of pedi gi's, for example.
i can't vouch for the relevance or accuracy of what follows, knowing nothing about dermatitis herpetiformis myself, but i'm hoping someone on the list will be able to comment on how this might relate (or not relate, i guess) to our shared problem.
often there are cross-allergies between these  foods.
also, i am on an anti detergent kick, i remember kaye was going to try those disks to use in the washing machine.
i  hope your patch test shows something.
by stopping itches as soon as possible with cold water followed by air drying, i've pretty much got it to a tolerable stage.
and scratching is a short-term stimulation, not the deeply fulfilling comfort of tenderness, so scratching just leads to more scratching.
we started out with  small doses (1/2 tsp.
i wish i'd have had this sort of connection to others back then.
and it has been pretty gradual since christmas...
but if i could have gotten over the hurt  from his manner, and enlisted my husband's help in figuring out a new diet  (instead of feeling defensive because he agreed with the guy's recommendation),  it probably would have helped isaac.
" when i start scratching, i immediately put some lotion on, or anti-itch cream (sarna) or steroid ointment, depending on how the e. looks (dry, bumpy, etc.).
i like having the communication even if it is 2:00 a.m.
my husband actually has more of an understanding than i do since he has e. he remembers when he was a toddler that he use to take a receiving blanket and wrap it around his arms so he wouldn't scratch too hard.
even the cold water/damp sheet didn't work, and it usually does.
i use to work in retail and would stock shelves and just the chemicals from the cardboard would make me red and itchy---i don't have e. sue, thanks for the imput on e, allergies and asthma.
sorry to hear mac got so sick, i know how scary that is last winter.
the herbs were said to cleanse the toxins and expell them through the skin and intestines via her bowel movements.
i have a three year old that we were afraid would get it
well, this anti-bacterial lotion really makes my hands break out bad!!!
it's really beyond me to understand it.
and they are actually suggesting now that maybe he will be part of the 60% of baby eczema sufferers who will outgrow it.
but i have to "let it out" somehow.
well, now that you mention it, yes, at one time i *did* use my teeth to  scratch myself, and did so quite regularly up until about a year ago (when i  started trying to take care of the stuff... by simply not scratching even  though it about drove me out of my mind, as well as experiments with vitamin  supplements.
date: 27 feb 1997 16:07:08 from:
he's had rast tests that  identified peas, peanuts, and dairy as allergens, but we know that he has at  least superficial (skin irritation) sensitivities to eggs, peaches, tomatoes,  and especially mold.
but if any of you come to town, be sure and look me up!!!
no idea what's so special about it.
before we did that daniel was awake every  20 minutes to an hour scratching and crying.
my trick is another game--i  stick my thumb in my mouth, suck on it a second, then pull it out and scream,  then laugh.
they plugged him full of medications, antibiotics, drugs, drugs, drugs.
i think it was linda who talked about the guilt feelings of passing her  eczema on to her kid.
thanks be to god that there are actually some beautiful  females my age out there who don't care that much about looks (and  subsequently, will date me).
once again, thank you (all of you) for your kind words of concern and encouragement.
eventually, we'd get his attention, and then we could talk about the challenge at hand ("it looks like your blue truck is stuck under the couch... ".
if so, you should know the following.
from: wayne subject:  triludan (terfenadine) i found a posting i made to this list on sep 10, 95 that refers to a  warning i read about in the national psoriasis foundation's pharmacy newsletter  (v6#2, jul 94, p9).
date: 21 feb 1997  11:29:18 from: sue subject:
if, and when you begin to really not care about what people think of your eczema, that is when most will begin to ignore it.
dorling kindersley limited, 1994 472 pagesdate: 18 feb 1997 20:00:14 from: debbie subject:
from: lynn subject: cyclosporine richard, you mentioned in yesterday's posting that you had taken cyclosporine for a year and didn't itch during that time.
also said that they just found out that head & shoulders is just as effective as the nizorol shampoo that he prescribed for me the last time i was there... interesting.
hope you're doing better.
if anything, the itch is worse, but i think that's a healing  response (i really hope so) as the lesions are healing up, the dry patches and  my total body eczema (mild) are practically gone.
date: 4 feb 1997 20:24:44 from: karen subject: coffee & homepathic remedies/valerian and tcp coffee is a homeopathic remedy in its own right and often used for insomnia.
date: 28 feb 1997 10:49:17 from: alvaro subject: bad night-linda linda, don't worry, all eczema babies do that... try to use very long adult sock on his arms.
either way, it dried my (very oily) skin and that's the last thing eczema-people need.
would you like to share with us what did you/or chiropractor do to make this amazing improvement?date: 10 feb 1997 10:28:26 from: brigit subject:
date: 19 feb 1997 10:35:50 from: linda subject: a newcomer my son, brian, is now 6-1/2 mos.
detergent didn't seem to be a big problem for that ol' ej boy because we use all free and clear all the time, anyway.
i have been using curel as a moisterizer and an oatmeal soap.
most of my hive attacks have been of no  consequence.
recent  research has shown that when combined, these two medications can cause fatal  changes in heart rhythm.
i have noticed that a good vitamin regimen has almost eliminated the itching (it got to the point at one time that i wished i had a wire brush to scratch with), as well as induced healing.
as i said previously, i suffer from eczema, but i no longer even worry about  myself (although i should).
one of my older sisters was just talking to me about how she remembered helping to care for my eczema and how that made her feel special and at the same time close to me.
body oil -reply i have used vaseline for a long time now.
the other day my husband was in restaurant with daniel and a man gave him his card and recommended trying enzymes.
he's had rast tests that identified peas, peanuts, and dairy as allergens, but we know that he has at least superficial (skin irritation) sensitivities to eggs, peaches, tomatoes, and especially mold.
i presume it did some good (but i can't remember for sure).date: 7 feb 1997 17:48:34
anybody got an opinion?
i can't promise they'll help you, but they seem to have done the trick for me.
you can choose a tone of voice to suit your mood and/or  the status of the questioner.
but, it gave me a weird feeling of what might be to come if we don't get things under control before he gets much older.
i'm so thankful it's healing so quickly!
around that time, i ran  into a product that involved a conbination of multivitamin, cheleated minerals,  a variety of antioxidants and proanthocyanidins (in the class of bioflavanols.
thanks for making me feel  like i'm not alone.
i took isaac to the pediatrician yesterday because he'd developed new spots  on his chest--a new kind of spot he hasn't had before--not even hive-ish.
my eczema goes from bad to worse to clear depending on a million things.
but i had to discontinue it because it aggravated my irritable bowel syndrome.
i know i did the best i could.
from: rita subject: child eczema
at the moment i'm not using cortisone because my skin is pretty much under  control except for a few small areas and the usual dry, slightly itchy skin  that i don't think will ever go away (i use emollients & zinc for this).
childhood  eczema shelley--it is so interesting that the repetitive motion of a backrub can  help actually quell the itching for you.
date: 24 feb 1997 10:45:49 from: lynn subject: good reading
as i said before, i can't see why this formula  should work when tubes of cortisone ointments and creams don't, but it does.
her formula is  alimentum which has no milk protein or milk sugar or soy.
has eczema on his face, scalp, and  a few spots on his body.
i removed almost everything from her diet except rice, pears, apples, sweet potatoes, squash.
things just can't go on this way for him.
by the way, i am the leaky gut person, my gastroenterologist diagnosed his  as a birth defect.
we prefer this to scratching, but we occasionally  try to break this one up, too, just to make sure he isn't "going  away" to deal with his problem by himself.
now the only breakouts she's had this month have been after being around  them: two bad ones after actually patting two different dogs on 2 different  occassions, and then two mild ones after being in a dog family's house and then  after dog owners came to our house and held her for a while, etc.
i've gotten rid of 90% of my problems, and now if i can just get rid of that last 10%, i'll be so very happy.
itchy babies and struggling moms i have been reading alot about nursing and eczema and allergies on this list.
he started sucking his thumb and twirling his hair--a trick he still uses when he is frustrated or overwhelmed.
i have been using b-v, ultravate & zinc oxide, on an informal, rotating basis to calm everything down.
i want  the root cause!
and even if he doesn't--we will keep looking for underlying causes.
one thing i find interesting about these products is that they are made with a petroleum fraction and i can't tolerate petroleum itself.
i believe diet is a major factor, as well as regular bathing.
she then rebounded and we found a dermatologist who turned us on to the aquanil hc and cetaphyl (though we dont like the lotion and now have doubts about the cleanser) and vaseline... the vaseline alone seemed to do a lot of good, though my wife hates using a petroleum product.
i will have to ask him where  else so that others could check on the possibility of doing this closer to home.
it's like junk food, empty calories, you keep eating and eating and you're never full.
i don't mean to sound like "woe is me" i know things can be worse than this
the first one she was on was phosphorous.
out in the newsgroups i have several times found people that thought they  had "eczema" but really had undiagnosed dermatitis  herpetiformis.
anyway, it is  true what you said that you can never tell how bad it is going to be.
date: 10 feb 1997  11:25:43 from: royce subject:
i still cannot tell if the pruritus comes first or the rash comes first.
and whether you put the emphasis on the word you or that also varies the spin.
have you had your eczema since infancy?
you know  that i'll be the first to try it, no matter how badly it puts me financially  "in the hole."
crossing the intestinal barrier which can cause many clinical conditions, one of which is food allergies.
both have very long leaves and what i do is snip the leaves off and steam them together.
my pet peeve is people who act as if the rash is my fault somehow, as if i rolled in poison ivy or something.
that  night though she started another mild bout--itchy, a little pinkish red----but
one thing i am definitely grateful for is my supportive fiance.
the food is plain, but quite good --
could it be that this beastly stuff is also killing the dust mites or neutralizing the "mite-poop" or something?
the biggest challenge is the grains--everything is related to wheat, and hence belongs on the same day.
those of us who've had eczema all our lives  remember the hope that we would grow out of it, and i hate to be a spoil sport  and say "don't get your hopes too high" because i remember how that  hope kept me alive for 14 years.
for example, would he find it helpful if you constantly said,  "lose weight!"
he read me the riot act about all the antibiotics from last year, but what is a mom to do you work with what you have till you find something better.
when i was a child i took so much medicine for my allergies, eczema and a chronic allergic bronchitis (i had a deep mucousy horrible cough which i never found out the cause of but it went away as mysteriously as it came).
but like you i had a problem with high dosage.
every frustration  i experience seems to require the equal and opposite reaction of scratching.
i think it helps regulate my cycle (i used to have a very irregular menstrual cycle & bad pms).
now the only breakouts she's had this month have been after being around them: two bad ones after actually patting two different dogs on 2 different occassions, and then two mild ones after being in a dog family's house and then after dog owners came to our house and held her for a while, etc.
in the past i've found that sun helps for about 2 days, then i get a really bad outbreak.
he can call it whatever he wants -- that doesn't mean  i have to "just live with it"!
eucerin cream has worked about the best so far but it gets so greasy.
you might need to look at some bread alternatives while you undertake your "starve and the eczema will go away" diet.
they are raised by just one or two  swipes of his scratching, and they last for about ten minutes, then go away.
when you get overwhelmed, post another message like you did, that's what we're here for.
i could see a substantial  effect within only a few days of taking it.
occasionally  indigestion may occur.
a thorough cleansing should help the itching quite a bit.
you have to give yourself the injection every day for 3 months.
triludan fyi, i read in the paper that the fda has announced its intent to ban  terfenadine, which is the active ingredient of triludan (anti-histamine).
i was kind of concerned about it being strong and burning his raw spots.
it's a simple, off the shoulder short sleeve dress
sure enough, polypropylene glycol is in there!
earlier in the day yesterday, she saw the chiropractor.
i don't think it is widely-used because there were only two bottles on the shelf and they look like they've been there for a while.
i've never used the vaseline petroleum jelly either -- wouldn't it be very messy to put on under my work/dress clothes?
they remind me of  my childhood of agony and help me have sympathy for my mother who had no one to  talk to about her experiences.
my mother and i have gone back over my highs and lows with it and the relationship to the homes that we lived in.
so i wash as much as i can.
anything jodi has she wants too.
here's an update since my bad night story yesterday.
so there  i was, disrobing for practically the whole world to see, and my arms bright red  with excema!
then i started receiving this mailing list.
it is a great guide to figure out your child allergies without the aid of high  technology expensive dr. visits.
but i hope something show up, at least i would  know what is causing this.
date: 19 feb 1997 13:03:21 from: tina subject: hello again thank you chris, for writing to me.
reading the recent postings on the possible causes of eczema, i have been thinking about the cause of my 11 months' .
i still need to locate aquaphor--if i can't find it friday i will have our pharmacy order it for me.
after 50 years of life and skin trouble, i have many permanent marks.
i had it really bad  all over my belly but it went away as soon as i gave birth to juliet.
date: 20 feb 1997 10:53:53 from: kim  subject: my name tina, i read your post about your son not getting to eat what everyone else
then we got word from a nutritionist that it might not be good to be giving him that much.
for more information, contact your physician."
said she was really, really tight in the shoulder blade area, also has said she is making incredible progress--except for one session where he said she went downhill a bit.
i hope it really turns out that daniel does't care about the food differences.
i'm sure you can figure out something that will be at least tolerable.
i'm sure there must be other udder creams/ointments on the american market, but only one product goes by the name "bag balm"...
however, i'm going to start bathing her often and see if that helps too.
date: 20 feb 1997 11:01:00 from: kim subject: child eczema -reply rita, i feel the same way, if i would work just a little harder i could solve my son's problem.
the fact that i'm never given two remedies at the same time could be my homeopath's idiosyncracy.
a web search should yield more information than i can give you off the top of my head.
but i suppose all e sufferers share something in common.
it's great stuff though, at least from my  observations.
i remember those nights well.
i shout the stains of the entire gang.
i noticed that when i thought my eczema was some horrible, demonic thing, i rarely if ever dated (and incidentally, it flared up more!).
i just decided to try it because it was one that i'd never tried and it didn't contain lanolin.
date: 10 feb 1997 11:28:37
there's a tremendous lack of eczema information out there, i guess.
but just need to get off body odor, they are fine.
we still find blood in the sheets but not nearly as bad as when he was an infant.
my homeopath feels absolutely certain that  we'll get it right and that the eczema will be gone (along with future  allergies, asthma... ).
or maybe i will, and  do a comparison test.
one thing that i noticed throughout the years, that makes e/allergies even more annoying, is that my allergies to things change from time to time.
my skin is  almost completely clear now, thanks to a good vitamin regimen, and a little  change in diet.
stopping the formula and following the allergist's protocol, her skin is the clearest it has ever been.
just maybe it will make him be a leader (not wanting to be like  everybody else) and that will be a big plus in the years to come.
from: wendy  subject: eczema & wedding dress: need support!
great expression: feeling comfortable in one's skin.
so, she had 9 clearing days (with only 2 actual days of "looking" clear since she started out as mess), then went downhill for 3 days (but not too bad at all really) and now has been going back uphill for the last 3 days.
i try to avoid sweating if possible: swimming, running at night or on a treadmill in front of a fan, bike riding in skimpy clothing.
they were 100% eqyptian cotton.
the world owes you a lot of catch-up back-rubbing!
as for the other routine stuff, i also use tide free, double rinse... hot  water bedding... no antibiotics (she either had a bad reaction to keflex at 7  mos.
and it is still considered alternative by alot of conventional  med...
also, we sometimes play a game  where i hug him if i'm still itchy after putting lotion on; i hug him as many  times as i feel itchy.
and maybe a week to get better.
i want to share with you information regarding a new moisturizing lotion i have been using.
i don't know if this is related but for as long as i have had eczema (about 1 1/2 yrs)
and in truth, it was  much more effective in stopping the itching than many of the treatments the  doctors prescribed.
i ask because my almost-3-year-old recently underwent allergy testing and  was allergic to many of the things you mentioned, including milk and soy.
a few unrelated things: i'm getting married in august, and my grandmother has asked me if i would like to have her make my dress.
date: 22 feb 1997 02:06:34
even her bad days now are what good days used to be.
since there are so many possible causes, a diagnosis the same as my son's is very excitng.
there are foods katie avoids because they "make her tongue tingle" but no severe reactions have surfaced.
the holistic doctor said that taking enough of it (he recommended 4000mg per day) would build up the walls of the stomach so the toxins wouldn't leak out.
one thing i wish for is a vaccine for e. - i really hope they come up with something soon.
it says on the box 'helps improve skin conditions.
date: 22 feb 1997 15:49:17 from: christopher subject:  hello again what i find the hardest to deal with is the "dryness" of the skin  (as well as in the past, the "cracking, blotchiness, and bleeding").
he drew blood for one set of tests, and has me scheduled  for an allergy patch test (aagh!
he said no and that topical steroids do not affect the eye itself.
i can never say i'm cleared "completely."
i think that the same thing happened to isaac--i was drinking lots of milk, and
here's what i found on ribomunyl, at http://www.ccr.jussieu.fr/cgi-bin/fwidal3.pl?ribomunyl ribomunyl.
the last time i had a flare  up was 2 weeks before i gave birth to juliet, my older one.
lets find out what is causing the outbreaks and go from there.
hi sue, i am doing the exact things you are!
julia's on bufo (toad poison), a minor one, not many people have heard of it.
i just laughed and told her i'd stop as quickly as  possible (within a week).
rye is out, too, but all other grains are ok.
an effective healing agent.'
wow i feel like i could write a book about everything i experimented with to help my e. unfortunately, i don't know that it would necessarily help anyone.
no doctor,  pharmacist or other expert has been able to give me a definite answer.
our furnishings are either leather or wood, no fabrics, drapes nor carpets.
heather- for all people who ask terribly personal and none-of-their-business questions, i would respond, "why in the world would you want to know that?"
and i am praying that my skin is clear for the big day.
that stuff sounds great--i should probably be taking it too!
it seems that we always do when it comes down to it.
date: 21 feb 1997 13:57:49 from: jolie subject:
he didn't realize it but that made me even more self-conscious than i already am.
daniel scrubs his teeth along his wrists and hands...
this was new to me, i called the ambulance and had him  rushed in.
when i asked the derm.
before this, she never had a clear day.
she slept much better and had very good appetite.
in some posts, this is described as a non-steroid ointment made by westwood squibb and containing halobetasol propionate; in others it's referred to as a strong steroid cream!
i thought about dust mites.
hang in there!!date: 28 feb 1997 21:23:13 from: wendy subject:
i'm all for the specific tests he's running... and i didn't expect much more since we already got julia under control once ourselves.
it  got to a point where he avoided seeing her at all, simply to keep her from  harassing him about it.
date: 11 feb 1997 10:14:43 from: ann subject: polypropylene glycol royce, don't apologize for being angry at a doctor!
so i am creating an arsenal of antibacterials.
i think i might be doing this wrong too, then!
but i think i just developed an allergy to this within the past  couple of years.
eczema->athsma connection about the connection between eczema and later respiratory difficulties...
last time  i had a problem was in the fall when i had a scare with my mammogram.
in all, it was a total of 9 days in a row of gradual improvement and great  sleep.
ah the joys of eczema!
my husband and i pray daily for brian (and myself) for healing of the eczema.
i just ordered the zinc stuff.
looking forward to everyones response.
my husband has a better understsanding on the inability to stop  scratching than i do since he grew up with eczema, but not on his face, it was  mostly wrists and arms.
no doctor, pharmacist or other expert has been able to give me a definite answer.
generally, i prefer to deal with hives rather than eczema (because hives go away on their own), but the hives are more medically significant.
every frustration i experience seems to require the equal and opposite reaction of scratching.
perhaps the 3rd week we can discuss homeopathy or  alternatives.
though jodi's e is not a result of milk protein or milk sugar, i think it's worth testing to see if your e baby is allergic to cow milk or soy by replacing regular formula with alimentum or if you nurse, try avoiding all products with milk protein or milk sugar or soy if you could.
at the beach when i go in the ocean)-
it is a great guide to figure out your child allergies without the aid of high technology expensive dr. visits.
he also recommended other  vitamins but i am still in search of something he can chew or tollerate.
it is very hard  to get him to stop once he gets going.
my herbalist pals tell me milk thistle supports and repairs  the liver.
date: 21 feb 1997 21:11:00 from:
they are amazed at what he looks like now--no extra eyelid folds, no ear cracks, a clear face, etc.
i takes the burn out of my skin and also  seems to promote the healing.
the formula  he is recommending is the most expensive stuff on the market.
dorling  kindersley limited, 1994 472 pages date: 18 feb 1997 20:00:14 from: debbie  subject: welcome sue (& isaac)
i believe  (though i may be wrong) that regular bathing would remove some of the bacteria  that causes the itching.
i was going to try grinding some oatmeal in the  food processor, but maybe i won't go through the bother.
i have noticed that since i have quit taking the nature's biotics caplet, my eczema has gotten worse, so i know that that one is helpful.
you made it much easier to get through the day.
now i'm not sure that he wouldn't have had the ear infections anyway, just because of the allergies, but in retrospect, i think i should have forced myself to stop the diary and peanuts in my diet, and kept breastfeeding him.
i was on prednisone during late pregnancy when  i just couldn't stand it anymore.
i first tested this hypothesis by taking all milk, corn, and wheat out of my own diet for two weeks.
do you feel it's successful?
not on a baby (my  opinion).
i have been getting conjunctivitis and blepharitis.
date: 11 feb 1997 14:53:44 from: brian subject:
sometimes stray cats live in basements of buildings and their dander gets into the heating system and bothers cat-allergic tenants who think that they don't live with cats!
hooray!date: 7 feb 1997 21:55:37 from: ann subject: gamma interferon shelley, how great that your skin stayed under control after stopping the meds - you were so smart to go for it!
i'm thrilled, but i don't like this feeling of shame that i have regarding my eczema.
at least, that is what i have noticed, though i am probably wrong, but at least that is my observation.
(clobetasol propionate .05% in a base of purified water, isopropyl alcohol & carbomer 934p & sodium hydroxide).
i thought, 'oh well, in for a penny... ' and had two more cups later in the day.
you wouldn't believe how much more soap comes out of the second rinse !
our allergist only had us keep daniel off of his antihistimines for 2 days before the tests.
it's surprisingly good, firm but moist, and i can see how herbs and spices would make it different every time.
it would almost appear to me that i mark significant improvements on a weekly basis... especially this last 3 weeks.
i have used cortisone cream for twenty some odd years and i am so happy to have something else that i can use in place of it (at least most of the time).
for this reason, it's recalled from the market.
now he has learned to scratch with the backs of his hands---they are really rough and dry...
have a great day everyone!
i don't give her the drop very often since her appetite is mostly good.
things that helped her included balnetar (a tar bath that soothed her skin) and aveeno colloidal oatmeal bath.
i figured that those will be  pictures we will look at for the rest of our lives so i wanted to look normal.
besides my husbands e and allegies, we have a nephew with bad asthma, and my husband's great grandfather had asthma also.
i wonder though, if we are not perpetuating the problem, by  taking these legal drugs so often.
date: 11 feb 1997 10:18:20 from: ann subject: the riddle of the itch
all i can find about eucerit is that it's a special form of lanolin/wool wax  alcohol.
the doctor  just wanted to put me on stronger steroids.
date: 10 feb 1997 13:05:42
i don't know if this is just coincidence or what...
we have used evening primrose oil topically only and flax seed oil orally.
my daughter, now 16 months old, had her first bad "flare up" when she was 11 months old.
he's the author that speaks about leaky gut... and says along  with it there seems to be a little trouble with elimination (recommends enemas  or high colonics on a fairly regular basis) and talks about specific spinal  misalignments (different ones for psoriasis vs. eczema) and
can you elaborate a little on your personal experience  with it.
if you don't already have a book like it then i think it's worth reading.
much of this regimen is not simply to help the eczema, but to help my health in general (i don't eat what i should).date: 20 feb 1997 11:32:45 from: susan subject: child eczema
this archive was edited and coded for on-line publication on the web bybyte ryte bv .
we have to become educated consumers and unfortunately waste time investigating these ingredients to see if there are actually cheaper sources for the same stuff.
spray that it started to clear up and stop itching.
it's easy for my husband to say "stop scratching", but he's not the one who is itchy!date: 19 feb 1997 11:46:28 from:
in my history i have successfully treated eczema and my repetitive stress injury with one remedy, rhus tox.
the blood test in my opinion means nothing, even my gi never performed these tests on mac.
we have been struggling with his weight for so long--he limps along on his little 1st percentile growth curve.
it comes as powder in a capsule, so it was easy to give him--just sprinkled it on his applesauce.
and she is better so far.
i can also communicate successful products with an adult, the baby can't tell me if i am helping him!date: 27 feb 1997 05:30:31 from: brigit subject:
i am very excited about her  development and will look into it for my son.
can be obtained from:  life science products, inc. st. george, utah 84770.
jodi has had no blows to her head or  trauma to her spine; couldn't think of anything that could cause any neurotoxin  or any malnutrition.
in fact i have not had  any e. since, anywhere, except a small 1-inch patch of dry skin on my upper arm  that does not grow or itch!
my son's eczema started after alot of antibiotics and we do have ear tubes, i think they were harder on us than him.
date: 4 feb 1997 12:21:39 from: david subject: recipe, pls brigit, sounds to me that you need some plain chocolate (some plain chocolate has milk in, but the best doesn't).
blisters first developed on her lips and perhaps through her hands somehow got onto her right cheek.
i could see a substantial effect within only a few days of taking it.
triludan my understanding is that triludan on its own is safe.
i wonder if he's allergic to rice or bananas???date: 28 feb 1997 10:52:38
he has had three ear infections so far and (after reading some of the stories on this list) now i wonder if there's any connection between the antibiotic and the eczema.
and  good luck to all who try this.
date: 11 feb 1997 08:53:18
my regular dermatologist was in hawaii  (probably funded by me) and the doctor filling in for him actually joked with  me about my eczema.
so i would recommend being up front with someone like a dressmaker or sales clerk -- their job is to help you find a dress to let the inner beauty shine through, and i expect they will all have good suggestions for your outer looks as well if you let them know what you're up against.
in keratoconus, because of the corneal irregularity, light rays entering the eye are bent in odd ways, which blurs the image and reduces the sharpness of vision.
and solutions are just so similar to many of ours on this list.
we still might have to do ear tubes at  some point, but his ears are no worse than they were when he was on the  antibiotics.
do any of the children out there use their teeth to scratch themselves?
by the way, i went dress pattern shopping with my grandmother & mother and chose a pattern with a cap sleeve and high-cut back which looks stylish, but which doesn't make me feel uncomfortable.
from: kim subject: a  newcomer sue, i have been through about the same thing except have not tried as many  treatments.
at the moment my scalp is very good, not even dandruffy.
my daughter (age 2-1/2) has eczema and complete strangers are always asking questions about it, so i can empthasize with your self-consciousness.
hi susan, i am also new to the list and felt very moved by your post.
btw, does anyone know where i can buy egyptian cotton sheets?
unfortunately, it wears off after 3 weeks.
our theory is that his eczema/scratching is in  part his way of dealing with emotional challenges, and that he scratches  because it distracts him from the confusion/fear/pain he's feeling about  something in his life.
then if that doesn't work i will look  for the nutregena t. about new clothes.
thanks to all who responded re: mothers of children with e. my heart also goes out to all the moms -- i know what it's like, and it's heartbreaking.
he is 16 months old and has been itchy since just a couple of weeks old.
when i can allow myself to really experience the feelings, i can tell that the comforting sensation of a hand rubbing my back is something i never got enough of as an infant/child.
even when  i was a child, my parents built a new home and i completely cleared up.
i've just started her on flax seed oil, which is kind of similar to  evening primrose oil.
i know doctors can sometimes be pretty  blithe about their recommendations, not thinking through the whole picture and  just concentrating on fixing the portion of the problem you've presented them  with...
searching for things (easy-to-digest foods, supplements, minerals, vitamins, homeopathic remedies...
re: wedding dresses and e., in which she mentions turning a lovely shade of bright eczematic red when she went dress shopping.
and if i sweat, i feel like i will die.
date: 27 feb 1997 20:35:59 from: steve subject: theory:sun.
i now have dark looking skin on my neck- the skin is normal & smooth to the touch but has dark lines which looks like dirt or a weird suntan.
i can't imagine  having it all over my body.
and like i've explained, i've been doing the  chiropractor work, and dietary changes...
i suppose it  is because so many people are probably allergic to many of these things...
his skin used to be red, patchy,  raised, and when he'd scratch, it would get very angry red, raised, dry  looking, and eventually bleed.
my dermatologist asked me to stop nursing last week asap ...
from: david subject: sudocrem the jar of sudocrem i have says: sudocrem antiseptic healing cream napkin rash, bed sores, eczema, acne,  surface wounds, sunburn, chilblains, minor burns zinc ox eurp 15.25% benzyl alc bp 0.39% benzyl benz bp 2.02% benzyl cinnam  0.15% lanolin (hypo-allergenic) 4.00% made in ireland for: tosara products (uk) ltd po box 5 70 picton road liverpool l15
i really can't wait to get allergy tests done on him -- as a matter of fact, i think i'll call the allergist today to schedule an appt.
when you're an itchy person the thought of this can make your skin crawl (it does mine).
and yes, i know my scratching is probably keeping  him awake at night as much as it does me.
there have been many times  in the past when i couldn't stop scratching.
maybe i am  getting some of that well needed energy back now.
there's not too much i can use that won't irritate my skin but these moisturizers definitely have helped me.
i checked the price and  asked the clerk when they would be on sale.
and if later he thinks having eczema as a child is bad, wait until he gets to become a teenager.
this stuff must be genetic, though we do see correlations between what my wife eats and our daughter's skin condition.
you can order the products straight from the company or ask your pharmacist to order them for you.
not  knowing she was allergic to soy, we had been giving her soy toddler formula.
my wife has been doing the baby clothes in the laundry by doing a natural detergent at one quarter strength then a vinegar rinse followed by a baking soda rinse.
ej just recently took up scratching his scalp.
date: 27 feb 1997 09:40:47
too many doctors are just "all business" so to speak, and show no empathy.
try not to use systemic antibiotic.
she said her clinical trial on chinese herbal treatment in the u.s. is still awaiting the fda's approval.
then a doctor who knows about  alternative medicine (but has since closed up shop) told us to greatly increase  the dosage, to 2 tablespoons per day.
i am so sorry - i trust you have the strength to deal with this?
the overuse of these steroids caused atrophy (at least that's what i think it is) on my neck (the skin is smooth but it's discolored -it looks like dark lines).
after all, it is  your wedding!
by the way, i didn't consider the pedi gi visit a disaster at all.
i will send another message  tonight and call it e baby food.
so i resorted to benadryl for a few nights as a crutch  to help break the cycle.
at the second visit he said she responded really well (stayed pretty loosened up--apparently it usually takes some retraining of the spine before it stays in the right place).
date: 13 feb 1997 13:40:34 from: shelley subject: gamma interferon research  study i finally got hold of one of the doctors involved in the gamma interferon  study at ucsf.
it smells like the parking lot at six flags on a sunny day (creosote) and i wonder if it will be too harsh.
date: 1 feb 1997 08:33:43 from: steve subject: betadine for reducing bacteria on skin betadine is useful for prophylactic skin cleansing.
if your eczema shows on the big day, you pin the  wrap on with a brooch, if not, you just nonchalantly put it on and take it off  as you wish.
i've tried pounding pillows, but that doesn't match the  refined motor skill sensation of fingers scratching.
these days it's often replaced by one of its components, sorbitol (yes, the  sweetener).
and given that i'm in the middle of a particularly itchy flare-up at the moment, this may come in handy...date: 22 feb 1997 03:08:05
date: 27 feb 1997 15:00:36 from: shanon subject:
it is not the most pleasant thing in the world, especially if you date fairly  regularly.
because his legs are his worse area, i have sewn socks  into all of his jumpsuits and pants.
sue - though the viral attack started a month ago, jodi still has a few  scattered blister-like rashes broke out on her skin here and there.
god has been my source of strength through this time.
it has been an ongoing problem for years.
1 and a half tsp baking powder approximately 1 cup water, more if the batter's too thick.
from: brigit subject: heather- wedding dress
date: 12 feb 1997 09:33:44 from: jolie subject: healing psoriasis: the natural alternative
remembers when he was a toddler that he use to take a receiving blanket and  wrap it around his arms so he wouldn't scratch too hard.
i would like to find an anti-itch cream that is not totally nasty.
she'll be a year old this weekend.
everyone seems to be different.
and reading some of the responses were just too funny --
it was a real boost to see all the info from so many people on eczema.
the day belongs to *you* and your intended and nothing else matters.
actually, the summer was normally the worst for me, because i was outside  the most.
what do you find is the hardest to deal with, such as  itchiness or blotchiness or food allergies... not being able to eat what other  people eat?
frankly, one chronic, poorly-understood medical condition is plenty; i didn't need the eczema on top of the repetitive strain injury problems i already have.
i hope you 2 have a lifetime of happiness which clears your skin forever!
she lies chest down across my lap she lies on her side.
no matter what condition your skin is in, the important thing to focus on is the wedding.
but  here we go (these are all taken twice a day): 1 vita smart men's multi-vitamin 1 capsule (400 i.u.) vitamin e 1 capsule (19 grains) of lecithin (i believe this is a soy derivitive --i  am just experimenting with this one!)
some have 320 threads per  inch.
the recipes in this one are a collection from various chefs -- they can be quite elaborate, but are very good.
recent research has shown that when combined, these two medications can cause fatal changes in heart rhythm.
i'm thinking about getting someone to do a comprehensive air testing in  our new home.
i really only have eczema on my hands, mostly, and i prefer b-v to the ultravate.
his legs and arms were still scratched up because of wearing shorts and such---but face wasn't as bad..
and it has  been pretty gradual since christmas...
we use topical steroid creams when he gets real bad only about once or  twice every couple of weeks but they scare me.
it won't stop the viral attack and it destroys good flora.
they tend to pop out on me when i get excited.
it  can do nothing but make the skin worse.
the last time i had a flare up was 2 weeks before i gave birth to juliet, my older one.
when i went to the holistic doctors they said that i had a high level of candida yeast in my system and thought this might be causing the eczema to flare.
keep up the good work!date: 19 feb 1997 11:01:31 from: ann subject: hives susan, what you describe on your son's skin sounds like hives to me also.
each pill was $3 and i was taking 1-3 pills per day.
the  "evaporation" therapy that was mentioned by someone in the group has  been something that i used in the past, though i never knew anyone else used  it.
by the time i've been in for a week, my legs look almost normal.
and i started using vitamin e cream on his face.
if potency1 is lower than potency2 then time1 is greater than time2.
but no problems so  far (she had several ear infections until she was two but now can blow her nose  and has never has another).
debbie, i am sorry this gi was a disaster or so sounds like it.
peanut being bad enough  to need to tote the epi-pen!
the day belongs to *you* and your intended and  nothing else matters.
her face started clearing for 3 days on her own (no cortisone), yet wasn't  sleeping due to "all-over-itchies."
i just went to the dermatologist last night
the medical community uses the concept of "atopia" to describe people who have a predisposition to allergic reactions...
congratulations on your wedding plans!
and like i've explained, i've been doing the chiropractor work, and dietary changes... but no enemas yet!
trust me, i know this from experience.
it doesn't look like other people's skin!
i have not relapsed after stopping the prednisolone and antibiotics.
i've been giving her an antihistimine once at bedtime lately too.
i buy it in 16oz. bottles and put a small squeeze bottle of it and mineral oil half and half in the shower.
never used  antihistamine either, only used steroid for a short period.
sometimes i take the antihistamine zyrtec (it's non-drowsy).
i used to take at least one oatmeal bath a day and it was the only time i felt comfortable in my skin.
what chinese vegetables is she taking?
exercise used to give me terrible hives, redness, and itching.
since the hard lens surface is smooth and regular, the blur is eliminated.
tcp is phenol-based and i imagine you can get it in the us.
i always just wanted to be normal.
the body can eventually heal itself if it can get out of the cycle long enough to "catch up".
i have so many questions.
i'm thrilled, but i don't like this feeling of  shame that i have regarding my eczema.
and of course, my skin hasn't looked that good since!
one good tip from my own experience-i had very bad hay fever from puberty till age 31 when i gave up caffein and refined sugar completely (no pepsi or iced tea either) and started eating organic and only rarely red meat.
i threw out all the products i had that contained this chemical and decided only to use my theraplex moisturizers and zinc oxide ointment (a lot of the cortisone creams have this chemical in them too).
i also give ecchinacea-for-children and an herbal extract drink to my kids to boost their immune system.
e. i also stopped drinking milk myself when i resumed breast feeding.
i also know we could have it alot worse, disease and health wise...
and more than you would think do know, and react quite sympathetically.
the only thing jodi has benefited from is chinese herbal treatment.
as i told him once, "you're easier to ignore than the itch is... "
we are still going to the chiro., although he just cut her down to once a  week (after 3 wks.
but they looked at me like i was crazy.
i had that patch test (t.r.u.e. i believe) done twice and it showed  nothing.
the rest of his body is  totally free of eczema now (big hooray with lac-hydrin 5), but his scalp is a  mess of dandruff.
fry sliced mush leftovers on a greased griddle to make "pancakes".
if your child is in fact actually allergic to corn it might be worth mentioning that corn products are in a zillion foods--due to corn starch and then corn syrup used as a sweetener.
our doctors just put him on one anti-biotic after another, and we went along with it, not knowing we should be concerned, for a few months.
we did a four-day rotation for a long time--split all the foods into four different days, and them moved to a two-day.
he explained that the misalignment probably did happen at birth--after all, she was 10 lbs.
;-) i've noticed that when i'm clothes shopping or fabric shopping, my hands frequently start acting up (getting hot & itchy; patches of e. start to redden).
he is such a blessing -- we thank god for him every day.
i came back with a full luggage of herbal mixes and just finished them all not too long ago.
most people really are not malicious, they simply do not know.
date: 28 feb 1997 14:38:15 from:
after talking with other moms on this list i took advice of severe diet changes.
bonnie still finds balnetar to be comforting (despite its awful smell) though the oatmeal now causes some problems for her.
date: 1 feb 1997 14:41:46 from: wayne subject: "bag balm" i like bag balm because it acts as an emollient and an antiseptic.
this has been a tremendous three months for me.
really hot water is bad but for me hydrating the skin and moisturizing immediately after is good.
i have never seen another child's skin that looks like daniel's---we are always asked questions about his face in public.
i found it long ago, but lost  it, and can't find it.
i do miss that one-on-one contact with him, but he seems to be ok with it.
itchy heads and new clothes thanks to all who wrote about kid's scalps.
i didn't keep the phone number, but it was a doctor named (i think)
date: 21 feb 1997 11:29:18 from: sue subject:
i've used topical steroid creams regularly since a baby, and i use them  fairly regularly now (my eczema is not as bad).
sweat purges infections i too notice great results when i'm in the sun (esp.
at 32 years old, my husband and i moved to a new house to start our new  family.
thanks for all the tips.
i have hard enough time with the food and  itching.
just thought this was interesting.
yes, it's interesting how the drug companies mix and match ingredients and come up with a wide range of prices that don't seem to correlate to what's actually included.
i hope your little boy is better today.
the first  one she was on was phosphorous.
makes me wonder sometimes...
personally, i think i'll like the "hugs" method.
as i said previously, i suffer from eczema, but i no longer even worry about myself (although i should).
no matter what condition your skin is in, the important thing to focus on  is the wedding.
so i am refusing to believe the inevitability of the eczema-athsma  progression.
evening primrose oil & e moms/dads -reply
when i began to really not even care about it, i began dating this absolutely gorgeous girl (and its flare-ups decreased).
i've been noticing a 3 day cycle to the "bad" times.
her dermatologist told me that lots of his patients have the same results.
about any side effects he kind of blew me off (as if i dared to question him).
she found a vegetable vaseline substitute, and it works though it must be used more often.
and there you have it.
no cats here, however the dr. did indicated that kids don't always show correct test till they are about 5, i wish it would have worked.
my wife is pretty much a vegetarian, i have the family history of fair and tender skin.
date: 21 feb 1997 15:52:03 from: heather subject: the helpfulness of "don't scratch!
anyhow, hope you and your children have a good day!
gotta go,  off to the chiro.
date: 18 feb  1997 12:08:23 from: susan subject: a newcomer we think that isaac's eczema is related to allergies, but we have not been  able to pin down exactly what he's sensitive to.
date:  19 feb 1997 08:55:04 from: brigit subject:
hopefully, jodi's e will get better.
when i asked the chinese dr where the toxins came from, he said it was from me when i was pregnant with her.
for any who want to try this, let me suggest a few books: all of john a. mcdougall's books are vegan (no egg, no dairy).
i also may note that the lecithin may be causing more harm than good (i am experimenting with it).
i hope you 2 have a lifetime of  happiness which clears your skin forever!
now he wakes up about once a night  for a water bottle.
eating lots of peanut butter, when i was breastfeeding him, and i was making  him sick.
which still might be true, actually, but it was such a great thing to have him break the 20-pound barrier.
we usually gave him 4-5 tsp/ per day, and  think that this really helped him.
i don't know if what we did helped, but here's what it was.
my 28 months is getting quite jealous lately.
heather, the lace suggestion sounds like a good idea to me.
it gently repositions any dysfunctions in your body, and re-aligns the cranial bones to their correct position.
but i figure that this is the place to go for some good advice on this subject.
footnote: i feel much better on a vegan regime, but don't use it frequently.
great suggestions for the more gourmet palate... and lots of sauce and stock recommendations.
hard lenses do not really alter the shape of the cone.
date: 10 feb 1997 10:58:21 from: kim subject:  eczema & wedding dress: need support!
it wasn't until i started using zinc oxide ointment, evaporation and zinc pyrithione 2% (skin-cap)
they were all ok, not great.
he is 16 months old and has been itchy since just a  couple of weeks old.
i want the root cause!
she's  learning to walk holding onto things around her.
i started taking b complex last week, and i don't know if that's the reason, but i thought i would pass this along just in case.
hello someone posted names of some anti-dust spray products.
i know what you mean about the food challanges there are lots of variables that you have to keep track of.
when i suggested them one time while  talking with him, he shrugged them off.
he  talks about pizza or hotdogs but never offers to have a fit over not having  them.
didn't seem to know why she was worse again on mon.
what ever dress or medication you choose, i think it is wise to  have one stock phrase for those who comment on your skin.
i'm not  doing a green leafy thing so i don't know anything about it.
some have 320 threads per inch.
we are very interested in successes with various natural products.
his mom kept a piece of it in his scapbook...
the homeopathic md suggested vitamin therapy for mac, first and foremost the colloidal minerals.
i understand my mom always  has another cause for my son's eczema and if he has skin out for people to see  they think i let him get a sunburn, i want to say, mind your own business we  are doing the best we can.
so i can't use it for a long period of  time.
my son reacts strongly to smoke filled rooms and antique stores, this is in addition to his food intollerances.
people are finding the  right combinations of vitamins, diets, allergen avoidance, emotional  assistance, etc., and are actually getting better.
expirimentale. - toxicologie clinique et effets secondaires des midicaments immunostimulants.
i am  greatly impressed with your efforts, especially what you call  "training" and "counseling".
the herb works very well for my wife ( i think she is more or less cured) but we have not yet dared give it to my son (because of his age ).
i don't know if i will  do it because i'm nervous about giving myself injections, but i'll think about  it.
the best my skin can be is "under control."
i would let him be in direct sun for 5 to 10 minutes then go play in the shade.
i have been told that prick  test doesn't alway tell the whole story till a child is atleast 5 years.
btw, i agree with your observation that the primary reason that we scratch is because we itch, and bad.
i do worry about enough vitamins, my homeopathic md recommended  essential minerals, it did make a difference.
chiropractor says to expect a couple more quick bouts before healing.
they say this as  if it is the same as being all in my head, and therefore still my fault.
my second pet peeve is people who with all  the authority in the world announce that it is stress-related.
1.0% hydrocortizone usp, sd alcohol 40.
this sounds weird, but i began very early to help  him figure out how to stop himself from scratching.
since then all of my eczema has been burning (it feels better today though).
something in neosporin can cause allergic reactions.
they also carry natural (unbleached, undyed) cotton sheets & blankets,  even a cotton-stuffed pillow (no down).
perhaps your son has a similar problem?
she is trying to learn all she can about her condition, which is one reason that i joined this list.
i hope you agree with me.
i'm glad you found out what the hives were from.
from: kim subject: debbie and  mac's mom???
if so, she'll be better in our new home.
this is a british cookbook (thorson's publishing group), and i have not seen it in the us for years!
i hate having him off things that might be ok because it seems that all fun foods are bad for him.
this wasn't a big shock to me since she was showing other signs of stomach distress at home: squirming all over when nursing again, etc... hmmmm.
my son reacts strongly to smoke  filled rooms and antique stores, this is in addition to his food intollerances.
i have been tested my times, the most thorough being a blood test.
i also just bought tea tree oil soap to see if i can benefit from the antibacterial effects of that too.
i am glad to see i am not the only one to discuss leaky gut.
we are all anxious to help our little ones and we all have so much we can share.
the world  owes you a lot of catch-up back-rubbing!
i never thought my e may come back to haunt me but is not so sure anymore.
if something shows up, he'll see what he can do to help it.
we had a similar problem last year when we went no place because my son always got a cold, no matter what if we left the house he was sick.
all 3 areas of the spine actually have  vertebrae affecting/affected by the stomach/liver area.
and you have been dealing with them as a teen.
i want her to look back on her babyhood and not just see eczema in every picture!date: 11 feb 1997 19:05:49 from: peter subject: scalp royce, you may want to try satina 'd' wash lotion - it's good for all over the body and it helped me clearing my scalp problem (most of it).
as long as you are at it, ask him if he can order the largest bottle possible.
we still try to avoid those foods, though.
i think the midnight scratch-fests and constant irritation sapped my energy reserves over the years.
date: 21 feb 1997 20:21:01 from: faith subject: what's next sue writes something that struck a nerve with me.
my wife has made a number of herbal salves and we have talked to numerous homeopathic doctors and herbalists.
jessica jessica, sorry to hear about the herpes virus.
i  want her to look back on her babyhood and not just see eczema in every picture!
date: 13 feb 1997 15:30:57 from: karen subject: glycerin i have always suspected that glycerin may give the illusion of lubricating the skin while it is in fact drying it out.
being right in the center of the couch allows me to stop jodi from falling when she loses her balance.
i tried a wheat- and dairy-free diet once, though i still ate eggs.
his mom kept a  piece of it in his scapbook...
yes, i know that my scratching is just prolonging the flare-up.
this makes them look  pretty raw and swollen on top of the normal dry and cracking.
date: 3 feb 1997 13:51:03 from: dave subject: eye problems: keratoconus
and i have stopped using lotion/cream-type moisturizers.
daniel did look alot more clear last summer.
especially at the end it has children  with allergies being interviewed.
she has bowel movements 2-4 times a day, with her poo looking either soft-sausage-like or custard-like.
i encourage you to select the wedding gown that you'd feel most comfortable  with and not worry about what friends and relatives think.
or more a day) is a problem.
i have no idea if it would be safe on a baby, but nail polish on the ends of the nails really makes mine far less lethal.
central air may bring the dust mites into our unit.
i will send another message tonight and call it e baby food.
and she's nursing normally today.
this book talks about the misalignment of the spine causing psoriasis and  eczema problems.
if she's part of the care-taking, maybe she won't feel quite so left out.
i mentioned a week or two ago  that i was going to push my dermatologist in this direction, and i have had a  start down that road.
phytopharm is trying to register zemaphyte as a prescription drug and is currently conducting clinical studies in canada.
when i read through past archives, i could relate to those of you  talking about scratching for hours in bed at night.
date: 12 feb 1997 09:33:44
i discovered this while using desowen lotion- after using it on my face & other areas of my body for over a year.
but i have to be careful not to burn.
a private drs. office but the actual study was to be done by ucsf.date: 8 feb 1997 04:24:46 from: debbie subject: julia's infant eczema julia is doing extremely well!!!
if my mother had had the intelligence to handle the emotional aspects i think i would have made major improvement.
that night though she started another mild bout--itchy, a little pinkish red----but
there have been many times in the past when i couldn't stop scratching.
copyright of the individual messages rests with those who posted them.
i take the epo capsules (usually 2 a day) when i remember.
these skin diseases always show up after i take a drug for awhile.
the best--by far---since when she was 3 mos. old (when it was all just starting up).
i have been told that prick test doesn't alway tell the whole story till a child is atleast 5 years.
my  husband actually has more of an understanding than i do since he has e. he
in a nutshell, you collect dust  from your home and send it to john hopkins, they will analyze it and tell you  what is in your home.
but at any rate i'm real hopeful now.
my wife and children have noted a definite positive change in my demeanour.
as this is not for life, just for a month, i expect to be able to keep it up; the only real problem i have is in finding something to eat for breakfast/lunch.
i think the flow of perspiration allows the pores to be purged and the skin cells to be cleansed by the moisture being forced from the inside of the body out through the skin.
this changed when she started solid foods.
but i feel better than i have in years and went jogging at lunch today!!
of course i  also had my share of goodies -- chocolate.
we use antihistimines at night.
date: 11 feb 1997 12:04:29 from: debbie subject:  julia's infant eczema
sometimes we'd have to pick him up, or put him in our laps, to get even enough  of his attention to talk to him.
red wine is a problem, white wine much less, and any alchoholic beverage has some irritation.
from: amy subject:  scalp i don't think many remedy shampoos work once the eczema digs into your  scalp -- i've seen two heads, my own and another that bear the evidence.
and new ones show up somewhere else.
the allergist says daniel will most likely outgrow  the food allergies all but eggs and peanuts, but by the time he is 4 or 5 will  become allergic to airborne allergins.
sounds like they do not like the competition of a chiropractor.
daniel is highly allergic to peanuts, filberts, cashews and eggs.
jodi's diagnosis was toxins in the blood.
i wasn't putting on any steroid  ointment in those bad months because it wasn't changing anything so i didn't  want the drugs.
i was hoping for tests, actually.
date: 17 feb 1997  12:56:17 from: david subject:
if you have difficulty bringing up the subject, try practicing either by  yourself or with a friend.
but i've been doing everything else since then too (diet, colloidal minerals, chiro.).
my daughter (age 2-1/2) has eczema and complete strangers are always asking  questions about it, so i can empthasize with your self-consciousness.
just maybe it will make him be a leader (not wanting to be like everybody else) and that will be a big plus in the years to come.
anyway, after 40 years i have learned how to recognize when i can say my skin is "good" and it is good right now, but as i'm sure you know, "good" is relative for us.
there are so many things  you can try.
it's so hard to keep track of what to and not to stay away from.
even then, these had to be rotated.
previous to the egyption cotton sheets, i had on some occasions changed  sheets 3 times (all 100% cotton).
i'm surprised i can bear it, since the thing is 62% ethyl alcohol.
date: 11 feb 1997 04:42:17
so we still don't know whether the evening primrose oil, "high doses" (a tsp.
(jeez, he's almost two, and technically, he should still be in the  infant car seat!)
date: 13 feb 1997 04:35:55
i would add my "2 cents" that maybe it is time to try something else... the first perhaps being taking nothing for a while, then if that doesn't get you somewhere, try the immuran.
i went with the pharmacists  suggestion and within a week i have almost entirely cleared up my eczema.
at the recommendation of a naturopath, he was taking  all kinds of weird things, most of which we have now stopped.
never had any thrush or  any sign of candida, no ear infection or use of antibiotic .
i take kelp everyday, it seems to help
it's not recommended for children under 3 years of age and one can only take it continuously for no more than 12 weeks.
those scaley red itchy areas are a bit of a giveaway that i have it, without any gag test!
i called my homeopathic md for a referral for a chiropractor, unfortunately  he is unavailable until monday.
but maybe the load was  too big and didn't get rinsed thoroughly.
he never thinks it looks bad (or so he says).
triludan fyi, i read in the paper that the fda has announced its intent to ban terfenadine, which is the active ingredient of triludan (anti-histamine).
one thing i am definitely  grateful for is my supportive fiance.
sweat purges infections this sounds like a good theory, but there must be something more to it than this, because if i work up a good sweat during indoor exercise, my skin flares up afterwards.
also, does time of year seem to have any effect on the disease?
delivery was very very smooth, less than 10 minutes.
this was new to me, i called the ambulance and had him rushed in.
i've been sleeping with a soft, white cotton tee-shirt over my pillow  case because it's the only thing that doesn't make me itch!
it's also alot easier than trying to get the oil out of the softgels, for babies who can't yet take pills.
from: jolie subject: healing
ann subject: polypropylene glycol royce, i stand corrected.
his skin used to be red, patchy, raised, and when he'd scratch, it would get very angry red, raised, dry looking, and eventually bleed.
date: 19 feb 1997 11:24:25 from: patsy subject: welcome sue (& isaac) what you are describing on isaac is hives - a condition i also have.
date: 26 feb 1997 12:41:33 from: kim subject: body oil i am anti detergent and lotion for the week.
i  was never able to connect it.
we've also been doing the chiropractor for 3 weeks now (twice a week) with great success.
from: debbie subject: non-irritating detergent i use bold free with an extra rinse cycle.
my problem is that i cannot financially afford the dosage that it asks.
and, unfortunately, once i wasn't breastfeeding him  anymore, he got in this never-ending cycle of ear infections.
do whatever you can do to keep your focus off your skin so that  whatever its condition, it won't take centerstage.
since removing some of these foods from his diet his skin has improved but  not totally.
add on your successful foods, by the end of  the week we can print one list and start testing new foods for our little ones.
i had acceptable weight gain of 33 lbs during that pregnancy.
it became difficult not to use emollient.
if you were somehow allergic to glycine,  eczema would be the least of your problems, since glycine is in virtually every  protein in your body.
when my mum suggested something with a low back or no sleeves, i just said, "well, i don't know how my skin will feel that day, and i'd be happier in a different dress."
my family is very supportive but sometimes they say hurtful things and  don't even realize what they're saying my father suggested that i make a drappy  scarf out of the material from the dress to put around my neck because i have  these brown lines as a result of overuse of steroid creams.
date: 11 feb 1997 22:04:00  from: faith subject: miracle "cure"?
it won't stop the viral attack and it  destroys good flora.
date: 10 feb 1997 16:03:06 from: karen subject: eczema & wedding dress: need support!
our natural practitioners have given us a very different view on this "atopia" idea.
i mentioned that i had been using topical steroids on my hands and arms and occasionally around my eyes, but that i had stopped when i read about "alleged" effects these had on eyes based on something i read on this list.
also, i can't believe a dr. would actually joke about eczema.
i really do hope that  nothing else develops over time.
have i tried homeopathy?
i still prefer ointments because for me, greasy is better.
he's always been sensitive, emotionally, but this physical sensitivity is striking.
not sure if this helped or not.
thanks to all who responded re: mothers of children with e. my heart also  goes out to all the moms -- i know what it's like, and it's heartbreaking.
everytime i went to go shopping for a dress my skin would decide to flare up and become a lovely shade of sunburnt looking red (really bright against those white dresses).
i  sometimes wonder if i had had a flare up when i was pregnant with jodi, she  would not have had her e. date: 21 feb 1997 11:45:22 from: tina subject:  itchy heads and new clothes thanks to all who wrote about kid's scalps.
what exactly is keratoconus?
i'll keep you posted.
he never thinks it looks bad (or so he  says).
the pills are taken several times a day.
i agree that they suppress the immune system.
mine pick up a lot of dust in the  closet, but i would wonder about having the spray so close to my body.
he yells,  cries, kicks, and struggles, but we calmly hold him, encourage him to keep  going in his crying and kicking, and assure him that he's doing the right  thing, we love him, and we'll help him through this.
it has to be quick&easy, so that i can bake a bunch and freeze them in for use instead of bread.
the ingredients are: water, urea 5%, sorbitol, glyceryl stearate,  lactic acid, isopropyl palmitate, octyl palmitate, stearyl alcohol, stearic  acid, ceteareth-25, ceteareth-6, peg-40 jojoba oil, quaternium-15,  menthylbenzethonium chloride and edta.
the trick is finding the next  specialist to move to...
date: 9 feb 1997 18:49:30 from: amy subject: pancakes
you are the one spending the  money, if she indicates she has a problem with your skin condition, you  indicate that you have enough of a problem with her attitude to consider taking  your business elsewhere...
my problem is that i  cannot financially afford the dosage that it asks.
she didn't like the bitter taste but got used to it soon enough.
this game keeps both  girls happy and they both have my attention.
he also suggested a vitamin high in leafy green vitamins.
recently, when i ran out of hydrocortizone cream i put this on my face and it acted much more effectively there than the cream--practically the "magic bullet" for my facial eczema.
i've also got a suspicion that it helps me tolerate dairy products better - i can't eat them all the time, but the occasional cheese etc doesn't flare me up as it used to.
doctors caution that it might have a drying effect, and should be used carefully as should all stuff we put on our skin.
he said it will help her stomach area for sure, whether it helps her eczema he's not sure... but agrees it's quite possible if the stomach is the cause of her eczema.
as for the other routine stuff, i also use tide free, double rinse... hot water bedding... no antibiotics (she either had a bad reaction to keflex at 7 mos.
i'm sure this bacteria makes the skin itch more.
i tried a 100% pure glycerin soap and had a  reaction.
i am not sure that will show up on the test.
we are trying to distinguish between foods that isaac's skin is sensitive to, and ones he's actually allergic to.
after 10 days, i tried to wean off and had a return flare as bad as the first.
he has had three ear infections so  far and (after reading some of the stories on this list) now i wonder if  there's any connection between the antibiotic and the eczema.
there are a ton of chiros  everywhere, as opposed to the amount of pedi gi's, for example.
with leaky gut, it is said that constant bombardment of allergens can cause the leaky gut or the porous walls may "cause" the allergies.
looks like a sensation of bugs crawling all over you.
this is the exact time period she described it would take.
so the body just keeps manifesting the underlying problems--first through eczema, then through athsma, etc.
i wasn't putting on any steroid ointment in those bad months because it wasn't changing anything so i didn't want the drugs.
i'll try it again though, as i'd also eaten more cheese than i should this last week.
the  information in the database seems to speak for itself.
the one thing  that we think really worked was the evening primrose oil.
it feels soothing though and helps with the itch, especially on my face.
o.k. i sent him packing
i am sensitive to most lotions and find it hard to find some type of moisturizer than won't "burn" my skin.
he will lay there as long as i want to rub.
and i'm always learning something from this group -- it's really great!
and i'm so sorry you feel that awful self-consciousness...
i wonder if you could find people to rub  your back for a few hours every day, if you could help your skin.
date: 18 feb 1997 15:31:02 from: david subject: triludan (terfenadine)
thank god the topical antibiotic stopped it from spreading to other areas.
i hope it is comforting to know that we are all out here with some of the same problems---it sure is for me.
i don't know if he knows about tide free.
at first we didn't have much ammunition--we just tried to talk them out of prescribing antibiotics--but eventually we started seeing specialists, and got better information...
recently, however, she has had a relapse of major proportions.
but if junk food is all you have access to, you keep stuffing your face with it.
however, we recently heard from a  nutritionist that large does of gammalinoleic acid can actually hinder brain  functioning, which scared us so much that we stopped it altogether.
from: anil subject: adrenal system/  (was:hello) lynn, craniosacral therapy () can help in restoring all the hormonal  functions.
my eczema is the worst there right now.
you know, i am really wondering if it's not (also) due to the homeopathic remedy.
royce subject: - egyptian cotton  sheets flannel sheets seem softer to the touch but they still make me a little  itchy.
well, in the good old days, ointments did have fewer ingredients than creams.
date: 5 feb 1997 15:36:55 from: rita subject: child eczema i'm glad to report that my expedition helped my jodi a whole lot.
then i could not eat enough to maintain my weight while breastfeeding, and then he tells me to cut out foods that represent about 90% of my calories.
donna is right; if people have problems with your eczema, let them deal  with it.
i agree that habit and self control have little to do with scratching.
sometimes i guess  breastfeeding isn't always the best for baby!
then, the aveeno oatmeal bath... a disaster.
and yes, i know my scratching is probably keeping him awake at night as much as it does me.
it seems that in combination with certain other medications, which were not specified in the article, terfenadine can lead to heart rhythm problems.
as you can see, i'm sold on the idea!
i don't know why but with all the vitamins/antihistamines that i take, i'm glad that i don't gag.
i know things will get easier when  juliet has passed her terrible two and jodi's immune system gets stronger.
most of the designer brands include egyptian cotton.
another thought... test your water, chlorine, bromine and possible metals can be an irritant.
i'll let you know if it works.
from: karen subject: childhood eczema it is a good book..
today, katie does break out in hives or itchy rashes when she is exposed to animal dander, but has very few of the problems that bonnie has had to live with for most of her life.
evening primrose oil & e moms/dads -reply hang in there moms, i can remember my mom saying to me when i was young with my e "i would gladly take your place if i could".
i have a friend who's a homeopath, so i asked her what might be good to use, and she suggested those remedies, so i tried them both together.
but since she hates lying on her belly or being in the crawling position, there are times she can't find anything to support herself to move around.
i'm a little confused what to blame the clearing on.
gotta go, off to the chiro.
when blisters show up on eczematic skin, topical antibiotic helps to stop infection from getting out of hand.
i tried it on a few items; many of the  "official" ones (eucerin, lac-hydrin, aveeno, eurax etc.) are there,  but the "alternative" health-food store ones (simicort, herpacine)  are not.
not on a baby (my opinion).
i am so grateful for the prednisone/antibiotics 1-2 punch that seems to re-set my internal computer, and allows me to feel in control again with what i have learned to identify as a "normal" level of skin irritation for me; a certain amount of rash, open sores, dryness, itchiness, etc.
heather- for all people who ask terribly personal and  none-of-their-business questions, i would respond, "why in the world would  you want to know that?"
my theory about my body is that after 20 years of using topical steroids,  and 6 weeks of using oral ones last summer (to combat the flare i caused by  quitting the topicals cold turkey), my liver wanted to speak its mind and did  so through my skin.
the pharmacist suggested switching to a hydrocorozone mix with a cetaphil base.
but no problems so far (she had several ear infections until she was two but now can blow her nose and has never has another).
and i went 18 years without any e symptoms and now i have it again
it's just that jodi and her eczema gets more attention at times.
to get to the same point.
what ever dress or medication you choose, i think it is wise to have one stock phrase for those who comment on your skin.
if i can explain to him that i want very much to stop scratching, but need  to find a way to do it that i can live with, as he needed to do with his  weight, then i believe he will understand.
try to set up the situation so that you have lots of little reminders that you're happy to be taking this step.
i then had to go have  it removed which was real pleasant.
we still try to avoid those  foods, though.
in the past she recommended euphrasia when my eyes kept watering for no apparent reason, and that worked really well.
steroids scare me alot and we are trying all new things we've been reading about here.
i am one of the many people that react to the lanolin in baby oil but usually only on my face, it gets red and puffy.
jojoba oil is very expensive,  but some health food places sell it in bulk, and you don't need very much.
then we  slowly added them back in, except for dairy, eggs, peanuts, and corn, which he  has an obvious reaction to.
we went through a bottle of the stuff, but never noticed any change, and quit.
using eucerin after bath time, he likes the  rub down also.
i don't think so at penny's or sears.
all i know is i am thrilled... something is working!
because of this, the zinc oxide ointments (with a mineral oil base) bother me.
often there are cross-allergies between these foods.
another pep talk on the health benefits of very low fat vegan cookery.
date: 28 feb 1997 12:07:09 from:
the first time we went in his skin was so bad they drew blood and sent it off for tests to milk peanut etc... (the biggies).date: 28 feb 1997 21:12:36 from: wendy subject: allergies & e royce, i know exactly what you mean.
he then tested positive to potatoes and soy,  but his last test came up negative.
so that's the basic information.
date: 17 feb 1997 12:56:17 from: david subject:
in this way i was able to keep nursing her.
it's fragrance free and has a nice greasy feel.
i find that having the freedom to do whatever i need to do from using my teeth, a plastic pen top, etc works the best for me.
detergent-less disks kim asked me about the clothes washing disks.
my mother always has a new theory about why it flares up, and other people ask why it hasn't gone away, etc.
my trick is another game--i stick my thumb in my mouth, suck on it a second, then pull it out and scream, then laugh.
date: 27 feb 1997 13:45:55 from: sue subject: epo, food allergies we've been using evening primrose oil on isaac (now 21 months) for almost a year.
i agree that there are worse things... diseases, etc (much worse things).
we found a homeopathic cream that we are going to try.
our dr. never said nursing caused e (i nursed just 5 and 1/2 mos) but  daniel was always broke out.
no systemic antibiotic or steroid was needed, else, it would have contradicted her herbal treatment.
date: 11 feb 1997 10:09:58 from: royce subject: scalp thanks to everyone who gave recommendations for the scalp problem i'm experiencing.
date: 24 feb 1997 15:30:55 from: alex subject: eczema!!
4ns sudocrem is on the shelves of most pharmacies in the uk and is also  available in supermarkets and cut price "drug stores".
you'll get through this...
debbi went one step further than i by using a chiropractor.
date: 21 feb 1997 13:57:49 from: jolie  subject:
i hope it's the right move for jodi.
per my contact at phytopharm, information about zemaphyte is sent out to drs in canada when requested.
now you need to find the  right time to talk to your husband about how he can help you.
or we'd have to hold his hands, and get into one of  those "counseling sessions" that i described in my other posting.
if i have to take any medication i was told to take acidophilus because it helps to build up the friendly bacteria that the antibiotics kill.
he never gave me any problems going back and forth from breast and bottle.
i started flax seed oil yesterday.
after reading so much about other parents flighting their baby's eczema, i would like to voice some of my techniques i have used to help my now 20 months baby (btw, he has had eczema since birth).
the last time i went dancing, one of my partners backed away when he felt my hands (strategically bandaged!) and said "i have to ask... is that contageous?"
but since that time i have had no hay fever or significant allergies, and i used to have pills and steroid inhaler-the works.
bless you all... hope some of what i've shared is helpful in some little way.
i have tried a few of the large dept stores.
has anyone here tried l-lysine or heard about this study?
it is usually  found with the babycare products as it is used for napkin/nappy/diaper rash.
the only time i double rinse is when i accidentally add too much detergent.
signs they looked for  were: eczema (alraedy obvious); ear cracks (where his ear lobe meets his  head--a pretty constant crack there); creased eyelids (instead of just one fold  in his eyelid, there were always a couple, both top and bottom);
this was suggested by our doctor, and is hard for me to do because i grew up  being constantly cold (for economic reasons) and have a big emotional reaction  to cold.
also, have you thought about the chicken pox vacine?
her solid food only  include pear, apple, rice, carrot, yam, very lean pork, chinese leafy green and  rice cereal.
it comes as powder in a capsule, so it was easy  to give him--just sprinkled it on his applesauce.
i rented an industrial breast pump when my milk first came in and when we needed to go out and jodi's still sleeping, i pumped it out for later use.
date: 13 feb 1997 09:35:00 from: gary subject: glycerin that's interesting, because glycerin is one of the few things my skin will tolerate.
body and face seems to caused by food allergies (from internal) whereas arms, legs from dust ..etc (from external source).
when you get overwhelmed, post another message like you did, that's what  we're here for.
date: 18 feb 1997 19:57:31
you know how i  scratch in the night?
i've been quite concerned that i've had my daughter on such a repetitive diet, albeit mild and bland foods for her to digest.
i would also recommend  that when you clean him, clean him thoroughly.
we went through a bottle of the stuff, but never  noticed any change, and quit.
from: patsy subject: eczema digest let me reiterate a cure i found for my daughter's cradle cap: head & shoulders shampoo.
so i don't think the drying effect is real important for me) but it might help you to get away from the oily meds.
the ingredients are: water, urea 5%, sorbitol, glyceryl stearate, lactic acid, isopropyl palmitate, octyl palmitate, stearyl alcohol, stearic acid, ceteareth-25, ceteareth-6, peg-40 jojoba oil, quaternium-15, menthylbenzethonium chloride and edta.
evening primrose oil & e moms/dads hi everyone, i'm sure the e moms and dads can relate to this story -- i'm sorry
i figure that i am allergic to some sort of petroleum derivitive in the cream.
at 32 years old, my husband and i moved to a new house to start our new family.
if not, he said  something that i noted immediately -- "we'll just have to call it eczema,  and you'll just have to live with it".
also, i am ready a pretty good book call "allergies...
it is made by the sween corporation, n. mankato, mn 56001.
regarding the chiro: did your chiropractor describe isaac's condition to you in a visit-by-visit basis?
but since i was warned by the dr about such a reaction, i was prepared to take on the shock.
even when i was a child, my parents built a new home and i completely cleared up.
i didn't gag for some reason.
anyways, a way around this is to have the sleeves made out of lace -- it will give you the coverage you seek, yet be cool in the summer.
that was when i threw the towel in and took him to my homeopathic md.
they had to send blood to a special clinic.
my chemistry isn't great, but if glycerin is one of those substances that draws water to itself (hydrophilic?) from the air, then it must also drag water out of any other surface it's in contact with, in this case the skin.
date: 14 feb 1997 11:51:05 from: mella subject: eczema & wedding dress: need support!
you might ask your pharmacist if s/he can order it; my dermatologist suggested it to me.
i should have paid more attention to the class on osmosis!
we used a product called "pancreatin," and
although the quality of some might be better than others, i think they are probably all going to be of the same general philosophy.
i try to put these pieces together and still couldn't make sense of what  i've noted.
i have my fingers crossed, fully expecting this beast to rear its head again, but at least i have hope now.
then, starting on the 3rd week, her eczematic skin turned from red-inflamed-hard-weepy-acne-like to soft and dry.
now my philosophy (this week, anyway) is to use drugs for an emergency but to still continue all prevention measures and keep pursuing original cause(s).
if my mother had had the  intelligence to handle the emotional aspects i think i would have made major  improvement.
date: 27 feb 1997 15:18:59 from: shanon subject:
the mush idea i'd stumbled on already, what i'd done is mix 1 measure of corn flour with 2 measures of boiling water and a dash of walnut oil, then bake in the oven for about half an hour, then cut up in cubes.
sue and faith-----our first dr. said of daniel's bad skin----he just has eczema, like his dad.
i was kind of concerned about it  being strong and burning his raw spots.
i use mineral oil to take my make-up off at night or as a "night creme".
aveeno powder is 100% colloidal oatmeal.
but if she's really itchy the antihistimine doesn't do  a thing--she'll still wake up all night.
i used to take it religiously and i will probably start that again because i think it's helpful.
this really gets frustrating.
she has no diaper rash from her poo which may suggest undigested food and she has very good appetite.
so far, we haven't been able to pinpoint what causes it.
date: 20 feb  1997 13:26:22 from: shelley subject: patsy & issac as sue described her son isaac, who scratches when he is frustrated, i  realized that i too learned this habit in infancy and never got over it.
like someone else on the list suggested, i think you have to do what works for you.
date: 24 feb 1997 12:16:06 from: linda subject: eczema digest
our dr. never said nursing caused e (i nursed just 5 and 1/2 mos) but daniel was always broke out.
in the last couple of weeks, we have noticed a change in isaac's skin--i've even wondered if he even has eczema anymore.
good luck!date: 10 feb 1997 10:58:21 from: kim subject: eczema & wedding dress: need support!
well, in the good old days, ointments  did have fewer ingredients than creams.
date: 4 feb 1997 11:36:03 from: killeen subject: antibacterial lotion & soap-shelley i hate to buy things and then not like them.
thank you for bringing the ingredient list to our attention!
and of course, my skin hasn't looked that good  since!
tomatoes, potatoes and peppers are in the  deadly nightshade family.
date: 7 feb 1997 17:59:35 from: anil subject: scalp royce, i've had this same problem.
this game keeps both girls happy and they both have my attention.
tomatoes, potatoes and peppers are in the deadly nightshade family.
maybe i'll get some of that to make ocean water to soak my hands in.
date: 14 feb 1997 10:18:34
the press releases are at: http://www.newspage.com/newspage/info/d20/d10/d50/public.pre/public.pre/pub lic.pre/public/a.p0113173.100.prw75100.htm and http://www.newspage.com/newspage/info/d20/d10/d50/public.pre/public.pre/pub lic.pre/public.pre/public.pre/public/a.p0107075.800.prw75100.htm i would like to get to the bottom of this because i take triludan for hay fever in the summer, and my mother takes it all the time for allergic rhinitis.
he said that people with eczema do not have much if any gag reflex.
i thought i might at least smell decent!
date: 21 feb 1997 11:27:50 from: lynn subject: nature's biotics christopher, your supplement list included nature's biotics.
the dr. still says that even though the allergies make the e worse, he will still always have some problem with it since my husband has e and is allergic to dogs and cats.
royce subject: allergies & e hi.
regarding evening primrose oil: i took it for 3 yrs for fibromyalgia and severe pms.
julia saw pedi gi--finally!
i think i need to sit down with him and tell him  that his blunt "stop that scratching" doesn't help me stop.
i discovered this while using desowen lotion- after using it on my face &  other areas of my body for over a year.
date: 6 feb 1997 22:09:16 from: ann subject: scalp royce, i have had good results with t-gel shampoo by neutragena (leave it on scalp for a few minutes before rinsing, and do a second application if you have time).
i think it was linda who talked about the guilt feelings of passing her eczema on to her kid.
("bag balm" is the brandname of the green can... )
she's also a great source of advice on isaac.
and i didn't expect much more since we  already got julia under control once ourselves.
4 cups grain flakes, usually oats 2 cups oat bran 1 cup ground flax seeds 1 cup ground milk thistle seeds mix, store in the fridge, and  let soak in hot water for half an hour before eating.
it's good that you've recognized the problem.
the herbs (from my research) are quite lethal.
for those of us who have often wished we could go out with a paper bag over our heads (and for everyone else, too), i heartily recommend reading lucy grealy's book autobiography of a face -- her story of growing up with a facial deformity.
the pill form is available over the counter now but its effectiveness has not been proven.
occasionally indigestion may occur.
you're right, yams are not in the nightshade family.
i wish they could grow faster.
i  might also suggest that "sun bathing" be used as well.
her formula is alimentum which has no milk protein or milk sugar or soy.
date: 7 feb 1997 20:29:11 from: shelley subject: update i am doing well using tea tree oil soap (from the body shop) once a day.
everybody i know  who's gotten married has worried about their wedding being ruined by something.
in my case, i can't use the immuran because i have a liver problem, but i wish that i could try it.
so far, we haven't been able to  pinpoint what causes it.
i for one will not be taking any more triludan.
date: 21 feb 1997 13:59:40
he said long term use of steroid drops (which i have been using for the infections) can eventually cause glaucoma.
egyptian cotton refers to the fiber it is made from.
god has been my source of strength through  this time.
is it safer to use huge amounts of a low potency steriod ointment or tiny amounts of a highly potent one?
i noticed that when i thought my eczema  was some horrible, demonic thing, i rarely if ever dated (and incidentally, it  flared up more!).
since jodi doesn't like to lie on her belly, and seems to like standing up like everyone else in the family, one of our favorite games is that while i sit in the center of a couch, i ask jodi to get a toy from one end of the couch and give it to me.
already his face is looking much better --  thank god!
we have had success with lamb, turkey, butternut squash, baby food squash, prunes, peas and spinach.
sue also mentioned something that she had done with isaac (and i note many of the other parents on here are doing), where she breaks him away from scratching, but in a loving, helpful way.
does anyone know who manufactures sudocrem?
good luck with your wedding plans and remember that there is at least one other person out there who can totally empathize.
it looked awful and i was in tears big time!
they predict it based on family histories of allergies.
the trick is finding the next specialist to move to...
it's complicated because you have to arrange the foods by food groups--ie, all "nightshades" on the same day (potatoes, peppers, etc), so it can get tough to figure out what goes on what day.
simple, steamed basmati rice and vegetables carrots, asparagus and broccoli, we have recently introduced chicken.
because of that, even though i eliminated other suspect foods, there never was any profound change in her eczema.
he will get better on his own.
if anyone else has used it, please chime in.
from: debi subject: to: e baby moms i feel overwhelmed, there are quite a few of us who have babies with severe  e. debbie, rita, jolie, karen and more.
the long leafy greens are only available in china town.
linda, you may want to ask your doctor about neosporin.
all i know is jodi likes cool and well ventilated places like our home.
the body can eventually heal  itself if it can get out of the cycle long enough to "catch up".
my doctor raved about this stuff because it is weak enough to be used on the face.
the ophthalmologist reckoned that the general set of symptoms asthma, eczema, hay fever were not uncommon in people who suffer from keratoconus, and he implied some unknown root cause which probably leads to all of them.
she was raw, red, oozing, bleeding on her  face and it started spreading more to neck, wrists, legs, and elbows.
my heart also went out to rita.
let's get organized, lets spend this  week listing foods that work.
but i've heard these are controversial (and possibly connected to mad cow  disease).
brian started with e at 5 or 6 weeks old... and i cried and cried several times in the beginning blaming myself for "giving" this disease to him.
from: patsy subject: psorelief a friend called to tell me she'd caught the last few seconds of an md on  television talking about psorelief.
but my doctor  says that it's not possible (i think it's possible for me to be allergic to  anything).
i've used it (or amped up my topical drugs) for less honorable occasions, if ya know what i mean!
i notice that is when she'll start  scratching, more like out of desperation and not because she needs to.
has anyone else been told that?
i'm glad you found out what  the hives were from.
but i think we  can to lots of things to attack the problem enough so that the body can take  over and heal itself.
these do not then get red and angry--they just  disappear.
we might start this up again, and have a referral to  someone with a good reputation.
it looks so much more  "allergic" than it used to.
how bad is your eczema?
it upsets me to think that by  nursing, i was causing his eczema, but it's probably true.
we've been out of that for a few weeks, and i have noticed that since it  being neglected, the eczema has worsened just a bit.
you can choose a tone of voice to suit your mood and/or the status of the questioner.
she's learning to walk holding onto things around her.
have you looked into the dust mite issue?
i tried it on a hunch after having dealt with all the useless salves and ointments the md had prescribed.
date: 20 feb 1997 12:42:35 from: ken subject: leaky gut the leaky gut concept has been talked about several times here.
also, i had to take a blood test once a month to make sure that kidneys were ok.
i use the periactin when he has a bad flare up, it does help.
date: 20 feb 1997 14:29:44 from: linda subject: eczema digest
all my returns on the vaccine on the internet are in french.
chinese herbal treatment - was on the phone last friday with dr. mary p. sheehan who is now in pittsburgh.
the dictionary says that "colloidal" is a substance made up of  tiny insoluble, nondiffusible particles that remain suspended in a medium of  different matter.
if the fda has found something new i'd certainly like to know.
she agreed, and the whole process was much more low- key than i expected (no attempts on her part to find the "cause" of my e., etc.).
i hope the central air is really the culprit.
body oil we use dye-free detergent to wash our cloths, and rinse twice, use dove soap to hand wash my son's cloths and sheet, his allergist thinks i'm crazy, but i'll continue to do that as long as i have time.
the correct way we found is to put the socks on first before any pyjamas (one piece body suit in our case).
i've also drank the stuff but didn't see a noticeable difference.
if it works for you, great!
they usually dry up and go away in 2-3 days.
several doctors have told me to use polysporin instead.
before this, she never had  a clear day.
i bought a pack of gluten-free bread mix, but the stuff is horrible.
anybody got any ideas on how i can  teach my husband to do that???
i know women who, for religious regions, never wear  sleeveless garments.
now, i am the worst i have ever and can barely stand to be in my own skin.
is this wishful thinking?date: 28 feb 1997 13:44:10 from: tina subject:
date: 1 feb 1997 09:49:53
i am staying away from wheat,  dairy and eggs, too, but here is my cereal.
the riddle of the itch here's something i've pondered for most of my lifetime.
onzihmes journies frangaises de pharmacovigilance, lyon, 27-29 novembre 1989.
if she  takes to the formula (which i doubt) they'll give us a prescription for it  which will just involve a $5 co-payment for us.
water for each egg (add flour to dry ingredients and water to wet; don't mix the soy and water together by themselves, because you'll just get a brown paste!)
the force of the scratching seems to be the only thing that equals the force of  the frustration.
none of us would have selected this condition if given  our druthers, but this is what we've got.
date: 22 feb  1997 14:37:13 from: shelley subject: what's next faith: you have already have some answers to your own question, as noted  above.
everytime i went to go shopping for a dress my skin would decide to flare  up and become a lovely shade of sunburnt looking red (really bright against  those white dresses).
at least eczema isn't life-threatening.
and she nurses, so i changed my diet even more--no dairy, wheat, peanut butter, potatoes, or oatmeal.
the recipes are pretty generic, and include lots of canned foods, frozen juices, and vegetables (of course)...
"eat more, weigh less" - dean ornish, md.
since our return, nothing has worked in her favor.
sometimes i can skip one day but only when my skin is in good condition.
right now i am pretty good but a couple of months ago i was covered head to toe and could barely sleep, work or do anything.
i am throwing  it out as i have not seen seafood being mentioned here.
just a note to heather: my niece go married two years ago.
otherwise they are ignorant about what is helpful and  what isn't.
also, a vitamin regimen would help sufficiently.
sometimes this condition makes me feel so alone in the world and it is nice to know that there are others that can empathize.
it was $45 for the first visit and $35 for the rest.
not knowing she was allergic to soy, we had been giving her soy toddler formula.
daniel has broke out after wearing an outfit that was new at christmas and it was washed before he wore it...
by word of mouth we have heard of things that have worked for some people... be forwarned...
i mentioned a week or two ago that i was going to push my dermatologist in this direction, and i have had a start down that road.
as i am writing this, i was absent mindedly scratching my leg, and now it is bleeding.
she smiled a lot and interacted with people around her.
thanks, group!date: 19 feb 1997 16:49:24 from: christopher subject:
just do the best you can do and keep talking about your fears with your loved  ones.
my chemistry isn't great, but if  glycerin is one of those substances that draws water to itself (hydrophilic?)
and  sure enough we had just had a horrible night's sleep, which was the beginning  of a bad 3-day cycle.
or we'd have to hold his hands, and get into one of those "counseling sessions" that i described in my other posting.
does it hurt, itch, look red or can it be seen or felt at all?
this took a couple of months of use to clear up, but i haven't had any of the eczema return and it is the middle of winter around here and the rest of my skin is flaring up from the dry, cold air.
i tried on my own with the little homeopathic medicinal pellets you put under the tongue a few times a day.
i really do hope that nothing else develops over time.
here's some of the basic information you need to know: they will teach you how to give yourself a daily injection of gamma  interferon, which they said is a synthetic version of what is normally produced  by the body.
but it has powerful  results, including a decrease in tension/stress.
that's why i go to the homeopath.
from: david subject: triludan  (terfenadine) i don't think my "drugs for every occasion" book exactly says  terfenadine is safe.
though, if you are lucky, the condition should clear up as he gets older.
the problem with holding him is that he's not  forced to acknowledge us.
it can be a little tricky to fit a keratoconus patient with contact lenses, but it is almost always possible.
but yes, what is this miracle cure?date: 21 feb 1997 10:05:54 from: sue subject:
nizoral did help for a while, but then stopped working.
i've always just used baby oil, but it doesn't really seem to help that much.
daniel just sits on the  floor, pulls his pant legs up as far as he can, pulls his socks off and  scratches til he is almost bleeding.
in  your list of foods you mentioned carrots, not in our camp.
healing psoriasis: the natural  alternative i am thinking of purchasing the book.
he said take him off everything.
i guess kind of a softer form of scratching since a 16 mo old can't understand softer.
does anyone else notice this?
date: 20 feb 1997  13:03:12 from: tina subject:
try to set up the situation so  that you have lots of little reminders that you're happy to be taking this  step.
then i could not eat enough to maintain my weight while breastfeeding, and then  he tells me to cut out foods that represent about 90% of my calories.
when i got married i got on prednisone for it.
heather, first of all congratulations.
just this morning i made buckwheat barley pancakes: as long as we're talking about breakfast, i've been eating an immune support cereal for 2 or 3 months that i think has kicked me back into health.
but i also started a diet  change then.
also, with wedding dress-shopping in particular, there may be emotional baggage aggravating the e. (been there!).
speaking from experience, i believe breast milk is the best for babies.
i guess it's a  good thing he was used to having a bottle.
my derm doctor told me that scalp eczema is different from other eczema in that the scalp needs to be kept dry (not oily).
we are using a spray on her scalp, na-pca non oily with aloe vera, from the local coop made by twin lab in ny.
there are books available to help figure out how to divide up the food groups, or i could let people know what we did, if anyone's interested.
i weaned her on drs advice and put her on a soy formula.
i use lotion when i shower in the morning before work
adrenal system/ (was:hello) lynn, craniosacral therapy () can help in restoring all the hormonal functions.
however, she still worries  that her wedding was ruined because her mother-in-law used coloring in the  wedding cake batter and the inside of the cake was pink and blue instead of  mauve and green like she wanted.
those of us who've had eczema all our lives remember the hope that we would grow out of it, and i hate to be a spoil sport and say "don't get your hopes too high" because i remember how that hope kept me alive for 14 years.
that was an excellent suggestion to get the other child involved with caring for the one with eczema.
if so, what can they share?date: 18 feb 1997 19:57:31 from: tina subject:
if needed, however, corneal transplantation for keratoconus carries about a 90%-ish success rate - it is one of the diseases that we do pretty well with when performing transplants.
truth be known i would rather it is the itch, my son is now at the point he can say "i itch" i like having the communication even if it is 2:00 a.m.
date: 21 feb 1997 09:54:41 from: kay subject: eczema digest
a web search should yield more information than i can give you off the top  of my head.
lubriderm does not feel nice on the skin.
my dermatologist asked me to stop nursing last week  asap ...
it was my husband and i who pursued seeing an allergist and seeing  if anything was actually causing it or at least making it worse than it really  had to be.
cetaphil/sun we have already stopped using the cetaphil.
keep your hair  very short while using it.
in spite of keeping her off of her allergic foods  (tomatoes, chocolate,peaches) her eczema never cleared up.
the author does not speak at all about children or infants so i just use common sense, ask health food store prof.
it can do nothing but make the skin worse.
(lovely lamb casserole tonight, yummy yummy.)
4ns sudocrem is on the shelves of most pharmacies in the uk and is also available in supermarkets and cut price "drug stores".
one store told me that they have "sheets with all kinds of designs"... !
date: 11 feb 1997 10:09:58  from:
the more you care about it, the more others will care about it.
just a few traces if you know where to look.
i'm not quite ready to give up my future for a comfortable present.
after investing a million dollars and hours in vitamins, blood tests  and every other possible natural cure, i think they are it.
i will have to ask him where else so that others could check on the possibility of doing this closer to home.
my heart goes out to all of you who have shared here.
royce subject: scalp thanks to everyone who gave recommendations for the scalp problem i'm  experiencing.
one more thought: he didn't happen to be on any antihistamines in his system at the time of testing, did he?
every time we saw her over those years, it was inevitable that she would, at some point in the visit, bring up the matter of his weight, either with him directly or through me.
i really attribute this to noticing her skin condition on the day she was born, recognizing the similarity and acting on it, in spite of the well-meaning advice of my care-givers.
.. it will be interesting to find out what exactly he's allergic to.
my dermatologist put me on prednisone last month because the eczema was so severe.
plus treating the misalignment.
date: 10 feb 1997 19:53:23 from: christopher subject:  eczema & wedding dress: need support!
but i've been doing everything else  since then too (diet, colloidal minerals, chiro.).
it has been more than 4 years and there is no word when she'll get the green light from the fda.
date: 20 feb 1997 11:32:45 from: susan subject: child eczema
hello again his allergies sound exactly like mine, and i'm 15.
in order to keep bacteria from getting resistant.
so, i think  your doctor is right about this one.
i encourage you to select the wedding gown that you'd feel most comfortable with and not worry about what friends and relatives think.
you might enjoy cornmeal mush (polenta) for breakfast; just get some water boiling, and add cornmeal, stirring quickly with a whisk until it thickens.
he talks about pizza or hotdogs but never offers to have a fit over not having them.
brian's derm was quite blunt -- she wanted me to stop  nursing that very day!
obviously you have to be in the bay area to even consider doing this, but  he said there are other places doing the study.
i'd say that eczema will be the least of your problems once you're married, but then i'm divorced so my outlook might be a shade jaded!date: 10 feb 1997 12:55:45 from: donna subject: eczema & wedding dress: need support!
he says she's doing amazingly well, that kids often respond/heal much faster than adults.
she had a disastrous  itching fit in the car yesterday.
but i am a signed up chocaholic...
i  guess i should be smart enough to test new products in one spot before putting  it all over
keratoconus is a deformity of the cornea (the eye's surface layer).
i've called everywhere in town looking for sudocrem, which was a zinc oxide  preparation mentioned in the eczema faq sheet, but to no avail.
i went with the pharmacists suggestion and within a week i have almost entirely cleared up my eczema.
she has some good insights, and experiences i resonated with.
i think an eczema patient should do what makes them feel the best and bathing with bath oil is my salvation when my skin is bad.
jodi developed full body contact dermatitis.
date: 25 feb 1997 07:03:08 from: debi subject: to royce royce, thank you for your long message to us e. moms.
date: 1 feb 1997 08:16:48 from: steve subject: "all" non-irritating detergent my dermatologist recommended using all's free and clear (hypoallergenic) version.
as we all know, and you would think all doctors would know, we all react differently to things.
it seemed hannah definately got worse towards autumn (when it first starts to get cool here, although we have had a very mild winter).
i've used aloe vera topically and have found its soothing & healing properties to be helpful.
thanks be to god that there are actually some beautiful females my age out there who don't care that much about looks (and subsequently, will date me).
date: 19 feb 1997 11:01:31 from:  ann subject: hives susan, what you describe on your son's skin sounds like hives to me also.
and they are actually suggesting now that maybe he will be part  of the 60% of baby eczema sufferers who will outgrow it.
date: 3 feb 1997 14:19:22 from: heather subject: ultravate and diet the ultravate i have here is manufactured by westwood-squibb and contains halobetasol propionate .05% ; i assume that it's pretty powerful because it can clear up my lips in one application.
having our daughter tested for allergies was the best thing we ever did for her.
thru some kind of  test?
i also give jodi a multi vitamin drop by twinlab but only when she doesn't eat right.
are you the one that said earler that yams are not in the nightshade family, he eats them a lot (not sweet potatoes).date: 3 feb 1997 16:02:11 from: marilyn subject: recipe, pls/red wine i have been a vegetarian, and occasional vegan, for years.
after years in a zen training center and a major diet change, my sister now has good control over her skin, and she is very articulate about the emotional hurts that her scratching helped keep at bay.
leaky gut the leaky gut concept has been talked about several times here.
i've been waiting to say this because i don't want to encourage a relapse by bragging.)
i eventually went back to just using ointment on the bad spots (i have absolutely no oil in my scalp
gagging i am not sure where that theory comes from but my gag reflex is so strong i cannot even hold a pen in my mouth without gagging!
date: 20 feb 1997 14:12:02 from: david subject: triludan (terfenadine)
date: 21 feb 1997  15:52:03 from: heather subject:
we are  sleeping now though and she looks great so whatever the reason, i'm thrilled!
when my eczema is really active, the medicine, while it does help, doesn't calm it down the way it looks right now.
by the way, i am the leaky gut person, my gastroenterologist diagnosed his as a birth defect.
the dr 's cure is some herb which lowers the "fire" in their body.
it got to a point where he avoided seeing her at all, simply to keep her from harassing him about it.
we got it because the dr. said he would be a mess if he got chicken pox on top to the eczema, just a thought i know some people don't like that vaccine.
we don't know whether this has helped or not.
but she said she thought that babies confronted with such terrible itchiness needed their parents to step in and stop them--they just weren't strong enough to help themselves.
so i am going back to bath every third night, get the cream on fast and use warm water.
another reason i feel that i need to bathe everyday is to get rid of the bacteria that i think can build up with the use of all the heavy emollients and creams i use-
you are right to remember that you don't know how  your skin will be that day.
i had no sleep that night at all, i was itching so badly.
donna is right; if people have problems with your eczema, let them deal with it.
date: 26 feb 1997 19:23:42 from: shanon subject:
i haven't used the other formulas.
even the water from the shower burned.
impatient, aren't i?
so, about a year ago, we did a while lot of things, which have definitely improved isaac's skin from being very itchy, red, and cracking over a large percentage of his body, to today's cycle of flares and clear-ups on his legs and arms: was your son tested for soy?
so we had a wheat-related day, a quinoa day, an amaranth day, and a day of no grains.
i will never forget how important it made me feel to know that i was capable of helping someone else and also instilled a value in helping others which is a large part of my character.
even with insurance, it adds up.
especially at the end it has children with allergies being interviewed.
this works especially well in public places if said in a slightly louder than normal voice.
and i hope your baby is doing o.k.date: 28 feb 1997 21:31:21 from: melley subject: exercise, sweating, zinc, allergies, etc.
in spite of keeping her off of her allergic foods (tomatoes, chocolate,peaches) her eczema never cleared up.
i spoke to dr. siebenlist at 415-476-4701 in san francisco.
i read their  advertising on the internet and it sounds like a miracle; but then again, it is  their own advertising.
i am super sensitive about my eczema and when it's bad i feel disgusting.
i assume it's different (that fraction must be okay for my skin).date: 26 feb 1997 15:19:52 from: tina subject:
it seems to be that way due to a combination of camille albane deep cleansing shampoo and dandruff controlling shampoo (both avon products) and pantene shampoo/conditioner for dandruff.
we have almost entirely organic cotton bedding and clothing, including diapers.
i like the fact that it is an antiseptic and a moiturizer together, since i need both.
and he's so sensitive now... just getting  excited during play will bring welts out on his face and legs.
but occasionally i've had throat swelling and have needed medical  help.
today is day 4 and she is better so far.
both my daughters react to lanolin.
it is the best i've found and
homeopathic routes can just take an awfully long time sometimes, especially for a baby who can't speak for itself.
date: 16 feb 1997 06:00:23
my eczema looks great right now - no angry, itching patches, no cracks i have had to glue just a few rough patches of skin.
being part of the care-taking doesn't seem to appeal to her  anymore.
the great news was  that he weighed 20 lbs, 15 oz--a gain of a whole pound.
from: debi subject: to: e baby moms i feel overwhelmed, there are quite a few of us who have babies with severe e. debbie, rita, jolie, karen and more.
i was able to get a beautiful one year old portrait for her birthday!
in your list of foods you mentioned carrots, not in our camp.
several of my siblings suffer from  rhinitis.
very utilitarian, well tested recipes... but this and the leneman book use higher fat ingredients, and lots of nuts.
i know that backrubs help daniel, too.
the problem is that you must take  it the way it says, or it will cease to have an effect.
2 more major flare ups within the past 10 days, both  happened when we were dining out in a restaurant which was overheated and  crowded.
( she has been suffering from e since she was 3 weeks old and will be 11 months in a week.)
date: 4 feb 1997 13:42:05 from: shelley subject: drug ingredients & prices
i don't want to always be trying to control this and never hunting for why it happens in the first place.
but it was as expected: topical prescription cortisone, bactroban (antiobiotic ointment), and a prescription antihitamine (atarax).
the first suggested vitamins he will not  chew.
even when i am constipated my eczema can flare (probably because the toxins are held in the body for too long (also related to leaky gut, i think).
four days off, fifth day, eat a lot of the suspected food.
it took the second  application, but she never had the problem again.
i only began using this stuff when i gave up on finding anything else to help (the tar preparations did nothing).
i have been hesitant for some reason to post vitamin regimen.
and just have a frank  discussion about the situation, what works and doesn't work, without blaming  each other for anything.
date: 18 feb 1997 23:53:12  from: christopher subject:
but i know they are usually used as the steamed veggies to go with soup noodles.
yes, we use vaseline on our daughter's skin.
it  seems that in combination with certain other medications, which were not  specified in the article, terfenadine can lead to heart rhythm problems.
date: 4 feb 1997 20:13:22 from: lorena subject: antibacterial lotion & soap my eczema covers both of my hands (but nowhere else).
i am not sure if you can do this with a toddler but  vitamin c gives me a lot of relief.
also, like you, i am wise enough to know that you cannot go around messing with heavy duty drugs without paying for it at some time down the road.
my skin seems to prefer ointment-types right now (aquaphor, zinc oxide, etc.)
she was raw, red, oozing, bleeding on her face and it started spreading more to neck, wrists, legs, and elbows.
anyway, i wonder how that ties in with eczema?date: 27 feb 1997 17:14:27 from: debbie subject: e.p. oil, food allergies i'm interested in the rotation diet!
i buy the vaseline brand of pure vaseline.
it is true everyone's e is different
but i'm giving it more time before i buy a large size.
so i am not trying to whine...
then i  started receiving this mailing list.
at  first we didn't have much ammunition--we just tried to talk them out of  prescribing antibiotics--but eventually we started seeing specialists, and got  better information...
when blisters show up on  eczematic skin, topical antibiotic helps to stop infection from getting out of  hand.
i've been  using j and j new sensitive skin formula baby shampoo
he hadn't really expected that.
i would also like to hear about the results of uva.
has anyone ever heard of desowen?
date: 14 feb 1997 10:18:34 from: kim subject: debbie and mac's mom???
i bet you'll look so good at your wedding, no one will even think about your eczema!date: 10 feb 1997 14:23:09 from: marilyn subject: eczema & wedding dress: need support!
these sessions seem to really help him.
hopefully you'll be able to get his eczema under control so he doesn't have to deal with it when he starts preschool.
looks like a sensation of bugs  crawling all over you.
i had to go to prednisone for the first time in my e. career.
and when we'd stop giving it to him, about two weeks later, he'd start to get worse.
date: 4 feb 1997 07:59:12 from: david subject:
the finding may help explain why urban living can aggravate skin ailments like dermatitis, which results in itchy, inflamed and scaly skin.
date: 14 feb  1997 11:18:19 from: jolie subject: julia saw pedi gi--finally!
date: 10 feb 1997 16:10:22 from: heather subject:  colloidal oatmeal thanks for the oatmeal tip.
if you don't already have a liquid form of colloidal trace minerals the one  i get is by "innovative natural products", brown bottle, 1 oz., 4  oz., and something like 7 oz., called colloidal multiple minerals.
but i think we can to lots of things to attack the problem enough so that the body can take over and heal itself.
my parents called me a "vampire."
if she takes to the formula (which i doubt) they'll give us a prescription for it which will just involve a $5 co-payment for us.
l'association ribosomes-fractions membranaires.
debbi and i have used this concept on our babies.
i suppose it is because so many people are probably allergic to many of these things...
when i was pregnant, my hormones went crazy (of  course!), and so did my eczema.
he goes around telling everyone about how his brother can't have peanuts.
(for my son who is  two) said childhood is the problem.
using eucerin after bath time, he likes the rub down also.
they haven't started yet because they haven't gotten approval from the ucsf review board, but they anticipate starting within the next few weeks.
but i don't use them anymore.
allow the kids to bring their natural playfulness into the experience.
cod liver oil (a & d supplement) (1250 i.u./130 i.u.) 1 nature's biotics caplet (500 mg)
eczema is just a part of who you are, and you are certainly more than  eczema (one would assume your beloved didn't make his decision to propose based  on how much you itch!).
i use curel unscented almost exclusively because it's glycerin-based, with no mineral oil.
the prednisone  did a great job
i also eat lots of dairy and peanut butter.
i began these products for a week and then again attempted to wean from prednisone.
that may help to build up julia's system too.
but occasionally i've had throat swelling and have needed medical help.
and they have to learn over time how it's supposed to feel on the inside, too.
so, i stopped it, and will do it at just bedtime for a bit longer---just in case it's helping at all.
wash all his bedding in superhot water once a week, including his stuffed  animals, pillow, and bumpers.
i also give ecchinacea-for-children and an herbal extract  drink to my kids to boost their immune system.
add on your successful foods, by the end of the week we can print one list and start testing new foods for our little ones.
it's really a shame these little children have to go through this!
ii know there are other things one could do, involving minerals and  vitamins.
i can't imagine why this simple concoction would be so much more effective than one of the over-the-counter creams, but it is.
it makes me wonder why they don't test things on each patient (especially people with such sensitive skin) before just prescribing things at random.
we were initially bathing her in warm water no soap every day, but that just aggravated things.
or the zinc formulation some others on this list have suggested... just a thought.
our allergist said there are chemicals in the clothes to make them hang nicely on the racks...
my observation is this: if you have an office job where you do not get truly dirty
my parents called me a  "vampire."
i forgot who suggested "why are you concerned about that?" , but i think it's perfectly brilliant.
bring ointment, get clean diaper, hold a bottle, etc.
i've been asked all of my life about mine, and it hurts sometimes (because it is so embarassing), but i've learned to deal with it (as you obviously have).
i'm getting married in august, and my grandmother has asked me if i would  like to have her make my dress.
for those of you using steroids, you shouldn't sweat this one - i don't think of steroids as causing keratoconus, but there is some association with atopy (asthma-eczema-hay fever).
or is  there some part that wouldn't work for you?"
if  something shows up, he'll see what he can do to help it.
now, i am the worst i have ever and can barely  stand to be in my own skin.
so what if the sales assistant is looking?
was this a birth defect, leaky gut?
i did find a couple of press releases from the manufacturers and everything is of course all right ;)
it is some psychological thing, i believe.
these days it's often replaced by one of its components, sorbitol (yes, the sweetener).
according to my chinese dr, that is the cause of their eczema.
once you are prepared with a simple comeback, you will be more relaxed and able to enjoy dress hunting and also the big day.
georgia clay is impossible to remove without ritual sacrifice to the deity in charge of laundry.. (a little humor there!)
it would almost  appear to me that i mark significant improvements on a weekly basis...  especially this last 3 weeks.
this is what has worked: what is sarna, is it an over the counter anti-itch, but not a steriod?
and the sheets are almost always over-sized and really nice.
turns out he probably has a viral infection (white blood cell count is up), which could be accounting for why he has so many hives lately.
i'm wondering if your husband has some bad habits it's hard for him  to break?
e moms & dads hi everyone-
i've never seen a yellow can... do you know who makes it, and what brandname it uses?
he does a little bit more each time.
what's next sue writes something that struck a nerve with me.
he said they didn't think it would get rid of eczema permanently  but would keep it under control (like insulin for diabetes).
date: 11 feb 1997 04:42:17 from: brigit subject:
i was going to try grinding some oatmeal in the food processor, but maybe i won't go through the bother.
date: 4 feb 1997 13:27:10 from: royce subject: childhood eczema i am so happy to hear that you're trying not to use drugs on your daughter.
he seemed to be happy that i figured out (or at lease i think i figured out) one of the culprits but he also seemed a little embarrassed (or maybe even mad).
the aveeno anti itch cream with calamine worked somewhat but the aveeno lotion caused her skin to get worse...
names most of you are probably familiar with.
my mother always told me how heartbreaking it was for her that i had eczema and not to itch it!...
i literally felt normal for the first time since i got eczema at 13 yrs old.
i think some of us with eczema  live somewhat parallel lives.
i use the periactin when he has a bad flare up, it does  help.
i  think it was by now vitamins.
i think patsy's given me the one angle that's going to help me help him  understand, though!
is it  safer to use huge amounts of a low potency steriod ointment or tiny amounts of  a highly potent one?
but i get anxious and i want to try to make my skin better right  away.
she said the doc was saying it was something new & effective for psorasis and eczema.
let's get organized, lets spend this week listing foods that work.
then a viral attack caused huge blisters over her lips and eczematic right cheek.
one health practitioner recommended bovine glandular supplements,
i would say he is ok now - at least he is not bloody in the morning - he still has his eczema on his hand/foot.
i'll just have to make sure i cut his nails as short as possible and hope for the best.
since everyone had one and i was always going somewhere i was never able to connect it.
i think patsy's given me the one angle that's going to help me help him understand, though!
my herbalist pals tell me milk thistle supports and repairs the liver.
they are not all to my taste, but for day-to-day cuisine, quite satisfying.
my only regret about the allergy testing is not having it done sooner.
specific  recommendations for diet and supplements and topical agents.
(for my son who is two) said childhood is the problem.
i read the suggestions to you from this list and really appreciated it.
shaklee basic-h is pretty neat on bad stains and it is non-toxic.
i've tried dhs zinc pyrithione shampoo, nizorol shampoo, tar shampoos & derma smooth (which is an oil based cortisone solution which, in the past, has helped the eczema on my skin).
did you start with a very small amount of foods (in terms of variety)?
i want to share with you information regarding a new moisturizing lotion i  have been using.
i'd say that eczema will be the least  of your problems once you're married, but then i'm divorced so my outlook might  be a shade jaded!
much of this regimen is not  simply to help the eczema, but to help my health in general (i don't eat what i  should).
note that seldane is an  antihistamine that is not supposed to make you sleepy, and the ketoconazole, i  assume, is an antibiotic (because the warning mentions that it is used to treat  skin infections).
anyways, a way around this is to have the sleeves made out of lace -- it  will give you the coverage you seek, yet be cool in the summer.
why not have a theme for your wedding then you can wear a dress that covers you and just say you like "traditional" or whatever.
but be aware of what a cooling sensation means for some of us.
they supply the soap dispensers at the hospital with hibiclens and it is murder on my eczema
longs clear liquid scalp relief anti-itch medicine.
it's main ingredient is iodine.
my fiance does this for me if i can't reach the itchy spot, and i find that putting something on it really does help.
has anyone heard of this  or tried it?
don't suppress how you feel.
from: tina subject: bad night-linda linda, i am so sorry you had such a bad night.
if i will do what i must to my diet, i believe i can rid myself of the problems that i even have now.
although both my midwives and her pediatrician assured me that she just had "heat rash", i knew she was displaying eczema and allergic reactions.
date: 3 feb 1997 13:27:43 from: wendy subject:
sometimes i just feel totally overwhelmed with the whole situation.
you are the one spending the money, if she indicates she has a problem with your skin condition, you indicate that you have enough of a problem with her attitude to consider taking your business elsewhere...
he almost always has a few on his face these days--isolated little raised  circles, whitish, that look like what a mosquito bite looks like in the first  minute or two after you get it.
i wanted to kill myself for letting all that happen to  her.
and i most definately have eczema as my skinless heels can testify to!date: 28 feb 1997 10:49:57 from: linda subject:
it would be enlightening for them if they could walk a mile in my shoes sometimes.
when her body temperature rises, her skin acts up and rashes develop  quickly, especially on her cheeks.
twice this has happened to me -- and this'll be my second dermatology appointment!
has anyone else heard about antihistamines causing long term problems?
i have the same type of situation with my family.
if not, you could put soy or rice milk in it, as you would with oatmeal.
i think the leaky guy syndrome is one example of a  cause--if substances are leaking into the wrong body cavities and causing  problems, then the body will manifest this problem with eczema, maybe.
first of all, we find eczema on different parts of the body signifies different causes.
my homeo-doc told me that - like mint - it just happened to be particularly potent and would overwhelm any less robust substance.
she also claims zemaphyte is tested to have the same efficacy as the decoction brewed using the traditional method and is not bitter at all.
i was able to get a beautiful one year old portrait for her  birthday!
the summers that i went swimming very  regularly were the ones that i had the least problems, if i could tolerate the  clorine.
it used to be a popular ingredient of many skin-care products, but its popularity has significantly gone downhill since it was found to irritate so many.
out of that, isaac developed a new "defense mechanism."
it  would be enlightening for them if they could walk a mile in my shoes  sometimes.
at least, that is what i have  noticed, though i am probably wrong, but at least that is my observation.
it's easy for my husband to say  "stop scratching", but he's not the one who is itchy!
can you elaborate a little on your personal experience with it.
strangely enough, my allergist never recommended zinc (which does quite  well), nor any of the vitamins i take.
if i go down in flames, so be it -- at  least i will have tried!
my mother used to tell me that some mark on my groin area was from the herpes infection, but now it is indistinguishable from other souvenirs.
i also cook her food from scratch.
it makes me  wonder why they don't test things on each patient (especially people with such  sensitive skin) before just prescribing things at random.
i hope it really turns out that daniel does't care about the  food differences.
date: 3 feb 1997 17:33:05 from: karen subject:
it hasn't given a bad reaction just not a nice feeling.
and while i'm at it, think i'll revive the fashion for wearing elegant gloves to a dance!date: 10 feb 1997 14:56:13 from: royce subject: eczema & wedding dress: need support!
our baby is 100% breastfed, and we are really (that is my wife... ) working on her diet.
date: 20 feb  1997 10:46:25 from: kim subject: a newcomer when my son was tested at 9 months it was a prick test of tiny pins (six
they seem to make no real difference in the sense that if she's itchy she still wakes up to scratch regardless of being drugged around the clock (which i did for a week).
then get  yourself something slinky to wear at before or after wedding activities, so you  can pick when you think your skin is at its best.
whether or not it is safe is relative to your  point of view regarding the long term effects of using steroids.
the problem with holding him is that he's not forced to acknowledge us.
actually, i'm not altogether sure it was the medicine that calmed me down - maybe just a "quiet cycle".
most of my hive attacks have been of no consequence.
he also recommended other vitamins but i am still in search of something he can chew or tollerate.
journal de toxicologie clinique et
i recently tried the evening primrose oil and cod liver oil and i am doing wonderfully.
is anyone allergic to glycerin?
that is  why i took the prednisone.
by the way, does anyone know of a good, gentle sunscreen (spf #8 or something)?date: 28 feb 1997 10:17:32 from: ann subject: gentle sunscreens royce, i have had good luck for years with shade uvaguard.
i was just thinking, you can get ocean salt at the pet shop to make salt water for marine fish tanks.
i was trying to eat nutritious snacks to keep my weight up -- i kept losing weight while nursing.
another bit of advice.
are there books you followed or just by a health practioner's recommendation?
the liter  bottle (green front) is sold at approx usd 16.- in the pharmacy.
i do  rub brian's back sometimes, but he scratches his head the most, so i try to rub  his head (and massage with baby oil) for him whenever i catch him scratching.
double rinsing always yields suds on with any detergent i have tried.
she was absolutely miserable.
frankly, one chronic, poorly-understood medical  condition is plenty; i didn't need the eczema on top of the repetitive strain  injury problems i already have.
date: 10 feb 1997 12:55:45 from: donna subject:  eczema & wedding dress: need support!
i figured that those will be pictures we will look at for the rest of our lives so i wanted to look normal.
almost all drugs have side effects of dermatitis (eczema), psoriasis,  pruritis (itching), pityriasis, etc.
she started breaking out bad (as acne, etc.)
how do you think they worked.
date: 20 feb 1997 13:26:22 from: shelley subject: patsy & issac
from: shanon subject: kim/son infections -reply a dr of chinese medicine told me that kelp has a lot to do with it.
e baby moms i think i am a bit different...
so maybe it does have at least one of the  same ingredients.
date: 19 feb 1997 08:55:04 from: brigit subject: triludan (terfenadine) david, whatever your book from 1994 says, the fda is about to ban the stuff!!
but it is a big time in a person's life
he said his wife and children were itchy from head to toe and they are totally clear now.
i had to wean off of it for a couple of weeks though and as i did the e. started coming back with a vengeance i was back where i started until i discovered that propylene glycol was one major culprit.
it  gradually got better, then...
i also ate alot of peanut butter, nuts and dairy  because i don't like much meat.
he scratched alot harder back then and i felt like putting socks on his hands just gave him rug burn.
i know that they love me and want to see me well, but i  don't want them to bring it up.
how's that for a "major" problem??
i was on prednisone during late pregnancy when i just couldn't stand it anymore.
my fiance does this for me if i can't reach the itchy spot, and i find  that putting something on it really does help.
i could call and do some research if i had some basic information to go on.
i have to say, i definitely did gag.
he read me the riot act about all the antibiotics from last year, but what  is a mom to do you work with what you have till you find something better.
of soy flour and 1 tbsp.
i am miserable  in my own skin with it head to toe.
i spent the first year of my life as a very sick kid, and it took the doctors a year to figure out that i was very allergic to dairy--so allergic, that i was reacting to the dairy coming trhough my mom's breastmilk.
my son's eczema started after alot of antibiotics and we do have  ear tubes, i think they were harder on us than him.
sometimes it will clear up but it usually comes right back.
i guess we just have to go day-to-day.
so i am refusing to believe the inevitability of the eczema-athsma progression.
my skin was always so bad that i understand why my parents were reluctant  to touch me, but i recommend that parents find a way to touch in a repetitive  soothing manner, otherwise the child will continue to scratch in desperate  efforts to provide the physical sensations they crave.
from: royce subject: polypropylene glycol oops...
i think i handled it well--just said " he has really itchy skin and it gets red when he scratches it.. "
you don't for the most part scratch first then itch later (although there is some of that when you leave the original area of itching).date: 27 feb 1997 14:35:42 from: royce subject: to:
i just  decided to try it because it was one that i'd never tried and it didn't contain  lanolin.
shanon - i'm beginning to believe it's something in the air which cause jodi her e.
brian started with e at 5 or 6 weeks old... and i  cried and cried several times in the beginning blaming myself for  "giving" this disease to him.
i never heard of it either.
she just had chronic breakouts--every single day, worsenig as time went on.
i also keep my heat turned down in the house to the point that others complain,  but heat and sweat drive me batty.
date: 28 feb 1997 17:37:11 from: vicki subject:
don't give it up just because your dr asks you to.
let it out, and let it go as much as possible.
and is he, by chance on any soy formulas since he's allergic to milk?
;-) i've noticed that when i'm clothes shopping or fabric shopping,  my hands frequently start acting up (getting hot & itchy; patches of e.  start to redden).
for images of severe cases see: http://www.panix.com/~donwiss/index.shtml#dh then there is is peter thompson's web page at http://www.demon.co.uk:80/webguides/nutrition/diets/gluten-free/ with an article written by dr. joseph murray (university of iowa medical school).
but i do know that textile manufacturers treat fabrics with a number of  chemicals, including formaldehyde, which probably don't do much for us e.  sufferers!
often isaac would look away, or get  this vacant look in his eyes, and keep scratching.
our mattresses are wrapped and cleaned often.
and i know i will get well
one guy was making up theories to me and i told him that i have  this list for talking about my rash.
date: 10 feb 1997 11:18:15
i would suggest that you find a good allergist, and experiment with many of  the therapies that have been mentioned in this group.
when the last piece of the ugly scabs fell off her face with no signs of scarring, i went out and brought a lottery ticket.(didn't win, never get that kind of luck!)
i ask because my almost-3-year-old recently underwent allergy testing and was allergic to many of the things you mentioned, including milk and soy.
jodi was born a full term baby at 8 lbs 2oz.
date: 12 feb 1997 21:07:11 from: karen subject: childhood eczema it is a good book..
sue and faith-----our first dr. said of daniel's bad skin----he just has  eczema, like his dad.
date: 12 feb 1997 09:20:58
i don't want to always be trying  to control this and never hunting for why it happens in the first place.
that feeling of just not knowing how to put all the clues together to figure it out is so frustrating.
all i know is jodi likes cool and well ventilated places like our  home.
i meant to write glycerin.
what that tells me is, if we don't come up with anything in this round of testing, i'll just have to drop the guy and move on to the next doctor, or naturopath, or whatever.
we were giving isaac a salmon gelcap that had 220 mgs of epa and 180 mg of dha (omega-3s), and we stopped that.
here's a pancake recipe for brigit: pancake or fritter mixture beat again just before using.
i sometimes think that's her way of drawing our attention.
julia's face has always been  the worst.
it's domineering to offer those theories.
these can last from two minutes (any diaper change  is an opportunity for a session) to an hour or more, depending mostly on our  attention, not his.
desowen is a low-potency, group vi topical corticosteroid lotion.
my only concern now is that the anti-fungal properties of clotriminazole will lessen due to extended usage and i may have to start using steroids again.
i'm quiet on  this list now as thankfully, my problems have subsided for the time being.
these are the same 3 weeks she's been clear.
also, how did you try the evening primerose oil and cod liver oil -- orally or open capsule and apply to skin?
if so, what can they share?
i guess kind of a  softer form of scratching since a 16 mo old can't understand softer.
fix the leaks, or remove the offending substances that leak, and the skin can get better.
date: 2 feb 1997 17:29:16 from: wayne subject: "bag balm" i have used the yellow-can-with-red-lid brand named dr naylor udder balm, made in morris, new york.
my father had asthma as a child.
i've just completed a course in it, and my skin is looking a hell of a lot better.
date: 21 feb 1997 20:21:01 from: faith subject:
date: 19  feb 1997 11:46:28 from:
also, i just figured out that i'm allergic to polypropylene glycol which is  in the majority of medications my doctor prescribed to me for all these years.
faith, i couldn't agree with you more, i am of the same mind.
either way, it dried my (very oily) skin and that's the last thing  eczema-people need.
l-glutamine is an amino acid that i've heard referred to as brain food.
and she always had new stupid theories to make me feel bad, make me feel like i had to follow her out-of-the-blue ideas.
date: 12 feb 1997 09:44:23 from: royce subject: polypropylene glycol oops...
i have only been on this list for a couple of weeks and it makes me feel like i am not alone with such a challenging problem.
i think i'll try their ideas, too.
i don't need his concern, thank you very  much.
i now double rinse clothing that touches the affected areas and omit fabric softener on them.
it cost $400.00 each time too.
two things i did differently at the end of the good cycle were: let her eat a few things she hasn't had all month and visited a house with a dog again (last 2 itching fits were while visiting a "dog" household and patting their dog.).
i also used and still use alpha keri bath oil (wonderful stuff!!!)
this  is supposed to be better for them--to have food pass thru more quickly.
royce subject: scalp hi.
my skin is almost completely clear now, thanks to a good vitamin regimen, and a little change in diet.
i only hope that isaac's viral  infection is not going to get as ugly as jodi's.
if you don't already have a liquid form of colloidal trace minerals the one i get is by "innovative natural products", brown bottle, 1 oz., 4 oz., and something like 7 oz., called colloidal multiple minerals.
my homeopath feels absolutely certain that we'll get it right and that the eczema will be gone (along with future allergies, asthma... ).
once you are prepared with a simple comeback, you  will be more relaxed and able to enjoy dress hunting and also the big day.
again, i found the first (longs proprietary formula) to be astoundingly effective on my eczema, i.e., it's vanished since i started using the stuff.
i only use the vaseline at night before i go to bed because if it gets on you clothes, it's hard to get out.
he says that the asthma-eczema-hay fever-keratoconus connection is "quite common".
eye problems: keratoconus dave, i'm sorry to hear about your eye troubles.
if you were somehow allergic to glycine, eczema would be the least of your problems, since glycine is in virtually every protein in your body.
we were in china getting her chinese herbal treatment.
i takes the burn out of my skin and also seems to promote the healing.
our daughter hated the antibiotic and barely tolerated the liquid prednisone, but after five days it was all cleared up.
i do miss  that one-on-one contact with him, but he seems to be ok with it.
i wonder if any eczema sufferers in the u.k. have tried zemaphyte?
one guy was making up theories to me and i told him that i have this list for talking about my rash.
also said that they just found out that head  & shoulders is just as effective as the nizorol shampoo that he prescribed  for me the last time i was there... interesting.
scalp sores and cracks take forever to heal; i have had individual scalp hives that lasted for many weeks!date: 7 feb 1997 07:55:19 from: theodore subject:
gopher://gopher.dartmouth.edu:70/11/research/biosci/cdrd
i  could never seem clear my eczema 100%.
for this  reason, it's recalled from the market.
it's hard to believe that any type of eczema benefits from a drying agent, but the stuff helped me.
now put it in your tub.
your daughter is on the same diet as my son but we have not embarked on the  chinese herbs.
for example, tomatoes make his face red and itchy  while he eats them, but don't seem to have a secondary reaction through his  skin (ie, his eczema doesn't get worse after having eaten them).
date: 18 feb 1997 10:43:00 from: debbie subject: to: debbie and julia we are still going to the chiro., although he just cut her down to once a week (after 3 wks.
both times he tested postive only to cats???????
date: 10 feb 1997 11:09:37 from: patsy subject: eczema & wedding  dress: need support!
about supplemental/topical info, etc.
hi linda, i have used the alpha keri bath oil all my life and love it!!
in fact, i usually add a bit more glycerin to it.
her diagnosis is toxins in the blood.
i had eczema as a child but quickly and luckily outgrew it very early on.
maybe it just itched.
i'm trying to work on it from both ends.
i've done enough doctor hopping with the rsi -- time to make a stand against the eczema.
sometimes we even had to carry her because her skin was so bad that if she walked, scabs would break open and she'd bleed.
maybe they will do some other test for you.
but it was as expected: topical  prescription cortisone, bactroban (antiobiotic ointment), and a prescription  antihitamine (atarax).
the liter bottle (green front) is sold at approx usd 16.- in the pharmacy.
from: shelley subject: sibling rivalry
i guess it's hard for him (husband) to understand what i'm going through.
primrose oil topically only and flax seed oil orally.
date: 21 feb 1997 17:16:40 from: christopher subject: stop  scratching
no one seems to have them or even know what  they are.
the killer is that these things are available for sale  widely and that you can't check people haven't got the other drugs it interacts  with.
date: 27 feb 1997 14:26:24 from: richard subject: cyclosporine (3)
we found wearing body suite helps a lot at night - it reduces the degree of damage from unintentional scratching and help to make sure he won't get cold (my baby will scratch everywhere - pull up his coat and scratch his stomach - during sleep.
i have caught up on  literally years of sleep.
i hope it's the right move for  jodi.
now, what does  "colloidal" in colloidal oatmeal mean?
her solid food only include pear, apple, rice, carrot, yam, very lean pork, chinese leafy green and rice cereal.
red wine is a problem, white wine much  less, and any alchoholic beverage has some irritation.
i have some really glaring scars on my body from when i was  much younger from where i scratched a particular area constantly.
i have also contacted phytopharm in the u.k. to find out if i can get zemaphyte, the chinese herbal treatment equivalent in pill form.
there are still mild patchy outbreaks from time to time, but it's not nearly as bad as it was.
did you try head & shoulder?
once again, it proves everybody's eczema is different.
the sun is shining and i'm going out to take a walk.
so when we have the attention for it, we have sessions  where we lovingly, but physically, restrain him from scratching.
i was wondering if  anyone on the list is familiar with this?
now that i am on my second week sans red wine, however, i have soft skin again on my hands-- imagine!
her face started clearing for 3 days on her own (no cortisone), yet wasn't sleeping due to "all-over-itchies."
when i'm concerned about burning (like on the beach or skiing or watersliding), i use coppertone water babies uva/uvb sunblock lotion spf 45.
i  bet you'll look so good at your wedding, no one will even think about your  eczema!
i have noticed that since i have kept it at the two capsules a day, it has had no more effect, and its effect has actually lessened.
jodi has no problem with carrots.
i know what a big deal it is.
i'm sorry to hear about daniel -- people haven't asked about brian's face or problem, however, he doesn't go out much right now since it's so cold.
i've been waiting to say this because i don't want to  encourage a relapse by bragging.)
i am going to try head and shoulders first, since there is some of that in my  bathroom already.
i try to remind myself (and husband) of that every day.
the eczema is a new problem for me.
if they are left alone (although they itch horribly) they will fade and disappear within 30 minutes or so.
please mention it soon to a doctor.
breast-feeding linda & tina - it's not difficult to continue breast feeding your baby even if your dr asked you to stop for a while.
i like the book a lot.
date: 20 feb 1997 10:32:06
date: 20 feb 1997 14:12:02
although the  quality of some might be better than others, i think they are probably all  going to be of the same general philosophy.
rita, you are probably correct to suspect that the central heating in your building brings in dust and mold.
about a week ago there was a discussion on aqueous cream and there were some people wondering exactly what was in it; it was found to contain emulsifying wax and people wondered what that was...
she got the rash on her cheeks, and it also was on her forearms and calves.
she's the one who told me to start the "just say "no" to scratching" technique.
sometimes it will clear  up
after  40 years, the habit is so ingrained it is automatic.
date: 9 feb 1997 19:02:47 from: amy subject: scalp i don't think many remedy shampoos work once the eczema digs into your scalp -- i've seen two heads, my own and another that bear the evidence.
i guess i should be smart enough to test new products in one spot before putting it all over
for those  with knowledge on it, please clarify how it can be diagnosed.
date: 21 feb 1997 20:11:20 from: ralph subject: dermatitis herpetiformis i received the following note about ten days ago, and am finally getting around to passing it along.
these sheets sound  like they're worth a try.
i bring this up because it highlights how  complicated this whole thing is, and how important it is to have some  care-givers who are sensitive to the whole picture...
delivery was very very smooth,  less than 10 minutes.
any suggestions? date: 14 feb 1997 11:18:19 from: debbie  subject: julia saw pedi gi--finally!
what can we do to help the traditional (and even alternative) medical profession deal with that fact?date: 21 feb 1997 09:54:41 from: kay subject: eczema digest we just started using a tar shampoo for ej.
sue - i absolutely agree with you that games are the best for e babies.
i once read the results of a study that said that 60% of all conditions cleared up on their own when a daily journal was kept.
says that it's not harmful.
in other words potency1 * time1 = potency2 * time2.
many plants, trees, dust and molds had catastrophic reactions.
my personal opinion on the subject of bathing is...
date: 20 feb 1997 20:15:48 from: bill subject: eczema digest last october, i had a major flare that knocked me down for a couple weeks.
i understand my mom always has another cause for my son's eczema and if he has skin out for people to see they think i let him get a sunburn, i want to say, mind your own business we are doing the best we can.
make sure it's rice-only, if you're trying to avoid other grains.
i saw on tv that some antihistimines can slow a child down over time, has anyone researched that yet?
rashes usually hide things like scars so when i notice one, i'm happy because it means my skin is doing well!
anyway, i think that the epo and cod liver oil with the vitamins c and e are making the biggest difference.
date: 21 feb 1997  13:42:05 from: heather subject:
obviously he hasn't ever had it -- because if he had, he would know it's nothing to joke about!
i've been avoiding visiting anyone with a dog for 3 weeks now and these are the 3 weeks she's been clear.
however, i use them occasionally now that she goes a week at a  time with no new breakouts, etc.
my husband and i try to maintain a one-on-one situation whenever possible.
my doctor put me on prednisone which almost entirely cleared my skin within 2 days (problem: pred.
she does have a reaction to green peas though.
the enclosure says it's a steroid - my dr said i would like it, that it was stronger than the beta-val i was using.
date: 23 feb 1997 23:07:16 from: faith subject: faith's  delimma thanks, everyone, for some great ideas on how to deal with my husband on  this.
this vitamin is a key component of healthy skin, the scientists said.
totally safe and no side effects.
i actually picked out a dress for my wedding.
welts everywhere, all the  time.
just hours after my milk diet began, she again displayed serious skin disruptions.
i would recommend that you bathe him very often in warm water (hot water will irritate the skin usually, and cold is unbearable) during the summer, as the dirt irritates the skin, causing itching.
strangely enough, my allergist never recommended zinc (which does quite well), nor any of the vitamins i take.
the ones i tried are: sulphur, sepia, graphites, apis mellipica & thyrodium (the most effective for me).
it  helps to know there are other moms out there going through the same struggle.
i was hoping for tests,  actually.
it was a method that i stopped using (for some strange reason) a few years  ago, and that is why i could not recall anything about it, until my mother told  me that i did that at one time.
i also use beechnut and not gerber.
i wonder if you could find people to rub your back for a few hours every day, if you could help your skin.
it's weird but with me everything is connected; all stresses on my body effect the eczema.
she says that she doesn't even notice.
in the last couple of weeks, we have noticed a change in isaac's skin--i've  even wondered if he even has eczema anymore.
the company is still working with the fda on zemaphyte's clinical studies in the u.s. a zemaphyte pill is about 4mm in diameter.
for the itching, have you tried evaporation at night or zinc oxide.
can't use the antihistamines for 2 days before  or the 2 days during, no baths or showers during...
date: 4 feb 1997 17:15:12 from: anil subject: coffee and homeopathic remedies i've been on homeopathic graphites and sulphur for about three weeks now (no coffee, and no caffeine for good measure!).
i have found them at all department stores: bloomingdales, nordstroms, macy's.
i've called everywhere in town looking for sudocrem, which was a zinc oxide preparation mentioned in the eczema faq sheet, but to no avail.
i'm going to the hair salon next week for some trial wedding hairdos and i  am afraid that the woman is going to be kind of disgusted by my scaly scalp.
has anyone had any luck with these?date: 3 feb 1997 13:02:18 from: patsy subject: recipe, pls brigit- can you find tortillas there?
now, of course, they attribute his improvement to pure aging--he "grew out of it."
could you tell me how  they do the allergy testing on a baby -- just curious in case we need to do  this.
no pharmacy in town could tell me.
but the sea is great (after i've plucked up enough courage to go in there, with everyone looking at my legs like they're leprous).
what started out as dry, flaky patches concentrated on her legs and face had turned into bright red, swollen, oozy welts on 75% of her body.
though i am sure it is  different for different people; i suppose i am very lucky.
the helpfulness of "don't scratch!
the name on the bottle says therapeutic atrac-tain with 5% urea.
it really helps control the flakey, powdery areas for me.
nuts used to be okay; now if i eat them i wake up with a red face in the morning.
after sending my posting about ointments vs.  creams, i got that uncertain feeling and went to check my elocon tube.
from:  kathy subject: over-the-counter/prescription drugs & e has anyone looked at the "cutaneous drug reaction database" at  dartmouth?
right now  (and for last 3 weeks)
i've tried pounding pillows, but that doesn't match the refined motor skill sensation of fingers scratching.
here's some of the basic information you need to know: they will teach you how to give yourself a daily injection of gamma interferon, which they said is a synthetic version of what is normally produced by the body.
she was no longer the little baby who scratched and scratched and scratched some more.
evening primrose oil & e moms/dads linda, so sorry your son had a bad night with his eczema.
perhaps the 3rd week we can discuss homeopathy or alternatives.
he just gave me an example of a somewhat infamous movie actress that was able to perform her role on the big screen because she had eczema.
i did have the chance to whisk her off to a portrait studio on her best day--so i had some luck there.
i just remember feeling so alone...
date: 21 feb 1997  11:27:50 from: lynn subject:
she's the one who told me to  start the "just say "no" to scratching" technique.
if i will do what i must to my diet, i believe i can rid myself  of the problems that i even have now.
thank you  again, everyone, for listening.
am i the only one that notices her eczema tends to calm down considerably immediately after the dermatologist appointment has been made?
i have some really glaring scars on my body from when i was much younger from where i scratched a particular area constantly.
you know that i'll be the first to try it, no matter how badly it puts me financially "in the hole."
trust me, i know this  from experience.
most of the designer brands  include egyptian cotton.
there would't be any allergies, not many kids really have allergies.
date: 21 feb 1997 17:03:42 from: christopher subject: nature's biotics where did you find the nature's biotics site?
i don't know their names in english since they are indigenous in china.
they had  to send blood to a special clinic.
so never take these two medications together.
gagging was it only me sitting at the computer, sticking a pen down my throat?
we just started using a tar shampoo for ej.
headaches, drowsiness and dizziness are rarer, as are  palpitations and fainting.
he says it's no worse (in terms of suppressing your immune system) than the prednisone (10 mg/day) that i have been taking for 13 years.
the doctor just wanted to put me on stronger steroids.
i am looking forward to some good spring time weather!date: 26 feb 1997 16:38:21 from: royce subject: more on the bath issue every derm.
this also happens after outdoor exercise in the summer (in the sun) i haven't been on a beach vacation for several years, but when i was a kid, swimming in the ocean every day would clear up my hands every time, so i think the ocean has a lot to do with it.
in their opinion, kids retain these symptoms for their whole lives because doctors don't change anything that causes the problems--they just deal with the manifestations--quiet the skin with steroids, open the bronchial tubes with inhalants, etc.
(while she was also starting to  flare again too)...
i'd  thought that interrupting him would just make him more frustrated, or angry (he  sure reacted that way!).
i think the midnight scratch-fests and  constant irritation sapped my energy reserves over the years.
i do send him a special treat when other kids are getting something special for a party or whatever.
anyhow, the infant herpes infection did not leave any major scars on me.
actually what i've used instead with similar results is: take a piece  of cheesecloth, put oatmeal (i used organic when i could) in it and tie it up  tight.
so i stopped breastfeeding about about five months, but the allergies were all rolling by then.
date: 28 feb 1997 10:46:02 from: alex subject: theory:sun.
i will be looking out for any messages you may send on your progress.
again!!!date: 27 feb 1997 15:37:23 from: debbie subject: e baby foods foods that seem safe: things i give her occassionally
one week later, with soy eliminated from her diet, and her drinking carnation good start (regular) baby formula and a nondairy product called vitamite, her skin is completely clear!
simply because, from my experience, only light cleansing is more irritative than none whatsoever.
none of us would have selected this condition if given our druthers, but this is what we've got.
i thought i was cured.
also, it's an expensive habit.
from: brigit subject: glycerin glycerin is an irritant to many people.
if you can open the  conversation, you can bring some improvement to the situation.
so, remembering this, last summer i would go three days a week after work and go in the water
maybe my skin's not so hyper dry and weak after all -- maybe if i just swab the deck more often, i'd be okay without all the gloves and vaseline routines.
actually, the summer was normally the worst for me, because i was outside the most.
when i am nervous or hot, it is much worse and if i sweat, i feel like i will die.
putting the shoe on the other foot may indeed strike a nerve with him.
i've even given her some of the suspect foods (mainly because she begs and screams so i thought i'd try again!).
date: 11 feb 1997 08:53:18 from: donna subject: colloidal oatmeal a colloidal 'solution' is not a solution in the true sense, as the particles are in fact suspended in the liquid, and not dissolved -- but the particles are so tiny that it seems to dissolve.
i have to use shout on the clothes if i am to have any luck removing stains--especially anything tomato-based..
turned out he was a dentist -- (i laughed and  explained, but notice i have not been dancing since.)
my skin seems to get worse if i don't.
and his  skin went downhill, slowly, after about amonth.
i don't know but wonder if this tight weave makes things tougher for the  dust mites.
so i was wondering how you're  feeling about stopping so abruptly.
our first naturopath recommended that we give isaac  pancreatic enzymes.
i started getting migraines, which on the scale of things is worse than eczema
i e-mailed and wrote to the company who manufactures the vaccine and has not heard from them yet.
she's had 4 visits w/ the chiropractor in the last 2 weeks.
i can't imagine having it all over my body.
i read one research paper that recommended 500 mg 3x per day for eczema, psoriasis, herpes, shingles and got very good results.
but i suppose eczema is a bigger problem.
be careful that he does not scratch any particular places on his body regularly though.
but this whole thing sounds logical to me.
how could a dr. be so ignorant to the emotional/psychological factors of e. i'm glad you let him have it, 'cause it sounds like he certainly deserved it.
date: 10 feb 1997 11:07:52 from: toby subject:
then last thursday i was on a home visit and had drunk a cup of coffee before i realised what i'd done.
the writing on the can says it's a "antiseptic ointment for udder and teats".
unlike manual breast pumps, the industrial pump is very gentle on your skin and does the job really quickly.
we have had success  with lamb, turkey, butternut squash, baby food squash, prunes, peas and  spinach.
i'll be interested in everyone's response and start booking reservations for the summer.
again, this is only my way of treating the problem, and it differs from person to person; depending on allergies, etc.
though it is not one of the most pleasant things in the world, it is not as bad for the skin in my opinion as just plain scratching.
if lace isn't  good for some reason, then experiment with other light materials to cover up  yet be cool.
fever up to 104 about every two weeks for three months, they i didn't sleep because of worry now i don't sleep because of the itch factor.
my doctor raved about this stuff  because it is weak enough to be used on the face.
but i tried several things at one time, now i am clear and don't know what did it.
then we began an ongoing  "fight" with the medical community that we continue to fight.
date: 4 feb 1997 05:39:38 from: brigit subject: recipe thanks for the breakfast suggestions.
when my mum suggested something  with a low back or no sleeves, i just said, "well, i don't know how my  skin will feel that day, and i'd be happier in a different dress."
but phosphorus is doing really well against it so far.
the  one thing that helps is putting jojoba oil on it.
if i go down in flames, so be it -- at least i will have tried!date: 11 feb 1997 22:10:17 from: kim subject: miracle "cure"?
if anything, the itch is worse, but i think that's a healing response (i really hope so) as the lesions are healing up, the dry patches and my total body eczema (mild) are practically gone.
i don't think it's good to take *any* drug all the time, if you can avoid  it.
the question i have is how do we find someone who *can* help us work toward the cause??
not easy for a control freak like me.
1 calcium/magnesium/zinc tablet (333 mg/133 mg/5 mg) 1 potassium tablet (99 mg)
it's not weeping; it just looks like  patchy, dry red spots.
i have found them at all department stores: bloomingdales, nordstroms,  macy's.
are you eliminating soy, malt and rice as well?
he is better now but still not right.
it sounded like it was
it's only a 15 spf (burn protective) so it wouldn't be good for all day on the beach.
it makes my skin less dry, and seems to make the itching less.
he thought that it was unlikely that the steroids would *cause* the keratoconus, but that it might aggravate it, simply because steroids thin the skin etc.
date: 10 feb 1997 16:03:06 from: karen subject: eczema  & wedding dress: need support!
at first we gave him only about a teaspoon a day, and it had no effect.
if lace isn't good for some reason, then experiment with other light materials to cover up yet be cool.
i use about half the suggested amount.
he said that people without eczema would be gagging if he did that to them.
it seems like i will eventually become allergic to everything if i use it long enough, including everything the doctor prescribes about halfway through the tube.
i just wanted to second her itch, if i may.
first, we would go over to him and get right in his face (which sometimes meant lying on the floor so we could look up at him), and saying something like, "looks like you're having a problem here, huh?" in a concerned, but light voice.
and if one area has drastically  improved he focuses on another area.
besides my  husbands e and allegies, we have a nephew with bad asthma, and my husband's  great grandfather had asthma also.
we get it from our health food store here for about $14 for 4 ounces, which the bottle says is equivalent to 227 500mg softgels of epa (i'm trusting them--haven't done the math).
though jodi's  e is not a result of milk protein or milk sugar, i think it's worth testing to  see if your e baby is allergic to cow milk or soy by replacing regular formula  with alimentum or if you nurse, try avoiding all products with milk protein or  milk sugar or soy if you could.
date: 12 feb 1997 13:25:43 from: gayle subject:  egyptian cotton sheets egyptian cotton refers to the fiber it is made from.
breast-feeding linda & tina - it's not difficult to continue breast
date: 12 feb 1997 09:22:21 from: nancy subject: happy to be back i've been reading your posts for a couple of months and was surprised to see that there is a link between asthma, allergy, stomach problems and eczema.
these sheets sound like they're worth a try.
i can't remember the brand names, but one comes is a green can, the other in a yellow can w/ red cap.
i was born with eczema, came home from  the hospital with it.
i am slowly getting used to the idea that there might not be a final solution to i's eczema--we might always ride this roller coaster.
if books, could you please pass along the titles, annotating the ones you found most interesting and helpful.
as i told  him once, "you're easier to ignore than the itch is... "
my second pet peeve is people who with all the authority in the world announce that it is stress-related.
childhood eczema shelley--it is so interesting that the repetitive motion of a backrub can help actually quell the itching for you.
the sample that i am now trying seems the best so far: keri anti-bacterial hand lotion.
so i was wondering how you're feeling about stopping so abruptly.
stopping the formula and following the allergist's protocol, her skin is the  clearest it has ever been.
from: jolie subject:  childhood eczema look into a book called "is this your child" by dr. doris rapp.
feelings of anger, guilt, and  frustration at my parents still cloud my thinking now, esp.
easily done at home with food elimination  diets.
when i remember the  times that i didn't help my sister because her whining and scratching were  driving me crazy.
so i resorted to benadryl for a few nights as a crutch to help break the cycle.
around 10:00 that evening he had rice cereal with bananas (and a bottle of formula, of course) --
so, i stopped it, and will do it at just  bedtime for a bit longer---just in case it's helping at all.
started supplements.
date: 22 feb 1997 03:15:42
i think there must be more to it than that.
i've used topical steroid creams regularly since a baby, and i use them fairly regularly now (my eczema is not as bad).
hang in there and i'll do the same!date: 27 feb 1997 17:13:13 from: patsy subject:
have you ever heard of msm, tried aloe vera or evening primrose?
to about 18 mos; now it's a two-day rotation).
we use a cortisone creme lotion when we have to (a couple of times a week).
has anyone else had any luck with semi-cort?
then i put on 2 products which i swear by-
i do agree with the idea of changing your diet.
the cornea is responsible for about two-thirds of the eye's focusing power.
after that she'd shampoo it.
i'm gonna be a mess!).
can you provide me with a list of your good foods?
i never thought my e may  come back to haunt me but is not so sure anymore.
the water around here gets pretty contaminated from sewage (ugh!!)
i'll take you to the hot spots (ha-ha).date: 27 feb 1997 11:56:46 from: linda subject:
and if later he thinks having eczema as a child is bad, wait until he gets to  become a teenager.
just tell your baby that you will find a way for her to  be normal...
perhaps this is why saunas are beneficial too.
jodi has not had much luck since her return from her chinese herbal treatment in china.
to: rita-child e dear rita, if only we could do something!
good luck with your wedding plans and remember that there is at least one  other person out there who can totally empathize.
thank you again, everyone, for listening.
as wendy suggested, consider prednisone as this is a very special day.
feeding your baby even if your dr asked you to stop for a while.
cetaphil, however, was recommemded amd seemed ok.
my family is very supportive but sometimes they say hurtful things and don't even realize what they're saying my father suggested that i make a drappy scarf out of the material from the dress to put around my neck because i have these brown lines as a result of overuse of steroid creams.
both of these products have some fragrance, but they are working on our daughter.
it gradually got better, then...
, it's a little expensive for me though so i cut it with mineral oil.
has anyone used it and would they  want to comment on the relation to eczema especially for a toddler? date:  11 feb 1997 22:10:34 from: ann subject: polypropylene glycol royce, i stand corrected.
triludan (terfenadine)
we have started a course of homeopathic treatment so we'll see how that works in about two weeks.
the question i have is how do we find  someone who *can* help us work toward the cause??
turns  out he probably has a viral infection (white blood cell count is up), which  could be accounting for why he has so many hives lately.
sure your skin could be broken out, but it could be really good because you'll be so happy, right?
as for interactions with other drugs, antifungal drugs (including ketoconazole and itraconazole) and the antibiotic erthromycin increase terfenadine levels and may affect the heart.
oh, and the thing about the gag test is just hilarious!
like i said, i don't use them but every couple of weeks and i was told never to put it on his face.
i realized that maybe it didn't have to do with will-power or habit.
no one seems to have them or even know what they are.
now he wakes up about once a night for a water bottle.
my theory about my body is that after 20 years of using topical steroids, and 6 weeks of using oral ones last summer (to combat the flare i caused by quitting the topicals cold turkey), my liver wanted to speak its mind and did so through my skin.
my only concern now is that the anti-fungal  properties of clotriminazole will lessen due to extended usage and i may have  to start using steroids again.
sometimes we even had to carry her because her skin was so bad that if she  walked, scabs would break open and she'd bleed.
and he gave me a sample of temovate .05% (clobetasol propionate .05% in a base  of purified water, isopropyl alcohol & carbomer 934p & sodium  hydroxide).
it seems to be just two references to journal articles (title and source).date: 27 feb 1997 09:32:15 from: jessica subject:
they remind me of my childhood of agony and help me have sympathy for my mother who had no one to talk to about her experiences.
he is on a very restricted diet as designated by the e baby foods message.
can anyone confirm or invalidate my suspicion that the "special  ingredient" in eucerin, which is eucerit, is also in good old nivea cream?
terfenadine may increase the sedative effect of antidepressants, sleeping  pills and antipsychotics, whilst antidepressants increase the chance of  abnormal heart rhythms.
i have never had eczema, but some of my insights that i use to help isaac  come from growing up with a younger sister who was very debilitated by it.
i'm seriously wondering about an allergy to dogs/cats.
mac has not been well lately, he had a fever siezure on sunday.
his skin used to ooze alot back then and when he would scratch with the little socks on he would just take the layers of skin with them.
i rented an  industrial breast pump when my milk first came in and when we needed to go out  and jodi's still sleeping, i pumped it out for later use.
date: 20 feb 1997 15:28:40 from: tina subject: my name thanks, kim...
could you tell me how they do the allergy testing on a baby -- just curious in case we need to do this.
since everyone had one and i was always going somewhere
but i couldn't seem to get off of it.
i don't think that anyone believes that eczema or asthma is caused by just  one thing, so it's really hard to ever wipe out the root cause.
dhea, from what i understand, is a hormone regulator that everyone has some level of in their bodies.
and i thank the lord every day.
getting his eye contact  during this is tough, but important.
so we've just started up again,  with 1 tsp/day, and looking for anyone who might know what a safe dose of this  is.
just  open the conversation saying something like "honey, i figured out  something important about my skin and i need your help with it.
date: 11 feb 1997 10:18:20 from:  ann subject:
my son has it head to toe if not on this restricted diet.
i could never seem clear my eczema 100%.
but it went away as soon as i gave birth to juliet.
i'm sorry to hear about mac's illness.
the picture of jodi on the floor, scratching rather than yelling for help, is a replica of what isaac used to do.
this morning i was diagnosed with keratoconus, which is an eye disorder (specifically, the cornea).
red wine i have the same reaction as diane...
fortunately, i was self indulgent that day and bought them anyway (about $50 a  sheet).
while it hasn't completely  cleared my eczema, i think it is going to.
date: 24 feb 1997 08:30:04 from: heather subject: sarna cream (was:helpfulness of "don't scratch!")
date: 9 feb 1997 19:02:47
it's the only thing that gets rid of that flaky skin for me.
it doesn't seem to drive him  to his hands, either for some reason.
i was talking to a pharmacist who said that it would be good to rotate using various kinds of antibacterials (like betadine, hibiclens, etc.)
rice flour makes good muffins (though rugged), and you can use soy flour in place of eggs in baked goods; just use 1 heaping tbsp.
date: 20 feb 1997 10:46:25 from: kim subject: a newcomer when my son was tested at 9 months it was a prick test of tiny pins (six i think) on a base that was pressed onto his back.
this frees up trapped nerves, blood vessels etc, throughout the body and allows the organs to work properly.
they  plugged him full of medications, antibiotics, drugs, drugs, drugs.
i have to say, *all* who saw it didn't flinch and  seemed quite at ease with it.
now my sweat makes me itch and burn, but probably only because my skin is broken.
i might also suggest that "sun bathing" be used as well.
i still struggle with that one, because right after isaac  was born, we took him to a naturopath who told me i should immediately take all  dairy, corn, wheat, and peanuts from my diet, as long asi was nursing him.
i've been sleeping with a soft, white cotton tee-shirt over my pillow case because it's the only thing that doesn't make me itch!
his face looked worse than it actually was from dried blood which was rubbed up and down his face.
maybe medication, though less likely) to help repair stomach, intestinal, liver areas.
any theories of your own?
then the next 3 days were a gradual downhill.
it's like the newton law of physics that says  "every action has an equal and opposite reaction."
usually this is a place no one can see; it figures that it's bad now when someone will need to concentrate on this area.
i needed to resort to some drugs for some instant relief as she was very sick with croup and getting worse because she wasn't sleeping at all due to itching.
from: tina subject: allergy tests-linda maybe some allergists don't have the same rules for their testing.
i'm feeling euphoric (it's probably also due to finally sleeping!).
i've done enough doctor hopping with the rsi --  time to make a stand against the eczema.
i also keep my heat turned down in the house to the point that others complain, but heat and sweat drive me batty.
i do manage to keep it under control (it's always worse  during winter and during certain times of the month), but i *can't stand* the  looks of consternation on my relatives' faces when they see it.
already his face is looking much better -- thank god!
i'll let you know how that works for me.
the remedy, the diet, the chiropr., etc.
according to my "bumper book of drugs for hypochondriacs" or  whatever it is called, adverse effects from terfenadine are rare.
i think evening primrose used topically and taken orally is helpful after about 3 months.
when i was young my dr said that the skin could absorb it better.
i'm one of those opto-wozzisname blokes, so i can fill this in some.
so, kim, the disks aren't effective for the real life dirt of active families.
he also suggested a  vitamin high in leafy green vitamins.
other natural products that are working, simicort a cream herb product substitute for cortisone, made by enzymatic therapy in green bay wisconsin 54311 800-783-2286 also natural baby body lotion from aubrey organics 1-800-aubreyh.
after that ran out i bought some dry scalp head and shoulders.
i saw on tv that some antihistimines can slow a child down  over time, has anyone researched that yet?
i checked the price and asked the clerk when they would be on sale.
you can just toss it out or compost it when your done.
i had a dr tell me once that i was washing away all my own body oils and that was why i had dry skin (obviously he has never had eczema).
welcome sue (& isaac) what you are describing on isaac is hives - a condition i also have.
i went right back to nursing jodi when the expedition made no difference to her
date: 21 feb 1997 17:16:40 from: christopher subject: stop scratching
that way they both get the attention they need.
at the moment i'm not using cortisone because my skin is pretty much under control except for a few small areas and the usual dry, slightly itchy skin that i don't think will ever go away (i use emollients & zinc for this).
i read about the study in the ease newsletter and called out of curiousity.
wendy, sorry to hear about your scratching frenzy last week.
they say it can aid in weight loss, anti-aging process and a lot of other things.
the prednisone did a great job
and she said that i was born with thrush.
scalp-itch "by the makers of lanacane", combe incorporated,  white plains, ny 10604.
this is what has worked: gerber applesause
i've just started her on flax seed oil, which is kind of similar to evening primrose oil.
then we'd say,  "i'm going to try to help you!"
real meals are not much of a problem, as i'm a decent cook and work from scratch anyhow (very little ready-made stuff in my food ever); so i just choose things without cheese, cream and eggs.
it gets dry, flaky, itchy...
for images of severe cases see: http://www.panix.com/~donwiss/index.shtml#dh then there is is peter thompson's web page at  http://www.demon.co.uk:80/webguides/nutrition/diets/gluten-free/ with an  article written by dr. joseph murray (university of iowa medical school).
telling me to stop scratching doesn't really help me at all!
it is made by the sween corporation, n.  mankato, mn 56001.
my husband and i pray daily for brian (and  myself) for healing of the eczema.
date: 1 feb 1997 12:17:23 from: brigit subject: bag balm
now it doesn't touch my eczema
are there daily vitamins you also take?
date: 18 feb 1997 17:32:03 from: unknown subject: a newcomer my daughter is also allergic to tomatoes she reacts with redness, itching and hives around her mouth.
various moisturizers, creams, chemicals, vitamins etc. were okay
but i get anxious and i want to try to make my skin better right away.
egyptian cotton has  longer and thinner fibers allowing a higher thread count (threads per inch).
daniel has broke out after wearing an outfit that was  new at christmas and it was washed before he wore it...
she thinks he just loved his blankie...
has anyone else heard about antihistamines causing long term problems?date: 19 feb 1997 18:06:24 from: rita subject:
it is very hard to get him to stop once he gets going.
your last note suggests that it is causing some problems.
i hate to sound vain about surface looks, etc.
here's something i've pondered for most of my lifetime.
finishing the sun bathing and/or sauna sessions with cool/cold showers water seems to make a big difference in the amount of benefit accomplised, infection reduced, and increased comfort level achieved.
it gently  repositions any dysfunctions in your body, and re-aligns the cranial bones to  their correct position.
everyday, i brewed a big bag of herbal mix with 48 oz of water and reduced it into 6 oz of decoction.
unfortunately, for some reason it never occurred to me that my daughter could be allergic to soy, so i never eliminated that, which has turned out to be the major culprit in her case.
or coincidentally got a virus then).
date: 21 feb 1997 13:42:05 from: heather subject: fabric stores, clothes shopping, and e. i was just rereading a supportive message from royce (thank you again!)
i do worry about enough vitamins, my homeopathic md recommended essential minerals, it did make a difference.
because it  aggravated my irritable bowel syndrome.
i have hard enough time with the food and itching.
then we'd go out in the afternoon again and do the same thing.
if something is off my eczema acts up.
date: 14 feb 1997 11:18:19 from: jolie subject: julia saw pedi gi--finally!
rather, the hard lens surface effectively becomes the new surface for the eye, and the area between the hard lens and your own cornea fills in with tears.
yes, i know  that my scratching is making things worse.
date: 3 feb 1997 21:42:36 from: cheri subject: eye problems: keratoconus dave, you certainly seem to be taking it well.
if any of you does want to try evening primrose oil for a baby, you might want to look for now (brand) evening primrose oil in the 4 oz. bottles.
speaking from experience, i believe breast milk  is the best for babies.
date: 3 feb 1997 11:49:42 from: brigit subject: recipe, pls i've embarked on a wheat-free, dairy-free, egg-free elimination diet.
i have already sent away for mailings on how daniel can cope with all this growing up.
they say this as if it is the same as being all in my head, and therefore still my fault.
when i read through past archives, i could relate to those of you talking about scratching for hours in bed at night.
dr. sheehan won't take anyone younger than 1.
the health food store i go to sells it for $4.19.
the active ingredient is desonide.
relate, i guess) to our shared problem.
i don't do it over the counter.
i am slowly getting used to the idea that there might not be a final  solution to i's eczema--we might always ride this roller coaster.
two  things i did differently at the end of the good cycle were: let her eat a few  things she hasn't had all month and visited a house with a dog again (last 2  itching fits were while visiting a "dog" household and patting their  dog.).
i have been taking my son's lunch to daycare for over a year (he is 2.5)  and since he never has eaten what other kids do he doesn't seem to care.
:-)date: 1 feb 1997 18:52:01
when daniel was that age (now 16 mos) blood was a fairly normal sight in the morning.
i have tried  a few of the large dept stores.
you have to come to the office to be checked 6 times (baseline test, then week 1, week 4, week 8, week 12, and week 16 as follow-up).
there must be something i can do to help.
it gives me hope that we can do something to break this cycle of scratching that our kids are just building now.
behold, he has all sorts of food allergies!
and i am sooo happy that you wrote in about this.
i think i am but my doctor says that it's not possible (i think it's possible for me to be allergic to anything).date: 11 feb 1997 14:53:44 from: brian subject: the riddle of the itch i believe that the rule of thumb is to consider the combination of time and potency.
date: 19 feb 1997 14:58:13 from: david subject: triludan (terfenadine) my understanding, from talking to my pharmacist is that it is purely an interaction problem.
we are trying to help him as best we can right  now, but i also believe in prayer.
these 3 things have helped tremendously.
i still struggle with that one, because right after isaac was born, we took him to a naturopath who told me i should immediately take all dairy, corn, wheat, and peanuts from my diet, as long asi was nursing him.
i don't know he could tell it's leaky gut or not without specimens.
we ended up leaving in the middle of the course but it was too late.
gretchen subject: glycerine, etc.
not easy for  a control freak like me.
but i'm not too worried about it... yet.
jodi doesn't call for our help, she simply starts scratching.
cetaphil is an apparently very hypoallergenic solution.
we go back in 3 weeks.
but to me it seemed the less of the evils.
what do i look for in a tar shampoo?
just that and water, isopropyl alcohol, "emollients" and "thickener".
i did have  the chance to whisk her off to a portrait studio on her best day--so i had some  luck there.
that is why i took the prednisone.
i only hope that isaac's viral infection is not going to get as ugly as jodi's.
i now use 1/2 the amout i once did and the disks.
when i turn the water off, i rub it on my skin then pat dry.
brigit's right, "bag balm" is a generic term, so there are several producers.
when we first took him to the allergist his skin was so bad they couldn't test him there.
i wish it to everyone on the list!date: 10 feb 1997 11:28:37 from: ann subject: wedding day eczema
(anticholinergic drigs are used to affect muscle movements and are used to  treat urinary incontinence and ibs.)
this is probably not the best thing to do
they almost always happen together.
i did complain but they looked at me like i was crazy.
i mentioned that i had been using topical steroids etc and the opto-wozzizname bloke suggested that it was more likely that it was due to the eczema itself than its treatment, although the steroids may have aggravated the situation.
anybody got an opinion?date: 11 feb 1997 13:32:33 from: shelley subject: eczema & wedding dress: need support!
kept me up all night).
he said they didn't think it would get rid of eczema permanently but would keep it under control (like insulin for diabetes).
my body doesn't seem to produce much oil so i give it some with the alpha keri (getting a soft water service helped too!!).
being right in the center of the couch allows  me to stop jodi from falling when she loses her balance.
and now her sister wants  the same attention.
i add all kinds of dried  fruit and nuts for variety.
this is supposed to be better for them--to have food pass thru more quickly.
i'm doing really well lately.
so, you've already been down the path that we might need to walk.
we are now avoiding all wool (including those expensive natural baby covers we got so many of) we bought some hepa filters, and our dogs no longer come in the house.
the little bit of itchy, flaky eczema that i had left was cleared up using the shampoo.
our allergist said there are  chemicals in the clothes to make them hang nicely on the racks...
it is your problem, not theirs, and is none of their business.
lanolin (hypo-allergenic) 4.00% made in ireland for: tosara products (uk) ltd po box 5 70 picton road liverpool l15
the one thing that helps is putting jojoba oil on it.
hang in there!date: 24 feb 1997 12:27:57 from: linda subject: eczema digest faith, i understand your dilemma with your husband since my husband basically does the same thing.
date: 3 feb 1997 15:09:45 from: dave subject:
before we found out this method, my baby's ear, foot, neck are always bloody in the morning.
date: 14 feb  1997 11:51:05 from: mella subject: eczema & wedding dress: need support!
even knowing what i  know now, though, i might not have done it, then--breastfeeding was terribly  painful for me, i was really ready to quit...
the theory is that your body knows how to heal itself, and practitioners  just provide that little boost of energy to kick start the process.
and maybe (and i guess this is faith)
date: 1 feb 1997 12:45:18 from: shelley subject: how am i today?
i am staying away from wheat, dairy and eggs, too, but here is my cereal.
i use them every day on any affected areas and it seems to help it heal and keep it from coming back.
however, this is the same month that we've done a lot of other things differently too.
a lower potency steroid could be taken for a longer period.
will the flannel be better for me to touch?
in the last few weeks, his skin has been blotchy, but the blotches are not usually raised--they're splashes of color.
if she's itchy, she still wakes up anyway though.
date: 20 feb 1997  23:57:02 from: christopher subject: eczema digest bill, please post this new miracle vitamin regimen to the list!
the  author does not speak at all about children or infants so i just use common  sense, ask health food store prof.
i don't mean to sound like "woe is me" i know things can be worse  than this
[ann, i can now empathize with your full body herpes infection.
i'm pissed that my doctor actually caused part of the problem.
i don't know if  what we did helped, but here's what it was.
we are all anxious to help our little ones and we all have so  much we can share.
perhaps they can tell us more since zemaphyte has been approved as a prescription drug in the u.k. i believe info on zemaphyte are on our archives.
these he has been receiving.
if, and when you begin to really not care about what  people think of your eczema, that is when most will begin to ignore it.
who knows exactly what is helping the most.
i just give her a little bit of prunes every day.
heather- congratulations!
the theory is that your body knows how to heal itself, and practitioners just provide that little boost of energy to kick start the process.
i'm back to eczema on my legs only.
for example, tomatoes make his face red and itchy while he eats them, but don't seem to have a secondary reaction through his skin (ie, his eczema doesn't get worse after having eaten them).
i spoke to dr.  siebenlist at 415-476-4701 in san francisco.
sometimes we'd have to pick him up, or put him in our laps, to get even enough of his attention to talk to him.
she  agreed, and the whole process was much more low- key than i expected (no  attempts on her part to find the "cause" of my e., etc.).
sometimes i guess breastfeeding isn't always the best for baby!
it has been extremely helpful on my scalp eczema.
if you work in an office, i sure would give them a try.
the last time i went dancing, one of my partners backed  away when he felt my hands (strategically bandaged!) and said "i have to  ask... is that contageous?"
good wishes to all, and i believe that copious amounts of love for our afflicted ones and their caregivers really does help and really does matter.
that's how honey and sugar pastes work  when they're used as antibiotic dressings - they draw water out of the bacteria  and kill them, i'm told.
our allergist said winter is harsher because it is so cold and dry here.
when i was young, the ocean was wonderful for my skin.
i can drink tea and eat chocolate but i can't do even decaf coffee, or a coffee nip.
thru some kind of test?
things have been going a lot better nowaday as i started to learn more about it from you guys/gals!
at age 10 months, our doctors were convinced that isaac was "atopic" (and he was, in their definition).
my dermatologist doesn't think that my e. is allergy-related,
i am not on the edge of constant irritation and feel that i  have had my sense of humour return!
i've been using j and j new sensitive skin formula baby shampoo but it doesn't do any good.
i've gotten rid of 90% of my problems,  and now if i can just get rid of that last 10%, i'll be so very happy.
did yours feel that confident about it.
date: 10 feb 1997 19:53:23 from: christopher subject: eczema & wedding dress: need support!
it's greasier than vaseline.
but she said she thought that babies confronted with  such terrible itchiness needed their parents to step in and stop them--they  just weren't strong enough to help themselves.
date: 27 feb 1997 17:42:47 from: linda subject: bad night with baby tina, you are right about the socks rubbing his skin so hard that it looks like rug burn.
fix the  leaks, or remove the offending substances that leak, and the skin can get  better.
we dress him two full layers lighter than we are dressed.
brian's derm was quite blunt -- she wanted me to stop nursing that very day!
these are great moisturizers that my derm.
tina, it sounds like you handled the situation well with the girl at preschool.
you are fortunate in having a loved one who is there for support.
i think those were the two missing ingredients that diprobase had that aqueous cream "didn't".
but maybe the load was too big and didn't get rinsed thoroughly.
they come in dark colors and prints that hide stains  from scratching and weeping.
date: 26 feb 1997 18:45:38 from: anil subject:
he can call it whatever he wants -- that doesn't mean i have to "just live with it"!
good luck, and let us know how things go.
very little beef or tuna (suspicious foods for us).
it was necessary - nothing i  could do about it.
our doctors  just put him on one anti-biotic after another, and we went along with it, not  knowing we should be concerned, for a few months.
and i wasn't sure that the cyclosporine wasn't causing them.
had you been using topical steroids on your face, or just on your body?
i notice that when i wash jodi's hair everyday, her e clears up on her scalp.
now i'm not sure  that he wouldn't have had the ear infections anyway, just because of the  allergies, but in retrospect, i think i should have forced myself to stop the  diary and peanuts in my diet, and kept breastfeeding him.
and that's where i am right now.
in addition to this, we've once again been using a slight amount of topical cortisone behind the knees (knees and neck often keep her itching all night) and a dose of antihistamine.
but now i notice i am sensitive to many products i had used for years (one ex: i used eucerin for a long time until one day it started to make my skin worse.
wash all his clothes in hot water (with all-clear, which seems to work  for him), and double-rinse them.
that's how honey and sugar pastes work when they're used as antibiotic dressings - they draw water out of the bacteria and kill them, i'm told.
again, i found the first  (longs proprietary formula) to be astoundingly effective on my eczema, i.e.,  it's vanished since i started using the stuff.
i  personally suffered very much with my skin problems as a child (my brother had  it too but not as bad).
maybe  they will do some other test for you.
i believe (though i may be wrong) that regular bathing would remove some of the bacteria that causes the itching.
so who are  they to make these types of judgements of other professionals?
i am sure many of you with eczema know the frustration of trying to sleep when everything you touch seems painful or makes you itch.
i tried them anyway, and i have had great success.
i thought i was the only one who did that.
my anti-eczema vitamin regimen (this will not work for everyone!)
these were the only things she could tolerate.
one of my sisters still had braces on her teeth when she got married, and i  remember how upset she was, moaning about how the photos were going to be  terrible, practicing smiling without showing her teeth, etc.
we deserve the treat of something nice next to our skin.
and why you feel you  owe them an explanation...
the medical community uses the concept of "atopia" to describe people  who have a predisposition to allergic reactions...
it  took the doctors a year to figure out that i was very allergic to dairy--so  allergic, that i was reacting to the dairy coming trhough my mom's breastmilk.
and i think it had paprika
i hope the chiropractor etc. helps to prevent the eczema.
simply  tell them what it is, and if they ask any further, take your business  elsewhere.
well, now that you mention it, yes, at one time i *did* use my teeth to scratch myself, and did so quite regularly up until about a year ago (when i started trying to take care of the stuff... by simply not scratching even though it about drove me out of my mind, as well as experiments with vitamin supplements.
the bad part is that we had to stop all antihistamines for one week prior, which made for a horrible 7 days, so be prepared for that.
i feel hesitant to give my baby steroids (although they have made a significant improvement in her skin).
date: 4 feb 1997 11:07:16 from: debbie subject:
easily done at home with food elimination diets.
that feeling of just not knowing how to put  all the clues together to figure it out is so frustrating.
but i also started a diet change then.
obviously you have to be in the bay area to even consider doing this, but he said there are other places doing the study.
what little do you know about it?
after 10 days, i  tried to wean off and had a return flare as bad as the first.
i don't really itch.
when i asked the chinese dr where the toxins came from,  he said it was from me when i was pregnant with her.
he  finally slows down, seems to look at us more openly, asks to get down, and goes  to play--without scratching.
i suffered with it until i was about 15 years old.
38 3430 1990 cm2120190002 ribomunyl testud f;vial t;descotes j;evreux jcl sociiti frangaise de toxicologie.
you can contact them at http://www.landsend.com/ or by phone at (800)963-4816 (international: (608)935-6170).date: 11 feb 1997 22:04:00 from: faith subject: miracle "cure"?
i used to visit my sister's house practically daily.
it took a while, but i've gotten over  the guilt, and realized that it wasn't something i wanted to give him, it's  just part of life and heredity.
i found out when bonnie was 3 months old that she was suffering from allergic eczema.
but i think i just developed an allergy to this within the past couple of years.
i don't think that anyone believes that eczema or asthma is caused by just one thing, so it's really hard to ever wipe out the root cause.
by stopping itches as  soon as possible with cold water followed by air drying, i've pretty much got  it to a tolerable stage.
after i steamed the veggie, i cut the stem in 3-4 inches a piece and give them to the girls as finger food.
i brushed my hand on the sheets in a department store and couldn't believe  the silky smooth feel.
all doctors should know this and should only prescribe creams (or lotions or gels) for allergic people when the greasiness of ointments can not be tolerated.
date: 5 feb 1997 17:47:23 from: patsy subject: child eczema rita, could you find something your 28 month old could do to help jodi?
misc i tried semi-cort because a few people said that it worked wonders.
i now double rinse clothing that touches the affected  areas and omit fabric softener on them.
now, of course, they  attribute his improvement to pure aging--he "grew out of it."
old (brian) woke up at 4 a.m. with bloody socks (which he had pulled off his hands).
she's been going to a  hom eopath for 5 months.
now melt that over some corn flakes -- i think i could well live on that for a month...
date: 10 feb 1997 11:09:37 from: patsy subject: eczema & wedding dress: need support!
i know what you mean about trying on dresses.
(her face still looked real good at this point so he wasn't just reading  her.)
anybody use just sesame oil or anything like that.
the stress is  high enough without eczema!
i find bag balm has very little smell to it, and what smell it does have i find "medicinal"...
i have caught up on literally years of sleep.
he  will get better on his own.
there  is a company called "national allergy supply, inc." 1-800-522-1448  that markets a test that you can order for $25.
if  they are left alone (although they itch horribly) they will fade and disappear  within 30 minutes or so.
it may also be  worth noting that the cod liver oil (a & d), as well as the vitamin e are  essential.
date: 4 feb 1997 06:44:35
our baby is 100% breastfed, born at home.
this is my treatment for my eczema, and it helps a lot.
vaseline and mineral oil are almost the only thing she can put on her skin to protect it.
i had eczema as a child  but quickly and luckily outgrew it very early on.
i've  been asked all of my life about mine, and it hurts sometimes (because it is so  embarassing), but i've learned to deal with it (as you obviously have).
so we began a game where we  would (both) scratch our legs for a second, then throw our hands in the air and  yell "stop!"
we're moving the end of this month.
it is "nutrogena t" and we found it at the grocers after seeing an ad on television.
my 3 and 1/2 year old understood what it was about.
i ever went to said not to bathe for too long or too often but i never listened.
i nursed him for just over 5 months and our doctors all said he probably didn't have food allergies.
said it probably would have taken an adult who was that bad a good 3 mos.
when he scratches now, instead  of that red and abraded skin, he gets big patches of welts--dozens of small,  white bumps, amost contiguous to each other.
date: 10 feb 1997 09:38:17 from: jessica subject: julia's infant eczema debbie, i am so happy for you and for julia.
have you tried homeopathy?
date: 13  feb 1997 04:35:55
jojoba oil is very expensive, but some health food places sell it in bulk, and you don't need very much.
the riddle of  the itch i believe that the rule of thumb is to consider the combination of time and  potency.
unfortunately, for some reason it never occurred to me that my daughter could  be allergic to soy, so i never eliminated that, which has turned out to be the  major culprit in her case.
i also cook  her food from scratch.
and i hope that out of all  the people out there the ones on this list will understand.
how about whichever dress you  fancy with a lace wrap on top?
and specific nutritional info.
they seem to last longer than other sheets and still look great after a couple of years of frequent washing.
right now (and for last 3 weeks) she's doing great: clearing completely on some days.
then i tried to let her know it was ok for her to touch him...
shanon - i'm beginning to believe it's something in the air which cause  jodi her e.
she has no diaper rash from her poo  which may suggest undigested food and she has very good appetite.
my pet peeve is people who act as if the rash is my fault somehow, as if i  rolled in poison ivy or something.
i bring this up because it highlights how complicated this whole thing is, and how important it is to have some care-givers who are sensitive to the whole picture...
date: 10 feb 1997 14:56:13  from: royce subject: eczema & wedding dress: need support!
(jeez, he's almost two, and technically, he should still be in the infant car seat!)
i don't need his concern, thank you very much.
he placed him on a special diet along with the anti  histamine (periactin).
i have tried several of the supplements and creams suggested by this list, and my condition has improved considerably.
from: heather  subject: eczema & wedding dress: need support!
b-v is a cream, while ultraval is an ointment, kind of like vaseline.
my daughter sent me some 2oz sizes of stuff called purell instant hand sanitizer: "kills 99.9% of most common disease-causing germs within 15 seconds".
date: 13 feb 1997 09:35:00 from: gary subject: glycerin that's interesting, because glycerin is one of the few things my skin will  tolerate.
egyptian cotton has longer and thinner fibers allowing a higher thread count (threads per inch).
sue: thanks for sharing so much about isaac.
however, this is the same month that we've done a lot of other  things differently too.
incidentally, i'm intending to confront him with my need/desire to find a  permanent solution to this -- i want him (or someone he could refer me to) to  help me track down the triggering allergen(s).
date: 26 feb 1997 16:16:42 from: royce subject: body oil i've used various oils including sesame.
i ask her from time to time, how she can stand it.
first, we would go over to him and  get right in his face (which sometimes meant lying on the floor so we could  look up at him), and saying something like, "looks like you're having a  problem here, huh?" in a concerned, but light voice.
i don't know he could tell it's leaky  gut or not without specimens.
one of my sisters still had braces on her teeth when she got married, and i remember how upset she was, moaning about how the photos were going to be terrible, practicing smiling without showing her teeth, etc.
it smells  like the parking lot at six flags on a sunny day (creosote) and i wonder if it  will be too harsh.
date: 1 feb 1997 22:13:57 from: ann subject: detergents i use tide free.
best wishes for a wonderful life together.
good luck to you and yours!date: 24 feb 1997 13:12:46 from: rita subject:
of course the steroid ointments helped immensely as did the antihistimines.
date: 27 feb 1997 10:57:43 from: shanon subject: kim/son infections -reply
ointments (in general) don't contain things like polypropylene glycol.
daniel isn't allergic to almonds (other nuts,yes) but all the other long words probably aren't too good for him!
fortunately, i was self indulgent that day and bought them anyway (about $50 a sheet).
not foods, not diet, not animals big or  small.
and he's so sensitive now... just getting excited during play will bring welts out on his face and legs.
childhood eczema (to kim, esp.)
there's an allergy cookbook that has helped us--i think it's called "the food allergy cookbook".
to my surprise, i did not have any problems.
now that doesn't  work as well, but he's a pretty good talker now, so we have new options.
i have been fortunate to have doctors who always  prescribe ointments rather than creams.
i have never used it day after day, but it seems ok for me to use occasionally.
and is he, by chance on any soy formulas since  he's allergic to milk?
the university of california at berkeley study, which was conducted on mice, concluded ozone rapidly strips vitamin e from the uppermost layer of skin.
except putting alpha-keri bath stuff is like lighting a match next to me.
date: 10 feb 1997 11:07:52 from: toby subject: colloidal oatmeal i think but am not positive that "colloidal" means that the oatmeal is ground up and processed so tiny that it acts like it dissolves in your tub.
does anyone know of a good remedy for an itchy, flaky, scabby eczema scalp that won't irritate my skin and that doesn't stink like tar?date: 6 feb 1997 17:04:07 from: gary subject: scalp i have found success with long's drugs scalp itch treatment lotion.
melissa subject: desowen lotion i am fairly new to this eczema thing.
we have had him tested twice (last about 6 months ago).
when allergy testing  showed a mild reaction to potatoes, we took her off of that favourite food and  her skin cleared up considerably.
i just include this history to let you know some of the things i noticed with my two children, and a couple of strategies that worked for us.
i have eczema on my scalp; it's falky and scabby and i can't get rid of it.
now daniel is allergic to peanuts, but not dairy.
i was very self-conscious about  it.
i would recommend that you bathe him very often in warm water (hot  water will irritate the skin usually, and cold is unbearable) during the  summer, as the dirt irritates the skin, causing itching.
now daniel is allergic to peanuts, but not  dairy.
this sounds kind of disgusting
they were already on sale.
what can we do to help the  traditional (and even alternative) medical profession deal with that fact?
my skin was always so bad that i understand why my parents were reluctant to touch me, but i recommend that parents find a way to touch in a repetitive soothing manner, otherwise the child will continue to scratch in desperate efforts to provide the physical sensations they crave.
corneal transplantation is only needed if the cornea is so badly deformed that it is impossible to fit a contact lens, or if there is scarring due to the keratoconus that obscures the central vision - that is clearly the minority of patients.
colloidal oatmeal i think but am not positive that "colloidal" means that the  oatmeal is ground up and processed so tiny that it acts like it dissolves in  your tub.
well, the benefit from the chinese herbal treatment seems to give way to a series of countered epidsodes .
we have no solutions for bonnie right now.
and even if a central heater is free of all allergens, the air itself is so dry that it can irritate already dry skin.
cortizone 10 scalp itch formula.
of course i also had my share of goodies -- chocolate.
i keep telling myself things could be lots worse, though.
and given that i'm in the middle of  a particularly itchy flare-up at the moment, this may come in handy... date: 22 feb 1997 03:08:05
that was my first impulse when i read your first post about using head and shoulders.
i know what you mean when you talk about scratching  during the night.
it was $45 for the first visit and $35  for the rest.
triludan (terfenadine) david, whatever your book from 1994 says, the fda is about to ban the  stuff!!
i did find a couple of press releases from the manufacturers and everything  is of course all right ;)
what a dissappointment.
i haven't tried this yet but am planning on it.
so i haven't breastfed him since last friday evening.
i have found  this to be very helpful in my case.
the derm told me to see how he is after one week off breastmilk, and  if it's not better, he would need to have allergy tests done.
julia is very lucky to have someone who cares so much about her.
i have also had infections in my eczema and don't ever want that again
because my chiro. had a lot to say about julia.
has anyone out there heard about using enzymes?
i  am sure many of you with eczema know the frustration of trying to sleep when  everything you touch seems painful or makes you itch.
so, she had 9 clearing days (with only 2  actual days of "looking" clear since she started out as mess), then  went downhill for 3 days (but not too bad at all really) and now has been going  back uphill for the last 3 days.
child eczema -reply rita, your post was heartbreaking...
the stuff is great though.
reading the recent postings on the possible causes of eczema, i have been  thinking about the cause of my 11 months' .
but, to me at least, the prednisone is a known commodity: it did result in osteoporosis, but as far as my immune system goes, i rarely get sick, so don't think it is too depressed.
i haven't used the other  formulas.
neither are sweet potatoes, so i've been told.
it cleared me up in 2 days but as i started to wean off the medication my eczema started up all over again.
we are going to see a chiro on monday on next week, while he did not think spin manip was the way to go he had a plan called b.e.s.t. that we are going to try.
regarding evening primrose oil: i took it for 3 yrs for fibromyalgia and  severe pms.
he is not sleeping well even with the periactin.
but i use an exfoliating body glove on the rough dry spots.
for example, when isaac's skin was terrible, by age 8 or 9 months, our doctors assured us that he was "atopic," (we both had allergies as kids; my husband still has them), and that it was very likely that he'd a) be in the 40% of babies who kept their eczema for their whole lives; and b) develop athsma when he got older.
he took a tongue depressor and touched the back of my throat with it
kids are smart--they'll find all kinds of ways to substitute for what they know they need, but aren't getting.
he wanted to "talk and play" so it must not have been as painful as it looked.
i haven't been using the shampoo long enough to see how it works.
but he also  seemed a little embarrassed (or maybe even mad).
i'd thought that interrupting him would just make him more frustrated, or angry (he sure reacted that way!).
whether or not it is safe is relative to your point of view regarding the long term effects of using steroids.
i still have problems with all of those things, though especially to eggs, and any nuts.
any way, i wanted to get some feedback from the group.
my eczema was most active on my hands, and feet, though at  times it attacked my ears badly.
date: 7 feb 1997 13:26:01 from: christie subject: antibacterial lotion & soap shelley, just a word of caution with hibiclens.
most people  really are not malicious, they simply do not know.
however, he is not at all bothered by it--he prefers it.
the problem is that you must take it the way it says, or it will cease to have an effect.
we used to get  concerned these food "sensitivities," but we've gotten so used to  them that we don't get so concerned about them now.
he never gave  me any problems going back and forth from breast and bottle.
they predict it based on  family histories of allergies.
i might drop one and see what happens.
since my level was low they thought that it may have had an effect on my hormones and adrenals.
i don't think it is widely-used because there were only two  bottles on the shelf and they look like they've been there for a while.
i still prefer ointments because for  me, greasy is better.
it looks so much more "allergic" than it used to.
date: 24 feb 1997 11:26:00 from: ann subject: sarna/central heating someone mentioned something called sarna as an anti-itch lotion that gives the skin a "cooling sensation."
date: 27 feb 1997 14:03:18 from: robert subject: cyclosporine interesting that you have been taking prednisone at low dosage for 13 years... do you think that it is doing anything for you after that length of time?
but here we go (these are all taken twice a day): along with this, i treat the condition further with schering's elocon ointment (0.1%) (a steroid cream; not regularly), and vaseline intensive care lotion: sensitive dry skin w/ oatmeal.
(you see, there is no indoor heat in china.)
then last month he fell off even that curve, and our doctors were  concerned that we have more than eczema to worry about.
i've been giving her an antihistimine once at  bedtime lately too.
date: 11 feb 1997  16:18:38 from: john subject: colloids - egyptian cotton sheets a good example of a colloid is milk!
(her face still looked real good at this point so he wasn't just reading her.)
before we did that daniel was awake every 20 minutes to an hour scratching and crying.
we are going to see a chiro on monday on next week, while he did not think  spin manip was the way to go he had a plan called b.e.s.t. that we are going to  try.
the reason it's still used is that it's absolutely necessary to produce a  certain type of emulsion; it's not just something that's added, it's something  you need when you want to produce a so-called "vanishing cream".
why not have a theme for your wedding then you can wear a dress that covers  you and just say you like "traditional" or whatever.
i was very self-conscious about it.
i just used it because the pharmacist said it was good stuff for eczema.
i have never had eczema, but some of my insights that i use to help isaac come from growing up with a younger sister who was very debilitated by it.
either my husband or i  have to stay with her or else she'll start scratching.
i nursed him for just over 5 months and our doctors all  said he probably didn't have food allergies.
i am in the process of researching antibacterial lotions and soaps and am finding the same phenomenon of very similar ingredients with a wide range of prices.
i switch off with cortisones, zinc oxide ointment and zinc pyrithione 2%.
then we'd say, "i'm going to try to help you!"
i have no scrupulous scientific evidence, but i have a suspicion this is down to taking valerian to aid sleep (i've taken everything and this works!) and liberal applications of tcp to deal with a recent bout of folliculitis.
again, this is only my way of treating the problem, and it differs from  person to person; depending on allergies, etc.
never had any thrush or any sign of candida, no ear infection or use of antibiotic .
could the pressure from the birth canal have caused damage to her craniosacral system?
when that didn't help much i took her to a derm.
when i put that on, i can almost hear my skin gulping it down.
has eczema on his face, scalp, and a few spots on his body.
the chiropractor seems like he's just rubbing and gently pushing specific  spots while she's positioned a few different ways: me sitting, her leaning against me chest to chest
(i notice, with new  understanding, how beautiful my mother looked in 1945 in her long-sleeved  "old fashioned" gown!)
all the rest (habit, self-comfort) probably has a small role, but usually declines dramatically when the primary stimulus is gone.
from: ralph subject:  dermatitis herpetiformis i received the following note about ten days ago, and am finally getting  around to passing it along.
he seemed to be happy that i  figured out (or at lease i think i figured out) one of the culprits
date: 13 feb 1997 11:23:24 from: debbie subject:
i'm not sure what he'll find for me if i need a cortisone cream in the future (which unfortunately i'm sure i will)
i had it really bad all over my belly
date: 21 feb 1997 13:38:40 from: tina subject: stop scratching
so jodi  will have to go fetch it again.
date: 27 feb 1997 17:03:10 from: tina subject: bad night w/baby
there are still mild patchy outbreaks from time to  time, but it's not nearly as bad as it was.
every time we saw her  over those years, it was inevitable that she would, at some point in the visit,  bring up the matter of his weight, either with him directly or through me.
haven't even needed the hot water trick for itching in the past week or so.
date: 7 feb 1997 17:24:58 from: shelley subject: gamma interferon
no, isaac didn't/doesn't get soy formula.
they are raised by just one or two swipes of his scratching, and they last for about ten minutes, then go away.
now how do you control all the variables so you can find causes?date: 11 feb 1997 22:12:14 from: kim subject: healing psoriasis: the natural alternative i am thinking of purchasing the book.
i only use it at night due to its thickness and 'stickiness', not due to its smell...
your daughter is on the same diet as my son but we have not embarked on the chinese herbs.
>> usually the md will give you a steroidal drug.
heather- wedding dress
btw: i agree that if you tell people you have eczema, more often than not they say things like,
for the full text story, see http://www.merc.com/stories/cgi/story.cgi?id=1693630-6ca  when people said don't scratch, all it has ever done is made me feel guilty about it, like if i had enough will-power, i could control myself.
re: scars from herpes infection.
during my "fasting" phase, her skin cleared up 100%.
because his strongest allergy was  to peas and peanuts, we just decided not to mess around with soy (and our  allergist agreed).
from: peter subject: scalp royce, you may want to try satina 'd' wash lotion - it's good for all over  the body
eye problems: keratoconus
i have pored over medical journals, written to researchers, and still can't  find anyone who will say what/if the negative side effects of evening primrose  oil are.
date: 23 feb 1997 09:51:53 from: wayne subject: triludan (terfenadine) i found a posting i made to this list on sep 10, 95 that refers to a warning i read about in the national psoriasis foundation's pharmacy newsletter (v6#2, jul 94, p9).
the anticholinergic effects of terfandine may be increased by drgus which  have anticholinergic effects.
she's never had a clear day since she got eczema at 2 wks.
he almost always has a few on his face these days--isolated little raised circles, whitish, that look like what a mosquito bite looks like in the first minute or two after you get it.
date: 26 feb 1997 16:20:52 from: rita subject: ribomunyl vaccine & chinese herbal treatment
my skin seems to tolerate any oil except baby oil.
if  she's itchy, she still wakes up anyway though.
two or three days a  month i spend raging around my house, my mind going 100 miles an hour, going  over and over and over my notes, articles, the labels of foods and vitamins,  just trying to find the thing i missed that will make the whole picture make  sense.
but mainly i just wanted to offer some emotional support for what is  certainly a difficult situation.
itchy babies and struggling moms i have been reading alot about nursing and eczema and allergies on this  list.
often isaac would look away, or get this vacant look in his eyes, and keep scratching.
the more i deal with this, the more convinced i am of the bacterial/fungal connection plus stress.
date: 14 feb 1997 12:58:04 from: bob subject:
although he did tell me to expect a few  more cycles of good and bad times before healing.
i have gotten many compliments from friends and family on the condition of my facial skin, my eyes (which were typically so bloodshot that it looked as if i had been on an extended bender) and the fact that i look rested.
gagging wendy: ain't having eczema enough to make anybody gag???date: 27 feb 1997 18:56:14 from: shanon subject:
do whatever you can do to keep your focus off your skin so that whatever its condition, it won't take centerstage.
oh, i used to have it, but fortunately i outgrew it; or, yes, isn't that awful, my daughter has it, or things like that.
mac has not been well lately, he had a fever  siezure on sunday.
my wife and children have noted a definite positive change  in my demeanour.
i'm also getting married this summer
i know things will get easier when juliet has passed her terrible two and jodi's immune system gets stronger.
this includes antipsychotics and antidepressants.
during bonnie's teens the reactions slowed down, and she seemed to have "outgrown" most of her problems.
note that seldane is an antihistamine that is not supposed to make you sleepy, and the ketoconazole, i assume, is an antibiotic (because the warning mentions that it is used to treat skin infections).date: 23 feb 1997 23:07:16 from: faith subject: faith's delimma thanks, everyone, for some great ideas on how to deal with my husband on this.
i was using a very potent steroid for about 4 months last year.
i did some natural chicken broth for soup
but yes, what is this  miracle cure?
the  guy had a terrible "bedside manner," and i was so pissed off at his  seeming disregard for what *i* needed that i didn't follow his advice.
he was concerned that she was pretty tight again, out of the blue.
date: 11 feb 1997 12:04:29 from: debbie subject: julia's infant eczema the chiropractor seems like he's just rubbing and gently pushing specific spots while she's positioned a few different ways: i'm trying to work on it from both ends.
but if she's really itchy the antihistimine doesn't do a thing--she'll still wake up all night.
this seemed to help him, but it takes a lot of attention.
but if i could have gotten over the hurt from his manner, and enlisted my husband's help in figuring out a new diet (instead of feeling defensive because he agreed with the guy's recommendation), it probably would have helped isaac.
(just like with homeopathy.)
sarna is an over-the-counter anti-itch lotion; it comes in an 8 oz. pump bottle and smells a bit medicinal, like ben-gay or something mentholated.
in all, it was a total of 9 days in a row of gradual improvement and great sleep.
the list goes on and on...
so i stopped breastfeeding about about five months, but the allergies  were all rolling by then.
and avoiding the antibiotics and steroids.
glycerine is a different thing, though.
i would put money on a bet that in the next twenty years, they will find that antibiotics and steroids contribute to the progression from eczema to athsma...
after sending my posting about ointments vs. creams, i got that uncertain feeling and went to check my elocon tube.
any theories of your own?date: 18 feb 1997 19:25:39 from: patsy subject: psorelief a friend called to tell me she'd caught the last few seconds of an md on television talking about psorelief.
i would also recommend that when you clean him, clean him thoroughly.
not foods, not diet, not animals big or small.
it took a while, but i've gotten over the guilt, and realized that it wasn't something i wanted to give him, it's just part of life and heredity.
date: 27 feb 1997 10:35:29 from: ann subject: misc.
it is just as soothing as aveeno and a lot less expensive.
wishing you all a day, like i had today, no itching (i got so much done!)date: 25 feb 1997 06:37:57 from: debi subject: kim/son infections i have read about the great success eczema sufferers have with the beach initially.
i sometimes wonder if i had had a flare up when i was pregnant with jodi, she would not have had her e.date: 21 feb 1997 11:45:22 from: tina subject:
date: 3 feb 1997 10:40:21 from: marilyn subject: coffee i talked about coffee inhibiting homeopathic remedies.
put him on a four-day rotation diet (only gets a particular food once  every four days) from age 14 mos.
this is just as effective as the steroid.
even  the rest of her skin is becoming "baby soft" everywhere!
when i got home last evening, brian looked so much better already.
we use topical steroid creams when he gets real bad only about once or twice every couple of weeks but they scare me.
since she was no where near  raw/bleeding/oozing this time she's practically clear after only 2 days of no  real itching.
i've tried it twice, but i must say, the second time i had a very itchy night.
if i hear from the lady, i'll relay.
he used to have eczema everywhere - special attention to diet seems to help the eczema on his face/body.
i have gotten many compliments from friends and  family on the condition of my facial skin, my eyes (which were typically so  bloodshot that it looked as if i had been on an extended bender) and the fact  that i look rested.
i really want to avoid messing up her immune system even more and possibly contracting other auto-immune diseases.
doctors tell us that the cold shower closes the pores.
date: 27 feb 1997 12:01:13 from: kay subject:
the condition of her spine always coincides with the  state of her eczema.
there would't be any allergies, not many kids really have  allergies.
very different from the fishy smell of the preparation h idea i got off this list.
i have been putting up with the general public asking about daniel's skin since he was only a couple weeks old---but it really hit hard at my older son's preschool when a little girl pointed at daniel and asked "what happened to him?"
we'd play the game, and he'd stop.
the different houses that i have lived in have been the pattern.
i just went to the eye doctor last week and asked if there was any connection.
it's just what chiropractic med.
but, why not eat oatmeal for  breakfast?
now it doesn't take a rocket scientist to at least suspect it.
if your eczema shows on the big day, you pin the wrap on with a brooch, if not, you just nonchalantly put it on and take it off as you wish.
i use desowen lotion often; supposedly it is one of the lowest potent steroids.
peanut being bad enough to need to tote the epi-pen!
date: 12 feb 1997 08:54:10 from: gary subject: longs scalp relief  medicine i don't know which of these might be marketed in the uk, but here are three  similar formulations that were on the shelf together.
my dermatologist said to avoid tide.
i used to get eczema behind my knees, inside my elbows and on my neck only, now it can appear anywhere at all (except i never had the problem with my hands).
i find that the best thing for me from my wife is that she just accept that i am constantly in motion touching here and scratching there.
my son is still in diapers so i am looking to clean his clothes that aren't really dirty (after all it is winter, so he can't even find mud).
several of my siblings suffer from rhinitis.
check out the ingredients of a lot of cremes and bath oils, the number one ingredient is mineral oil.
this book talks about the misalignment of the spine causing psoriasis and eczema problems.
date: 18 feb 1997 12:08:23 from: susan subject: a newcomer we think that isaac's eczema is related to allergies, but we have not been able to pin down exactly what he's sensitive to.
desowen lotion we use desonide cream on our 16 mo old son every now and then.
though i am sure it is different for different people; i suppose i am very lucky.
our building is 5 years old.
it is a lot cheaper than anything we've found in capsules, including borage oil (another source of gla).
date: 10 feb 1997 14:23:09 from: marilyn subject: eczema  & wedding dress: need support!
i used to put on loads of moisturiser, but after a while i found it wasn't really necessary - i didn't dry out that much.
date:  11 feb 1997 22:12:14 from: kim subject:
hello again i am finding all this very interesting because all these children sound just like my son daniel.
i am going to try head and shoulders first, since there is some of that in my bathroom already.
i developed eczema after taking an antibiotic.
sometimes when he is scratching alot  i lay him across my lap and rub his back and down his legs.
although he did tell me to expect a few more cycles of good and bad times before healing.
that simple gesture means so much to me.
so far he's had rice cereal, bananas, green beans, corn (i think had a reaction), sweet potatoes, carrots, butternut squash (yuk!), and turkey (just tried this week).
and had a broken collar bone.
i'd had gestational diabetes for the last 2 months of pregnancy,  which i controlled with diet, not drugs, so i just couldn't get enough to eat.
when you itch, you scratch.
as long as i don't rub too long or hard & irritate my skin it can actually make it feel soft (even normal sometimes).date: 27 feb 1997 11:19:25 from: alvaro subject:
" still haven't been to the ped.
thinking... there must be something i can do to help.
"vegan cooking" -- eva batt... another thorsons title.
the list of pollens, molds, foods, danders, etc. to which she has tested as severely allergic is mind-bending.
shows up  every time.
he will  lay there as long as i want to rub.
then, i was taking cyclosporine for a year and wasn't itchy.
when i am nervous or hot, it is much worse
hello again i am finding all this very interesting because all these children sound  just like my son daniel.
i was thinking of making a paste of zinc oxide and hypoallergenic brownish  lipstick for covering the rash but my eczema has subsided so much that i don't  even use much zinc oxide anymore.
the following week lets talk about ointments, creams, external aids.
i keep some in the refrigerator: the coolness on my skin is nice sometimes.
anyway, this weekend she was completely clear for the first time ever!!!!!
we had to pull him out of a group daycare setting because  his skin got so bad there.
i am greatly impressed with your efforts, especially what you call "training" and "counseling".
and i think the evidence built up by all you good people out there will one day give us all the answer.
it is scented and full of those strange chemicals.
the other day my husband was in restaurant with daniel and a man gave him  his card and recommended trying enzymes.
date: 21  feb 1997 17:03:42 from: christopher subject: nature's biotics where did you find the nature's biotics site?
date: 11 feb 1997 16:18:38 from: john subject: colloids - egyptian cotton sheets a good example of a colloid is milk!
she has bowel movements 2-4 times a day, with her poo looking  either soft-sausage-like or custard-like.
that simple gesture means so much to  me.
i am throwing it out as i have not seen seafood being mentioned here.
then, i simply gorged on ice-cream, milk, and cheese.
i would not have believed this was true until i experienced it!
therefore, he gave me an alcohol based steroid for the scalp (i think it was called textacort).
and she was so slippery i could hardly hold onto her!date: 27 feb 1997 23:51:34 from: karen subject:
she used to warm it up, then rub it into my scalp, then leave it on for about an hour.
once we have the allergy testing done, i think/hope it will be very helpful in controlling his eczema (especially on his face).
but it contains the best aging protective (according to my derm dr.)
as we all know, and  you would think all doctors would know, we all react differently to things.
turns out she was allergic to that, too.
our dr. also says that e, allergies and asthma all go together.
the killer is that these things are available for sale widely and that you can't check people haven't got the other drugs it interacts with.
i myself do more damage with fabric than with short smooth fingernails.
it was a method that i stopped using (for some strange reason) a few years ago, and that is why i could not recall anything about it, until my mother told me that i did that at one time.
date: 20 feb 1997 23:57:02 from: christopher subject: eczema digest bill, please post this new miracle vitamin regimen to the list!
when i suggested them one time while talking with him, he shrugged them off.
linda--i had a question about the breast-feeding advice from your dermatologist.
i'd had gestational diabetes for the last 2 months of pregnancy, which i controlled with diet, not drugs, so i just couldn't get enough to eat.
i was convinced that there was a connection at the time but can't be sure.
this is expensive, but it's helped him, and we hope that eventually he'll be  able to tolerate other environments more easily.
of going twice a week)
it took the second application, but she never had the problem again.
it has some interesting information about enzymes and their effect on allergies, also on enzyme therapy.
i think some of us with eczema live somewhat parallel lives.
date: 19  feb 1997 11:24:25 from: patsy subject:
that i'm not yet sure about: my 12 month old, julia, was exactly like this (very bloody and oozy all over face) from 7 mos.
it's basically ground up pig pancreases, or something gross like that.
eventually, we'd get his attention, and then we could  talk about the challenge at hand ("it looks like your blue truck is stuck  under the couch... ".
from what i understand, leaky gut is an increase in intestinal permeability which results in toxins, antigens etc.
what that tells me is, if we don't come up with anything in this round of  testing, i'll just have to drop the guy and move on to the next doctor, or  naturopath, or whatever.
(i notice, with new understanding, how beautiful my mother looked in 1945 in her long-sleeved "old fashioned" gown!)
needless to say, i didn't get much sleep last night because after i went back to bed, i was just too upset!
i took cyclosporine because i too was going nowhere with steroids and couldn't get better.
it gives me hope that we can do  something to break this cycle of scratching that our kids are just building  now.
he didn't realize  it but that made me even more self-conscious than i already am.
during the whole time when she was taking the decoction, no emollient was allowed.
and i had no reaction.
date: 10 feb 1997 22:10:57 from: marilyn i hate these looks too.
was isaac real bad when he first came in, etc.?
(i no longer sleep with socks sewn to the ends of my pj's to keep from itching.
then, she had a viral attack.
i wouldn't be able to truck over there every 2 weeks.
date: 15 feb 1997 16:43:12 from:
even  if you don't eat it, your body will make it from something else.
have you been researching "leaky gut?"
she seems to recover from the aveeno bath just today and i'm definitely not trying anything new on her for a while.
from:  debi subject: e baby foods i have been fortunate to work with a nutritionist who has provided me with  lists of foods to test.
and she always had new stupid theories to  make me feel bad, make me feel like i had to follow her out-of-the-blue ideas.
sweat purges infections just a theory to add to the sun/ocean therapeutic affects we know about.
" when i start scratching, i immediately put some lotion on, or anti-itch  cream (sarna) or steroid ointment, depending on how the e. looks (dry, bumpy,  etc.).
i dumped a friend largely because she was so goopy  feel-sorry-for-me it made me sick.
i had tried chinese herbal treatment on her before when western medicine had failed her but the results had never been so successful.
it is a charming book, and you can read it in a couple of hours.
felt great all through pregnancy, needed no medication or had no complications at all.
everyone used  to try & make me feel better by saying that i was the only one who noticed  it and now i realize that it's not necessarily true.
from the air, then it must also drag water out of any other surface it's in  contact with, in this case the skin.
i have been fortunate to have doctors who always prescribe ointments rather than creams.
any suggestions?date: 14 feb 1997 11:18:19 from: debbie subject:
i tried primrose oil along time ago and don't remember that it helped much but since your post, i think i will try it again.
from: tina subject: stop scratching
i  have noticed that a good vitamin regimen has almost eliminated the itching (it  got to the point at one time that i wished i had a wire brush to scratch with),  as well as induced healing.
incidentally, i'm intending to confront him with my need/desire to find a permanent solution to this -- i want him (or someone he could refer me to) to help me track down the triggering allergen(s).
that was about the age that she had been eating more foods.
our allergist gave us a long list of medications (antihistamines and others) that our daughter was not to use for at least one week prior to testing, as use of certain meds can alter test results.
if you want to read all about it see: the british medical association new guide to medicines and drugs.
it is good to know there are other parents out there that have a hard time  getting there little ones attention to stop itching.
so when i turned on the lamp to look at the damages, i never expected what i saw -- the entire left side of his face and ear were red, bloody, and oozing.
so beware of this side effect when using cort.
i understand the problem occurs in combination with certain antibiotics - including erythromycin - interesting since a lot of us have probably had the case of antibiotics and triludan!date: 17 feb 1997 18:31:52 from: anil subject:
the homeopathic md suggested vitamin therapy for mac, first and foremost  the colloidal minerals.
ultimately, he has managed to lose much of the weight  (and she's quite proud of him for it!), but it had nothing to do with her  harassment and everything to do with finding a way to do it that he could live  with.
they seem to  last longer than other sheets and still look great after a couple of years of  frequent washing.
i love this book --- it organizes recipes for one by week, complete with weekly shopping lists.
i'm most inclined to think that it's a case where everything is working together towards the same end cure.
let it out, and let it go as much  as possible.
i like the alpha keri (i look for the generic brands of it) because it penetrates my tough skin and makes it soft.
regarding the antibiotic cause/trigger: i've read that antibiotics are rough on the stomach, particularly in an allergic person.
please note, that the vitamin regimen i listed above needs to have vitamin c added to it.
since you were interested in the "good" foods i figured the "bad" ones might be of interest too: i believe that the overuse of cortisone creams all my life has caused some problems.
and sure enough we had just had a horrible night's sleep, which was the beginning of a bad 3-day cycle.
i found it long ago, but lost it, and can't find it.
i have noticed that since i  have kept it at the two capsules a day, it has had no more effect, and its  effect has actually lessened.
the important thing is to read all labels.
the daily recipes take only about 30 minutes to prepare... the sunday meal takes a little longer.
and solutions  are just so similar to many of ours on this list.
date: 19 feb 1997 14:58:13 from:  david subject:
that stuff sounds great--i should  probably be taking it too!
i don't see a difference on me.
hope mac's illness is improving...
people are finding the right combinations of vitamins, diets, allergen avoidance, emotional assistance, etc., and are actually getting better.
i think the name of the drop is called infant care vitamin drop.
but there are a lot of ingredients in it (i think one of  which is not the greatest for my skin)
you'll get through this... date: 11 feb 1997 14:25:37 from:  royce subject: polypropylene glycol i also thought that polypropylene glycol was not used in ointments but my  dr. was going through all his little sample boxes and found that every one of  them contained that ingredient.
old until about 11 mos.
as for interactions with other drugs, antifungal drugs (including  ketoconazole and itraconazole) and the antibiotic erthromycin increase  terfenadine levels and may affect the heart.
also, at one point the dermatologist had us using crisco (has to be this brand) lard.
debbie, thanks for the reply, he was a little worse this a.m. with lots of itching in the night, even spots that don't look bad, the back of his knees always itch at night.
the great news was that he weighed 20 lbs, 15 oz--a gain of a whole pound.
i have, maybe that makes a difference.
i do send him a special treat when other kids are getting something  special for a party or whatever.