search the isis website views and goods advertized are not necessarily endorsed by science in society or the inst.
tcm physicians, for their part, face pressure from  hospitals to use revenue-generating biomedical diagnostic facilities such as  ultrasound and computed tomography.
a comprehensive dossier containing more than 160 fully referenced articles from the science in society archives.
the world health organisation unveiled its first global strategy for traditional and complementary alternative medicine in january 2002, to promote integrating traditional medicine into national health systems globally.
now updated buy now|more info gmo free: exposing the hazards of biotechnology to ensure the integrity of  our food supply buy now|more info join the i-sis mailing list; enter your email address © 1999-2012 the institute of science in society contact the institute of science in society
at the same time, however, the scientific status of tcm is not being doubted, it is decreeda priori by the state.
a familiar sight that has remained  unchanged over the years of turmoil in china is the morningqigong exercises practiced in the streets by millions of chinese people.
traditional chinese medicine enjoys high status in china, which is good for the health of the nation.
it is defined as a national treasure, which might have further insulated it from debate as a science.
more importantly, self-prescribed, ready-made chinese medicines are an  important part of the people’s therapeutic regime.
a comprehensive dossier containing more than 160  fully referenced articles from the science in society archives.
although most chinese people may believe in the superior diagnostic  powers of western biomedicine, many prefer tcm treatments particularly for  chronic diseases where the side effects of western biomedicine are seen,  rightly, to often far outweigh the benefits.
there are almost 3000 dedicated hospitals for tcm, and over 95% of western medical hospitals also have fully-fledged chinese medicine wards and outpatient departments.
of science in society.
chinese people take responsibility for their own health most seriously, and the use of medicine and disease prevention forms a continuum with food and nutrition.
order your copy from our  online store.
printer friendly version i-sis is a not-for-profit organisation, depending on donations, membership  fees,subscriptions, and merchandise sales to continue its work.
more importantly, self-prescribed, ready-made chinese medicines are an important part of the peoples therapeutic regime.
the chinese government is pressing hard for the systematisation of tcm disease categories, diagnostic standards, and therapeutic techniques, and to enforce a more stringent evaluation of therapeutic outcomes.
tcm is practiced in its own right, integrated with western medicine, or  used to enhance the effectiveness of western medical treatments.
for example, there are efforts to prohibit the use of endangered species in preparation of tcm drugs, and to use research methods acceptable to the dominant international drugs market, although this may not be appropriate in many cases, and reflects an unquestioned acceptance of the dominant reductionist medical model (see globalisation chinese medicine, this series).
though such a debate should include a thorough critique on  the conceptual and practical deficiencies of the mainstream scientific model  itself, which is not what the majority who wants a debate has in mind.
at the same time,  however, the scientific status of tcm is not being doubted, it is decreeda  priori by the state.
there are almost 3000  dedicated hospitals for tcm, and over 95% of western medical hospitals also  have fully-fledged chinese medicine wards and outpatient departments.
tcm is practiced in its own right, integrated with western medicine, or used to enhance the effectiveness of western medical treatments.
traditional chinese medicine (tcm) is fully institutionalised and supported  by the chinese government, and very much a part of the contemporary chinese  healthcare system.
for  permission, pleasecontact isis
tcm is also used by the china to promote chinese culture.
printer friendly version i-sis is a not-for-profit organisation, depending on donations, membership fees,subscriptions, and merchandise sales to continue its work.
now updated buy now|more info gmo free:
dr. mae-wan ho reports.
one must remember, however, that tcm has thousands of years of accumulated experience and knowledge behind it, and the governments support for it is crucial to prevent the kind of inter-professional struggles with the dominant western biomedical model that have impeded the wide adoption of traditional medicines in other countries such as malaysia and india.
the need to promote positive perceptions of tcm abroad is forcing internal changes, nevertheless.
exposing the hazards of biotechnology to ensure the integrity of our food supply buy now|more info join the i-sis mailing list; enter your email address © 1999-2012 the institute of science in society contact the institute of science in society
sources and references for this article are posted on isis  members’ website.
sources and references for this article are posted on isis members website.
this is  an opportunity to build safe, affordable and effective national health systems,  especially for third world countries rich in both medicinal plant resources and  traditional knowledge.
tcm physicians, for their part, face pressure from hospitals to use revenue-generating biomedical diagnostic facilities such as ultrasound and computed tomography.
it could be argued that the strongest proof of the efficacy of tcm is the  high level of public support in china.
it delivers almost 40% of total healthcare services, and like western biomedicine, is predominantly based in hospitals.
although most chinese people may believe in the superior diagnostic powers of western biomedicine, many prefer tcm treatments particularly for chronic diseases where the side effects of western biomedicine are seen, rightly, to often far outweigh the benefits.
this includes a bewildering array of quick dissolve herbal health drinks for treating or preventing a range of diseases, from cancer and diabetes to inflammation, influenza and toxicity; or else, like ginseng, they simply regulate the body to promote a general state of health.
the chinese government is pressing hard for the systematisation of tcm  disease categories, diagnostic standards, and therapeutic techniques, and to  enforce a more stringent evaluation of therapeutic outcomes.
find out more  about membershiphere recent publications celebrating isis - quantum jazz biology - 100 page book featuring  essays and selected artwork from the 2011 isis event of the same name order now|preview green energies - 100% renewable by 2050 “a must-read for saving  the climate” order now|more info the rainbow and the worm, the physics of organisms “probably the  most important book for the coming scientific revolution” now in its third  edition buy now|more info food futures now: *organic *sustainable *fossil fuel free how organic  agriculture and localised food (and energy) systems can potentially compensate  forall greenhouse gas emissions due to human activities and free us  from fossil fuels buy now|more info the only radical science magazine on earth science in society  53out now!
this includes a  bewildering array of ‘quick dissolve’ herbal health drinks for  treating or preventing a range of diseases, from cancer and diabetes to  inflammation, influenza and toxicity; or else, like ginseng, they simply  ‘regulate the body’ to promote a general state of health.
for example, there are efforts to prohibit the use of  endangered species in preparation of tcm drugs, and to use research methods  acceptable to the dominant international drugs market, although this may not be  appropriate in many cases, and reflects an unquestioned acceptance of the  dominant reductionist medical model (see globalisation chinese medicine, this  series).
in practice, however, the distinction among the three ways of delivering tcm is blurred.
western biomedical concepts and ideas have been assimilated into chinese medicine, and western drugs are routinely prescribed in chinese-medicine wards and outpatients departments.
a familiar sight that has remained unchanged over the years of turmoil in china is the morningqigong exercises practiced in the streets by millions of chinese people.
it delivers almost 40% of total healthcare services, and like western  biomedicine, is predominantly based in hospitals.
the need to promote positive perceptions of tcm abroad is forcing internal  changes, nevertheless.
this is an opportunity to build safe, affordable and effective national health systems, especially for third world countries rich in both medicinal plant resources and traditional knowledge.
china will be closely watched as an example, for better or for worse, as she is actively pushing for global acceptance of her traditional remedies and competing in the global drugs market.
in practice,  however, the distinction among the three ways of delivering tcm is blurred.
the  ingredients are typically a mixture of well-known herbs and flowers or food  items.
traditional chinese medicine (tcm) is fully institutionalised and supported by the chinese government, and very much a part of the contemporary chinese healthcare system.
the ingredients are typically a mixture of well-known herbs and flowers or food items.
the world health organisation unveiled its first global strategy for  traditional and complementary alternative medicine in january 2002, to promote  integrating traditional medicine into national health systems globally.
one must remember, however, that tcm has thousands of years of accumulated  experience and knowledge behind it, and the government’s support for it is  crucial to prevent the kind of inter-professional struggles with the dominant  western biomedical model that have impeded the wide adoption of traditional  medicines in other countries such as malaysia and india.
it could be argued that the strongest proof of the efficacy of tcm is the high level of public support in china.
traditional medicine in contemporary china traditional chinese medicine enjoys high status in china, which is good  for the health of the nation.
it is defined as  a ‘national treasure’, which might have further insulated it from  debate as a science.
material on this  site may not be reproduced in any form without explicit permission.
though such a debate should include a thorough critique on the conceptual and practical deficiencies of the mainstream scientific model itself, which is not what the majority who wants a debate has in mind.
home biotechnology science of the organism science in society publications search the isis website isis members area log in views and goods advertized are not necessarily endorsed by science in  society or the inst.
order your copy from our online store.
find out more about membershiphere recent publications celebrating isis - quantum jazz biology - 100 page book featuring essays and selected artwork from the 2011 isis event of the same name order now|preview green energies - 100% renewable by 2050 a must-read for saving the climate order now|more info the rainbow and the worm, the physics of organisms probably the most important book for the coming scientific revolution now in its third edition buy now|more info food futures now: *organic *sustainable *fossil fuel free how organic agriculture and localised food (and energy) systems can potentially compensate forall greenhouse gas emissions due to human activities and free us from fossil fuels buy now|more info the only radical science magazine on earth science in society 53out now!
china will be closely watched as an example, for better  or for worse, as she is actively pushing for global acceptance of her  traditional remedies and competing in the global drugs market.
chinese people take responsibility for their own health most seriously, and  the use of medicine and disease prevention forms a continuum with food and  nutrition.
western biomedical concepts and ideas have been assimilated into chinese  medicine, and western drugs are routinely prescribed in chinese-medicine wards  and outpatients departments.