preventing fleas has always been easier  or safer— and much more economical in the long run — than trying to  get rid of them after they’ve infested...
read more new vaccination protocol posted by admin in cats/dogs on may 13, 2010 |no comments this is welcome news and should be taken with you to your vet should you need reinforcement against over-vaccination.
there are very few obese wolves!
that’s  the bad news.
they reflect a weakened immune system.
read more save on pet care posted by admin in cats/dogs, pets and people on  july 8, 2010 |no comments save on pet care let’s not kid ourselves:  things are tight, and people are learning to make do with less.
no  comments for those who choose to think for themselves what makes this  difficult is that billions of dollars are spent to convince you, your breeder,  your vet, your government (all levels), and most of your pet owning friends,  that you must vaccinate your animal every year, feed only scientifically 100%  balanced...
normal  cells grow, divide and die in an orderly fashion.
posted by  admin incats/dogs, pets and people on may 13, 2010 |
he will review your pet’s medical records and provide you with advice regarding the best conventional and holistic veterinary treatment options....
last » archives - july 2011 - june 2011 - may 2011 - april 2011 - march 2011 - january 2011 - november 2010 - october 2010 - september 2010 - august 2010 - july 2010 - june 2010 - may 2010 - april 2010 - march 2010 - january 2010 - december 2009 - november 2009 - october 2009 - september 2009 - august 2009 - july 2009 - june 2009 - may 2009 - april 2009 - march 2009 - january 2009 - december 2008 - june 2008 categories - allergies - behavior - cats/dogs - holistic care - laparoscopy - medication - mobile care unit - nutrition - pet industry - pets and people - stem cell therapy blogroll - advanced care for pets - petwebdesigner search meta © copyright carepaw.com 2008.
unfortunately, some pests can be more than just a nuisance – they can pose a threat to your pet’s health.
i would like to make you aware that all 27 veterinary schools in north america are in the process of changing their protocols for vaccinating dogs and cats.
read more flea prevention: a good investment posted by admin in cats/dogs,  holistic care on june 8, 2010 | no comments the current economic downturn  has many pet owners looking for ways to cut back on expenses, but one way that  does not make sense is flea prevention.
read more hay fever in dogs posted by admin in allergies, cats/dogs on may 13,  2010 |no comments hay fever in dogs allergies are common in dogs, as in  people these days.
no comments for those who choose to think for themselves what makes this difficult is that billions of dollars are spent to convince you, your breeder, your vet, your government (all levels), and most of your pet owning friends, that you must vaccinate your animal every year, feed only scientifically 100% balanced...
read more for those who choose to think for themselves posted by admin in  cats/dogs, nutrition, pet industry, pets and people on may 27, 2010 |
by phone posted by admin inallergies, behavior, cats/dogs, holistic care, medication, mobile care unit, nutrition, pet industry, pets and people, stem cell therapy on june 29, 2010 |no comments the doctor is in!
in addition to the uncomfortable bites and skin problems...
no comments treatment alternatives for cats and dogs with cancer conventional veterinary  perspective cancer is a disease process in which healthy cells stop functioning  properly and abnormal cells begin growing at an out of control rate.
the good news: you don’t have to shortchange your pets to  save money.
read more save on pet care posted by admin in cats/dogs, pets and people on july 8, 2010 |no comments save on pet care let’s not kid ourselves: things are tight, and people are learning to make do with less.
posted by admin incats/dogs, pets and people on may 13, 2010 |
convenient holistic veterinary care by phone dr. michel selmer, is now available for telephone consultations to help you with your pet.
by focusing on prevention, smart buys and sharing, you can slash what you spend on your...
in the wild, they would spend a good portion of their day walking, trotting and running to pursue prey.
in addition to the  uncomfortable bites and skin problems...
no comments the current economic downturn has many pet owners looking for ways to cut back on expenses, but one way that does not make sense is flea prevention.
read more practical applications of natural therapies posted by admin in cats/dogs, nutrition on may 14, 2010 |
no comments holistic medicine encompasses some of the oldest forms of medicine in the world i.e. herbs; homeopathy; glandulars; acupuncture etc.
in the wild, they would spend a good portion  of their day walking, trotting and running to pursue prey.
no comments treatment alternatives for cats and dogs with cancer conventional veterinary perspective cancer is a disease process in which healthy cells stop functioning properly and abnormal cells begin growing at an out of control rate.
| powered bywordpress | designed by petwebdesigner - log in - valid xhtml - xfn - wordpress
i would like  to make you aware that all 27 veterinary schools in north america are in the  process of changing their protocols for vaccinating dogs and cats.
dogs whohave seasonal symptoms have hay fever, called “atopy”.
no comments exercise dogs and cats were made to move.
some of this information will... read more exercise and your dog will say “thank you”!
unfortunately, some pests can be more than just a nuisance – they can  pose a threat to your pet’s health.
he  will review your pet’s  medical records and provide you with advice regarding the best conventional and  holistic veterinary treatment options....
no comments holistic medicine  encompasses some of the oldest forms of medicine in the world i.e. herbs;  homeopathy; glandulars; acupuncture etc.
convenient holistic  veterinary care by phone dr. michel selmer, is now available for telephone  consultations to help you with your pet.
this can be explained by a buildup of toxins in the tissues and blood, which affects their abiliy to function.
there are very few  obese wolves!
by phone posted by admin inallergies, behavior, cats/dogs, holistic care, medication,  mobile care unit, nutrition, pet industry, pets and people, stem cell therapy  on june 29, 2010 |no comments the doctor is in!
treatment alternatives for cats and dogs with cancer posted by admin  incats/dogs, holistic care, pets and people on july 22, 2010 |
some of this  information will... read more exercise and your dog will say “thank you”!
read more new vaccination protocol posted by admin in cats/dogs on may 13,  2010 |no comments this is welcome news and should be taken with you to  your vet should you need reinforcement against over-vaccination.
read more page 3 of 9 « 1 2 3 4 5  » ...
it seems that the pets who live the longest and suffer from the  fewest health problems get plenty of exercise and fresh foods....
read more practical applications of natural therapies posted by admin in  cats/dogs, nutrition on may 14, 2010 |
dogs whohave seasonal symptoms have hay fever, called  “atopy”.
read more page 3 of 9 « 1 2 3 4 5 » ...
the good news: you don’t have to shortchange your pets to save money.
these forms of medicine are practiced  predominately worldwide and exceed the use of conventional or western medicine  as we know it here in north america.
it seems that the pets who live the longest and suffer from the fewest health problems get plenty of exercise and fresh foods....
read more hay fever in dogs posted by admin in allergies, cats/dogs on may 13, 2010 |no comments hay fever in dogs allergies are common in dogs, as in people these days.
read more protect your pet now posted by admin in cats/dogs, pets and people on june 19, 2010 |no comments now that warm weather is here, so are the fleas, ticks and other parasites that can spoil the season’s fun.
these forms of medicine are practiced predominately worldwide and exceed the use of conventional or western medicine as we know it here in north america.
cats/dogs - carepaw.com currently browsing: cats/dogs - allergies - behavior - cats/dogs - holistic care - laparoscopy - medication - mobile care unit - nutrition - pet industry - pets and people - stem cell therapy treatment alternatives for cats and dogs with cancer posted by admin incats/dogs, holistic care, pets and people on july 22, 2010 |
read more protect your pet now posted by admin in cats/dogs, pets and people  on june 19, 2010 |no comments now that warm weather is here, so are the  fleas, ticks and other parasites that can spoil the season’s fun.
normal cells grow, divide and die in an orderly fashion.
read more for those who choose to think for themselves posted by admin in cats/dogs, nutrition, pet industry, pets and people on may 27, 2010 |
read more the doctor is in!
by focusing on prevention, smart buys and sharing, you can slash  what you spend on your...
read more flea prevention: a good investment posted by admin in cats/dogs, holistic care on june 8, 2010 |
this can be explained  by a buildup of toxins in the tissues and blood, which affects their abiliy to  function.
no comments exercise  dogs and cats were made to move.
preventing fleas has always been easier or safer— and much more economical in the long run — than trying to get rid of them after they’ve infested...
convenient holistic veterinary care