you have chosen to claim that i put up a straw man, or “straw man,” by suggesting that you might tell your patients with morning sickness that ginger could not help them.
“what we’ve tried at georgetown is rather than create all new courses, we take relevant cam issues and modalities and weave them seamlessly into existing courses.
the usual rule about rhetorical questions is: the one who poses the question must know the answer.
can anyone come up with any supporting evidence for that?”
until the compounds in ginger have been tested whether they are  teratogens at what doses remains unknown.
it also makes me wonder: would you try to pressure pregnant women of asian origin to abandon their traditional cuisines, to the extent that those include flavorful plants in greater amounts than [you] used to spice food?
one newer one appeared (u brit.
some herbalists try to tell us the opposite is true, but the evidence  doesn’t support them.
in theory it could have been even worse in the old days, if cow adrenal  glands—with norepinephrine, a very potent natural alpha agonist, several  kinds of steroid hormones, and numerous other molecules that our bodies would  probably not much like—had been ground up and used as either inhaled or  injectable medicines.
they have gathered 35 + med schools for teaching courses and a lesser number for postgraduate training in “cam.”
the plant medicine has evolved to work in harmony with the normal body processes rather than taking over its function as many drug therapies do.
an alternative explanation is that consumers’ perceptions of the effects of most “supplements” are not based on specific biological activity.
i’ve also been involved in several nih/nci-funded projects over the  last six years where my pharmacognosy and med chem colleagues have fractionated  plant extracts that we have then tested for in vitro cytotoxic activity against  human cancer cell lines.
i don’t know how you get from my examples the possible notion that i suggested that consumers of non-european cuisine are in any way “defective”.
political/academic correctness takes care of the  rest.
it’s not just a “perception.”
some studies actually show reduced basal metabolic rate during the first trimester over the non-pregnant state.
and here’s where we come to the most pernicious effect of all of nccam.
in rats the ld50 is 3 g/kg.
integrate material into basic science courses.
http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/410488 apteryx wrote “but if you get a certain result in a bioassay or clinical trial from a whole extract, then can’t find any single molecule that has the same bioactivity profile when given in the same (relatively small) amount as was present in the extract, the only mechanist conclusion possible has to be that there is more than one active molecule present.”
in fact, georgetown’s program is actually coming close, as it is teaching a veritable cornucopia of unscientific methods: the anatomy of acupuncture; stress hormone modulation in physiology; “mechanisms” of acupuncture action in neuroscience; and psychoneuroimmunology in immunology courses.
yet even if that is true, it doesn’t follow that additive or synergistic medicinal effects must exist for substances found in plants that have useful medicinal properties for humans.
if  it’s that easy to find “the” active ingredient and  concentrate it without losing benefits or creating hazards, there’s a lot  of money to be made; why don’t they get cracking?
however, in a plant like hawthorn  it appears that both flavonoids and procyanidins have beneficial bioactivities,  and that multiple compounds in each class are bioactive, so you are not likely  to be able to fish out one molecule and get the same complex in vivo activity  profile.
i’m sorry, pec; i want to like you, in the sense that i’m content to believe that you are sincere but that you are a victim of a woefully inadequate grounding in both science and in critical thinking skills, and for that i feel genuinely sorry for you.
if santa claus gave me a couple hundred million to do a study with thousands of pregnant women, would you accept the results of that study, or would you carp that it was unethical to “put their babies at risk by letting them consume a botanical”?
however, i do assume that hawthorn is better than a nonexistent  drug derived therefrom.
however, over time, these things tend to develop a momentum of their own.
at some dose ginger does have side effects.
nausea is often a normal accompaniment of gastric hypermobility.
since there is no such  pill, consumers will reasonably conclude that some benefit from herbs is better  than zero benefit from big pharma.
varro  tyler was a pharmacologist, not a botanist, and he was considered by herbalists  to be very conservative.
sorry, sorry, i discovered my problem.
whatever the active components, the remedies will always contain other, inactive components, and these might be either useless or counterproductive, harmless or harmful.
anyway, how can you claim that your potent single molecule will be both safer and more effective?
at one point the  anti-war crowd were wearing buttons that read “send joe pyne to  college.”
returning to the titled subject, “cam” teaching in medical schools, i can offer the following, which i hope can add insight into the questions as to “why” we have coe to this.
tobacco has been consumed for centuries.
this is not the ringing endorsement implied by apteryx.
i can certainly identify with apteryx’s enthusiasm for wanting drug companies to isolate and market the pure compounds from herbal products that have some reported potential for biological activity.
the url for the article looks exactly like the one you posted.
adult hypertension is a  known consequence of “stress” in utero.
how do you think they choose which  plants to investigate?
“perhaps as a well-informed doctor, you will go look up the clinical trials.”
in the former case, it’s not a surprise that higher dose means more toxicity.
going in circles unless we get our education right.
i keep reading about contaminants and inconsistent  dosages.
there are so many examples that it would (and does) take whole textbooks to illustrate them, but it’s easy to find several that are relevant to material on sbm.
integrate them into the curriculum because they’re not scientifically validated?
ginseng has dozens of ginsenosides having different activities in  lab studies.
“by learning their own techniques of self-care, students will naturally internalize that and then be able to use it with their patients in the future.
i speculate that the reason that very high no levels are desirable during  the first trimester is that is when most all of the differentiation is  happening and when dna replication and epigenetic programming has to have the  highest fidelity.
and it has antipyretic and analgesic properties.
all the tests i know of showed that they were equal or worse.
ws dr. atwood - i have seen someone (can’t remember who) make the following argument: suppose you were to go into a pharmacy blindfolded, pick either one herbal dietary supplement or one prescription drug derived from a natural product off the shelf at random, then take the whole bottle at once.
don’t we agree that if the same biologically-active molecule is present in the same dose in a pharmaceutically-manufactured pill or in a plant extract, that its biological effect must be the same?
if i come into  your office and suggest trying ginger rather than the side-effect-heavy drug  you might prescribe for my motion sickness, and you go off on a tirade  suggesting, like joe above, that i may belong to a “pseudomedical  cult” or, like daedalus above, that consumers of non-european cuisines  may be somehow defective — well, next time i have a minor condition to  deal with, i will say the heck with you and look for an herbalist.
various forms of shamanism?
they are only going to abandon teaching woo if the cost to teaching woo is higher than the profit.
i suspect there is no method that will reliably reduce nausea in pregnancy without increasing adverse outcomes in pregnancy (at least slightly).
hall and atwood for providing links in response to joe’s query.
drug interactions are a very important topic, and it is not necessary at all to integrate woo into the medical school curriculum to warn future physicians of what herbal medicines might interfere with various drugs.
as a 2001 georgetown medical school alumnus, i just missed the woo-ification of my alma mater, thankfully.
because of the dshea, i can’t trust the purity and dosage  of what’s being sold.
the usual rule about rhetorical questions is: the one who poses the  question must know the answer.
by and large, the botanicals still allowed on our market are very safe.
it is not that the anti-emetics are causing any adverse outcomes, rather more adverse outcomes accompany a low no state.
a few readers probably have asthma.
ka # ellazimm on 18 mar 2008 at 12:16 am sorry to put this on this thread
# zetetic on 18 mar 2008 at 12:03 pm
naturopathy and liberal politics:  strange bedfellows on 20 mar 2009 at 1:02 am [...] of the movement expanded publication.
what about the large majority of the population who are not pregnant?
what do you want to hear?
ka # apteryx on 20 mar 2008 at 9:28 am there are quite a few plants whose activity has been found to split into  multiple fractions in bioassays, or to diminish after fractionation.
perhaps it is because they have looked at these plants and decided that the  evidence isn’t promising enough to make it a good business proposition.
this is not the dire warning implied by joe.
has anyone in recorded history  ever dropped dead from eating stir-fried ginger?
i hope the rest of the day isn’t like this.
part of the “jesuit philosophy” we were told at the very beginning of our training was to approach a problem from as many conceivable directions as necessary.
mixture of thousands of compounds.
students meet in three or four groups of eight to ten people each.
[...] on this very blog, including my (in)famous list of medical schools that have embraced cam and my lament about a medical school that has even gone so far as to “integrate” so-called [...] [...] to what dr. r. w. donnell has termed “quackademic medicine,” but at least one has required it as part of the mandatory medical school curriculum from day one, bringing a whole new meaning to the term “integrative” medicine, as it [...]
because of this herbal medicines may be taken for longer periods of time without the side effects so often experienced with drugs.”
“it is entirely rational for consumers who could benefit from those bioactivities to go on using the plants as people have done for millennia”
maybe ginger does cause problems during pregnancy but perhaps ginger is also good treatment for intestinal parasites native to india and if you have intestinal parasites getting rid of them with ginger is worth the side effects that ginger has.
if an asthmatic who isn’t pregnant inhales albuterol, the main effect is desirable and the side effects are minimal.
the other two articles are on the history of the “cam”  development in no. america and europe.
the late dr. tyler studied pharmacy at the university  of nebraska, was in 1953 the first person to receive a ph.d. in pharmacy from  the university of connecticut, and spent most of his career at purdue’s  “department of pharmacy and pharmacal sciences,” of which he was  for some years the dean.
there is an inverse correlation with nausea levels and adverse  pregnancy outcomes.
if all the schools promote woo, then it does become the “standard of care”.
i won’t get  into the statin argument here except to make a point that may not have been  made before: as drugs go, these are quite new and have a huge upside potential  for improvement.
in the latter case, it actually implies that other molecules in the crude extract interfere with the toxicity of the “active molecule,” which is supporting evidence for the idea that whole plants may be less toxic because they contain multiple compounds with opposing effects.
but if you get a certain  result in a bioassay or clinical trial from a whole extract, then can’t  find any single molecule that has the same bioactivity profile when given in  the same (relatively small) amount as was present in the extract, the only  mechanist conclusion possible has to be that there is more than one active  molecule present.
it would be beyond surprising if the most important organ, the brain were not.
and i reject the argument that a plant-based remedy is safe just because people have used it for centuries without noticing any problems.
salt is a member  of every one of those groups.
consider an example that you cited: google “cocaine” and “local anesthetics” and you’ll quickly find an historical timeline leading from the intriguing but not very useful effects, in the medicinal sense, of coca leaf, to cocaine itself 150 years ago, which is an excellent local anesthetic (it was how local anesthesia was discovered) but has other effects that are undesirable, to the first synthetic analogue, procaine (novocaine, ca. 1910), which lacked those undesirable effects, to lidocaine (ca. 1940), the first really good synthetic la (it has a more rapid onset than procaine, gives a more intense nerve block, and lasts longer), to procainamide, bupivicaine, prilocaine, mepivicaine, ropivicaine, and other synthetic derivatives, each of which has useful distinguishing properties.
in the case of plants and insects, the phenomena are based on more than that: selection pressures imposed by each on the other over hundreds of millions of years.
students can take if they are so inclined, georgetown is taking the next logical step that i feared: it’s dedicating significant educational resources and time to teaching “cam” in itsmandatory general medical curriculum, whereevery student has to learn it: figures on how medical schools are introducing cam education are less definitive.
another example relevant to sbm is cinchona bark, from which quinine was found to be the active antimalarial ingredient, which itself led to the synthesis of the useful drugs quinidine and mefloquine.
moreover, there is no evidence for the safety of the fetus if the mother takes excessive amounts of ginger (more than is used to spice food).
then they go on to residency, where they expand on the basics and progress to more advanced education in their therapy.
as with any medication given during pregnancy, the potential benefit to risk.
if the non-woo schools get the bulk of the donations from non-woo practicing mds, those non-woo schools will persist and become stronger.
the late dr. tyler studied pharmacy at the university of nebraska, was in 1953 the first person to receive a ph.d. in pharmacy from the university of connecticut, and spent most of his career at purdue’s “department of pharmacy and pharmacal sciences,” of which he was for some years the dean.
by “woo-ery,” i was referring to the woo aspects of  herbalism, which does not mean that there are not non-woo aspects, namely,  investigating folk uses to find useful medicinal substances in plants—as  i thought i had made clear from previous examples.
“i am simply fascinated by the promise of herbal mixtures and their components as a source of novel chemistries that have allowed us to find new mechanisms of action to treat diseases.”
i, for one, am very interested in the “hard, involved science”
a few years before that, the only choice for a beta-adrenergic agent would  have been the naturally-occurring epinephrine (adrenaline), which is not only  non-selective between beta-1 and 2 receptors, but also between alpha and beta  receptors.
this increase may be quite modest and  difficult to measure.
maybe they should get that stuff off the market “until it’s tested.”
a proper response would be for the  doctor to look for, and evaluate, the clinical evidence.
now there’s a new view of its usefulness.”
the woo will become “well-established basic science” simply by virtue of its being taught to everyone as though it were, and the standard of care likewise.
that and a (hopefully short) bout of stupidity.
two more examples are antibiotics and narcotics.
it was used for decades by huge numbers of women before the women’s health initiative finally convinced us it did more harm than good.
“but your words above suggest that you would discourage them from using it …” your ability to “read for meaning” is failing you as badly as your ability to read my mind.
ka there are quite a few plants whose activity has been found to split into multiple fractions in bioassays, or to diminish after fractionation.
i don’t like cauliflower; well, it’s got icky-tasting defensive secondary metabolites in it, maybe it’s a teratogen.
apteryx wrote “there are quite a few plants whose activity has been found to split into multiple fractions in bioassays, or to diminish after fractionation.”
some are longer acting, some are shorter acting, some have less effect on  the electrical activity of the heart, which makes them safer for the large  doses used in major nerve blocks, others have specific effects on the heart  that makes them useful as anti-arrhythmics(procainamide), some have greater or  lesser effects on the brain; the entire class of “amide” local  anesthetics, of which lidocaine was the first, is less allergenic than its  “ester” precursors (of which cocaine is one); and more.
a drug company recently tried to develop a pharmaceutical version of  hoodia, but they gave up when they were unable to separate out a hepatotoxic  component.
the fact that your native cuisine disdains pungent flavors and uses pungent vegetables in minuscule quantity does not mean that those plants are dangerous.
in the program’s second year, georgetown aims to double the number of mind-body session groups and introduce cam-related issues in lectures in the pharmacology, microbiology, and pathology courses in the students’ second year of medical school.
regarding the “multicomponent” argument: do you have real evidence of this?
returning to the titled subject, “cam” teaching in medical  schools, i can offer the following, which i hope can add insight into the  questions as to “why” we have coe to this.
you could  make the same claim above about any food plant whatsoever.
to address joe’s remarks for the benefit of other readers: homemade horse chestnut products indeed are unsafe.
i implied that we were  then on an asceding curve of sectarian med entry into medical schools.
to a first approximation it doesn’t matter whether it’s planned that way or just the working of broader dynamics (e.g. the increasing influence of religion and sociologically similar forces in american society.)
taxol, the anticancer drug whose structure was solved by one of my current  senior colleagues, is a special story of a natural compound that made it to the  prescription drug market because the process to synthesize it from a renewable  resource was patented, not the molecule itself.
the gut is nitrergic, suggesting that high no causes both.
many organs are known to be programmed in utero including liver,  heart, vasculature, endocrine system, etc.
if physicians are going to advise patients in makes perfect sense to educate them in relaxation techniques.
sharp knives should be only used by those  proficient in their use so that accidents and abuse is avoided.
“we welcome the medical students to participate with us in conducting those research projects,” lumpkin explains.
this is ironic, given that it has beenpointed out that “cam” is actually losing favor in china, where many of the concepts of traditional chinese medicine that underlie large swaths of alternative medicine originated.
my retort would be that it’s not necessary to integrate this sort of woo deeply into the curriculum in order to accomplish this.
i see no reason to respond further to joe, and given his rhetorical style, hope that he is not actually a practicing md.
i suspect that the nausea of morning sickness is actually a sign of very high no levels and that this high no is actually beneficial to pregnancy outcomes.
i typed-inginger, nausea and the june, 2007 review was at the top of the list.
another study published in jama in 1998 reports that 75 of the 117 participating u.s. medical schools offer cam elective courses or include cam topics in required courses.
it seemed that the only peole who read it or were affected by it were proponents, who felt it as a whip on their behinds so to run even faster.
it  used to focus on whole plants, but now spends most of its time pursuing  pharmacological studies of active molecules of interest.
however, with a known potency (unlike the  natural), the dosage could be titrated to lessen the side effect while seeking  the effective dosage.
the second article above on the history is in sci rev altern med, and the third, “postmodern medicine” is also.
no question, it would be the  drug.”
aren’t these medical schools accredited?
can they take it that a plant is safe enough for medicinal use, if hundreds of millions of people have eaten it for dinner?
nausea is often a normal accompaniment of gastric  hypermobility.
on 01 aug 2008  at 11:50 am [...] treatment), people in general losing # science-based medicine »
[georgetown is teaching “mind-body” medicine to its medical students and actively encouraging them to use it, all in the context of teaching other areas of woo.]
if an isolated and patented molecule were always “safer and more effective” than plants as found in nature, then no-doz would be safer than green tea, a capsule of pure sennoside would have fewer side effects than senna tea, and …oh, yeah… pure cocaine would be safer than chewing coca leaf.
if it didn’t, then at least non-woo schools would get stronger and the woo schools would get weaker.
that is not what is being claimed by some herbalists – they  are claiming a synergism where the joint effect is greater than the added  effect of the individual components.
daedalus - in other words, the potent pill with its delicate balance of benefits and toxicities can only be prescribed by an md, and therefore received only by someone who can shell out $100 or so for the office visit – plus maybe more money for office visits for more prescriptions to deal with the side effects.
the slight increases may not be measurable.
perhaps as a well-informed doctor, you will go look up the clinical trials.
http://jama.ama-assn.org/cgi/content/abstract/292/23/2868 http://www.indianexpress.com/res/web/pie/full_story.php?content_id=71247&pn=0
in winter 2002, educators are introducing a new workshop, “mind-body medicine: an experiential and didactic introduction,” which includes topics on a wide range of mind-body approaches, including meditation, nutrition, physical exercise, relaxation, and self-awareness.
a well-informed doctor, who was not taught quackery as if it were real, would research your claims.
i think we have agreed that this can happen, if it were a general  principle, we would know it.
one year, it was noted that dc public schools had better equipped science laboratories than did georgetown university.
a drug company recently tried to develop a pharmaceutical version of hoodia, but they gave up when they were unable to separate out a hepatotoxic component.
and uterine relaxation.
all of this betrays immaturity and a lack of sophistication.
to return to the proper theme, your med school should also have taught you  not to label patients who understand that with words like  “woo-ery,” “naivete,” and “childish.”
that’s the big question, so far unanswered, at least in this thread.
everyone can think of other classes of drugs that have gone through the stages of native source–extraction–purification–standardization of potency and dosing–synthesis of analogues, resulting in predictable, useful improvements in desired and undesired effects at virtually each stage.
cr’s association with racial equality and international commercialism, environmental conservation, and other social goods and artifacts of modern living, benefits from use of common language and a commonality of thought about dangers and misuse of science (radiation, animal experimentation, synthetic chemicals and drugs.
you  admit that you have little knowledge of botany or the irrelevant science of  entomology; i hope you do not display open contempt for non-md patients if  their greater knowledge of botany causes them to disagree with some opinion you  hold dear.
the average plant has hundreds of secondary metabolites, often in  groups of closely related compounds.
wow, this is just getting ridiculous.
we do, however, need doctors who are literate and can speak about non-medical pseudo-healing, so that they can approach conversations with their patients from knowledge.
of the then (1995-7) 57 or so courses in 125 us med schools only 4 or 5 taught subjects from scientific, analytical view.
there’s that word  “should” which does not guarantee they “are.”
by and large, the botanicals still  allowed on our market are very safe.
i am simply fascinated by the promise of herbal  mixtures and their components as a source of novel chemistries that have  allowed us to find new mechanisms of action to treat diseases.
dr. atwood writes: “my own view is that this kind of evidence suggests that it may be useful to investigate ginger for a possible anti-nausea substance(s).
if they did, they would have the power under dshea to remove them from the market.
one of those “benign” herbal remedies might just turn out to  be fatal for the occasional patient; we just don’t know.
i can’t believe this bs was written by a us medical school, it’s ridiculous.
one on the need for reform in teaching of “cam” in  medical schools is in academic medicine, 2000-2002 – see pubmed listing.
as a general principle, if an effective herbal remedy is found, its safety and effectiveness are likely to be improved by purification and isolation of active components.
apteryx wrote “there’s a lot of money to be made; why don’t they get cracking?”
# harriet hall on 20 mar 2008 at 2:43 pm “there’s a lot of money to be made; why don’t they get  cracking?”
(in this case, the synergy is more accurately defined as “potentiation” since the antimicrobial efficacy of berberine is enhanced by the presence of the s. aureus nora efflux pump inhibitor, 5-methoxyhydnocarpin – this compound has no intrinsic antimicrobial activity so the effect can be described by the analogy of 1 + 0 = 3.)
the rss 2.0 feed goes up through the end of feb.
georgetown has always had a reputation far better than it deserves (reminds of of the medical student in “house of god” from the “very best medical school”).
if such is found it  can be standardized for dose-risk and dose-therapeutic effect relations, and  also provide a potential starting point for new, more specific (and therefore  safer and more effective) synthetic analogues.
it is not that the anti-emetics are causing any adverse outcomes, rather more  adverse outcomes accompany a low no state.
for example: gross anatomy: anatomy of acupuncture human physiology: biofeedback, neuromuscular manipulation human endocrinology: stress hormone modulation (relaxation response, meditation, imagery, breathing regulation) neuroscience: mechanisms of acupuncture action immunology: psychoneuroimmunology 3.
i picked ginger as an example, rather than another well-proven botanical such as horse chestnut, because it is also a conventional food.
frocked priests roam the hall of the medical school, and there are some with phds research in biology, and several jesuit mds.
not content to offer so-called complementary and alternative medicine (“cam”) modalities as part of electives that interested
certainly, if other medical schools start following georgetown’s lead, it will be.
thanks for your very interesting remarks!
acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) is easier on the stomach than purified  salicylic acid was, although aspirin still kills thousands of people annually.
do any of you know of examples  of “whole” herbal medicines that were tested against the isolated  active ingredient(s) and found to be superior?”
a few years ago the best beta receptor agonist, isoproterenol (also synthetic), was not specific to receptor types 1 or 2.
the only way to actually know  something is to actually measure it.
why does its program tout that it will be starting to teach cam from the very first day of medical school, as described in on the georgetown website and brochure.
no one was  keeping statistics during those centuries.
it suggests “intelligent design” or some similar, comforting but childish notion that nature is our mary poppins: “what’s nice about plant or herbal medicines is that because they are derived from the whole plant they are considerably less toxic to the body.
a common herbalist stance is that whole plants have fewer side effects than pure compounds because the plant contains other compounds that offset the side effects of the active constituent.
other examples relevant to sbm posts include hmg-coa reductase inhibitors (“statins”), originally isolated from microorganisms much more recently (ca. 1970), with synthetic derivatives that have varied widely enough in adverse effects to suggest that it will be possible to fashion new ones that have extremely low risks but maintain the desired effect.
these botanicals have whole suites of active ingredients, and patients will  gain more benefit from multicomponent products.
but if you get a certain result in a bioassay or clinical trial from a whole extract, then can’t find any single molecule that has the same bioactivity profile when given in the same (relatively small) amount as was present in the extract, the only mechanist conclusion possible has to be that there is more than one active molecule present.
here are the only abstracts i can scrounge up right now.
animal studies suggest that both rutin and hyperforin are necessary for st. john’s wort to be active.
lab studies  supporting traditional uses are great to see, because animals and isolated  cells can’t be accused of experiencing placebo effects!
this is for teaching practitioners, no less,  not just teching students about “cam.”
of the  then (1995-7) 57 or so courses in 125 us med schools only 4 or 5 taught  subjects from scientific, analytical view.
this is a very good thing, and something i would like to see  replicated in the us.
i am not making a claim; you are making the claim that there are no adverse effects from eating pharmacological doses of ginger.
but somehow i don’t think you would be less fearful of african wild plant foods than of the european cultivars that we’ve used for less than two millennia.
in the vast majority of cases, fractionation of plant extracts leads to an enrichment of cytotoxic activity (not a loss as might be expected if there were synergistic components) that can then be narrowed down to a single pure compound or related pure compounds.
that “formulation” (ouch!) is the basis for modern  pharmaceutical development.
i think that you  are more likely to find single compounds effective in a cytotoxicity assay.
# harriet hall on 19 mar 2008 at 5:40 pm herbalists frequently claim herbs are superior because of some synergistic  effect of their components.
it also appears to be safe in pregnancy, but this is not certain: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1988321?dopt=abstract http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10796155?dopt=abstract http://www.greenjournal.org/cgi/content/full/97/4/577 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14634571?dopt=abstract http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15802416?dopt=abstract my own view is that this kind of evidence suggests that it may be useful to investigate ginger for a possible anti-nausea substance(s).
should pregnant women eat nothing but white flour and meat (aka the bland cancer-promoting diet)?
it is easier to  look for side effects with a single compound than for a complex (and variable)
there is a balance between potency, cost, and side effects, and it does not make sense to attack every symptom with the biggest possible hammer no matter what.
however, with a known potency (unlike the natural), the dosage could be titrated to lessen the side effect while seeking the effective dosage.
what i wanted to explore was just how far this might go and what the end result might be.
depending on what dr. atwood decides to write, next week i may take a look at the issue of academic medicine from october 2007 and examine some of what has been written there in more detail about the teaching of “cam” in medical school.
a dull knife is also a lot less useful as a tool.
the metabolic demand in the first trimester is small.
are you one of those?
fda has no evidence that the commercial products are dangerous in ordinary use.
many compounds in plants are there to deter predation by herbivores.
pharmaceuticals are too high.
it is easier to look for side effects with a single compound than for a complex (and variable) mixture of thousands of compounds.
i, for one, am very interested in the “hard, involved science” that is used to demonstrate these plants’ bioactivities, whether or not the studies of bioactivity identify single active compounds.
studies have shown clinical efficacy in chronic venous insufficiency (7) (8) (9)….
you say that only formal trials mean anything, then you don’t seem interested in the results of the trials that have been published.
it depends on one’s risk-taking propensities.
then anyone not with the program will become heterodox.
this increase may be quite modest and difficult to measure.
if a compound has no  therapeutic effect in reducing nausea, it may still have physiological effect  in causing side effects.
unfortunately, nccam goes beyond this and funds grants to promote the teaching–indeed, the integration–of cam in medical schools before these modalities are scientifically proven.
if they did, they would have the power under  dshea to remove them from the market.
all  women may not react the same way.
you imply, later in your comment, that the recommended doses (if that’s what you mean by “potency”) for pharmaceuticals are too high.
fifty two never entertained presenting  scientific arguments opposing efficacy/use, and none invited a skeptical  presentation.
the questionnaire replies were sometimes caustic and cynical, the course heads (joke?) having sniffed out my “bias.”
the nccam appropriated something like $10 million for  fifteen med schools pg programs.
cocaine has a high potential for abuse both as pure cocaine hydrochloride  and also as coca leaf.
the major traditional medicine of india is ayurveda which uses heavy metals  (mercury, arsenic and lead) in quantities that exceed levels now considered to  be safe.
i’m sorry to say that out of ~4,000 extracts  with which my lab has worked, we have yet to find a single case where synergy  might be present.
( http://web.archive.org/web/20050825191221/http://www.scnm.edu/news/uploads/ms.pdf ) excuse me, but equipotent doses are equipotent, no matter what the packaging.
i  can’t list them all off the top of my head.
# apteryx on 20 mar 2008 at 1:38 pm then perhaps big pharma would do us the favor of filling in a few gaps in  their armamentarium by manufacturing: - a single compound derived from  hawthorn to alleviate symptoms of heart failure while reducing, rather than  increasing, the risk of arrhythmias - a single hepatoprotective compound  derived from milk thistle (mds who do not wish to risk malpractice suits  already treat amanita poisoning with silymarin, which is a standardized mixture  of four active molecules – you can find reports on pubmed) - a  single compound derived from horse chestnut to treat chronic venous  insufficiency - a single compound derived from gotu kola to speed wound  healing and treat microangiopathy, and - a single compound derived from  elderberry to fight flu.
i suspect that if this high no level is reduced by any mechanism that  adverse pregnancy outcomes will increase.
it depends on one’s risk-taking  propensities.
i typed-inginger, nausea and the june, 2007 review was at the  top of the list.
if so, this ought to be known to legitimate botanists and
the “seamless” weaving of cam into existing classes includes, for instance, a presentation by an acupuncturist on the “anatomy of acupuncture” in the gross anatomy course for first-year students.
no compelling case that i have yet seen has been made that cam methodologies are so compelling in their efficacy that room must be made in the mandatory medical school curriculum for them.
consuming an entire retail container of salt (26 oz or 740 grams)  would likely be fatal.
the same is true with salt.
looks like we will be covering some previous ground, but there is enough new every 4 years to do so – maybe evry year at this rate of change.
i was asking for support for the general claim that if you select a random botanical and make a concentrated drug from one of its active molecules, that drug will be “safer” than the botanical – which is ludicrous on the face of it.
it turns out that we are already witnessing an experiment in just such a thing.
it provides at least two drugs (digoxin and digitoxin) with similar action; but very different pharmacological profiles.
we have also been highly critical of  them here at sbm – for example take a look as wallace sampson’s  excellent analysis of academic medicine here and here, and david gorski’s  summary of medical academic woo here.
that  and a (hopefully short) bout of stupidity.
the rss 0.92 feed starts at march 4th and i forget what the atom feed is doing.
the ginger plant was not intelligently designed so as to provide an anti-nausea drug for humans.
do you think it would be justifiable to remove accreditation for medical schools teaching the woo?
something that cannot be done with materials of unknown composition with  variable effects and side effects.
if so, even if their discoveries have only to do with substances poisonous to insects, it would provide a theoretical boost to the synergy claim for medicinal properties—even though the latter are fortuitous, existing only because biochemistry itself is similar throughout the living world.
if  “everyone” in india eats ginger during their pregnancy, perhaps  they are all immune, or perhaps if they didn’t eat so much ginger over  historic time we would now be speaking hindi because indians would have  industrialized first and conquered the world instead of europeans.
# daedalus2u on 19 mar 2008 at 4:14 pm there are many more plausible reasons that indians didn’t conquer the  world than because they ate too much ginger.
if  widespread synergy of bio-active molecules in plants really exists, it’s  likely that it will have already been discovered by entomologists and/or  botanists (readers: help us out here, please).
there is also the example of foxglove.
should it be taught before or  after the section on heavy metal poisoning and how to treat it?
by “woo-ery” i  was referring to ideas such as those in the quotation from the naturopath,  which are childish, naive, and do not reflect an understanding of anything.
much of the information taught in the first years of professional school is presented from authority without much critical analysis.
this is not a law of nature; it’s an article of faith, touted without evidence.
the physiology that causes the nausea may have a beneficial role all by itself.
indeed, there are  a few limited cases where synergy among herbal components might support the  superior action of a whole herb – my favorite case is the work of frank  stermitz at csu in the pnas report cited by apteryx above.
altering any of these regions changes biologic effects, and after much experience such “structure-activity” relationships both help us learn about how things work and allow pharmacologists to make educated guesses about what new alterations might be useful.
i am quite sure, however, that there is no compelling reason in biology to think that this should be the norm, or even common.
we only use an antibiotic or pesticide for a few decades before seeing major resistance, whereas plants seem to get by for millennia.
we are now starting to push multidrug malaria treatments for that very reason.
the  idea that the health benefits of fruits and vegetables can be replaced by a  vitamin pill has already been clearly debunked.
when purified compounds are used, the metabolism of them is simpler than the metabolism of those compounds plus thousands of others.
here are the principles behind theproject: 1.
does anyone remember bendectin?
i will instead send a copy of your excellent article as a way explanation about why i won’t be sending any more money.
zetetic – anti-botanical pundits tend to assume that botanicals have only one active molecule, which presumably causes side effects as well as benefits.
if you are actually a young person, perhaps of college age or not much  older, i implore you to re-apply yourself to your studies and stop wasting your  time here looking for reasons to make inane, contrary comments.
apteryx wrote “you are saying that the single molecule will be more  bioactive in terms of desired effects yet less bioactive when it comes to  causing side effects — and that this is not just occasionally true but a  general rule.
teaching cam must bring in more money.
here seemed to be the  missing link that turned the heads of the academics and a significant  percentage of mystical-bending practitioners, and spurred interest the splay of  non-professionals and quasi-professionals whose ads one sees in small weekly  newspapers and in yellow pages.
the same lecturer explores acupuncture’s application in pain relief in the neuroscience course… haramati and lumpkin say georgetown’s program is distinct from cam initiatives in other medical schools in two ways:
something that coca leaf cannot be used for.
as for the herbalist claims that herb components work together to provide some increased benefit (additive, or synergistic), the opposite can also be true- the herb can contain poisons that make the desired active-ingredient irrelevant until purified.
# apteryx on 20 mar 2008 at 3:39 pm how do you know that hepatotoxicity was the real problem?
typical claims of that sort by  “cam” types betray their naivete about nature.
that could mean either that the concentrated fraction is more toxic than the crude extract when given in equal volumes (which means that a far higher quantity of the toxic molecule(s) is present), or that the concentrated fraction is more toxic than the crude extract when given at a much lower dose, so that the dose of the toxic molecule(s) is identical.
no  causes high atp via sgc allowing metabolic functions to operate well.
varro tyler was a pharmacologist, not a botanist, and he was considered by herbalists to be very conservative.
# joe on 18 mar 2008 at 10:07 am the american cancer society on ginger: http://www.cancer.org/docroot/eto/content/eto_5_3x_ginger.asp?sitearea=eto “ginger reduces nausea, according to some, but not all, controlled  studies in humans.
for the vast majority of cam therapies, a brief overview would be all that is needed.
you are saying that the single molecule will be more bioactive in terms of desired effects yet less bioactive when it comes to causing side effects — and that this is not just occasionally true but a general rule.
that is not what is being claimed by some herbalists – they are claiming a synergism where the joint effect is greater than the added effect of the individual components.
georgetown university has a few peculiarities you may not know about.
as for your speech about “no evidence” for the “safety of the fetus,” well, again, there are half a dozen clinical trials with no safety problems, plus a total lack of anecdotal harm.
cr as has been discussed, creates a content equity between scientific and  pseudo-scientific systems.
the late varro tyler was the eli lilly  distinguished professor of pharmacognosy at purdue university.
i suppose humans could be said not to have “evolved in symbiosis” with any food plants not native to africa, although humans have been in australia, via asia, for 50,000 years.
the p450 system is regulated by no, and is quite  uncoupled, that is it produces superoxide when metabolizing compounds.
announcing that every substance is toxic in excess is not a valuable  revelation.
because there is no evidence to support them, just like all the other cult medicine garbage.
if you’re scientifically inclined, as i am, it ought to make you shudder.
here are the only  abstracts i can scrounge up right now.
willow bark contains salicin in relatively low doses.
(likewise, peruvians used quinine bark effectively for malaria for a long time, but once europeans started using isolated quinine, resistance developed in less than a century.)
i suppose humans could be said not to have “evolved in  symbiosis” with any food plants not native to africa, although humans  have been in australia, via asia, for 50,000 years.
do any of you know of examples of “whole” herbal medicines that were tested against the isolated active ingredient(s) and found to be superior?”
“you are saying that the single molecule will be more bioactive in terms of desired effects yet less bioactive when it comes to causing side effects — and that this is not just occasionally true but a general rule.
apteryx “as for your speech about “no evidence” for the “safety of the fetus,” well, again, there are half a dozen clinical trials with no safety problems” another half-dozen experiments (i suppose you will cite them)!
pure cocaine hydrochloride can be used as a local anesthetic.
other  examples relevant to sbm posts include hmg-coa reductase inhibitors  (“statins”), originally isolated from microorganisms much more  recently (ca. 1970), with synthetic derivatives that have varied widely enough  in adverse effects to suggest that it will be possible to fashion new ones that  have extremely low risks but maintain the desired effect.
rather, its advocates have a distressing tendency to simply assume that because a remedy is an herb or part of a plant it must be better than pharmaceutical products, even herb- or plant-derived drugs, because it’s “natural.”
i don’t like  cauliflower; well, it’s got icky-tasting defensive secondary metabolites  in it, maybe it’s a teratogen.
if that is the mechanism, then it would likely also reduce the threshold for adverse outcomes in pregnancy.
salt is a member of every one of those groups.
one of those “benign” herbal remedies might just turn out to be fatal for the occasional patient; we just don’t know.
but do not despair for this will also be its doom: with ever increasing numbers of patients “treated”, the media will be full of failures and side-effects and the public will turn once again to good old medicine… only to go back to cam when all that travesty will have been forgotten.
if you are actually a young person, perhaps of college age or not much older, i implore you to re-apply yourself to your studies and stop wasting your time here looking for reasons to make inane, contrary comments.
how likely  is it that a randomly selected big pharma product will be safer than a food?
and it would be nice if in every case, their molecule was significantly more potent without having serious side effects, or equally potent without any more side effects or greatly increased cost.
this sounds like a bad joke but april fool’s day is still two weeks away.
begin on the first day of school, if possible.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15802789?ordinalpos=9&itool=entrezsystem2.pentrez.pubmed.pubmed_resultspanel.pubmed_rvdocsum http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11064004?ordinalpos=3&itool=entrezsystem2.pentrez.pubmed.pubmed_resultspanel.pubmed_rvdocsum both flavonoids and procyanidins are relevant to hawthorn’s  cardiovascular benefits.
that’s paternalism of the plainest kind.
the non-woo view of herbs as potential medicines.
if the drug companies think the “evidence isn’t promising  enough” to justify investigation of those botanical uses i mentioned  – most supported by multiple clinical trials and multiple animal studies  and, in some, in vitro explorations of mechanism – even though none of  their magic-bullet drugs can offer the same bioactivity profiles, then it is  entirely rational for consumers who could benefit from those bioactivities to  go on using the plants as people have done for millennia.
to return, as dr. sampson has done, to the original theme — these are not controversial statements among people aware of the state of research on botanicals.
thanks to joe, daedalus, and katwood, i am receiving an ecellent board xam review in pharmacology, and also receiving points in my ongoing arguments with a certain family member as to “why” i am on this blog.
instead of drumming up fear of spicy vegetables, perhaps they should start trying to quantify the toxic dose of grain-fed red meat.
that’s clever, but if you walk away from your med school with, let’s say, the opinion that ginger can’t possibly help morning sickness but has been proven to interact with warfarin, a subset of your patients will be better informed than you are and will know it.
we seldom worry about “dose-risk relations” when we eat food, yet somehow we survive.
teaching unproven cam modalities so extensively in the core medical school curriculum rather than as electives is neither scientifically nor educationally appropriate, as it puts the imprimatur of scientific medicine as represented by medical schools on therapies that are anything but scientific.
have you considered how to avoid presenting a paternalistic or hostile impression to future patients?
“we’re not teaching a belief system or teaching students to practice cam, but rather we’re informing students about cam.”
which  would be more likely to severely harm or kill you?
if they continue to employ your services, they will stop telling you about their use of herbs, assuming that any attempt to inform you will be met with scorn and possibly worse care or pejorative notes in their charts.
and much -including the caustic comments – was redlined.
it costs the plant something,  metabolically, to make twenty saponins or alkaloids rather than just one.
it’s not entirely implausible, in a way: many biologically-active  molecules in plants, including some that have become medicines, appear to have  evolved as defenses against predators (mainly insects).
do any of you know of examples of  “whole” herbal medicines that were tested against the isolated  active ingredient(s) and found to be superior?
why don’t medical students revolt at the absurdity of what is being taught to them?
i reviewed the content of many of the courses through questionnaires, web sites, and requested outlines.
moreover, advocates of cam tend to be much more passionate about promoting it than skeptics are about expressing their skepticism about it.
how do you think they choose which plants to investigate?
“suppose you were to go into a pharmacy blindfolded, pick either one herbal dietary supplement or one prescription drug derived from a natural product off the shelf at random, then take the whole bottle at once.
i think we have been through this.
you’re simply looking for compounds that are, frankly, poisonous in isolation, and enough of any poisonous compound will kill cells by itself.
thus, jesuit philosophy may be playing a role in the woo-ification you outlined above.
(likewise, peruvians used quinine  bark effectively for malaria for a long time, but once europeans started using  isolated quinine, resistance developed in less than a century.)
[sorry, the post went off prematurely...]
there are so many  examples that it would (and does) take whole textbooks to illustrate them, but  it’s easy to find several that are relevant to material on sbm.
the questionnaire replies were sometimes caustic  and cynical, the course heads (joke?) having sniffed out my “bias.”
so scientific medicine becomes a stand-in enemy  for unhappy and somatiforming souls, whose internally generated conflicts can  be comfortably externalized and then written about, meeting-about, and scolded  through faculty meetings.
with botanicals, you can sometimes go to the grocery store, or your own backyard, and get perhaps weaker effects for $2.
yes, it’s plausible to “get a certain result in a bioassay or  clinical trial from a whole extract, [without] any single molecule that has the  same bioactivity profile when given in the same (relatively small) amount as  was present in the extract.”
if so, this ought to be known to legitimate botanists and entomologists.
[...] # science-based medicine »
he often  lumped-together the good, the bad and the ugly of clinical trials to support  herbalist claims.
in fact, it’s worse than that.
humans did not evolve in symbiosis with ginger.
all fetuses may not react the same way.
there is no evidence that the plant as traditionally used is hepatotoxic, so if the active molecule when concentrated were hepatotoxic, it might be a case where the drug model reduced safety.
heck, why not teach “intelligent design” creationism in basic biology classes while they’re at it?
again, i don’t know that there aren’t examples of medicinal plants containing more than one molecule useful for the same human problem.
offhand, i find that “hospitalized elderly patients taking digitoxin had a lower rate of toxicity than those taking digoxin.”
in fact, they already do but mostly as semi-synthetic analogs of the naturally-occurring compounds to overcome metabolism and solubility issues (and the patentability issues detailed below).
that’s really the point, isn’t it?
if you want to keep me as a patient, you don’t need to  recommend traditional medicines, but if you want to express strong opinions on  the subject, you had better show that you have seen as much of the relevant  research as i have.
if that is the mechanism, then it  would likely also reduce the threshold for adverse outcomes in pregnancy.
(in this case, the  synergy is more accurately defined as “potentiation” since the  antimicrobial efficacy of berberine is enhanced by the presence of the s.  aureus nora efflux pump inhibitor, 5-methoxyhydnocarpin – this compound  has no intrinsic antimicrobial activity so the effect can be described by the  analogy of 1 + 0
some of my research involves the programming effects of no on various organs both in utero and later.
if there were only  one molecule in horse chestnut that affected leg edema, or only one molecule in  hawthorn that improved heart function, some drug company would by now have  sifted it out, slightly altered and patented it, and be doing phase iii trials.
our lecture on herbal medications was titled “the great american medicine show.””
“you are saying that the single molecule will be more bioactive in  terms of desired effects yet less bioactive when it comes to causing side  effects — and that this is not just occasionally true but a general rule.
the vast majority of cam therapiesdo lack rigorous scientific testing that mainstream medical therapies must undergo.
why don’t you ask that of someone in the industry who is in the know?
given my background, i have never really viewed this area with the degree of conflict or confrontation evident in this comment thread.
i’m sure you can also appreciate that some of the critical, uncompromising language used on this blog is not the sort that most mds would throw at a patient who has approached us in good faith, however much we may disagree with his or her point of view.
science, reason, ethics, and modern  medicine, part 4: is “cam” the only alternative?
thus if an asthmatic came to an emergency room needing treatment, he was likely to get a drug that worked but caused unpleasant heart-racing as a side effect, or perhaps he was denied that drug because it would have been too dangerous if he also had heart disease.
i can’t list them all off the top of my head.
also, we know how to recombine fractions to home-in on the best activity.
because of this herbal medicines may be taken for  longer periods of time without the side effects so often experienced with drugs.”
given how hard medicine already is to keep up on, maybe we should consign it to the trash-heap of intellectual history.
there’s little enough room in the curriculum to teach them that.
to return to the proper theme, your med school should also have taught you not to label patients who understand that with words like “woo-ery,” “naivete,” and “childish.”
during the first two years they learn the well-established basic science, and during the second two years they learn how to take care of patients according to the standard of care.
during organ differentiation is the time when a lot of epigenetic programming of those organs occurs.
hi dave, i won’t be addressing the oct. ’
all ginger may not be equal.
however, studies in pregnant women suggest that ginger can be used safely for morning sickness without harm to the fetus.
in the “wild”, a time of high stress is not a good time  to be pregnant.
he deserves credit for that, not insult.
at the very best, we have  seen nothing more than additive action among compounds where more than one was  present in the extract.
thus dangerously high blood pressures and several other side effects  would have been added to those previously mentioned.
# wallace sampson on 19 mar 2008 at 5:45 am thanks to joe, daedalus, and katwood, i am receiving an ecellent board xam  review in pharmacology, and also receiving points in my ongoing arguments with  a certain family member as to “why” i am on this blog.
even the dean of the medical school has his jesuit masters.
ending that pregnancy in the safest way, such as via preterm birth might be one of the “normal” responses to low no.
to the extent that an herb has activity, it is a contaminated drug.
and, professionalism and  intellectual know-it-allism)
exactly how i am not sure, but if it didn’t there is no way it would get a foothold.
the ginger plant was not  intelligently designed so as to provide an anti-nausea drug for humans.
he was a right-wing shock-jock, kind  of a precursor of bill o’reilly and rush limbaugh.
we are now  starting to push multidrug malaria treatments for that very reason.
# david gorski on 21 mar 2008 at 2:59 pm indeed it is.
i said i wasn’t going to waste further time responding to joe’s  posts, but for the benefit of any readers who do not know what pharmacognosy  is, it is the pharmacological study of botanicals or other natural products.
georgetown is teaching “mind-body” medicine to its medical students and actively encouraging them to use it, all in the context of teaching other areas of woo.
although 25% of our current prescription drugs can be traced to molecules from natural sources, corporate investment in natural products drug discovery has diminished leaving much of the work to government-funded academic researchers.
it was used for decades by huge numbers of women before the  women’s health initiative finally convinced us it did more harm than  good.
# daedalus2u on 18 mar 2008 at 3:45 pm there are more reasons to think there are side effects from ginger when  used as a drug than there are reasons to think there are no side effects when  using ginger as a drug.
a cochrane review concluded that it is effective for nausea of pregnancy.
that means that it stimulates beta-2  adrenergic receptors, which mainly causes bronchodilation (useful for asthma)
given my background, i have never really viewed this area with the degree  of conflict or confrontation evident in this comment thread.
i suspect that if this high no level is reduced by any mechanism that adverse pregnancy outcomes will increase.
that’s possible, but seems unlikely in  light of their having been determined by dose-response trials.
you’re simply looking for  compounds that are, frankly, poisonous in isolation, and enough of any  poisonous compound will kill cells by itself.
the editors did not want to publish the article – a subject for  longer exposition – they objected to the time delay, the  “orientation” and so forth.
we know that meditation, or relaxation, can decrease stress, and we know that excessive stress can be harmful to the body.
but you write, “a physician who knows nothing about health except which drug to prescribe, or what diagnostic and surgical technology to use, is incomplete as a health expert”—as though “which drug to prescribe” and “technology” overwhelm physiology, anatomy, biochemistry, neurobiology, immunology, hematology, histology, embryology, genetics, pathophysiology, pharmacology (which is not the same thing as “which drug to prescribe”), the natural history of disease, learning how to take histories that are useful, other interviewing techniques, physical examinations, making sense of signs and symptoms, smatterings (at least) of almost every clinical field from psychiatry to pediatrics to obstetrics to internal medicine to surgery and various surgical sub-specialties, radiology, dermatology and more, learning preventive medicine and clinical problem-solving, learning how to think about clinical research and literature, and all the rest of the enormous body of knowledge and skills that constitute becoming a physician.
it may also have quite diverse and idiosyncratic effects.
the problem is that nccam doesn’t just fund grants to study cam, which, although it often leads to studies of dubious scientific merit about therapies lacking even scientific plausibility, much less data, at least is an intellectually and scientifically defensible endeavor.
it is true that there can be more than one poison in a plant, perhaps each having conferred a selective advantage against the same species or similar species of insects.
hall and atwood for providing links in response to  joe’s query.
a physician who knows nothing about health except which drug to prescribe, or what diagnostic and surgical technology to use, is incomplete as a health expert.
but talk about an anechoic response…the anti-echo came back with new foundations with more and diferent funding agendas, providing fertilizer ($$$$) for the courses david gorski described.
did  someone with the metabolic syndrome get it because of exposure in utero or  because they didn’t exercise or because their mother ate ginger as an  anti-emetic?
i prefer not to use new prescription drugs until there has been time for post-marketing surveillance to pick up unexpected problems.
# daedalus2u on 18 mar 2008 at 7:41 am i suspect that the nausea of morning sickness is actually a sign of very  high no levels and that this high no is actually beneficial to pregnancy  outcomes.
i don’t assume that willow bark is better than aspirin, opium is better than codeine, or artemisia is better than artemisinin (if you can afford the drug and, where it is prescription-only, gain an md’s permission to obtain it).
there may be changes that are real, yet may be too subtle to measure in any  particular individual.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10677479?ordinalpos=29&itool=entrezsystem2.pentrez.pubmed.pubmed_resultspanel.pubmed_rvdocsum there have been several studies on green tea catechins, showing that while egcg is the only one that’s very potent directly (e.g., against cancer), the presence of related compounds boosts its activity.
stress is a low no state,  the “adverse outcomes” can also be thought of as normal stress  responses.
ginger has a number of molecules that are metabolized by the cytochrome p450 system.
most members of pseudomedical cults cannot relinquish their beliefs.
the 3rd one was on the influence of post-modernism and cultural relativism (cr) on preparing the soil for the present growth.
all las, beginning with cocaine, have similar tertiary structures: a lipophilic end (typically an aromatic ring), a hydrocarbon chain (no more than 2-3 carbons, typically), and a hydrophilic end.
it is a subdiscipline  of pharmacy, not botany.
” if you suggest in utero or in vivo exposure to ginger could possibly have  prevented indians from industrializing “first,” you imply that  ginger consumption could possibly create some unspecified biological condition  that prevented them from being good productive capitalists and conquistadors.
(a call  to arms) on 21 jul 2008 at 8:00 am [...] to what dr. r. w. donnell has termed “quackademic  medicine,” but at least one has required it as part of the mandatory  medical school curriculum from day one, bringing a whole new meaning to the  term “integrative” medicine, as it [...] # science-based medicine »
the research on ginger vs. morning sickness is inconclusive.
so what is georgetown’s solution?
this is a skill physicians generally lack because it’s something they were never taught.
there are at least thousands of  compounds, more likely tens or hundreds of thousands.
if widespread synergy of bio-active molecules in plants really exists, it’s likely that it will have already been discovered by entomologists and/or botanists (readers: help us out here, please).
in some cases it was debunked as being nonsense.
(real life example:  ginseng contains individual ginsenosides that both raise and lower blood  pressure in animal studies, but as a whole extract tends to lower blood  pressure.)
at some dose ginger does  have side effects.
removing compounds that don’t reduce nausea and  that do cause side effects will both increase efficacy and reduce side effects.
the late varro tyler was the eli lilly distinguished professor of pharmacognosy at purdue university.
if an isolated and patented molecule were  always “safer and more effective” than plants as found in nature,  then no-doz would be safer than green tea, a capsule of pure sennoside would  have fewer side effects than senna tea, and …oh, yeah… pure  cocaine would be safer than chewing coca leaf.
i’m sure some herbal remedies do contain more than one active ingredient.
it is  not true for cranberry juice.
this is for teaching practitioners, no less, not just teching students about “cam.”
the major traditional medicine of india is ayurveda which uses heavy metals (mercury, arsenic and lead) in quantities that exceed levels now considered to be safe.
my wife received as good a medical education as i, through a public medical school at 1/10th of the tuition.
# kimball atwood on 19 mar 2008 at 11:16 am “suppose you were to go into a pharmacy blindfolded, pick either one  herbal dietary supplement or one prescription drug derived from a natural  product off the shelf at random, then take the whole bottle at once.
it is not true for cranberry juice.
that is used to demonstrate these plants’ bioactivities, whether or not  the studies of bioactivity identify single active compounds.
the same is  true of purified pharmaceutically active agents.
there may be changes that are real, yet may be too subtle to measure in any particular individual.
no is an excellent antioxidant, several thousand times better than vitamin e. high no causes high atp via sgc allowing metabolic functions to operate well.
i have two or three articles on this if one has time and the interest to read them.
he is also quick to note the initiative is not a program of advocacy.
please don’t confuse what’s wrong with  “bigpharm”—shameless advertising, cois involved in sponsoring  trials, concealing of unflattering information, which we bloggers don’t  like any better than you—with what’s right with it: pharmaceutical  r&d and manufacturing, ie, the science and technology.
# joe on 20 mar 2008 at 4:30 pm apteryx wrote “there’s a lot of money to be made; why  don’t they get cracking?”
we figured that out many decades ago.
http://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/410488 # joe on 19 mar 2008 at 5:40 pm apteryx wrote “but if you get a certain result in a bioassay or  clinical trial from a whole extract, then can’t find any single molecule  that has the same bioactivity profile when given in the same (relatively small)  amount as was present in the extract, the only mechanist conclusion possible  has to be that there is more than one active molecule present.”
the scientific community is appropriately concerned about  such programs for a number of reasons.
it may interest apteryx that i had the bittersweet honor of stepping in for  varro tyler at a symposium held in 2001 a month after his untimely death and  that my current research is actually on pure components in milk thistle (just  do a pubmed search for me; however, i study their anticancer action rather than  their hepatoprotective action).
# daedalus2u on 18 mar 2008 at 12:36 pm apteryx, it is pretty obvious that not all compounds in ginger are  pharmacologically active in reducing nausea.
can’t they just revoke their right to hand out mds?
traditional med schools have been cranking out doctors who believe, and instruct patients, that plants are probably harmful but never helpful unless they both can be and have been made into drugs.
some herbalists try to tell us the opposite is true, but the evidence doesn’t support them.
traditional med schools have been cranking out doctors who believe,  and instruct patients, that plants are probably harmful but never helpful  unless they both can be and have been made into drugs.
the nccam is the biggest of course, and combined with service departments (army, navy, defense dept. and now usaf) has exceeded $1 billion.
resistance is futile?
the vast majority of mds from good medical schools have to be opposed to the teaching of woo because it isn’t evidence based and isn’t consistent with the standards of care.
to return, as dr. sampson has done, to the original theme — these are  not controversial statements among people aware of the state of research on  botanicals.
the data is underwhelming.
practically everyone knows that, and it tells us nothing about what  substances are toxic under normal circumstances.
i keep thinking that more and more.
when the publisher updates the web site (sram.org) some articles will be there.
practically everyone knows that, and it tells us nothing about what substances are toxic under normal circumstances.
# daedalus2u on 18 mar 2008 at 6:41 pm i don’t say that only formal trials mean something.
commercial products are made with specific techniques to remove the toxic compounds” btw, apteryx also noted “commercial products should be standardized to 50 mg of aescin and free from aesculin, a hydroxycoumarin.”
animal studied and in vitro mechanism studies are hard and involved, indeed, but i hope you don’t mean to imply that if they can’t completely explicate all mechanisms of action, they will never be “hard” enough to satisfy.
to put it in  economic terms, since medicine is a lucrative industry these days: you will  lose business.
you can comfort  yourself with the belief that each has only one active molecule and that  putting that molecule in a pill would be even better.
the non-woo view of herbs as  potential medicines.
about a year and a half ago, i first became aware of just how far this infiltration of unscientific “medicine” has infiltrated academia when i saw thisbrochure published by the georgetown university school of medicine.
in theory it could have been even worse in the old days, if cow adrenal glands—with norepinephrine, a very potent natural alpha agonist, several kinds of steroid hormones, and numerous other molecules that our bodies would probably not much like—had been ground up and used as either inhaled or injectable medicines.
it is actually a necessary dietary component.
i realize i’m wandering a bit here.
i just had a thought, could these woo based healing systems be classified as “religions”?
it costs the plant something, metabolically, to make twenty saponins or alkaloids rather than just one.
i’m afraid addressing all the mistaken ideas in the above message would take a very lengthy response, which as dr. sampson would note, would be a distraction from the major thread.
fda has no evidence that the commercial products  are dangerous in ordinary use.
the increased adverse effects due to lowering no in pregnancy that i am contemplating would be independent of any other direct adverse effect anti-emetics might have.
in a word: no, i do not.
please don’t keep us in suspense any  longer.
# wallace sampson on 19 mar 2008 at 6:03 am [sorry, the post went off prematurely...]
# daedalus2u on 19 mar 2008 at 2:18 pm i don’t know how you get from my examples the possible notion that i  suggested that consumers of non-european cuisine are in any way  “defective”.
we are trying to do that now with milk thistle compounds but the reality is that the pure, naturally-occurring compounds cannot be patented and lack of a protected ip position provides no financial incentive for the average $800 million investment required to bring a drug to market in the us.
i did, as i said, they are inconclusive.
these effects would be very difficult to see,  and as i see them are part of the “normal” spectrum of outcomes of  pregnancy.
a more plausible explanation of why indians didn’t industrialize  first is that (a) they didn’t have large accessible coal reserves, which  is not causally correlated with consumption of spicy foods, and (b) they live  in the tropics, an area historically not conducive to sweatshop labor —  which is.
i reviewed the content of many of the courses through questionnaires, web  sites, and requested outlines.
or maybe they’ll teach aboutqi in physiology or neurology.
it is rational to some extent.
you imply, later in your comment, that the recommended  doses (if that’s what you mean by “potency”) for
but education in general is also partly to blame.
as a scientist with the training and willingness to  investigate these questions, i can only hope that enough interest (i.e.,  funding) remains in the promise of this field for such questions to be  addressed.
it would be beyond surprising if the  most important organ, the brain were not.
the details of which specific  adverse outcomes occur are complex and could be all over the map.
the 3rd one was on the influence of post-modernism and cultural relativism  (cr) on preparing the soil for the present growth.
until they are tested, whether they do have side effects or do  not have side effects is unknown.
i also  think that if a manufacturer did make a single-compound drug from a complex  botanical, it should be their job to demonstrate that it is better than the  plant it came from, rather than asking us all just to “simply  assume” that the brand new corporate product is superior.
i am not trying to drum up fear of ginger, but rather an absence of ignorance of the pro and con effects of ginger.
your suggestion that a good medical education leads to the opinion “that ginger cannot possibly …” is an invalid straw man.
also, we know how to recombine fractions to  home-in on the best activity.
that’s a fact, not a “perception.”
aspirin is preferable to willow tree bark and digitalis to foxglove.
lab studies supporting traditional uses are great to see, because animals and isolated cells can’t be accused of experiencing placebo effects!
some of my research involves the  programming effects of no on various organs both in utero and later.
how likely is it that a randomly selected big pharma product will be safer than a food?
more often, i think, concentrating any one of the multiple active compounds in a plant and giving an enormous dose of that alone is a good way to increase side effects.
i do have a question; you say “in the vast majority of cases, fractionation of plant extracts leads to an enrichment of cytotoxic activity.”
i am indeed disappointed.
if you can present compelling evidence that ginger is safe and effective, it will become ‘medicine.’
some compounds that are teratogens have no or only minor adverse effects in adults.
i do have a question; you say “in the vast majority of cases,  fractionation of plant extracts leads to an enrichment of cytotoxic  activity.”
i have two or three articles on this if one has time and the interest to  read them.
regarding the “multicomponent” argument: do you have real  evidence of this?
are people who choose to consume tobacco somehow “defective”?
any wonder that you create true belivers in woo.
“if students get involved in these research projects, it will allow them to go to the cutting edge of cam.
there is some concern due to preliminary evidence that ginger might affect fetal sex hormones and an anecdotal report of spontaneous abortion during week 12 of pregnancy in a patient who used ginger for morning sickness.
# apteryx on 18 mar 2008 at 9:45 am thanks to drs.
no is an  excellent antioxidant, several thousand times better than vitamin e. high
the compounds in ginger are  xenobiotic as far as human physiology is concerned.
by “woo-ery” i was referring to ideas such as those in the quotation from the naturopath, which are childish, naive, and do not reflect an understanding of anything.
i was not charging you or any particular, hypothetical patient with similar notions.
but i wasn’t sure where else to post: the three feeds are not all in sync.
some compounds that are teratogens have no or only minor adverse effects in  adults.
whatever the active components, the  remedies will always contain other, inactive components, and these might be  either useless or counterproductive, harmless or harmful.
which would be more likely to severely harm or kill you?
any why does taxpayer money have to fund cam???
a dull knife is “safer” than a sharp knife.
how is that possible?
but talk about an  anechoic response…the anti-echo came back with new foundations with more  and diferent funding agendas, providing fertilizer ($$$$) for the courses david  gorski described.
i threw that out there as an attempt to be humorous, but also to make the point that even though things have been used for a long time doesn’t mean they are safe.
the indian practices of ayurveda reportedly were dictated by one of their gods.
i’ve been fantasizing a button reading “send pec to medical school.”
the ginger plant evolved to have these compounds in it for its own reasons, not to provide medicinal effects to humans.
commercial products are  made with specific techniques to remove the toxic compounds — some people  seem to think there is no such thing as standardization of botanicals, but  there is — and have generally minor side effects in clinical trials.
you can comfort yourself with the belief that each has only one active molecule and that putting that molecule in a pill would be even better.
in a related note  concerning herbal medicine, more than 100 “antimalarial” chinese  herbs were screened and only artemesia had useful activity http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16722826?ordinalpos=21&itool=entrezsystem2.pentrez.pubmed.pubmed_resultspanel.pubmed_rvdocsum  .
a plausible mechanism by which ginger reduces nausea is by causing local oxidative stress due to activation of p450 enzymes, which pulls down the no level and reduces the threshold for nausea.
can anyone come up with any supporting evidence for that?
they have gathered 35 + med  schools for teaching courses and a lesser number for postgraduate training in  “cam.”
if “everyone” in india eats ginger during their pregnancy, perhaps they are all immune, or perhaps if they didn’t eat so much ginger over historic time we would now be speaking hindi because indians would have industrialized first and conquered the world instead of europeans.
political/academic correctness takes care of the rest.
the rss 0.92 feed starts at march 4th and i forget what the atom  feed is doing.
the fact is, that membership of a material in a group called  “herbs” or “chemicals” or “foods” or  “drugs” or “pharmaceuticals”, or “white  powders” or “sold in containers of lethal quantities” tells  us nothing about the safety or dangerousness of the material.
ginger has a number of molecules that are metabolized by the  cytochrome p450 system.
once one goes through all this learning how easy is it to realize rationally that it is all just distilled water.
no, researchers have not done separate failed clinical  trials with every single one of those compounds – that would be  impossible as well as foolish – but they have done lab studies showing  that different groups of compounds contribute to bioactivity.
yes, it’s a general rule, and yes, there is plenty of supporting evidence.
they also tend to get taken over by true believers.
the nccam is the biggest of course, and  combined with service departments (army, navy, defense dept. and now usaf) has  exceeded $1 billion.
that’s putting the cart before the horse!
artemisia annua tea is a fairly effective  treatment for malaria, but concentrated derivatives of artemisinin (which is  only one of several active compounds) are even better, and given the degree of  misery malaria causes, patients who can afford them will prefer them.
it is a subdiscipline of pharmacy, not botany.
is tobacco without side effects?
i hope the rest of the day  isn’t like this.
how do you know that hepatotoxicity was the real problem?
in a related note concerning herbal medicine, more than 100 “antimalarial” chinese herbs were screened and only artemesia had useful activity http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16722826?ordinalpos=21&itool=entrezsystem2.pentrez.pubmed.pubmed_resultspanel.pubmed_rvdocsum .
in  the latter case, it actually implies that other molecules in the crude extract  interfere with the toxicity of the “active molecule,” which is  supporting evidence for the idea that whole plants may be less toxic because  they contain multiple compounds with opposing effects.
it is a jesuit institution, beholden to the teachings of the catholic church.
there are more reasons to think there are side effects from ginger when used as a drug than there are reasons to think there are no side effects when using ginger as a drug.
if such is found it can be standardized for dose-risk and dose-therapeutic effect relations, and also provide a potential starting point for new, more specific (and therefore safer and more effective) synthetic analogues.
what caught my attention in his lengthy deconstruction was his segment on the “woo-ification” of health care, which very much echoedmy post a while back in which i lamented the creeping infiltration of non-science-based modalities into academic medical centers, as well as the credulous teaching of such modalities in medical schools.
yet they promise that the drug-discovery process will give us  souped-up effects with reduced side effects.
you readily offer truisms, written in the phony passive voice (thank you, calli arcale), such as “it is well known that mental states can influence physical health,” when the reality is far less sanguine.
you present a broad and complex topic (“stress”) as though it were specific and simple.
yes, it’s plausible to “get a certain result in a bioassay or clinical trial from a whole extract, [without] any single molecule that has the same bioactivity profile when given in the same (relatively small) amount as was present in the extract.”
how easy is it really for even ebm people to change their minds about pet beliefs even when new evidence is published.
more from the acs “ginger may interfere with blood clotting …”
everyone can think of other classes of drugs that have gone through the  stages of native  source–extraction–purification–standardization of potency and  dosing–synthesis of analogues, resulting in predictable, useful  improvements in desired and undesired effects at virtually each stage.
i’m at a med school where cam was handled more skeptically.
but you probably can’t imagine what condition, any more than i can.
this is a very good thing, and something i would like to see replicated in the us.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10677479?ordinalpos=29&itool=entrezsystem2.pentrez.pubmed.pubmed_resultspanel.pubmed_rvdocsum there have been several studies on green tea catechins, showing that while  egcg is the only one that’s very potent directly (e.g., against cancer),  the presence of related compounds boosts its activity.
# kimball atwood on 18 mar 2008 at 9:17 pm
salt has been consumed by humans for forever.
education today is about stuffing minds with facts, not about raising critically thinking individuals.
if even a few don’t, then those few can always be pointed to and used as the “real” standard.
especially the part “in the program’s second year, georgetown aims to double the number of mind-body session groups and introduce cam-related issues in lectures in the pharmacology, microbiology, and pathology courses in the students’ second year of medical school” read like some parody mark crislip would write.
but the more potent product is not always better.
botanists, in general, do not know how to do that.
natural medicine was for the first time in many years taught in german universities; plans were made to establish a number of professorships in this area.
if we start teaching “cam” as legitimate medicine, there is no end to the garbage we will force medical students to learn.
i think any botanist or entomologist would agree that there has to be some selective advantage to doing so.
since there is no such pill, consumers will reasonably conclude that some benefit from herbs is better than zero benefit from big pharma.
for example adults exposed to nutritional deprivation in  utero have more health problems as adults.
# joe on 20 mar 2008 at 11:43 am apteryx wrote “there are quite a few plants whose activity has been  found to split into multiple fractions in bioassays, or to diminish after  fractionation.”
as far as i know that was never done, but it would be the obvious analogy to the “cam” preference for whole plants or parts of plants—except, of course, that if such a preparation were taken by the oral route it would be relatively innocuous, and the adrenergic molecules themselves would not be sufficiently absorbed to have any effect, useful or otherwise.
apteryx wrote “you are saying that the single molecule will be more bioactive in terms of desired effects yet less bioactive when it comes to causing side effects — and that this is not just occasionally true but a general rule.
there’s a good review article on ginger at: http://www.aafp.org/afp/20070601/1689.html.
also, some botanicals cannot be turned into single-compound drugs without losing efficacy.
herbalists frequently claim herbs are superior because of some synergistic effect of their components.
apteryx wrote “i picked ginger as an example, rather than another  well-proven botanical such as horse chestnut …” http://www.mskcc.org/mskcc/html/69256.cfm “horse chestnut seed  is classified by the fda as an unsafe herb.”
i picked ginger as an example, rather than  another well-proven botanical such as horse chestnut, because it is also a  conventional food.
we need to inform our students as much as possible about the therapies that are out there … ‘what does the research tell us, which are useful, which are dangerous’,” haramati explains.
i am not making a claim; you are making the claim that there are no adverse  effects from eating pharmacological doses of ginger.
what about the  large majority of the population who are not pregnant?
i remember it as a glaring example of the triumph of legal paranoia over science.
one of those things that med students really ought to be learning [note casual segue back to original topic] is that when people from india and china start eating the western diet, their health worsens.
the other two articles are on the history of the “cam” development in no. america and europe.
did someone with the metabolic syndrome get it because of exposure in utero or because they didn’t exercise or because their mother ate ginger as an anti-emetic?
because of the dshea, i can’t trust the purity and dosage of what’s being sold.
the evaluation skills are often not part of the curriculim.
“the idea is to help students with the stress of the intense course of study and expectations that come with medical school,” lumpkin adds.
a colleague suggested that i come by to this discussion because i have spent much of my 15 yrs of independent research on natural products and herbal medicine.
it is now well known to be a  teratogen.
this is what i’m talking about: year one of the five-year grant began in fall 2001, with cam lectures integrated into basic science classes.
until they are tested, whether they do have side effects or do not have side effects is unknown.
apteryx does indeed seem to know a lot about my field although i’d be happy to help tone things down and add some clarity as i feel i am a stakeholder in natural products research in prescription medicine as well as in the more intellectually-accessible end of the spectrum of so-called complementary and alternative medicine – in fact, some natural products researchers are a bit miffed that their decades of legitimate work has been co-opted by purveyors of fraudulent and deceptive cam modalities at the other ends of the spectrum.
all  ginger may not be equal.
something that cannot be done with materials of unknown composition with variable effects and side effects.
yet even if that is true, it doesn’t follow that additive or  synergistic medicinal effects must exist for substances found in plants that  have useful medicinal properties for humans.
professionalism in medicine, as in any  other “helping” profession, is more compassionate and subtle than  that.
it is disappointing when even academic environments starts to try to set these kind of trends.
in the  former case, it’s not a surprise that higher dose means more toxicity.
the school is integrating cam education into existing course work across all four years of each student’s medical education, and the initiative includes a mind-body class to help students use techniques to manage their own health and improve self-care.
altering any of these regions  changes biologic effects, and after much experience such  “structure-activity” relationships both help us learn about how  things work and allow pharmacologists to make educated guesses about what new  alterations might be useful.
next they’ll be teaching samuel hahnemann’s “principle of similars” and concept of homeopathic dilution in biochemistry and pharmacy classes!
natural medicine was for the  first time in many years taught in german universities; plans were made to  establish a number of professorships in this area.
(this was before any clinical trial of willow bark had been done.)
at recommended doses no  significant adverse reactions are reported.”
i see no reason to respond further to joe, and given his  rhetorical style, hope that he is not actually a practicing md.
the indian practices of ayurveda  reportedly were dictated by one of their gods.
anyway, if the aspirin is safer, that would be one instance for which that was true.
when purified compounds are used, the metabolism of them is simpler than  the metabolism of those compounds plus thousands of others.
the p450 system is regulated by no, and is quite uncoupled, that is it produces superoxide when metabolizing compounds.
once again, this putting the cart before the horse.
if an asthmatic who isn’t pregnant inhales  albuterol, the main effect is desirable and the side effects are minimal.
the increased adverse  effects due to lowering no in pregnancy that i am contemplating would be  independent of any other direct adverse effect anti-emetics might have.
it made them uncomfortable.
apteryx, it is pretty obvious that not all compounds in ginger are pharmacologically active in reducing nausea.
another example relevant to sbm is cinchona bark, from which quinine was  found to be the active antimalarial ingredient, which itself led to the  synthesis of the useful drugs quinidine and mefloquine.
artemisia annua has at least seven antimalarial compounds; but artemisinin is 1,000 times more potent than the next best (“traditional medicinal plants and malaria” m. willocox, et al eds.
fifty two never entertained presenting scientific arguments opposing efficacy/use, and none invited a skeptical presentation.
that journal is not  abstracted on medline.
tyler took a conservative position, for example arguing that willow bark could not work as an analgesic (despite its use on three continents) because the dose of pure salicin was small relative to the maximum permitted dose of aspirin.
vomiting (a not infrequent outcome of nausea) is  mediated largely through smooth muscle which is largely regulated through no.
but show us examples, please.
a  plausible mechanism by which ginger reduces nausea is by causing local  oxidative stress due to activation of p450 enzymes, which pulls down the no  level and reduces the threshold for nausea.
consider the following statement by the former chief medical officer at the southwest college of naturopathic medicine.
the compounds in ginger are xenobiotic as far as human physiology is concerned.
resistance is futile on 30 jun 2008  at 8:18 am [...] on this very blog, including my (in)famous list of medical schools  that have embraced cam and my lament about a medical school that has even gone  so far as to “integrate” so-called [...] # science-based medicine »
# harriet hall on 20 mar 2008 at 6:28 pm “it is entirely rational for consumers who could benefit from those  bioactivities to go on using the plants as people have done for millennia”
sure, the faculty claim that they will be teaching students to “critically assess” the various cam modalities, but you’ll excuse me if i remain skeptical.
i’m sorry to say that out of ~4,000 extracts with which my lab has worked, we have yet to find a single case where synergy might be present.
the only way to actually know something is to actually measure it.
i’m sure you can also appreciate that some of the critical,  uncompromising language used on this blog is not the sort that most mds would  throw at a patient who has approached us in good faith, however much we may  disagree with his or her point of view.
think about the effort it must take to learn all the symptoms and matching homeopathic medications one must learn during training as a homeopathic “physician”.
if the drug companies think the “evidence isn’t promising enough” to justify investigation of those botanical uses i mentioned – most supported by multiple clinical trials and multiple animal studies and, in some, in vitro explorations of mechanism – even though none of their magic-bullet drugs can offer the same bioactivity profiles, then it is entirely rational for consumers who could benefit from those bioactivities to go on using the plants as people have done for millennia.
these days, many patients are too well informed to accept such blanket claims.
on the other hand, what would it take to convince you ginger is not safe and effective?
harriet, your link to the aafp looks exactly right; but, for me, i get to a page that tells me the page does not exist, and invites me to search for the article.
cam then becomes just something more to learn for the tests.
no question, it would be the drug.
vomiting (a not infrequent outcome of nausea) is mediated largely through smooth muscle which is largely regulated through no.
the drugs you mention are indeed improvements over the natural products from which they are derived.
i’ve also been involved in several nih/nci-funded projects over the last six years where my pharmacognosy and med chem colleagues have fractionated plant extracts that we have then tested for in vitro cytotoxic activity against human cancer cell lines.
if you are as old as you’ve represented yourself to be, it’s time to take a good, long look in the mirror and start owning up to the truth: either you didn’t really read sagan’s “the dragon in my garage,” for example, or if you did you missed its point.
regardless of root causes, that’s the trend.
since then, 2 of them are gone with the retirement of their teachers.
i have heard of american pediatricians pressuring immigrant mothers to feed their toddlers unspiced pablum; please tell me you wouldn’t plan to extend that down to the zygote stage!
there is no evidence that the plant as  traditionally used is hepatotoxic, so if the active molecule when concentrated  were hepatotoxic, it might be a case where the drug model reduced safety.
but it’s even finding its way into the heart of the u.s.
there is a balance between potency,  cost, and side effects, and it does not make sense to attack every symptom with  the biggest possible hammer no matter what.
many organs are known to be programmed in utero including liver, heart, vasculature, endocrine system, etc.
if you want to keep me as a patient, you don’t need to recommend traditional medicines, but if you want to express strong opinions on the subject, you had better show that you have seen as much of the relevant research as i have.
entomology, by the way, is far from irrelevant to that very question.
some are longer acting, some are shorter acting, some have less effect on the electrical activity of the heart, which makes them safer for the large doses used in major nerve blocks, others have specific effects on the heart that makes them useful as anti-arrhythmics(procainamide), some have greater or lesser effects on the brain; the entire class of “amide” local anesthetics, of which lidocaine was the first, is less allergenic than its “ester” precursors (of which cocaine is one); and more.
when there is no general understanding for the physiological basis behind  the nausea of early pregnancy, and when there is an inverse correlation between  nausea in pregnancy and adverse pregnancy outcomes, i think it is presumptuous  to assume that treatments that do away with nausea have no side effects.
ginseng has dozens of ginsenosides having different activities in lab studies.
i  am quite sure, however, that there is no compelling reason in biology to think  that this should be the norm, or even common.
for example adults exposed to nutritional deprivation in utero have more health problems as adults.
[...] [...] of the movement expanded publication.
you may be correct, but i would like to judge for myself.
the second largest, bravewell, is the main private force behind development of courses and training programs.
“when the course is an elective, a self-selected group – maybe 10 or 20 students in a class of 180 medical students – will take it,” lumpkin says.
consuming an entire retail container of salt (26 oz or 740 grams) would likely be fatal.
if so, even if their discoveries  have only to do with substances poisonous to insects, it would provide a  theoretical boost to the synergy claim for medicinal properties—even  though the latter are fortuitous, existing only because biochemistry itself is  similar throughout the living world.
don’t we agree  that if the same biologically-active molecule is present in the same dose in a  pharmaceutically-manufactured pill or in a plant extract, that its biological  effect must be the same?
please don’t keep us in suspense any longer.
as a scientist with the training and willingness to investigate these questions, i can only hope that enough interest (i.e., funding) remains in the promise of this field for such questions to be addressed.
the organizers of this curriculum also point out that many people take herbal remedies and dietary supplements, many of which can interact with standard drugs, and cite this as a justification for teaching cam.
all women may not react the same way.
and there is no reason to think that “plant medicine has evolved to work in harmony with the normal (human!)
the only thing that the administrators are going to listen to is money.
ka harriet, sorry, i was writing my comment while you posted yours and didn’t notice that you had already addressed the evidence about ginger.
sure, some consumers assume every plant’s virtues derive from synergistic  or additive effects, and that is not always true.
if such  is found it can be standardized for dose-risk and dose-therapeutic effect  relations, and also provide a potential starting point for new, more specific  (and therefore safer and more effective) synthetic analogues. ”
it was a safe, effective morning sickness treatment that we used for years.
during organ differentiation is the time when a lot of  epigenetic programming of those organs occurs.
others have already begun to explain, but the points are these: a  single molecule lacks the biological (“side”) effects of the many  other molecules that exist in a mixture; a known dose of a single molecule  provides a more predictable biological response—both desired and  undesired—than an unknown or widely-varying dose of that same molecule  (as is typically found in a plant or plant extract); and chemical alterations  of a single molecule can (and have, many, many times) result in new molecules  that are either more specific for a desired biological effect than was their  precursor (and thus as effective at a lower dose, hence reducing undesired  effects) or that have lower incidences of undesired effects, or both.
however, i do assume that hawthorn is better than a nonexistent drug derived therefrom.
but your words above suggest that you would discourage them from using it, pooh-poohing any evidence in its favor, and that if they openly disagreed with you, you would call them “not well informed” and club them with the completely unsupported threat of danger to their embryos.
apteryx knows this as s/he reported “homemade horse chestnut products indeed are unsafe.
effective herbal remedies are drugs just as much as prescription drugs are.
that’s possible, but seems unlikely in light of their having been determined by dose-response trials.
the natural medicines comprehensive database rates it “possibly effective” and warns: using ginger during pregnancy is controversial.
asians, including females, commonly eat this plant as a food and drink it as a beverage, often consuming more than a gram per sitting.
salicylic acid is found in some plants (e.g., meadow sweet, not in willow) and it has antipyretic and analgesic properties.
but most were straightforward.
the bottom line remains: medical professionals need to look at science-based treatments, not your wishful thinking and anecdotes.
these days, many  patients are too well informed to accept such blanket claims.
perhaps the various poisons have additive or even synergistic effects on particular insects.
should pregnant women eat nothing  but white flour and meat (aka the bland cancer-promoting diet)?
you readily offer truisms, written in the phony  passive voice (thank you, calli arcale), such as “it is well known that  mental states can influence physical health,” when the reality is far  less sanguine.
all the tests i know of showed  that they were equal or worse.
sharp knives should be only used by those proficient in their use so that accidents and abuse is avoided.
artemisinin, an  antimalarial from the chinese artemisia tree whose specific identity and proof  of effectiveness was accomplished only 35 years ago, even though it had been  part of herbal fever remedies for hundreds of years, is also now in the process  of being altered for useful analogues.
acute hypoxia can cause nausea.
if santa claus gave me a couple hundred  million to do a study with thousands of pregnant women, would you accept the  results of that study, or would you carp that it was unethical to “put  their babies at risk by letting them consume a botanical”?
“your med school should also have taught you not to label patients who understand that with words like “woo-ery,” “naivete,” and “childish.”
the scientific community is appropriately concerned about such programs for a number of reasons.
yes, a specific molecule would be more bioactive than “natural”  and could cause side effects.
i can certainly identify with apteryx’s enthusiasm for wanting drug  companies to isolate and market the pure compounds from herbal products that  have some reported potential for biological activity.
sadly, sometimes the science supports  traditional practices.
cr as has been discussed, creates a content equity between scientific and pseudo-scientific systems.
no, researchers have not done separate failed clinical trials with every single one of those compounds – that would be impossible as well as foolish – but they have done lab studies showing that different groups of compounds contribute to bioactivity.
afaik, no published data support that.
rather, its  advocates have a distressing tendency to simply assume that because a remedy is  an herb or part of a plant it must be better than pharmaceutical products, even  herb- or plant-derived drugs, because it’s “natural.”
if one carries that pregnancy to term, the infant’s physiology needs to be programmed to survive in a high stress environment.
i also think that if a manufacturer did make a single-compound drug from a complex botanical, it should be their job to demonstrate that it is better than the plant it came from, rather than asking us all just to “simply assume” that the brand new corporate product is superior.
sure, some consumers assume every plant’s virtues derive from synergistic or additive effects, and that is not always true.
professionalism in medicine, as in any other “helping” profession, is more compassionate and subtle than that.
again, i don’t know that there aren’t examples of medicinal  plants containing more than one molecule useful for the same human problem.
i suspect that even biofeedback and purely neurogenic methods will still increase adverse effects via decreasing no levels.
i must admit that i’ve never been interested enough in  the woo-ery of herbalism (it’s so prosaic compared to the really magical  stuff) to investigate this claim, although one hears it all the time.
it seemed that the only peole who read it or were affected by  it were proponents, who felt it as a whip on their behinds so to run even  faster.
going back to whether herbs have components that work together.
and i reject the argument that a plant-based remedy is safe just because  people have used it for centuries without noticing any problems.
in the “wild”, a time of high stress is not a good time to be pregnant.
i don’t at this time intend to expand on what dr. atwood said, although i may do so at one future time.
identifying those compounds and supplying them in pure form at known  dosages allows the therapeutic effect to be titrated against any side effects.
whence do you derive your thoroughgoing inabilities?
since most people aren’t aware of mds’ limited sources of information, they’ll assume that your ignorance is a deliberate choice on your part, probably arising from strong negative opinions of the subject.
# apteryx on 18 mar 2008 at 12:42 pm zetetic – anti-botanical pundits tend to assume that botanicals have  only one active molecule, which presumably causes side effects as well as  benefits.
we seldom worry about “dose-risk relations” when  we eat food, yet somehow we survive.
in fact, they already do  but mostly as semi-synthetic analogs of the naturally-occurring compounds to  overcome metabolism and solubility issues (and the patentability issues  detailed below).
the second article above on the history is in sci rev altern med, and the  third, “postmodern medicine” is also.
07 acad med “theme” issue, so have at it.
that’s why exposing medical students to cam practices and principles is so important, he says.
do you maybe want to back off a bit from your earlier comments?
nitric oxide is involved in some types of nausea.
it is true that there  can be more than one poison in a plant, perhaps each having conferred a  selective advantage against the same species or similar species of insects.
studies have shown clinical efficacy in  chronic venous insufficiency (7) (8) (9)….
the anecdotes of safe and beneficial use of ayurveda go as far back as the  anecdotes of the safe and beneficial use of ginger (that would be for all of  recorded history in india).
artemisia annua tea is a fairly effective treatment for malaria, but concentrated derivatives of artemisinin (which is only one of several active compounds) are even better, and given the degree of misery malaria causes, patients who can afford them will prefer them.
a proper response would be for the doctor to look for, and evaluate, the clinical evidence.
cr’s association with racial equality and  international commercialism, environmental conservation, and other social goods  and artifacts of modern living, benefits from use of common language and a  commonality of thought about dangers and misuse of science (radiation, animal  experimentation, synthetic chemicals and drugs.
as i’ve pointed out before, such programs may start out with the best of intentions with regards to a critical assessment of the evidence (or, in the cases of most cam, the lack of evidence for its efficacy).
# kimball atwood on 19 mar 2008 at 10:02 pm “your med school should also have taught you not to label patients  who understand that with words like “woo-ery,”  “naivete,” and “childish.”
one of those things that med  students really ought to be learning [note casual segue back to original topic]  is that when people from india and china start eating the western diet, their  health worsens.
many mechanisms are known to  involve no.
if ginger is effective, by identifying and isolating the anti-nausea  component we may be lucky and remove a component that interferes with clotting  (if it exists).
botanists, in general,  do not know how to do that.
it used to focus on whole plants, but now spends most of its time pursuing pharmacological studies of active molecules of interest.
but it’s even finding  its way into the heart of the u.s. [...] # science-based medicine »
anyway, my feed reader is set on rss 2.0 and i’ve got to go to the  site to see stuff published this month.
not only is this sort of material being taught in elective courses, but it is being “integrated” into every aspect of every year of the four year curriculum: the first year will include an introduction to cam practices in ambulatory care.
# joe on 19 mar 2008 at 6:34 pm harriet wrote “herbalists frequently claim herbs are superior because  of some synergistic effect of their components.
the “cam” process is quite different: it assumes, for various implausible reasons, that preparations made from the whole root (in this case) are preferable to purified molecules, both in safety and effectiveness; it neglects the nearly impossible task of standardizing potencies of the several potential biologically-active molecules in the plant, given the number of varieties, the ever-changing growing conditions, and the many extraction methods; and it makes an arbitrary and therapeutically irrational distinction between “natural” and “synthetic,” always preferring the former—whereas the latter has the greater chance of being useful, for the reasons mentioned above.
this is not a law of nature; it’s an article of  faith, touted without evidence.
and it would be nice if in every case, their  molecule was significantly more potent without having serious side effects, or  equally potent without any more side effects or greatly increased cost.
it looked to me like the pseudoscience interest rose and fell over time in a cyclic fashion, like so many other social phenomena, but with separate waves of differing methods out of phase.
it would be the same idea: mixing nonscience with science.
at one point the anti-war crowd were wearing buttons that read “send joe pyne to college.”
it was taken off the market because of junk science lawsuits, and a lot of women ended up taking remedies that were potentially more dangerous.
indeed, there are a few limited cases where synergy among herbal components might support the superior action of a whole herb – my favorite case is the work of frank stermitz at csu in the pnas report cited by apteryx above.
looks like we will be covering some previous ground, but there is enough  new every 4 years to do so – maybe evry year at this rate of change.
i would hesitate to take a prescription drug that had not been extensively tested.
here the same concepts are taking over the medical school curriculum.
# joe on 19 mar 2008 at 5:15 pm
we are trying to do that now with milk thistle compounds but  the reality is that the pure, naturally-occurring compounds cannot be patented  and lack of a protected ip position provides no financial incentive for the  average $800 million investment required to bring a drug to market in the us.
i said i wasn’t going to waste further time responding to joe’s posts, but for the benefit of any readers who do not know what pharmacognosy is, it is the pharmacological study of botanicals or other natural products.
alcohol has been used as a food for millennia.
# ellazimm on 18 mar 2008 at 12:21 am sorry, sorry, i discovered my problem.
other nausea is  exacerbated by placebos.
commercial products are made with specific techniques to remove the toxic compounds — some people seem to think there is no such thing as standardization of botanicals, but there is — and have generally minor side effects in clinical trials.
instead of drumming up fear of spicy vegetables, perhaps they  should start trying to quantify the toxic dose of grain-fed red meat.
perhaps you can cite some that are compelling.
the topics and therapies that georgetown is integrating into its curriculum are neither well-established science nor the standard of care.
however, it is very irritating to the stomach.
do any of you know of examples of “whole” herbal medicines that were tested against the isolated active ingredient(s) and found to be superior?
http://jp.physoc.org/cgi/content/full/565/1/27 http://www.pnas.org/cgi/content/full/104/31/12796 some of these effects are subtle and may not show up until middle age.
maybe that is not “knowledge” to you, but it is certainly suggestive evidence.
at the very best, we have seen nothing more than additive action among compounds where more than one was present in the extract.
or, perhaps they will just ‘imagine’ they know better; as you seem to do.
the second largest, bravewell, is the main private force behind  development of courses and training programs.
but where scientific studies supported herbs, he was willing to acknowledge the facts.
(apparently for the better, if an inability to rape and  pillage the rest of the world is the only “symptom.”)
# apteryx on 18 mar 2008 at 12:47 pm daedalus -
however, it is very irritating  to the stomach.
should it be taught before or after the section on heavy metal poisoning and how to treat it?
perhaps the various poisons have additive or even synergistic effects on  particular insects.
dr. atwood writes: “my own view is that this kind of evidence suggests that it may be  useful to investigate ginger for a possible anti-nausea substance(s).
it is just a shame that they are cutting cutting down on proven scientific methods to pander to the woo-meisters.
also, some botanicals cannot be  turned into single-compound drugs without losing efficacy.
that journal is not abstracted on medline.
no blocks formation of superoxide by hemes.
“cam” therapies needs to be validated through sciencefirst.
typical claims of that sort by “cam” types betray their naivete about nature.
the anecdotes of safe and beneficial use of ayurveda go as far back as the anecdotes of the safe and beneficial use of ginger (that would be for all of recorded history in india).
more often, i think,  concentrating any one of the multiple active compounds in a plant and giving an  enormous dose of that alone is a good way to increase side effects.
however, if your med school told you  anything about botanicals, it should have told you that it is very common for  plants to contain whole suites of structurally similar secondary metabolites,  which may serve many purposes other than “poisons” – of  course, what is a “poison” to a bacterium may be beneficial for us!
each of the projects described above by apteryx would take several, r01-sized nih grants to accomplish.
my blog-fu is not strong today.
i am simply fascinated by the promise of herbal mixtures and their components as a source of novel chemistries that have allowed us to find new mechanisms of action to treat diseases.
in fact, the purpose of medical school is to teach medical students the basics.
despite my willingness to consider this  claim and a search of the scientific literature, there is unfortunately no  evidence i can identify to support this claim.
apteryx wrote “that’s clever, but if you walk away from your med school with, let’s say, the opinion that ginger can’t possibly help morning sickness but has been proven to interact with warfarin, a subset of your patients will be better informed than you are and will know it.”
any treatment that reduces no levels would be expected to have these effects.
berberine-containing plants, which also have a compound that disables the bacterial mdr pump, making the berberine many times more effective.
thus if an asthmatic came to an  emergency room needing treatment, he was likely to get a drug that worked but  caused unpleasant heart-racing as a side effect, or perhaps he was denied that  drug because it would have been too dangerous if he also had heart disease.
identifying those compounds and supplying them in pure form at known dosages allows the therapeutic effect to be titrated against any side effects.
cocaine has a high potential for abuse both as pure cocaine hydrochloride and also as coca leaf.
also, above,  you are assuming that there are significant side effects to begin with,  otherwise we could hardly demand that consumers spend more money on the drug  product to “lessen” them.
in the case of plants and insects, the  phenomena are based on more than that: selection pressures imposed by each on  the other over hundreds of millions of years.
has anyone in recorded history ever dropped dead from eating stir-fried ginger?
thus dangerously high blood pressures and several other side effects would have been added to those previously mentioned.
there are many more plausible reasons that indians didn’t conquer the world than because they ate too much ginger.
# harriet hall on 20 mar 2008 at 11:49 am i’m sure some herbal remedies do contain more than one active  ingredient.
if one  carries that pregnancy to term, the infant’s physiology needs to be  programmed to survive in a high stress environment.
a common herbalist stance is that whole plants have fewer side effects than  pure compounds because the plant contains other compounds that offset the side  effects of the active constituent.
[...] treatment), people in general losing [...] its way into some of the most prestigious academic medical centers in the u.s. (for example, georgetown and beth israel)
the idea that the health benefits of fruits and vegetables can be replaced by a vitamin pill has already been clearly debunked.
acetyl salicylic acid (aspirin) is more pharmacologically useful and much better tolerated.
if there were only one molecule in horse chestnut that affected leg edema, or only one molecule in hawthorn that improved heart function, some drug company would by now have sifted it out, slightly altered and patented it, and be doing phase iii trials.
# apteryx on 18 mar 2008 at 4:45 pm all i can offer for ginger is: a, one rat study of teratogenicity (not  finding any); b, no increase in birth defects in any of several human trials;  and c, the fact that in parts of india pregnant women make a point of eating a  lot of ginger, and they reproduce successfully enough to have one hell of a  population problem.
tyler took a conservative position, for example  arguing that willow bark could not work as an analgesic (despite its use on  three continents) because the dose of pure salicin was small relative to the  maximum permitted dose of aspirin.
i think we have agreed that this can happen, if it were a general principle, we would know it.
the rss 2.0 feed goes up through the  end of feb.
i  was not charging you or any particular, hypothetical patient with similar  notions.
removing compounds that don’t reduce nausea and that do cause side effects will both increase efficacy and reduce side effects.
maybe we should have been emulating the plants all along and using multiple compounds.
starflyer wrote: “thank goodness i’m at a med school where cam was handled more skeptically.
each of  the projects described above by apteryx would take several, r01-sized nih  grants to accomplish.
the “cam” process is quite different: it assumes, for various  implausible reasons, that preparations made from the whole root (in this case)  are preferable to purified molecules, both in safety and effectiveness; it  neglects the nearly impossible task of standardizing potencies of the several  potential biologically-active molecules in the plant, given the number of  varieties, the ever-changing growing conditions, and the many extraction  methods; and it makes an arbitrary and therapeutically irrational distinction  between “natural” and “synthetic,” always preferring  the former—whereas the latter has the greater chance of being useful, for  the reasons mentioned above.
there is an inverse correlation with nausea levels and adverse pregnancy outcomes.
i don’t say that only formal trials mean something.
the mskcc site joe linked to has the  following to say: “commercial products should be standardized to 50 mg of aescin and  free from aesculin, a hydroxycoumarin.
do you have any reason to think there are any?
pure cocaine hydrochloride can be used as a local  anesthetic.
a few  years ago the best beta receptor agonist, isoproterenol (also synthetic), was  not specific to receptor types 1 or 2.
if you suggest in utero or in vivo exposure to ginger could possibly have prevented indians from industrializing “first,” you imply that ginger consumption could possibly create some unspecified biological condition that prevented them from being good productive capitalists and conquistadors.
joe  mentioned varro tyler, one of the few legitimate academics in the field, who  did not agree with it (see “tenet #3″ here: http://www.quackwatch.org/01quackeryrelatedtopics/paraherbalism.html ).
stress is a low no state, the “adverse outcomes” can also be thought of as normal stress responses.
the usual order of things in medical education is that modalities to be included in the medical curriculum must first have considerable evidence of efficacy such that they are considered standard of care.
big pharma does develop drugs from plants and folk remedies.
i would hesitate to take a prescription drug that had not been extensively  tested.
that could mean either that the concentrated fraction is more  toxic than the crude extract when given in equal volumes (which means that a  far higher quantity of the toxic molecule(s) is present), or that the  concentrated fraction is more toxic than the crude extract when given at a much  lower dose, so that the dose of the toxic molecule(s) is identical.
this sort of process has been successfully used countless times.
here seemed to be the missing link that turned the heads of the academics and a significant percentage of mystical-bending practitioners, and spurred interest the splay of non-professionals and quasi-professionals whose ads one sees in small weekly newspapers and in yellow pages.
i was asking for support for the general claim that if  you select a random botanical and make a concentrated drug from one of its  active molecules, that drug will be “safer” than the botanical  – which is ludicrous on the face of it.
and much  -including the caustic comments – was redlined.
i don’t know how many readers remember a coarse talk-show host in nyc  in the ’60s by the name of joe pyne.
when there is no general understanding for the physiological basis behind the nausea of early pregnancy, and when there is an inverse correlation between nausea in pregnancy and adverse pregnancy outcomes, i think it is presumptuous to assume that treatments that do away with nausea have no side effects.
also, in nature the presence of multiple antipathogenic compounds probably has the advantage of delaying the evolution of resistance.
ka sorry to put this on this thread
that is the rational process for discovering and developing new, useful drugs, as has previously been done with numerous substances found in nature.
we have also been highly critical of them here at sbm – for example take a look as wallace sampson’s excellent analysis of academic medicine here and here, and david gorski’s summary of medical academic woo here.
can they take it that a  plant is safe enough for medicinal use, if hundreds of millions of people have  eaten it for dinner?
the presence of woo in the curriculum should count against a school in accreditation, and in the awarding of research grants.
not a theoretical basis that is subject to analysis.
some good news on the academic front on 04 feb 2009 at 8:01 am [...]
also, in nature the presence of multiple antipathogenic compounds probably  has the advantage of delaying the evolution of resistance.
all las, beginning with cocaine, have similar tertiary structures: a  lipophilic end (typically an aromatic ring), a hydrocarbon chain (no more than  2-3 carbons, typically), and a hydrophilic end.
if it’s that easy to find “the” active ingredient and concentrate it without losing benefits or creating hazards, there’s a lot of money to be made; why don’t they get cracking?
apteryx wrote “i hope you do not display open contempt for non-md  patients if their greater knowledge of botany causes them to disagree with some  opinion you hold dear.”
the plant medicine has evolved to work in harmony  with the normal body processes rather than taking over its function as many drug therapies do.
why do you  think they developed aspirin and digitalis?
apteryx does indeed seem to know a lot about my field although  i’d be happy to help tone things down and add some clarity as i feel i am  a stakeholder in natural products research in prescription medicine as well as  in the more intellectually-accessible end of the spectrum of so-called  complementary and alternative medicine – in fact, some natural products  researchers are a bit miffed that their decades of legitimate work has been  co-opted by purveyors of fraudulent and deceptive cam modalities at the other  ends of the spectrum.
and yes, if that were common it would make herbalism more intriguing to science-based mds.
that “formulation” (ouch!) is the basis for modern pharmaceutical development.
” apteryx, you misconstrued what i wrote, possibly because i did not make myself clear.
despite my willingness to consider this claim and a search of the scientific literature, there is unfortunately no evidence i can identify to support this claim.
i threw that out there as an  attempt to be humorous, but also to make the point that even though things have  been used for a long time doesn’t mean they are safe.
the mind is an important factor, and this has been demonstrated by research.
artemisinin, an antimalarial from the chinese artemisia tree whose specific identity and proof of effectiveness was accomplished only 35 years ago, even though it had been part of herbal fever remedies for hundreds of years, is also now in the process of being altered for useful analogues.
i would not take health advice from a botanist either [unless it was jim duke!] although that would be better than taking it from an entomologist.
it is not clear whether  the low-dose salicin in willow bark tea is more or less irritating than  high-dose aspirin.
with the amount of art in medicine, early teaching of woo cannot be a good thing.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15802789?ordinalpos=9&itool=entrezsystem2.pentrez.pubmed.pubmed_resultspanel.pubmed_rvdocsum http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11064004?ordinalpos=3&itool=entrezsystem2.pentrez.pubmed.pubmed_resultspanel.pubmed_rvdocsum both flavonoids and procyanidins are relevant to hawthorn’s cardiovascular benefits.
with botanicals, you can sometimes go to the grocery  store, or your own backyard, and get perhaps weaker effects for $2.
taxol, the anticancer drug whose structure was solved by one of my current senior colleagues, is a special story of a natural compound that made it to the prescription drug market because the process to synthesize it from a renewable resource was patented, not the molecule itself.
” apteryx, you misconstrued what i wrote, possibly because i did not make  myself clear.
you are saying that the single molecule will be more  bioactive in terms of desired effects yet less bioactive when it comes to  causing side effects — and that this is not just occasionally true but a  general rule.
although 25% of our current prescription drugs can be traced to molecules  from natural sources, corporate investment in natural products drug discovery  has diminished leaving much of the work to government-funded academic  researchers.
a how-to primer on 26 jan 2009 at 9:38 am [...] its way into some of the most prestigious academic medical centers in  the u.s. (for example, georgetown and beth israel)
if such is found it can be standardized for dose-risk and dose-therapeutic effect relations, and also provide a potential starting point for new, more specific (and therefore safer and more effective) synthetic analogues. ”
the details of which specific adverse outcomes occur are complex and could be all over the map.
any treatment that reduces no levels would be expected to have these  effects.
these effects would be very difficult to see, and as i see them are part of the “normal” spectrum of outcomes of pregnancy.
apteryx wrote “varro tyler was a pharmacologist …” no, his field was pharmacognosy, may i politely suggest that you look it up.
and there is no reason to think that “plant medicine has  evolved to work in harmony with the normal (human!)
there are half a dozen human trials for morning sickness, all positive, plus a vast amount of human experience saying that ginger relieves nausea.
they will become the thought leaders in this field.”
aspirin is preferable to willow tree bark and digitalis to  foxglove.
just like other members have pointed out, i too believe the usa should be regulating more carefully its medical schools and start removing accreditation from schools with unscientific curriculum.
all i can offer for ginger is: a, one rat study of teratogenicity (not finding any);
a cam elective will also be offered to fourth-year students.
the only way to determine if there actually are side  effects of using ginger or the pharmacologically active compounds in ginger is  to test them.
to the extent that an herb has activity, it is a  contaminated drug.
i agree, but the reason is a simple one: most “herbal dietary  supplements” have much lower doses of biologically-active substances,  whether helpful or harmful, than do prescription drugs.
that’s a very simple bioactivity.
i agree, but the reason is a simple one: most “herbal dietary supplements” have much lower doses of biologically-active substances, whether helpful or harmful, than do prescription drugs.
ws # apteryx on 19 mar 2008 at 9:35 am dr. atwood - i have seen someone (can’t remember who) make the following argument:  suppose you were to go into a pharmacy blindfolded, pick either one herbal  dietary supplement or one prescription drug derived from a natural product off  the shelf at random, then take the whole bottle at once.
why do you think they developed aspirin and digitalis?
although some clinicians warn that using ginger during  pregnancy or breast-feeding (at doses that are higher than the amount eaten in  foods) might cause harmful effects, there is no objective evidence of harm to  the mother, fetus, or infants.”
it is not necessary to teach “acupuncture points” in regular anatomy class, particularly when there is no evidence that these points mean anything on a strictly anatomic and physiological basis.
again, why do you fret so about the “side effects” of ginger?
consider the  following statement by the former chief medical officer at the southwest  college of naturopathic medicine.
those contaminants vary according to where and when you  harvest the herb.
as far as i know that was never done, but it would be the  obvious analogy to the “cam” preference for whole plants or parts  of plants—except, of course, that if such a preparation were taken by the  oral route it would be relatively innocuous, and the adrenergic molecules  themselves would not be sufficiently absorbed to have any effect, useful or  otherwise.
expanding mitochondria and erythrocyte production is important, and both of those are directly increased by high no levels.
i don’t know how many readers remember a coarse talk-show host in nyc in the ’60s by the name of joe pyne.
it is well known that mental states can influence physical health.
but somehow i don’t  think you would be less fearful of african wild plant foods than of the  european cultivars that we’ve used for less than two millennia.
# apteryx on 21 mar 2008 at 3:39 pm i don’t assume that willow bark is better than aspirin, opium is  better than codeine, or artemisia is better than artemisinin (if you can afford  the drug and, where it is prescription-only, gain an md’s permission to  obtain it).
in the vast majority of cases, fractionation of plant  extracts leads to an enrichment of cytotoxic activity (not a loss as might be  expected if there were synergistic components) that can then be narrowed down  to a single pure compound or related pure compounds.
i think the testing for most herbal remedies has generally been inferior to the testing for prescription drugs.
there have been enough trials of horse chestnut for leg edema that it received  a favorable cochrane review.
and yes, if that were common it would make  herbalism more intriguing to science-based mds.
[...] site admin | free wordpress themescience-based medicine copyright © 2012 all rights reserved .
i speculate that the reason that very high no levels are desirable during the first trimester is that is when most all of the differentiation is happening and when dna replication and epigenetic programming has to have the highest fidelity.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14634571?dopt=abstract http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15802416?dopt=abstract my own view is that this kind of evidence suggests that it may be useful to  investigate ginger for a possible anti-nausea substance(s).
(real life example: ginseng contains individual ginsenosides that both raise and lower blood pressure in animal studies, but as a whole extract tends to lower blood pressure.)
he had very little if any interest in human use data; he was a pure scientist.
he had very little if any interest in human use  data; he was a pure scientist.
once enough practicing mds are taught these principles and practices, once enough experts in the field are available to testify as expert witnesses, etc.
if i come into your office and suggest trying ginger rather than the side-effect-heavy drug you might prescribe for my motion sickness, and you go off on a tirade suggesting, like joe above, that i may belong to a “pseudomedical cult” or, like daedalus above, that consumers of non-european cuisines may be somehow defective — well, next time i have a minor condition to deal with, i will say the heck with you and look for an herbalist.
it looked to me like the pseudoscience  interest rose and fell over time in a cyclic fashion, like so many other social  phenomena, but with separate waves of differing methods out of phase.
is consumption of salt without side effects?
ka # kimball atwood on 17 mar 2008 at 10:27 pm harriet, sorry, i was writing my comment while you posted yours and  didn’t notice that you had already addressed the evidence about ginger.
although some clinicians warn that using ginger during pregnancy or breast-feeding (at doses that are higher than the amount eaten in foods) might cause harmful effects, there is no objective evidence of harm to the mother, fetus, or infants.”
expanding mitochondria and erythrocyte production is  important, and both of those are directly increased by high no levels.
maybe we  should have been emulating the plants all along and using multiple compounds.
there is no evidence whatsoever that this impairs their reproduction.
however, one thing about the “cam” movement is that it tends not to e interested in the hard, involved science necessary to identify the active compound(s) in the herbs and how they may act and interact.
should ayurveda be taught in medical school?
as for not being a program of advocacy, if that’s the case, then why is georgetown not only teaching but also activelyencouraging the use of “mind-body” skills that may or may not have any scientific basis by its own medical students?
next time dean mitchell asks me for my $500 annual contribution (“suggested minimum”)
animal studied  and in vitro mechanism studies are hard and involved, indeed, but i hope you  don’t mean to imply that if they can’t completely explicate all  mechanisms of action, they will never be “hard” enough to satisfy.
ginger does have an ld50.
adult hypertension is a known consequence of “stress” in utero.
“there’s a lot of money to be made; why don’t they get cracking?”
apteryx wrote “i hope you do not display open contempt for non-md patients if their greater knowledge of botany causes them to disagree with some opinion you hold dear.”
not a theoretical basis that is  subject to analysis.
offhand, i find that “hospitalized elderly patients taking  digitoxin had a lower rate of toxicity than those taking digoxin.”
i must admit that i’ve never been interested enough in the woo-ery of herbalism (it’s so prosaic compared to the really magical stuff) to investigate this claim, although one hears it all the time.
(of course, drug companies might be happy to license a novel natural product derivative if you had a clear ip position and significant preclinical and early clinical data supporting safety and efficacy).
many compounds in plants are there to  deter predation by herbivores.
animal studies  suggest that both rutin and hyperforin are necessary for st. john’s wort  to be active.
apteryx wrote “i picked ginger as an example, rather than another well-proven botanical such as horse chestnut …” http://www.mskcc.org/mskcc/html/69256.cfm “horse chestnut seed is classified by the fda as an unsafe herb.”
i don’t know if ginger has adverse effects during pregnancy.
yes, a specific molecule would be more bioactive than “natural” and could cause side effects.
# apteryx on 19 mar 2008 at 12:53 pm i’m afraid addressing all the mistaken ideas in the above message  would take a very lengthy response, which as dr. sampson would note, would be a  distraction from the major thread.
medicine is, or should be, more than just chemicals and technology.
anyway, if the aspirin is safer, that would be one instance  for which that was true.
some, like ginger, are foods.
acute  hypoxia can cause nausea.
the virus is spreading.
one on the need for reform in teaching of “cam” in medical schools is in academic medicine, 2000-2002 – see pubmed listing.
ending that pregnancy in the safest way, such as via preterm  birth might be one of the “normal” responses to low no.
(of course, drug companies might be happy to license a novel  natural product derivative if you had a clear ip position and significant  preclinical and early clinical data supporting safety and efficacy).
all it was was b6 and doxylamine, both available over the counter.
your, apparent belief that ginger isknown to work against nausea indicates that you are not well-informed.
others have already begun to explain, but the points are these: a single molecule lacks the biological (“side”) effects of the many other molecules that exist in a mixture; a known dose of a single molecule provides a more predictable biological response—both desired and undesired—than an unknown or widely-varying dose of that same molecule (as is typically found in a plant or plant extract); and chemical alterations of a single molecule can (and have, many, many times) result in new molecules that are either more specific for a desired biological effect than was their precursor (and thus as effective at a lower dose, hence reducing undesired effects) or that have lower incidences of undesired effects, or both.
the american cancer society on ginger: http://www.cancer.org/docroot/eto/content/eto_5_3x_ginger.asp?sitearea=eto “ginger reduces nausea, according to some, but not all, controlled studies in humans.
“then they’ll form their own groups until the entire medical school class is exposed to the utilization of mind-body skills.”
it’s not entirely implausible, in a way: many biologically-active molecules in plants, including some that have become medicines, appear to have evolved as defenses against predators (mainly insects).
who does the accrediting?
what sort of harm could they have identified?
let’s look at one of their staple  treatments from the opposite direction of time and innovation: albuterol is a  synthetic “beta-2 agonist.”
but how about them funders?
to put it in economic terms, since medicine is a lucrative industry these days: you will lose business.
the fact is, that membership of a material in a group called “herbs” or “chemicals” or “foods” or “drugs” or “pharmaceuticals”, or “white powders” or “sold in containers of lethal quantities” tells us nothing about the safety or dangerousness of the material.
that is the rational process for  discovering and developing new, useful drugs, as has previously been done with  numerous substances found in nature.
that means that it stimulates beta-2 adrenergic receptors, which mainly causes bronchodilation (useful for asthma) and uterine relaxation.
i think that you are more likely to find single compounds effective in a cytotoxicity assay.
many mechanisms are known to involve no.
no question, it would be the drug.”
65 responses so far
i would not take health advice from a botanist either [unless it was jim  duke!] although that would be better than taking it from an entomologist.
by “woo-ery,” i was referring to the woo aspects of herbalism, which does not mean that there are not non-woo aspects, namely, investigating folk uses to find useful medicinal substances in plants—as i thought i had made clear from previous examples.
artemisia  annua has at least seven antimalarial compounds; but artemisinin is 1,000 times  more potent than the next best (“traditional medicinal plants and  malaria” m. willocox, et al eds.
why do we allow such gullibiliy among the people and even among college graduates?
aim cam curriculum at all students through required courses.
addicted yes, addicted to an herb.
so scientific medicine becomes a stand-in enemy for unhappy and somatiforming souls, whose internally generated conflicts can be comfortably externalized and then written about, meeting-about, and scolded through faculty meetings.
that’s just wishful thinking.
there have been enough trials of horse chestnut for leg edema that it received a favorable cochrane review.
which would be more  likely to severely harm or kill you?
“one of the reasons cam is usually offered as an elective is that there’s just no time or room in u.s. medical schools to fit in one more massive subject,” says michael lumpkin, ph.d., professor and chair of the department of physiology and biophysics at georgetown.
a more plausible explanation of why indians didn’t industrialize first is that (a) they didn’t have large accessible coal reserves, which is not causally correlated with consumption of spicy foods, and (b) they live in the tropics, an area historically not conducive to sweatshop labor — which is.
if those md graduates sent letters to the schools they graduated from saying no more donations while woo is being promoted, and that instead their donations would go to non-woo promoting competing schools, i think the promotion of woo would stop.
at recommended doses no significant adverse reactions are reported.”
since, excluding diseases caused by known deficiencies and pathogens, asians  are not known for being physically feeble and debilitated, i assume that you  were implying ginger could have somehow mysteriously affected indians’  mental faculties.
joe mentioned varro tyler, one of the few legitimate academics in the field, who did not agree with it (see “tenet #3″ here: http://www.quackwatch.org/01quackeryrelatedtopics/paraherbalism.html ).
let’s look at one of their staple treatments from the opposite direction of time and innovation: albuterol is a synthetic “beta-2 agonist.”
address knowledge, skills and attitudes regarding cam.
(i am now repeating what i placed in a prior entry.)
i suspect it is all about money.
you say that only formal trials  mean anything, then you don’t seem interested in the results of the  trials that have been published.
(a. pengelly “the constituents of medicinal plants” cabi, 2004 p. 18).
i prefer not to use new prescription drugs until there has been time  for post-marketing surveillance to pick up unexpected problems.
# apteryx on 21 mar 2008 at 10:37 am dr. kroll - thanks for your very interesting remarks!
there are at least thousands of compounds, more likely tens or hundreds of thousands.
yet they promise that the drug-discovery process will give us souped-up effects with reduced side effects.
i am not trying to drum up fear of ginger, but rather an absence of  ignorance of the pro and con effects of ginger.
it may interest apteryx that i had the bittersweet honor of stepping in for varro tyler at a symposium held in 2001 a month after his untimely death and that my current research is actually on pure components in milk thistle (just do a pubmed search for me; however, i study their anticancer action rather than their hepatoprotective action).
(a. pengelly “the constituents of  medicinal plants” cabi, 2004 p. 18).
between year two and three of the program, a biomedical research component for students will be introduced; in the remaining years, cam will be further integrated into the rest of the preclinical courses and most of the clinical clerkships.
apteryx knows this as s/he reported “homemade  horse chestnut products indeed are unsafe.
(this was before any clinical trial of  willow bark had been done.)
think of hrt (hormone replacement  therapy).
“over the next five years we’ll be training additional faculty facilitators,” haramati says.
i’ve been fantasizing a button reading “send pec to  medical school.”
sadly, sometimes the science supports traditional practices.
# joe on 18 mar 2008 at 11:34 am harriet, your link to the aafp looks exactly right; but, for me, i get to a  page that tells me the page does not exist, and invites me to search for the  article.
you present a broad and complex topic (“stress”) as though it  were specific and simple.
the drugs you mention are indeed improvements over the natural products  from which they are derived.
our lecture on herbal medications was titled “the great american medicine show.”
# apteryx on 19 mar 2008 at 2:49 pm well, daedalus, when i observed that many of the 2.5 billion indians and  chinese eat ginger regularly, and yet there are 2.5 billion of them, you  responded as follows: “if “everyone” in india eats ginger during their  pregnancy, perhaps they are all immune, or perhaps if they didn’t eat so  much ginger over historic time we would now be speaking hindi because indians  would have industrialized first and conquered the world instead of europeans.
in addition the student has to learn all the dilutions and the ritualistic shaking – when to tap with a leather bound book and when not.
i won’t get into the statin argument here except to make a point that may not have been made before: as drugs go, these are quite new and have a huge upside potential for improvement.
in pharmacology class, all that would have to be done would be, when teaching drug interactions, to include herbal remedies and supplements among the compounds and drugs that can interact with each new medication that is discussed and perhaps include a module on such remedies.
the average plant has hundreds of secondary metabolites, often in groups of closely related compounds.
i keep reading about contaminants and inconsistent dosages.
i think the  testing for most herbal remedies has generally been inferior to the testing for  prescription drugs.
on the one hand it would give them tax exempt status, on the other hand it would be a lot easier to justify not teaching them.
you reflect an ethnocentric viewpoint, not only in terming traditional means of symptom relief “quackery,” but in terming a capsule or two of ginger “excessive” because it is “more than is used to spice food.”
but you write, “a physician who knows nothing about health except  which drug to prescribe, or what diagnostic and surgical technology to use, is  incomplete as a health expert”—as though “which drug to  prescribe” and “technology” overwhelm physiology, anatomy,  biochemistry, neurobiology, immunology, hematology, histology, embryology,  genetics, pathophysiology, pharmacology (which is not the same thing as  “which drug to prescribe”), the natural history of disease,  learning how to take histories that are useful, other interviewing techniques,  physical examinations, making sense of signs and symptoms, smatterings (at  least) of almost every clinical field from psychiatry to pediatrics to  obstetrics to internal medicine to surgery and various surgical  sub-specialties, radiology, dermatology and more, learning preventive medicine  and clinical problem-solving, learning how to think about clinical research and  literature, and all the rest of the enormous body of knowledge and skills that  constitute becoming a physician.
yes, it’s a general rule, and yes, there is plenty of supporting  evidence.
it is now well known to be a teratogen.
acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) is easier on the stomach than purified salicylic acid was, although aspirin still kills thousands of people annually.
he often lumped-together the good, the bad and the ugly of clinical trials to support herbalist claims.
anyway, how can you claim that your potent single molecule will be both  safer and more effective?
an alternative  explanation is that consumers’ perceptions of the effects of most  “supplements” are not based on specific biological activity.
i suspect there is no method that will reliably reduce nausea in pregnancy  without increasing adverse outcomes in pregnancy (at least slightly).
medical school is where students learn the basics.
a few years before that, the only choice for a beta-adrenergic agent would have been the naturally-occurring epinephrine (adrenaline), which is not only non-selective between beta-1 and 2 receptors, but also between alpha and beta receptors.
as a general principle, if an effective herbal remedy is found, its safety  and effectiveness are likely to be improved by purification and isolation of  active components.
the nccam appropriated something like $10 million for fifteen med schools pg programs.
i’m sorry, pec; i want to like you, in the sense  that i’m content to believe that you are sincere but that you are a  victim of a woefully inadequate grounding in both science and in critical  thinking skills, and for that i feel genuinely sorry for you.
the editors did not want to publish the article – a subject for longer exposition – they objected to the time delay, the “orientation” and so forth.
announcing that every substance is toxic in excess is not a valuable revelation.
( http://web.archive.org/web/20050825191221/http://www.scnm.edu/news/uploads/ms.pdf  ) excuse me, but equipotent doses are equipotent, no matter what the  packaging.
he was a right-wing shock-jock, kind of a precursor of bill o’reilly and rush limbaugh.
why don’t med schools teach mesmerism?
you could make the same claim above about any food plant whatsoever.
indeed, if they do, they often are labeled as “close-minded” or “intolerant.”
those contaminants vary according to where and when you harvest the herb.
yes, the virus is spreading and it may not be long until woo becomes standard treatment.
two more  examples are antibiotics and narcotics.
maybe ginger  does cause problems during pregnancy but perhaps ginger is also good treatment  for intestinal parasites native to india and if you have intestinal parasites  getting rid of them with ginger is worth the side effects that ginger has.
since then, 2 of them are gone with  the retirement of their teachers.
it provides at least two drugs  (digoxin and digitoxin) with similar action; but very different pharmacological  profiles.
more from the acs “ginger may interfere with blood clotting  …”
these botanicals have whole suites of active ingredients, and patients will gain more benefit from multicomponent products.
afaik, no  published data support that.
is consumption of salt without  side effects?
if ginger is effective, by identifying and isolating the anti-nausea component we may be lucky and remove a component that interferes with clotting (if it exists).
the reason this week is, quite simply, having read dr. atwood’s excellent two part post misleading language: the common currency of “cam” characterizations (part i; part ii).
it is not clear whether the low-dose salicin in willow bark tea is more or less irritating than high-dose aspirin.
some proven benefit is better than no benefit.
the  physiology that causes the nausea may have a beneficial role all by itself.
the  ginger plant evolved to have these compounds in it for its own reasons, not to  provide medicinal effects to humans.
however, one thing about the “cam” movement is that it tends  not to e interested in the hard, involved science necessary to identify the  active compound(s) in the herbs and how they may act and interact.
though hardly religious myself, it sounded good to me at the time.
if you are as  old as you’ve represented yourself to be, it’s time to take a good,  long look in the mirror and start owning up to the truth: either you  didn’t really read sagan’s “the dragon in my garage,”  for example, or if you did you missed its point.
however, in a plant like hawthorn it appears that both flavonoids and procyanidins have beneficial bioactivities, and that multiple compounds in each class are bioactive, so you are not likely to be able to fish out one molecule and get the same complex in vivo activity profile.
also, above, you are assuming that there are significant side effects to begin with, otherwise we could hardly demand that consumers spend more money on the drug product to “lessen” them.
like the program at the university of michigan, the cam program at georgetown is funded by a grant from the national center for complementary and alternative medicine (nccam).
perhaps it is because they have looked at these plants and decided that the evidence isn’t promising enough to make it a good business proposition.
the mskcc site joe linked to has the following to say: “commercial products should be standardized to 50 mg of aescin and free from aesculin, a hydroxycoumarin.
salicylic acid is found in some plants (e.g., meadow sweet, not in willow)
if a compound has no therapeutic effect in reducing nausea, it may still have physiological effect in causing side effects.
harriet wrote “herbalists frequently claim herbs are superior because of some synergistic effect of their components.
no one was keeping statistics during those centuries.
reading this brochure, i truly have to worry whether woo really is the future of american medicine, as has beensuggested in some quarters.
well, daedalus, when i observed that many of the 2.5 billion indians and chinese eat ginger regularly, and yet there are 2.5 billion of them, you responded as follows: “if “everyone” in india eats ginger during their pregnancy, perhaps they are all immune, or perhaps if they didn’t eat so much ginger over historic time we would now be speaking hindi because indians would have industrialized first and conquered the world instead of europeans. ”
i say this in a friendly spirit: piffle.
and, professionalism and intellectual know-it-allism)
consider an example that you cited: google “cocaine” and  “local anesthetics” and you’ll quickly find an historical  timeline leading from the intriguing but not very useful effects, in the  medicinal sense, of coca leaf, to cocaine itself 150 years ago, which is an  excellent local anesthetic (it was how local anesthesia was discovered) but has  other effects that are undesirable, to the first synthetic analogue, procaine  (novocaine, ca. 1910), which lacked those undesirable effects, to lidocaine  (ca. 1940), the first really good synthetic la (it has a more rapid onset than  procaine, gives a more intense nerve block, and lasts longer), to procainamide,  bupivicaine, prilocaine, mepivicaine, ropivicaine, and other synthetic  derivatives, each of which has useful distinguishing properties.
although proven drug-herb interactions are far rarer than you are probably taught, they do exist, so this creates a potential safety issue.
we only use an  antibiotic or pesticide for a few decades before seeing major resistance,  whereas plants seem to get by for millennia.
since, excluding diseases caused by known deficiencies and pathogens, asians are not known for being physically feeble and debilitated, i assume that you were implying ginger could have somehow mysteriously affected indians’ mental faculties.
acetyl salicylic acid (aspirin) is more pharmacologically  useful and much better tolerated.
teaching the “anatomy of acupuncture” in formal anatomy classes thatevery medical student has to take and pass?
think of hrt (hormone replacement therapy).
change culture by evolution not revolution and georgetown’s rationale for integrating such practices so deeply into the curriculum strikes me as disingenuous: haramati realizes that some mainstream medical practitioners remain skeptical of cam due to the perception that such therapies lack the rigorous scientific testing that traditional therapies undergo.
# david j kroll on 20 mar 2008 at 5:33 pm a colleague suggested that i come by to this discussion because i have  spent much of my 15 yrs of independent research on natural products and herbal  medicine.
no blocks  formation of superoxide by hemes.
it is true for digitalis.
you admit that you have little knowledge of botany or the irrelevant science of entomology; i hope you do not display open contempt for non-md patients if their greater knowledge of botany causes them to disagree with some opinion you hold dear.
georgetown does, however, give one reason that’s semi-reasonable: “rather than to say ‘there’s no data here, why teach it?’
a dull knife is  also a lot less useful as a tool.
sorry for the interruption.
(apparently for the better, if an inability to rape and pillage the rest of the world is the only “symptom.”)
ah, but they will be.
when the publisher updates the web site (sram.org) some  articles will be there.
but where scientific studies supported herbs, he was  willing to acknowledge the facts.
as for the herbalist claims that herb components work together to provide  some increased benefit (additive, or synergistic), the opposite can also be  true- the herb can contain poisons that make the desired active-ingredient  irrelevant until purified.
# kimball atwood on 21 mar 2008 at 12:10 pm “i am simply fascinated by the promise of herbal mixtures and their  components as a source of novel chemistries that have allowed us to find new  mechanisms of action to treat diseases.”
the same is true of purified pharmaceutically active agents.
other nausea is exacerbated by placebos.
the only way to determine if there actually are side effects of using ginger or the pharmacologically active compounds in ginger is to test them.
berberine-containing plants,  which also have a compound that disables the bacterial mdr pump, making the  berberine many times more effective.
in other words, the potent pill with its delicate balance  of benefits and toxicities can only be prescribed by an md, and therefore  received only by someone who can shell out $100 or so for the office visit  – plus maybe more money for office visits for more prescriptions to deal  with the side effects.
until the compounds in ginger have been tested whether they are teratogens at what doses remains unknown.
but the  more potent product is not always better.
(imho, the real problem with hoodia products is that most of them are fake.)
# science-based medicine »
regarding ginger and morning sickness, there is a bit of evidence favoring it but the studies are small and the effect modest, if it really exists.
then perhaps big pharma would do us the favor of filling in a few gaps in their armamentarium by manufacturing: - a single compound derived from hawthorn to alleviate symptoms of heart failure while reducing, rather than increasing, the risk of arrhythmias - a single hepatoprotective compound derived from milk thistle (mds who do not wish to risk malpractice suits already treat amanita poisoning with silymarin, which is a standardized mixture of four active molecules – you can find reports on pubmed) - a single compound derived from horse chestnut to treat chronic venous insufficiency - a single compound derived from gotu kola to speed wound healing and treat microangiopathy, and - a single compound derived from elderberry to fight flu.
i implied that we were then on an asceding curve of sectarian med entry into medical schools.
maybe they should get that stuff off the  market “until it’s tested.”
i suspect  that even biofeedback and purely neurogenic methods will still increase adverse  effects via decreasing no levels.
commercial products are made with  specific techniques to remove the toxic compounds” btw, apteryx also  noted “commercial products should be standardized to 50 mg of aescin and  free from aesculin, a hydroxycoumarin.”
there’s that word “should” which does not guarantee they “are.”
however, if your med school told you anything about botanicals, it should have told you that it is very common for plants to contain whole suites of structurally similar secondary metabolites, which may serve many purposes other than “poisons” – of course, what is a “poison” to a bacterium may be beneficial for us!
some studies actually  show reduced basal metabolic rate during the first trimester over the  non-pregnant state.
in other words, they will become advocates for non-science-based medicine–exactly what medicinedoesn’t need.
i  think any botanist or entomologist would agree that there has to be some  selective advantage to doing so.
this is probably because most doctors committed to ebm just aren’t that interested in cam because there’s not much good evidence for the vast majority of modalities that fall under its label and because so many cam modalities are associated with spiritual/religious concepts underlying them that have no business in science.
anyway, my feed reader is set on rss 2.0 and i’ve got to go to the site to see stuff published this month.
that is perhaps their best argument, but my retort would be that it’s not necessary to integrate various non-herbal aspects of cam into the curriculum to accomplish this.
for the second week in a row i find myself throwing out the original post that i had planned on doing in favor of a different topic.
please don’t confuse what’s wrong with “bigpharm”—shameless advertising, cois involved in sponsoring trials, concealing of unflattering information, which we bloggers don’t like any better than you—with what’s right with it: pharmaceutical r&d and manufacturing, ie, the science and technology.
b, no increase in birth defects in any of several human trials; and c, the fact that in parts of india pregnant women make a point of eating a lot of ginger, and they reproduce successfully enough to have one hell of a population problem.
it suggests “intelligent design”  or some similar, comforting but childish notion that nature is our mary poppins: “what’s nice about plant or herbal medicines is that  because they are derived from the whole plant they are considerably less  toxic to the body.