there is an old chinese saying, "don't wait until you're thirsty to dig a  well."
this all depends on such factors as the severity of  the complaint, how long-standing it has been, and the extent to which the  patient’s daily activities aggravate the condition.
she  will formulate a treatment plan including which acupuncture points to use, and  whether or not to prescribe herbal medicine for you.
cupping: glass cups are used to create a vaccum on the  skin to increase warmth and circulation.
if the problem is chronic, it generally requires more  treatments.
it is also common to use electrical stimulation - by hooking up a small  metal rod to an e-stim machine, we can deliver a gentle, comfortable current to  the child’s skin, thus activating the acupuncture points.
consider, though, that chinese herbal  medicine and acupuncture combine very well, and used together may speed the  resolving of your condition.
the acupuncturist will insert the needles, and then make  sure you are comfortable.
in chinese medicine, the appearance of the tongue tells many things about the patient’s overall health.
small doses of chinese herbal medicine are also very effective in treating pediatric conditions.
these needles are stiff, hollow, and thick for forcing fluid into the patient’s flesh.
because every patient is different, every case is different.
the acupuncturist will insert the needles, and then make sure you are comfortable.
however, if it is an acute problem, it may be resolved in as little  as three visits or less!
to begin your visit, the acupuncturist will do a comprehensive intake and exam, which will consist of asking numerous questions about your primary complaint as well as more general health issues, and performing any relevant physical exams.
most people find the  experience to be quite relaxing and some may even fall asleep!
the acupuncturist will use all the information she has gathered to determine your diagnosis according to traditional chinese medical theory.
can my child be  treated?
gua sha: a gentle scraping of the skin surface using a  soft-edged gua sha tool to increase circulation.
it is  from this practice that modern day pharmacology has emerged.
as well as being a licensed acupuncturist, ms. hawken is a certified chinese
this is done  in order to “reach the qi” (pronounced ‘chee’) -
* she will then remove the needles, and your treatment will be over.
can i have an herbal consultation without receiving acupuncture?
this emphasizes the conviction that staying healthy is much more  valuable than having to recover from an illness.
can my child be treated?
back to top how many treatments will i need?
however, if it is an acute problem, it may be resolved in as little as three visits or less!
preventative medicine is truly at the heart of chinese medical theory.
do you re-use needles?
far-infrared heat therapy: administered using a heat lamp, it increases the speed of tissue healing, and is very soothing.
the practitioner will then ask to see your tongue.
feels like a gentle tapping at the needle site.
plants and other natural substances have been used for medicinal purposes for thousands of years.
at some point during your treatment your acupuncturist may choose to employ one of many additional modalities such as: moxibustion: the herb mugwort (artemesia vulgaris, or ‘moxa’) is rolled into cones or cylinders and burned near the skin as a warming therapy, to increase the speed of tissue healing, and to add energy to the body.
modern acupuncture needles  are fine and flexible, about as big around as a hair or a piece of thread.
in general, most patients feel some sort of changeafter the first visit (either immediately, or after a few hours).
if your oriental medical practitioner feels that herbs would benefit your condition, she will create a personalized formula for you using either dried granulated herbs that are made into a tea, raw herbs, or a pre-made pill or tincture formula.
because the diagnostic process of chinese medicine relies on reading the  state of balance of the patient (through methods such as pulse diagnosis and  tongue reading), it is not necessary for you, as the patient, to report  anything "wrong".
when many people think of needles, their first thought is of the hypodermic needles used for medical injections.
before your first visit, you will be asked to fill out an extensive health  history questionnaire that will help guide the practitioner to her diagnosis.
what happens during a  treatment?
generally the patient is treated while lying down on a massage table, on some occasions the patient may be seated.
the practitioner  will then ask to see your tongue.
herbalist, and would be happy to treat you exclusively with chinese herbal  medicine if that is what you prefer.
at some point during your treatment your acupuncturist may choose to  employ one of many additional modalities such as: moxibustion: the herb mugwort (artemesia  vulgaris, or ‘moxa’) is rolled into cones or cylinders and burned  near the skin as a warming therapy, to increase the speed of tissue healing,  and to add energy to the body.
most health problems take  more than one treatment to resolve, so expect to have four  treatments before a reassessment.
how many treatments will i need?
in fact, in ancient china, the  acupuncturist was only paid as long as his patient was well!
this means that a person's state of health is always  changing, subtly moving in one direction oranother.
back to top what happens during a treatment?
online appointment scheduling for health & wellness 1.
your first visit will last about one and one  half hours, and 45 minutes to an hour for subsequent visits.
when this happens, it  is normal for the patient to feel one or more of the following sensations: a spreading sensation, heaviness at the needle site, warmth, tingling, a sense  of movement within the body, or an electric feeling.
before your first visit, you will be asked to fill out an extensive health history questionnaire that will help guide the practitioner to her diagnosis.
in chinese medicine, the appearance of the  tongue tells many things about the patient’s overall health.
when this happens, it is normal for the patient to feel one or more of the following sensations: a spreading sensation, heaviness at the needle site, warmth, tingling, a sense of movement within the body, or an electric feeling.
yes, chinese medicine can be very beneficial for a host of childhood problems, including but not limited to colds, fevers, colic, acute and chronic ear infections, diarrhea, constipation, enuresis (bedwetting), and attention deficit disorder (add).
you should prepare for your treatment  by eating a light meal beforehand, drinking plenty of fresh water, and wearing  loose, comfortable clothing that is easily pulled up over your elbows and  knees.
because the diagnostic process of chinese medicine relies on reading the state of balance of the patient (through methods such as pulse diagnosis and tongue reading), it is not necessary for you, as the patient, to report anything "wrong".
when many people think of needles, their first thought  is of the hypodermic needles used for medical injections.
* she will then remove the needles, and your  treatment will be over.
chinese medicine is focused  on bringing the body, mind and spirit back into the center of this balance.
back to top how are herbs used in chinese medicine?
once this is done, your  actual treatment willbegin.
in chinese  herbology, herbs are used in specific,individualized formulations containing  anywhere from two to twenty different herbs that work together synergistically  (unlike western herbology which commonly uses one herb alone).
most people find the experience to be quite relaxing and some may even fall asleep!
this is done in order to “reach the qi” (pronounced ‘chee’) - meaning to access the energy of the body with the needle.
once this is done, your actual treatment willbegin.
herbs are powerful medicinals which offer extraordinary results - when  prescribed by a trained medical professional.
can i benefit from treatment even if there is nothing wrong?
if you are taking prescription medication, be sure to bring a list of the medications you are taking.
most health problems take more than one treatment to resolve, so expect to have four treatments before a reassessment.
chinese medicine is focused on bringing the body, mind and spirit back into the center of this balance.
preventative medicine is truly  at the heart of chinese medical theory.
small doses of  chinese herbal medicine are also very effective in treating pediatric  conditions.
can i have an herbal consultation  without receiving acupuncture?
back to top home • about • f.a.q.
modern acupuncture needles are fine and flexible, about as big around as a hair or a piece of thread.
when treated with chinese medicine, children’s health issues tend to resolve even more quickly than adults’, due to children’s relatively “pure” natures.
while we do not  usually use needles on small children, chinese pediatric massage on acupuncture  points is a very effective method of treatment.
once the needle is in place, the acupuncturist may stimulate the needle by turning or otherwise moving it.
it is a wonderful idea, and a traditional one, to receive acupuncture treatment four times a year, at the change of seasons, to help the body cope with the stresses that the changing weather brings - even if the patient is feeling fine.
when the needle is inserted into the skin, it is common for the patient to feel little, if any, sensation.
your first visit will last about one and one half hours, and 45 minutes to an hour for subsequent visits.
yes, chinese medicine can be very beneficial  for a host of childhood problems, including but not limited to colds, fevers,  colic, acute and chronic ear infections, diarrhea, constipation, enuresis  (bedwetting), and attention deficit disorder (add).
electrical stimulation (e-stim): a gentle and safe  electrical current is run through the needles.
all rights  reserved.
back to top copyright © 2011 hawken acupuncture.
she will then feel the pulses on both your wrists.
plants and other natural  substances have been used for medicinal purposes for thousands of years.
in fact, in ancient china, the acupuncturist was only paid as long as his patient was well!
while we do not usually use needles on small children, chinese pediatric massage on acupuncture points is a very effective method of treatment.
they are sterile, single-use stainless steel needles, and they are disposed of  immediately after your treatment.
along the course of  treatment, you should see an overall improvement in your health as your main  complaint improves.
these needles are  stiff, hollow, and thick for forcing fluid into the patient’s flesh.
meaning to access the energy of the body with the needle.
to begin your visit, the acupuncturist will do a comprehensive intake and exam,  which will consist of asking numerous questions about your primary complaint as  well as more general health issues, and performing any relevant physical exams.
in chinese herbology, herbs are used in specific,individualized formulations containing anywhere from two to twenty different herbs that work together synergistically (unlike western herbology which commonly uses one herb alone).
when used properly, there are little to no side-effects.
as well as being a licensed acupuncturist, ms. hawken is a certified chinese herbalist, and would be happy to treat you exclusively with chinese herbal medicine if that is what you prefer.
the acupuncturist will use all the information she has gathered to  determine your diagnosis according to traditional chinese medical theory.
it is a wonderful idea, and a traditional one, to receive acupuncture  treatment four times a year, at the change of seasons, to help the body cope  with the stresses that the changing weather brings - even if the patient is  feeling fine.
over twenty-six subtle variations in the quality of the pulse can be felt at six different positions on each wrist.
it is also common to use electrical stimulation - by hooking up a small metal rod to an e-stim machine, we can deliver a gentle, comfortable current to the child’s skin, thus activating the acupuncture points.
it is from this practice that modern day pharmacology has emerged.
when used properly, there are  little to no side-effects.
in general, most patients feel some sort  of changeafter the first  visit (either immediately, or after a few hours).
• treated  conditions • testimonials • links • contact • terms •  sitemap copyright © 2011 hawken acupuncture.
traditional chinese medical theory states that a person is constantly in a  state of dynamic balance.
consider, though, that chinese herbal medicine and acupuncture combine very well, and used together may speed the resolving of your condition.
if the problem is chronic, it generally requires more treatments.
this means that a person's state of health is always changing, subtly moving in one direction oranother.
you should prepare for your treatment by eating a light meal beforehand, drinking plenty of fresh water, and wearing loose, comfortable clothing that is easily pulled up over your elbows and knees.
this all depends on such factors as the severity of the complaint, how long-standing it has been, and the extent to which the patient’s daily activities aggravate the condition.
they are sterile, single-use stainless steel needles, and they are disposed of immediately after your treatment.
happily, acupuncture needles are nothing like this!
traditional chinese medical theory states that a person is constantly in a state of dynamic balance.
when treated with chinese medicine, children’s health issues  tend to resolve even more quickly than adults’, due to children’s  relatively “pure” natures.
chinese style massage, or application of herbal  liniments.
no, modern acupuncture needles are not re-used.
because every patient  is different, every case is different.
she will allow you to relax and rest, retaining the  needles for about 15 minutes.
once the needle is in place, the acupuncturist  may stimulate the needle by turning or otherwise moving it.
electrical stimulation (e-stim): a gentle and safe electrical current is run through the needles.
can i benefit from treatment even if  there is nothing wrong?
if your oriental medical practitioner feels that herbs would benefit your  condition, she will create a personalized formula for you using either dried  granulated herbs that are made into a tea, raw herbs, or a pre-made pill or  tincture formula.
she will allow you to relax and rest, retaining the needles for about 15 minutes.
far-infrared heat therapy: administered using a heat lamp,  it increases the speed of tissue healing, and is very soothing.
feels like a gentle tapping at  the needle site.
gua sha: a gentle scraping of the skin surface using a soft-edged gua sha tool to increase circulation.
over twenty-six subtle variations in  the quality of the pulse can be felt at six different positions on each wrist.
she will  then feel the pulses on both your wrists.
what happens during a treatment?
she will formulate a treatment plan including which acupuncture points to use, and whether or not to prescribe herbal medicine for you.
generally the  patient is treated while lying down on a massage table, on some occasions the  patient may be seated.
chinese style massage, or application of herbal liniments.
often patients are surprised to find that many of their disparate health concerns are interrelated according to chinese medical theory.
herbs are powerful medicinals which offer extraordinary results - when prescribed by a trained medical professional.
along the course of treatment, you should see an overall improvement in your health as your main complaint improves.
when the needle is inserted into the skin, it is common for the patient to  feel little, if any, sensation.
if you are taking prescription medication, be sure to bring a list of  the medications you are taking.
often patients are surprised to find that many of their disparate health  concerns are interrelated according to chinese medical theory.
cupping: glass cups are used to create a vaccum on the skin to increase warmth and circulation.
this emphasizes the conviction that staying healthy is much more valuable than having to recover from an illness.
there is an old chinese saying, "don't wait until you're thirsty to dig a well."