it remains to be seen whether or not this new and ever-expanding jargon is a worthwhile invention.
per capita ratios of modern versus traditional practitioners to patients underscores this point.
in a recent personal correspondence, one medical anthropologist told me that the notion that science has developed a more objective and accurate image and understanding of the universe than any other system of knowing is a "discredited post-enlightenment myth."
they certainly show up time and again in their literature.
to her great credit, dr. mccorkle is perhaps the only contributor to schoen and wynn's "alt-vet-med" opus to employ a fully rational definition of "holistic" and/or "holism."
what about the quechua shepherdess who wants to "get out of shepherding altogether" and learn computer programming?
while it's possible that "traditional healers" may occasionally, in their efforts to eliminate "heat" or "cold," or foil demons or "evil winds," may stumble upon therapeutic interventions that actually help, the process is haphazard at best.
its eradication will ultimately save millions of third world lives, and it was accomplished entirely by means of plain old "conventional western" science and medicine.
as others have observed, this bizarre situation undoubtedly stems in large part from the fact that, in view of the stunning successes of science and technology in the decades following wwii, the subjective musing and "theories" (conjectures) of sociologists, cultural anthropologists, literary critics, and other scholars in the "arts and humanities" seemed ever more arcane and irrelevant.
in other words, it's a means  of "taking the universe apart to see how it works."
synergism occasionally occurs, but for  every case where a desirable action is enhanced, there are several where  undesirable actions are produced.
were they eventually able to standardize the product and determine a relatively safe and effective dose?
how people name and classify  diseases, treatments and other health matters.
"ethnomedicine" gave us opium - a mixture of at least 20 alkaloids, not codeine.
[.] my reason for rejecting ethnoscience is this: what from the perspective of western liberal givers looks like a tolerant, nonjudgmental, therapeutic "permission to be different" appears to some of us "others" as a condescending act of charity.
females are also regarded to be less vulnerable to illness than male  children, meaning that less elaborate measures are necessary to protect their  health.
eighty traditional physicians were specifically selected to control the plague.
that process, they assert, is "ethnoscience."
could this possibly be a reference to the "androcentric, ethnocentric, oppressive, imperialist, 'western,' conventional, scientific establishment" boogeyman that cultural constructivists and post-modernists love to hate?
usa classification: medical sciences, contributed by bruce n. ames july 17, 1990 revised: august 15, 1990 http://socrates.berkeley.edu/mutagen//ames.pnasiii.html [7] ames bn, profet m, gold ls.
marglin defends those who resisted the modern vaccine in the name of the goddess as fighting for a form of life that does not distinguish between natural and supernatural forces.
or homeopathic "miasms"?.
ethnopathophysiology: how people understand the interrelationship,  functions, and malfunctions of different organs and systems (e.g., circulatory,  nervous), often garnered from practical necropsy at slaughter or ritual  sacrifice.
but what they do have in common is that each, in its own way, advocates nothing less than the end of science as we know it.
therefore they collected and administered only the sap, instead of following the farmer's practice of feeding the whole fruit.
it passed "peer  review" by five members ofsocial text's editorial board, and was  published as a serious piece of scholarship.
though somewhat obscured by discussion of the ethnoveterinary medical benefits sure to be reaped by "stockraisers" worldwide, dr. mccorkle's cultural anthropology training and cultural constructivist/cultural relativist ideology are discernable throughout this work.
the more important issue is whether or not traditional and folk medical "models for delivery" have worked better than science-based ones.
they pass around experiences.
rather than addressing the inherent deficiencies in their belief systems, some cultural and medical anthropologists have, instead, focused their energies on discrediting legitimate science under the rubric of cultural relativism.
on the basis of prior experiments and review of the pharmacologic literature, scientists knew the key parasitacidal constituent resided mainly in the fruit sap.
the larger lesson here is the need to devise new, innovative research designs rather than mindlessly cleaving to conventional methodologic dogma.
dr. mccorkle and her colleagues seem to employ the terms "emic" and "etic" as synonyms for "insider" and "outsider" influences, respectively, but how they arrived at these "alternative" definitions is anybody's guess.
dr. mccorkle seems convinced that, for whatever reason, "conventional western" science is incapable of employing an "interdisciplinary" approach to medical and herd health issues in the third world.
per capita ratios underscore what point?
the description seems to fit them pretty well.
not in the realm of ethnoveterinary medicine.
are there really so many indonesian firms and institutions conducting phytopharmacological investigation that this story couldn't be tracked down?
sooner or later, the intended beneficiaries of "ethnoveterinary medicine" and "ethnoscience" are going to figure out that these "disciplines," unlike their bona fide scientific alternatives, are not only examples of the "western 'etic'" proponents so adamantly disparage, they're based on the intellectually bankrupt anti-science dogma of cultural constructivism and post-modernism.
as we'll see, in the context of erd&e,  the term "research" refers not to the critical scientific  investigation of traditional or folk medical practices, but to their  "judgment-free" investigation and "validation" in  accordance with the tenets of cultural anthropology.
interestingly, the historiography of agricultural inventions and recommendations at international agricultural research centers reveals that many of these derive directly from producer knowledge and practice.
it would be unfair and incorrect for me to suggest that cultural anthropology and ethnomedicine played no part in the struggle to eliminate smallpox.
(and, by the way, they vividly illustrate the fact that the "value-free, judgment-free" ethic of cultural relativism doesnot extend to western european culture.)
the technique has been wildly successful, as the development of high technology in the west attests.
it gave the world invaluable drugs such as aspirin, codeine, curare, and quinine [.]well, not exactly.
rather, each has much to learn from the other.
do all diagnoses reflect an equally valid understanding of a disease process?
again, what about the ways people mis-understand disease transmission and cause?
the proposed scope of erd&e far exceeds the boundaries of mere examination and analysis.
veterinarians and  stockraisers in the west have had more than a few problems in learning how to  properly employ (or not employ) various newly introduced drugs and technologies  over the last 60 years.
the author is  clearly committed to the "ethnoscientific tenet" that any local  belief, no matter how irrational or steeped in the supernatural, is really a  "scientific concept."
while other contributing authors have chosen, for instance, to ignore the fact  that "holistic" traditional chinese medicine is oblivious to the  existence of the nervous, the endocrine, and circulatory systems, or the fact  that "holistic" homeopathy ignores both the "germ theory of  disease" and modern physics, dr. mccorkle's definition deals only with  "brass-tacks factual" considerations.
like it or not,  all things being equal, dressings made of cow feces simply don't work as well  on an open wound as antibiotics and sterile dressings do.
if one understands that seizures are due to paroxysms of neuronal discharge, it leads one to look for ways to stabilize neuronal physiology.
weil also argues that the lesser concentration of an active  constituent present in plant tissue renders such a drug safer to use.
the folk illnesses urana (fright) and larpa explain child deaths in culturally acceptable ways, and the types of funerals given to children of different ages indicate that the death of young children is not considered unusual.
scientific and which others?
while it's true that science often employs elaborate and highly specialized  jargon, it does so in the interest of precision.
ethnographic data on child illness, gender, and developmental concepts help to explain why children of different genders and ages may be treated differently in the rural andes.
in any case, i'm certain that advocates of scientific biomedicine share my  conviction that various "traditional medical systems" merit rigorous  but open-minded scientific evaluation.
this epistemic charity dehumanizes us by denying us the capacity for a reasoned modification of our beliefs in the light of better evidence made available by the methods of modern science.
what of the massai tribesmen or tribeswomen who decide they want to own a car, or live in town, or become an airline pilot, or be something other than a subsistence-level pastoralist?
unfortunately, she doesn't tell us what the "ethnomedically  correct" response might be when a skeptical "western" medical  practitioner's "ethnomedical practitioner-colleague" suggests  treating a lacerated patient with a cow-feces dressing.
on the other hand, we would almost certainly have far more serious problems to contend with such as nationwide famine and almost universal poverty, since industrial agriculture would be impossible.
it appeared in a april 1996 as part of a special double-issue devoted to rebutting the charge that cultural studies critiques of science tend to be riddled with incompetence.
local observation and local notions of  metaphysical etiology are entirely separate issues, but the distinction is one  that dr. mccorkle seems to either overlook or not to understand.
the fact is that competent scientists, by their training, do their best not to overlook any pertinent data.
similar magnitudes can be assumed to hold for the livestock  sector in most of the third world.
[off-set box 41-16] medicoreligious beliefs and practices: quechua indians' ethnoetiology of contagious keratoconjuctivitis in sheep is expressed partly in sixteenth-century iberian notions of hot and cold diseases and partly in incaic concepts of evil winds.
while she  concedes in passing that specific "western" pharmaceutical agents may  be somewhat more effective than herbs or crude plant extracts, she goes out of  her way to suggest that "western science-based medicine" has  repeatedly failed to perform as well as its "ethnomedical"  counterpart in dealing with such problems.
the fact is, agricultural science has evolved and significant recommendations have been made for growers and "stockraisers" based on dispassionate scientific evaluation of the data.
if dr. mccorkle could travel back to the 1940s, would she be lobbying  against the introduction in the west of antibiotics or petrochemical  fertilizers and advocating that farmers, veterinarians and physicians cling to  the "tried and true old ways"?
the average veterinarian might read this and assume that dr. mccorkle is surely going to suggest the obvious: that carefully designed scientific studies and field work are called for.
the first couple of times i read this passage, i assumed that the author merely meant that the idiom sometimes is unscientific or supernatural.
" ethnodiagnostic knowledge and technique: based on all the above factors,  plus clinical observation of signs and syndromes, how people decide what the  given health care problem is and thus how to treat or control it.
for  instance, pre-scientific experience with selective breeding of domestic animals  played a major part in the development of modern genetics.
the western  idea is a "notion" while the amerindian idea is a  "concept."
[.] all around the globe, whether  for human or livestock ailments, urine is commonly used as a disinfectant for  cuts and abrasions, and mud or animal feces as a dressing for wounds and  bruises.
it's understanding why the condition exists and knowing what to do about it  that really counts.
for local knowledge to be broadly and responsibly put to use, some means of discriminating between effective and ineffective methods is required.
they claim that  apart from their active principle, plants may contain other substances that  enhance their therapeutic action by some sort of a synergistic process.
female children are valued less because of their future social and economic potential.
in each of these five instances, however, she is quick to point out allegedly similar failures in "conventional" veterinary medicine - lest we conclude that "ethnoveterinary medicine" and "conventional veterinary medicine" are not equally "valid" and effective healthcare delivery systems.
the facts are  as follows: "ethnomedicine" gave us not aspirin, which is  acetylsalicylic acid, but the bitter glycoside salicin in the form of willow  bark.
thus provincialized, science is deemed acceptable for certain limited and purely instrumental purposes, with no claims to truth, worldviews, and social values.
the final section of dr. mccorkle's chapter bears the heading: "back to the future."
ds in various "liberal arts" and "social studies" disciplines, very few of them seem to be scientists.
unfortunately, she doesn't tell us what the "ethnomedically correct" response might be when a skeptical "western" medical practitioner's "ethnomedical practitioner-colleague" suggests treating a lacerated patient with a cow-feces dressing.
for example, china has only one modern medical doctor for every 10,000 patients, but the tradition of traditional practitioners is 1:100 (bodecker 1994a); for ghana and swaziland, these figures are respectively 1:20,000 versus 1:200 and 1:10,000 versus 1:100 (zhang, 1994).
in other words, she is suggesting that "conventional western" scientists are destined to always overlook a significant portion of the pertinent data.
the problem in accurately evaluating packages of  ethnoveterinary (or conventional) idm [integrated disease-management] is one of  western scientific reductionism.
the folk illnesses urana (fright) and larpa explain child deaths  in culturally acceptable ways, and the types of funerals given to children of  different ages indicate that the death of young children is not considered  unusual.
and notwithstanding the  "veterinary" in "ethnoveterinary medicine," few if any  veterinarians seem to be active participants in the erd&e  "movement."
while dr. mccorkle and erd&e-advocate colleagues are clearly very keen  on "studying" traditional veterinary practices and veterinary folk  medicine, only once in the course of her chapter does she mention, in passing,  the need to "discriminate" between effective and ineffective  therapies: pg. 734: for local knowledge to be broadly and responsibly put to  use, some means of discriminating between effective and ineffective methods is  required.
"ethnobotanists" gave us quinine in the form of cinchona bark and bark extract.
so, while there's no doubt that the "trial and error" method has resulted in some useful advances, such a method is terribly inefficient.
734: ethnomedicine itself provides an excellent example of such processes [the integration of "conventional" science and "ethno" science].
(anonymous, 1994).it's not clear what dr. mccorkle thinks this anecdote illustrates.
it means that the  scientific method is invalid.
paying  attention to and investigating the observations of non-scientists has,  historically, played a major part in the development of modern science and  technology.
other "ways of knowing" and "means of investigating the universe" have, without exception, repeatedly proven to be horribly inefficient and inconsistent in this regard.
i submit that they rarely if ever work as well as scientific biomedical interventions, at least on a "level playing field."
however, the "nonhegemonic" word is a bit disingenuous.
moreover, it's quite clear that the erd&e movement has at least as much to do with the "extension" (promotion) of a philosophical, social, and even political agenda as it does with helping "stockraisers" make a living.
differences were especially significant in the allocation of biomedical treatments, the most costly in terms of parental time, effort, and money.
if that's the case, why do we need an "outside" agency (based on a western invention such as erd&e) to teach local people what they, literally, already know?
it seems pretty obvious that dr. mccorkle's attempt to turn folk medicine into science merely by defining it as such (and, of course, by declaring that legitimate science is not only an arbitrary "western social construct," but merely "another way of knowing") is a clear reflection of her background in cultural anthropology.
of course, science is obliged to ignore "mechanisms" for which there isn't a shred of objective evidence.
of course, not understanding science and believing in magic are helpful if one hopes to hold such a view.
on page 736, dr.  mccorkle tells us: finally, investments in the study and application of useful local  knowledge, practice and social organization can produce another important  benefit: renewed respect for local cultures and technologic knowledge.
chemists discovered aspirin in  1899, learning to synthesize it from coal tar.
wouldn't that be a far more egalitarian and far less neo-imperialist approach?
ethnoetiologic and ethnoepidemiologic theories: the causes  (supernatural as well as natural) that people assign to different diseases and  their understandings about disease transmission (including zoonoses).
the piece was  titled "transgressing the boundaries: toward a transformative hermeneutics  of quantum gravity," and purported to be a scholarly article about the  "postmodern" philosophical and political implications of 20th century  physics theories.[3] however, as sokal, himself, revealed in a simultaneously  published issue of the journallingua franca,[4] the essay was nothing  more than a hodge-podge of deliberate solecisms, scientific howlers, non  sequiturs and post-modernist gobbledygook cobbled together so as to look good  and flatter the ideological preconceptions of the editors.
while it's true that science often employs elaborate and highly specialized jargon, it does so in the interest of precision.
the holistic, interdisciplinary study of local knowledge and its associated skills, practices, beliefs, practitioners, and the social structures pertaining to the healthcare and healthful husbandry of food-, work-, and other income-producing animals, always with an eye to practical development applications within livestock production and livelihood systems and with the ultimate goal of increasing human well-being via increased benefits from stock raising.
do they really need stanford graduate anthropologists to "redefine them" as "ethnoveterinarians," "ethnophysicians," or "ethnoscientists," while, at the same time, telling them they "don't really want or need 'western' medicine"?
this gift has many names, many givers, and many presumed beneficiaries.
that's fine with me, and i sincerely hope they are able to do so.
should she be "shielded" from such possibilities by "western ivy-league anthropologists" who have decided the subsistence-farming future of her people might be threatened if some individuals learn they can opt for a high-tech future?
dietary pesticides (99.99% all natural), in proc.
the more important issue is whether or not traditional and folk  medical "models for delivery" have worked better than science-based  ones.
much of dr. mccorkle's chapter deals with the alleged triumphs of "ethnoveterinary medicine" over parasitism in livestock in the third world.
what about the influences ofprana?.
(in fact, they are still struggling with such issues as  how best to employ - or not employ - antibiotics in livestock husbandry.)
all systems may 'work'; in practice, all have successes and failures, with some systems scoring much higher in particular areas of medicine, depending on the social, cultural, and economic context in which they are applied, as well as on their biomedical bases.
well, fine: i'm sure people do tend to "misuse and abuse" drugs they're not familiar with, but that has always been a problem whenever and wherever new drugs have been introduced - including in the west.
on page 735, dr. mccorkle cites this anonymous anecdote as an example of a "costly" and "embarrassing error" which might have been prevented had the "scientists" involved heeded the advice of local stockraisers (or, presumably, other types of "ethnoscientists").
on the other hand, while they might be obliged to reject local as well as  "western" notions of supernatural or metaphysical etiology, i don't  think any good scientist is likely to dismiss out-of-hand the observations that  have led folk medicine practitioners to do what they do.
in  "ethnoveterinary science," is it ever possible to mis-understand  pathophysiology?
believe it or not, under the tenets of ethnomedicine, "possession by  demons" or "an excess of abdominal foam" are both perfectly  acceptable "ethnoscientific" diagnoses for what ethno-scientifically  unsavvy "western" healthcare professionals might identify as a case  of idiopathic epilepsy.
the fact that what used to be merely the study of "veterinary folk  medicine" has been transmogrified into the much more impressive-sounding  "ethnoveterinary research, development and extension" speaks volumes  about the proliferation of semantics and taxonomies in this field.
the quechua "ethnodiagnosis" for infectious keratoconjunctivitis  is perhaps correct, if one defines correct as identifying that there is a  problem in the eye of the sheep.
salicin works reasonably well as an antipyretic, but is extremely rough  on the gi system - much more so than aspirin.
while neither bona fide scientists nor cultural anthropologists can "command the clock to stop" for anyone, i'm all in favor of doing whatever can be done, within reason, to help pastoral, hunter-gatherer and similarly low-tech cultures maintain their chosen lifestyles into the 21st century.
understandably the gift givers are dismayed to have their generosity interpreted as charity, their ethnosciences seen as antiscience, and their invitation to be different read as intellectual apartheid.
the concept of "cultural relativism" was introduced into cultural anthropology several decades ago as a means of studying various non-western cultures without bias.
this is precisely what the post-modernists and cultural relativists have done.
the antitheses of cultural constructivism and post-modernism are rational positivism (or realism) and modernism.
in such a fashion, regularly identifying that  a person had epilepsy, but attributing the cause to possession by the devil,  would most likely be a proper "ethnodiagnosis."
the "business of stockraisers is business."
http://www.hcrc.org/contrib/sampson/braid.html [12] nanda, m. the epistemic charity of the social constructivist critics of science and why the third world should refuse the offer.
and, in the meantime, how many millions of animals and people would have died from simple bacterial infections?
could this possibly be a  reference to the "androcentric, ethnocentric, oppressive, imperialist,  'western,' conventional, scientific establishment" boogeyman that cultural  constructivists and post-modernists love to hate?
so far as i'm aware, ethnoveterinary science advocates are not lobbying  western farmers and stockraisers to forgo modern science and technology in  favor of 19th and 18th century alternatives.
ironically, a century and a half ago in the west, new englanders routinely took to the sea in wooden ships to harpoon and render whales, as many generations had done before them.
1982, 10 [11] sampson w.
generally speaking, science, social philosophies and political agendas - no  matter how well intentioned -- have made exceedingly poor bedfellows.
it is, in my view, post-modern western neo-imperialism.
"modern 'western' science, yes, but modern universal science, no!" could well summarize the prevailing ethnoscience/postcolonial position.
when unfamiliar drugs and technologies have been introduced in the west,  education rather than abstinence has generally proven to be the most rewarding  approach.
for a highly revealing and absolutely hilarious insight into the façade of post-modernist and cultural constructivist jargon and puffery, i refer readers to the "sokal affair.
that's  a tough break for the little kids, and especially the little girls in peru, who  have to die as a result.
in short, stockraisers are mainly interested in whether a given intervention makes sense to them and works to their satisfaction (and then, of course, whether it is available, affordable, convenient, and so forth) - no matter what its source.
in any case, i'm certain that advocates of scientific biomedicine share my conviction that various "traditional medical systems" merit rigorous but open-minded scientific evaluation.
what the "ethnoscience advocates" apparently refuse to accept is that informal observation and trial-and-error findings do not, in and of themselves, constitute a "science" - least of all when they are mixed with a hodge-podge of local magical and religious beliefs.
and, since the disease isn't caused by infectious agents, neither  western veterinary practitioners nor third world "ethnoveterinarians"  will want to waste time or money on heretofore effective topical and cheap  antibiotics.
they say it is impolite to look a gift horse in the mouth.
(i realize that at least some cultural anthropologists have lamented and even tried to resist this "tide" within their fields.
moreover, it's quite clear that the  erd&e movement has at least as much to do with the "extension"  (promotion) of a philosophical, social, and even political agenda as it does  with helping "stockraisers" make a living.
in the  ethnoscientific worldview, there are no objective facts or realities, only  local "cultural constructs" of same.
what the  "ethnoscience advocates" apparently refuse to accept is that informal  observation and trial-and-error findings do not, in and of themselves,  constitute a "science" - least of all when they are mixed with a  hodge-podge of local magical and religious beliefs.
i hope these individuals will forgive me if they feel i'm painting with too broad a stroke here.)
"ethnobotanists" gave us quinine  in the form of cinchona bark and bark extract.
the author is clearly committed to the "ethnoscientific tenet" that any local belief, no matter how irrational or steeped in the supernatural, is really a "scientific concept."
i submit that they rarely if ever work as well as scientific biomedical  interventions, at least on a "level playing field."
likewise, chemical fertilizers may be more expensive than livestock manure, but they are vastly more effective on a per-unit-of-weight basis and much less likely to result in the transmission of salmonella, e. coli, and other pathogens to human or animal consumers.
females are also regarded to be less vulnerable to illness than male children, meaning that less elaborate measures are necessary to protect their health.
despite my serious misgivings regarding what seem to be dr. mccorkle's "strategic" social and political objectives, i am very much in favor of at least some of her "tactical" objectives with regard to pastoral and primitive agricultural societies.
a person who took powdered cinchona bark would also ingest the alkaloid quinidine, a cardiac depressant, and cinchotannic acid, which would induce constipation.
instead of imposing new  self-descriptions on third world practitioners, why don't dr. mccorkle and her  colleagues advocate that we simply re-define "western" pathologists  and anatomists as ethno-butchers, ethno-shamans, and ethno-witchdoctors?
if, as is apparently the case in some parts of sub-saharan africa, people believe that men can cure themselves of aids or hiv infection by having sex with a virgin, does that constitute an "understanding" of hiv epidemiology/etiology/ pathophysiology, or a "mis-understanding" of same?
if traditional systems had worked well in the west, there would have been no incentive or need to develop scientific biomedicine in the first place.
epilepsia 2000 apr;41(4):432-9 http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=retrieve&db=pubmed&list_uids=10756409&dopt=abstract [6]ames bn, profet m, gold ls, nature's chemicals and synthetic chemicals: comparative toxicology, in proc.
if that's the case, then doesn't dr. mccorkle's defining folk medicine as  "ethnoscience" mean that, in her view, science, religion and magic  are inextricably interwoven?
at least since the domestication of plants and animals some 12,000 to 15,000 years ago, farmers and stockraisers have been conducting empirical agricultural experiments and exchanging their findings (mccorkle, brandstetter, mcclure, 1988).ok.
the  key term here is "may."
we won't know which, if any, "ethnomedical alternatives" are safe, effective, environmentally friendly and economically sound until we scientifically investigate them one at a time.
the only person who was able to help was a young cambridge-trained doctor, wu lien-te, who used his scientific knowledge to direct the sanitary and public health measures required to prevent the plague from spreading further.
(if some  flesh-and-blood scientists in the field have dismissed such observation out of  hand, it says a lot about their failings as scientists and very little about  the shortcomings of science.)
quinine is only one of many  alkaloids in cinchona bark.
(and that's precisely why i suspect this message stems from the  "cultural anthropology community" rather than "scientific  community.")
the braid of the alternative medicine movement.
in reviewing dr. mccorkle's twenty-nine-page-long chapter, i will endeavor  to move from the specific to the general.
the traditional treatment consists merely of periodically feeding the sheep whole, immature papaya fruits.
might not the sap of the papaya or a crude extract be more stable and therefore more practical and economical for local stockraisers to use than the highly perishable whole plant?
cultural anthropology, and the subdiscipline of medical anthropology, ostensibly involve the dispassionate study of culture and medical systems.
they all died of it themselves.
in such instances, advocating the superior (more effective and productive) practice does not constitute hegemony.
perhaps most maasai people want to remain "simple pastoralists."
of course, we don't have to wonder whether or not things  really would have turned out that way.
i suspect that "over my dead body, you quack" would be construed as demonstration of "hegemonic, imperialist, oppressive, close-minded, and ethnophobic" disrespect toward a "fellow health professional."
they claim that apart from their active principle, plants may contain other substances that enhance their therapeutic action by some sort of a synergistic process.
this seems a classic case of assuming one's  conclusions in one's preamble.
is the administration of  "sap" or a crude plant extract really a manifestation of "modern  pharmacology"?
are there really so many indonesian firms and institutions conducting  phytopharmacological investigation that this story couldn't be tracked down?
quinine is only one of many alkaloids in cinchona bark.
also, it's inaccurate and disingenuous to characterize all "'first  world' drugs and agrochemicals" as "highly residual and  poisonous."
while reductionism is merely one among many tools employed by science, cultural constructivists and various other non-scientist critics of science claim that "western science" is embodied by and limited to reductionism.
[off-set box 41-16] medicoreligious beliefs and  practices: quechua indians' ethnoetiology of contagious keratoconjuctivitis in  sheep is expressed partly in sixteenth-century iberian notions of hot and cold  diseases and partly in incaic concepts of evil winds.
all we have to do is look at present day  "ethnomedicine-" and "ethnoscience-dependent" societies of  which dr. mccorkle speaks.
as the late carl sagan once said: "there is no place for magic in science."
(for a striking example from cancer research, see bodeker, 1994b.)
of course, in recent decades, smallpox has been almost entirely a "third world" problem.
[.] by defining the very nature of rationality and truth as internal to social practices, social constructivists do indeed give the natives their "permission" to be different - but, then, so did apartheid.
the piece was titled "transgressing the boundaries: toward a transformative hermeneutics of quantum gravity," and purported to be a scholarly article about the "postmodern" philosophical and political implications of 20th century physics theories.[3] however, as sokal, himself, revealed in a simultaneously published issue of the journallingua franca,[4] the essay was nothing more than a hodge-podge of deliberate solecisms, scientific howlers, non sequiturs and post-modernist gobbledygook cobbled together so as to look good and flatter the ideological preconceptions of the editors.
the problem is that, in the real world, such a diagnosis doesn't help - at least not when one is hoping to deliver effective health care.
fortunately, there is apparently no need to subject urine therapy and mud  or fecal dressings to randomized controlled trials: dr. mccorkle assures us  that these therapeutic interventions "can and do work."
in fact, most of us would be engaged in subsistence farming, absorbed from sun-up to sun-down, seven days a week, in backbreaking manual labor, and hoping desperately to avoid starvation and survive the next epidemic of vaccine-preventable human and livestock disease.
for example, china has only  one modern medical doctor for every 10,000 patients, but the tradition of  traditional practitioners is 1:100 (bodecker 1994a); for ghana and swaziland,  these figures are respectively 1:20,000 versus 1:200 and 1:10,000 versus 1:100  (zhang, 1994).
(please pay no attention to the jet aircraft roaring overhead, the electronic telecommunication devices all around you, or the fact you somehow managed not to die from smallpox or polio while growing up.
might they include things like the imaginary ebb and flow of qi?
they provide a context in which to interpret health care allocation data, and, in the absence of a population-based study, reinforce findings based on the limited study sample.
in "ethnoveterinary science," is it ever possible to mis-understand pathophysiology?
real science works on the "assumption of naturalism": i.e., that the universe makes sense, functions free of magical or incomprehensible influences from outside itself, and is at least potentially understandable.
if one hopes to systematically investigate illnesses and efficiently develop effective therapies, there simply is no substitute for an accurate, science-based understanding of anatomy, physiology, and the etiology of disease.
as one reads erd&e literature, it becomes increasingly clear that the real message has little to do with instituting effective medical or husbandry techniques and much to do with "validating" status quo social and cultural conventions and practices and promoting ethnophobic anti-western and anti-scientific sentiment in third world countries.
indeed, cultural anthropology and the sub-specialty of medical anthropology, have - to a large extent -- attempted to gain the cache (if not literally become) genuine sciences, not by actually living up to the standards of science or proceeding on scientific principles, but merely by defining themselves as sciences.
real science  works on the "assumption of naturalism": i.e., that the universe  makes sense, functions free of magical or incomprehensible influences from  outside itself, and is at least potentially understandable.
conversely, what most scientists would construe as  "local religious or metaphysical belief systems" and  "traditional or folk medicine" are consistently described as  "ethnoscience" and "ethnomedicine." pg.
i suspect the latter is the case, but it's not entirely  obvious.
on the basis of  prior experiments and review of the pharmacologic literature, scientists knew  the key parasitacidal constituent resided mainly in the fruit sap.
paying attention to and investigating the observations of non-scientists has, historically, played a major part in the development of modern science and technology.
who can say what treasures these resources might yield?
what if science-based medicine and animal husbandry fit this bill better than ethnomedicine and ethnoscience?
above all, they reject [the premise] that there exists a real-world (mind- and theory-independent) physical domain whose properties are the object of scientific knowledge and whose better understanding is the prime source of technological advance.
[for those non-ethno-anthropologists out there, iberian means spanish and incaic means "of the incas."]
in each  of these five instances, however, she is quick to point out allegedly similar  failures in "conventional" veterinary medicine - lest we conclude  that "ethnoveterinary medicine" and "conventional veterinary  medicine" are not equally "valid" and effective healthcare  delivery systems.
isn't rural china the seat of the world's oldest and most extensive branch of "ethnomedical science"?
732: finally, because people are usually more familiar with  indigenous medicines, they may be less likely to misuse or abuse these  preparations than with alien western drugs.
such research is not only costly, but reductionistic because traditional prescriptions are often intended to produce simultaneous or synergistic actions such as site-specific attack on the disease, enhanced immune response, increased cellular uptake, and repression of side effects.
third world ingrates.
a review of dr. constance mccorkle's chapter 41: "ethnoveterinary medicine" by robert imrie, dvm dr. constance mccorkle begins her chapter on "ethnoveterinary medicine" by telling us that ethnoveterinary research, development and extension (erd&e), has emerged as a "fertile field" that promises to benefit "rural and peri-urban stockraisers" not just in the third world, but everywhere, by virtue of the "generation (or regeneration)" of certain "animal health technologies" she and her colleagues define ethnoveterinary research, development and extension as: pg. 713:
a person who took powdered cinchona bark would  also ingest the alkaloid quinidine, a cardiac depressant, and cinchotannic  acid, which would induce constipation.
this "cultural anthropological viewpoint" seems incredibly -- and quite transparently - condescending and paternalistic.
cultural anthropology, sociology and literary criticism are among the primary vectors of cultural relativism and post-modernist anti-science in western academia.
that is, i'll first examine and  comment on specific statements, examples and claims she raises and then  consider the broader sociological, political, and philosophical implications of  her work.
in koertge n (ed.), a house built on sand, 1998, oxford university press, new york, new york, 286 [13] ibid, 291 [14] norris c. against relativism: philosophy of science, deconstruction and critical theory, blackwell publishers ltd., oxford, uk, 1997, 295
and, in the meantime, how many millions of  animals and people would have died from simple bacterial infections?
for rational positivists, objective facts exist and objective reality exists - independent of, and without regard to, personal beliefs, cultural constructs, or wishful thinking.
on the other hand, we would almost certainly have far more serious  problems to contend with such as nationwide famine and almost universal  poverty, since industrial agriculture would be impossible.
similar magnitudes can be assumed to hold for the livestock sector in most of the third world.
in reviewing dr. mccorkle's twenty-nine-page-long chapter, i will endeavor to move from the specific to the general.
(and citing examples where scientific biomedicine is incompetently applied or unavailable doesn't count.)
uncritically "buying into" or accepting the metaphysics  of those making such observations has not.
after all, the makah indians of western washington have recently attempted to do precisely the same thing.
for the benefit of non-cultural-anthropologists, "reductionism" is the intellectual tool by which scientists attempt to understand complex phenomena and things by "reducing" them to their constituent parts and underlying principles.
a few of the more avant garde intellectuals of the movement have even made the earth-shattering discoveries that all knowledge is subjective and therefore arbitrary and that objective reality, itself, is an illusion.
codeine, which is morphine-3-methyl ether, was synthesized from  opium by modern chemists.
seemingly nonscientific?
in the fall of 1994, theoretical physicist alan sokal submitted an essay tosocial text, the leading journal in the field of "cultural studies."
ethnopathophysiology: how people understand the interrelationship, functions, and malfunctions of different organs and systems (e.g., circulatory, nervous), often garnered from practical necropsy at slaughter or ritual sacrifice.
in a matter of hours, 80% of the sheep in  the high-dosage experiment group and 20% in the medium-dosage group died of  acute poisoning.
in real science, experimental results don't always conform to the experimenter's expectations.
if dr.  mccorkle is merely saying that everyone should work together for the common  good: fine.
the fact that what used to be merely the study of "veterinary folk medicine" has been transmogrified into the much more impressive-sounding "ethnoveterinary research, development and extension" speaks volumes about the proliferation of semantics and taxonomies in this field.
if that's the case, then doesn't dr. mccorkle's defining folk medicine as "ethnoscience" mean that, in her view, science, religion and magic are inextricably interwoven?
rather, each has much to learn  from the other.
one of the most fundamental assumptions of ethnomedical philosophy (if not cultural anthropology in general) is that, even though third world peoples seem overwhelmingly eager to join in the scientific revolution and enjoy the abundant fruits of modern science and technology, they should be "spared the negative impact such fruits are certain to incur on their cultures."
their ethnodiagnosis of the condition is nevertheless 100% accurate.
we wouldn't be using "new-fangled" antibiotics anyway, so "resistance" would be a "non-problem."
it passed "peer review" by five members ofsocial text's editorial board, and was published as a serious piece of scholarship.
this perspective is embodied by what philosophers of science have termed "the 'strong' program in sociology of knowledge."
well, fine: i'm sure  people do tend to "misuse and abuse" drugs they're not familiar with,  but that has always been a problem whenever and wherever new drugs have been  introduced - including in the west.
it's certainly unfortunate if such is the case, and it comes as a bit of surprise in view of the many recent triumphs of modern interdisciplinary science in other areas.
on the other hand, while they might be obliged to reject local as well as "western" notions of supernatural or metaphysical etiology, i don't think any good scientist is likely to dismiss out-of-hand the observations that have led folk medicine practitioners to do what they do.
in 1820, chemists were responsible for isolating  and purifying it into a therapeutic agent safer and more effective than  unprocessed bark or crude extract.
"ethnoscientists" gave us arrows poisoned by extract from various plant species.
i couldn't agree more whole-heartedly.
to her great credit, dr. mccorkle is perhaps the only contributor to schoen  and wynn's "alt-vet-med" opus to employ a fully rational definition  of "holistic" and/or "holism."
after all, in a rational world, the "ethno-diagnosis" and the "scientific biomedical diagnosis" can't be 100% different from each other and both be 100% accurate, right?
therapeutic  agents likely to be safe and at least marginally effective.
where we differ seems to be in how we propose to  determine "what works and what doesn't."
it's hard to imagine how anything could be construed as a misdiagnosis under such a system.
which varieties of folk medicine live up to this definition?
merely recognizing that a condition  exists, and being able to recognize it regularly, isn't really the problem.
certainly, we would now be dealing with only a very few  antibiotic resistant strains, but what good would that do us?
my food-animal veterinary practitioner colleagues will, i'm sure, be fascinated to learn that infectious keratoconjunctivitis has nothing to do with mycoplasma, rickettsia or chlamydia, and everything to do with "hot and cold diseases" and "evil winds."
all these benefits can add up to a fresh sense of local  confidence and control, stronger social structures, andempowerment of  people to work together at the local level - whether independently or with nonhegemonic formal-sector support - to solve more of their own development  problems.
alexander macdonald offers an interesting insight into "western"  (scientific) versus "traditional" models of medical delivery from the  fountainhead of "ethnomedicine," china: [10] [.] 60,000 people died in manchuria of a plague between 1910 and  1911.
is this an "understanding" or a "misunderstanding" of anatomy?
aren't mis-understandings as important as  understanding?
what about a shaman or witchdoctor who diagnoses by means of reading the entrails of slain goats?
i suspect that conventional "western" and even  "third world" veterinarians share dr. mccorkle's and my eagerness to  "integrate what works in folk medicine" with "what works in  scientific biomedicine."
isn't rural china the seat of the world's oldest  and most extensive branch of "ethnomedical science"?
consider such examples as social darwinism, creation science, fascist eugenics, and lysenkoism, among others.
after all,  distinguishing between what works and what doesn't is the single thing science  does best, isn't it?
ethnoetiologic and ethnoepidemiologic theories: the causes (supernatural as well as natural) that people assign to different diseases and their understandings about disease transmission (including zoonoses).
to the contrary, rather than viewing these casual findings and local beliefs as a starting-point for genuine scientific investigation, they attempt to construe them as the end-product of a scientific process.
while this is indeed the case in the rational world, "ethnoscience" not only isn't a part of the rational world, it denies the very existence of objective reality.
here is report from the medical literature which casts the practices of dr.  mccorkle's quechua "ethnoscientists" and "ethnomedical  practitioners" in a somewhat different light:[8] the data suggest a pattern of discrimination against females and  younger children, especially infants under age one, despite the fact that these  groups were reported to be sicker.
730: according to who [the world health organization], all  appropriate human resources must be tapped if basic health services are to  reach most of the worlds' humans; clearly the same can be recommended for the  livestock sector.
(and, by the way, they vividly  illustrate the fact that the "value-free, judgment-free" ethic of  cultural relativism doesnot extend to western european culture.)
is a butcher really best described as an "ethnopathologist" or an "ethnoanatomist"?
if they did, wouldn't it follow that all traditional interventions should not only "work," but work just as well as "western" (scientific biomedical) interventions.
all these materials can (and do) work as intended, but they also pose risks of secondary infection.
it's ironic that, just as this chapter was coming into print, the millennia-old scourge of smallpox was finally being eliminated from the face of the earth.
synergism occasionally occurs, but for every case where a desirable action is enhanced, there are several where undesirable actions are produced.
perhaps, if this "cultural anthropology thing" really gets going, we westerners can sharpen our harpoons and "get back into the business."
apparently she has spent many years in third world countries studying such matters from an anthropological perspective, so i'm willing to assume, for the moment, that such interdisciplinary scientific efforts have either not been widely attempted or have not been particularly successful in the past.
furthermore, while dr. mccorkle speaks of  "validating" traditional veterinary practices, she doesn't seem at  all eager to advocate discarding such practices when they're shown to be  ineffective, or to refine and develop those that pass scientific muster.
http://www.soz.uni-hannover.de/isoz/sokal/math.htm [2] rosen r. a physics prof drops a bomb on the faux left.
mccorkle employs the terms "etic" and "emic"  repeatedly throughout her chapter.
this, of course, makes "ethnoveterinary science and knowledge" a "non-falsifiable belief system."
it's quite literally "just another way of knowing."
it seems that many, if not most, cultural anthropologists (and their cultural constructivist kin, the post-modernists) have long since denied the all important distinction between the concept of "value-free examination" of other cultures as a tool and the philosophical conviction that all cultural entities are literally of equal value.
dr. mccorkle seems to have overlooked the fact that this endeavor was intended to be an experiment.
if one believes that seizures are caused by "an excess of  abdominal foam" (as do traditional healers in cameroon),[5] it leads one  to attempt to stop or reduce "foam secretion."
its most generous sponsors are the self-consciously left and often self-described post-modern academics of north american and european universities (and increasingly also from non-western universities as well), who see any claim of universality of modern science as the west's ploy for "disvaluing local concerns and knowledge and legitimating outside experts," as sandra harding put it (1994, 319).
this is not the place for an exegesis on the sociology of knowledge or the universality of the scientific method, however.
in precisely which areas of medicine do non-scientific or traditional systems score higher than scientific biomedicine?
this philosophy seems to be deeply rooted in the anti-science and anti-rationalist tenets of cultural relativism, cultural constructivism, and post-modernism.
heads  we win, tails you lose.
as we'll see, in the context of erd&e, the term "research" refers not to the critical scientific investigation of traditional or folk medical practices, but to their "judgment-free" investigation and "validation" in accordance with the tenets of cultural anthropology.
kenyan farming communities, for example, typically boast two or three traditional healers for livestock but no formally-trained veterinary workers.
this is no mean distinction.
as many experts have observed, the western model for delivery of animal health services has rarely worked well in developing countries.
after all, distinguishing between what works and what doesn't is the single thing science does best, isn't it?
finally, he contends that the various active constituents in a plant work synergistically to produce a total effect greater than the mere sum of the individual component activities.
perhaps noah webster can help here.
that would be a reductionist and ethnocentric "western" scientific approach.)
i can't help but see a bit of condescending  ethnocentrism in dr. mccorkle's views on such matters.
these intellectuals and movements openly and stridently reject the calls of earlier modernist/anticolonial "peoples science movements" in favor of postmodernist/postcolonialist "alternative science movements."
weil's first two points can be dismissed simply by pointing out that  dosage, which governs a drug's safety and efficacy, is much more readily  controlled with purified constituents.
as the late carl sagan once said: "there is no place for  magic in science."
(for reasons known only to themselves, unfortunately few post-modernist intellectuals have chosen to prove the point by jumping out of airplanes without parachutes.)
therefore  they collected and administered only the sap, instead of following the farmer's  practice of feeding the whole fruit.
(if some flesh-and-blood scientists in the field have dismissed such observation out of hand, it says a lot about their failings as scientists and very little about the shortcomings of science.)
believe it or not, under the tenets of ethnomedicine, "possession by demons" or "an excess of abdominal foam" are both perfectly acceptable "ethnoscientific" diagnoses for what ethno-scientifically unsavvy "western" healthcare professionals might identify as a case of idiopathic epilepsy.
effective ethnopharmaceuticals may pose fewer dangers  than do the more highly residual, poisonous, concentrated, and unfamiliar drugs  and agrochemicals of the first world.
of course, the author of this paper was  undoubtedly "biased" in favor of "western" science and  against "ethnoscience."
they  certainly show up time and again in their literature.
in a matter of hours, 80% of the sheep in the high-dosage experiment group and 20% in the medium-dosage group died of acute poisoning.
it's curious to note that, in the previous passage, dr. mccorkle refers to "iberian notions" of hot and cold disease and "incaic concepts" of evil winds.
it's curious to note that, in the previous passage, dr. mccorkle refers to  "iberian notions" of hot and cold disease and "incaic  concepts" of evil winds.
[.] suddenly, instead of ethnoscientific  knowledge, we're talking about "ethnomedical belief."
whereas the former sought to assimilate modern science into local settings as a means of cultural change and economic development, the latter see modern "western" science as a source of all that ails non-western societies and seek alternative "ways of knowing" grounded in their own civilizations.
fortunately, there is apparently no need to subject urine therapy and mud or fecal dressings to randomized controlled trials: dr. mccorkle assures us that these therapeutic interventions "can and do work."
many modern paraherbalists maintain that plants are not only the safest way to administer medicine, but also the most effective.
is this an  "understanding" or a "misunderstanding" of anatomy?
kenyan farming communities, for example,  typically boast two or three traditional healers for livestock but no  formally-trained veterinary workers.
the thoughtful among them take seriously the charge of condescension and deny that respectfully understanding others' beliefs implies a suspension of critical judgment.
the flaws of conventional science make [.] the need to  scientifically validate local knowledge and practice controversial.
the gift givers thus assure us that they are not against modern science per se, but only against its universal pretensions.
many of the most prominent post-modernist "theorists" appear to be quite proud of the fact that they are "untainted" by any scientific training whatever - as though not learning about science from other scientists and not being able to actually do science are somehow key to truly understanding it.
none of this is to say that ethnoscience is perfect or that conventional science must be abandoned.
while reductionism is merely one among many tools employed by science,  cultural constructivists and various other non-scientist critics of science  claim that "western science" is embodied by and limited to  reductionism.
of course, in the cultural constructivist universe of cognitive anthropology, one doesn't have to worry about facts, because there are no absolute facts - only "relative" ones.
"ethnoscientists" gave us arrows poisoned  by extract from various plant species.
do these terms denote and connote precisely the same  things?
despite my serious misgivings regarding what seem to be dr. mccorkle's  "strategic" social and political objectives, i am very much in favor  of at least some of her "tactical" objectives with regard to pastoral  and primitive agricultural societies.
i suspect the latter is the case, but it's not entirely obvious.
we wouldn't be  using "new-fangled" antibiotics anyway, so "resistance"  would be a "non-problem."
aren't these reasonably objective, descriptive terms?
while she concedes in passing that specific "western" pharmaceutical agents may be somewhat more effective than herbs or crude plant extracts, she goes out of her way to suggest that "western science-based medicine" has repeatedly failed to perform as well as its "ethnomedical" counterpart in dealing with such problems.
words such as  "nonhegemonic," "reductionist," "conventional  science," "western science," and cultural  "empowerment," are all taken directly from the "cultural  constructivist, post-modernist lexicon."
as many experts have observed, the western model for delivery  of animal health services has rarely worked well in developing countries.
harvard professor of physics and history of science, gerald holton, in his book "science and anti-science" (1993, 147) identifies what he calls ".the single most malignant part of the [anti-science] phenomenon: the type of pseudoscientific nonsense that manages to pass itself off as an "alternative" science,and does so in the service of political ambition."
(and citing examples where scientific  biomedicine is incompetently applied or unavailable doesn't count.)
it means that the scientific method is invalid.
the very suggestion is  antithetical to both the spirit and the principles of genuine scientific  investigation.
if one hopes to systematically investigate illnesses and efficiently develop  effective therapies, there simply is no substitute for an accurate,  science-based understanding of anatomy, physiology, and the etiology of  disease.
which varieties of  folk medicine live up to this definition?
aspirin and other synthetic salicylates soon completely displaced compounds obtained from natural sources.
dr.  mccorkle may be unaware of the fact that while natural and sythetic toxins  actually present similar inherent risks, animal and human exposure to natural  toxins is much higher than to synthetic ones.[6],[7]
[.] all around the globe, whether for human or livestock ailments, urine is commonly used as a disinfectant for cuts and abrasions, and mud or animal feces as a dressing for wounds and bruises.
and who would deny  the self-evident fact that the observations of pastoralists, herbalists, and  folk medicine practitioners sometimes "point a finger" leading to the  discovery and development of new husbandry techniques, pharmaceuticals and  healthcare technologies?
did such a product  ever reach the market?
730: according to who [the world health organization], all appropriate human resources must be tapped if basic health services are to reach most of the worlds' humans; clearly the same can be recommended for the livestock sector.
like it or not, all things being equal, dressings made of cow feces simply don't work as well on an open wound as antibiotics and sterile dressings do.
which two types of knowledge?
this seems a classic case of assuming one's conclusions in one's preamble.
if traditional systems had worked well in the west, there  would have been no incentive or need to develop scientific biomedicine in the  first place.
dr.  mccorkle seems to have overlooked the fact that this endeavor was intended to  be an experiment.
per capita ratios of modern versus traditional  practitioners to patients underscores this point.
these hold that whereas genuine science is "just another way of obtaining knowledge" and merely a "western cultural construct," traditional and folk medical systems are not only "sciences" in and of themselves, but deserve higher status and should command greater authority than "outsider" (etic) "western" science.
modern synthetic antimalarial drugs, however, are less toxic and more effective than quinine, and have largely replaced it.
it is variously calledethnoscience, situated knowledge, anti-northern eurocentric, orpost-colonial science - labels that derive their force from their parental rubric of social constructivist theories of science.
might not the sap of the papaya or a crude extract be  more stable and therefore more practical and economical for local stockraisers  to use than the highly perishable whole plant?
[off-set box 41-3] topics and themes in erd&e local knowledge should not be dismissed out of hand just because it is  sometimes couched in seemingly nonscientific or supernatural idiom; it should  always be investigated further.
in practice, methodological difficulties have been  especially common in the study of botanicals [.]
after all, in a rational world, the "ethno-diagnosis"  and the "scientific biomedical diagnosis" can't be 100% different  from each other and both be 100% accurate, right?
[off-set box 41-2] topics and themes in erd&e: ethnoveterinary science system: it's not immediately clear whether dr. mccorkle and her erd&e-advocating colleagues are suggesting that the following entities be studied in a scientific manner or that they are, in and of themselves, "sciences."
all sciences are ethnosciences, and none is more universally true than any other.
if, in the  1930s and 40s, we in the west had chosen to eschew chemical fertilizers, we  certainly would not be dealing with the nitrate runoff problems we currently  face.
prior to that time, the work of many anthropologists had been grossly tainted by their personal prejudices and western values.
sometimes it's neither possible, nor desirable, to maintain the cultural status quo.
ds  in various "liberal arts" and "social studies" disciplines,  very few of them seem to be scientists.
it's not clear what dr.  mccorkle thinks this anecdote illustrates.
differences were especially significant in  the allocation of biomedical treatments, the most costly in terms of parental  time, effort, and money.
when one reads the speakers lists for symposia on medical anthropology and the names of faculty or board members of pertinent organizations, one is likely to be immediately struck by the dearth or complete absence of physicians (m.d.s), scientific biomedical health professionals and scientists.
certainly it would be shortsighted to suggest that the  observations and ideas of witchdoctors, shamans and other traditional healers  should be "dismissed out-of-hand."
[.] isolation of active ingredients should not be a precondition for the  validation of ethnopharmaceuticals.
dr. mccorkle tells us on pages 734 and 735 that: [.] scientific validation of local knowledge and practice has  sometimes been problematic.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=retrieve&db=pubmed&list_uids=9178414&dopt=abstract [9] tyler ve.
on page 736, dr. mccorkle tells us: perhaps the most persistent advocate of this doctrine has been andrew t. weil, m.d., who argues, "in the case of drug plants, the whole forms, being complex mixtures and therefore impure, tend to be safer than their unmixed derivatives, freed from diluents and made available in highly refined form."
instead, cultural anthropologist mccorkle tells us: pg. 734:
and she  apparently dismisses the idea that healing may occur in spite of the treatments  offered.
for instance, pre-scientific experience with selective breeding of domestic animals played a major part in the development of modern genetics.
for instance, when cost or lack of  availability preclude the use of more safe and effective modern  pharmaceuticals, it makes sense to exploit herbal or traditional
are all such ideas "equally right"?
unfortunately for all involved (except, of course, the whales), the world changed unexpectedly, and these traditional whalers had to find another means of making a living.
moreover, the erd&e movement seems to embody the "vision" of a small group of western intellectuals who hope to impose a particular philosophy and dogma on said healthcare delivery systems.
unfortunately, since no author  or source is cited for this anecdote, we'll probably never know the answers to  these questions.
that's precisely where genuine science excels.
it is important to go beyond placing blame on individual parents or on culture, however, to address the underlying causes of differential health care allocation, such as poor socioeconomic conditions, lack of access to contraceptives, and female subordination.
perhaps the most persistent advocate of this doctrine has been andrew t.  weil, m.d., who argues, "in the case of drug plants, the whole forms,  being complex mixtures and therefore impure, tend to be safer than their  unmixed derivatives, freed from diluents and made available in highly refined  form."
throughout her writings, dr. mccorkle seems to assume an equality between "local" and "formal" practices.
how can anyone urge ex-colonial people to refuse this poultice of relativism when they are still so obviously smarting from the indignities of colonialism and when they need to affirm their identities to resist the seductions of the fast-encroaching mcworld?
modern science isolated d-tubocurarine from such an extract in the early 1930s and subsequently found it to be useful as a muscle relaxant during surgery.
if not, then how does one sort the "wrong" ideas from the "right" ones?.
other "ways of knowing" and "means of investigating the  universe" have, without exception, repeatedly proven to be horribly  inefficient and inconsistent in this regard.
after all, these methods have "worked" for peruvians for countless generations.
in fact, the terms seem to be favored  elements of "insider jargon" among cultural anthropologists.
must their dreams and aspirations be sacrificed on the politically correct "alter of cultural anthropology"?
[.]"ethnomedicine advocates" are clearly bent on abolishing such terms as "folk medicine," "traditional medicine," "shaman," "curandero" or even "witchdoctor"?
do all diagnoses reflect an  equally valid understanding of a disease process?
modern synthetic antimalarial drugs,  however, are less toxic and more effective than quinine, and have largely  replaced it.
were they eventually able to standardize the  product and determine a relatively safe and effective dose?
of course, from a scientific or even merely a rationalist perspective, this is nonsense.
"western" veterinarians can presumably forget about controlling the vectors of the disease since the vector turns out to be "evil wind" rather than flies.
in 1820, chemists were responsible for isolating and purifying it into a therapeutic agent safer and more effective than unprocessed bark or crude extract.
in almost every other context, it's less than worthless, and therein lies the rub.
ironically, some such "theorists" describe themselves as "philosophers of science.
of course, from a scientific or even merely a  rationalist perspective, this is nonsense.
how are we to  tell one from the other when the standard of proof (i.e., standard of evidence)
the flaws of conventional science make [.] the need to scientifically validate local knowledge and practice controversial.
i wonder what ethnoscience advocates would think of such a move.
don't most shamans, curanderos and witchdoctors describe themselves as shamans, curanderos and witchdoctors?
do the ethnoscience-advocating cultural anthropologists have the right to tell such individuals "forget about it: you're already an 'ethnoscientist'"?
again, what about the ways people mis-understand disease  transmission and cause?
all these benefits can add up to a fresh sense of local confidence and control, stronger social structures, andempowerment of people to work together at the local level - whether independently or with nonhegemonic formal-sector support - to solve more of their own development problems.
are there literally no "wrong" ideas about pathophysiology?
soc sci med 1997 jun;44(11):1711-23.
young children are thought to have a loose body-soul connection, making them more vulnerable to illness, and are though to be less human than older individuals.
is "if its been around for a long time and the locals believe it works, it  does"?
if they did, wouldn't it  follow that all traditional interventions should not only "work," but  work just as well as "western" (scientific biomedical) interventions.
aspirin and other synthetic  salicylates soon completely displaced compounds obtained from natural sources.
if one understands that seizures are due to paroxysms  of neuronal discharge, it leads one to look for ways to stabilize neuronal  physiology.
finally, investments in the study and application of useful local knowledge, practice and social organization can produce another important benefit: renewed respect for local cultures and technologic knowledge.
[.]suddenly, instead of ethnoscientific knowledge, we're talking about "ethnomedical belief."
the far more radical notion of cultural constructivism developed from cultural relativism.
in the ethnoscientific worldview, there are no objective facts or realities, only local "cultural constructs" of same.
but, if all diagnoses are  "correct," and one is no more or less accurate than another, what  good does it do to come up with a diagnosis at all?
however, the  "nonhegemonic" word is a bit disingenuous.
that is, i'll first examine and comment on specific statements, examples and claims she raises and then consider the broader sociological, political, and philosophical implications of her work.
for the benefit of non-cultural-anthropologists,  "reductionism" is the intellectual tool by which scientists attempt  to understand complex phenomena and things by "reducing" them to  their constituent parts and underlying principles.
moreover, in this and other medical anthropological and cultural constructivist literature, what modern scientists know as "science" is consistently described as "western science" or "conventional science," and it is generally described as having "failed" in most "third world" contexts.
it gave the world invaluable drugs such as aspirin,  codeine, curare, and quinine [.]
that where no formally-trained veterinarians exist, somebody is  going to move in to try to "help."
i suspect that conventional "western" and even "third world" veterinarians share dr. mccorkle's and my eagerness to "integrate what works in folk medicine" with "what works in scientific biomedicine."
" ethnodiagnostic knowledge and technique: based on all the above factors, plus clinical observation of signs and syndromes, how people decide what the given health care problem is and thus how to treat or control it.
consider the pertinent comments of professor of pharmacognosy, varro e. tyler:[9 ] [.] isolation of active ingredients should not be a precondition for the validation of ethnopharmaceuticals.
merely recognizing that a condition exists, and being able to recognize it regularly, isn't really the problem.
these groups do not form a coherent movement, and indeed have little interest in one another; some focus on the epistemological claims of science, others on its effects via technology, others still long for a return to a romanticized pre-modern version of science.
per capita ratios underscore  what point?
while other contributing authors have chosen, for instance, to ignore the fact that "holistic" traditional chinese medicine is oblivious to the existence of the nervous, the endocrine, and circulatory systems, or the fact that "holistic" homeopathy ignores both the "germ theory of disease" and modern physics, dr. mccorkle's definition deals only with "brass-tacks factual" considerations.
that is what makes these disparate assemblages operationally members of a loose consortium.
effective ethnopharmaceuticals may pose fewer dangers than do the more highly residual, poisonous, concentrated, and unfamiliar drugs and agrochemicals of the first world.
on the other hand, dr. mccorkle hasn't offered any coherent reason to assume that properly designed scientific approaches to these issues should not work.
in other words, investigators were obliged to assiduously resist the temptation to evaluate such cultures in relation to western culture.
it would seem, at best, patronizing for western "ethnomedicine  advocates" to suggest that "third world stockraisers" might be  any less capable of learning how to effectively cope with such introductions  than their western antecedents.
consider the pertinent comments of professor of pharmacognosy, varro e. tyler:[9 ] many modern paraherbalists maintain that plants are not only the  safest way to administer medicine, but also the most effective.
instead,  cultural anthropologist mccorkle tells us: pg. 734:
cultural constructivists insist that all science, all facts, all knowledge, and even reality itself are merely subjective "cultural constructs," and that one is no more "valid" than any other.
some authors have suggested that, rather than enhancing the precision of the definitions in question, ethnoscientific and post-modernist jargon are really intended to advance a certain social philosophy and political agenda.
things were pretty dicey for a while, but everything turned out for the best in the end.
what of the australian aborigine who wants to learn tensor mathematics or scientific biomedicine?
scientific testing, while perhaps "ethnoincorrect," actually provides a means of determining what works and what doesn't.
how are we to tell one from the other when the standard of proof (i.e., standard of evidence) is "if its been around for a long time and the locals believe it works, it does"?
[for those non-ethno-anthropologists out there,  iberian means spanish and incaic means "of the incas."]
the western scientific etic is really just another emic.
731-2: cautionary lessons
upon  careful reading of the above passage, one notices that the mortality rate in  the "low-dosage" group is not mentioned.
surely there must be a record of participation by these "scientists."
while it's possible that "traditional healers"  may occasionally, in their efforts to eliminate "heat" or  "cold," or foil demons or "evil winds," may stumble upon  therapeutic interventions that actually help, the process is haphazard at best.
where we differ seems to be in how we propose to determine "what works and what doesn't."
732: finally, because people are usually more familiar with indigenous medicines, they may be less likely to misuse or abuse these preparations than with alien western drugs.
of course, no medical delivery system has worked very well in  developing countries.
humans, livestock, local fauna, and the environment stand to benefit from ethnomedical alternatives.
what if science-based  medicine and animal husbandry fit this bill better than ethnomedicine and  ethnoscience?
do these terms denote and connote precisely the same things?
salicin works reasonably well as an antipyretic, but is extremely rough on the gi system - much more so than aspirin.
and where is the evidence for efficacy of the traditional treatment in the first place?
if dr. mccorkle is merely saying that everyone should work together for the common good: fine.
if one believes that seizures are caused by "an excess of abdominal foam" (as do traditional healers in cameroon),[5] it leads one to attempt to stop or reduce "foam secretion."
the problem is that,  in the real world, such a diagnosis doesn't help - at least not when one is  hoping to deliver effective health care.
such an assumption is certainlynot justified if one practice is demonstrably superior to another.
under the tenets of erd&e, when and if "ethnoveterinary science  and knowledge" fail to pass rigorous scientific muster, it doesn't mean  they aren't "valid" (whatever that means.)
weil also argues that the lesser concentration of an active constituent present in plant tissue renders such a drug safer to use.
at least until the 19th century, when western anatomical  knowledge became available, chinese medical practitioners held that the trachea  communicated not with the lungs, but with the abdomen.
all we have to do is look at present day "ethnomedicine-" and "ethnoscience-dependent" societies of which dr. mccorkle speaks.
dr. mccorkle seems to think that "conventional western" scientists are inherently incapable of considering the subjective, informally gathered anecdotal data offered by indigenous non-scientist farmers, pastoralists and healers.
certainly, we would now be dealing with only a very few antibiotic resistant strains, but what good would that do us?
words such as "nonhegemonic," "reductionist," "conventional science," "western science," and cultural "empowerment," are all taken directly from the "cultural constructivist, post-modernist lexicon."
the most aggressive consumers of ethnoscience are the equally "left" post-colonial intellectuals and activists associated with cultural/religious and other "new social movements" that aim to purge their cultures of all alien (mostly western) elements.
"ethnomedicine" gave us opium - a mixture of at least 20 alkaloids,  not codeine.
modern science isolated d-tubocurarine  from such an extract in the early 1930s and subsequently found it to be useful  as a muscle relaxant during surgery.
the holistic, interdisciplinary study of local knowledge  and its associated skills, practices, beliefs, practitioners, and the social  structures pertaining to the healthcare and healthful husbandry of food-,  work-, and other income-producing animals, always with an eye to practical  development applications within livestock production and livelihood systems and  with the ultimate goal of increasing human well-being via increased benefits  from stock raising.
did such a product ever reach the market?
in practice, methodological difficulties have been especially common in the study of botanicals [.]this is simply fatuous rubbish.
in fact, most of us  would be engaged in subsistence farming, absorbed from sun-up to sun-down,  seven days a week, in backbreaking manual labor, and hoping desperately to  avoid starvation and survive the next epidemic of vaccine-preventable human and  livestock disease.
eighty traditional physicians were specifically selected to control the  plague.
in any case, when on page 729 and again on page 733 dr. mccorkle refers to "lacunae in ethnoveterinary knowledge," i'm pretty sure she means there are "holes in ethnoveterinary knowledge" (i.e., that traditional animal healers don't have all the answers).
734: ethnomedicine itself provides an excellent example of  such processes [the integration of "conventional" science and  "ethno" science].
the quechua "ethnodiagnosis" for infectious keratoconjunctivitis is perhaps correct, if one defines correct as identifying that there is a problem in the eye of the sheep.
certainly it would be shortsighted to suggest that the observations and ideas of witchdoctors, shamans and other traditional healers should be "dismissed out-of-hand."
nonhegemonic formal-sector support?
the idea was that, in order to truly understand such cultures, one must examine them on an entirely "value free" basis.
finally,  he contends that the various active constituents in a plant work  synergistically to produce a total effect greater than the mere sum of the  individual component activities.
for example, cinchona bark contains some 25 closely related alkaloids, but the only one recognized as useful in the treatment of malaria is quinine.
we won't know which, if any, "ethnomedical  alternatives" are safe, effective, environmentally friendly and  economically sound until we scientifically investigate them one at a time.
in the fall of 1994,  theoretical physicist alan sokal submitted an essay tosocial text, the  leading journal in the field of "cultural studies."
and, since the disease isn't caused by infectious agents, neither western veterinary practitioners nor third world "ethnoveterinarians" will want to waste time or money on heretofore effective topical and cheap antibiotics.
if so, sixty years down the road would we really be better off for having persisted in using the "more familiar" old ways of treating and preventing disease or conducting agriculture?
as a direct result of just the concerns dr. mccorkle cites.
http://www.physics.nyu.edu/faculty/sokal/rosen.html [3] social text 46-47 (spring/summer 1996): 217-252 [4] "a physicist experiments with cultural studies," lingua franca (may/june 1996): 62-64 [5]preux pm, tiemagni f, fodzo l, kandem p, ngouafong p, ndonko f, macharia w, dongmo l, dumas m. antiepileptic therapies in the mifi province in cameroon.
of course, the author of this paper was undoubtedly "biased" in favor of "western" science and against "ethnoscience."
i'm sure that ethnoscience advocates would be aghast at the western ethnocentric notion that the time time-tested ethnoscientific techniques of female infanticide and female subordination and ethnoscientific knowledge regarding disease vulnerability of female children should be thrown out in favor of contraception, increased access to western medicine, and western notions of sexual egalitarianism.
the traditional treatment consists merely of  periodically feeding the sheep whole, immature papaya fruits.
are all such  ideas "equally right"?
all systems may 'work'; in practice, all have successes and  failures, with some systems scoring much higher in particular areas of  medicine, depending on the social, cultural, and economic context in which they  are applied, as well as on their biomedical bases.
we can only guess what "mechanisms" dr. mccorkle feels science has "overlooked."
this definition undoubtedly appeals to some sociologists and cultural anthropologists, but most scientists will recognize it as nonsense.
the single great "truth" cultural constructivists and post-modernists have to offer is that "western" science is really nothing special.
when unfamiliar drugs and technologies have been introduced in the west, education rather than abstinence has generally proven to be the most rewarding approach.
i also suspect that attempting to make them aware of the "germ theory of infection" would be construed as blatant ethnocentric imperialist indoctrination.
perhaps noah webster can  help here.
why should third world citizens care how  or even who solves their development problems, so long as the problems get  solved and the solutions are satisfactory to them?
for instance, when cost or lack of availability preclude the use of more safe and effective modern pharmaceuticals, it makes sense to exploit herbal or traditional therapeutic agents likely to be safe and at least marginally effective.
the key term here is "may."
and what about those makah, maasai and quechua people who don't want to follow the "primitive pastoralist" or "hunter-gatherer" lifestyles their ancestors have endured for the last 750 generations or more?
if so, sixty years  down the road would we really be better off for having persisted in using the  "more familiar" old ways of treating and preventing disease or  conducting agriculture?
how is this possible?
that's a tough break for the little kids, and especially the little girls in peru, who have to die as a result.
might it have been 0%?
so far as i'm aware, ethnoveterinary science advocates are not lobbying western farmers and stockraisers to forgo modern science and technology in favor of 19th and 18th century alternatives.
that where no formally-trained veterinarians exist, somebody is going to move in to try to "help."
is it possible for any diagnosis, other than perhaps "western"  scientific ones, to be wrong under the rubric of "ethnomedical  science"?
all these materials can (and do) work as intended, but they also pose  risks of secondary infection.
since bona fide science is an inherently flexible rather than dogmatic method, integrating such data and sources of information should pose no insurmountable problems.
sometimes, however, ethnomedical beliefs are actually harmful
or the good ideas  from the not so good?
after all, these  methods have "worked" for peruvians for countless generations.
-----------------------------
but if western knowledge must be used to criticize non-western practices, they insist, the critics must acknowledge that western science is not a god's eye view, but a situated, ethnocentric, western view of the world (see rentlen 1988).
this is simply fatuous rubbish.
if not, then how does one sort the  "wrong" ideas from the "right" ones?.
ethnomedicine advocates insist that local medical practices and husbandry techniques offer great potential benefit to local farmers and pastoralists, and that local knowledge and expertise should take precedence over that stemming from "outside" cultures.
why should third world citizens care how or even who solves their development problems, so long as the problems get solved and the solutions are satisfactory to them?
instead of imposing new self-descriptions on third world practitioners, why don't dr. mccorkle and her colleagues advocate that we simply re-define "western" pathologists and anatomists as ethno-butchers, ethno-shamans, and ethno-witchdoctors?
i can't help but see a bit of condescending ethnocentrism in dr. mccorkle's views on such matters.
it clearly constitutes a broad, sweeping and pro-active attempt to manipulate and radically re-engineer the sociology of veterinary healthcare delivery in the third world - putatively for the benefit of both local and international stockraisers.
throughout her writings,  dr. mccorkle seems to assume an equality between "local" and  "formal" practices.
but, if all diagnoses are "correct," and one is no more or less accurate than another, what good does it do to come up with a diagnosis at all?
in most "non-western" cultures, traditional or folk medicine is an integral part of the local religion and magical/metaphysical belief systems.
here's what dr. mccorkle has to say about the role of science, and the "limitations" of science, in evaluating ethnomedicine: pg. 735: at another level, experiences in human ethnomedicine suggest that researchers using conventional scientific methodologies may overlook some mechanisms by which natural medicines produce their effect.
the average veterinarian might read this and assume  that dr. mccorkle is surely going to suggest the obvious: that carefully  designed scientific studies and field work are called for.
conversely, what most scientists would construe as "local religious or metaphysical belief systems" and "traditional or folk medicine" are consistently described as "ethnoscience" and "ethnomedicine." pg.
it's hard to imagine how anything could be construed as a  misdiagnosis under such a system.
likewise, the notion of the "supernatural" is  antithetical to true science (as distinct from pseudoscience).
presumably she felt that more readers would understand "lacunae" than would understand "holes." function: adjective etymology: phonemic date: 1954 : of, relating to, or involving analysis of linguistic or behavioral phenomena in terms of the internal structural or functional elements of a particular system cognitive anthropology has repeatedly demonstrated a basic structural similarity in the two types of knowledge.
[off-set box 41-2] topics and themes in erd&e: ethnoveterinary science system: it's not immediately clear whether dr. mccorkle and her  erd&e-advocating colleagues are suggesting that the following entities be  studied in a scientific manner or that they are, in and of themselves,  "sciences."
veterinarians and stockraisers in the west have had more than a few problems in learning how to properly employ (or not employ) various newly introduced drugs and technologies over the last 60 years.
are both approaches equally likely to lead to seizure control?
that process, they assert, is  "ethnoscience."
ethnoveterinary semantics and taxonomies.
moreover, in this and other medical anthropological and cultural constructivist  literature, what modern scientists know as "science" is consistently  described as "western science" or "conventional science,"  and it is generally described as having "failed" in most "third  world" contexts.
from this perspective, all that has really happened to western culture since the enlightenment is that we've traded one type of "ethnoscience" for another, and the latter version is not one whit "better" or more inherently effective than the former.
local observation and local notions of metaphysical etiology are entirely separate issues, but the distinction is one that dr. mccorkle seems to either overlook or not to understand.
as last (1990) observes for medical systems cross-culturally,  "in theory.
in such a fashion, regularly identifying that a person had epilepsy, but attributing the cause to possession by the devil, would most likely be a proper "ethnodiagnosis."
of course, we don't have to wonder whether or not things really would have turned out that way.
a mathematician reads social text.
the only person who was able to help  was a young cambridge-trained doctor, wu lien-te, who used his scientific  knowledge to direct the sanitary and public health measures required to prevent  the plague from spreading further.
on page 732, dr. mccorkle cites five circumstances in which, she concedes,  ethnoveterinary medicine "may not be the best alternative."
at least until the 19th century, when western anatomical knowledge became available, chinese medical practitioners held that the trachea communicated not with the lungs, but with the abdomen.
chemists discovered aspirin in 1899, learning to synthesize it from coal tar.
the core of the problem, of course, is that real science tends to work, and most "other ways of knowing" - including social and political "sciences" and cultural anthropology - tend not to work very well, or at least they fail to yield tangible and consistent results.
they assert that these are examples of a collaboration between just two of many "co-equal sciences," and that "western" science plays no privileged part in the relationship and deserves no particular credit for the results.
much of dr.  mccorkle's chapter deals with the alleged triumphs of "ethnoveterinary  medicine" over parasitism in livestock in the third world.
likewise, the notion of the "supernatural" is antithetical to true science (as distinct from pseudoscience).
health care allocation and ethnographic data suggest that selective  neglect (passive infanticide) may be occurring in rural peru, possibly as a  means of regulating family size and sex ratio.
the gift i want to return is the cluster of theories that forbids outsiders from evaluating the truth or falsity of any beliefs of other people in other cultures from the vantage point of what is scientifically known about the world and, conversely, allows the insiders to reject as ethnocentric and imperialistic any truth claim that does not use locally accepted metaphysical categories and rules of justification.
he attributes this trend to a couple of factors:[14] these have to do with the current predominance of anti-realist and cultural relativist thinking in disciplines whose chief objective is to cast doubt on the truth-claims, methods, and evaluative procedures of the natural sciences.
false tenets of paraherbalism.
the fact is that many non-residual rapidly and spontaneously self-degrading pesticides have been developed and marketed in recent decades - as a direct result of just the concerns dr. mccorkle cites.
while this is indeed the case  in the rational world, "ethnoscience" not only isn't a part of the  rational world, it denies the very existence of objective reality.
and notwithstanding the "veterinary" in "ethnoveterinary medicine," few if any veterinarians seem to be active participants in the erd&e "movement."
it is important to go beyond  placing blame on individual parents or on culture, however, to address the  underlying causes of differential health care allocation, such as poor  socioeconomic conditions, lack of access to contraceptives, and female  subordination.
the scientific review of alternative medicine, fall/winter 1998.
it appeared in a april 1996 as  part of a special double-issue devoted to rebutting the charge that cultural  studies critiques of science tend to be riddled with incompetence.
in precisely which areas of medicine do non-scientific or traditional systems  score higher than scientific biomedicine?
this definition undoubtedly appeals to some  sociologists and cultural anthropologists, but most scientists will recognize  it as nonsense.
and she apparently dismisses the idea that healing may occur in spite of the treatments offered.
in fact, the terms seem to be favored elements of "insider jargon" among cultural anthropologists.
in 1998, the washington post carried an article about china's parasitism problem.[11] apparently 70% of rural chinese are parasitized, primarily by various species of worms, resulting in malnutrition, decreased intelligence and general weakening of the work force.
since the current post-modernist, cultural constructivist movement in academia is intent upon repudiating and undoing the intellectual accomplishments of the enlightenment, i propose that we refer to their objective as the "unenlightenment."
the western idea is a "notion" while the amerindian idea is a "concept."
while dr. mccorkle and erd&e-advocate colleagues are clearly very keen on "studying" traditional veterinary practices and veterinary folk medicine, only once in the course of her chapter does she mention, in passing, the need to "discriminate" between effective and ineffective therapies: pg.
as last (1990) observes for medical systems cross-culturally, "in theory.
some authors have suggested  that, rather than enhancing the precision of the definitions in question,  ethnoscientific and post-modernist jargon are really intended to advance a  certain social philosophy and political agenda.
dr. mccorkle tells us on pages 734 and 735 that: [.] scientific validation of local knowledge and practice has sometimes been problematic.
how many different types are there?
perhaps dr.  mccorkle can tell us which "traditional medical systems" even  conceptualized an immune system or the cellular nature of living tissue before  these entities were discovered and articulated by "western" science.
i'm willing to assume, at least for the sake of argument, that most quechua people, australian aborigines, and most other aboriginal peoples want to maintain their current lifestyles.
in the context of cultural anthropology, cultural relativism is a rational, effective, and otherwise wonderful idea.
the comments of indian microbiologist, science and technology scholar, and science journalist meera nanda are particularly salient:[12] ethnoscience: gift or charity?
codeine, which is morphine-3-methyl ether, was synthesized from opium by modern chemists.
is a butcher really best described as an "ethnopathologist" or an  "ethnoanatomist"?
[off-set box 41-10] traditional vs. modern pharmacology: in 1994 a set of on-station trials was mounted in indonesia to validate local javanese treatment for ovine endoparasitism, with the goal of making a commercial version for the market.
what about the various ways people misunderstand these things?
sometimes, however, ethnomedical beliefs are  actually harmful
the western and third world critics of the universality of science are united in reversing the terms of respect in sandra harding's statement quoted earlier; that is, they want to value local concerns and knowledge and delegitimize outside experts, assuming all the while that the local and the outside are irreconcilable and that the knowledge of the "outside" experts - that is, modern science - is nothing more than an imposition on reluctant local knowers.
or the influences of demons or "evil winds"?
the fact is that many non-residual rapidly and spontaneously  self-degrading pesticides have been developed and marketed in recent decades -
uncritically "buying into" or accepting the metaphysics of those making such observations has not.
the technique has  been wildly successful, as the development of high technology in the west  attests.
female children are valued less because of their future social and economic  potential.
perhaps it  would be more "ethnomedically correct" to suggest a poultice  comprised of 50% cow feces and 50% antibiotic ointment.
these theories hold that, because modern "western" science is but one among many ways of understanding the world and is embedded in its own cultural context of production as other knowledges are in theirs, it cannot serve as a transculturally valid source of knowledge.
these are all ethnocentric fantasies.)
dressing up folk medicine as  "ethnomedicine," and shamans as "ethnoscientists," then  equating them with scientific biomedicine and scientists merely obfuscates  these facts by means of insipid jargon.
to the contrary, these two "disciplines" have significantly impacted the effort, but not in a way most readers might anticipate.[13] frederique apffel marglin, a well-known anthropologist from a well-known american university, with the full endorsement of india's foremost social scientists, recently declared that the eradication of smallpox from india using modern cowpox-based vaccine was an affront to the local custom of variolation, which included inoculation with human smallpox matter accompanied by prayers to the goddess of smallpox, sitala devi.
the first couple of times i read this  passage, i assumed that the author merely meant that the idiom sometimes is  unscientific or supernatural.
furthermore, while dr. mccorkle speaks of "validating" traditional veterinary practices, she doesn't seem at all eager to advocate discarding such practices when they're shown to be ineffective, or to refine and develop those that pass scientific muster.
likewise, while many participants apparently hold ph.
at this point, i think it would be constructive to consider what scholars and scientists critical of the "ethnoscience" movement have had to say.
to the contrary, rather  than viewing these casual findings and local beliefs as a starting-point for  genuine scientific investigation, they attempt to construe them as the  end-product of a scientific process.
likewise, chemical  fertilizers may be more expensive than livestock manure, but they are vastly  more effective on a per-unit-of-weight basis and much less likely to result in  the transmission of salmonella, e. coli, and other pathogens to human or animal  consumers.
apparently, people solving their own local development problems is  ethno-politically ok, but only so long as they don't resort to  "hegemonic" governmental or "western" institutions - i.e.,  those institutions that depend upon real science, with its objective reality,  absolute truths, and concrete facts.
the problem in accurately evaluating packages of ethnoveterinary (or conventional) idm [integrated disease-management] is one of western scientific reductionism.
ethnoveterinary medicine: "ethnoscience" or just anti-science?
while they might not realize it, most readers here, and virtually all scientists, are rational positivists and modernists.
for a highly revealing and absolutely hilarious insight into the  façade of post-modernist and cultural constructivist jargon and puffery,  i refer readers to the "sokal affair.
perhaps it would be more "ethnomedically correct" to suggest a poultice comprised of 50% cow feces and 50% antibiotic ointment.
systematically test them?
alexander macdonald offers an interesting insight into "western" (scientific) versus "traditional" models of medical delivery from the fountainhead of "ethnomedicine," china: [10] [.] 60,000 people died in manchuria of a plague between 1910 and 1911.
this is not what they meant at all, they assure us
yet it is precisely this rather delicate task of returning a well-intentioned gift that i have taken upon myself in this essay.
[off-set box 41-10] traditional vs. modern pharmacology:
it remains  to be seen whether or not this new and ever-expanding jargon is a worthwhile  invention.
consider  such examples as social darwinism, creation science, fascist eugenics, and  lysenkoism, among others.
upon careful reading of the above passage, one notices that the mortality rate in the "low-dosage" group is not mentioned.
in any case, if a "theory" or "intellectual  system" assumes the reality of magic or supernatural forces, no matter  what you call it, it isn't "science.
aren't mis-understandings as important as understanding?
in 1994 a set of on-station trials was mounted in indonesia to validate local  javanese treatment for ovine endoparasitism, with the goal of making a  commercial version for the market.
how people name and classify diseases, treatments and other health matters.
professor of philosophy, christopher norris, has observed that cultural relativist literature has been much more widely and enthusiastically embraced by "cultural theorists and socio-historians of science" than has positive rationalist alternatives.
in other words, it's a means of "taking the universe apart to see how it works."
in any case, if a "theory" or "intellectual system" assumes the reality of magic or supernatural forces, no matter what you call it, it isn't "science.
i would be the first to concede that these are examples of non-scientist,  informal observers providing science and scientists with invaluable  information, but that is not what dr. mccorkle and her colleagues are claiming.
as a corollary, formal-sector health care workers, extensionists, educators, scientists, and policymakers may also gain increased appreciation of the knowledge and experience that their clients, students, users and citizens already possess.
did the "scientists" conducting this experiment view it as a failure?
[.] why should anyone want to refuse such a generous gift, least of all someone like myself whose own native indian culture was berated for so long by the british rulers as irrational, mystical, and superstitious?
my food-animal veterinary practitioner colleagues will, i'm sure, be fascinated  to learn that infectious keratoconjunctivitis has nothing to do with  mycoplasma, rickettsia or chlamydia, and everything to do with "hot and  cold diseases" and "evil winds."
dressing up folk medicine as "ethnomedicine," and shamans as "ethnoscientists," then equating them with scientific biomedicine and scientists merely obfuscates these facts by means of insipid jargon.
ethnographic data on child illness, gender, and  developmental concepts help to explain why children of different genders and  ages may be treated differently in the rural andes.
health care allocation and ethnographic data suggest that selective neglect (passive infanticide) may be occurring in rural peru, possibly as a means of regulating family size and sex ratio.
young children are thought to have a loose body-soul connection, making  them more vulnerable to illness, and are though to be less human than older  individuals.
the very suggestion is antithetical to both the spirit and the principles of genuine scientific investigation.
here is report from the medical literature which casts the practices of dr. mccorkle's quechua "ethnoscientists" and "ethnomedical practitioners" in a somewhat different light:[8] the data suggest a pattern of discrimination against females and younger children, especially infants under age one, despite the fact that these groups were reported to be sicker.
[off-set box 41-3] topics and themes in erd&e local knowledge should not be dismissed out of hand just because it is sometimes couched in seemingly nonscientific or supernatural idiom; it should always be investigated further.
or the good ideas from the not so good?
health care allocation and selective neglect in rural peru.
a review of dr. constance mccorkle's chapter 41: "ethnoveterinary  medicine" by robert imrie, dvm dr. constance mccorkle begins her chapter on "ethnoveterinary  medicine" by telling us that ethnoveterinary research, development and  extension (erd&e), has emerged as a "fertile field" that promises  to benefit "rural and peri-urban stockraisers" not just in the third  world, but everywhere, by virtue of the "generation (or  regeneration)" of certain "animal health technologies" she and her colleagues define ethnoveterinary research, development and  extension as: pg. 713:
this  "'ethnoscience' vs. 'conventional science' dilemma" is a false one.
(and that's precisely why i suspect this message stems from the "cultural anthropology community" rather than "scientific community.")
what many non-scientists fail to appreciate is that such informal long-term observation often provides a key impetus and essential starting point for genuine scientific investigation.
it does not follow, however, that hummingbirds are spacecraft.
main entry: et·ic pronunciation: 'e-tikmain entry: emic function: adjective etymology: phonetic date: 1954 : of, relating to, or having linguistic or behavioral characteristics considered without regard to their structural significance pronunciation: 'e-mikthen again, perhaps not.
and who would deny the self-evident fact that the observations of pastoralists, herbalists, and folk medicine practitioners sometimes "point a finger" leading to the discovery and development of new husbandry techniques, pharmaceuticals and healthcare technologies?
this neglect probably results from a narrow conception of therapeutic action.
on page 735, dr. mccorkle cites this anonymous anecdote as an example of a  "costly" and "embarrassing error" which might have been  prevented had the "scientists" involved heeded the advice of local  stockraisers (or, presumably, other types of "ethnoscientists").
this leads to an interesting question.
humans, livestock, local fauna, and the  environment stand to benefit from ethnomedical alternatives.
as a  corollary, formal-sector health care workers, extensionists, educators,  scientists, and policymakers may also gain increased appreciation of the  knowledge and experience that their clients, students, users and citizens  already possess.
the consensus view among proponents of cultural constructivism, post-modernism, and ethnoscience seems to be that the "scientific revolution" was merely a western ethnic fantasy.
dr. mccorkle may be unaware of the fact that while natural and sythetic toxins actually present similar inherent risks, animal and human exposure to natural toxins is much higher than to synthetic ones.[6],[7]
in all the examples she cites, the problems involved would seem to be entirely amenable to the skills of parasitologists, epidemiologists, agronomists, pharmacologists, phytopharmacognosists and other scientists working in concert with scientific bio-medical practitioners, economists, sociologists, and anthropologists.
in real science, experimental results don't always conform to  the experimenter's expectations.
it would seem, at best, patronizing for western "ethnomedicine advocates" to suggest that "third world stockraisers" might be any less capable of learning how to effectively cope with such introductions than their western antecedents.
the facts are as follows: "ethnomedicine" gave us not aspirin, which is acetylsalicylic acid, but the bitter glycoside salicin in the form of willow bark.
how might one determine if their experiences are actually worthwhile?
(in fact, they are still struggling with such issues as how best to employ - or not employ - antibiotics in livestock husbandry.)
rational positivists hold that there is such a thing as objective reality, that the universe is at least potentially understandable, that it is subject to immutable physical laws, and, like their modernist brethren, that the european enlightenment and post-enlightenment discoveries of galileo, kepler, newton, dalton, kelvin, maxwell, planck, heisenberg and einstein have resulted in an ever-more accurate image of the universe and an ever-deeper understanding of how the universe works.
also, it's inaccurate and disingenuous to characterize all "'first world' drugs and agrochemicals" as "highly residual and poisonous."
" if one really takes a close look at the "ethnoscience" and "ethnomedicine" literature, one learns that that not only are practitioners of "western" scientific biomedicine "of no more or less benefit to patients" than shamans and witchdoctors (i.e., "ethno-medical practitioners and ethnoscientists"), they differ only in thekinds of healing magic they administer.
in most "non-western" cultures, traditional or folk medicine is  an integral part of the local religion and magical/metaphysical belief systems.
are  there literally no "wrong" ideas about pathophysiology?
of course, modern science has been so wildly successful that it's only feasible to effectively malign and depreciate it if one willfully mischaracterizes and misapprehends it.
who or what do you suppose dr. mccorkle could be talking about here?
[emphasis in original.] he continues (1993, 153): today there exist a number of different groups which from their various perspectives oppose what they conceive of as the hegemony of science-as-done-today in our culture.
who or what do you  suppose dr. mccorkle could be talking about here?
i also suspect that  attempting to make them aware of the "germ theory of infection" would  be construed as blatant ethnocentric imperialist indoctrination.
heads we win, tails you lose.
is it possible for any diagnosis, other than perhaps "western" scientific ones, to be wrong under the rubric of "ethnomedical science"?
i no longer think this is the case.
also, it's worth noting that hummingbirds share a "basic structural similarity" with the space shuttle.
(actually, this is not entirely true: many cultural relativists and post-modernists are happy to disparage anything and everything they view as "western" - especially science.)
what many non-scientists fail to  appreciate is that such informal long-term observation often provides a key  impetus and essential starting point for genuine scientific investigation.
are both approaches  equally likely to lead to seizure control?
under the tenets of erd&e, when and if "ethnoveterinary science and knowledge" fail to pass rigorous scientific muster, it doesn't mean they aren't "valid" (whatever that means.)
isn't this just another form of condescending and patronizing neo-imperialism?
on page 732, dr. mccorkle cites five circumstances in which, she concedes, ethnoveterinary medicine "may not be the best alternative."
also, why is this account "anonymous"?
if, in the 1930s and 40s, we in the west had chosen to eschew chemical fertilizers, we certainly would not be dealing with the nitrate runoff problems we currently face.
tell us something we don't already know.
nowhere in her chapter does dr. mccorkle suggest or even discuss the problem of getting shamans, witchdoctors, or other varieties of "ethnoveterinary scientists" to abandon ineffective or unsafe practices.
they provide a context in  which to interpret health care allocation data, and, in the absence of a  population-based study, reinforce findings based on the limited study sample.
i suspect that  "over my dead body, you quack" would be construed as demonstration of  "hegemonic, imperialist, oppressive, close-minded, and ethnophobic"  disrespect toward a "fellow health professional."
nowhere in  her chapter does dr. mccorkle suggest or even discuss the problem of getting  shamans, witchdoctors, or other varieties of "ethnoveterinary  scientists" to abandon ineffective or unsafe practices.
this, of course, makes "ethnoveterinary  science and knowledge" a "non-falsifiable belief system."
apparently, people solving their own local development problems is ethno-politically ok, but only so long as they don't resort to "hegemonic" governmental or "western" institutions - i.e., those institutions that depend upon real science, with its objective reality, absolute truths, and concrete facts.
they wish science to confess its culture, take on an ethnic middle name (western) and become one among many other ethnosciences.
this is not much of a revelation.
such a project only demands, they claim, that every society should use criteria that are internal to its own "specific historical tradition," for the criticism of its own knowledge and values.
despite her own admission that the traditional variolation is at least 10 times more likely to actually cause the disease as compared to the modern vaccine, marglin persists in deriding the introduction of modern vaccine in india by the british (and the latter support of mass-vaccination programs by the government of independent india) as an imposition of "western logocentric mode of thought," which treats health as a binary opposite of illness, over the "indic" nonlogocentric, binary-denying view, which treats the goddess sitala as both the disease and its absence (a. marglin, 1990).
it is indeed doubly impolite if the gift was intended as a token of respect and solidarity.
they assert that these are examples of a collaboration between just two of many  "co-equal sciences," and that "western" science plays no  privileged part in the relationship and deserves no particular credit for the  results.
generally speaking, science, social philosophies and political agendas - no matter how well intentioned -- have made exceedingly poor bedfellows.
i would have loved to dissect such an "exegesis," had dr. mccorkle been willing to offer one.
cultural constructivists seem to prefer broad philosophical,  magical and metaphysical understandings of the universe which are not based on  objective and systematic examination of constituent parts and underlying  physical laws.
this "'ethnoscience' vs. 'conventional science' dilemma" is a false one.
usa classification: medical sciences contributed by bruce n. ames july 17, 1990 revised: august 15, 1990 http://socrates.berkeley.edu/mutagen//ames.pnasii.html [8]larme ac.
what about a shaman or witchdoctor who diagnoses by  means of reading the entrails of slain goats?
and, what's the relationship between knowledge and fact?
"western"  veterinarians can presumably forget about controlling the vectors of the  disease since the vector turns out to be "evil wind" rather than  flies.
is the administration of "sap" or a crude plant extract really a manifestation of "modern pharmacology"?
in 1998, the washington post  carried an article about china's parasitism problem.[11] apparently 70% of  rural chinese are parasitized, primarily by various species of worms, resulting  in malnutrition, decreased intelligence and general weakening of the work  force.
if, as is apparently the case in some parts of sub-saharan  africa, people believe that men can cure themselves of aids or hiv infection by  having sex with a virgin, does that constitute an "understanding" of  hiv epidemiology/etiology/ pathophysiology, or a "mis-understanding"  of same?
more specifically, such a specialized and intentionally impenetrable language allows "insiders" to identify one another as such, and creates the impression among "outsiders" that "insiders" enjoy special knowledge and expertise, and have a deeper understanding of the pertinent issues than "uninitiated" others.
weil's first two points can be dismissed simply by pointing out that dosage, which governs a drug's safety and efficacy, is much more readily controlled with purified constituents.
mccorkle employs the terms "etic" and "emic" repeatedly throughout her chapter.
for example, cinchona bark contains some 25  closely related alkaloids, but the only one recognized as useful in the  treatment of malaria is quinine.
and where is the evidence for efficacy of the traditional  treatment in the first place?
more specifically, such a  specialized and intentionally impenetrable language allows "insiders"  to identify one another as such, and creates the impression among  "outsiders" that "insiders" enjoy special knowledge and  expertise, and have a deeper understanding of the pertinent issues than  "uninitiated" others.
if dr. mccorkle could travel back to the 1940s, would she be lobbying against the introduction in the west of antibiotics or petrochemical fertilizers and advocating that farmers, veterinarians and physicians cling to the "tried and true old ways"?
of course, no medical delivery system has worked very well in developing countries.
did the "scientists" conducting this  experiment view it as a failure?
their ethnodiagnosis of  the condition is nevertheless 100% accurate.
such research is not only costly, but  reductionistic because traditional prescriptions are often intended to produce  simultaneous or synergistic actions such as site-specific attack on the  disease, enhanced immune response, increased cellular uptake, and repression of  side effects.
perhaps dr. mccorkle can tell us which "traditional medical systems" even conceptualized an immune system or the cellular nature of living tissue before these entities were discovered and articulated by "western" science.
in such  instances, advocating the superior (more effective and productive) practice  does not constitute hegemony.
unfortunately, since no author or source is cited for this anecdote, we'll probably never know the answers to these questions.
cultural constructivists seem to prefer broad philosophical, magical and metaphysical understandings of the universe which are not based on objective and systematic examination of constituent parts and underlying physical laws.
starting in the 1950s and 60s, more than a few "social scientists" developed severe cases of what has been termed "physics envy," (though the malaise certainly involves similar resentment toward mathematics, chemistry, physiology, genetics, biology and virtually all other bona fide sciences).
who can say what treasures these  resources might yield?
http://www.quackwatch.com/01quackeryrelatedtopics/paraherbalism.html [10] macdonald a, acupuncture, from ancient art to modern medicine, allen and unwin.
rather than taking third world agriculturalists "back to the future," ethnoveterinary medicine seems more likely to keep them stuck in the past.
i'm sure that ethnoscience advocates would be  aghast at the western ethnocentric notion that the time time-tested  ethnoscientific techniques of female infanticide and female subordination and  ethnoscientific knowledge regarding disease vulnerability of female children  should be thrown out in favor of contraception, increased access to western  medicine, and western notions of sexual egalitarianism.
it's understanding why the condition exists and knowing what to do about it that really counts.
i would be the first to concede that these are examples of non-scientist, informal observers providing science and scientists with invaluable information, but that is not what dr. mccorkle and her colleagues are claiming.