brian benjamin carter (bbc): many cm practitioners in the west have been trained from secondary sources (translations).
among his many books arethe treatment of modern western medical diseases with chinese medicine(with bob flaws) and his seven-volume series,the treatment of disease in chinese medicine (with lu gang).
hopefully authors and searchers are now moving closer and closer to the original chinese sources.
the history of chinese medicine's ideas transmitted through its great masters is simply amazing.
phs: i am convinced there is just no other option.
i am much more interested in the heart of chinese medicine than in its facade.
this is the traditonal way of practicing this art.
at deals & events e-mail newsletter
phs: i am impressed by many great masters.
there is no denying the massage and  wellness industry is here to stay.
it is  our experience that massage therapists are some of the most giving,  compassionate people on the planet.
that is my favorite part of chinese medicine!click here for previous articles by brian carter, msci, lac.
however, i believe that the goal of medicine is to obtain better than placebo results, or else we should just give our patients sugar pills!
i have the highest respect for his use of exclusively  chinese sources.
for example, how are european practitioners different from american or australian practitioners?
positional release self  care for soreness and other pains if your patients are anything like  mine, they will report to you that there is commonly a degree of discomfort,  soreness or stiffness a day or so following manual treatment no matter how  gentle or appropriate that treatment might have been.
i was honored once again when he  graciously agreed to this interview.
phs: i don't actually travel or do conferences a lot, and  writing is a long-term effort that leaves me enough time for clinical practice,  so i don't have to be selective, but i do prefer patients who live near my  practice.
plantar fasciitis can also be  known as a heel spur, although they are not strictly the same.
normal  radiographic differences between the adult and pediatric cervical spine there are several normal anatomical differences between the adult and the  pediatric cervical spine.
bbc: is there a historical doctor that you strive to  emulate?
above all, healing is a special encounter between two spirits.
subscribe today archivesnews current issue previous issues previous polls advertisingadvertiser resource center marketing resource center editorialeditorial resource center just for studentsacupuncture schools free positions wanted posting where to practice?
seeing your massage clients through a new lens i've worked with people young and old with complex medical conditions since  1979 when i began my career as an occupational therapist.
our wonder at  and reverence for the human body and all of its systems grew by the hour.
bbc: your blue poppy press bio says that your main passion is to help people who are suffering.
no, but it is incomplete.
in order to make time for writing, speaking and  traveling, do you have to pick and choose the cases you take on?
this is just the first step.
the death of the cce cartel after several  organizations testified in favor of the cce being renewed as the accrediting  agency for chiropractic colleges, some of those organizations issued  less-than-accurate communications implying that the cce was victorious in its  effort.
the abcs of tcm & acupuncture herbs & botanicals vitamins, minerals and dietary supplements media guideacupuncture today media guide member servicesclassified advertising acupuncture calendar acupuncture directory discussion forum reader servicesreceive
expanding your massage therapy practice an e-mail  survey conducted in december 2011 found that many massage therapists are  missing out some potential revenue streams by not offering any additional  products or services to their clients.
but serious issues still remain ...
it is essentially different from our indo-european languages.
if chinese medicine  is to become a real medical profession in the western world, we must follow the  rules of medical ethics.
i have never seen any of my chinese teachers prescribe ready-made pills to a patient, yet some formulas taste just as bitter to the chinese!
they find it difficult to establish a diagnosis - to "think chinese."
chiropractic around  the world: wfc quarterly country reports
to understand the fundamental theories we think we already know (such as yin and yang, the five phases,qi, the three treasures and the five spirits), one needs an in-depth knowledge of both chinese culture and the chinese way of thinking.
it is essentially  different from our indo-european languages.
in  spite of all our good will and sincerity, there are many misunderstandings.
on the other hand, we should remain very humble  when faced with a spectacular result.
ultimately,  the problem lies elsewhere.
significantly improving a patient's life is always a rewarding experience.
phs: i don't actually travel or do conferences a lot, and writing is a long-term effort that leaves me enough time for clinical practice, so i don't have to be selective, but i do prefer patients who live near my practice.
bbc: what do you want to achieve most as a writer, teacher  and healer?
staffing issues abound.
bbc: what is your opinion of the various forms of herbs on the market?
since both the recognition of chinese medicine in europe and an md/phd track in the u.s. are hot topics, it would be fitting for us to focus on the quality of existing training courses.
integrating extremity analysis and adjusting into your patient  protocols can make you a more skilled practitioner.
it has nothing to do with the original dynamic and universal chinese vision, which was based upon perception and movement.
phs: i can speak for europeans and americans, and there is  no major gap between them.
how can we not admire the wisdom of sun si miao, the erudition of li shi zhen, the creativity of zhang jie bin, the clinical skill of ye tian shi, the humanism of xu da chun, the knowledge of he men yao, and so many others?
news in brief western  states announces new degree program; fcp acknowledges top two corporate  sponsors.
not always possible; ditch the philosophy except for its historical  significance.
dynamicchiropractic.ca dcpracticeinsights.com massagetoday.com nutritionalwellness.com naturopathydigest.com chiropracticresearchreview.com spatherapy.com
phs: i can speak for europeans and americans, and there is no major gap between them.
all the  good practitioners i've seen, without exception, prescribe decoctions.
it goes something like this.
re-framing the idea of referring new clients to  other lmt's recently, i called a licensed massage therapist to find out  about the possibility of getting a session.
you have to understand that for at  least 2,500 years, chinese medicine relied on written transmission.
archives news current issue previous issues previous polls advertising advertiser resource center marketing resource center editorial
all the  "miracle cures" performed by chinese medicine i've witnessed were  from decoctions.
pain non-specific low back pain is one of the  most common muscular-skeletal issues reported by patients/clients seeking pain  relief.
if we wish to become a real profession, we should stay on the right  track and do what must be done to succeed.
it is with great pleasure that i present  to you a few words from philippe sionneau.
careful coding: with or without myelopathy clinicians must be  on their toes when it comes to the spelling, pronunciation and definition of  different anatomical and health care terms.
i pay close attention to my failures because, in trying to understand what went wrong, they help me to improve.
you have to understand that for at least 2,500 years, chinese medicine relied on written transmission.
for the next few decades, our attention should be on quality rather than quantity.
this rigidity dictates an intellectual approach which leads to a  fragmented perspective.
in order to promote the practice of chinese medicine, it  would be much better to have a handful of well-trained, effective practitioners  than thousands of superficially-trained, mediocre ones.
imagine my surprise when i discovered he had signed up for the pulse of oriental medicine's e-zine!
i  pay close attention to my failures because, in trying to understand what went  wrong, they help me to improve.
as students, we were feeling  "new" things, literally and figuratively, every day.
which is right for you?
if i liked her work, i told her,  i'd be interested in working with her as my regular lmt.
what misconceptions do you find yourself clearing up again and again?
it is a very demanding profession - to such an extent that i thank god each time a patient improves.
brian benjamin carter (bbc): many cm practitioners in the  west have been trained from secondary sources (translations).
right now, as you are reading this column you are  likely adding inflection to my words and possibly imagining what i look like  speaking based on the photograph above – one that is admittedly a few  years old.
in order to promote the practice of chinese medicine, it would be much better to have a handful of well-trained, effective practitioners than thousands of superficially-trained, mediocre ones.
this is not a tragedy ... on the contrary, it is a fantastic opportunity!
ultimately, the problem lies elsewhere.
these pills and tinctures actually do give at least 40% noticeable results ·
the first thing she  said was that she wasn't doing massage now.
paging dr. frankenstein "upper cervical  techniques are considered experimental or investigational because current  scientific evidence has not shown it to be safe, scientifically plausible, or  effective.
that is my favorite part of chinese  medicine!
massage  therapy reduces low back
how can we not look up to someone like zhang ji, who invented "scientific" chinese medicine?
perhaps our massage  school education did not include how to successfully deal with fibromyalgia.
in closing  out a busy 2011, the california massage therapy council (camtc) honored  california state senator lou correa with its legislator of the year award at  the final 2011 board of directors meeting.
and there's no  hope for a practitioner to become aware of the huge difference between these  pills and customized decoctions prescribed at therapeutic dosages.
chinese medicine was built upon the major chinese  trends of thought, which see the world quite differently than we do.
i  prescribe customized raw herb formulas in my own clinical practice.
we must never forget  that this is really about people's health.
the print publication update your mailing address other linksabout us contact us meet the staff news updatesubscribe unsubscribe update e-mail current issue deals & eventssubscribe unsubscribe current issue to your healthsubscribe unsubscribe update e-mail current issue archives policiesprivacy policy user agreement other mpa media
the next best  thing to being there
patient follow-up is one of them.
do you think patent formulas (tinctures and pills) are better than  nothing?
healing people involves taking their care seriously, following their  progress attentively and taking the problem in hand; it has nothing to do with  seeing them once and then only being in touch by telephone.
bbc: historically, quite unique traditions of cm developed in various asian nations.
this is a huge obstacle for those of us who are teachers, writers and translators.
what kind of case are you more likely to get excited about versus refer out?
in the normal aging process, the decline in sex hormone  levels and number of functioning nerve endings in the genitalia region often  contribute to a reduction in sex drive, arousal capabilities, climax and  intensity of pleasure-full sensations.
most practitioners approach chinese medicine far too mechanically.
of course,  everyone with a spine and a functioning nerve system needs chiropractic care.
for the next few decades, our attention should be on quality  rather than quantity.
equalizing  the pressure cardiovascular disease does not happen overnight.
science has proven  that any kind of medical intervention, even placebo, induces a 40% improvement.
massage therapy is recognized in clinical practice as an effective  treatment.
sitestoyourhealth.com chiroweb.com chirofind.com dynamicchiropractic.com
natural support for sexual health: effective herbal  supplements
while we might be exceptional at caring for  others, many massage therapists put themselves last when it comes to their own  self-care.
wibb exclusive: who runs the show?
phs: like many others, my mission is to transmit a more traditional vision of chinese medicine.
get optimal energy with nutritional self care
and this is fascinating.
e-mail to a friend | printer friendly version | pdf  version acupuncture today september, 2002, vol. 03, issue 09    share | an interview with philippe sionneau
is there a particular patient you can think of whose healing has meant more to you than any other?
we are at the beginning.
bbc: then is our actual practice of chinese medicine wrong?
there are always more translations, and their quality is improving.
i don't think learning from  translations is a major drawback as long as the translations are consistent.
all the good practitioners i've seen, without exception, prescribe decoctions.
it is a  progression that evolves over decades and genetic pre-disposition can  accelerate this progression dramatically.
to  understand the fundamental theories we think we already know (such as yin and  yang, the five phases,qi, the three treasures and the five spirits),  one needs an in-depth knowledge of both chinese culture and the chinese way of  thinking.
this is a brief review of the main radiographic  features that one should be aware of in order to avoid confusing normal  differences with pathologic findings.
think outside the box and the spine over the years,  understanding and treating the extremities has moved to the forefront of my  practice.
to report inappropriate ads, click here.
this is the  traditonal way of practicing this art.
many prescribe formulas without ever being truly creative in the act of healing · but they are all enthusiastic, sincere and motivated, and this is why i foresee a fantastic future for our profession.
being  pioneers doesn't give us the right to act as we please.
the following reports are  reprinted with permission from the world federation of chiropractic's latest  quarterly world report (december 2011).
if chinese medicine is to become a real medical profession in the western world, we must follow the rules of medical ethics.
for example, how are european practitioners  different from american or australian practitioners?
this is a huge obstacle for those  of us who are teachers, writers and translators.
the planet would be a better place if every man, woman and child received  regular spinal adjustments.
treatment checklist for  plantar fasciitis, part 1 plantar fasciitis (pf) is inflammation of the  plantar fascia or arch tendon of the foot.
for instance, the way we understand yin and yang and the five phases  is very much influenced by the strictly-defined, rigid concepts of western  logic.
up to now, i have written rather technical, practical and clinical books.
hopefully authors and searchers are now moving closer and closer to the  original chinese sources.
for instance, the way we understand yin and yang and the five phases is very much influenced by the strictly-defined, rigid concepts of western logic.
how can we not admire the wisdom of sun si miao, the erudition of li  shi zhen, the creativity of zhang jie bin, the clinical skill of ye tian shi,  the humanism of xu da chun, the knowledge of he men yao, and so many others?
when you try to market  to everybody, that's called "blanket" marketing.
do you think patent formulas (tinctures and pills) are better than nothing?
challenging  sacred cows, round two i want to clear up something before i go  forward.
is there a particular patient you can  think of whose healing has meant more to you than any other?
chinese medicine was built upon the major chinese trends of thought, which see the world quite differently than we do.
click here for previous articles by brian carter, msci, lac.
conservative care beats  medication for neck pain a study published in the jan. 3, 2012 issue of  theannals of internal medicine suggests conservative care consisting  of either spinal manipulation or home exercise is more effective than  over-the-counter and prescription medication for relieving acute and subacute  neck pain.
we are the pioneer generation and we have everything to build.
this is not a  tragedy ... on the contrary, it is a fantastic opportunity!
the practitioner exerts his skill in his  modifications of the formula.
it has nothing to do with the original dynamic and  universal chinese vision, which was based upon perception and movement.
bbc: what do you want to achieve most as a writer, teacher and healer?
my concern as a healer is not only to relieve  patients of their illness, but also to help them understand the origin of their  suffering.
dealing with fibromyalgia
philippe h. sionneau (phs): here we're touching the heart of studying chinese medicine in the west.
would it  be helpful to know which muscles to double check that refer pain into the hip  and lateral thigh?
i prescribe customized raw herb formulas in my own clinical practice.
on the other hand, we should remain very humble when faced with a spectacular result.
it is a very demanding profession - to such an extent that i thank god  each time a patient improves.
i don't think learning from translations is a major drawback as long as the translations are consistent.
and there's no hope for a practitioner to become aware of the huge difference between these pills and customized decoctions prescribed at therapeutic dosages.
standard formulas rarely, if ever, fit the  complexity of the patients we see in practice.
phs: yet another delicate question!
practicing medicine is such a difficult art.
healing people involves taking their care seriously, following their progress attentively and taking the problem in hand; it has nothing to do with seeing them once and then only being in touch by telephone.
bbc: your blue poppy press bio says that your main passion  is to help people who are suffering.
we must never forget that this is really about people's health.
this rigidity dictates an intellectual approach which leads to a fragmented perspective.
it is estimated that  between two to four percent of the population are now suffering from  fibromyalgia, including irritable bowel syndrome and tmj.
what  misconceptions do you find yourself clearing up again and again?
i have never seen any of my chinese teachers prescribe  ready-made pills to a patient, yet some formulas taste just as bitter to the  chinese!
alternative health news impacting children: craniosacral therapy and  pediatrics working with children is an art as well as a science.
your  marketing for success when asked what clients they want to work with,  many massage therapists answer, "everybody."
many  prescribe formulas without ever being truly creative in the act of healing  · but they are all enthusiastic, sincere and motivated, and this is why  i foresee a fantastic future for our profession.
camtc honors ca state senator lou correa
my research is headed that way.
low-dosage pills were intended  for self-medication; they don't belong in professional practice.
we get letters & e-mail conservative care
giving a big thumbs up for healthy thumbs
practice what you preach and go  back to massage school for all of us, the massage school experience is  (or was) transformational in nature.
in order to make time for writing, speaking and traveling, do you have to pick and choose the cases you take on?
all the "miracle cures" performed by chinese medicine i've witnessed were from decoctions.
bbc: what is your opinion of the various forms of herbs on  the market?
the facts about fevers anything that suggest the slightest thing is wrong with a child will  cause concern in a parent.
in spite of all our good will and sincerity, there are many misunderstandings.
people are becoming far more proactive with  their health care and are looking to alternatives to heavy medications and a  costly doctor visit.
many terms have similar spelling  and pronunciation, and thus can be easily confused.
foods consumed by the healthiest  people, part 4: ikaria, greece the other day i read a couple of  nutrition articles in a chiropractic publication that covered topics i have  previously addressed in detail.
by brian carter, msci, lac philippe sionneau is one of the best-known authors and teachers of chinese medicine (cm) in the west.
how can we not  look up to someone like zhang ji, who invented "scientific" chinese  medicine?
being pioneers doesn't give us the right to act as we please.
it is the first self-comforting tool to be used, often seen thrust into  the mouth of a fetus in the womb.
my concern as a healer is not only to relieve patients of their illness, but also to help them understand the origin of their suffering.
i am much  more interested in the heart of chinese medicine than in its facade.
the practitioner exerts his skill in his modifications of the formula.
acupuncture calendar classified advertising industry news discussion forum needles, supplies & equipment herbs, nutrients, supplements seminars, education & services quick links news current issue previous issues author guidelines editorial calendar columnists acupuncture links faqs herbs & botanicals vitamins, minerals and dietary supplements newslettersto your health at news update e-mail newsletter
practicing medicine is such a difficult  art.
bbc: is there a historical doctor that you strive to emulate?
freeing the heart, part 2:
you have a successful practice and are turning away business.
bbc: how would you sell cm practitioners on the idea of  learning to create these customized herbal formulations (raw herb, powders)?
a massage protocol for peripheral neuropathy
hip and thigh pain: the  tensor fascia latae connection have you ever had a patient with hip and  lateral thigh pain that did not respond to your traditional treatment?
phs: like many others, my mission is to transmit a more  traditional vision of chinese medicine.
the essential notions of this medical art are conveyed through the language, and the chinese language is highly specific and foreign.
by far, it is the number one complaint of employers  and the reason i am most contacted for consulting.
bbc: historically, quite unique traditions of cm developed  in various asian nations.
if we wish to become a real profession, we should stay on the right track and do what must be done to succeed.
standard formulas rarely, if ever, fit the complexity of the patients we see in practice.
by brian carter, msci, lac philippe sionneau is one of the best-known authors and teachers of chinese  medicine (cm) in the west.
they find it  difficult to establish a diagnosis - to "think chinese."
what kind of  case are you more likely to get excited about versus refer out?
a fever, for example, is one of the primary reasons  parents will call their child's pediatrician.
my last article in the  october 2011 issue focused on diabetic peripheral neuropathy and i want to  stress the importance of reviewing that information before proceeding on to  this protocol.
above all, healing  is a special encounter between two spirits.
first, an esteemed colleague and visionary of our profession wrote to  me asking if i did not believe in science because of my comment, "while i  am not a fan of evidence-based medicine..." entrepreneur or  employee?
have you seen a difference between practitioners in  various non-asian countries?
these pills and tinctures actually do give at least 40% noticeable results  · however, i believe that the goal of medicine is to obtain better than  placebo results, or else we should just give our patients sugar pills!
science has proven that any kind of medical intervention, even placebo, induces a 40% improvement.
have you seen a difference between practitioners in various non-asian countries?
using  craniosacral therapy (cst) on a child can be especially gratifying as a  qualified cst practitioner can facilitate significant changes that can  positively improve the quality of a child's life.
important linkseditorial topics link to us acupuncture links
the  essential notions of this medical art are conveyed through the language, and  the chinese language is highly specific and foreign.
many people have left their mark and helped me grow.
it is an overuse injury causing heel  pain which may radiate forward into the foot.
since both the  recognition of chinese medicine in europe and an md/phd track in the u.s. are  hot topics, it would be fitting for us to focus on the quality of existing  training courses.
among his many books arethe treatment of modern  western medical diseases with chinese medicine(with bob flaws) and his  seven-volume series,the treatment of disease in chinese medicine (with  lu gang).
unlocking the secret to a thriving massage practice whether you own  a thriving massage practice, you just want to develop a base of recurring  customers, or you're just starting to get clients this article will reveal the  little known secret to have more joy from your work, get more clients.
up to now, i have written rather  technical, practical and clinical books.
bbc: how would you sell cm practitioners on the idea of learning to create these customized herbal formulations (raw herb, powders)?
we  are the pioneer generation and we have everything to build.
low-dosage pills were intended for self-medication; they don't belong in professional practice.
philippe h. sionneau (phs): here we're touching the heart  of studying chinese medicine in the west.
my  research is headed that way.
new rules for contemporary  chiropractic marketing hold off on the tar and feathers!
the history of chinese medicine's ideas transmitted through its great masters  is simply amazing.
most  practitioners approach chinese medicine far too mechanically.
the thumb is one of the most practical and necessary implements of the  body.