to the modern ayurvedist it seems irrelevant to  ponder the mysteries of consciousness or mythical imagery from a distant past.
until recently there was no discernable way back…until the emergence  in the early 1900’s of quantum physics… quantum mechanics one of the earliest and greatest fundamental discoveries of ayurveda was  the law of uniformity of nature or loka-purusa-samanya (cs sa. 5.1):  puruso’ yam lokasammitah---which followed from observations of the  intimate relationships between the micro- and macrocosms.
the two famous compendiums of ayurvedic medicine appeared, the caraka and sushruta samhitas (c. 2nd century ad).
this is of course precisely what you get with bullets, so if we get the same result with photons we can say they are particles.
another argument that it is in  fact the conscious observation of living beings that has collapsed the wave  function and brought the universe into existence.
this assumption is an error caused by the projection of our own modern mental processes into the very different mentality of the vedic rishis.
how did the ancient vedic rishis discover ultimate universal truths about reality without laboratories and scientific equipment?
a lengthy series of questions repeatedly seeking kasmin (by what) is steadfastly answered by the emphatic assertion yasmin (by that)—which is brahmin.
also for individuals of different  prakritis, the formulation would need to be individualized.
these  are very real solid objects and this odd behavior of particles is a very real  phenomenon.
a prevailing scientific paradigm determines not only what features of nature should be observed and studied but also which questions are even acceptable to even ask.
the term “paradigm” is used to describe the set of experiences, beliefs and values that affect the way an individual perceives reality and responds to that perception.
einstein proposed that not only radiation but light also delivers its energy in chunks.
minute observations of nature and its  phenomena have opened the doors to theories about gravitation, thermodynamics,  electricity, magnetism, and life itself.
in fact, the materialist emphasis on empirical validation of truth became the guiding principle of the scientific method which has survived to the present day.
this could imply that there must actually be something 'outside' the known universe to observe it as a whole and collapse its overall wave function.
this is precisely what occurred as the vedic period was drawing to a close approximately 500 bc.
the true essence of our philosophical foundations has been lost almost in its entirety.
each individual photon, passing through the set up will place itself on the second wall in such a position that when enough have passed through they have collectively built up an interference pattern, when there cannot possibly be any interference!
however, as soon as the second hole is opened they again immediately start to form an interference pattern.
it is the observation of the polarization of one to be, say, vertically polarized that instantaneously collapses both photons to that same vertical polarization.
so why did the mind of the ancient vedic rishi operate so differently from the mind of the ayurvedic healer who followed him a mere thousand years later?
the early vedic paradigm: the art of healing the initial phase of development of indian medicine can be traced back to india's indus river civilization which flourished from about 2700 to 1500 b.c.
now that this insidious paradigm has been established for more than a thousand years, we find ayurveda being propagated out into the western world where it [materialism] is strongest.
but if you leave the frequency the same but crank up the intensity, more electrons should come out (because there are more photons to hit them), but they won't come out any faster, because each individual photon still has the same energy.
we thought the meticulous case studies presented would have sufficed to get the project started, but now modern procedures demanded that direct action of the herbal preparation on the fibroid tumor in tissue culture must first be verified in a laboratory setting.
the five tanmatras appear in the procession  as the final immaterial element immediately preceding and creating the five  material gross elements.
now similarly with light waves, the pattern on the second wall would appear  as an interference pattern of alternate light and dark bands across the wall.
the most  important contribution of the medieval period to ayurveda came in the form of  the many nighantus (expanded commentaries) which were written during this time  in a noble attempt by the vaidyas of the time to rescue and arrange the  remnants of the surviving literature and knowledge.
until it is observed, it exists simultaneously in two or more places at the same time!
that the interface of the tanmatras and mahabhutas was an important and mysterious process is clear from its consideration in ancient vedic texts such as the brahmanda purana: mano rupeksu kodanda panchatanmatra sayaka “mind is the bow which launches the arrows as five tanmatras”
after several decades of consistently positive outcomes of hundreds of his patients and those of his many colleagues, in addition to the authoritative testimony of the ayurvedic texts, he decided to bring it to the attention to the modern world, which i facilitated.
and if the frequency is low enough, then none of the photons will have enough energy to knock an electron out of an atom.
there is an ayurvedic adage, ‘to ensure the longevity of a tree one  must maintain its roots’.
he explained this policy was  the nih’s way of focusing only on plants which, by their criteria, had  the most promise.
i will explain what i see to be this auspicious timing in this paper.
that language holds the key to deciphering what  appears at first to be cryptic and obtuse writings.
materialism matures and peaks but the crescendo of the undermining of the mind came in the  mid-seventeenth century with the elaboration of the dualistic philosophy of  rene descartes, which described a complete ontological distinction between the  perceived physical universe and the perceiving mind.
so if you use really  low-frequency light, you shouldn't get any electrons, no matter how high the  intensity is.
the wave would reach both holes at the same time and each hole would then act as a new source.
if a photon passes through a hole that does not have a detector, it not only knows if the other hole is open or not, it knows if the other hole is being observed!
a "paradigm shift" denotes a change in what a given  society accepts and includes in its understanding of reality.
the munduka upanishad  begins with a student’s question to his guru: “by what, o adorable  sir, having become known, all this is known?”
but thedetails of the photoelectric effect are completely different depending on whether light consists of particles or waves.
imagine an arrangement that records which hole a photon goes through but lets it pass on its way to the detector screen.
certainly, knowledge obtained through ritual trances, prayer, and revelation would be ridiculed by many and a medical strategy based on such knowledge adopted by few modern patients.
people began  gratifying their senses with no restraint and pleasure was asserted as the  highest good.
according to the theory, what is passing through the holes in a double-slit experiment is not a normal material wave at all, but is a 'probability wave'.
a thousand years after the  emergence of indian materialism, john locke would reformulate it into the  beginnings of modern empiricism, which again declared the only valid knowledge  humans can have is based upon sensory experience.
this directly  contradicts the orthodox vedic proclamations, brahma satyam jagan mithya  (brahman alone is real, the world is unreal) and sarvam khalvidam brahman (all  this that we see in the world is brahman).
in order to change a prevailing scientific paradigm as  entrenched as classical materialistic worldview, we need evidence powerful and  earth-shattering enough to create sufficient cognitive dissonance to admit the  possibility of another entirely different worldview.
furthermore,  it attempted to explain existence in terms of the four material elements (air,  fire, water and earth).
in other words, the particle does not have a definite location, but has a probability of being here or there, or somewhere else entirely.
this article is based on the conviction that our roots have been severed  and the traditional art of ayurvedic medicine is dying--both on the  subcontinent of india, the main trunk of the tree, and consequently overseas  where branches of this venerable tree are trying to grow.
higher-frequency photons have more energy, so they should make the electrons come flying out faster.
the scientific revolution which treasures its objective observations and experiments was unleashed and had no rival for the next two hundred years.
only the former was capable of consistent mathematical description and was gradually developed into the intricate mechanistic concept of reality: every phenomenon in the universe could eventually be explained in terms of natural laws governing the motion and collision of matter.
(einstein actually won the nobel prize for his work on the  photoelectric effect, not for his more famous theory of relativity)
when light hits electrons in the atoms of the metal’s surface, it can transfer enough energy to knock some of these electrons out of its atoms.
for example, our current scientific paradigm denies the possibility of time travel or non-local psychic phenomena, so therefore these concepts never even arise in the minds of most people to explain observed events.
texts commonly include a flow diagram of the 24 tattvas revealing the  procession of the creation from immaterial to material, from purusha (spirit)  to the panchamahabhutas (matter).
does not the prolific depth of ayurvedic medicine present a coherent holistic approach that warrants an effort to work the other way round?
the double-slit experiments still gives the same result using electrons as it does using photons; electrons also alter their behavior depending on whether or not they are being observed.
could we not utilize  so far inexplicable ayurvedic concepts such as the tridosha, ojas, ama, and  agni, to actively inspire the nature and direction of modern scientific  experiments?
so in the case of light being photon particles, the frequency of the light would make a difference in the photoelectric effect.
the ancients were  not at all concerned with documenting in literal and explicit language their  observations of the physical world for posterity as we do today.
along with the rest of human thought, the original instinctive  realized wisdom of ayurveda became eroded in favor of a more evidence-based,  measurement-verified, empirical method of knowledge.
towards the end of the vedic period  which flourished for two millennia this all-encompassing view of reality was  gradually undermined and eventually got turned on its head by a materialist  philosophy which denied any role of consciousness or the mind in the  fundamental fabric of reality.
higher-frequency photons have more  energy, so they should make the electrons come flying out faster.
he came up with a formula that agreed very closely  with experimental data, but the formula only made sense if he assumed that the  energy of a vibrating molecule was quantized--that is, it could only take on  certain discreet values in discreet steps.
twin pair photons are entangled in a state of identical  polarization but do not have any particular polarization unless and until one  of them is measured.
for modern  authors of ayurveda know nothing of this moment where consciousness acquires  the appearance of a material substance; where the microcosmic realm of spirit,  thought, and ideas are transformed into the mundane, solid, tangible  macroscopic realm of material objects.
historically, vedic healers, who clearly contemplated the relationship between mind and the material universe, always understood the role of the intuitive conscious mind to be preeminent.
interestingly, despite the lofty heights of human wisdom that was attained  by these pious and contemplative seers, this undermining of vedic spirituality  was achieved with remarkable success and ease.
the realm of the mind, in contrast, involved  primarily ideas and emotions which precluded strict mathematical treatment.
prior to measurement, the polarization of both photons is  identical but in a superposition state.
the effects are called constructive and destructive interference.
mathematically, ‘collapse’ means that the probability becomes ‘one’ for a single location and ‘zero’ for all others.
a prevailing scientific paradigm determines not only what features  of nature should be observed and studied but also which questions are even  acceptable to even ask.
now, with the same setup, imagine that instead of particles, that light travels as a wave.
we always see a photon at one hole or the other, never both at once, and now the pattern that builds up on the detector screen is exactly equivalent to the pattern for bullets, with no trace of interference.
by analogy, if we know of the existence of a lost treasure, but have not a single clue to its exact whereabouts, we could never find it; but if we have a clue, however enigmatic, left behind by the original owners, we can decipher its meaning, set out in the right direction and recover the long lost wealth.
in 1913 r.a. millikan in a series of extremely meticulous experiments proved that einstein's predictions about light being composed of photon particles were correct.
whereas the authority of empirical evidence carried little weight in ancient pre-vedic and vedic india, modern thought began to value the systematic, logical and cautious epistemology that first appeared as indian materialist thought.
now let’s see how the effect change would if we assume that light is made of particles.
quantum entanglement there is another aspect of quantum mechanics which has equally astonishing implications.
on the one hand there was the res extensa: the world of solid bodies extending into space and independent of human mental processes; on the other, the res cogitans, or the inner realm of the perceiving mind.
the answer to the latter question is  counterintuitive, breathtaking, and also repeated proven to be true.
the central role of the perceiving mind in the paradigm of quantum physics suggests a new philosophical outlook on the relationship between the mind and the universe.
muslim rule not only dramatically changed indian culture, literature, traditions, and religion but also impacted its system of medicine.
decrease the intensity (brightness), and you  should get fewer electrons, flying out more slowly; if the light is too faint,  you shouldn't get any electrons at all, no matter what frequency you're using.
in almost all modern textbooks detailing the philosophical origins of  ayurveda darshan, we find a few paragraphs outlining the samkhya philosophy.
these are very real solid objects and this odd behavior of particles is a very real phenomenon.
for modern authors of ayurveda know nothing of this moment where consciousness acquires the appearance of a material substance; where the microcosmic realm of spirit, thought, and ideas are transformed into the mundane, solid, tangible macroscopic realm of material objects.
the cosmology and realizations associated with this civilization were written down as mythico-religious sanskrit hymns in a quaternary literary achievement known as the four vedas.
as the middle ages  ended knowledge about natural phenomena was rapidly increasing.
history  clearly reveals that ayurveda though assaulted, weakened and changed throughout  this tumultuous millennium, preserved its philosophical roots.
concurrently, for its survival, ayurveda relinquished its remaining connection with its early vedic mythico-magical revealed wisdom.
it could begin, “in the beginning there  was the probability wave.
this obsession with cause and effect describes interactions only among material things, and has distanced us even further from including the mind or soul of conscious beings in the modern paradigm.
however, it just may be that the  time is right for these roots to re-grow and once again establish  ayurveda’s original connection to the absolute which for some time has  been broken.
does not  the prolific depth of ayurvedic medicine present a coherent holistic approach  that warrants an effort to work the other way round?
in my opinion, it is one of the most tragic problems of 21th century ayurvedic medicine that it feels compelled to solicit for legitimacy by only conducting “scientific” research that conforms to the parameters of western medicine.
like hinduism itself, ayurveda displays great flexibility and resilience which allowed it to adapt to the needs of the time.
however, to the logical reasoning mind, they have a very obscure meaning and doubtful validity.
the methodology was to separate what hitherto had been indivisible.
quantum mechanics shines its light on this mystifying boundary where we are learning that these two apparently distinct realities are truly one.
if light is a wave, then the energy contained in one of those waves should depend only on its amplitude--that is, on the intensity (brightness) of the light.
this leads to two irrefutable conclusions: one—the properties and behavior of a single member of a photon twin-pair is spontaneously connected to its twin.
it is as if each  individual photon 'knows' that both holes are open and gives that result.
it proves  beyond all possible doubt that light consists of waves.
perhaps the bizarre experimental results are due to the unusual properties  of photons themselves.
quantum mechanics shines its light on this mystifying boundary where  we are learning that these two apparently distinct realities are truly one.
the answer to the latter question is counterintuitive, breathtaking, and also repeated proven to be true.
but it was in our unbridled zeal to  use technology and look ever more closely at nature in a quest to discover the  smallest, most fundamental particle of matter that science inadvertently and  unwillingly stumbled upon the realm of quantum physics.
two-- that there is no physical reality to any physical  property until it is consciously observed.
we hear misguided advocates shouting at the top of their  lungs, the mantra of propagation of ayurveda.
these healers  integrated their deep knowledge of the local flora and mastery of healing  techniques with wisdom they gained by observing priests who specialized in  sacrificial rites and the use of efficacious incantations and ceremonies to  influence and control the cosmic forces.
furthermore, this ayurvedic medicine is designed to pass through the digestive processes of metabolic transformation rather than be applied to fibroid cells in a petry dish (which is essentially what was done).
the human being was described for the first time in terms of separate organs and systems.
everything that can be  apprehended is but one part of a single universal entity.
knowledge of reality was valid only through  direct perception, and not through inference or intuition.
in the brhadaranyaka upanishad the sage yajnavalkya declares “that reality, o gargi, has interpenetrated the whole universe.”
this could imply that there  must actually be something 'outside' the known universe to observe it as a  whole and collapse its overall wave function.
in this theory, an electron that is not being observed does not exist as a  particle at all, but has a wave-like property covering all the areas of  probability where it could be found.
it proves beyond all possible doubt that light consists of waves.
isaac newton’s discovery of the  universal laws of motion in the late seventeenth century single-handedly  solidified the materialist paradigm started by brhaspati and elaborated by  descartes.
but there is another far more  troubling consequence: modern ayurvedic physicians have lost their connection  to their original vedic roots.
twin pair photons do not  have any specific polarization or any property until one of them is consciously  observed.
either way, the light would carry energy, so it  would be able to knock electrons around.
throughout the early ad period and middle ages, there was a fragile thread still connected to the past which acknowledged atman and the non-material aspect of life.
muslim rule not only dramatically changed indian culture, literature,  traditions, and religion but also impacted its system of medicine.
furthermore, this  ayurvedic medicine is designed to pass through the digestive processes of  metabolic transformation rather than be applied to fibroid cells in a petry  dish (which is essentially what was done).
testimony to this is the kama sutra, a famous ancient treatise on  sexual practices, usually dated to the second century a.d. the spread of indian materialism led to the mindset that matter can be of  value in itself.
does the photon go through both holes at the same time?
isaac newton’s discovery of the universal laws of motion in the late seventeenth century single-handedly solidified the materialist paradigm started by brhaspati and elaborated by descartes.
once the electron is observed, the ‘wave function  collapses’ into a single location and the electron becomes a particle.
perhaps the time has come, thanks to quantum mechanics,  when we will no longer fear the mockery and disdain of the rational  materialists as we open our minds once again to the validity of the original  intuitive revelations and insights of ayurveda.
this was because, once initiated, essentially it became a wave that over time engulfed the entire world.
this constant came to be known as planck's constant, or h, and it has the value 6.62606957(29)×10−34 joule sec., an extremely small but important value.
with no detector at the  either hole, it will produce an interference pattern (wave), otherwise, with  detectors at either one or both holes, it will act as a particle.
the technical quantum mechanical term for this is that the electron is in a “superposition state”.
the theory seeks to explain how an entity such as a photon  or an electron, could 'travel as a wave but arrive as a particle'.
like hinduism  itself, ayurveda displays great flexibility and resilience which allowed it to  adapt to the needs of the time.
here’s why… when the experiment is set up as shown in the above diagram, with both slits open, the resulting interference pattern clearly shows that light behaves as a wave.
eventually, muslims from western asia not  only availed themselves through mutual trade of india’s considerable  natural riches, but began to brutally invade, conquer, loot, and annihilate its  people.
the project failed to proceed to clinical trials of  any kind.
the most important contribution of the medieval period to ayurveda came in the form of the many nighantus (expanded commentaries) which were written during this time in a noble attempt by the vaidyas of the time to rescue and arrange the remnants of the surviving literature and knowledge.
to the  logical reason of modern men revelation is a chimera, inspiration only a  selection of thoughts or words wrapped in emotion, intuition a swift and  obscure form of reasoning, insight a brilliant and perspicacious method of  guessing.
if we want those symbols of another age to speak to us once again we will need to accept a new, expanded paradigm of reality.
this incident exemplified how the elaborate procedures of western  reductionist science can project highly distorted conclusions, producing  “scientific” results that are essentially non-scientific.
nothing is real until it has been consciously observed!
one remaining  debate about the wave vs. particle nature of light was apparently finally  settled by isaac newton (1642-1727) who had authoritative arguments that light  was a stream of minute particles.
when we are not watching the holes, the photon  goes through both simultaneously, like a wave!
atoms can be raised to an excited state from which they quickly return to their ground state in two successive quantum jumps and in so doing, they release two photons.
only the former was capable of  consistent mathematical description and was gradually developed into the  intricate mechanistic concept of reality: every phenomenon in the universe  could eventually be explained in terms of natural laws governing the motion and  collision of matter.
when detectors are placed at the holes to record the passage of electrons  through each of the holes, the result is even more bizarre.
when we are not looking at the particle, the probability wave, of  even a single particle, is spread out and will pass through both slits at the  same time and arrive at the detector as a wave showing an interference pattern.
until the  polarization is actually measured, photons have no polarization.
the early vedic paradigm: the art of healing the  initial phase of development of indian medicine can be traced back to india's  indus river civilization which flourished from about 2700 to 1500 b.c.
scientists believed that the connection between any cause and effect could be known by discovering the natural laws which determined it.
until it is observed, it exists  simultaneously in two or more places at the same time!
the light’s frequency (color), should make no difference.
therefore, one consequence of this incomplete understanding and transmission is that today there are sadly many more individuals who are certain of its invalidity than those who resonate with it.
the experiment has even been performed using atoms and even small molecules large enough to be individually photographed, again with the same result.
the tanmatras are the contribution of the conscious mind to material  reality.
planck actually didn't realize how revolutionary his work was at the  time but albert einstein did.
there are early vedic references to a figure known as brhaspati and his followers who were “unbelievers”.
their insights were eventually recorded in the vedas and the  essence of these realizations more cogently expressed in the upanishads.
it adapted by pragmatically assimilating the prevailing medical system of its conquerors, unani tibb medicine, into its dogma.
however, to the logical reasoning mind, they have a very  obscure meaning and doubtful validity.
imagine  for a moment these were water waves.
some locations will be more probable than others, such as the light areas in the interference pattern for example, and some will be less probable, such as in the dark areas.
however, it turns  out electrons have been used instead of photons, and they not only have mass,  they have an electric charge, and even move at different speeds depending on  circumstances, much like normal everyday objects.
the ‘root’ i wish to address is the ancient vedic philosophical foundation of our sacred ayurvedic tradition.
the higher mental processes of the ancient world were not dominantly intellectual (speculative-based) nor empiric (observation based), but rather intuitive.
these included arabia, syria, babylonia, and later with rome, greece, and africa.
now the photons behave like normal, everyday particles.
materialist thought dignified the physical world and began to bring authority to the natural sciences.
this is where the word 'weird'  will no doubt occur to you.
the project failed to proceed to clinical trials of any kind.
measurement of one of the separated pairs instantaneously collapses both photons to the same polarization.
on the contrary in orthodox vedanta  since brahman is all-encompassing, as an observer of reality, man is regarded  as the mind of the universe observing itself.
quantum physics reinstated the human mind to the central position it had in the early vedic world concept.
waves would then spread out again from  each of the two holes, exactly in phase, and as the waves moved forward,  spreading as they go, they would eventually interfere with one another.
in  the realm of healthcare, it started insidiously in the late vedic period with  categorization and codification of disease entities.
we probably can’t recover ancient ayurvedic revelations thru primitive vedic mythico-religious hymns, sacrifices, rituals, etc. or through the intellectual mind.
conclusion thousands of years ago the ancient vedic priests and ayurvedic healers realized the fundamental truth that the entire universe is one, interconnected life interpenetrated by the ultimate reality which they named brahman.
our idea was to initially offer the preparation only to  patients not in any imminent danger, who had not responded to conventional  therapy and for whom there were no remaining options except major surgery.
einstein proposed that not only radiation but  light also delivers its energy in chunks.
(einstein actually won the nobel prize for his work on the photoelectric effect, not for his more famous theory of relativity)
with no detector at the either hole, it will produce an interference pattern (wave), otherwise, with detectors at either one or both holes, it will act as a particle.
perhaps the bizarre experimental results are due to the unusual properties of photons themselves.
strangely, we do not need to even place detectors at both holes; we get the same result by watching just one hole.
so why did the mind of the ancient vedic rishi operate so differently from  the mind of the ayurvedic healer who followed him a mere thousand years later?
unless  these ideas are appreciated, it is impossible to understand how the old rishis  arrived so early in human history at knowledge which, whether accepted or  denied, electrify and expand the horizons and admiration of even the most  steadfast modern intellectual.
the  cosmology and realizations associated with this civilization were written down  as mythico-religious sanskrit hymns in a quaternary literary achievement known  as the four vedas.
frequency and not intensity is the important factor.
quantum mechanics verifies the universal creative implications of the observer.
when we are not looking at the particle, the probability wave, of even a single particle, is spread out and will pass through both slits at the same time and arrive at the detector as a wave showing an interference pattern.
as bullets fired from a rifle.
what it suggests is that nothing is real until it has been consciously observed!
however, we will be required to leave aside the methods of modern intellectual scholarship for a while, as well as all our conditioned preferences and weltanschauung.
the priest-healer who served as a conduit between  universal and individual spirit was replaced by the either the gurukulum- or  institutionally-trained ayurvedic physician who now applied academic and  ethical standards.
when we try to look at the spread-out photon wave, it  collapses into a definite particle, but when we are not looking it keeps its  spread out wavy nature.
the illusion of maya is slowly dissolving as quantum mechanics leads us toward the integration of mind, matter, events, consciousness, thought and intuition into one ultimate source.
whereas if you use a high frequency, you should still knock out  some electrons even if the intensity is very low, i.e. very dim!
this has caused philosophers and some scientists to ponder the cosmological implications.
those uniquely human inner operations, our most transcendent, most brilliant, most incomprehensible processes, are our grandest and most powerful sources of knowledge.
he came up with a formula that agreed very closely with experimental data, but the formula only made sense if he assumed that the energy of a vibrating molecule was quantized--that is, it could only take on certain discreet values in discreet steps.
the nih lab director explained that  unless a “direct effect” effect could be demonstrated, not only  would the project be aborted, but that plant species would be ineligible  forever from further investigations in his lab.
ritual and mantra faded from the medical mindscape.
frequency and not intensity is the important  factor.
it is here, in the attempts to explain to movement from tanmatra to  mahabhuta that modern authors’ voices suddenly become silent.
the realm of the mind, in contrast, involved primarily ideas and emotions which precluded strict mathematical treatment.
as the tradition of ayurvedic medicine advances into the 21st, it  must recapture inner respect for its own wisdom not by inaugurating ayurvedic  schools in foreign lands or fighting for laws which permit the overseas sale of  medicines, but rather by revitalizing our connection with our roots, however  mystical they might be.
after all photons are massless ephemeral objects and  might have other hitherto undiscovered strange properties.
on the contrary in orthodox vedanta since brahman is all-encompassing, as an observer of reality, man is regarded as the mind of the universe observing itself.
perhaps  the most central vedic teaching is that everything including all human beings  are born from brahman which manifests its connection with us in the form of our  individual atman.
by the way, this entanglement even exists if two objects have a common interaction with a third object.
our idea was to initially offer the preparation only to patients not in any imminent danger, who had not responded to conventional therapy and for whom there were no remaining options except major surgery.
it may at first seem that the photoelectric effect would still occur no matter which view is correct.
essentially, brhaspati espoused an early form of naturalism, which vehemently rejected the existence of a spiritual realm and the eternal nature of reality.
how did the ancient vedic rishis discover  ultimate universal truths about reality without laboratories and scientific  equipment?
this is precisely what the copenhagen interpretation is telling us about reality.
einstein proposed that light consists  of little particles, or quanta, later named photons, each with an energy equal  to planck's constant times its frequency, e=hf.
the nih lab director explained that unless a “direct effect” effect could be demonstrated, not only would the project be aborted, but that plant species would be ineligible forever from further investigations in his lab.
according to  the theory, what is passing through the holes in a double-slit experiment is  not a normal material wave at all, but is a 'probability wave'.
the subject matter was  distinctly practical and material--primarily the addition of many medicinal  plants which were not mentioned in the earlier samhitas and treatises.
codification soon resulted in the emergence of eight “subspecialties” of ayurveda, including the subspecialty of psychiatry, which singled out the mind.
in my opinion, it is one of the most tragic problems of 21th century ayurvedic  medicine that it feels compelled to solicit for legitimacy by only conducting  “scientific” research that conforms to the parameters of western  medicine.
now if one  photon from a twin pair is measured and found to have vertical polarization,  its twin—though it could be many miles away or even in another  galaxy—will exhibit the same polarization, even though the second photon  could not have possibly received any information about the polarization of the  first photon.
on a slightly different note, there was also a decidedly hedonistic aspect to indian materialistic thought.
just as the small dots of opposite color nestled within each half of  the taoist “yin-yang” symbol remind us of the interdependent,  mutually-arising nature of opposites, the essence of materialism already  existed in vedic spiritualism.
scientists believed that the connection between any cause and effect could be  known by discovering the natural laws which determined it.
what's the photoelectric effect?
we hear misguided advocates shouting at the top of their lungs, the mantra of propagation of ayurveda.
the  sarangadhara samhita (c. 13th century a.d.) describes the use of opium,  mercuric oxides, and stresses the importance of physical examination and pulse  interpretation in diagnosis.
so, for  example, red light and ultraviolet light of the same intensity should knock out  the same number of electrons, and the maximum kinetic energy of both sets of  electrons should also be the same.
planck actually didn't realize how revolutionary his work was at the time but albert einstein did.
the currently accepted interpretation for quantum  weirdness concerns the nature of the wave that is passing through the  experiment.
essentially, brhaspati espoused an early form of naturalism, which vehemently  rejected the existence of a spiritual realm and the eternal nature of reality.
in 1887 heinrich hertz determined experimentally that when light shines on a metal surface, it’s surface emits electrons.
this article is based on the conviction that our roots have been severed and the traditional art of ayurvedic medicine is dying--both on the subcontinent of india, the main trunk of the tree, and consequently overseas where branches of this venerable tree are trying to grow.
in september 2011 there was even a preliminary report from the esteemed cern laboratory of an object—a muon neutrino—moving faster than the speed of light, which for 100 years has been held to be an immutable, unsurpassable constant (final confirmation may take several years).
this experiment has in fact been carried out many, many times, with the same results every time, and the results are nothing less than amazing.
the mind creates maya.
but if you leave the frequency the same but crank up the intensity, more  electrons should come out (because there are more photons to hit them), but  they won't come out any faster, because each individual photon still has the  same energy.
it could be called the tentative gospel according to quantum veda.
the tanmatras are the contribution of the conscious mind to material reality.
if the experiment, still with both holes open, is set up to fire individual  photons, so that only one photon at a time goes through the set up, we would  not expect the same interference pattern to build up; we would surely expect  that a single photon would only go through one hole or another, it cannot go  through both at the same time and create an interference pattern.
but in the vedic age this language was universal and  required no interpretation.
that language holds the key to deciphering what appears at first to be cryptic and obtuse writings.
our vedic predecessors held them to be the supreme means of arriving at truth.
and from there, it would be only a small step back to our ayurvedic roots.
measurement of one of the separated  pairs instantaneously collapses both photons to the same polarization.
dr. pandey explained that ayurvedic preparations such as this one did not work directly but rather required an interaction with the entire physiology (i.e immune, endocrine, nervous systems, etc) of the individual to be effective.
this leads to two irrefutable conclusions: one—the properties and behavior of a single member of a photon twin-pair  is spontaneously connected to its twin.
historically, light had been viewed by some as a particle rather than a  wave; newton, as we’ve said, thought of light this way.
this assumption is an error caused by the  projection of our own modern mental processes into the very different mentality  of the vedic rishis.
testimony to this is the kama sutra, a famous ancient treatise on sexual practices, usually dated to the second century a.d. the spread of indian materialism led to the mindset that matter can be of value in itself.
the  external world is a fabrication, a combining, not only of particles and waves,  but of realities.
in 1900,  max planck was working on the problem of how the radiation an object emits is  related to its temperature.
this  was in distinct contrast to the vedic viewpoint wherein mankind is whole and  not “outside” of anything.
“charakas” are thought by some to be the general name of the  wandering mendicants of this age who became expert in healing and who  contributed to the early theory and practice of ayurveda.
mechanism, in turn, logically leads to determinism which, thanks to newton, says that since all phenomena can be explained entirely through the behavior of matter with physical laws, then just as surely as a billiard ball struck by a cue ball with velocity x at a 45° angle will move in an opposite complementary 45° angle with velocity y, all phenomena are likewise completely determined by the properties of that matter and the operations of those natural laws.
our time is better spent memorizing plant genera and practical treatment  protocols.
but in the early 20th century, some physicists--einstein, for one—began to consider the particle view of light again.
if someone were to author a true epistemology of vedic wisdom, it would indeed place the concepts underlying the ancient words dristi, sruti, smriti, shravana, nididhyasana at the center of the analysis.
the medieval period of indian history extending from the fifth through the  fifteenth century a.d. began as a time when india entered into trade contracts  with many sovereign foreign lands.
the swetaswatara upanishad gave us a clue and told us the supreme  reality can be grasped through a “pure heart, purified intellect, and  purified mind” (hrida manisha manasa abhiclipto).
but whatever the validity or the lack of it attached to these ancient methods of knowing, only by somehow reproducing the ancient vedic process and re-discovering its original starting-point can we recover also what, to the intellect, is hopelessly obscure in ayurveda and vedanta.
if the experiment, still with both holes open, is set up to fire individual photons, so that only one photon at a time goes through the set up, we would not expect the same interference pattern to build up; we would surely expect that a single photon would only go through one hole or another, it cannot go through both at the same time and create an interference pattern.
twin pair photons do not have any specific polarization or any property until one of them is consciously observed.
when detectors are placed at the holes to record the passage of electrons through each of the holes, the result is even more bizarre.
but if light is made of particles what about the double-slit experiment?
we always see a photon at one hole or the other,  never both at once, and now the pattern that builds up on the detector screen  is exactly equivalent to the pattern for bullets, with no trace of  interference.
imagine an arrangement that records which hole a photon goes through but  lets it pass on its way to the detector screen.
depending on which  experiment you choose to do, you can prove light to be either particles  (photoelectric experiment) or waves (double-slit experiment).
a lengthy series of  questions repeatedly seeking kasmin (by what) is steadfastly answered by the  emphatic assertion yasmin (by that)—which is brahmin.
this was because, once  initiated, essentially it became a wave that over time engulfed the entire  world.
the five tanmatras appear in the procession as the final immaterial element immediately preceding and creating the five material gross elements.
we needed quantum  mechanics to be discovered by humankind to shake off our materialist paradigm  and re-mind us of this.
it is here, in the attempts to explain to movement from tanmatra to mahabhuta that modern authors’ voices suddenly become silent.
could we not utilize so far inexplicable ayurvedic concepts such as the tridosha, ojas, ama, and agni, to actively inspire the nature and direction of modern scientific experiments?
and if the frequency is low enough, then none of the photons will  have enough energy to knock an electron out of an atom.
first we need to briefly understand the work of max planck...
firstly, light travels in a straight line, like bullets, unless interrupted by some intervening object; second, light reflects off a mirror at the exact angle at which it hits; thirdly when light bounces off an irregular surface it scatters widely; and finally light travels through the vacuum of space from the sun to reach earth.
but to the vedic mind they were not only real and familiar, but valid  processes of knowing.
quantum mechanics and the tanmatras
this belief that natural laws drive every phenomenon has led to modern scientist striving to find the ultimate single universal law or energy behind everything, the so-called unified “theory of everything” which has eluded scientists.
decrease the intensity (brightness), and you should get fewer electrons, flying out more slowly; if the light is too faint, you shouldn't get any electrons at all, no matter what frequency you're using.
certainly, knowledge obtained through ritual trances, prayer, and  revelation would be ridiculed by many and a medical strategy based on such  knowledge adopted by few modern patients.
the effects are called constructive and destructive  interference.
the ancients were not at all concerned with documenting in literal and explicit language their observations of the physical world for posterity as we do today.
materialist thought dignified the physical world and began to  bring authority to the natural sciences.
this philosophy denied the existence of the soul or  anything immaterial and put forward that the world itself and all material  objects of the world are real.
the human being was  described for the first time in terms of separate organs and systems.
paradigms are shaped both by the society’s cultural ideological background and by the presuppositions in the historical foreground.
everything that can be apprehended is but one part of a single universal entity.
it could begin, “in the beginning there was the probability wave.
but if we view our tradition as a  living organism and listen intently to the deeper layers of its pulse, it  becomes evident that the original vitality of the system is waning, though this  underlying condition may be masked by a steroidal blush on the surface.
an individual photon passing through one of the holes is not only aware of the other hole, but also aware of whether or not it is open!
the particle theory  of light persisted for more than100 years until thomas young’s famous  double-slit experiment which he conducted in 1803.
it is as if each individual photon 'knows' that both holes are open and gives that result.
after firing a few rounds you would  expect to see on the second wall two clusters of hits in line with the two  holes.
it may at first seem that the photoelectric effect would still occur no  matter which view is correct.
this observation raises a number of significant  problems!
materialism matures and peaks but the crescendo of the undermining of the mind came in the mid-seventeenth century with the elaboration of the dualistic philosophy of rene descartes, which described a complete ontological distinction between the perceived physical universe and the perceiving mind.
and from there, it would  be only a small step back to our ayurvedic roots.
this  constant came to be known as planck's constant, or h, and it has the value  6.62606957(29)×10−34 joule sec., an extremely small but important  value.
how does it “know” where to go on the detector to form part of the overall pattern?
we needed quantum mechanics to be discovered by humankind to shake off our materialist paradigm and re-mind us of this.
now if that was all there was to it we could say ‘case closed’ and conclude that light travels as a wave; but there is much more to it than that.
the swetaswatara upanishad gave us a clue and told us the supreme reality can be grasped through a “pure heart, purified intellect, and purified mind” (hrida manisha manasa abhiclipto).
the medieval period of indian history extending from the fifth through the fifteenth century a.d. began as a time when india entered into trade contracts with many sovereign foreign lands.
waves require a medium in which to propagate, particles do not; therefore light cannot be a wave and must be corpuscular.
to make a connection with that ancient culture, we  do not necessarily need to live the exact same inner experience or speak the  same ancient language.
einstein used the photoelectric effect to understand whether light consists of particles or waves.
a  man’s organs, and the man himself, became more and more defined by his  separate identity, which he vigorously preserved and protected as never before.
if we wait until enough (millions) individual photons have passed  through to build up a pattern, we do not get two bullet-like clusters opposite  the two holes, we get the wave-like interference pattern!
the theory seeks to explain how an entity such as a photon or an electron, could 'travel as a wave but arrive as a particle'.
what’s more, we do not necessarily need to retrace the exact original  steps to arrive at the destination; we may take an entirely different path to  get back there.
these healers integrated their deep knowledge of the local flora and mastery of healing techniques with wisdom they gained by observing priests who specialized in sacrificial rites and the use of efficacious incantations and ceremonies to influence and control the cosmic forces.
but there is another far more troubling consequence: modern ayurvedic physicians have lost their connection to their original vedic roots.
it paints the image of a material  world upon the canvas of brahman, the unfathomable eternal substratum of  everything.
to illustrate the absurdity that can spring from this situation, i would like to relate an incident that occurred at the national institutes of health in 1991.
a "paradigm shift" denotes a change in what a given society accepts and includes in its understanding of reality.
so in the case of  light being photon particles, the frequency of the light would make a  difference in the photoelectric effect.
however more and more emphasis was placed on dietary, herbo-mineral medicines, and other physical remedies to promote health.
as the middle ages ended knowledge about natural phenomena was rapidly increasing.
however, it just may be that the time is right for these roots to re-grow and once again establish ayurveda’s original connection to the absolute which for some time has been broken.
therefore, one consequence  of this incomplete understanding and transmission is that today there are sadly  many more individuals who are certain of its invalidity than those who resonate  with it.
traces of materialism appear even in the earliest recordings of indian  thought.
they are collections of prayers and hymns in an impressionistic language whose multi-dimensions are largely ignored today.
but whatever the validity or the lack of it attached to these ancient  methods of knowing, only by somehow reproducing the ancient vedic process and  re-discovering its original starting-point
after all photons are massless ephemeral objects and might have other hitherto undiscovered strange properties.
quantum physics reinstated the human mind to the central position it  had in the early vedic world concept.
knowledge of reality was valid only through direct perception, and not through inference or intuition.
through insight, revelation and intuition they arrived at the truth that consciousness and matter are not fundamentally distinct but rather are two complementary aspects of one reality.
this applies not only to photons but to any two objects that have ever interacted; they are eternally entangled and will have mutual influence on each other’s behavior.
the return of the mind these next two paragraphs are the hardest to grasp in this entire article  so prepare yourself.
if we take this to be true,  then the universe only exists because we are looking at it.
once also  counter-intuitive, we no longer believe that the sun and planets revolve around  the earth or that the earth is flat.
traces of materialism appear even in the earliest recordings of indian thought.
this philosophy denied the existence of the soul or anything immaterial and put forward that the world itself and all material objects of the world are real.
however,  as soon as the second hole is opened they again immediately start to form an  interference pattern.
it is the observation of the polarization of one to be, say,  vertically polarized that instantaneously collapses both photons to that same  vertical polarization.
towards the end of the vedic period which flourished for two millennia this all-encompassing view of reality was gradually undermined and eventually got turned on its head by a materialist philosophy which denied any role of consciousness or the mind in the fundamental fabric of reality.
in order to change a prevailing scientific paradigm as entrenched as classical materialistic worldview, we need evidence powerful and earth-shattering enough to create sufficient cognitive dissonance to admit the possibility of another entirely different worldview.
the illusion of maya is slowly dissolving as quantum mechanics  leads us toward the integration of mind, matter, events, consciousness, thought  and intuition into one ultimate source.
each  individual photon, passing through the set up will place itself on the second  wall in such a position that when enough have passed through they have  collectively built up an interference pattern, when there cannot possibly be  any interference!
it says that the same universal laws which operate on the largest scales of nature are identical with those at the most minute scales.
after firing a few rounds you would expect to see on the second wall two clusters of hits in line with the two holes.
revelation, inspiration, intuition, and instinctive insight were the foremost processes of ancient enquiry.
quantum mechanics, specifically its entanglement feature, gives scientific credence to the interconnection between brahmin and all life forms.
we’ve stated it above but it bears repeating.
what the double-slit experiment demonstrates  is this: each photon starts out as a single photon - a particle - and arrives  at the detector on the second wall as a particle, but appears to have gone  through both holes at once, interfered with itself, and worked out just where  to place itself on the detector to make its own small contribution to the  overall interference pattern.
when we try to look at the spread-out photon wave, it collapses into a definite particle, but when we are not looking it keeps its spread out wavy nature.
it paints the image of a material world upon the canvas of brahman, the unfathomable eternal substratum of everything.
to illustrate the absurdity that can spring from this situation, i  would like to relate an incident that occurred at the national institutes of  health in 1991.
at best it has become little  more than a collection of unanimated slokas.
in formulating his  metaphysics descartes had split reality into two separate realms.
a thousand years after the emergence of indian materialism, john locke would reformulate it into the beginnings of modern empiricism, which again declared the only valid knowledge humans can have is based upon sensory experience.
but in the early  20th century, some physicists--einstein, for one—began to consider the  particle view of light again.
particles, on the other hand, would produce two separate areas of light (where the bullets would hit).
the ‘root’ i wish to address is the  ancient vedic philosophical foundation of our sacred ayurvedic tradition.
some locations will be more probable  than others, such as the light areas in the interference pattern for example,  and some will be less probable, such as in the dark areas.
584 milltown road brewster, ny 10509 (845) 278-8700 scott gerson m.d., ph.d. (ayurveda) introduction: back to our roots there is an ayurvedic adage, ‘to ensure the longevity of a tree one must maintain its roots’.
this is where the word 'weird' will no doubt occur to you.
if we wait until enough (millions) individual photons have passed through to build up a pattern, we do not get two bullet-like clusters opposite the two holes, we get the wave-like interference pattern!
the subject matter was distinctly practical and material--primarily the addition of many medicinal plants which were not mentioned in the earlier samhitas and treatises.
but in the vedic age this language was universal and required no interpretation.
to no one’s surprise, when the assays for direct effect were conducted nothing happened.
those uniquely human inner operations, our most transcendent, most  brilliant, most incomprehensible processes, are our grandest and most powerful  sources of knowledge.
the eminent ayurvedic physician dr. v.n. pandey and i were invited there to present evidence for the efficacy of a certain herbal preparation in reducing the size of uterine fibroid tumors of small to medium size.
through insight, revelation and  intuition they arrived at the truth that consciousness and matter are not  fundamentally distinct but rather are two complementary aspects of one reality.
another argument that it is in fact the conscious observation of living beings that has collapsed the wave function and brought the universe into existence.
just as the small dots of opposite color nestled within each half of the taoist “yin-yang” symbol remind us of the interdependent, mutually-arising nature of opposites, the essence of materialism already existed in vedic spiritualism.
in the realm of healthcare, it started insidiously in the late vedic period with categorization and codification of disease entities.
yet the possibility of life on other galaxies is an accepted question.
most western ayurvedic “practitioners” and patients  despite their best intentions are limited by their conditioned minds in their  ability to penetrate the true essence of ayurveda.
the energy emitted was found to be  proportional to the frequency of vibration, and it seemed to come in little  "chunks" of the frequency multiplied by a certain constant.
the currently accepted interpretation for quantum weirdness concerns the nature of the wave that is passing through the experiment.
waves require a medium in which to propagate, particles do not;  therefore light cannot be a wave and must be corpuscular.
must we always use the  scientific method of western science before we sanctify meditation, herbal  medicine, marmas or other aspects of ayurvedic medicine?
either way, the light would carry energy, so it would be able to knock electrons around.
their concern was the vast movement of consciousness and the oneness of micro and macrocosm; and the eternal character of the cosmos is what adds an ageless quality to the language of their hymns.
the  central role of the perceiving mind in the paradigm of quantum physics suggests  a new philosophical outlook on the relationship between the mind and the  universe.
the vedic “svasthya-healer-social body-subjective intuitive” paradigm became metamorphosed into “disease-curer-individual body-scientific objectivity” of western or modern medicine.
we probably can’t recover ancient ayurvedic revelations  thru primitive vedic mythico-religious hymns, sacrifices, rituals, etc. or  through the intellectual mind.
atoms can be raised to an excited state from which they  quickly return to their ground state in two successive quantum jumps and in so  doing, they release two photons.
this paper is also a call for ayurveda to regain its self-respect.
this understanding began to fade.
the priest-healer who served as a conduit between universal and individual spirit was replaced by the either the gurukulum- or institutionally-trained ayurvedic physician who now applied academic and ethical standards.
consequently, it was removed from the mainstream of scientific thought for two  centuries.
a paradigm is the conceptual framework and limits within which human thought  and ideas evolve.
it claimed the exclusive epistemological authority of perception.
this is precisely  what occurred as the vedic period was drawing to a close approximately 500 bc.
the munduka upanishad begins with a student’s question to his guru: “by what, o adorable sir, having become known, all this is known?”
historically, vedic healers, who clearly contemplated the relationship  between mind and the material universe, always understood the role of the  intuitive conscious mind to be preeminent.
can we recover also what, to the  intellect, is hopelessly obscure in ayurveda and vedanta.
ayurveda is considered an upaveda (“applied  knowledge”; upa-near; next to) of the latest of these, the atharva veda  (1000-1500 b.c.) and thus its teachings considered the highest possible  category of knowledge.
these two “twin photons” will fly  off in different directions but will always have the same polarization (i.e.  both vertical, both horizontal, etc.)
the higher mental processes of the ancient world were not  dominantly intellectual (speculative-based) nor empiric (observation based),  but rather intuitive.
imagine a wall with two holes in it, each the  same size and just large enough for the bullets to fit through, with a second  wall behind where the bullets will strike.
now if one photon from a twin pair is measured and found to have vertical polarization, its twin—though it could be many miles away or even in another galaxy—will exhibit the same polarization, even though the second photon could not have possibly received any information about the polarization of the first photon.
this is of course precisely what you get with bullets, so if we get the  same result with photons we can say they are particles.
the key concept of the theory, which forms a central part of the  copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics, is known as the 'collapse of  the wave function'.
firstly, light  travels in a straight line, like bullets, unless interrupted by some  intervening object; second, light reflects off a mirror at the exact angle at  which it hits; thirdly when light bounces off an irregular surface it scatters  widely; and finally light travels through the vacuum of space from the sun to  reach earth.
in other words,  the particle does not have a definite location, but has a probability of being  here or there, or somewhere else entirely.
a paradigm is the conceptual framework and limits within which human thought and ideas evolve.
the external world is a fabrication, a combining, not only of particles and waves, but of realities.
when we observe the electron by placing detectors at the slits, it is forced  into revealing its location which causes the probability wave to collapse into  a particle.
now if that was all there was to it  we could say ‘case closed’ and conclude that light travels as a  wave; but there is much more to it than that.
if the objects are indeterminate until one of them is measured, then the question becomes, "how can we account for an initially indefinite direction of polarization in twin #2 suddenly becoming definite in concert with twin #1 even though no physical interaction between them occurred, and which are sufficiently separated that there was not even sufficient time, if we take c, the speed of light to be a limit, for such an interaction to proceed from the first to the second object?"
but thedetails of the  photoelectric effect are completely different depending on whether light  consists of particles or waves.
but if we view our tradition as a living organism and listen intently to the deeper layers of its pulse, it becomes evident that the original vitality of the system is waning, though this underlying condition may be masked by a steroidal blush on the surface.
to the modern ayurvedist it seems irrelevant to ponder the mysteries of consciousness or mythical imagery from a distant past.
now the photons behave like  normal, everyday particles.
this belief that  natural laws drive every phenomenon has led to modern scientist striving to  find the ultimate single universal law or energy behind everything, the  so-called unified “theory of everything” which has eluded  scientists.
it says that the same  universal laws which operate on the largest scales of nature are identical with  those at the most minute scales.
if we take this to be true, then the universe only exists because we are looking at it.
an individual photon passing through one of the holes is  not only aware of the other hole, but also aware of whether or not it is open!
here’s why… when the experiment is set up as shown in  the above diagram, with both slits open, the resulting interference pattern  clearly shows that light behaves as a wave.
this observation raises a number of significant problems!
thus was quantum mechanics born from this conundrum and from the ensuing research of einstein, planck, de broglie, bohr, schrödinger, bell and others who attempted to explain how electromagnetic radiation can exhibit both particle-like and wave-like behavior.
the term “paradigm” is used to describe the set of experiences,  beliefs and values that affect the way an individual perceives reality and  responds to that perception.
we could try peeking, to see which hole the photon goes through, and to see if it goes through both holes at once, or if half a photon goes through each hole.
codification soon resulted in the  emergence of eight “subspecialties” of ayurveda, including the  subspecialty of psychiatry, which singled out the mind.
until recently there was no discernable way back…until the emergence in the early 1900’s of quantum physics… quantum mechanics one of the earliest and greatest fundamental discoveries of ayurveda was the law of uniformity of nature or loka-purusa-samanya (cs sa. 5.1): puruso’ yam lokasammitah---which followed from observations of the intimate relationships between the micro- and macrocosms.
by analogy, if we know of the existence of a lost treasure, but have not a  single clue to its exact whereabouts, we could never find it; but if we have a  clue, however enigmatic, left behind by the original owners, we can decipher  its meaning, set out in the right direction and recover the long lost wealth.
but if you’ve  read this far maybe you’ve already guessed: this is not quite the end of  the story, though it took another eighty years after thomas’s double-slit  extravaganza.
now keeping the intensity (brightness) of the light the same but using a higher frequency (color) should increase the maximum kinetic energy of the emitted electrons.
in the  brhadaranyaka upanishad the sage yajnavalkya declares “that reality, o  gargi, has interpenetrated the whole universe.”
revelation, inspiration, intuition, and  instinctive insight were the foremost processes of ancient enquiry.
strangely, we do not need to even place detectors at both holes;  we get the same result by watching just one hole.
here were some of his points.
history clearly reveals that ayurveda though assaulted, weakened and changed throughout this tumultuous millennium, preserved its philosophical roots.
one remaining debate about the wave vs. particle nature of light was apparently finally settled by isaac newton (1642-1727) who had authoritative arguments that light was a stream of minute particles.
the extraordinary fact that the ejection energy was  independent of the total energy of illumination (i.e. intensity) showed that  the effect must be due to a particle which gave all of its energy to the  electron!
concurrently, for its survival, ayurveda relinquished its remaining  connection with its early vedic mythico-magical revealed wisdom.
dr. pandey explained that ayurvedic  preparations such as this one did not work directly but rather required an  interaction with the entire physiology (i.e immune, endocrine, nervous systems,  etc) of the individual to be effective.
in 1913 r.a. millikan in a series of extremely meticulous experiments  proved that einstein's predictions about light being composed of photon  particles were correct.
the later vedic paradigm: the science of healing
however, we will be required to leave aside the methods  of modern intellectual scholarship for a while, as well as all our conditioned  preferences and weltanschauung.
we could try peeking, to see which hole the photon goes through, and to see if  it goes through both holes at once, or if half a photon goes through each hole.
our precious roots have been severed.
waves would then spread out again from each of the two holes, exactly in phase, and as the waves moved forward, spreading as they go, they would eventually interfere with one another.
the two famous  compendiums of ayurvedic medicine appeared, the caraka and sushruta samhitas  (c. 2nd century ad).
to the logical reason of modern men revelation is a chimera, inspiration only a selection of thoughts or words wrapped in emotion, intuition a swift and obscure form of reasoning, insight a brilliant and perspicacious method of guessing.
however, we must also bear  in mind that the vedas are not textbooks or user manuals.
how can a  single photon go through two holes at the same time?
though superficially familiar with terms like atman, brahman, agni, prana,  ojas, etc.
they are collections  of prayers and hymns in an impressionistic language whose multi-dimensions are  largely ignored today.
the technical quantum  mechanical term for this is that the electron is in a “superposition  state”.
mathematically, ‘collapse’ means that the probability becomes  ‘one’ for a single location and ‘zero’ for all others.
the key concept of the theory, which forms a central part of the copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics, is known as the 'collapse of the wave function'.
this was the all important change which represented the paradigm shift of the late vedic period.
the scientific revolution which treasures its objective observations  and experiments was unleashed and had no rival for the next two hundred years.
if we repeat the experiment, this time with only one hole open, the individual photons behave again like bullets and all cluster round a point on the detector screen directly behind the open hole, just as expected.
by the way, this  entanglement even exists if two objects have a common interaction with a third  object.
historically, light had been viewed by some as a particle rather than a wave; newton, as we’ve said, thought of light this way.
so if you use really low-frequency light, you shouldn't get any electrons, no matter how high the intensity is.
this article may  indeed seem off-base, written at a time when ayurvedic administrators in india  and around the world are celebrating major advances in the field, such as  increasing numbers of students, physicians, research papers, patients,  colleges, and hospitals, which all appear to reflect a resurging state of  ayurvedic medicine.
particles, on the other hand, would produce two separate areas of light (where  the bullets would hit).
to no one’s surprise, when the assays for direct effect were  conducted nothing happened.
this experiment has in fact been carried out many, many  times, with the same results every time, and the results are nothing less than  amazing.
summary: when we are watching the holes, we never catch the photon going through both at once--it will only go through one or the other, like particles.
in fact you can actually start an electric current in a circuit just by shining a light on a metal plate.
now similarly with light waves, the pattern on the second wall would appear as an interference pattern of alternate light and dark bands across the wall.
this was in distinct contrast to the vedic viewpoint wherein mankind is whole and not “outside” of anything.
paradigms are shaped both by the society’s  cultural ideological background and by the presuppositions in the historical  foreground.
we  thought the meticulous case studies presented would have sufficed to get the  project started, but now modern procedures demanded that direct action of the  herbal preparation on the fibroid tumor in tissue culture must first be  verified in a laboratory setting.
perhaps now a new non-denominational version of the bible could be re-written in light of the convergence of quantum-vedic wisdom outlined in this paper.
there are early vedic references to a figure  known as brhaspati and his followers who were “unbelievers”.
as a  reaction against the ascetic and meditative practices of the religiously devout  brahmins, indian materialism celebrated the pleasures of the body.
this obsession with cause and effect describes interactions only  among material things, and has distanced us even further from including the  mind or soul of conscious beings in the modern paradigm.
it adapted by pragmatically assimilating the  prevailing medical system of its conquerors, unani tibb medicine, into its  dogma.
where both waves are lifting the water  surface upward, we get an additive effect and a more pronounced crest; where  one wave is cresting and the other is troughing the two cancel out and the  water level is undisturbed.
if a photon passes through a  hole that does not have a detector, it not only knows if the other hole is open  or not, it knows if the other hole is being observed!
this directly contradicts the orthodox vedic proclamations, brahma satyam jagan mithya (brahman alone is real, the world is unreal) and sarvam khalvidam brahman (all this that we see in the world is brahman).
now that this insidious paradigm has been established for more than a  thousand years, we find ayurveda being propagated out into the western world  where it [materialism] is strongest.
what’s more, we do not necessarily need to retrace the exact original steps to arrive at the destination; we may take an entirely different path to get back there.
the rational modern mind, which derives its knowledge  either through intellectual reasoning or sensory observation, i.e. metaphysical  or scientific method, assumes that the sublime knowledge of the vedas must have  been the result of active metaphysical speculation emerging out of an attempt  to intellectualize and elevate the primitively imaginative and raw religious  experiences of the vedic rishis.
minute observations of nature and its phenomena have opened the doors to theories about gravitation, thermodynamics, electricity, magnetism, and life itself.
precisely because quantum mechanics leads  to irrefutably proven yet outrageously counter-intuitive and illogical  conclusions that it has perhaps perfectly prepared the world for the true  renaissance of ayurveda.
somehow the interaction of the observer with the experiment affects the observed result.
but if  light is made of particles what about the double-slit experiment?
the experiment has even been performed using atoms and even small molecules  large enough to be individually photographed, again with the same result.
in formulating his metaphysics descartes had split reality into two separate realms.
he explained this policy was the nih’s way of focusing only on plants which, by their criteria, had the most promise.
this article may indeed seem off-base, written at a time when ayurvedic administrators in india and around the world are celebrating major advances in the field, such as increasing numbers of students, physicians, research papers, patients, colleges, and hospitals, which all appear to reflect a resurging state of ayurvedic medicine.
the wave would reach both holes at the same time and each  hole would then act as a new source.
this theory elegantly explains the behavior of the particles in the double-slit  experiment.
these included arabia, syria, babylonia, and  later with rome, greece, and africa.
for example, our current scientific paradigm denies the  possibility of time travel or non-local psychic phenomena, so therefore these  concepts never even arise in the minds of most people to explain observed  events.
ayurveda is considered an upaveda (“applied knowledge”; upa-near; next to) of the latest of these, the atharva veda (1000-1500 b.c.) and thus its teachings considered the highest possible category of knowledge.
eventually, muslims from western asia not only availed themselves through mutual trade of india’s considerable natural riches, but began to brutally invade, conquer, loot, and annihilate its people.
when they are measured.
einstein proposed that light consists of little particles, or quanta, later named photons, each with an energy equal to planck's constant times its frequency, e=hf.
the vedic  “svasthya-healer-social body-subjective intuitive” paradigm became  metamorphosed into “disease-curer-individual body-scientific  objectivity” of western or modern medicine.
throughout the early ad period and middle ages, there was a  fragile thread still connected to the past which acknowledged atman and the  non-material aspect of life.
at best it has become little more than a collection of unanimated slokas.
whereas the authority of  empirical evidence carried little weight in ancient pre-vedic and vedic india,  modern thought began to value the systematic, logical and cautious epistemology  that first appeared as indian materialist thought.
our time is better spent memorizing plant genera and practical treatment protocols.
whereas if you use a high frequency, you should still knock out some electrons even if the intensity is very low, i.e. very dim!
now that the strangeness of quantum mechanics has been  discovered and accepted, there couldn’t be a better time for this to  happen.
this incident exemplified how the elaborate procedures of western reductionist science can project highly distorted conclusions, producing “scientific” results that are essentially non-scientific.
consequently, it was removed from the mainstream of scientific thought for two centuries.
but it was in our unbridled zeal to use technology and look ever more closely at nature in a quest to discover the smallest, most fundamental particle of matter that science inadvertently and unwillingly stumbled upon the realm of quantum physics.
in this theory, an electron that is not being observed does not exist as a particle at all, but has a wave-like property covering all the areas of probability where it could be found.
perhaps the time has come, thanks to quantum mechanics, when we will no longer fear the mockery and disdain of the rational materialists as we open our minds once again to the validity of the original intuitive revelations and insights of ayurveda.
mechanism, in turn, logically leads to determinism which,  thanks to newton, says that since all phenomena can be explained entirely  through the behavior of matter with physical laws, then just as surely as a  billiard ball struck by a cue ball with velocity x at a 45° angle will move  in an opposite complementary 45° angle with velocity y, all phenomena are  likewise completely determined by the properties of that matter and the  operations of those natural laws.
brahmin has always been described as the pure, uninvolved witness to the creation.
if light travels as particles we can imagine particles of light (photons)
if light is a wave, then the energy contained in one of those waves should  depend only on its amplitude--that is, on the intensity (brightness) of the  light.
precisely because quantum mechanics leads to irrefutably proven yet outrageously counter-intuitive and illogical conclusions that it has perhaps perfectly prepared the world for the true renaissance of ayurveda.
to make a connection with that ancient culture, we do not necessarily need to live the exact same inner experience or speak the same ancient language.
also for individuals of different prakritis, the formulation would need to be individualized.
the extraordinary fact that the ejection energy was independent of the total energy of illumination (i.e. intensity) showed that the effect must be due to a particle which gave all of its energy to the electron!
must we always use the scientific method of western science before we sanctify meditation, herbal medicine, marmas or other aspects of ayurvedic medicine?
that may sound reasonable enough to you at this point.
when we are not watching the holes, the photon goes through both simultaneously, like a wave!
now keeping  the intensity (brightness) of the light the same but using a higher frequency  (color) should increase the maximum kinetic energy of the emitted electrons.
this applies not only to photons but to  any two objects that have ever interacted; they are eternally entangled and  will have mutual influence on each other’s behavior.
thus was quantum mechanics born from this conundrum and from the ensuing  research of einstein, planck, de broglie, bohr, schrödinger, bell and  others who attempted to explain how electromagnetic radiation can exhibit both  particle-like and wave-like behavior.
perhaps the most central vedic teaching is that everything including all human beings are born from brahman which manifests its connection with us in the form of our individual atman.
our vedic predecessors held them to be the supreme means  of arriving at truth.
when we observe the electron by placing detectors at the slits, it is forced into revealing its location which causes the probability wave to collapse into a particle.
somehow the interaction of the observer with the experiment affects the  observed result.
now, with the same setup, imagine that instead of particles, that light  travels as a wave.
most western ayurvedic “practitioners” and patients despite their best intentions are limited by their conditioned minds in their ability to penetrate the true essence of ayurveda.
if we want those symbols of another age to  speak to us once again we will need to accept a new, expanded paradigm of  reality.
the sarangadhara samhita (c. 13th century a.d.) describes the use of opium, mercuric oxides, and stresses the importance of physical examination and pulse interpretation in diagnosis.
that the interface of the tanmatras and  mahabhutas was an important and mysterious process is clear from its  consideration in ancient vedic texts such as the brahmanda purana: mano  rupeksu kodanda panchatanmatra sayaka “mind is the bow which launches the  arrows as five tanmatras”
until the polarization is actually measured, photons have no polarization.
texts commonly include a flow diagram of the 24 tattvas revealing the procession of the creation from immaterial to material, from purusha (spirit) to the panchamahabhutas (matter).
which way did it turn out?
this was the all important  change which represented the paradigm shift of the late vedic period.
in 1887 heinrich hertz determined experimentally that when light shines on  a metal surface, it’s surface emits electrons.
people began gratifying their senses with no restraint and pleasure was asserted as the highest good.
“charakas” are thought by some to be the general name of the wandering mendicants of this age who became expert in healing and who contributed to the early theory and practice of ayurveda.
if the objects are indeterminate until one of them is measured, then the  question becomes, "how can we account for an initially indefinite  direction of polarization in twin #2 suddenly becoming definite in concert with  twin #1 even though no physical interaction between them occurred, and which  are sufficiently separated that there was not even sufficient time, if we take  c, the speed of light to be a limit, for such an interaction to proceed from  the first to the second object?"
© the national institute of ayurvedic medicine.
perhaps now a new non-denominational  version of the bible could be re-written in light of the convergence of  quantum-vedic wisdom outlined in this paper.
however this  particle view was pretty much discredited with thomas young's double-slit  experiment, which demonstrated that light had to be a wave.
the eminent ayurvedic physician dr. v.n. pandey and i were invited there to  present evidence for the efficacy of a certain herbal preparation in reducing  the size of uterine fibroid tumors of small to medium size.
in september 2011 there was even a  preliminary report from the esteemed cern laboratory of an object—a muon  neutrino—moving faster than the speed of light, which for 100 years has  been held to be an immutable, unsurpassable constant (final confirmation may  take several years).
how can a single photon go through two holes at the same time?
he gradually lost his sense of connection to “outside” nature.
our  precious roots have been severed.
if light travels as particles we can imagine particles of light (photons) as bullets fired from a rifle.
now that the strangeness of quantum mechanics has been discovered and accepted, there couldn’t be a better time for this to happen.
quantum entanglement there is another aspect of quantum mechanics which has equally astonishing  implications.
the particle theory of light persisted for more than100 years until thomas young’s famous double-slit experiment which he conducted in 1803.
in fact, the materialist emphasis on  empirical validation of truth became the guiding principle of the scientific  method which has survived to the present day.
the return of the mind these next two paragraphs are the hardest to grasp in this entire article so prepare yourself.
their concern  was the vast movement of consciousness and the oneness of micro and macrocosm;  and the eternal character of the cosmos is what adds an ageless quality to the  language of their hymns.
once the electron is observed, the ‘wave function collapses’ into a single location and the electron becomes a particle.
are we really saying that until a thing has been observed it doesn't exist?
this has caused philosophers and some  scientists to ponder the cosmological implications.
the double-slit experiments  still gives the same result using electrons as it does using photons; electrons  also alter their behavior depending on whether or not they are being observed.
now let’s see  how the effect change would if we assume that light is made of particles.
though superficially familiar with terms like atman, brahman, agni, prana, ojas, etc.
however more and more emphasis was placed on  dietary, herbo-mineral medicines, and other physical remedies to promote  health.
technology and cultural barriers have now irreversibly developed and become embedded in the fabric of modern life; civilization’s prevailing paradigm is now much more complex.
in 1900, max planck was working on the problem of how the radiation an object emits is related to its temperature.
twin pair photons are entangled in a state of identical polarization but do not have any particular polarization unless and until one of them is measured.
thus it points to a universal connectedness reminiscent of that spoken  of in the vedas.
but if you’ve read this far maybe you’ve already guessed: this is not quite the end of the story, though it took another eighty years after thomas’s double-slit extravaganza.
how does it  “know” where to go on the detector to form part of the overall  pattern?
but to the vedic mind they were not only real and familiar, but valid processes of knowing.
their insights were eventually recorded in the vedas and the essence of these realizations more cogently expressed in the upanishads.
this theory elegantly explains the behavior of the particles in the double-slit experiment.
imagine for a moment these were water waves.
interestingly, despite the lofty heights of human wisdom that was attained by these pious and contemplative seers, this undermining of vedic spirituality was achieved with remarkable success and ease.
imagine a wall with two holes in it, each the same size and just large enough for the bullets to fit through, with a second wall behind where the bullets will strike.
the energy emitted was found to be proportional to the frequency of vibration, and it seemed to come in little "chunks" of the frequency multiplied by a certain constant.
i will explain what i see to be this auspicious timing in this  paper.
so, for example, red light and ultraviolet light of the same intensity should knock out the same number of electrons, and the maximum kinetic energy of both sets of electrons should also be the same.
it could be called the tentative  gospel according to quantum veda.
these two “twin photons” will fly off in different directions but will always have the same polarization (i.e. both vertical, both horizontal, etc.)
once also counter-intuitive, we no longer believe that the sun and planets revolve around the earth or that the earth is flat.
on the one  hand there was the res extensa: the world of solid bodies extending into space  and independent of human mental processes; on the other, the res cogitans, or  the inner realm of the perceiving mind.
a man’s organs, and the man himself, became more and more defined by his separate identity, which he vigorously preserved and protected as never before.
where both waves are lifting the water surface upward, we get an additive effect and a more pronounced crest; where one wave is cresting and the other is troughing the two cancel out and the water level is undisturbed.
the double-slit experimen
depending on which experiment you choose to do, you can prove light to be either particles (photoelectric experiment) or waves (double-slit experiment).
furthermore, it attempted to explain existence in terms of the four material elements (air, fire, water and earth).
two-- that there is no physical reality to any physical property until it is consciously observed.
brahmin has always been described as the pure,  uninvolved witness to the creation.
as a reaction against the ascetic and meditative practices of the religiously devout brahmins, indian materialism celebrated the pleasures of the body.
in fact you can actually  start an electric current in a circuit just by shining a light on a metal  plate.
technology and cultural barriers have now  irreversibly developed and become embedded in the fabric of modern life;  civilization’s prevailing paradigm is now much more complex.
summary:  when we are watching the holes, we never catch the  photon going through both at once--it will only go through one or the other,  like particles.
what it  suggests is that nothing is real until it has been consciously  observed!
are we  really saying that until a thing has been observed it doesn't exist?
prior to measurement, the polarization of both photons is identical but in a superposition state.
the rational modern mind, which derives its knowledge either through intellectual reasoning or sensory observation, i.e. metaphysical or scientific method, assumes that the sublime knowledge of the vedas must have been the result of active metaphysical speculation emerging out of an attempt to intellectualize and elevate the primitively imaginative and raw religious experiences of the vedic rishis.
if we repeat the experiment, this time with only one hole open, the  individual photons behave again like bullets and all cluster round a point on  the detector screen directly behind the open hole, just as expected.
however, we must also bear in mind that the vedas are not textbooks or user manuals.
thus it points to a universal connectedness reminiscent of that spoken of in the vedas.
along with the rest of human thought, the original instinctive realized wisdom of ayurveda became eroded in favor of a more evidence-based, measurement-verified, empirical method of knowledge.
how does this happen?
however this particle view was pretty much discredited with thomas young's double-slit experiment, which demonstrated that light had to be a wave.
in almost all modern textbooks detailing the philosophical origins of ayurveda darshan, we find a few paragraphs outlining the samkhya philosophy.
if someone were to author a true epistemology of vedic  wisdom, it would indeed place the concepts underlying the ancient words dristi,  sruti, smriti, shravana, nididhyasana at the center of the analysis.
however, it turns out electrons have been used instead of photons, and they not only have mass, they have an electric charge, and even move at different speeds depending on circumstances, much like normal everyday objects.
after several  decades of consistently positive outcomes of hundreds of his patients and those  of his many colleagues, in addition to the authoritative testimony of the  ayurvedic texts, he decided to bring it to the attention to the modern world,  which i facilitated.
quantum mechanics,  specifically its entanglement feature, gives scientific credence to the  interconnection between brahmin and all life forms.
quantum mechanics verifies the universal  creative implications of the observer.
as the tradition of ayurvedic medicine advances into the 21st, it must recapture inner respect for its own wisdom not by inaugurating ayurvedic schools in foreign lands or fighting for laws which permit the overseas sale of medicines, but rather by revitalizing our connection with our roots, however mystical they might be.
on a slightly different note, there  was also a decidedly hedonistic aspect to indian materialistic thought.
when light hits electrons in the atoms of the  metal’s surface, it can transfer enough energy to knock some of these  electrons out of its atoms.
the true essence of our philosophical  foundations has been lost almost in its entirety.
conclusion thousands of years ago the ancient vedic priests and ayurvedic healers  realized the fundamental truth that the entire universe is one, interconnected  life interpenetrated by the ultimate reality which they named brahman.
what the double-slit experiment demonstrates is this: each photon starts out as a single photon - a particle - and arrives at the detector on the second wall as a particle, but appears to have gone through both holes at once, interfered with itself, and worked out just where to place itself on the detector to make its own small contribution to the overall interference pattern.
einstein used the photoelectric effect to  understand whether light consists of particles or waves.
why ayurveda needs quantum mechanics introduction: back to our roots
this is  precisely what the copenhagen interpretation is telling us about reality.
unless these ideas are appreciated, it is impossible to understand how the old rishis arrived so early in human history at knowledge which, whether accepted or denied, electrify and expand the horizons and admiration of even the most steadfast modern intellectual.
if the theory is correct, its implications are staggering.