posted by admin in massage on august 7, 2011 changes are part of our lives that we can’t stop or alter in the course we want them to be.
however, we can slow down the process and fight off illness with  massage therapy.
later on, this  systematic approach in therapeutic massage education was successfully developed  and became known as the new kinesiology touch for health.
their goal was to create a massage therapy method that can be practiced and conducted by individuals without proper training and education on physical therapy.
posts tagged traditional chinese medicine what is touch for health therapy?
all of these components  are blended to form a basic type of therapeutic massage that can be utilized  and enjoyed by anyone who needs to have treatment.
the therapy doesn’t require the learner to be knowledgeable in physical therapy in order to understand the techniques.
later on, this systematic approach in therapeutic massage education was successfully developed and became known as the new kinesiology touch for health.
the practitioner then works on the strong  muscles surrounding the fragile ones in the goal of strengthening and regaining  their optimum condition.
he noticed changes in  the weak and affected muscles whenever he conducts massage works on the strong  muscles connected to the frail ones.
he noticed changes in the weak and affected muscles whenever he conducts massage works on the strong muscles connected to the frail ones.
posted by admin in massage on august 7, 2011 changes are part of our lives that we can’t stop or alter in the  course we want them to be.
the same goes with our health, it degenerates as we grow older each day.
touch for health is one therapy that is known as a therapeutic massage that  uses muscle manipulation by testing to find weak muscles.
it is known as a  branch of applied kinesiology designed for ordinary people to understand and  implement on their family and friends.
although it can also be done while standing, most patients prefer to sit down or lay down to avoid discomfort.
touch for health uses combined knowledge and elements found in western medicine, bodywork, and traditional chinese medicine.
touch for health is one therapy that is known as a therapeutic massage that uses muscle manipulation by testing to find weak muscles.
read the rest of this entry » course, education, fight, george goodheart, health, health therapy, idea, knowledge, massage, massage therapy, massage works, muscle manipulation, optimum condition, sickness and diseases, technique, therapeutic massage, touch, traditional chinese medicine, type, western medicine no comments
however, we can slow down the process and fight off illness with massage therapy.
our vessel also becomes fragile and weak as the days  goes by.
its history can be traced to dr. george goodheart’s discovery on the  effect and benefits when certain muscles were massaged.
the idea though wasn’t complete, not until dr. goodheart worked with  john thie who was also a chiropractor.
touch for health uses combined knowledge and elements found in western  medicine, bodywork, and traditional chinese medicine.
their goal was to create a  massage therapy method that can be practiced and conducted by individuals  without proper training and education on physical therapy.
the practitioner then works on the strong muscles surrounding the fragile ones in the goal of strengthening and regaining their optimum condition.
the technique uses muscle testing on the affected areas to assess and search for weak muscle groups.
the therapy session usually begins with the client lying down or sitting on  somewhere comfortable and relaxing as the practitioner starts with the  evaluation of the muscles.
muscle testing is constantly performed during the  massage therapy in order to get a good idea of the progress of the massage  therapy.
the technique uses muscle testing on the affected areas to assess and  search for weak muscle groups.
its history can be traced to dr. george goodheart’s discovery on the effect and benefits when certain muscles were massaged.
the same goes with our health, it degenerates as we  grow older each day.
the idea though wasn’t complete, not until dr. goodheart worked with john thie who was also a chiropractor.
the therapy doesn’t  require the learner to be knowledgeable in physical therapy in order to  understand the techniques.
all of these components are blended to form a basic type of therapeutic massage that can be utilized and enjoyed by anyone who needs to have treatment.
read the rest of  this entry » course, education, fight, george goodheart, health, health therapy, idea,  knowledge, massage, massage therapy, massage works, muscle manipulation,  optimum condition, sickness and diseases, technique, therapeutic massage, touch, traditional chinese medicine, type, western medicine no comments
the more we age, the more it becomes prone to all sorts of  sickness and diseases.
the more we age, the more it becomes prone to all sorts of sickness and diseases.
the techniques used in this type of massage therapy are quite simple and easy to learn, understand, and practice.
although it can also be done while standing, most  patients prefer to sit down or lay down to avoid discomfort.
the therapy session usually begins with the client lying down or sitting on somewhere comfortable and relaxing as the practitioner starts with the evaluation of the muscles.
this led to the development of the system known today as applied kinesiology.
the techniques used in this type of  massage therapy are quite simple and easy to learn, understand, and practice.
both were diligent and determined in  developing a technique using the idea of applied kinesiology on a simpler level  that can be understood and learned by everyone.
muscle testing is constantly performed during the massage therapy in order to get a good idea of the progress of the massage therapy.
our vessel also becomes fragile and weak as the days goes by.
both were diligent and determined in developing a technique using the idea of applied kinesiology on a simpler level that can be understood and learned by everyone.
this led to the development of the system  known today as applied kinesiology.
it is known as a branch of applied kinesiology designed for ordinary people to understand and implement on their family and friends.