its clear that somewhere along the line you decided to shut your mind and "recant" of your "heresy".
to comment, sign in or sign up.
serum levels of total cholesterol, triglyceride, high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, ldl cholesterol and phospholipid differed significantly between the two study groups prior to dietary supplementation.
further, many times when antibiotics were previously prescribed, the patient had a viral infection (the antibiotics can't treat it), but the immune system cleared the infection.
" logged in via facebook score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - and quoting edzard ernst is an admission of bias, because he has been outed as an ideological crusader, which is why he was stood down from his chair.
acting head of the school dr ray myers has defended rmit’s health science programs as “evidence-based education and practice… editor founder of the australian health care reform alliance & emeritus professor at university of new south wales nhmrc research scholar, school of population health at university of queensland acting head of school of health sciences at rmit university
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - what constitutes good or bad information is a bit subjective rachael.
and your use of logical fallacies is becoming dull.
only it doesn't sound like it from what you say about studies.
so i might have avoided it.
yet cardiovascular disease, the biggest chronic disease, is falling.
logged in via facebook score: -9 insightful + unconstructive - science is observation and deducting, theorizing and testing, and acupuncture was one of the very first sciences in the world.
yes, i do think that there is a lot that is yet unknown about the placebo response, and that further research into this phenomenon is warranted.
will we blindly push on anyway in denial of our limited capabilities, hoping that if we keep our attention on chasing our limited scope of reality that the all the rest of it will not come to bear upon us?
i think its all a big con designed to eliminate people's free choice and railroad them into pharmaceutical products.
it has made me see that cam is built on a foundation of logical fallacies and until it rids itself of those fallacies it remains pseudoscience.
“there is a lot of crap, but there’s good stuff, and treating it  like it’s all the same thing is very, very fraught.
it incorporates systematic forms of evaluation which support innovation.
references again, showing the failure of acupuncture: j pain symptom manage.
whatever tests you need, go downstairs, take the test, walk back to the doctor with the results in the same day and be diagnosed, prescribed treatment in either acupuncture/herbal/western pharmaceutical drugs and walk out...
we've had improved nutrition for many decades, polio, hib, smallpox, pertussis and measles weren't defeated by improved nutrition but by vaccination.
the final paragraph of the conclusion states as follows: "until better quality studies are performed, we are unable to determine whether acupuncture structures possess distinct electrical characteristics.
however, dr myers said that cam research at rmit was conducted in a thoroughly scientific manner, with the nhmrc funding clinical trials of alternative medicines.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - "allopathy" was a term of abuse invented by hannemann, long before there were rockefellers.
such a statement would be ludicrous.
you have to credit our authors and partner institutions in the byline.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: insightful + unconstructive - or perhaps suggesting they either didn't get your email or have been distracted by other media commitments?
instead of using the four examination techniques of observing, listening/smelling, palpating and inquiring to gather clinical data for eventual diagnosis, the four examination techniques undergo transformation into the four evaluation techniques 'si ping' to observe, palpate, listen / smell, and interrogate clinical symptoms and signs for data to evaluate the efficacy of administered therapy.
… modern medicine  is totally devoted to doing everything we can to take this evidence-based  approach and do good science and do good research into the things we do to  people,” he said.
obviously his comment is misleading, a bit like most scientific studies i'd say.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - ernst no being stood down is true, you can't have a differnt perspective on that (or the earth orbiting the sun, or the earth being 4.5 and a bit biliion years old, or bacteria causing disease) logged in via facebook score: +1 insightful + unconstructive -
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - goodness me, you were talking about eggs being bad/good, and somehow we're now back to your favourite study?
all you end up saying is that the efficacy of chinese-style acupuncture is generally not significantly different from japanese-style acupuncture.
phd candidate, molecular microbiology logged in via email @graduate.uwa.edu.au score: -4 insightful + unconstructive -
the problem is your cognitive hole is so deep you're incapable of seeing out of it.
it's not sophistry, it illustrates a point: science as a practice, and the scientific method as an application of that practice, are an ideal.
and a publicly accessible commentary on the latter paper http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/index.php/acupuncture-revisited/ researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: insightful + unconstructive - hi ian, i love that acupuncture for asthma study.
because the placebo effect in this case derives from the attention of the therapist.
i'm not here to do it for you.
"ioannidis [researcher who discovered studies were up to 90% flawed] was unusually well prepared to enter medical research: he had been a math prodigy of near-celebrity status in high school and both of his parents were physician-researchers.
pharmaceutical sales representative logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: +2 insightful + unconstructive -
this is real valuable evidence that can't be dismissed by you just because you're biased.
“they love to say that there’s no such thing as complementary medicine and conventional medicine, there’s just evidence-based and non-evidence-based, but, for example, st john’s wort for over a decade now has been shown to be equally as effective as any pharmaceutical indication for mild to moderate depression, yet there’s still a large group of doctors who refuse to integrate it simply because it’s a herbal medicine,” dr wardle said.
no,it embraces them instead.
buy your meals from uni of nar-min labs today!!!
if you don't accurately attribute the mechanism of physiological improvement, it would appear almost anything and everything could be a therapeutic agent.
they purpose of medicine is not to make new scientific discoveries and to persecute practitioners of unconventional techniques, it is to aid the patient in improving their health.
the failures of vaccination are inclined to be kept hidden, and apparently there are a few including possible autism cases and other auto-immune diseases.
that whole long spigot of snide commentary you just spewed forth really highlights how little you actually know about this subject.
and i'm sure there will be many more effective treatments to come from naturopathy and herbalism (which generally also includes fungal and bee products, minerals etc.
i just don't think the science is there to say that vaccinations don't cause any side effects or lowering in overall health.
“there are studies from canada, australia, and britain that show that  cam practitioners are less anti-vaccination when they’re university  trained, and they refer more to conventional [medical] providers when things  get serious if they’re university trained.”
indeed, the concept of using controlled studies (treated vs untreated and controlling for confounders) goes back to the 1800s.
based on this review, the evidence does not conclusively support the claim that acupuncture points or meridians are electrically distinguishable.
acting head of the school dr ray myers has defended rmit’s health science programs as “evidence-based education and practice”, citing collaboration in clinical research of cam treatments funded by thenational health and medical research council (nhmrc).
this article clearly illustrates the closed mindedness of select individuals who are always in fear of losing something.
what i am saying is that the physiological affect of acupuncture does not derive from the needle, but from the force which inserts and manipulates the needle.
anybody who tries to compete either gets incorporated into their outfit or eliminated.
give me evidence and not rhetoric.
they have a legal (and i would say ethical and moral) obligation to prove effectiveness and safety before they go to market with a product.
(the conspiracy theory is that more and more people were turning to kava instead of prozac, and "kava causes liver damage" stories started to appear in the press, but this is no place for conspiracy theories).
the last part of your comment is verging into big pharma conspiracy territory so i'll leave that alone.
alternative aims to rebuild the immune system so the body can fight off these invaders itself.
this is specifically an issue of a) public funding and b) whether or not it's appropriate for places of tertiary education to be teaching "traditional chinese herbal medicine, chiropractics, homeopathy, naturopathy, re
as a case in point, asthma sufferers who had placebo inhalers reported themselves to be subjectively better, but objective measures of lung function showed no improvement.
the onus is on defenders of the status quo to prove why in the first place the notion of placebo is relevant to procedural primary health care.
where am i going to find that -- well not in your dumbed-down institutes of medical learning, that's for sure.
so the article is not theoretically incorrect.
it  has written to every vice-chancellor in australia asking for a review of their  health science courses to “ensure that primacy is given to scientific  principles based on experimental evidence”.
it decreased the level of sil-2r (p < .01).
so therefore, tcm affirms that the physical healing effect of acupuncture does originate in the mind, but that doesn't mean its "placebo" (because placebo is a concept that cannot be meaningfully removed from its endogenous context and translated into other areas).
logged in via facebook score: +11 insightful + unconstructive - how can any rational person justify the teaching of homeopathy in taxpayer-funded universities?
but i think she should acknowledge any potential conflict of interest when presenting her claims.
after 3 days, leukocyte phagocytosis was enhanced in the treated group, compared with the baseline measurement (p < .01); no such enhancement was observed in the control group.[2] a third study observed the effect of acupuncture on interleukin-2 (il-2) and natural killer (nk) cell activity in the peripheral blood of patients with malignant tumors.
further investigations into the effects of acupuncture on cancer pain using rigorous scientific methodology are warranted…show full comment
scientific medicine works, evidence so far is most alternative therapies are not effective.
the placebo effect is the alteration of perception of symptoms.
diabetes is rising because people are less active and are consuming…show full comment most are the inevitable side effect of living longer.
even in rats, acupuncture is decisively shown to both treat and prevent chronic stress over and above placebo control:
office of technology assessment, us congress.
many people have died from taking too much, but if you survive, effects can include include abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, dizziness, headache, tinnitus, and nystagmus.
the reason we practice medicine in whatever form or research in medically related fields, should be to relieve human suffering by providing relief of disease and its symptoms by using a method that is most effective, least invasive, most humane, cost effective and producing the least unwanted side effects.
often there are outbreaks of disease due to vaccination, if you read some reports, not just those cherry picked by conventional sources wishing to paint a rosy picture.
the first randomized controlled trial found that acupuncture treatment enhanced platelet count and prevented leukocyte decrease after radiation therapy or…show full comment pursuant to this discussion, jarred, i would draw your attention to the latest review here: http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/cam/acupuncture/healthprofessional/page5 "four randomized controlled trials,[1,2,4,5] a nonrandomized clinical study,[3] and two case series [6,7] found that acupuncture enhanced or regulated immune function.
it's highly offensive.
another, resveratrol has impeccable credentials as a therapeutic, most recently for weight loss in the esteemed journal 'cell metabolism'.
logged in via facebook score: -1 insightful + unconstructive -
i have always thought of naturopathy as having a symbiotic relationship with modern medicine.
http://scienceblogs.com/insolence/2007/09/the_cranks_pile_on_john_ioannidis_work_o.php i encourage you to read it.
it is these latter ideas that can be interpreted as being "mystical", however, as cosmological systems they do have validity.
[5] the nonrandomized clinical study showed that microwave acupuncture (mat), a newly developed technique in which a specially designed device attached to a normally inserted acupuncture needle is used to deliver microwave radiation to a given point, enhanced the immunologic function of cancer patients.
" no i'm not, that is just not true.
and it sure has paid off for pharmaceutical medicine.
by all mean research ginseng.
i see the demand by scientific medicine for more clinical trials for proven traditional remedies as being driven by big pharma's desire to eliminate any and all competition going back over 100 years.
just as there are different types of force in modern english language physics, there were different types of qi in ancient chinese language taoist thought.
but in the real world, where the consideration of client's health is paramount, why the patient gets better is not as important as if the patient gets better.
quickly, tell everyone now they should no longer consider their favourite 'spices' (dare i say herbs?) in their cooking....or wait, better stop cooking all together, send your whole family to the university to be re-educated, learn how to cook with preciseness that is proven scientifically in the latest and greatest food science course that now proves with chemical constituents, precise measuring and laboratory grade food what is the one and only best recipe for ....
for example, subluxations which even chiros now say (cautiously) don't exist.
now, when you say that no good reason has been given why acupuncture should be exempt from from this evaluation standard/methodology, you have got it back to front.
this means they can be therapeutically used for these purposes, but ethically, is it right to lie to someone about a sham procedure and charge premium prices for it?
logged in via facebook score: -6 insightful + unconstructive - i have explained, numerous times trevor, how and why the concept of placebo is not relevant to acupuncture.
logged in via facebook score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - not at all.
our recommendation was to be very careful when reading chinese studies for this reason.
we are docile credulity-cows, eager victims of quacks and charlatans who milk us and grow fat.
could it be possible that now is yet another time where the scientific community might actually have to agree to disagree and agree that both are right?
… modern medicine is totally devoted to doing everything we can to take this evidence-based approach and do good science and do good research into the things we do to people,” he said.
but again, that's the strength of science, we don't accept these reports at face vaule but test them.
very scary stuff especially when we're talking the difference between breathing and not.
acupuncturist logged in via email @hotmail.com score: +2 insightful + unconstructive -
remember how criticised da vinci was for cutting up and butchering those bodies, michelangelo too...
much has changed, science is showing some placebos are effective and better in some circumstances.
taking it out of universities runs a real risk of the fringe element getting a stronger voice in the profession.”
“rmit stands by its long record of evidence-based research and the high quality of its health sciences programs.”
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -3 insightful + unconstructive - you have quoted the 90% figure again and it's not true, not even close (and again, the reason why we find these studies is that science doesn't take a single study as gospel and actually tests the finding rigorously - cam doesn't do these basic levels of quality control).
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - you have completely misunderstood the paper (and the purpose of quting it, which was clear in my original comment).
results: ltc4 generation by leucocytes decreased significantly in group a after 2 (p < 0.05) and 4 weeks (p < 0.05); conversely, it increased significantly in group b after 4 weeks (p < 0.05).
now i know from observation and experience that, in general (generalisation alert), practitioners in china are more likely to possess a very high degree of skill than western practitioners (and even moreso, western doctors with no lengthy period of highly specific study and clinical experience behind them).
“if they [fsm] are really worried about  public safety they should be not trying to exclude and ostracise them from the  university sector.”
arguing for inclusiveness and the fair consideration of facts on all sides, like some kind of biomedical television debate with forced equivalence, is not the empirical process.
you said "the misinformation regarding vaccination coming out of nimrod weiner's practice needs a public health warning in of itself.
he questioned how representative fsm’s roll call of doctors really is, saying that he has just completed a survey of every rural gp in nsw and qualitative interviews with about 30.
nobody doubts that concentrated western drugs or invasive surgery is nneded and appropropriate when someone needs instant pain relief or acute life saving treatment (e.g. anaphylaxis, ami or major trauma).
full disclosure: member of editorial board for focus on alternative and complementary therapies (fact) and funded by the hri and the institute for ethnomedicine (wy) post script, i have been unable to find any universities that do in fact teach homeopathy as stand alone course.
but cam doesn't even have this level of quality control.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - ian, when a person says "up to 90%" it can be anywhere ranging from 1 to 90.
rmit really does need to take a close look at the academics on their books and jetison those who spout 'mystical' nonsense as if it were fact.
climate and agronomic extension at department of agriculture and food - western australia score: insightful + unconstructive -
logged in via twitter score: +4 insightful + unconstructive - here we have richard present a textbook example of the logical fallacy called 'special pleading', where a standard of proof is required for all medical interventions except acupuncture.
when i say better, pharmaceutical drugs are what is called allopathic (they oppose the symptoms).
pharmaceutical studies aren't worth the paper (or computer)
read the original  article.
but so far, no response.
that doesn't mean all practitioners wait for good trial data.
yes rachael, it is dangerous to put out disinformation on vaccination in some ways.
you only want to examine acupuncture through your own narrow paradigm and its not a valid method.
citing the late ceo of apple, professor dwyer said that “steve jobs  spent a year with his cancer of the pancreas trusting homeopathic remedies, and  by the time he got to the surgeons it was all over.”
complementary medicine doesn't even do this, it never tests beyond a superficial level, and never withdraws.
and 'st johns wort' is the correct answer to a question in our bank of exam questions at sydney medical school on the best treatment of depression.
"nonsense" the sceptics refute, "its the heart itself which causes blood to circulate, not some magical make-belief woo-woo bullshit which doesn't exist!"
"i assumed that everything we physicians did was basically right, but now i was going to help verify it," he said.
now for skeptics to try to suppress alternative information isn't good, whatever the pretext.
to me, the most surprising aspect of this movement are the gross, unscientific generalisations in their letter to universities (including the "lesser" ones).
at this stage the only evidence is that it doesnt suit your purposes.
the methodology does not apply to compounds solely.
yes, antibiotic proven effectiveness is well known pharmaceutical intervention that saves lives, sure.
what was started back in 1800s still continues with the suppression of certain ideas and practices.
however, the preliminary findings are suggestive and offer future directions for research based on in-depth interpretation of the data.
and during a time when aust remains in the grips of a whooping cough epidemic?
i have used cellsalts to cure many conditions that otherwise would have required pharmaceutical products.
that means that surgery, physiotherapy, psychiatry, psychology, hypnotherapy, and many, many other disciplines, (including acupuncture incidentally), are simply not appropriately tested with that particular research methodology.
the campaigning group, friends of science in medicine (fsm), has about 400 signatories, including immunologist sir gustav nossal and professor jock findlay, chairman of the nhmrc’s embryo research licensing committee.
fans of this procedure swore that it improved sound quality.
on the rise are diseases such as asthma, diabetes, autism, allergies, ms, dementia etc.
he questioned how representative fsm’s roll call of doctors really  is, saying that he has just completed a survey of every rural gp in nsw and  qualitative interviews with about 30.
if the definition of evidence-based science was one that required double-blind trials then much of what is taught in medicine itself could be in danger of being classified as pseudo-science.
this is to imply that vaccination has some overall benefit apart from the disease it vaccinates against.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - unlike you graeme, i am not willing to give away my own reasoning processes, to be told that i'm mistaken and that its all placebo, that black is really white and vice versa.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: +2 insightful + unconstructive - today's conventional medicine is known as allopathic as the treatments oppose the symptoms - antibiotics kill the bacteria, insecticides kill the parasites, fungicides kill the fungus, chemo kills the cancer cells.
there were unseen influences at work in that situation and i think you are being too simplistic it dismiss them.
its not like just a drug, which any dr. can prescribe, as long as the diagnosis is correct.
in my opinion, most people are rational and intelligent, and should be treated as such.
the rockefellers and their ilk, industrial robber barrons of the 19th century are responsible for cornering the market on things such as transport, oil, medicine, education, manufacturing etc.
antibiotics are touted as one of allopathic's miracle wonders, attributed to saving many lives, yet in a way this is a fraud because cam has nutritional remedies / cellsalts which can also cure infections but its effectiveness has been kept under wraps.
sure, some acupuncturists of low skill may only elicit a placebo effect.
notice that dirty four letter word in front of "acupuncture"?
unfortunately some of the more extreme elements of the "alternative medicine" industry will deny that "natural substances" are chemicals (by what logic?)
just like kids in the cubby house, some even like to call themselves doctor, when they aren't.
as such they would happily claim that their activities entirely align with the demand for evidence-based science.
this also raises lots of ethical issues, which have been discussed in detail, including whether it is considered lying to patients, so it does open a can of worms in this regard.
our goal is to ensure the content is not compromised in any way.
neither of these criticisms make the slightest bit of sense when we're…show full comment i'd like to deal, briefly, with some of the arguments that i see above.
and then i see that the evidence-based culture is one where people can't even come up with a ball park figure on anything without consulting a study.
it is worth noting  the veracity ofthis claim by professor edzard ernst about mr jobs treating his  cancer with homeopathy has left somestruggling to find evidence for it, while  others have claimed that for nine months after his diagnosis, mr jobs spurned  what could have been life-saving surgery in favour of not homeopathy buta vegan  diet and herbal remedies.
and that's not a good thing.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -2 insightful + unconstructive -
this type of clinical evaluation that is embedded in tcm practice is undertaken by employing the four examination techniques 'si zhen' as a clinical evaluation template or tool.
ernst wasn't stood down, but took early retirement.
" when was old man rockefeller selling his snake oil medicine, made from petrol supposedly to treat cancer and anything else?
phd candidate, molecular microbiology logged in via email @graduate.uwa.edu.au score: +4 insightful + unconstructive - anything with an effect, physical or otherwise will be picked up in a sufficiently large study size.
spicy debate: rmit is researching the  effectiveness of ginseng in improving lung function in patients with chronic  obstructive pulmonary disease.
in a clinical study granted a$560,000 by the nhmrc and  a$30,000 by thenational institute of complementary medicine, the university was  collaborating with two melbourne hospitals on a clinical study investigating  the use of ginseng, a herb used in traditional chinese medicine, for improving  lung function in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd), he  said.
no you wrong, on every count.
and look i've told you that the so-called "placebo" which you claim is generally as clinically effective as acupuncture is in fact a bona fide japanese acupuncture technique itself.
can we say that is was the bacteria alone that caused the disease?
because through your scientific, absolute high class education system, you have been taught that light exists and is present-you probably don't even care if it’s a particle or a wave, nor probably know the difference right now...
serious adverse events, including deaths, continue to be reported.
acupuncture demonstrably has such an effect in every single study, and to scoff at that and bang on and on about the "placebo effect" is to fundamentally misunderstand the very nature of acupuncture as an holistic mind-body therapy itself.
surface needling, non-penetrative needling, alternate acu-point locations, all of these are known properties of japanese schools of acupuncture that are centuries old.
ethically, is it right for you to seek to shut down a beneficial practice that billions of people benefit from, just because you tried testing it with your bunk methodology and the results were inconclusive?
just as viagra was once used as a cardiology drug, and was then re-patented for use in impotence.
in this sense, systematic clinical evaluation is already embedded in tcm practice.
so if you have study which says black is white and vice versa, the inclination is to go along with it and say, "oh, it is placebo that we see white as white, it is really black" etc.
and with acupuncture, research shows that patients…show full comment not at all.
one achievement of physics in the twentieth century has been to prove that that aim is unattainable.”
however, the only way these can be removed is by performing proper trials.
you've drifted into conspiracy territory which precludes a sensible discussion.
we are always looking for ways to improve it, because science is self correcting.
and it actually adopted the logic of both arguments, put them together and embraced the fact that light can act both as a particle and a wave...
but they were actually causing great harm and suffering, and so too will fsm
what us millionaires did in the us in the 20's has little relevance to the rise of scientific medicine (the pharmaceutical companies mainly rose in europe, ironically, a substantial number were originally herbal medicine suppliers).
logged in via facebook score: -3 insightful + unconstructive -
what it effect you are saying is -we can't determine that these energy meridians and qi exist,despite the extraordinary technologies at our disposal but the chinese have been saying so,so it must be true.
in fact, just for your elucidation, i will quote from this random website i found from a google search just that belongs to a random japanese acupuncture practitioner.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: -2 insightful + unconstructive -
he’s what’s known as a meta-researcher, and he’s become one of the world’s foremost experts on the credibility of medical research.
you show no understanding of skepticism or science and presenting your idiotic ideas does nothing to support the teaching of cam in universities.
but when you test acupuncture without paying reference to irrelevant notions of "placebo" and such, you find a significant beneficial effect every single time.
all therapies which have effects also have side effects, as an example the side effect profile of st. johns worth is pretty much the same as pharmaceutical fluoxitine (except when what the sell you doesn't actually have any st. johns worth in it, a perennial problem with herbal medicines).
furthermore, even though people are living longer, the onset of chronic disease burden is shifting back, so people live longer disease free lives than before.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: insightful + unconstructive - most are the inevitable side effect of living longer.
or encourage his discoveries, inventions and methodologies?
traditional chinese medicine was an ancient science, and just because it used a language steeped in mysticism does not detract from its scientific validity.
when he pored over medical journals, ioannidis was struck by how many findings of all types were later refuted and he was shocked at the range and reach of the reversals in everyday medical research."
( http://www.scribd.com/doc/61486011/nimrod-weiner-seminar-presentation)
for anyone interested in looking it up, the study is wechsler me et al., nejn, 2011; 365:119-26.
+1 insightful + unconstructive -
there are thousands of peer-reviewed published solid clinical trials in the field of natural medicine, many dating back 20 years or so and still not recognised in general medical practice.
this is like newton's force of gravity.
it's not that they are not known, it's that there is no good evidence that they work.
it seems simply want to draw too long a bow out of entrenched bias against acupuncture, and this attitude you display does not help us get closer to the truth.
dr. john ioannidis has spent his career challenging his peers by exposing their bad science.
it is not the latest review (it's 2012 update was merely a name change).
as for energy meridians, well i posted a link to a meta-review here down the page that finds very suggestive evidence into the electro-conductivity properties of meridians, exactly as predicted in tcm.
no, i don't think it's a coincidence.
we therefore ask all authors to disclose any potential conflicts of interest before publication.
we can and do have placebo intervention for inhalers, electostimulation, transcranial magnetic stimulation and so on.
it's a long and complicated process to get results published with many checks and balances on the way and it takes years.
using that as an argument implies that somehow your freedoms are being affected due to radical 'scientific authoritarianism'.
your idea of discussion is "if you disagree with me you're biased and further discussion is pointless".
“these are dangerous delusions, and our campaign at the moment is  aimed at those somewhat lesser universities, but nonetheless universities, that  are offering and teaching pseudoscience as if there was an evidence base to  support it, because obviously that gives credibility in the eye of the  public,” professor dwyer said.
i mean, acupuncture is not an standardised unit.
putting it into the universities diminishes the fringe  element,” dr wardle said.
a few years ago, macquarie chiropractic students were being taught at sydney university and were getting more anatomy as part of that program than the medical program.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - your bias is showing rachael.
their headache could be from the nerve pain that you just prescribed that sponsored drug for, or it could simply be due to the fact that they had a stressful day or many other reasons.
the autism "increase" was due to changes in diagnostic criteria.
i find ernst's intent very clear in his interview with nature: he is contrasting cam practices which do not currently have his preferred brand of high-quality research supporting their use, citing homeopathy as an example, to practices which have garnered support as a result of objective inquiry, and here he uses acupuncture as a representative intervention.
i can see your confirmation bias is strong on this one, and i'm wasting my time having a discussion with you.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -3 insightful + unconstructive -
secondly, when you say "correlation is not causation", you do so blissfully oblivious to the fact that, in tcm, this distinction is irrelevant.
logged in via facebook score: insightful + unconstructive - tim, i am up to date in this area, and the trial methodology developed that you refer to is flawed, in numerous different ways.
hi rachael, conventional isn't all right and cam isn't all wrong.
chinese medicine embraces western medicine, look at china - walk in the hospital, take a ticket, see the doctor, get referred to blood test/x ray…show full comment this article clearly illustrates the closed mindedness of select individuals who are always in fear of losing something.
if it works we will use it.
logged in via facebook score: insightful + unconstructive - you have evidence that using a machine would have no effect?
we can and do have placebo intervention for inhalers, electostimulation, transcranial magnetic stimulation…show full comment you are mistaken, acupuncture was by no means a science in it traditional form, and the modern form is a very recent invention.
it´s that honesty that i see sorely lacking on the cam side.
everything isn't always as cut and dried.
as yet only physiological factors are understood empirically, and those only partially.
if anything you are a perfect example of the rusted shut, unthinking minds that cam demands, unable to consider the possibility that you may be wrong.
what does this tell me?
ernst has tirelessly advanced his own perspective on the truth, but in no way is what he says exhaustively authoritative.
do you really think the world will be a better place if you succeed in driving tcm lore and knowledge out of all institutions of learning?
"alternative medicine" in this instance describes such… i agree.
that is the human condition.”
wiley-liss, inc." if you read the abstract alone, it's highlighted that due to the low quality of the studies, neither demonstrates any significant effect, in fact it is likely that poor control of variables or other associations (confounders) were the reason.
about 70 per cent of australians use cam and it thus makes sense for research and training to be carried out within the regulation and scientific rigour of the universities, dr wardle said.
if you are in the chinese medicine industry, please don't answer, as this is best left to those who are criticizing it...feel free to add homeopathy, osteopathy, chiropractics...whatever other things you believe need to be eradicated from university studies.
but if you think that thinking the earth is spherical is just as wrong as thinking the earth is flat, then your view is wronger than both of them put together.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - the general public read about studies done by this and that institution showing eggs are bad one week then ok in a couple of years time.
this is a critical aspect that is overlooked in all trials of acupuncture, which…show full comment
their own muddled anecdotal observations mean more to them than the best scientific research.
i'm talking about what it actually was...did it contain garlic?
group co-founder emeritus professor john dwyer from the university of nsw said that fsm wants “vice-chancellors to ask their deans of science what’s the heck’s going on … it’s just extraordinary that such undisciplined nonsense is being taught in universities around australia.”
there are some shocking snake oil options out there and rubbish straight out a fantasy novel that shouldn't ever see the light of day.
it seems that you have an expectation for others to accept your statements of historical relevance without knowing some relevant history yourself.
if that's the mechanism, it's still hugely positive and preferable to pharmaceutical intervention.
and even if you do find small elements of these treatments that work, that does not justify accepting the plethora a garbage that comes in these course such as homeopathy, energy healing, acupuncture and kinesiology.
so what did the scientific community do with this problem?
it is because the placebo controlled, double blind study seeks to isolate and examine solely the physiological effect of the compound in question by separating it from any effect rendered from interaction between practitioner and client.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive -
the complementary healthcare council, which is the peak industry body in australia is against making the tga listing process more transparent for just this reason.
this is where cam and science part ways - as didier nave so eloquently put it in a comment near the top of the page "time to face the facts.
one study of ethics breaches by pharma companies highlighted the targeting of early adopters to prescribe patients to dubious medications.
but actually that was an interesting study, thanks for bringing it up rachael.
the sooner universities wake up to the depth this bizarre delusion the better.
seeing as acupuncture is a skill, this needs to be taken into account.
" senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - don't rely on newspaper articles (which greatly exaggerate the issues), i've read the original papers, and it is much ess than 50% (and even then the "flaw" in most of these papers is that the reported effects are bigger than established with more extensive clinicla trials.
see this coroner’s report on the death of penelope dingle and weep.
and so is your statement about qi.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - not just infections ian, but also fungi and parasites.
however, when the treatment is interaction between humans, the notion that the concept of placebo could be relevant in any…show full comment tim, i am up to date in this area, and the trial methodology developed that you refer to is flawed, in numerous different ways.
" isaac asimov (1989).
and when i say where appropriate i mean where a potential lies for efficacy, thus eliminating modalities such as homeopathy.
then, compare them to the ideology of conventional medicine.
i sat through his appallingly inaccurate 2 hour presentation about 12 months ago and was shocked by the unadulterated nonsense being spouted from his computer screen."
thanks for reconfirming that your brain is rusted shut.
the huang di nei jing specifically rejected the influence of spirits and the use of magic, and outlined a mature synthesis of cosmological doctrines such as yin and yang and the five phases.
the world of cam is not a “homogenous entity”, said dr wardle.
why should they be when allopathic medicine has such a closed mind and refuse to acknowledge even the most successful methods such as homeopathy and chiropractic.
taking it with alcohol can increase the risk of stomach bleeding and overdosing can kill you.
in fact there has been a recent discussion in the media about the ongoing problems and how to fix them, particularly with respect to pay-per-view.
you can put our articles on pages with ads, but you can’t sell our  material separately.
some early adopters jump at what a sales rep presents them.
in fact many are toxic and dangerous.
people without access to the new england journal of medicine can find the graphs and a discussion of them here: http://scienceblogs.com/insolence/2011/07/dangerous_placebo_medicine_in_asthma.php logged in via facebook score: insightful + unconstructive - that paper proves absolutely nothing, it wasn't even a trial about real acupuncture, there was no actual acupuncture conducted in that trial at all!
this conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: +1 insightful + unconstructive -
this article was originally published at the conversation.
as a reformed self diagnosing, self medicating homeopathic junkie, i can say from first hand experience carole, that i understand how you support your delusion in fantasy treatments.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - i don't think there have been any studies done to compare the overall health of vaccinated to unvaccinated.
but if not, until your next ignorant diatribe, always, richard.
stress relief in cancer patients would therefore be of benefit to immunity.
if only you use a tool that can only be usefully applied for testing pharmaceutical compounds, then of course you are only going to conclusive results when testing pharmaceutical compounds.
the nhmrc had also granted a$400,000 for a project in which the university  was collaborating with three melbourne hospitals on a three-year clinical trial  of acupuncture for pain management in emergency departments, dr myers said.
the formal scientific method is a great way of furthering our understanding, but it does not actually prove anything.
-water is magic and holds memory.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - you are wrong, there are many studies showing that vaccinated people overall equal in health or better health than the unvaccinated (the links in the article i gave you will lead you to them) a swedish study actualy showed teh vaccinated were slightly less likely to die overall (excluding the diseases they were actually vaccinated against).
they argue that forcing proper labelling and listing procedures for complementary products will result in the loss of intellectual property by manufacturers.
the signatories of the friends of science in medicine need to have a good long look at themselves and decide whether they are supporting a robust health practice or one that serves vested interests at the expense of us all.
taking it out of  universities runs a real risk of the fringe element getting a stronger voice in  the profession.”
he…show full comment ian, you were saying? ...
as for the ioannidis paper, i think you'll find it's more complicated than that.
are you stupid yourself?
i'm not sure what you mean by "withdrawn".
only in the ones we have actually measured.
the investigators suggested that the anticancer effect of acupuncture may be mediated via the mechanism of immunomodulation.
typer logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: +3 insightful + unconstructive -
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - well ian, my mistrust of scientific studies goes back to the reports the public often gets in the newspapers where one year eggs are bad for you, then a few years on they're good.
and why is the only significant variation in patient reported belief of wellness over no intervention?
many very useful drugs are based on natural chemicals found in plants.
it smacks of arrogance, intellectual dishonesty and lots of cognitive dissonance.
but it is lucrative and helps support a health system where costs have blown out of control and people have increasing levels of chronic degenerative disease.
you are wasting your time.
one of the reasons i'm against evidence-based medicine is it is too easily rigged to favour vested interests, and vice versa.
no evidence of function, versus an evidence of function misapplied with a lack of trial detail.
similarly, my colleagues worked on antioxidants as an intervention for heart disease for decades only to admit after several large scale trails that actually they really didn't have much benefit.
consider this: light is not proven to be only a particle, and light is not proven to be only a wave...
bioelectromagnetics 29:245–256, 2008.
vaccination may help prevent the diseases for which a person is vaccinated for, however, overall there is a theory that they have undesirable side effects generally on a person's overall health, many people developing auto-immune diseases.
i'll leave with one more food for thought....
natural remedies go against this need.
maybe i do have conformation bias, maybe like my quote implies, bias is an integral part of the universe, and there is no objective reality.
it's clearly showing that what we do is not much better than placebo.
it is therefore misguided to ignore and even worse to attack non empirical disciplines which seek to understand non physiological determinants of health and well being.
how about a reality check and a touch of perspective here?
saying it works doesn't make it so.
i won't waste anymore.
phd candidate, molecular microbiology logged in via email @graduate.uwa.edu.au score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - thalidomide was used in pregnancy without the same rigour applied to modern medicine.
i had a bit of a look for his website, which… ok.
not only does it perpetuate a fraud in our society, it also debases the real sciences.
j bronowski – the ascent of man cheers!
" senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: insightful + unconstructive - i'm familiar with the actual paper, i use it in my teaching, but even the breathless news article doesn't say what you think it says.
logged in via facebook score: +1 insightful + unconstructive -
the nuturopath who treated me in the above anecdote was also a chemist.
what is wrong with looking?
it is worth noting the veracity ofthis claim by professor edzard ernst about mr jobs treating his cancer with homeopathy has left somestruggling to find evidence for it, while others have claimed that for nine months after his diagnosis, mr jobs spurned what could have been life-saving surgery in favour of not homeopathy buta vegan diet and herbal remedies.
http://chem.tufts.edu/__answersinscience/__relativityofwrong.htm logged in via facebook score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - these reviews state that there is a poor description of the interventions.
typer logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: +10 insightful + unconstructive - a letter from this morning's sydney morning herald: a lobby group is arguing that university reputations are at stake as a result of offering courses on alternative medicine (''scientists urge unis to axe alternative medicine courses", january 26).
that's not to say rct does not have its place, and i do think the methodology is valuable, but it cannot be the end-all be-all of every healthcare decision we make.
http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/index.php/what-does-anti-vaccine-really-mean/ and links therin.
perhaps there is no biological mechanism of treatment other than altering stress levels and cortisol levels in turn, i.e. person feels treated becomes calmer, feels better, but is not in any way treated.
my experience has led me to believe that the whole foundation of modern medicine is based on false theories driven by vested interests.
they knew light existed.
many new treatments take time to be accepted, (antibiotics/ppinhibitors for gastritis due to h.pylori comes to mind).
during those visits, presenting symptoms or signs are used as indicators of efficacy of the therapy administered.
see the lengths you are going to?
you are incorrect to say that 'natural medicines' can't be patented.
you think i haven't worked anything out for myself, that i blindly follow cam for no reason?
i was approached by this lobby group to support its efforts, but requested clarification from it on how it defined ''pseudo science''.
if acupuncture engages the bodies own healing systems, why is there generally no significant results between placebo and acupuncture?
the lobby group did not respond to my inquiry - perhaps suggesting that its members had not sufficiently thought through this issue.
the concept of force is one of the most basic principles inherent to physics.
chinese medical scholars detailed accurate maps of human anatomy tens of centuries before da vinci and compiled comprehensive materia medica 1000 years before european physicians did.
we do not "invite one guest from each viewpoint to the program" when the sides are, say, 'cellular physiology' vs. 'magic'.
findlay, chairman of the nhmrc’s embryo research licensing committee.
so this is the critical variable you are missing, ian.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: +2 insightful + unconstructive - carole, that is the fault of bad reporting of science by non-specialists journalists.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: insightful + unconstructive - you keep using that figure and i have pointed out it is wrong.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - those making accusations about the profits of big pharma might want to consider a couple of things.
for example, it is said in tcm that "heart qi" is what causes…show full comment
there is no way that vaccinated would have better health over unvaccinated.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - but ian, why go to all the expense of testing cam medicines that have a long history of success behind them, when scientific studies are so prone to error - ie up to 90% wrong by some accounts.
acupuncturist logged in via email @hotmail.com score: insightful + unconstructive - i.e. http://mh.bmj.com/content/26/1/18.full logged in via facebook score: -1 insightful + unconstructive -
dietary sources of alpha-linolenic acid, such as perilla seed oil, may… int arch allergy immunol 2000 june 122 (2) 137-42 effects of perilla seed oil supplementation on leukotriene generation by leucocytes in patients with asthma associated with lipometabolism.
the placebo effect surrounding the use of pharmacologically active agents (the immediate feeling of wellness despite there being insufficient time for the antimicrobials to have had an effect) causes patients to demand antibiotics at gp visits.
one chap in particular at rmit comes to mind.
" its (remotely) possible this is the case, but to immediately latch on to it and state that its probable indicates that you're…show full comment
the benefits, through centuries of trial and error, were discovered, in many cases, centuries before anyone knew how to scientifically test them.
how was your blood pressure after eating it?
there are myriad more examples.
besides which, the sham acupuncture used is actually identical to certain techniques from japanese acupuncture schools centuries old.
however, the truth also needs to be addressed.
besides which, it is not relevant to talk about placebo in the context of acupuncture at all anyway.
michael l. millenson, ab: demanding medical evidence: doctors and accountability in the information age, the robert wood johnson foundation, issue 2, september 1998.
i would also add that they need to be very careful about appointing to academic positions, even adjunct (non-salaried ones) individuals who promote non-evidence-based 'alternative' views.
isn't this small exchange illustrative of just how subjective even the 'objective' pursuits of the most modern medical research investigations remain?
there were four groups in this trial and four groups only: albuterol, placebo, sham acupuncture and no treatment.
" http://summaries.cochrane.org/cd005319/acupuncture-for-shoulder-pain "there is not enough evidence to say whether acupuncture works to treat shoulder pain or whether it is harmful.
"ioannidis [researcher who discovered studies were up to 90% flawed…show full comment your bias is showing rachael.
again this is why we test all discoveries thoroughly, because chance alone can mean the some medicines appear to work better than they do, which is a point that cam practitioners miss with their own claims) conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - ian, merely repeating this information, that scientific studies are 90% flawed is wrong, over and over does not make it true.
peer review is not perfect - indeed it's how andrew wakefield's article about mmr and autistic colitis got through and look at the damage it's done (and continues to do).
it turns out the method of extraction, whether aqueous or solvent will effect the type of kavalactones which dominate in the mix.
even in rats acupuncture is recently found to be effective in both treating and preventing chronic stress: http://nccam.nih.gov/research/results/spotlight/010112.htm you have to accept ian that there is more to this than is currently known, and to just instantly dismiss it as ineffective and mere placebo is not scientifically justified and is not aiding the advance of knowledge in this area researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: -2 insightful + unconstructive -
it's really a shame you're not listening to the good information ian is providing you.
it was still believed we would soon know all there is to know and so on.
now, true, these are just preliminary findings, and there is still more research to do, but to imply that we've conductive exhaustive research and haven't found anything is devious and deceptive.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: insightful + unconstructive -
if conventional medicine was right in its treatment of disease, there wouldn't be such a steady rise in chronic degenerative ill health amongst the community, nor would there be the blowout in costs of the medical system that has almost become unsustainable.
the onus is not on me to prove it is a placebo.
there is an overwhelming abundance of evidence for the efficacy of acupuncture.
it’s just extraordinary  that such undisciplined nonsense is being taught in universities around  australia.”
acupuncture is not a 'special case', it is just another intervention that claims to have health benefits, and as such, should be held to the same standards of evaluation as every other intervention.
principal policy adviser logged in via email @telstra.com score: +10 insightful + unconstructive - theories in all disciplines are refined and refuted all the time.
further investigations into the effects of acupuncture on cancer pain using rigorous scientific methodology are warranted.
serum levels of triglyceride and ldl cholesterol differed significantly between the two study groups after 4 weeks of dietary supplementation.
chinese medicine is now being found efficacious in numerous trials designed with the same adherence to the current standards as used in western medicine research.
i wish i could upload the graphs that show the stark differences between the subjective improvement for four interventions (albuterol, placebo inhaler, sham acupuncture and nothing) versus the measured change in fev for the same.
in fact, its probable that this promising preliminary research will bloom into a full-blooded confirmation of scientific fact, but we'll just have to wait and see, won't we.
if you can show us that something works well then it will no longer be fringe and move into accepted practice.
second point, i note the comments about prof dwyer and prof phelps on abc am today.
this is the status quo that so many here are defending as "real science" as opposed to the "pseudo science" they want to ban.
if a=b and b does nothing, a does nothing.
actually, the pumping mechanism of the heart generates kinetic force, and it is this kinetic force which causes the circulation of blood in the vessels.
insightful + unconstructive - it's a review paper richard, i was one of the authors along with three others one of which was edzard ernst.
if nutritional remedies weren't put so much on the backfoot, this knowledge would be more available.
the problem as i see it is indoctrination of mainstream medical establishments.
and the fact that he wrote a book somehow makes him well qualified?
but of course... you're just speculating and injecting your patent bias into what you think would happen.
meanwhile i'm the one here introducing new evidence that you're unaware of and you're the one stuffing your fingers in your ears and shouting "la la la la la".
the great danger, said professor dwyer, was that people who have chronic health problems or who have been persuaded that doctors do not have the answers are delaying the “proper investigation and treatment” of their illness by instead seeking help from therapists offering alternative medicine.
taoist astronomers would say that it was the "qi" of the heavens that made them move as they did.
acupuncturist logged in via email @hotmail.com score: +2 insightful + unconstructive - good point brett.
based on this review, the evidence does not…show full comment and for those who read the entire piece, beyond the quote mine richard gave us: "five out of 9 point studies showed positive association between acupuncture points and lower electrical resistance and impedance, while 7 out of 9 meridian studies showed positive association between acupuncture meridians and lower electrical impedance and higher capacitance.
saying that introducing cam courses into universities to make the practitioners less fringe is analogous to suggesting we create a white supremacist humanities course in the hope of making them less racist.
rmit university’s school of health sciences has rejected the suggestion that it peddles pseudo-scientific quackery via its courses in complementary and alternative medicine (cam).
yes prof dwyer was startingly hostile, but all he asked was for the provision of evidence.
once sufficient evidence is provided it becomes a valid therapy.
have any major advances been made in altmed in the last 20 years?
this data gathered by the four evaluation techniques is then checked , examined, verified and compared with data on clinical signs and symptoms collected and recorded in the medical case record during the previous visit.
how can any particular medicine that claims to treat the individual for their symptoms simply prescribe a drug marketed for this particular condition?
except for insulin, which replaces the insulin that type i diabetiics bodies cannot make, (similarly for growth hormone replacement therapy), iron replace for anaemia, the whole range of vitamin therapy (not the super high doses used by cam), surgery to repair atent ductus arteosis... and a whole range of therapies that repair replace and balance.
some are more toxic than others.
but thanks for your responses.
he believed he would be able to follow his parents footsteps and use math to better support findings in a surprisingly sloppy field.
of course, if sham acupuncture and real acupuncture give equivalent results, and sham acupuncture is not associated with objective results .
are you familiar with plato's cave?
http://coat.ncf.ca/our_magazine/links/53/rockefeller.html "rockefeller’s great generosity was aimed largely at medical education, perhaps because of his father’s career and its peculiar contributions to medicine.
most alternative health practitioners use evidence-based science in terms of observation, intervention, and adjustments in response to the outcome of the intervention.
each treatment must be judged on its own merits per condition being treated, and it is intellectually dishonest to suggest this hasn't been done enough to purge universities of many of these modalities.
the great danger, said professor dwyer, was that people who have chronic  health problems or who have been persuaded that doctors do not have the answers  are delaying the “proper investigation and treatment” of their  illness by instead seeking help from therapists offering alternative medicine.
as out population lives longer, chronic disease burden rises (the increasing incidence of dementia is entirely due to more people living past 70).
i have been saying all along that randomised controlled double blind placebo studies are only applicable to pharmaceutical drug trials and nothing else.
if that's what a placebo can achieve through that route, it's still impressive.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - ian, you were saying? ...
acupuncture is a skill and an art, and its efficacy is almost dependant on the skill of which which the practitioner applies the techniques.
what would be an appropriate tool for measuring i don't know, but i do know that whatever it was, it would have to get over the particular delusion that the concept of "placebo" is at all relevant to this discussion.
i just get sick and tired of hearing about studies done for this and that.
chinese medicine considers every individual unique.
no, i didn't say that.
" these are the latest reviews: http://summaries.cochrane.org/cd007753/acupuncture-for-cancer-related-pain-in-adults "we concluded that there was insufficient evidence to judge whether acupuncture is effective in relieving cancer-related pain in adults.
dr myers was speaking in the face of a campaign by a coalition of prominent medical researchers to expunge higher education of the “undisciplined nonsense” taught in cam courses at australia’s “somewhat lesser universities”.
western medicine is responsible for hundreds of thousands of iatrogenic injuries and deaths per year while cam is only implicated in a handful.
its like trying to measure the length of a piece of string with a set of scales.
it's really a pretty straight-forward comment when taken in context.
there is no need to use the formal scientific method of the randomized controlled trial (rct) to test the efficacy of these therapies.
edzard ernst http://www.nature.com/news/2011/110530/full/news.2011.322.html senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - and yet: "numerous reviews have produced little convincing evidence that acupuncture is effective in reducing pain.
personally i have used homeopathic remedies and find they work, don't know how but that's another issue.
so why did you eat it?
the data showed that il-2 level and nk cell activity were significantly increased in the acupuncture group, compared with the control group (p < .01).[4] a fourth study observed the effect of acupuncture on t-lymphocyte subsets (cd3+, cd4+, and cd8+), soluble il-2 receptor (sil-2r), and beta-endorphin (beta-ep) in the peripheral blood of patients with malignant tumors.
pharmaceutical sales representative logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: +6 insightful + unconstructive -
humans are great at fooling themselves, especially where there is a lot of subjective response involved (such as pain).
surely its time for anyone with a genuine scientific curiosity for the truth to approach these matters with a more open-mind, instead of literally trying to shut it down completely and have it thrown out of all educational institutions.
the fact that this information isn't known, or is known and kept quiet in favour of pharmaceutical drugs is criminal negligence.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - richard, your confirmation bias precludes you from keeping an open mind in this discussion, therefore as i said in a comment somewhere else, there is no point in pursuing this further.
for example, it is said in tcm that "heart qi" is what causes the blood to circulate around the body.
neither medicine has all the answers and neither should they claim too, the community will make their own decision in the long run as to which modality of medicine they choose to put their faith and dollars into, we should definitely encourage medicine research in both areas through increased availability of university course to improve the health of everyone.
my interpretation of the fsm policy documents are not to instigate a flame thrower over cam (as someone else described it), but to examine the current courses, look for evidence based practice and modalities and encourage the removal of those for which there is no evidence.
say you expose two different people to the exact same bacteria, in the exact same amount, and one person gets sick because their immune system is compromised, yet the other remains healthy because they have a healthy immune system.
carole its because of the muddled human brain, making wrong correlations and cherry picking information which fits your beliefs and ignoring that which doesn't, is the very reason that the scientific method was invented.
if penicillin were invented today, it may not have made it onto the market due to some side-effects.
climate and agronomic extension at department of agriculture and food - western australia score: +5 insightful + unconstructive - richard, you are not up to date with the research in this area.
hardly the stuff to be teaching to undergraduates.
the “lesser universities” that have aroused the ire of fsm  include the australian catholic university, charles sturt university, central  queensland university, edith cowan university, macquarie university, monash  university, murdoch university, rmit university, southern cross university,  swinburne university, the university of ballarat, the university of new  england, the university of newcastle, the university of queensland, the  university of technology sydney, the university of western sydney, and the  university of wollongong.
group a consisted of patients in whom the leucocyte generation of ltc4 was suppressed by dietary perilla seed oil.
it reminds one of the repeated proclamations of 'end time judgement' so frequently espoused by the extreme radical and fundamentalist religious groups of various faiths who, not entirely coincidentally, sight various 'signs' and 'seasons' justifying why they are the very generation which will see the ultimate fruition of all that reality and the divine have driven humankind toward since time immemorial.
several psychological mechanisms and cognitive biases are acting as a lens for your selective data interpretation.
in psychology, theories are refined and/or disproved all the time.
the onus is on you (like all other medical interventions) to demonstrate it has an effect beyond placebo.
i agree completely with brendano in regards to inserting cam into universities.
typer logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: +4 insightful + unconstructive - does anyone really doubt that future generations will look back at this time as an era where big pharma did their own research on new drugs, got the results they wanted, paid the fda to have it rubber stamped, and got half the planet hooked on anti-depressants, anti-fat &/or anti-flacid pills, and got the western world's gps to be their unquestioning drug pushers, for the price of a drug company branded wall clock, desk calendar and an all expenses paid trip to cairns for a "seminar"?
i don't think that traditional remedies should need to go through the rigours of the scientific process, which in a way is an insult to remedies that have a proven track often over centuries.
(these chinese medicine trials are often carried out by universities).
the idea of a "pure" blood stream is a 19th century myth.
we license our articles under creative commons — attribution, no derivatives.
and as you pointed out, it is based on chemicals found in "natural substances".
only proper high quality scientific testing including large well-designed randomized controlled trials can sort the wheat from the chaff.
logged in via facebook score: +3 insightful + unconstructive -
“the world is not a fixed, solid array of objects, out there, for it cannot be fully separated from out perception of it.”
as recommended by the world health organization, countries around the world should be incorporating both cam and western medicine into hospitals as well as out of hospital setting, using the best mix of therapies to suit each individual case.
it was a placebo study that used 2 placebos one of which was sham acupuncture, the other being sham inhalers.
alas, in these reviews, it is not, and therefore these reviews are not useful.
the crusades are unrelated to theology as taught at a university.
other such studies as well.
because any trial conducted by someone with a vested interest should be regarded as suspect.
this has thankfully changed and anatomy is now a major part of that course…show full comment i find this article particularly interesting and some of the assumptions of mainstream medicine by commenters disturbing.
however, mri studies show that true acupuncture produces clinical results by different cortical mechanisms than sham acupuncture.
neither of these criticisms make the slightest bit of sense when we're talking about meeting a standard of evidence.
its not really acceptable to have traditional and alternative remedies scientifically tested.
the rockefellers are the main example i suppose regarding medicine, but others include morgans, rothchilds, not sure of others - need to look it up.
and those who claim it, whether they are scientists or dogmatists open the door to tragedy.
i know… the reason i know i am not wrong is that i can get rid of infections, parasites and fungi with cellsalts, by nutritional remedies.
with traditional chinese medicine, acupuncture points and herbal medicine (as well as all the other complimentary modalities) tailor make treatment strategies for you to address what's really going on, not just to mask it up....the same reason why we see the high rollers in pristine suits, tailored to suit themselves.
but the unsupported woo and magical thinking of ancient superstition has no place being taught at a university outside the sphere of anthropology or other disciplines which specifically examine cultures and their beliefs as an academic ends in itself.
if the double blind, placebo controlled study is an inappropriate tool for measuring acupuncture efficacy and providing an evidence base, then what is a suitable methodology?
you talk about la la la, that is your attitude i'm afraid to learning anything about alternative medicine.
they just make something up on the artg, pay a thousand bucks, their product gets rubber stamped with an austl number and we're away!
dr myers was speaking in the face of a campaign by a coalition of prominent  medical researchers to expunge higher education of the “undisciplined  nonsense” taught in cam courses at australia’s “somewhat  lesser universities”.
dr. at university of melbourne score: +6 insightful + unconstructive - i also heard the interview with prof. dywer in radio national this morning.
do you object to say the cessation of homeopathy from being taught at universities?
logged in via facebook score: -4 insightful + unconstructive -
washington dc : office of technology assessment, us congress; 1978.
this is a critical aspect that is overlooked in all trials of acupuncture, which is yet another reason why they are not really valuable in an earnest search for the truth.
http://www.drflagler.com/id7.html see, this is a genuine japanese style of acupuncture.
it´s because scientists have have tested the honesty of their…show full comment my career in cam spans 25 years and i´m an ex herbalist.
then you went on to say that the information shouldn't be available to the public, taking steps to have it removed from the web or something similar.
in a clinical study granted a$560,000 by the nhmrc and a$30,000 by thenational institute of complementary medicine, the university was collaborating with two melbourne hospitals on a clinical study investigating the use of ginseng, a herb used in traditional chinese medicine, for improving lung function in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd), he said.
what there needs to be done is a large scale study showing vaccinated children to be as healthy as unvaccinated.
diabetes is rising because people are less active and are consuming more calories.
i've been involved in this fight on and off for around 25 years, but the best efforts of the nh&mrc, life be in it and various government an community campaigns have been unable to stop people eating more and moving less.
nevertheless, the preliminary evidence is encouraging and may contain clues to the physiologic nature of the elusive acupuncture point and meridian."
medical professionals however should not treat patients condescendingly, and presume that patients are all dumb and stupid and easily deceived.
the nhmrc recognizes the popularity of 'alternative' interventions as therapies and is right to allocate funding for research to determine their veracity or otherwise.
now, seeing as you've been proven to be so wrong about this ian, do you agree that it proves that you are thus proven wrong about everything else you say and write?
scientists actually agreed to disagree and agreed that this is the right answer-there is not just one answer... have a think about that while closing your eyes and imagining the world with no light for a second- impossible!
so you think that the effect of acupuncture is all in the patient's mind...
i am a skeptic and…show full comment
you mean you want some sort of scientific evidence that cellsalts cure infections, fungi and parasites?
unconstructive - thalidomide was a highly non-toxic compound that had been used for years by non-pregnant women and men and was safe in animal studies of pregnancy available at the time.
no discourse rational or otherwise, amount of evidence nor clinical trial or study will shake your convictions.
that was kind of the point of the review, results from allegedly positive studies, where the description of the intervention is too poor to be sure what they have done, cannot be taken seriously.
can it cause nausea, dyspepsia, gastrointestinal ulceration/bleeding, raised liver enzymes, diarrhea, constipation, epistaxis, headache, dizziness, priapism, rash, salt and fluid retention, hypertension, increase in hearing loss, esophageal ulceration, heart failure, hyperkalemia, renal impairment, confusion, bronchospasm, increased risk of erectile dysfunction, myocardial infarction, bullous pemphigoid or pemphigoid-like blistering?
furthermore, this distinction also points to why the concept of placebo is not relevant to discussion about acupuncture.
ignoring the rest of my comment then?
just sprouting a bunch of loaded and emotive terms like "woo" and "quakery" will not cut it, and is an underhanded way to conduct a debate.
logged in via facebook score: +2 insightful + unconstructive -
i can't see any skeptic types learning anything, just the same old mantra about everything needing to be scientifically tested even although the tests are often wrong and prove very little.
alternative medicine does not have kind of surveillance system, and missed the toxicity of comfrey, kava, mua huang and shai ka to.
pretty strong indicator of placebo.
i also encourage you to open your mind, because you seem intent on not listening or learning and that is a shame.
i'm sorry carol, but your propensity to misquote me.
you just don't know what you're talking about, you presume you know why i follow cam.
tcm theory itself predicted your main criticism of acupuncture, yet objectively, in clinical reality, its not a valid criticism any way.
indeed mnd is not a bad example as it happens, since for the last 20 years the largest body of research has focussed on genes but now we see that it's more complicated than that and a move towards a gene-environment interaction is being explored.
chiropractic and osteopathy were areas in which clinical research was limited,  but rmit’s education program incorporated the “best available  evidence, while promoting further clinical research into these  treatments,” dr myers said.
it is proven to be as effective as any drug in clinical trials but is seldom recommended by specialists in this area who work through a cocktail of drugs.
logged in via facebook score: -3 insightful + unconstructive - acupuncture does show significant clinical benefits ian musgrave, in every single trial.
in my view, general practitioners should be prescribing magnesium for men, melatonin instead of sleeping pills, plus folic acid, coenzyme q10 and vitamin d for everyone.
i’m willing to bet it contained something that is considered to some degree a natural medicine.
qi was never meant to mean some mystical energy glowing blue or green that can animate spirits or anything in my opinion, it always was and still is a principle that implies a similar meaning to the scientific concept of force.
and your statement that the only significant variation is patient reported belief over no intervention is wrong, i went over this with ian and rachael.
it may be the case that the earth simply travels in a straight line, but the force of the gravity of the sun warps the…show full comment
typer logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - regarding naturopathy and herbalism, traditional use of medicines is recognized as a way to learn about potential future medicines.
there is so much valid evidence backing the efficacy of acupuncture, so that when you choose only to use evidence from the one, sole, particular methodology which is not appropriate for testing acupuncture with (randomised, controlled double blind testing), then it really starts to seem that you're not interested in evaluating acupuncture objectively, just waging a witch-hunt campaign to expunge those practitioners whose ideology you disagree with from the mainstream system.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - i tried to get a list of signatories from friends of medical research's john dwyer, or a website or something.
some acupuncturists may be skilled in japanese acupuncture, some maybe be skilled in chinese acupuncture, the "placebo" acupuncture may resemble japanese acupuncture, it may not, there are so many variables unaccounted for and undocumented that most of the research in this field coming from outside china is of very dubious quality and doubtful implication.
2011 apr;152(4):755-64.
science does change it's mind when new evidence is presented - and importantly that does includes a new herb or a new "natural" compound - cam does not.
“if you look at chiropractic courses [in universities], most of it is  human physiology.
that is you allopaths, skeptics and debunkers who do that.
although there was an increase in white blood cell count in the mat group, the change was not significantly different from that seen in the control group under drug treatment.[3] in a clinical case series, 28 cancer patients who were treated with electroacupuncture (ea) while undergoing chemotherapy experienced no declines in t cells (cd3+, cd4+, cd8+) or in nk cell activity, both of which are usually suppressed by chemotherapy.[7] similar findings were reported in a study comparing ea to the control in patients receiving chemotherapy for breast, colorectal cancer, and non-hodgkin lymphoma.[8] in another clinical case series, 48 patients with leukopenia —including two cancer patients—who were treated with manual acupuncture experienced improvements in leukocyte count, intracutaneous phytohemagglutinin (pha), and immunoglobulin (igg, iga, and igm) levels after 14 daily acupuncture treatments, compared with their pretreatment levels.[6]" this evidence shows that their is certainly a physiological effect from acupuncture greater than just the patient "believing they're better, but not really being better"... phd candidate, molecular microbiology logged in via email @graduate.uwa.edu.au score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - you'll find that the stress hormone cortisol is antagonistic to the immune promoting dehydroepiandosterone, and cortisol generally correlates with suppressed immune function.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - evidence trumps no evidence every time.
so be a pet and don't tell me what is good and what is bad, and who needs to learn what.
if you look at naturopathy, they do learn herbal medicine and nutrition  but they also learn basic health science: they learn the common language of  health practice – they learn what a physio or a medical doctor or a nurse  would learn.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: +2 insightful + unconstructive - hi richard, what do you think about studying the placebo response in combination with evidence based practice?
i seen the industry contest or reject its own stupidities like live blood analysis or “detoxing” when it can’t name one toxin that its methods supposedly detox?
in 1902, the general education board (geb) began four decades of tremendously controversial influence over american schools and universities.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: insightful + unconstructive - which is not the same thing as saying "...a certain altie has got it all wrong".
i doubt it, unless you personally teach these courses.
at the same time, i feel that alternative medicines do need to be properly monitored.
"the relativity of wrong."
you must link to us and include links from our story, as well as our page  view counter.
some useful background on placebos and why we need them that is publicly accessible http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/index.php/placebo-again/ numerous clinical trails have been done on acupuncture, and by far the majority of well conducted trials are either negative or inconclusive.
not because it doesn't work though.
i challenge you further...if we were to abolish from universities any complimentary/alternative or for my illustrative point, esoteric, energetic, magical or "luke’s force" medicine, which light system are you going to eradicate from science?
but i will address two points: firstly, when you say "the body has mechanisms of repair and healing as part of its innate biology", you ought to know that it is precisely this mechanism which acupuncture therapy encourages.
i pointed out that if it did not have a tight and usable definition of pseudo science its efforts would be wasted…show full comment a letter from this morning's sydney morning herald: a lobby group is arguing that university reputations are at stake as a result of offering courses on alternative medicine (''scientists urge unis to axe alternative medicine courses", january 26).
and indeed when you look into the evidence, you find that all of those other practices also "suffer" from a similar "lack of evidence" that you claim acupuncture does.
j.d.rockefeller, being a high school dropout, was not well-suited to his new role as godfather of the country’s centres for higher learning.
if you go back to the beginnings of allopathic medicine, you find that rockefeller invested huge amounts of money in medical schools, which no doubt was on the principle of "spend a penny, to make a buck" basis.
and a publicly accessible commentary on the latter paper http://www.sciencebasedmedicine.org/index.php/acupuncture-revisited/ logged in via facebook score: +1 insightful + unconstructive -
so who do you think is behaving more ethically?
time to face the facts.
by subjecting alternative medicines to rigorous research in the university environment, medicine is improving all the time.
universities should not turn their back on alternative medicines but should subject them to the same strictures as they would with contemporary therapies.
this concept has been found to be at play in many cam disciplines.
to buttress its case, fsm has gathered a list of  offending courses, which includes chinese medicine, wellness studies, applied  eastern anatomy, clinical science with options to study osteopathy and  naturopathy, mind/body medicine, and many others.
i agree (in fact, i don't know a scientist who wouldn't) that there are plenty of issues with peer review.
why do chiros such as weiner (and there are many others - just take a cursory look at google) have anti-vaccine leanings?
“one of the complaints that we have about so-called alternative  medicine is that it doesn’t strive to be tested.
“it should be a policy that all universities, higher education  institutions, should not be involved in in this woolly teaching,”  professor dwyer said, adding that “i suspect that these are well  attended, popular, money-earning courses for cash-strapped universities.”
the nhmrc had also granted a$400,000 for a project in which the university was collaborating with three melbourne hospitals on a three-year clinical trial of acupuncture for pain management in emergency departments, dr myers said.
i had a bit of a look for his website, which i didn't find, but did discover that he is a chiropractor who isn't in favour of vaccinations.
dr. at university of melbourne score: +4 insightful + unconstructive - traditional chinese medicine (tcm) is not a static body of medical knowledge.
some…show full comment not to mention it still does have an ongoing role in the treatment of some conditions, but we now have trials to tetradogenicity, to test a drug's use in each application.
interviewed john dwyer founder of the australian health care reform alliance & emeritus  professor at university of new south wales jon wardle nhmrc research scholar, school of population health at university of  queensland dr ray myers acting head of school of health sciences at rmit university disclosure statement our goal is to ensure the content is not compromised in any way.
is this really surprising that nutritional cures aren't well known as pharmaceutical solutions?
logged in via twitter score: +8 insightful + unconstructive - i have a bachelor of health science in acupuncture, and i wish friends of science in medicine had been around a decade ago
the results of it were exactly what were expected, it is just a placebo.
the first randomized controlled trial found that acupuncture treatment enhanced platelet count and prevented leukocyte decrease after radiation therapy or chemotherapy, in comparison with the control group.[1] a second study involved a group of 40 postoperative cancer patients, 20 of whom received daily acupuncture treatment and 20 of whom served as a control group.
and there is evidence to suggest the lowering of cortisol achieved through the interaction is key to the benefit.
logged in via facebook score: insightful + unconstructive - as a reformed self diagnosing, self medicating homeopathic junkie, i can say from first hand experience carole, that i understand how you support your delusion in fantasy treatments.
this comes down to the competing schools of thought between the germ theory and the soil theory.
i see the demand by scientific medicine for more clinical trials for proven traditional remedies as being driven by big pharma's desire to eliminate any and all competition going back over… hi rachael, yes, i object to the cessation of any traditional remedies being taught in universities including homeopathy.
that´s how we progress.
“there is no absolute knowledge.
"all we'd have to do was systematically review the evidence, trust what it told us, and then everything would be perfect." "it didn't turn out that way.
you're just so invested in your own precious order of linear thought that for any other free-thinking person to come along and exercise lateral and creative thought processing irritates you in the extreme.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: +1 insightful + unconstructive -
which is not surprising as neither do very much at all.
the claims of fsm, however, ignore the evidence about cam in higher  education, said dr wardle, a nhmrc research fellow at the university of  queensland’s school of population health and co-director of the network  of researchers in public health and complementary and alternative medicine ( norphcam), an international group promoting clinical research in cam.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -2 insightful +
i find it somewhat naive to trust wholeheartedly all of our decisions about how to live our lives (including how to practice our medicine) to such limited pursuits as modern rct.
so why are doctors—to a striking extent—still drawing upon misinformation in their everyday practice?
even though both systems are radically different, western medicine and chinese medicine should both be considered valid ways of treating illness and improving health.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -3 insightful +
in fact, only studies undertaken in china are likely to be useful, because chinese practitioners are the most likely to be highly skillful in acupuncture.
nurse educator logged in via email @y7mail.com score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - just to clarify a couple of points.
it´s because scientists have have tested the honesty of their ideas against one another that we've all come to enjoy the benefits of their work.
thalidomide was 'scientific medicine' once.
there are many perspectives on it.
i believe a second complaint has now been submitted but in the meantime, the…show full comment
and consider the outlay of big pharma in r&d, licensing fees to the tga, post-launch monitoring, continual safety assessments.
granted chinese hospitals are not the most amazing in many aspects, but i truly believe it is amazing to see this integration accepted and working so efficiently.
to buttress its case, fsm has gathered a list of offending courses, which includes chinese medicine, wellness studies, applied eastern anatomy, clinical science with options to study osteopathy and naturopathy, mind/body medicine, and many others.
phd candidate, molecular microbiology logged in via email @graduate.uwa.edu.au score: insightful + unconstructive - "ancient science" "language steeped in mysticism", sounds like quackspeak to me.
yes, i know all cam treatments don't work, but so what?
remember, you're only mainstream now... logged in via facebook score: +4 insightful + unconstructive - i find this article particularly interesting and some of the assumptions of mainstream medicine by commenters disturbing.
many things changed, even since the 80s thanks to science in medicine.
what has modern conventional science-based medicine done to cure them and what is so marvellous about it that every other modality should follow suit?
hi rachael, unfortunately, in my opinion mainstream medicine has come under the influence to some extent of pharmaceutical propaganda and misinformation.
before researchers and scientists make these fraudulent claims that cam does not conduct evidence based research, look at why indemnity insurance is so massive for western medco's and not for cam practitioners.
until your next erroneous statement.
this tends to advance the field.
we are not trying to "roughshod" over cam but weed out the modalities and therapies that we have tested over and over again and we know do not and cannot work.
no good reason has been given why this particular intervention, acupuncture, should be exempt from the same evaluation standards and methodologies used for all other interventions.
like western medicine, chinese medicine has also evolved from thousands of years…show full comment there seems to be a misconception that science is a straightforward and simple way of proving or disproving the workings of the universe.
slightly off-topic, i have a nice quote for you rachael~ “one aim of the physical sciences has been to give an exact picture of the material world.
the us is not the world, and a large chunk of the development of scientific medicine occurred in europe and australia.
"this affects my job/freedom/etc."
you are still failing to understand the basic tenants of scientific testing using the placebo control.
read the original article.
and cam expects to be taken seriously...
the only criticism of acupuncture is that so-called "sham acupuncture" also shows clinical benefit.
so don't tell me i don't know what i'm talking about or that i have a closed mind.
to that should be added a potent antioxidant supplement - not a meagre multi-vitamin which has next to nothing in the way of selenium and vitamins c and e for example.
i also have many md friends, many are justifiably skeptical of pharmaceutical products also.
that linear enough for you?
hi rachael, yes, i object to the cessation of any traditional remedies being taught in universities including homeopathy.
i have grave doubts that the flow-sheet approach we see by gps these days when they diagnose illness is as effective as the whole of body and lifestyle approach of alternative practitioners.
“rmit stands by its long record of  evidence-based research and the high quality of its health sciences  programs.”
please also explain any justification for calling evidence "tainted".
no tim, you're straight wrong: when acupuncture has been straight up tested, every single time, it is shown to have positive beneficial effects. ''
no, i’m not talking about the additives and their known side effects etc that for some reason the medical community don't care about as much, (almost as little as the known side effects for their own prescribed drugs, but not as much as covering their themselves in case of a law suit)
rmit university’s school of health sciences has rejected the  suggestion that it peddles pseudo-scientific quackery via its courses in  complementary and alternative medicine (cam).
this helps us to engage with the real world and real world issues.
hence, with regards the results of the therapy, they should be timely evaluated and verified... there should be follow-up visits, all-round investigation as well as detailed records kept.
i specifically cited his vaccination information.
meanwhile i'm the one here introducing new evidence that you're unaware of and you're the one stuffing your fingers…show full comment
the universe is mysterious enough to need no help from warlocks, shamans and ‘psychic’ tricksters.
oh but of course that's due to living longer isn't it?
in fact we've found very promising preliminary results that are extremely suggestive of the exact phenomenon that we acupuncturists already knew existed all along anyway.
having someone listen and validate you is known to relieve stress and anxiety, which compounds the severity symptoms perceived by the patient.
theology is the study of nothing.
and with acupuncture, research shows that patients do get better, even if the reason why is shrouded in controversy.
further, the body has mechanisms of repair and healing as part of its innate biology, most people will get better.
so even single-masking cannot be achieved.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: -3 insightful + unconstructive - confirmation bias.
and without the need for r&d or clinical trials or ethics in that case - recall homeopathic vaccinations for meningococcol disease?
however i also feel extremely frustrated when i see people suffering from chronic or acute illnesses such as sequel to cva, endometriosis, infertility, fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue, pain from injury, chronic headaches, etc, for which they have not been able to get relief from using the treatments currently available to western medicine, and for which cam has highly effective long term treatments that return quality of life to the patient
this issue is pretty clear.
logged in via facebook score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - not at all.
clinical senior lecturer at deakin university school of medicine & pain specialist at barwon health score: +4 insightful + unconstructive - alvin, i can reassure you that the problem-based learning approach has been critically examined repeatedly and does in fact lead to more effective learning not just in medicine but in other areas where it is applied with some consideration.
i have spent a long time trying to find translations for the concepts of ancient tcm into modern scientific understanding, because i believe the old taoists had valid insights.
so what you are saying is that acupuncture only works in china then.
that long list of side effects is actually not regarding kava, but ibuprofen, a very popular over the counter, scientifically approved drug.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score:
so, it seems you have deficits in your comprehension skills also.
a patent must have something unique but that does not need to be the compound or molecule.
because at the moment there is a suspician that while vaccination prevents one disease (that which it is vaccinated for) it causes other diseases, such as various auto-immune diseases (allergies, asthma, autism etc).
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: insightful + unconstructive -
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: insightful + unconstructive - antibiotics have proven effectiveness in saving lives and reducing morbidity.
“if you look at chiropractic courses [in universities], most of it is human physiology.
instead i see a proliferation of woos that are quite frankly embarrassing,such as "quantum reflex analysis" or "homeopathy for domestic violence".
phd candidate, molecular microbiology logged in via email @graduate.uwa.edu.au score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - not to mention it still does have an ongoing role in the treatment of some conditions, but we now have trials to tetradogenicity, to test a drug's use in each application.
so even with known active therapies the placebo effect is highly relevant to the feeling of improved wellness before therapy has had sufficient time to work, or when the intervention is of no value to improving the disease outcome.
for every problem there is an answer that is simple, obvious and above all wrong.
what it means is that tcm is an holistic discipline, which instead of seeking to be divisive and reductionist, seeks to treat the individual as a whole and complete mind-body system.
cite anecdotes as evidence and drift off into conspiracy time and time again precludes me from having a worthwhile discussion with you.
what do you think makes you, or us for that matter, so much better at what we pursue than those who have pursued the very same and gone before us?
scientific studies are up to 90% flawed and peer review is no more reliable than a throw of the dice.
“alternative medicine doesn’t do that  – it’s more than happy to rely on tradition and anecdote and it  doesn’t really want to be tested.”
i've done an in vitro study here but there's plenty of literature out there http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20734326 conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - yes ian, and and at the moment codex is doing its best to restrict access to nutrients due to their dangerous side effects when taken in doses higher than one might find in the average diet.
unlike cam, which doesn't try and systematically tests their work.
i am a skeptic and i will gladly admit that i was wrong, although i doubt that you will appreciate it, as it goes against your closed minded beliefs.
the problem is your cognitive…show full comment "the reason i know i am not wrong" how many times have i heard this self delusion from a quack.
no i'm not a research scientist.
well actually rachael, its a philosophical speculation that i make my on own, racheal.
big pharma make a lot of the supplements so in some cases they are supplying the supplements which you think come from some warm and fuzzy place at the end of a rainbow 2)
cheers conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - i don't let conspiracy theory stop me when it comes to analysing any situation.
http://coat.ncf.ca/our_magazine/links/53/rockefeller.html "rockefeller’s great generosity was aimed largely at medical education, perhaps because of his father’s career… not just infections ian, but also fungi and parasites.
ergo, my opinion is there is no further effect.
it's the 21st century.
you are trying to put words in my mouth, and you're manifestly wrong.
the campaigning group, friends of science in medicine (fsm), has about 400  signatories, including immunologist sir gustav nossal and professor jock
you may draw your own conclusions.
you are free to republish this article, as long as you follow some simple guidelines, which are summarised here: the full article is available here as html.
for you to claim this, you have to show sham acupuncture (non-penetrating needles, needles placed in non-meridians, tooth picks that don't penetrate the skin at all, non of which correspond to japanese acupuncture) is active and equivalent to acupuncture.
i know what i follow and why.
starting from a viewpoint of curiosity and earnestness, as opposed to scepticism and dismissal, i make a genuine effort to understand such teachings in a realistic context.
one possible cause is allopathic medicine's failure to understand the need for a pure bloodstream and more holistic therapies.
i'd think you'd better check your sources because he was not ousted as an "idealogical crusade".
to make material edits, pleasecontact us you can run the first few lines of the article only, if you say:  “read the full article atthe conversation” with a link back to the  article page on our site.
hence, every subsequent visit or consultation is a process of evaluation of the therapy administered during the previous visit.
jarrad acupuncturist logged in via email @hotmail.com score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - taking the content and context of your comment into consideration, it is interesting that you can identify defects in your predecessors' attempts to apply 'objective rationality' in medicine leading to a tragedy such as occurred with the dispensing of thalidomide to pregnant females and yet continue in the assertion that we in the present day and time (with not really all that much of a temporal separation between us two) have some special claim on or interest in 'rationality' or 'objectivity' such…show full comment taking the content and context of your comment into consideration, it is interesting that you can identify defects in your predecessors' attempts to apply 'objective rationality' in medicine leading to a tragedy such as occurred with the dispensing of thalidomide to pregnant females and yet continue in the assertion that we in the present day and time (with not really all that much of a temporal separation between us two) have some special claim on or interest in 'rationality' or 'objectivity' such that said claim or interest might in some way prevent similar errors, be they of administration or omission, or even yet serve as some indication to hold out hope that because we are the human beings who happen to inhabit the planet at the present time we are afforded some especially insightful method that wold allow us the privilege of unlocking all of the innumerable secrets that the human physiology still holds.
it may be that bacteria is incidental, and it is the state of one's immune system that determines whether illness sets in.
the full article is available here as html.
“these are dangerous delusions, and our campaign at the moment is aimed at those somewhat lesser universities, but nonetheless universities, that are offering and teaching pseudoscience as if there was an evidence base to support it, because obviously that gives credibility in the eye of the public,” professor dwyer said.
for all three treatment arms, the patients thought they improved by between 45 and 50%, but when their fev was measured improvement with albuterol was 20.1%, but only 7.5, 7.3 and 7.1 for the rest respectively.
typer logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - kava is an interesting example to use.
why not try to tailor the treatments they prescribe by taking another approach?
this is completely the opposite situation for the pharma companies you are so unimpressed by.
calling your evidence "monolithically irrefutable" and hence citing others as "intellectually dishonest" does nothing to build up your arguement but rather is just shifting the topic of discussion.
i believe a second complaint has now been submitted but in the meantime, the information remains available along with a presentation called "18 reasons to not vaccinate".
most studies that are set up the wrong way, or do not taking enough factors into account will not make it past peer review and will therefore not get published.
but then, if placebo acupuncture is equivalent to standard acupuncture, and placebo acupuncture has no objective effect, then we may also conclude that acupuncture has no objective effect.
if a review of my research or the direction i was heading took place and it was deemed i was off track, i would be happy to correct for this.
so we can see that if we take the concept of "qi" to mean force, then it is quite correct to say that "heart qi" causes the blood to circulate.
or do we have to take into account other factors?
http://nccam.nih.gov/research/results/spotlight/010112.htm logged in via facebook score: +2 insightful + unconstructive - pursuant to this discussion, jarred, i would draw your attention to the latest review here: http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/cam/acupuncture/healthprofessional/page5 "four randomized controlled trials,[1,2,4,5] a nonrandomized clinical study,[3] and two case series [6,7] found that acupuncture enhanced or regulated immune function.
apparently sanitation had a lot to do with it as well as improved nutrition.
" its (remotely) possible this is the case, but to immediately latch on to it and state that its probable indicates that you're more interesting in "debunking" than you are in being open-minded with genuine scientific curiosity.
there is a well written analysis of his work here.
there are always differing perspectives that need to be accounted for, and there is never a single all-encompassing authoritative position that is infallible.
don't you see all the shortfallings of the current medical system and the huge blowouts of costs, and way it is sending the health system broke?
besides which, it is not relevant to talk about placebo in the context of acupuncture at all anyway…show full comment acupuncture does show significant clinical benefits ian musgrave, in every single trial.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -3 insightful + unconstructive - they are not new, they are the things we used to use before we found medicines that worked.
look at the above, they are biochemicals, and therefore according to the laws of chemistry, some will interact with our biochemistry to produce an effect.
many boxes need to be ticked to demonstrate effect, you simply attribute change in self-reported feeling or cure due to normal disease progression to the ineffective intervention, that's pretty linear to me.
the way that organised science is trying to ride roughshod over alternative and traditional remedies, smacks more of dogma than any real science.
and yet what have you presented if not sound bites of your own?
now you are being disingenuous.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: insightful + unconstructive - i forgot to add that the real figure is nowhere near 90% (and this is for cutting edge reports, not established therapies).
my comment from ernst, and not yours?
how can you call yourselves academics, phd candidates and doctors, i’m ashamed to be associated by title.
sure, acupuncture has not been proven effective in mainstream terms.
“if they [fsm] are really worried about public safety they should be not trying to exclude and ostracise them from the university sector.”
so basically, you've just shown that acupuncture is unfalsifyable, as every form of touching the skin, no matter with what and where, is acupuncture according to you.
honestly, your ignorance permeates every paragraph, so much so that its actually tiresome for me to respond to it.
we expect this, these compounds being biological in origin by chance interact with biochemical components of our body.
in fact research into stress reduction by being listened to is becoming well known and is a key reason many therapies are perceived to work.
“there are studies from canada, australia, and britain that show that cam practitioners are less anti-vaccination when they’re university trained, and they refer more to conventional [medical] providers when things get serious if they’re university trained.”
perhaps you should follow it up.
logged in via facebook score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - not an indicator of placebo at all.
i don't think that you'll find that the defenders of the orthodoxy here are anti-alternative therapy.
-sublaxations are the cause of disease -humans can channel universal energy and heal but we can't measure it ..etc etc.
especially in "relational interactions" where all you may be seeing is a subjective response to attention from a healer figure, not a true improvement.
burn da vinci at the stake?
it sees no dichotomy between science and technology and each is an extension and embodiment of the other.
but it's the best method we have at the moment.
we don't know that the general overall health of vaccinated is as good as unvaccinated.
anecdotal reports from some sources suggest that unvaccinated have better immune systems generally.
logged in via facebook score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - traditional chinese medicine was most definitely a science, and it was ancient.
i'd argue that you, having the financial interest in this matter, are the biased one.
i pointed out that if it did not have a tight and usable definition of pseudo science its efforts would be wasted.
i wonder which side of the line you as the reader would be on now, compared to back then...
placebo is relevant as people have been claiming several hundred times, because patients often claim to feel improvement in the absence of any improvement.
of course you cant learn anything because you already know everything don't you?
to call it junk pseudo science is obviously not true.
logged in via facebook score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - a does not equal b in every and all circumstances, therefore you are making an unjustified leap and going beyond the evidence.
anybody who denies that homeopathy works obviously needs to brush up on their history.
all those inquisitors during the spanish inquisition also thought they were doing the world a favour by burning all those "witches" at the stake, they fervently believed they were doing the right thing, just as fervently as you believe you're doing the right thing.
the reason i know i am not wrong is that i can get rid of infections, parasites and fungi with cellsalts, by nutritional remedies.
i am also a practitioner of kung fu chinese martial arts, and a lot of what we learn involves learning to use our body and our breath in order to generate maximum force for our strikes.
however, when this was tested by playing modified and un-modified cd to the same people but in a blinded fashion, they could not tell the difference.
there has been a trial methodology developed that is a double blind assay of acupuncture.
none of these claims hold water, are special pleading, and the last point is dubious as even surgical intervention requires controlled trial showing that yes indeed a physical intervention can be tested by the method in question.
the data showed that acupuncture treatment increased the proportion of the cd3+ and cd4+ t-lymphocyte subsets, the cd4+/cd8+ ratio (p < .01), and the level of beta-ep.
how is it a science if it can't be objectively tested?
this is one of the drivers of antimicrobial resistance (my research area).
the real world, properly understood in the scientific way, is deeply beautiful and unfailingly interesting.
" http://www.painjournalonline.com/article/s0304-3959(10)00689-5/abstract "in conclusion, numerous systematic reviews have generated little truly convincing evidence that acupuncture is effective in reducing pain.
repeating it will not make it right.
phd candidate, molecular microbiology logged in via email @graduate.uwa.edu.au score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - did you read the article?
my thought pattern is not linear, your comment smacks of irony.
i think we have exhausted any possibility of further discussion as no doubt the same mantra will be repeated "placebo does not apply to acupuncture", "acupuncture cannot be tested by science" or "placebo controlled trial is specifically designed for drugs".
and critics may be right in that it will take time to implement, but this is not something specific to cam.
does it alleviate pain and are there serious risks?
likewise, one single study which incorporated some form of sham acupuncture technique as just one of the variables, and didn't even have anything to do with real acupuncture at all, doesn't prove a single thing about about acupuncture, not the slightest thing at all.
disciplines which are not empirical are not necessarily anti empirical or anti science and still less are they are pseudo science since they don't pretend to be science - quite the contrary.
apart from some evidence in chronic pain and stress relief, limited evidence of benefit.
case study evidence is retrievable evidence; can you do this for the "billions?
so to make broad sweeping statement that a certain altie has got it all wrong, isn't a good idea, because conventional medicine has got a lot wrong as well.
what is derided and scorned as the "placebo effect" is actually a valuable component of the treatment protocol, and helps to enhance patient's health.
logged in via facebook score: insightful + unconstructive - you are making an unjustified leap there ian, and going beyond the evidence.
it has written to every vice-chancellor in australia asking for a review of their health science courses to “ensure that primacy is given to scientific principles based on experimental evidence”.
if you wanted me to be willing to disregard all my own eye-opening and life-changing experiences that i've had with acupuncture, which have had innumerable; ignore all of what i know empirically and intuitively to be true from being intimately involved with the subject for almost ten years, in favour of your sterile speculations about what you think should be the case, when i doubt you have any first hand experience of it at all, then you are mistaken…show full comment i don't see what you were trying to achieve anyway.
the letter laments the spread of chiropractic studies to 19 australian universities, and complains that ‘energy medicine’, ‘tactile healing’, homeopathy, iridology, kinesiology, acupuncture, and reflexology are taught “as if they were science”.
he charges that as much as 90 percent of the published medical information that doctors rely on is flawed.
we collectively value independent research with sound methodology.
and this is also the real reason why there are more positive studies from china than any where else: because the skill of acupuncture practitioners is generally higher in china than any where else.
bacteria may not cause disease.
the needles don't do any healing, as anyone with a sliver of understanding can grasp, they just trigger the patient's body's own healing response, and allows nature to take its course.
acupuncture: what does the most reliable evidence tell us?
there are thousands of peer-reviewed published solid clinical trials in the field of natural medicine, many dating back 20…show full comment "the great danger" can be that conventional medicine is too slow to implement discoveries in the "natural medicine" field which have been every bit as much trialled as convectional medications.
when you looked at the same studies done in other parts of the world the chinese ones were positive versus negative anywhere else.
phd candidate in psychology at university of sydney score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - i'd like to deal, briefly, with some of the arguments that i see above.
it is fundamentally about honesty.
it says: "the practitioner employs a delicate technique…show full comment firstly ian, you're wrong straight up, all of what you said does that corresponds to japanese acupuncture techniques: yes non-penetrating needles, yes alternate meridian locations, yes tooth-pick like instruments that don't penetrate the skin at all (its called a 'teishin').
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - please provide some actual evidence that these salts treat infections.
conventional allopathic medicine rails against cam but shouldn't because there are so many diseases that conventional has no cure for and often the best drug-based medicine can do is ease a person's suffering.
prof dwyer's apparent belief that 'scientific medicine' is the only option is madness.
and i agree that some proponents of orthodox western biomedical science like prof. dwyer are very slow in listening to new complementary and alternative views.
i remember it first being banned in germany, and the reason then was that it became trendy for a while, and there was not enough supply to fill the demand, and shady growers and possibly unknowing suppliers who bought kava from those growers, started manufacturing kava using the leaves and peelings of the plant…the parts that were always thrown away, and now, with recent research; the parts that are poisonous.
engineer logged in via email @gmail.com score: -1 insightful + unconstructive -
if you look at naturopathy, they do learn herbal medicine and nutrition but they also learn basic health science: they learn the common language of health practice – they learn what a physio or a medical doctor or a nurse would learn.
so perhaps you can speculate about stress and cortisol all you like, but the evidence shows that acupuncture is clinically effective, so lets start to use other research methodology (like the methodology used in the research into electro-conductivity) to advance our knowledge in this area, hrmm?
have you read the article that states peer review is no more reliable than a throw of the dice?
it is evident that you are deeply emotionally invested in this belief system.
in some countries where there is a very low standard of living vaccinations can save lives, but the better solution is to improve nutrition.
is this somehow infiltrated into their courses?
j pain symptom manage.
these are at best a soul-sapping distraction.
as a signatory to the petition calling for the axing by universities of homeopathy, naturopathy, chiropractic and other courses based on pseudo-science i am shocked that any learned institution would teach gibberish alongside mainstream courses.
there are already a few interesting papers and lots of discussion surrounding the potential benefits of using placebo as a supplement to clinical practice to enhance the effects of the latter.
as a cam consumer by own brutal observation is that cam is all about people dressing up and playing pretend doctors with pretend medicines (that look just like real medicines but aren't) and pretend treatments.
ok, so we all know when we eat chili we sweat, and scientists have proven its poison attributes...
further, studies that are not designed well will not get funded in the first place so they will never even be done.
regarding the 90% fallacy, i believe it was "up to 90% wrong".
you might think there is strength in numbers, and that because most people believe something that is taught as standard practice in mainstream medical schools, makes it true.
that means that surgery, physiotherapy, psychiatry…show full comment "here we have richard present a textbook example of the logical fallacy called 'special pleading', where a standard of proof is required for all medical interventions except acupuncture.
people use 'arrogant' as a criticism of scientists in the same way.
why do you follow the allopathic way when it can't cure so much?
i've done some research and find that there are two conflicting sides of the story, one being put out by those aligned with pharmaceutical medicine, and the other by anti-vaxxers, often parents of kids who have seen deterioration with their own eyes.
methods: the factors affecting the suppression of leukotriene (lt) c4 generation by leucocytes were examined by comparing the clinical features of patients with asthma who had been given dietary perilla seed oil (n-3 fatty acids).
typer logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: +2 insightful + unconstructive - "cam is built on a foundation of logical fallacies" this page is littered with sweeping generalisations like this.
i did not mention his chiropractic information.
my comprehension skills are suffice to understand that this preliminary research did indeed find suggestive evidence of the very phenomenon that tcm theory predicts, and you're not exhibiting a very inquisitive scientific approach to immediately try to wave it away and say that "poor control of variables or other confounders were the reason (why this evidence exists).
sounds like you're changing mantras fairly rapidly.
first their was huge influx of rockefeller money into medical schools around 1900, then standardisation of medical courses in favour of pharmaceutical science.
this alone shows why blinded placebo trials are needed.
recent criticisms concerning the effectiveness of acupuncture have focused on the ability of sham acupuncture to produce clinical results.
“they’re actually not that interested in evidence, because the overwhelming evidence is that putting cam into universities has increased the standards, decreased the fringe element, and improved public safety, so it definitely smacks of dogmatism,” said dr wardle, who is a naturopath.
talk about 'special pleading'...yeesh!
secondly, the so-called "sham" acupuncture, is actually not "sham" at all, and is actually a form of acupuncture derived from the japanese school of acupuncture.
but you can't accept only the research that indicates acupuncture is no more effective than placebo, but then turn around and try to deny the research that shows acupuncture is more effective than placebo, without being totally internally inconsistent and betraying your base bias.
many of these nutrients should be viewed as medicines and, indeed, are sometimes the main constituents of some patented drugs.
republish you are free to republish this article, as long as you follow some simple  guidelines, which are summarised here: you can’t edit our material unless you have the author’s  express permission or you are adjusting for relative changes in time, location  and editorial style.
very often cam medicine is fragmented knowledge base and nobody in particular with vested interest.
how do you determine the veracity of a claim, believe everything until it is disproven beyond any tiny doubt?
in another article by a different journalist, http://www.tbyil.com/flawed_fraudulent_medical_studies.htm top researcher finds medical studies to be largely wrong or fraudulent, there is the same comments.
i like to remind myself that minds much greater than my own laid the ground rules with which we measure reality.
a lot of funding comes from the government (meaning tax payers) or donations (via charities).
“the project follows the promising results of pilot studies by rmit  researchers, in which more than 1,000 patients received acupuncture treatment  for acute pain relief at the emergency department of the northern  hospital.”
even we are (mostly) embarrassed by it.
allopathic remedies are fairly useless for chronic disease, allopathic hasn't got cures for many chronic degenerative diseases.
since human health involves many factors which cannot (yet) be understood empirically studies of human health should include non empirical methods.
do you think its any coincidence that the only elements of cam (specifically compounds from plants) that show up in your tests as having clinically significant function are precisely the sort (i.e. pharmaceutical-like compounds) that lend themselves to this type of testing?
he and his team have shown, again and again, and in many different ways, that much of what biomedical researchers conclude in published studies—conclusions that doctors keep in mind when they prescribe antibiotics or blood-pressure medication, or when they advise us to consume more fiber or less meat, or when they recommend surgery for heart disease or back pain—is misleading, exaggerated, and often flat-out wrong.
you say this figure has been refuted.
"[w]hen people thought the earth was flat, they were wrong.
so for you to say its "placebo effect" for the body to heal itself is not know what you're talking about: of course the body heals itself, that's what the acupuncture is there to encourage.
do you know what was in it?
the people who are profiting from an established market who do not hold any proof that their products can do what they claim, or those who are spending a lot of money and time to prove that their products can do what they claim before they start selling them?
but i believe it is realistic.
there is a lot of this sort of thing to the extent that the public often take studies with a grain of salt.
phd candidate, molecular microbiology logged in via email @graduate.uwa.edu.au score: insightful + unconstructive - and for those who read the entire piece, beyond the quote mine richard gave us: "five out of 9 point studies showed positive association between acupuncture points and lower electrical resistance and impedance, while 7 out of 9 meridian studies showed positive association between acupuncture meridians and lower electrical impedance and higher capacitance.
as soon as when steps outside the paradigm of using pharmaceutical drug trial methodology to evaluate acupuncture, all this nonsense about "placebo effect" melts away: http://www.medicexchange.com/mri/new-mri-acupuncture-research-shows-mind-body-connection.html senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - you web link doesn't refer to a published study, and i couldn't find one using the key words from the press release.
logged in via facebook score: +2 insightful + unconstructive - haha, i get carried away with the enjoyment of debate sometimes, i do need to calm down at times...
if there is pseudo science being peddled in other fields, obviously it should be eradicated also.
the professions of chinese medicine, chiropractic and osteopathy are government regulated, dr myers said, with rmit programs in these fields meeting current professional standards and subject to external accreditation.
the issue is that people report subjective improvement on placebos, but this is illusory, it is not matched by objective improvement.
( http://www.scribd.com/doc/68731728/coroner-dingle-finding) how can any rational person justify the teaching of chiropractic in taxpayer-funded universities?
what is most likely to happen, is that these studies that have stood the test of time, will be tested as useless - not because they are, but due to flawed science.
i find it strange how one moment you say it can't be tested, then the next you're saying you need further tests, why should i believe in anything before i see results of further tests?
in 2001, researchers identified 122 compounds used in mainstream medicine which were derived from "ethnomedical" plant sources; 80% of these compounds were used in the same or related manner as the traditional ethnomedical use.
my recommendation is to be highly sceptical of the results of any western study, because they just don't take into account this critical variable.
ernst's stood down himself, but his positions was becoming increasingly untenable, especially after making enemies of the royal family in england.
at this point in time wouldn't it be better to at least continue to apply the formal scientific method to test chinese medicine, rather than completely abandon this whole medical system?
pharmaceutical sales representative logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - not unreasonable comments, brett.
critical here are clinical records and possibilities for developing new schools of practice.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - not "in some ways" in all ways.
aureus and a placebo effect, i'm yet to see any research that demonstrates it is effective.
the same can be said for the scientific process.
not saying placebo is a bad thing, it has many clinical uses, but the evidence suggests there is no other effect.
we're learning more about it and demonstrating how it works and verifying that it can be a powerful tool in the alleviation of symptoms exaggerated by patient anxiety etc.
so it seems the chinese are biased.
that said, mental health could be better understood and better funded.
and yes, to be accurate you did say up to 90%.
there are natural nutrients which can lower homocysteine, help prevent alzheimer's, macular degeneration, insomnia, depression and many more problems.
they couldn’t disprove light as a concept...so they embraced both sides of the argument and moved on!
there is no good evidence that either nutritional remedies or salts have any effect on survival in bacterial infections, or reducing the incidence or duration of bacterial infections (there is some weak evidence that cranberry juice might have a preventative effect for urinary tract infection in young, but not elderly women, but this still requires more evidence).
climate research logged in via email @hotmail.com score: +7 insightful + unconstructive - "the great danger" can be that conventional medicine is too slow to implement discoveries in the "natural medicine" field which have been every bit as much trialled as convectional medications.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: -3 insightful + unconstructive - "how about a reality check and a touch of perspective here?"
if you wanted me to be willing to disregard all my own eye-opening and life-changing experiences that i've had with acupuncture, which have had innumerable; ignore all of what i know empirically and intuitively to be true from being intimately involved with the subject for almost ten years, in favour of your sterile speculations about what you think should be the case, when i doubt you have any first hand experience of it at all, then you are mistaken.
this is a whole other debate.
one trial (http://bit.ly/74azmj) showed that the benefits of acupuncture may well be no more than placebo.
oh god, it must mean that its one of those damn natural medicines that has the potential to kill.
the teaching of these theories as valid science only serves to dumb everyone down.
an what is this obsession with the rockefellers?
this has thankfully changed and anatomy is now a major part of that course.
why should science-based medicine get its grubby little hands on these remedies with their flawed studies which are up to 90% flawed, to declare them useless and quack science?
i've addressed this in another comment here.
there is a rich living to be made by anyone prepared to prostitute the language — and the wonder — of science.
but not all herbal medicines are beneficial.
[irony intended] so what modern allopathic medicine tries to say is that degenerative disease is just a natural part of growing old, we should be content to live with just the symptoms being treated rather than finding a real cure.
then extol pharmaceutical drugs, which only treat symptoms, not the real cause of disease, as "safe and efficacious" despite the fact of often severe side effects and sometimes even withdrawal of products that have proven themselves "safe and efficacious".
if it occurs naturally, it can't be patented, which may be why successful therapies don't seem to enter into the mainstream medical lexicon.
“about a third wouldn’t have  anything to do with complementary medicine providers, another third were very  open to it – maybe too open – and the other third if they knew a  practitioner who got results they’d send people on.”
dr kevin dew professor of sociology, school of social and cultural studies, victoria university of wellington dr. at university of melbourne score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - "if the definition of evidence-based science was one that required double-blind trials then much of what is taught in medicine itself could be in danger of being classified as pseudo-science."
its all very practical pragmatic stuff, but in the ancient texts it talks about generating "qi".
i agree with ken and brian's comments here, it is disgusting to have universities and educated people support pseudo-science.
the benefits may well be due only to the interaction of the therapist with the patient and not the therapy itself.
group co-founder emeritus professor john dwyer from the university of nsw  said that fsm wants “vice-chancellors to ask their deans of science  what’s the heck’s going on …
i would encourage universities to direct their teaching in this direction rather than uncritical presentation of cam.
using the four evaluation techniques , the clinical pattern is revisited or retraced to evaluate whether the therapy achieved the aim of bringing about balance or harmony.
this is in stark contrast to many theologians who of course are virulently anti science.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -4 insightful + unconstructive - you have to accept that when the vast majority of well designed placebo controlled studies show no effect, and the few that do are so poorly described you can't actually understand what they do, then you can't calim acupuncture has been show to do anything.
and no, vaccinated people are not at increased risk of auotimmune disease.
it’s clearly showing that what we do is not much better than placebo.
this morning i heard abc radio national's fran kelly interviewing prof john dwyer, head of the lobby group for traditional medicine, and prof kerryn phelps, an advocate and pratitioner of 'integrative' medicine.
well that's good, lucky there's a choice i suppose.
there is never such a cut and dried answer if we are to be truly sophisticated.
do you believe it makes the food taste better?
i also like to remind myself that thousands of people spend countless hours ,in obscurity, trying to find answers,using those very principles that cam so often dismisses as not being applicable to itself.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - do you realise that chronic degenerative diseases are on the rise with no cures in sight?
placebo is thought to be any healing response that is induced by the patients mind, as opposed to the physical healing response effected by the drug in question (because the concept of placebo only has meaning in the context of a pharmaceutical drug trial).
“those universities involved in teaching  pseudoscience give such ideologies undeserved credibility, damage their  academic standing and put the public at risk,” the group’s letter  states.
let me start you off with what i know.
that favourite recipe your grandmother cooked for you as a child was actually wrong!!!
click here to get a copy of this article to republish.
when people thought the earth was spherical, they were wrong.
allopathic remedies aren't holistic and not good in the long run, but they are profitable.
part of what occurs during that derivation is the work to determine: what are the active ingredients what do they interact with what are the side effects what are their half lives (this affects dosing, short half life means frequent and often inconvenient dosing, long half life may mean the compound is in the system too long and this may be negative if there is a harmful side effect)
the journalist david h. freedman who wrote the article stating that up to 90% of studies is flawed, is the author of 'wrong: why experts keep failing us—and how to know when not to trust them'.
i'm not asserting it is a factor in her argument
the article you quoted doesn't say that either, so your statement of up to 90% is completely wrong.
the patients were divided into an acupuncture treatment group (n = 25), which received 30 minutes of acupuncture daily for 10 days, and a nonacupuncture control group (n = 20).
i think the jury is out on this one ian, and no matter how much denial you want to go into, just saying that vaccinations are safe isn't good enough given that the causes of so many auto-immune diseases are on the increase and without any known causes ie vaccination has to be considered as a possible cause.
this was not my intention.
there was a different outlook and a lack of clinical trial stringency that apply today.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - hi richard, can you provide a reference for this; "it is a universal principle analogous to the principle of "force" in physics", please?
responding to changes in blood pressure is a perfect example of this approach.
a touch of double standards, perhaps?
that is the ebm way and not always that effective at all with up to 90% flawed by some accounts.
like all ideals, it is a worthy goal, but human endeavors will never reach the fulfillment of ideal, be it of science or otherwise, so how will we make up for the lack in the meantime?
i did not mean to insinuate anything.
logged in via facebook score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - firstly ian, you're wrong straight up, all of what you said does that corresponds to japanese acupuncture techniques: yes non-penetrating needles, yes alternate meridian locations, yes tooth-pick like instruments that don't penetrate the skin at all (its called a 'teishin').
it's a placebo paper that uses sham acupuncture as one of the placebo arms.
what about the ~$2.5 billion / year big cam industry in australia?
we  prefer “author name, institution” (for example “bruce  mapstone, csiro”).
the concept of placebo is not relevant to acupuncture, therefore its ludicrous to say "the benefits of acupuncture may well be no more than placebo".
the increasing incidence of asthma may because our blood is too "pure", and we haven't been exposed to as many parasites as previous generations.
even if only 50% of scientific studies are flawed, what it means is that the scientific method isn't the be-all and end-all of what is true and correct.
of course, sham acupuncture is equivalent to real acupuncture in that niether have any real, objective effect.
you are mistaken, acupuncture was by no means a science in it traditional form, and the modern form is a very recent invention.
assistant professor, faculty of business and government at university of canberra score: +6 insightful + unconstructive -
there is a range of topics that have an element of conspiracy theory involved, including anything to do with politics, espionage, the way big corporations are run, the inventions that would benefit humanity that get suppressed due to reasons of "national security", much information / disinformation fed to the public is generated for purposes of social engineering and control, and profit of big corporations.
humans are great at fooling themselves, especially where there is a lot of subjective response involved (such as pain…show full comment some years ago there was a fad for painting whiteout on the edges (and or interior transparent bits) of cd's.
likewise, the earth may not orbit the sun.
and this includes the continuation of research into natural medicines etc where appropriate.
the herbal medicines comfery, kava, mua huang have all been withdrawn becuase of serious side effects.
you either accept that the research conducted is valuable, in which case both neck pain and nausea are shown to be treated effectively with acupuncture above and beyond the placebo effect, or else you don't accept the research is valuable (because of the reasons i have outlined) and thus are left with "merely" the mountains of clinical evidence to rely on.
typer logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: +5 insightful + unconstructive - i agree.
there is no equivalence between "the overwhelming consensus from a large body of evidence" and, say, mussolini.
professor of molecular medical science at university of sydney score: +10 insightful + unconstructive - as a signatory to the petition calling for the axing by universities of homeopathy, naturopathy, chiropractic and other courses based on pseudo-science i am shocked that any learned institution would teach gibberish alongside mainstream courses.
we  therefore ask all authors to disclose any potential conflicts of interest  before publication.
science is the best way we have to determine reality:we either value the ways we proceed to determine what is true or we have a recipe for chaos.
http://preview.tinyurl.com/35fe5kb http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2010/11/lies-damned-lies-and-medical-science/8269/ lies, damned lies, and medical science "though the results of drug studies often make newspaper headlines, you have to wonder whether they prove anything at all.
the two study groups differed significantly in terms of ltc4 generation by leucocytes after 4 weeks of dietary supplementation (p < 0.05).
yes, dr vagg, you're right.
i would suggest that cam suffers from a terrible case of immaturity.
no therapy gets to name its own mode of providing evidence; that is life, it is science, it is why we progress because the independence of evidentiary modality from the treatment modality hopefully helps with the progress of treatments.
you seem to think that the placebo controlled, double blind study is the contrivance of the pharmaceutical industry.
my last paper took 3 years between start and appearing in the literature.
perhaps you could look at the list of side effects above, including death, and explain the science behind kava being banned and ibuprofen being available in supermarkets.
dietary sources of alpha-linolenic acid, such as perilla seed oil, may have the capacity to inhibit the generation of leukotrienes (lts) by leucocytes in patients with asthma, as has been reported with the consumption of other long-chain n-3 fatty acids.
(for example, it is known that induction is not a means of obtaining proof).
in fact, it's a reason cited by many who choose cam.
failing to demonstrate this shows the practise for what it is.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - http://preview.tinyurl.com/35fe5kb http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2010/11/lies-damned-lies-and-medical-science/8269/ lies, damned lies, and medical science "much of what medical researchers conclude in their studies is misleading, exaggerated, or flat-out wrong.
“only 10-20% of all procedures currently used in medical practice have been shown to be efficacious by controlled trial.”
it is legal to sell here, and is freely available in most countries, and banned in others.
with regards to your criticism of acupuncture, let it be said that "qi" is not some mystical magical quackery, it is a universal principle analogous to the principle of "force" in physics.
its not a pretty picture
" conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive -
i think most of us, be we in clinical practice or in research, recognize this readily and will say that evidence for safety and efficacy are must-haves, but just as readily we see that no single methodology can lay claim to the whole of acceptable evidence.
but when testing a physical discipline, an interaction between people, its ludicrous to talk about "placebo" this and "sham" that, and the onus is on you to prove otherwise.
even if it works you have still devalued your entire academic enterprise.
his philanthropy was permeated with extremely racist views.
this is where i see the full effect of what the advances in western medicine can do in my role as an advanced care paramedic.
but even so, despite this and many other errors and limitations of these studies, even still, acupuncture is demonstrably effective, at least in the case of nausea and neck pain.
the power of simple exercise on depressive illnesses is the perfect example of this.
trials relating to homocysteine, for example, clearly indicate its dangers and links with various diseases - heart, cancer, birth defects - the list goes on.
pharmaceutical sales representative logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - some accounts...how about a few references for that statement so as to provide some robustness.
“they’re actually not that interested in evidence, because the  overwhelming evidence is that putting cam into universities has increased the  standards, decreased the fringe element, and improved public safety, so it  definitely smacks of dogmatism,” said dr wardle, who is a naturopath.
however, dr myers said that cam research at rmit was conducted in a  thoroughly scientific manner, with the nhmrc funding clinical trials of  alternative medicines.
check the history of the helsinki accord and the nuremburg code.
"cell salts do not react with medications because they are supplying minerals on a cellular level."
" e. ernst, myeong soo lee, tae-young choi acupuncture:
you have to credit the conversation and link back to our home page as  provided in the html.
doctors are usually quite busy and consults short, the cam therapist spends more time "listening to me" is a commonly reported reason many choose the therapy.
this type of clinical evaluation that is embedded in tcm practice is undertaken by employing the four examination techniques 'si zhen' as a clinical evaluation template or…show full comment traditional chinese medicine (tcm) is not a static body of medical knowledge.
acupuncturist logged in via email @hotmail.com score: +1 insightful + unconstructive -
i'm not sure what you mean by "benefit from scientific studies" but if you take a look at pubmed you'll not find it full of big pharma funding.
no magical thinking there.
acting head of the school dr ray myers has defended rmit’s health  science programs as “evidence-based education and practice”, citing  collaboration in clinical research of cam treatments funded by thenational  health and medical research council (nhmrc).
see 'something rotten at the core of science?', by david f. horrobin reprinted with permission from trends in pharmacological sciences, vol. 22, no. 2, february 2001 http://www.whale.to/vaccine/sci.html researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: insightful + unconstructive - hi carole, thanks for the link.
in fact rachael, this is a case of ignoring an important princple of acupuncture, so that when you look at the results, they seem skewed, but once you account for that one important principle of acupuncture, the results make sense.
prof phelps, it should be noted, has a vested interest in alternative medicine as she profits from it.
so the question is do we have the humility to accept the evidence and dump these theories.
http://chem.tufts.edu/__answersinscience/__relativityofwrong.htm logged in via facebook score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - not at all, what i'm saying is that the skill of acupuncture practitioners in china is higher.
what is wrong with your comprehension skills?
perhaps the wave, because it simply sounds more whack to you?
the crusades were not harmless.
firstly, the entire concept of testing acupuncture against a placebo is wrong-headed.
“there is a lot of crap, but there’s good stuff, and treating it like it’s all the same thing is very, very fraught.
“they love to say that there’s no such thing as complementary  medicine and conventional medicine, there’s just evidence-based and  non-evidence-based, but, for example, st john’s wort for over a decade  now has been shown to be equally as effective as any pharmaceutical indication  for mild to moderate depression, yet there’s still a large group of  doctors who refuse to integrate it simply because it’s a herbal  medicine,” dr wardle said.
every single time, tim.
the mentality of the time is an important factor, new drugs were hailed panaceas and commercialised without restrictions (penicillin was sold in ointments and throat lozenges when it was released), society was of the opinion we could eradicate all infectious diseases.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - i don't think the onus needs to be on alternative and traditional remedies to be scientifically proven.
the two concepts of force and qi are analogous, just expressed in a different language, and there's nothing magical or mystical about it, its straight up science.
“about a third wouldn’t have anything to do with complementary medicine providers, another third were very open to it – maybe too open – and the other third if they knew a practitioner who got results they’d send people on.”
maybe working with bias is the best way for people to be induced to heal themselves and improve their well-being, rather than waging a futile and fruitless fight against it.
well of course it has because the mainstream medicine couldn't afford to let it stand as it is one of the cornerstones of modern medicine.
perhaps i missed it in all your comments.
the letter laments the spread  of chiropractic studies to 19 australian universities, and complains that  ‘energy medicine’, ‘tactile healing’, homeopathy,  iridology, kinesiology, acupuncture, and reflexology are taught “as if  they were science”.
the authors stated the data is not reliable with several confounders and no conclusions can be made.
i think the public are entitled to try things out for themselves without interventional of ebm telling them what is good for them and what isn't.
but forcing every single practice in the health sciences to be measured with only one particular methodology that was designed by the pharmaceutical industry, for the pharmaceutical industry, and is only really applicable for measuring pharmaceutical substances, is unreasonable.
it can be a new application for the herb/drug/molecule as was the case for me.
sure, in the context of scientific research into new pharmacological compounds, it can be demonstrated why the concept of placebo is relevant.
the theory that infectious childhood diseases were eliminated solely by vaccination isn't really true.
also, that regulation based on hard evidence of safety and efficacy is paramount.
the holy grail of pharma companies are chronic diseases treated with patented drugs that can be evergreened long into the future.
and so can have no problems (by what logic?)
it lacks even the simplest checks and balances that modern medicine has, and you think this is a good thing?
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - we do know something about why some kava causes toxicity and other preps don't
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - some years ago there was a fad for painting whiteout on the edges (and or interior transparent bits) of cd's.
logged in via twitter score: -4 insightful + unconstructive - richard's magical thinking in his own words: "what i am saying is that the physiological affect of acupuncture does not derive from the needle, but from the force which inserts and manipulates the needle.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - maybe brian, you can come up with a list of signatories or a website for this friends of medical science group that you are signatory to.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - i see today's medicine as a type of clayton's medicine, ie the medicine you're having when you're not having medicine.
okamoto m, mitsunobu f, ashida k, mifune t, hosaki y, tsugeno h, harada s, tanizaki y, kataoka m, niiya k, harada m. source department of medicine, misasa medical branch, tottori, japan.makoto@cc.okayama-u.ac.jp abstract background:
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - ok.
serum levels of total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (ldl) cholesterol and phospholipid were significantly decreased by dietary supplementation in group a after 4 weeks.
however, in traditional chinese medicine, the prime principle of treatment is that "the mind leads the qi".
the patient's being on antibiotics makes them view the antimicrobial chemotherapy as the cure and not the unnecessary intervention, again driving over use.
and i think this was discovered after the german incident.
it is by strict adherence to theses principles that we make worthwhile discoveries that benefit us all.
the vast majority of placebo controlled studies are not well designed, because they do not account for the critical variable of practitioner skill.
i would also add that i support the teaching of cam in a comparative and critical thinking manner so that practitioners are equipped with the skills to analyse whether a product is evidence based.
do you think this is worthy of the redirection of funds away from modalities which are known not to work to?
“those universities involved in teaching pseudoscience give such ideologies undeserved credibility, damage their academic standing and put the public at risk,” the group’s letter states.
i have consulted chiropractic which saved me needing a tonsilectomy.
so there was in fact no difference in fev for placebo or sham acupuncture versus nothing, but patients thought there was!
tcm theory itself predicts this when it says: "the mind leads the qi, the qi leads the blood".
therein lies much of the problem with traditional medicine - patients must fit within a set of symptoms and increasingly, people are looking for alternatives where they are treated as individuals.
yes, we don't take one study on face value, we test them, in multiple ways.
however, the scientific method is considered to be the best method we have at this time.
just as there are different types of force in modern english language physics, there were different types of qi in ancient chinese language taoist…show full comment not at all brendano, its got nothing to do with magical thinking or pseudo-science, you think mocking me makes you look so cool, but it just makes you look small-minded and nasty.
not applicable for this conversation logged in via email @yahoo.com.au score: +4 insightful + unconstructive -
there are certain reports of children who's health takes a backward step after vaccination, reported by parents.
acupuncture we have shown is useful to reduce pain for certain conditions, and that is generally accepted now."
its evident you just don't care about patient's health, or about investigating new and exciting, interesting insights and modes of understanding.
at worst they are dangerous profiteers.
about 70 per cent of australians use cam and it thus makes sense for  research and training to be carried out within the regulation and scientific  rigour of the universities, dr wardle said.
the data is coming in and its not looking good.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - kava importation has been banned in australia becuase of liver toxicity.
curiosity about everything around us, drives us to find the best information we can about those things that cross our path.
the claims of fsm, however, ignore the evidence about cam in higher education, said dr wardle, a nhmrc research fellow at the university of queensland’s school of population health and co-director of the network of researchers in public health and complementary and alternative medicine ( norphcam), an international group promoting clinical research in cam.
group b consisted of those in whom ltc4 generation was not suppressed.
values of pef, fvc, fev(1) and maximum expiratory flow at 25% of the forced vital capacity (v(25)) differed significantly between groups a and b prior to dietary supplementation.
furthermore, skill of the practitioner is one of the decisive influences on the efficacy of the treatment, and because the issue of skill is not taken into account at all in the studies, the quality of the research conducted in the west is inferior to the quality of the research conducted in china.
pharmacognosy would be a more accurate term, which means the study of medicines derived from natural sources).
how many people were tested, and was the study done by vested interests.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - who cares what's in newpapers?
consider the turnover of a company like brauer natural medicine who sell distilled water and sugar pills for an exorbitant mark-up.
perhaps there is something in the degree at macquarie (which is where he studied) that allows this unscientific and frankly public health risk thinking be nurtured.
but the results were never anywhere near 90%, for any study.
yes it does, namely the unproven assumption that acupuncture is merely a placebo.
and you if you succeed in doing what you are trying to do.
but yet ian musgrove (above comment) says that importation of kava is banned in australia.
i can eliminate infections, parasites and fungi with cellsalts but this information is carefully hidden because the moment it becomes mainstream you can kiss pharmaceutical profits goodbye.
at the end of the day, this is all about what is best for our health.
citing the late ceo of apple, professor dwyer said that “steve jobs spent a year with his cancer of the pancreas trusting homeopathic remedies, and by the time he got to the surgeons it was all over.”
kava has of course been used for thousands of years with no apparent "serious side effects".
in addition there must be concerns about the power of pharma companies in mainstream medicine, where drugs are considered as the first response rather than adjusting lifestyle.
i see now that you have you fingers in your ears and you're chanting "la la la la, can't hear you!"
student logged in via email @zoho.com score:
all stuff big cam don't have to do.
rarely, more severe symptoms, such as gastrointestinal bleeding, seizures, metabolic acidosis, hyperkalaemia, hypotension, bradycardia, tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, coma, hepatic dysfunction, acute renal failure, cyanosis, respiratory depression, and cardiac arrest have been reported.
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive - evidence based medicine has become like some sort of religion, best to serve the interests of the pharmaceutical business.
it also states "...the findings have limited significance because of methodologic weaknesses such as small sample sizes, an absence of patient blinding to treatment in most cases, varying acupuncture treatment regimens, a lack of standard outcome measurements, and an absence of adequate randomization.
"this is scientific fascism".
despite being instructed to remove the presentation from his website following a complaint to the ccnsw, it re-appeared again recently.
it’s worth putting in some honest effort to understand it properly, undistracted by false wonder and prostituted pseudo-science.
the medical schools were funded by rockefeller donations, no doubt in return for some consideration to pharmaceutical solutions.
cheers conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive -
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: insightful + unconstructive - regarding importing you can bring up to 2 kg without the requirement for a permit http://www.health.gov.au/internet/main/publishing.nsf/content/importation-of-kava conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: insightful + unconstructive -
" as we can see from above, there is already a suitable clinical evaluation model that can be used in assessing the efficacy of tcm therapies.
mostly the people who benefit from scientific studies are the pharmaceutical business and they are keen to have all therapies go through this process in order to eliminate any competition.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -1 insightful + unconstructive -
serious adverse effects continue to be reported.
with regards to your criticism of acupuncture, let it be said that "qi" is not…show full comment you don't speak for cam practitioners, dave.
in 1901, the rockefeller institute for medical research was created.
this is the latest review of acupuncture studies, ian, and it proves that acupuncture does have objective physiological effects: http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/pdq/cam/acupuncture/healthprofessional/page5#section_trialsearch_35_sid_5 real objective effects, ian; read the review.
but what they started back in 19th century continues on today, it is an industrial medical monopoly that doesn't like competition and does what it can to talk it down and eliminate it.
what did you eat today?
on this basis most claims by so-called 'complementary medicine' practitioners are quackery and stand condemned.
it wants to be accepted by the big league through appeals to antiquity,to other ways of knowing and to special treatment.
it says: "the practitioner employs a delicate technique (using fine gold or silver needles inserted superficially or only touched to the skin)," and further down the page: "for those who are apprehensive of inserted needles, a whole treatment can be done with non-insertive techniques."
there is no objective truth, only a perspective on it.
the nutritional remedies for many diseases has been suppressed to favour a drug-based culture.
the reaction from the cam peeps on this issue just being raised (i mean seriously people, this is not government policy about to be introduced) is to behave like they are being persecuted.
“alternative medicine doesn’t do that – it’s more than happy to rely on tradition and anecdote and it doesn’t really want to be tested.”
they're written on http://www.naturalnews.com/028194_scott_reuben_research_fraud.html big pharma researcher admits to faking dozens of research studies for pfizer, merck (opinion) senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -2 insightful + unconstructive -
in may ways current medical practice encourages this.
he has been a tireless supporter of truth, for which cam enthusiasts have mercilessly personally attacked him.
“the project follows the promising results of pilot studies by rmit researchers, in which more than 1,000 patients received acupuncture treatment for acute pain relief at the emergency department of the northern hospital.”
apart from spreading staph.
the issue is whether the only valid or rational ground for knowledge is empirical.
phd candidate, molecular microbiology logged in via email @graduate.uwa.edu.au score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - sophistry.
ignore the names, evaluate the data.
conclusions: dietary supplementation with perilla seed oil in selected patients with asthma suppresses the generation of ltc4 and is associated with clinical features such as respiratory function and lipometabolism.
in fact, the needle itself is irrelevant, its just one particular technique among many, and it doesn't need to be used at all.
you can republish individual articles, but you can’t automatically  republish all of our articles unlessapproved by us.
aureus and a placebo effect, i'm yet to see any research that demonstrates…show full comment anything with an effect, physical or otherwise will be picked up in a sufficiently large study size.
so the best you can say is that that japanese-style acupuncture is as effective as chinese-style acupuncture, and that both are significantly effective treatments.
logged in via facebook score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - "the reason i know i am not wrong" how many times have i heard this self delusion from a quack.
in fact ian, as someone with experiential and intuitive understanding of this field, i know that the practice of acupuncture is as much an art as it is a science, and that the skill of the practitioner is of decisive consideration in determining how successful the therapy is.
and…show full comment
the misinformation regarding vaccination coming out of nimrod weiner's practice needs a public health warning in of itself.
there is a lot more harmful cam out there, which is not picked up by cam practitioners.
at the same time problem based learning in medical programs have not been tested for their effectiveness compared with the more rebust medical programs of a few decades ago.
it is a very old article however and there have been changes to peer review since 2001.
the point is that the scientific community was able to adapt.
if you had a machine to insert the needle, it would have an effect, but the effect would be different from if a human inserted the needle, because the force behind it was different.
“one of the complaints that we have about so-called alternative medicine is that it doesn’t strive to be tested.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - carole, please point out where i made a 1) "broad sweeping statement that a certain altie has got it all wrong".
universities are the places to test these ideas not teach them.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - actually richard, i've just written a review on acupuncture with edzard ernst (in press) and we found chinese studies were most likely biased towards being positive.
what i see is an industry hell bent on holding on to its pet pre-scientific theories despite its inability to prove them.
but there are nutritional cellsalt remedies that are not so well known.
strangely enough, we have learnt a thing or two about infections since the 1800's, pasteur's germ theory was established well before we had the first effective antibiotics in the 1950's (well, there were the sulphonamides in the late 30's, but they were limited in scope).
i´m with fsm on this.
imagine the tables were turned?
but at the same time i support courses that apply the blow-torch of scientific rigour and evidence-based medicine to when teaching herbal medicine, as at the university of sydney.
an update edzard ernst, j pain symptom manage.
the professions of chinese medicine, chiropractic and osteopathy are  government regulated, dr myers said, with rmit programs in these fields meeting  current professional standards and subject to external accreditation.
potassium containing salts will certainly interact with potassium sparing diuretics, angiotenisn converting enzyme inhibitors (possibly fatally) and digoxin, as they also operation on mineral at a cellular level.
if you don't accurately attribute the mechanism of physiological improvement, it would appear almost…show full comment did you read the article?
logged in via facebook score: +3 insightful + unconstructive - i don't see what you were trying to achieve anyway.
that no matter what the product, adherence to the evidence and quality science, not claims and sales pitches achieves the best results.
chiropractic is certainly not the dominant part of the  course.
partly it's forced us to change much of what we thought.
the few actual studies i found show no significant difference mri between electro-acupuncture and sham acupuncture.
but actually, thinking scientifically, we can see that its not the heart that directly causes blood circulation.
the medications subsequently had therapeutic licenses withdrawn, as a result of further studies.
the skeptical inquirer, 14(1), 35-44.
but i don't hold secular humanism up to be a virtue, and i don't hold militant scepticism up to be a virtue either.
merely, all that is asked is that sufficient evidence is provided for efficacy of a particular treatment modality.
if anyone knows of any i would appreciate a reply.
+9 insightful + unconstructive - there seems to be a misconception that science is a straightforward and simple way of proving or disproving the workings of the universe.
you cannot simply abolish particle theory because particle theory doesn't fit into the constraints of wave theory's parameters.
yes, yes we do (drug companies, who have been complaining bitterly about an "obstructionist" fda, will be surprised to learn that when their applications have been knocked back that were actually rubber stamped).
universities are not places to teach pseudoscience.
principal policy adviser logged in via email @telstra.com score: +5 insightful + unconstructive - human's health and well being clearly involve social and psychological factors as well as physiological factors.
phd candidate, molecular microbiology logged in via email @graduate.uwa.edu.au score: insightful + unconstructive - of course using a machine would have no effect, why?
if prof dwyer is unable to listen to questions put to him in an interview, as was evident, then he is probably unable to listen to his patients.
and so i bring to this discussion my experience as a member of the public, along with the ioannidis findings that many if not most studies, are flawed.
medicine, alternative medicine, higher education subscribe to our daily e-mail newsletter to receive our top stories each day—delivered straight to your inbox.
randomized controlled trials and placebo-controlled studies are effectively used to evaluate the efficacy of interventions.
i work in science, specifically in mnd research.
you, of course, are free to spend your money where you like, and believe whatever makes you comfortable.
your 'grave doubts' can be laid to rest.
" trust the force luke ... logged in via facebook score: -8 insightful + unconstructive - not at all brendano, its got nothing to do with magical thinking or pseudo-science, you think mocking me makes you look so cool, but it just makes you look small-minded and nasty.
and to test just one plant extract takes many years, much patience and mucho dinero, so there are still thousands that have not been tested.
ironically, drug companies don't like antibiotics because there is not a big enough profit in them.
and you do not need to test a placebo intervention when the the therapy is a relational interaction between practitioner and client.
http://psycnet.apa.org/index.cfm?fa=buy.optiontobuy&id=2004-15935-004 http://informahealthcare.com/doi/abs/10.1080/10253890500100240 http://www.nrcresearchpress.com/doi/abs/10.1139/h08-013
instead i will point out that even when acupuncture has been straight up tested, it still hasn't shown anything in terms of results.
equally the medical students would have lost an anatomy test against dentists because anatomy had been reduced to only a few hours.
hi richard far from closing my mind,i opened it up to the possibility that i might be wrong in my certitude on subjects that are terribly uncertain.
that (single) study which you garnered this erroneous belief from didn't even utilise real acupuncture at all, therefore no inference about real acupuncture maybe be objectively drawn from it.
comments welcome below.
the phenomenon has been investigated thoroughly.
most homeopaths reject vaccination, for example.
now look, there are other principles of science that can produce a physiological effect apart from biochemicals.
i believe that the reason there is so little proper research by the major supplement and complementary companies is that they have no commercial interest in proving their products don't work, and they are not currently oibliged to provide tga with evidence that they do work.
the "interaction of the therapist with the patient" is "the therapy itself".
today's children are more prone to various auto-immune diseases such as allegies and asthma.
+9 insightful + unconstructive -
it may be the case that the earth simply travels in a straight line, but the force of the gravity of the sun warps the very fabric of space itself, so that space is curved and thus the earth appears to orbit the sun.
this is a sad situation when cutting costs at universities overrides the quality of training for the next generation of doctors.
traditional medical practitioners are too fast to embrace - and prescribe - their miracle drugs and too slow to listen.
let me ask what would it take for you to change your mind?
you allopaths make me laugh, you accuse others of your own shortfallings.
science is self correcting in this manner.
worse, its harmful, very very harmful.
cam on the other had rarely has anything to do with the immune system (since when does coffee enemas alter the immune system), even the herbal remedies which do work have no relationship to the immune system (st. jogns wort is just another ssri, like fluoxitine) logged in via twitter score: insightful + unconstructive - int arch allergy immunol 2000 june 122 (2) 137-42 effects of perilla seed oil supplementation on leukotriene generation by leucocytes in patients with asthma associated with lipometabolism.
therefore their findings are questionable at least.
chinese medicine practitioner, acupuncturist, doctor of alternative medicine and advanced care paramedic logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: +5 insightful + unconstructive - as a practitioner of both cam and western medicine i feel that some of the academics responding to the argument of whether alternative medicine should be taugh at universities, have lost view of the big picture of what medicine is all about, by instead focussing their arguments on what entails
its clear that further discussion here will be unfruitful (for you, i'm actually quite enjoying it), so you may as well slink off and mutter resentfully to yourself or something.
in ionnadies original studies it wasn't even anywhere near 50% let alone 90%, and that was for cutting edge reports not all science (and most of them were gene chips, so it's not surprising that later, improved methods could find different effects).
chiropractic is certainly not the dominant part of the course.
they are very unilateral in their approach to the problems confronting contemporary science or technoscience which is a body of knowledge which is closely linked to society and nature and vice-versa.
i sat through his appallingly inaccurate 2 hour presentation about 12 months ago and was shocked by the unadulterated nonsense being spouted from his computer screen.
where they are literally engineered to the checklist.
do you think its any coincidence that the only elements of cam (specifically compounds from plants) that show up…show full comment you have evidence that using a machine would have no effect?
you're defending a lost position armed with nothing but intellectual blanks.
it's not even that, and the figures are for breaking research, which is then tested in follow-up studies.
licence to republish we license our articles under creative commons — attribution, no  derivatives.
i've always liked this quote: do you know what they call an alternative therapy that has passed double blind scientific trials?
because the taster in the lab at university for narrow-mindedness thinks that his system for proving the best apple pie is the only one that now matters in the world...quickly, shut down the schools, close the café, restaurant, and supermarket.
but in chinese medicine terms, antibiotics are not strictly proven effective for each individual they are prescribed.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - hi richard, i re-read my comment and it could be construed that i was implying real acupuncture was used in this trial.
ventilatory parameters such as peak expiratory flow (pef), forced vital capacity (fvc) and forced expiratory volume in 1 s (fev(1)) increased significantly after 4 weeks of dietary supplementation in group a (p < 0.05).
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -4 insightful + unconstructive -
chinese medicine embraces western medicine, look at china - walk in the hospital, take a ticket, see the doctor, get referred to blood test/x ray/ct/
what i am saying is that the physiological affect of acupuncture does not derive from the needle, but from the force which inserts and manipulates the…show full comment i have explained, numerous times trevor, how and why the concept of placebo is not relevant to acupuncture.
this is why i think this is a good conversation to have and i applaud fsm for taking the plunge.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -3 insightful + unconstructive - peer review is like democracy, the worst form of review except all those other forms that have been tried :-)
putting it into the universities diminishes the fringe element,” dr wardle said.
the “lesser universities” that have aroused the ire of fsm include the australian catholic university, charles sturt university, central queensland university, edith cowan university, macquarie university, monash university, murdoch university, rmit university, southern cross university, swinburne university, the university of ballarat, the university of new england, the university of newcastle, the university of queensland, the university of technology sydney, the university of western sydney, and the university of wollongong.
increasingly patients too are aware of the side effects of particular drugs.
the dosages required are often not likely to be ingested from normal "healthy" diets.
modern medicine is a racket that began in the 1800s with the likes of rockefellers and ama which have taken a dominance due to their approach to ridicule and rule out whatever competes with them.
"alternative medicine" in this instance describes such a diverse group of disciplines and treatments that the term, as they use it, is rendered meaningless.
yet as i have pointed out, "sham acupuncture" is not an inert treatment akin to placebo, in fact it is precisely similar to acupuncture techniques used in japanese schools of acupuncture that are centuries old.
even if it works you have still devalued your entire academic… i have a bachelor of health science in acupuncture, and i wish friends of science in medicine had been around a decade ago
“it should be a policy that all universities, higher education institutions, should not be involved in in this woolly teaching,” professor dwyer said, adding that “i suspect that these are well attended, popular, money-earning courses for cash-strapped universities.”
you can continue to ignore this, but don't try to perpetuate this pseudo-treatment because of ignorance of science.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: -1
logged in via facebook score: +2 insightful + unconstructive - you don't speak for cam practitioners, dave.
this is certainly true of chemotherapy tests, where the side effects make it impossible to 'hide' the nature of the treatment from doctors.
but, as the asthma paper which you misinterpreted shows, it is no differnt from placebo, and has no effect on objective measures of disease.
the critical aspect of the acupuncture treatment is the interaction between practitioner and client, and the skill with which the practitioner applies the techniques which is appropriate to both the particular unique client and with respect to the practitioner's particular unique abilities.
this whole witch-hunt against us is a massive waste of time.
i think belief in a deity is perfectly justified, and i believe having a curious attitude towards unconventional practices is valuable as well.
it's an example that i use often.
the concept of placebo is not relevant to acupuncture, therefore its ludicrous to say "the…show full comment science is observation and deducting, theorizing and testing, and acupuncture was one of the very first sciences in the world.
since back in 1800s there has been a drive to eliminate any / all competition to standard pharmaceutical medicine as it has the push of the pharmaceutical business behind it.
imagine if we were to say, "we've been looking with our own two eyes and we still haven't seen any of this so-called 'force' you physicists keep banging on about".
the studies that are done often don't prove a real lot and are in exclusive rarified topics often, while the incidence of chronic ill health continue to increase.
but fsm is not buying it.
see this powerpoint presentation from a leading chiropractor and gnash your teeth in frustration, that this is standard chiropractic teaching.
assessing the efficacy and safety of medical technologies.
like western medicine, chinese medicine has also evolved from thousands of years of intuition, trial and error, serendipity, case studies, scholarly advances, experiments etc.
in the 1800s there were some top scientists (bechamp, virchow) who thought the internal milieu / environment was more important than the germs, and as long as it was in good nick the person had natural immunity.
what this tells us is that the integration of placebo (including psychological techniques and active listening) can be used to alleviate symptoms by altering perception of illness.
its not up to me to prove why acupuncture should be exempt (because you can't prove a negative), its up to you to prove why acupuncture should be tested according to the methodology, which to any clear and objective thinker it seems suitable *only for pharmaceutical drug trials.
perhaps those who seek to justity and advance scientifically evidenced based cam could advance their cause by naming shaming and indeed osracising those who promote anti-scientific and pseudo scientific nonsense so as it can be clearly seen that the issue is about evidence not modality.
then i'm out i'm afraid.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: -1 insightful + unconstructive - carole, please point out where i made a "broad sweeping statement that a certain altie has got it all wrong".
the only way to surely do this is to take from both sides of medicine the treatment that meets best meets the immediate and long term needs of the patient.
but it nevertheless wants to be treated seriously.
http://rationalwiki.org/wiki/special_pleading logged in via facebook score: insightful + unconstructive - "here we have richard present a textbook example of the logical fallacy called 'special pleading', where a standard of proof is required for all medical interventions except acupuncture.
have i seen the industry contest or reject its own stupidities like live blood analysis or "detoxing" when it can't name one toxin that its methods supposedly detox.
look at this review: it shows that there is evidence that is suggestive of electro-conductivity properties in acupuncture points and meridians, exactly like is predicted in tcm theory: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/bem.20403/abstract;jsessionid=5a4c7e7d2acb7d61f0ae0a49883d860a.d02t03?systemmessage=wiley+online+library+will+be+disrupted+4+feb+from+10-12+gmt+for+monthly+maintenance i believe its more biased of somebody with no intimate knowledge of a subject area to dogmatically oppose it than it is for somebody with deep understanding of a subject area to passionately advocate for it.
there are many ways a study can go wrong, including being set up the wrong way, and not taking enough factors into account.
scientific evidence based research
this witch-hunt must end.
reiterating previous points, some elements of cam (specifically compounds from plants) have a clinically significant function.
the studies were generally poor in quality and limited by small sample size and multiple confounders.
all information is imperfect.
you've already been corrected on the 90% fallacy.
since when were newspapers the arbiter of what is right in science and medicine?
this sentence from a popular site talking about cell salts is dnagerously wrong.
consider, for example, this us government website http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ which lists trials, and their national institutes of health.http://nih.gov/ which conduct them.
" "taken as a whole, a rigorous evaluation of the published evidence leads to the conclusion that acupuncture is no more effective than placebo, and it is not risk free.
the reason we practice medicine in whatever form or research in medically related fields, should be to relieve human suffering by providing relief of disease and its symptoms… as a practitioner of both cam and western medicine i feel that some of the academics responding to the argument of whether alternative medicine should be taugh at universities, have lost view of the big picture of what medicine is all about, by instead focussing their arguments on what entails
yes, i read the paper jarrad, and it said that 7 out of 9 studies into the electro-conductivity properties of acupuncture yielded positive correlation and that the findings were suggestive.
the chinese themselves recognised this universal principle of physics, and referred to it as "qi".
the procedure of acupuncture itself is actually a skill, like surgery, upon which the efficacy of the therapy hangs.
this is why this discussion needs to and should be taking place.
chiropractic and osteopathy were areas in which clinical research was limited, but rmit’s education program incorporated the “best available evidence, while promoting further clinical research into these treatments,” dr myers said.
if you listen they all seem to have the same responses to any arguments that are pro-cam.
i remember it first being banned in germany, and the reason then was that it became trendy for a while, and there was not enough supply to fill the demand, and shady growers and possibly unknowing suppliers who bought kava from those growers, started manufacturing kava using the leaves and peelings…show full comment kava is an interesting example to use.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: insightful + unconstructive - i'm about to do that to southern cross university, who it turns out teach homoeopathy http://www.scu.edu.au/coursesin2012/?action=unit&command=load_unit&spk_no=12438 http://www.scu.edu.au/coursesin2012/?action=unit&command=load_unit&spk_no=12431 conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: +1 insightful + unconstructive -
on another note, i challenge any contender, (if you've even bothered to actually learn, not just criticise) explain how chinese medicine works?
as one veteran tcm practitioner summed up in 1983: " changes which occur in the patient's condition after the administration of the therapeutic remedy is the clear mirror which tests the efficacy of the practitioner's formula set on the basis of the therapeutic method.
he was in the pharmaceutical business, and probably worked out that he could only sell his useless remedies to so many people before they started to wake up, so got some better remedies that worked.
in doing this they actually do a disservice to their industry as such claims are not credible and so expose themselves to ridicule and unfortunately more robust practices may get caught up in the ridicule.
however, when the treatment is interaction between humans, the notion that the concept of placebo could be relevant in any way at all is patently absurd.
it is up to evidence based science to show that its studies are correct - which they are not entirely.
i have personally seen many patents for proprietary combinations of herbs and other preparations.
there is no correlation and causation in tcm, just a web of interconnectedness that allows us to escape the shackles of linear thinking and be broad-minded and lateral about our approach to patient care.
researcher and communications officer at heart research institute score: insightful + unconstructive - hi carole, with all due respect are you a research scientist?
it was only picked up as being toxic to human foetuses (and then only in a very narrow window of time), because we had a system of adverse drug surveillance in place.
however, the budding pharmaceutical business decided to run with pasteur's germ theory.
wake up to the reality of a university-it is where revolution takes place, it is where learning occurs, and breakthroughs happen, society grows stronger with new knowledge.
typer logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - a “schedule iv”, i believe.
how disingenuous of you ian musgrave and rachel dunlup to insinuate that a trial which didn't even involve real acupuncture can give meaningful insight into the practice of real acupuncture.
i just patented an amino acid that you can buy in the supermarket.
please don't equate what appears in the papers to what scientists are discovering.
i was just coming to the conclusion that ian is repetitive and wrong on many things, and in fact reminds me of the typical skeptic type with biased outlooks.
sure why its practitioners persist in maintaining these daft ideas.
acupuncture: does it alleviate pain and are there serious risks?
the complementary healthcare council, which is the…show full comment alvin, i can reassure you that the problem-based learning approach has been critically examined repeatedly and does in fact lead to more effective learning not just in medicine but in other areas where it is applied with some consideration.
but it still doesn't require explanation with unproven assumptions.
if you don't understand why false information about vaccination is dangerous then i suggest you do some research of your own.
correlation is not causation, and humans having poor association skills, often attributing cure to inert therapies used during the normal repair process.
well then what is your supposition as to why chinese studies (which in my opinion are the most sound) consistently find that it does work?
2) said all cam is wrong.
a review of reviews pain, volume 152, issue 4, april 2011, pages 755-764 "it is debatable whether it would not be preferable to be more blunt and express clearly that the evidence is simply not positive."
peer review is not perfect - indeed it's how andrew wakefield's article about mmr and autistic colitis got through and look…show full comment hi carole, thanks for the link.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: insightful + unconstructive - no, this exchange emphasizes the need to consult the original literature, rather than relying on interview sound bites which may distort the actual intent of the interviewee.
so this study would be one of the faulty ones.
this trial has no inferable relevance to real acupuncture at all!
work done on original active ingredients may include modifications to reduce drug interactions, provide a more favourable half life just as examples.
and yes, chinese medicine practitioners keep clinical records, that case study evidence is retrievable.
having someone listen and validate you is known to relieve stress and anxiety, which…show full comment of course using a machine would have no effect, why?
conservationist logged in via email @iimetro.com.au score: +2 insightful + unconstructive -
this makes sense because double-blind trials i.e. hiding the nature of the treatment from both the patient and doctor are often impossible in biomedical treatments. .
no, it embraces them instead.”
will we blindly push on anyway in denial of our limited capabilities, hoping that if we keep our attention on chasing our limited scope of reality that the all the rest of it…show full comment it's not sophistry, it illustrates a point: science as a practice, and the scientific method as an application of that practice, are an ideal.
acupuncturist logged in via email @hotmail.com score: insightful + unconstructive - "in other areas, the evidence is much more positive.
there is no good evidence that "schuessler cell salts" do anything to bacterial infections.
it doesn't matter whether an intervention is a substance or a device you need to test a placebo intervention because patient (and physician/ therapist) expectations can affect the results, especially in situations where there is a strong subjective component like pain.
it's relevant to the placebo discussion.
do you think the health of the nation will be improved if all those people with sore necks and nausea are no longer able to claim their acupuncture treatments through private health insurance?
even these need to be researched and supported by evidence before being accepted.
and if we find there are no issues then all is good and dandy!
i think ian addressed this effectively in his responses to you.
one of old man rockefeller's quotes was "competition is a sin".
to quote richard dawkins;"there is no obvious limit to human gullibility.
in reality, that just means generating force to be expressed as powerful kicks and punches.
enter alternative medicine ...pharma drugs for life, no thanks!!
placebo testing was designed and is used for isolating out the effect of human interaction when evaluating the physiological effect of a pharmaceutical compound.
from what i read, the rockefeller family will do anything to make a buck including getting rid of any competition.
which as a matter of fact, is part of the reason why this website was established.
the friends of medical science should back down or risk being classified as friends of pharmaceutical science.
as i said, naturopathy has provided western medicine with, at the very least, over 120 compounds and counting.
no, i don't think that alternative medicine should have all its remedies "scientifically tested" since up to 90% of such studies are flawed.
pharmaceutical drugs don't cure, they merely suppress symptoms.
we have to treat it with humility.
pharmaceutical sales representative logged in via email @optusnet.com.au score: +1 insightful + unconstructive - you have yet to explain how and why the concept of placebo is not relevant to acupuncture.
logged in via facebook score: +11 insightful + unconstructive - my career in cam spans 25 years and i´m an ex herbalist.
senior lecturer in pharmacology at university of adelaide score: -2 insightful + unconstructive - it is not the latest review (it's 2012 update was merely a name change).
consider the following: “more than half of all medical treatments, and perhaps as many as 85 percent, have never been validated by clinical trials.”
thus educational institutions risk treading a dangerous path unless they rigorously evaluate each kind of 'alternative' course before permitting its introduction.
indeed, given the breadth of the potential problems raised at the meeting, can any medical-research studies be trusted?that question has been central to ioannidis’s career.
i guess the science isn't settled?