the field of pain research is rapidly expanding in both human and veterinary medicine, and has helped increase our understanding of acupuncture.
this book seeks to challenge common misgivings by showing how veterinary acupuncture works (for small and large animals), and why it should be established as an orthodox form of treatment.
about the author samantha lindley works in acupuncture referrals and behavioural  consultancy.
not intended as a techniques manual, this book is a preparatory text for those considering taking an acupuncture course and those wishing to gain a solid understanding of the subject.
mike cummings is currently employed by the british medical acupuncture society, as director of education and medical director of their london teaching clinic.
this  book seeks to challenge common misgivings by showing how veterinary acupuncture  works (for small and large animals), and why it should be established as an  orthodox form of treatment.
written from a western approach, rather  than a traditional chinese medicine approach, it explains the background and  history of acupuncture and includes key information on safety aspects,  understanding pain and how acupuncture can help, practical aspects such as  types of needles and methods of restraint, and related techniques.
however, many are still highly sceptical about the use of acupuncture and prefer for it to remain far from orthodox veterinary practice.
written from a western approach, rather than a traditional chinese medicine approach, it explains the background and history of acupuncture and includes key information on safety aspects, understanding pain and how acupuncture can help, practical aspects such as types of needles and methods of restraint, and related techniques.
by  samantha lindley, thomas michael cummings $79.99 availability: immediate download description the field of pain research is rapidly expanding in both human and  veterinary medicine, and has helped increase our understanding of acupuncture.
however, many are still highly sceptical about the use of acupuncture and  prefer for it to remain far from orthodox veterinary practice.
samantha lindley works in acupuncture referrals and behavioural consultancy.
essentials of western veterinary acupuncture (google ebook)
product details sku: fbuz8kggivcc
she also teaches animal behaviour therapy at glasgow university  veterinary school and has other teaching responsibilities at the vet school in  edinburgh.
not intended as a techniques manual, this book is a preparatory text for those  considering taking an acupuncture course and those wishing to gain a solid  understanding of the subject.
mike cummings is currently employed by the british medical  acupuncture society, as director of education and medical director of their  london teaching clinic.
she also teaches animal behaviour therapy at glasgow university veterinary school and has other teaching responsibilities at the vet school in edinburgh.