disease is proposed to result from the flow of qi being  disrupted and yin and yang becoming imbalanced.
what is referred to as illness by western medicine is considered in traditional chinese medicine to be a matter of disharmony or imbalance" (alternative medicine encyclopedia.
traditional chinese medicine seeks to harmonize and  rebalance the entire human system rather than to treat just symptoms.
accessed on 6 july 2007 from  http://www.answers.com/topic/traditional-chinese-medicine?cat=health) © copyright 2010-2011,
tcm is based on a concept of balanced qi (pronounced "chee"), or  vital energy, that is believed to flow throughout the body.
all rights reserved - global information  hub
it emphasizes diet and prevention and using  acupuncture, herbal medicine, massage, and exercise; and focuses on stimulating  the body's natural curative powers".
there is no distinct demarcation between clinical medicine and public health practice.
the therapies usually considered under the heading of classic  chinese medicine include acupunture and moxibustion, dietary regulation, herbal  remedies, massage and therapeutic exercise.
these forms of treatments are based upon beliefs that differ from the disease concept favored by western medicine.
the basic concepts underlying all chinese medical therapies are the  taoist doctrine of yin and yang (the theory of opposites); the five elements  (metal, wood, water, fire, and earth); and "qi" (pronounced chee),  the vital energy of life that circulates in the human body via a system of  pathways.
chinese traditional medicine considers a person's well-being physically and mentally.
its continuing medical goal is to detect and correct abnormalities before they cause permanent physical damage".
it emphasizes diet and prevention and using acupuncture, herbal medicine, massage, and exercise; and focuses on stimulating the body's natural curative powers".
what is referred to as illness by western medicine is considered in traditional  chinese medicine to be a matter of disharmony or imbalance" (alternative medicine encyclopedia.
(medical encyclopedia.
"a range of traditional medical practices originating in china that developed over several thousand years.
traditional chinese medicine seeks to harmonize and rebalance the entire human system rather than to treat just symptoms.
chinese traditional  medicine considers a person's well-being physically and mentally.
tcm is a form of oriental medicine, which includes other traditional east asian medical systems such as traditional japanese, and korean medicine" (wikipedia.
its continuing medical goal is to detect and correct  abnormalities before they cause permanent physical damage".
accessed on 6 july 2007 from  http://www.answers.com/topic/traditional-chinese-medicine?cat=health) "a range of traditional medical practices originating in china that  developed over several thousand years.
among the components of tcm are herbal and nutritional therapy, restorative physical exercises, meditation, acupuncture, and remedial massage" (http://nccam.nih.gov/health/whatiscam/ - accessed on 6 july 2007) "an ancient and still very vital holistic system of health and healing, based on the notion of harmony and balance, and employing the ideas of moderation and prevention.
these practices include theories, diagnosis and treatments such as herbal medicine, acupuncture and massage; often qigong is also strongly affiliated with tcm.
home traditional & complementary medicine (t&cm)  t&cm
forgot your username?
accessed on 6 july 2007 from http://www.answers.com/topic/traditional-chinese-medicine?cat=health) chinese traditional medicine comprises four interrelated therapies: zhong yao (herbal medicine), zhen jiu (acupuncture and moxibustion), qi gong (vital energy exercises), and tui na (therapeutic massage), although some purists prefer not to include the latter two theories.
accessed on 6 july 2007 from  http://www.answers.com/topic/traditional-chinese-medicine?cat=health) chinese traditional medicine comprises four interrelated therapies: zhong  yao (herbal medicine), zhen jiu (acupuncture and moxibustion), qi gong (vital  energy exercises), and tui na (therapeutic massage), although some purists  prefer not to include the latter two theories.
qi is proposed to  regulate a person's spiritual, emotional, mental, and physical balance and to  be influenced by the opposing forces of yin (negative energy) and yang  (positive energy).
"an ancient and still very vital holistic system of health and  healing, based on the notion of harmony and balance, and employing the ideas of  moderation and prevention.
since  proper internal balance is considered to be the key to human health, tcm  strives to cure disease by restoring that balance and therefore allowing the  body to repair itself.
these practices include theories,  diagnosis and treatments such as herbal medicine, acupuncture and massage;  often qigong is also strongly affiliated with tcm.
qi is proposed to regulate a person's spiritual, emotional, mental, and physical balance and to be influenced by the opposing forces of yin (negative energy) and yang (positive energy).
disease is proposed to result from the flow of qi being disrupted and yin and yang becoming imbalanced.
there is no distinct demarcation  between clinical medicine and public health practice.
tcm is based on a concept of balanced qi (pronounced "chee"), or vital energy, that is believed to flow throughout the body.
it approaches health with due consideration to nature in all its complexity and multidimensionality.
therapies traditional chinese medicine definition "is the current name for an ancient system of health care from china.
enhancing natural healing is central to chinese medical  practice.
accessed on 6 july from  http://www.answers.com/topic/traditional-chinese-medicine?cat=health) "is based on a set of interventions designed to restore balance to  human beings.
it approaches  health with due consideration to nature in all its complexity and  multidimensionality.
forgot your password?
the basic concepts underlying all chinese medical therapies are the taoist doctrine of yin and yang (the theory of opposites); the five elements (metal, wood, water, fire, and earth); and "qi" (pronounced chee), the vital energy of life that circulates in the human body via a system of pathways.
on integrated medicine (globinmed) login form
"is the current name for an ancient system of health care from china.
accessed on 6 july 2007 from http://www.answers.com/topic/traditional-chinese-medicine?cat=health)
enhancing natural healing is central to chinese medical practice.
accessed on 6 july from http://www.answers.com/topic/traditional-chinese-medicine?cat=health) "is based on a set of interventions designed to restore balance to human beings.
the therapies usually considered under the heading of classic chinese medicine include acupunture and moxibustion, dietary regulation, herbal remedies, massage and therapeutic exercise.
among the components of tcm are  herbal and nutritional therapy, restorative physical exercises, meditation,  acupuncture, and remedial massage" (http://nccam.nih.gov/health/whatiscam/ - accessed on 6 july 2007)
tcm is a form of oriental  medicine, which includes other traditional east asian medical systems such as  traditional japanese, and korean medicine" (wikipedia.
(public health encyclopedia.
these forms of treatments are based  upon beliefs that differ from the disease concept favored by western medicine.
since proper internal balance is considered to be the key to human health, tcm strives to cure disease by restoring that balance and therefore allowing the body to repair itself.
"a complete system of health-care with its own unique theories of anatomy, health, and treatment.
"a complete system of health-care with its own unique theories of  anatomy, health, and treatment.