i hated their disapproving looks at me when  i wore something elegant that suits my age, personality, and taste and maybe  even drew attention moderately and with modesty (what’s wrong with that?).
even my girlfriends’ thoughts became  dominated by the stinky, radical, male-inspired ideas of the necessity of  covering (hijab) the woman because she is a source of temptation that must be  hidden.
no going out on the  street with tight jeans or a shorter shirt.
now i want a response to my question.
did religion and  morals become just superficial facades that have no base, importance, or  meaning?
i hated their silly remarks as if i was wearing what the belly dancers wore and not a normal jeans and shirt.
no need to put make-up or do my hair or pay too much attention to my looks.
i came up with a theory, which at the time i thought was brilliant.
why would i do that and for whom?
a group of at least 15 young men blocked our way in a busy  main road that was well lit.
we found ourselves encircled in fury of holding, touching, groping, and probing accompanied by dirty words and vulgar language describing what each one of them was doing or wanted to do to us.
the strange thing  is that there were a lot of people on the street that saw the act but walked on  minding their own business.
i changed the way i dress, and i neglected the way  i look, yet i started to be experience a new type of harassment.
no, sorry, they’re different but not less.
the strange thing is that there were a lot of people on the street that saw the act but walked on minding their own business.
no going out on the street with tight jeans or a shorter shirt.
i hated the street, the people, and my looks, and i was on the verge of real depression until i decided to change my life and move to my uncles place in cairo.
and is this a retarded male ideology or sexual suppression, or  anger or what exactly?
should i not walk on the street?
it was the first time i was  touched in those parts of my body, and the first time i heard the words that  were spoken, which i never imagined would ever be said to me.
now  i want a response to my question.
i got scared of walking on the streets and started making rules on what i should and shouldnt do to protect myself from their hungry eyes and hungry hands.
a group of at least 15 young men blocked our way in a busy main road that was well lit.
do men in egypt really believe that sexual harassment and rape are earned rights?
yes, cairo is bigger and the peasants are less and the harassments are  less.
i will not forget the first time this happened when i was walking on the street on eid as well.
i  came up with a theory, which at the time i thought was brilliant.
should i not go to live shows?
i was about 15 at the time.
all the men around him would have the same reaction as if i was crazy and nothing happened.
no going out at all in the streets  where the youth hang out for hours, which are well known in my small town.
why  would i do that and for whom?
i never forgot, and never will, my feelings at the time.
oh and what do you know about  neighbors?
what was  strange was that some of it was worse than before, but i didn’t give up.
i was walking with my cousin, who is 3 years my elder, and with my aunt in the middle.
i won’t be touched  in every street but i can buy a 150le ticket for live western band, meaning the  people are mostly well-off and educated, and still get harassed by large  numbers as if there was an implied agreement between the youth to do so.
so it  wasn’t just for the sake of it, and it might have been all because i am  not ugly.
so i shouldn’t really  take my liberty in wearing what i want as every place has it’s stature.
my only experience of this is weak and superficial gentlemanliness that was mostly closer to flirting than anything else.
i hated the  street, the people, and my looks, and i was on the verge of real depression  until i decided to change my life and move to my uncle’s place in  cairo.
the stray dogs and cats walk go on the  streets with no trouble!
i grew older and body changed, but i always thought that it was a good thing not something to be ashamed of ,or a source of harassment that my young mind and life-loving heart did not comprehend.
this happened when i was walking on the street on eid as well.
no  need to put make-up or do my hair or pay too much attention to my looks.
posted by kirsten n. namskau thursday, november 16, 2006 i have borrowed this from the blogg of “mechanical crowds”  http://mechanicalcrowds.blogspot.com/ this woman gives the western  world, by her story, the reason for why some women in the arab world prefer to  use hijab, veil, burka … call it what you want, but they want to cover, so  no one can see if the person under is a young beautiful darling or an old,  dirty, tooth-less grandma.
posted by kirsten n. namskau i have borrowed this from the blogg of mechanical crowds http://mechanicalcrowds.blogspot.com/ this woman gives the western world, by her story, the reason for why some women in the arab world prefer to use hijab, veil, burka call it what you want, but they want to cover, so no one can see if the person under is a young beautiful darling or an old, dirty, tooth-less grandma.
(is that a crime???)anyways, i never thought i would ever see a day  worse than this, or get harassed any more awful than this.
my only experience of this is weak and superficial  gentlemanliness that was mostly closer to flirting than anything else.
i never  forgot, and never will, my feelings at the time.
are the women in egypt now lower than cats and dogs?
i wont be touched in every street but i can buy a 150le ticket for live western band, meaning the people are mostly well-off and educated, and still get harassed by large numbers as if there was an implied agreement between the youth to do so.
yes, cairo is bigger and the peasants are less and the harassments are less.
someone tell me, what happened to egypt?
i lived in a small town that was surrounded by small villages.
islamic research foundation international, inc. seeking advancement of knowledge through spiritual and intellectual growth shareshare articles 1 - 1000 | articles 1001-2000 | articles 2001 - 3000 | articles 3001 - 4000 | articles 4001 - 5000 | articles 5001 - 6000 | all articles why do some women want to use burka or hijab?
islamic research foundation international, inc. seeking advancement of knowledge through spiritual and intellectual growth share articles 1 - 1000 | articles 1001-2000 | articles 2001 - 3000 | articles  3001 - 4000 | articles 4001 - 5000 | articles 5001 - 6000 |  all articles family and children | hadith | health | hijab | islam and  christianity | islam and medicine | islamic personalities | other | personal  growth | prophet muhammad (pbuh) | qur'an | ramadan | science | social issues |  women in islam | why do some women want to use burka or hijab?
so i shouldnt really take my liberty in wearing what i want as every place has its stature.
it’s enough that i used  taxis to go to my friends’ houses or any other closed place.
from their ignorance and stupidity.
what was strange was that some of it was worse than before, but i didnt give up.
where is the egyptian  manliness, dignity, and altruism that we’ve been hearing about since the  day we were born?
after a short time, these harassments started repeating again: an animal on a bike would touch me from behind and sometimes the front as he quickly goes by, very dirty looks from shopkeepers, taxi drivers, and neighbors.
forget that, someone tell me what happened to the people?
i was about 15  at the time.
maybe thats from what they experienced too and maybe its from their ignorance and stupidity.
suddenly they divided into 2 groups and approached  us from the both sides.
i hated their silly remarks as if i was wearing what the belly dancers wore and  not a normal jeans and shirt.
all the men  around him would have the same reaction as if i was crazy and nothing happened.
and when i look ahead someone else would touche me and the same thing repeats  over and over again.
should  i not go to live shows?
where is the egyptian manliness, dignity, and altruism that weve been hearing about since the day we were born?
i dont even need to go on the street, as its no longer the place for people who want to maintain their self-respect.
i was walking with my cousin, who is 3 years my elder, and with my  aunt in the middle.
you can also read this blogg, if you have interest http://egylife.blogspot.com/ source:    http://kirsten-namskaus-blogg.blogspot.com/2006/11/why-do-some-women-want-to-use-burka-or.html please report any broken links to webmaster copyright ©  1988-2012 irfi.org.
so it wasnt just for the sake of it, and it might have been all because i am not ugly.
it was the first time i was touched in those parts of my body, and the first time i heard the words that were spoken, which i never imagined would ever be said to me.
i am from zaqaziq, and until recently i thought that i was one of the few people who went through unusual personal experiences of sexual harassment, which i suffered from since i was little .
should i not swim when i go to alexandria?
and is this a retarded male ideology or sexual suppression, or anger or what exactly?
do men in egypt really believe that sexual harassment and rape are  earned rights?
i am from zaqaziq, and until recently i  thought that i was one of the few people who went through unusual personal  experiences of sexual harassment, which i suffered from since i was  little….
i will not forget the first time
i hated their disapproving looks at me when i wore something elegant that suits my age, personality, and taste and maybe even drew attention moderately and with modesty (whats wrong with that?).
its enough that i used taxis to go to my friends houses or any other closed place.
maybe that’s from what they experienced too and maybe it’s
please report any broken links to webmaster copyright © 1988-2012 irfi.org.
i changed the way i dress, and i neglected the way i look, yet i started to be experience a new type of harassment.
and when i look ahead someone else would touche me and the same thing repeats over and over again.
after a short time,  these harassments started repeating again: an animal on a bike would touch me  from behind and sometimes the front as he quickly goes by, very dirty looks  from shopkeepers, taxi drivers, and neighbors.
no, sorry, theyre different but not less.
i got scared of walking on  the streets and started making rules on what i should and shouldn’t do to  protect myself from their hungry eyes and hungry hands.
i  would feel a touch in a sensitive area and turn to that direction to shout and  fight but find a very cool and innocent response from the man.
you can also read this blogg, if you have interest http://egylife.blogspot.com/ source: http://kirsten-namskaus-blogg.blogspot.com/2006/11/why-do-some-women-want-to-use-burka-or.html
i lived in a  small town that was surrounded by small villages.
(is that a crime???)anyways, i never thought i would ever see a day worse than this, or get harassed any more awful than this.
i change my spot but another animal or animals would harass me in the same way as if its a group sex party not a concert.
did religion and morals become just superficial facades that have no base, importance, or meaning?
oh and what do you know about neighbors?
the stray dogs and cats walk go on the streets with no trouble!
no, since i was very little.
i would feel a touch in a sensitive area and turn to that direction to shout and fight but find a very cool and innocent response from the man.
even my girlfriends thoughts became dominated by the stinky, radical, male-inspired ideas of the necessity of covering (hijab) the woman because she is a source of temptation that must be hidden.
we found ourselves encircled in fury of holding,  touching, groping, and probing accompanied by dirty words and vulgar language  describing what each one of them was doing or wanted to do to us.
i grew older and body changed, but i always thought that it was a  good thing not something to be ashamed of ,or a source of harassment that my  young mind and life-loving heart did not comprehend.
should i not swim when  i go to alexandria?
suddenly they divided into 2 groups and approached us from the both sides.
i change my spot but another animal or animals would  harass me in the same way as if it’s a group sex party not a concert.
i  don’t even need to go on the street, as it’s no longer the place for  people who want to maintain their self-respect.
no going out at all in the streets where the youth hang out for hours, which are well known in my small town.