importantly, your educational requirements will also vary according to where you live.
in addition to certification programs,  some specialties within alternative medicine expect students to complete  apprenticeships.
many practitioners of alternative medicine, especially those in private  practice, do not accept forms of health insurance as payment for their  services.
the appearance of a school listing on this website should not be interpreted as an endorsement by the school of this site.
â - doula: since the beginning of human kind, women have been having babies outside of hospitals.
in our society, many people are convinced that the conventional or "western" way of treating medical ailments is the only way.
if you're looking  for answers, submit your questions to our education experts to get the  conversation started.
educational requirements range  anywhere from certification to a doctoral degree.
to save themselves from bankruptcy, private  practitioners of alternative medicine should only work in communities where  people can afford to pay out-of-pocket for treatment.
with this career, you will use many different hand techniques to release muscle tension, stabilize the emotions, and grant serenity to your clients.
according to the u.s. bureau of labor statistics (bls), those working in the "offices of other health practitioners" industry (a category that includes practitioners of alternative medicine) earned average hourly wages of $19.35 in 2008.
if you are interested in pursuing alternative medicine, you should also  think about a career innutrition.
there are currently no faqs to display.
for women who would rather bring children into the world in a more natural manner, a doula is there to provide support before, during, and after birth.
as a result, they do not usually treat individual symptoms, but rather, the body as a whole.
another career consideration could be in massage therapy.
back to top certification: completion time varies according to  program bachelor's degree: 4 years to complete master's degree: 2 years to complete doctoral degree: 4-6 year to complete back to top education & certification the education that will be required of you as a practitioner of alternative  medicine will largely depend on the type of alternative medicine you want to  practice and what you want to do with it.
the u.s. bureau of labor statistics reports that employment for the  "offices of other health practitioners" industry is expected to grow  by a whopping 41.3 percent over the 2008 to 2018 decade.
while in the face of illness, it is always good to consult with your general practicing physician, it's also good to keep your mind open to other forms of treatment.
with this career,  you will use many different hand techniques to release muscle tension,  stabilize the emotions, and grant serenity to your clients.
after hearing that now we have a generation of americans who have a shorter life span than the one before it, americans have become frightened into changing their behavior and habits in order to improve their health.
- massage therapy - diploma learn more about concorde career colleges add a review herzing university campuses: minneapolis programs: - diploma in therapeutic massage learn more about herzing university 1 reviews everest university campuses: brandon, clearwater, fort lauderdale, jacksonville, lakeland, melbourne, orange park, orlando, pinellas, pompano beach, south orlando, tampa programs: - massage
with a career in alternative medicine, you are likely to be learning practices that have been passed down for centuries, so it is of the utmost important that you devote yourself fully to your craft and to your desire to help others.
back to top salary information your annual income in alternative medicine will vary substantially according to where you practice, the form of alternative medicine you practice, your reputation as a practitioner of alternative medicine, the extent of your client base, and your level of experience.
florida georgia hawaii idaho illinois indiana iowa kansas kentucky louisiana maine maryland massachusetts michigan minnesota mississippi missouri montana nebraska nevada new hampshire new jersey new mexico new york north carolina north dakota ohio oklahoma oregon pennsylvania rhode island south carolina south dakota tennessee texas utah vermont virginia washington west virginia wisconsin wyoming canada home healthcare degrees alternative medicine alternative medicine degrees 73 15 1,416 tweet ask a question send a question to one of our education experts.
as a result, customers are responsible for the entire cost of these alternative healthcare services.
certification programs are  available at various specialty schools around the nation and vary in length and  by the extent of their academic rigor.
many westerners are initially skeptical about the effectiveness of alternative medicine, but after giving it a try, are convinced of its amazing health benefits.
back to top available degree levels - certification: completion time varies according to program - bachelor's degree: 4 years to complete - master's degree: 2 years to complete - doctoral degree: 4-6 year to complete back to top education & certification the education that will be required of you as a practitioner of alternative medicine will largely depend on the type of alternative medicine you want to practice and what you want to do with it.
the u.s. bureau of labor statistics reports that employment for the "offices of other health practitioners" industry is expected to grow by a whopping 41.3 percent over the 2008 to 2018 decade.
answers to your questions - career specializations - available degree levels - education & certification - salary information - job outlook - related careers accredited schools offering alternative medicine degrees by level 2 reviews - all - associate - bachelor's - master's - doctorate - certification kaplan university - healthcare programs campuses: online programs: - bs in health science - bs in health and wellness learn more about kaplan university - healthcare programs add a review ashford university campuses: online programs: - ba/health and wellness - ba/complementary and alternative health learn more about ashford university add a review everglades university online campuses: online programs: - bachelor's degree in alternative medicine learn more about everglades university online 7 reviews concorde career colleges campuses: arlington, dallas, san antonio programs:
contrary to what one might think, the needles actually serve to lessen pain by stimulating nerves, connective tissues, and muscles.
for instance, you might pursue a modality within traditional chinese medicine, such as "cupping," or you may prefer something completely different.
of all industries in healthcare, the bls has predicted that the "offices of other health practitioners" industry will experience the second-greatest growth in employment over the projection period.
florida georgia hawaii idaho illinois indiana iowa kansas kentucky louisiana maine maryland massachusetts michigan minnesota mississippi missouri montana nebraska nevada new hampshire new jersey new mexico new york north carolina north dakota ohio oklahoma oregon pennsylvania rhode island south carolina south dakota tennessee texas utah vermont virginia washington west virginia wisconsin wyoming canada copyright © 2000-2012 sr education group home | about | contact | privacy policy | terms of service
for women who would rather bring children into the world in a  more natural manner, a doula is there to provide support before, during, and  after birth.
as a consequence, they may also be more receptive to alternative forms of treatment than they have been in the past.
practitioners of alternative medicine believe in the interconnectedness of the body.
become a nutritionist, and you could eventually help the american population realize that there are plenty of tasty foods that are not loaded with butter, sugar, and salt.
back to top this website offers school details to prospective  students as an informational resource.
moreover, for those looking to spend many hours studying  alternative medicine, there is the doctor of naturopathic medicine program to  strengthen your knowledge of natural healing techniques.
if you're looking for answers, submit your questions to our education experts to get the conversation started.
actually, some women say that  childbirth is too momentous of an occasion to be numbed by an epidural while it  is taking place.
if you choose to pursue a career in alternative medicine, you will learn to take approaches to illness that are much different from the ones you see on primetime tv emergency room dramas.
actually, some women say that childbirth is too momentous of an occasion to be numbed by an epidural while it is taking place.
importantly, your educational requirements will also vary according to  where you live.
become a nutritionist, and you could  eventually help the american population realize that there are plenty of tasty  foods that are not loaded with butter, sugar, and salt.
with this career, you could have a substantial impact on peoples' emotional, mental, and physical health simply by changing the type of food they consume.
this form of alternative medicine is meant to reduce stress and  stimulate the body's natural self-healing abilities.
â doula: since the beginning of human kind, women have  been having babies outside of hospitals.
â reiki healer: a form of alternative medicine that  originates from 19th century japan, reiki healing uses gentle forms of  non-invasive touches to stabilize the invisible force of energy surrounding  clients.
for instance, some states require aspiring acupuncturists to  become licensed by passing thenational certification commission for acupuncture  and oriental medicine exam.
in general, practitioners of alternative medicine have a positive job outlook because of the increasing attention being paid to health in the united states.
(bls) back to top related careers
as a result, customers are responsible for the entire cost of these  alternative healthcare services.
after hearing that now we have a generation of  americans who have a shorter life span than the one before it, americans have  become frightened into changing their behavior and habits in order to improve  their health.
back to top job outlook practitioners of alternative medicine face wide popularity among  frequenters of spas.
in order to be a  successful massage therapist, you should have a thorough understanding of human  anatomy and be comfortable physically working with a wide variety of peopleto  fully prepare for the career, you should complete an accredited massage therapy  certification program, which will take anywhere from six months to one year to  complete.
certificate - bachelor of science in asian holistic health and massage - doctorate in acupuncture and oriental medicine - bachelor of professional studies in asian holistic health and massage learn more about pacific college of oriental medicine 18 reviews harris school of business campuses: upper darby programs: learn more about harris school of business add a review western carolina university campuses: online programs: - culturally-based native health certificate program (graduate & undergraduate options)
alternative medicine degree programs - associate degree - bachelor's degree - master's degree - doctorate degree - certification & diploma - high school diploma/ged find a school - select a subject - - view all subjects - allied health alternative medicine dentistry dietetics/nutrition gerontology science healthcare administration laboratory science medical imaging nursing & patient care optometry pharmacy therapy & rehabilitation veterinary medicine - select
all pharmacy specialties - pharmacy pharmacy technician - all therapy & rehabilitation specialties - massage therapy medical massage occupational therapy assistant physical therapy respiratory therapy sports massage therapy & rehabilitation - all veterinary medicine specialties - veterinary medicine veterinary technician - select a state - online alabama alaska arizona arkansas california colorado connecticut delaware district of columbia
back to top salary information your annual income in alternative medicine will vary substantially  according to where you practice, the form of alternative medicine you practice,  your reputation as a practitioner of alternative medicine, the extent of your  client base, and your level of experience.
culturally-based native health certificate program (graduate &  undergraduate options) learn more about western carolina university career specializations alternative medicine is an incredibly broad career, so there are many  possibilities for specialization.
back to top this website offers school details to prospective students as an informational resource.
for this reason, many jobs exist and will continue to exist in the spa industry.
according to the u.s. bureau of  labor statistics (bls), those working in the "offices of other health  practitioners" industry (a category that includes practitioners of  alternative medicine) earned average hourly wages of $19.35 in 2008.
some practitioners of alternative medicine are employed at spas, while many others are self-employed, working from their homes or private offices.
considering that the  predicted growth for all occupations is only 11 percent, practitioners of  alternative medicine face an incredibly favorable job outlook.
of all  industries in healthcare, the bls has predicted that the "offices of other  health practitioners" industry will experience the second-greatest growth  in employment over the projection period.
the field of alternative medicine is incredibly diverse, and so are the salaries that alternative medicine practitioners can earn.
additionally, some practitioners of alternative medicine can be found working in clinics or hospitals, although this is less common.
in addition to certification programs, some specialties within alternative medicine expect students to complete apprenticeships.
the following are only a handful: - acupuncturist: to treat illness and promote general health, acupuncturists insert needles into key points on the body.
many practitioners of alternative medicine, especially those in private practice, do not accept forms of health insurance as payment for their services.
therapy - diploma learn more about everest university add a review lansdale school of business campuses: north wales, phoenixville programs: learn more about lansdale school of business add a review reeves college campuses: calgary, edmonton, lloydminster, lethbridge programs: learn more about reeves college add a review pcu college of holistic medicine campuses: online programs: - traditional chinese medicine herbalist - traditional chinese medicine practitioner - tuina/anmo - acupuncture - doctor of traditional chinese medicine learn more about pcu college of holistic medicine 2 reviews kaplan college campuses: chesapeake programs: - holistic health practitioner - diploma learn more about kaplan college add a review fremont college campuses: cerritos programs: - diploma in massage therapy - diploma learn more about fremont college add a review first institute training campuses: crystal lake programs: learn more about first institute training add a review pacific college of oriental medicine campuses: chicago programs: - associate of applied science in holistic health science - master of science acupuncture emphasis in traditional oriental medicine - master of science acupuncture emphasis in classical chinese medicine - bachelor of health science in asian holistic health and massage - master of science - traditional oriental medicine - massage therapist/asian bodywork
if you are interested in pursuing alternative medicine, you should also think about a career innutrition.
for this reason, many jobs exist and will continue to  exist in the spa industry.
moreover, for those looking to spend many hours studying alternative medicine, there is the doctor of naturopathic medicine program to strengthen your knowledge of natural healing techniques.
in order to be a successful massage therapist, you should have a thorough understanding of human anatomy and be comfortable physically working with a wide variety of peopleto fully prepare for the career, you should complete an accredited massage therapy certification program, which will take anywhere from six months to one year to complete.
alternative medicine
certification programs are available at various specialty schools around the nation and vary in length and by the extent of their academic rigor.
in general, practitioners of alternative medicine  have a positive job outlook because of the increasing attention being paid to  health in the united states.
with this career, you could have a  substantial impact on peoples' emotional, mental, and physical health simply by  changing the type of food they consume.
learn more about western carolina university career specializations alternative medicine is an incredibly broad career, so there are many possibilities for specialization.
contrary to  what one might think, the needles actually serve to lessen pain by stimulating  nerves, connective tissues, and muscles.
for instance, some states require aspiring acupuncturists to become licensed by passing thenational certification commission for acupuncture and oriental medicine exam.
- medical schools - healthcare degrees - student reviews - college rankings - articles - scholarships find a school - select a subject - - view all subjects - allied health alternative medicine dentistry dietetics/nutrition gerontology science healthcare administration laboratory science medical imaging nursing & patient care optometry pharmacy therapy & rehabilitation veterinary medicine - select
the following are only a handful: acupuncturist: to treat illness and promote general  health, acupuncturists insert needles into key points on the body.
to save themselves from bankruptcy, private practitioners of alternative medicine should only work in communities where people can afford to pay out-of-pocket for treatment.
undeniably, there are a multitude of pathways you can take in the field alternative medicine.
a specialty - - all allied health specialties - allied health anesthesia tech cardiovascular technician dialysis technician ekg technician emt technician fitness trainer medical assistant orthotics & prosthetics personal training physician assistant sports/athletic training surgical technician - all alternative medicine specialties - alternative medicine holistic medicine - all dentistry specialties - dental assistant dentistry - all dietetics/nutrition specialties - dietetics/nutrition nutrition - all gerontology science specialties - gerontology gerontology science - all healthcare administration specialties - bioinformatics care management healthcare administration healthcare information systems healthcare management medical billing & coding medical office administration medical transcription public health - all laboratory science specialties - laboratory science laboratory technician phlebotomy - all medical imaging specialties - medical imaging radiology technician and technologist sonographer/ultrasound tech x-ray technician - all nursing & patient care specialties - certified nursing assistant (cna) licensed practical nurse licensed vocational nurse nurse practitioner (np) nursing & patient care patient care technician - all optometry specialties - optical/optometric assistant optometry -
â - reiki healer: a form of alternative medicine that originates from 19th century japan, reiki healing uses gentle forms of non-invasive touches to stabilize the invisible force of energy surrounding clients.
this form of alternative medicine is meant to reduce stress and stimulate the body's natural self-healing abilities.
real questions from real students ask a question send a question to one of our education experts.
the appearance of a school listing on  this website should not be interpreted as an endorsement by the school of this  site.
educational requirements range anywhere from certification to a doctoral degree.
as a consequence, they may also be more receptive to alternative  forms of treatment than they have been in the past.
considering that the predicted growth for all occupations is only 11 percent, practitioners of alternative medicine face an incredibly favorable job outlook.
back to top job outlook practitioners of alternative medicine face wide popularity among frequenters of spas.