how traditional systems differ modern and traditional systems are complementary in their view of disease.
muscular pain that responds to acupuncture in beijing will also be reduced in kansas city.
treatment in the traditional mode may also require frequent visits for evaluation and to make changes in diet and therapy.
we would also have to accept that there is nothing unique about any physician-patient relationship.
lyndhurst, ohio 44124 :|: (440) 461-7488
in most areas of the world where traditional medical systems developed, there was no medical industrial complex.
muscular pain that responds to acupuncture in  beijing will also be reduced in kansas city.
tremendous expense and effort is now expended in an attempt to adhere to a variety of arbitrary and unsupportable "guidelines" in order to remain solvent.
treatment decisions are made without primary regard for clinical reality.
this is a misguided  distinction based on economics and politics.
a positive attitude and perseverance, along with the skillful guidance of your physician, remain your best allies in overcoming the suffering of disease.
this is that physicians (and patients) are just interchangeable parts in a complex machine.
in just such a cavalier way patients and physicians have allowed their relationships to be defined, simplified, and intruded upon.
traditional physicians avoid these conflicts primarily by serving only the patient's interest.
as in all relationships, the patient physician relationship evolves over a  period of time, and requires effort by both the physician and the patient.
there are many aspects of modern medical practice which have never been  subjected to scientific evaluation and remain popular among physicians because  "we have always done it this way".
obtaining a careful history of the condition and any pattern of relationships  to time, meals, or season may hold the key to treatment.
in the ethics of traditional medical systems, a  physician who allows economic or political interests to taint the  patient-physician relationship is not practicing in an acceptable fashion.
it is, in fact, common to find that patients with the same western  diagnosis will have different illnesses when diagnosed by oriental methods.
techniques that have stood the  tests of time and patient acceptance in other cultures are often rejected  because they are unfamiliar and strange to physicians increasingly trained in a  narrow industrialized model of medical care.
moreover, their relationships are also considered interchangeable.
is it possible to even imagine some bureaucracy regulating and evaluating your spouse, or your best friend?
modern physicians have also allowed themselves to become involved in complex business relationships that have the potential to interfere with the patient physician relationship.
in most areas of the world where traditional medical  systems developed, there was no medical industrial complex.
when found, therapy is applied to correct the error directly and, hopefully, eliminate the disease.
traditional doctors are taught to serve only the patient's well being, but modern physicians have been made keenly aware of their legal and economic entanglements to corporate and governmental entities.
this is one reason why you will find that most practitioners, hospitals, and clinics spend so much time focused on "procedure" codes.
as in all relationships, the patient physician relationship evolves over a period of time, and requires effort by both the physician and the patient.
an oriental physician will first address the underlying cause of the condition.
a physician trained in oriental medicine is taught to "treat the patient, not the disease".
if this were true, any cardiologist could be replaced by another with no effect on the patient's health.
many conventional treatments have usually failed to help.
so, feverish illnesses such as viral upper respiratory infections are treated differently according to their manifestations; an expert physician can determine the stage of the illness, and therefore which acupuncture pattern and which herbal formula will be most likely to help.
moreover, their relationships are  also considered interchangeable.
modern physicians have not yet proven that they can manage this conflict of interest in the patient's favor.
one pediatrician would provide the exact same care as any other.
tremendous expense and effort is now expended in an attempt to adhere to a  variety of arbitrary and unsupportable "guidelines" in order to  remain solvent.
modern and traditional systems are complementary in their view of disease.
some patients will respond to minimal therapy, whereas others may require a complex and prolonged program.
in part, this is a result of accepting a pervasive falsehood that is promoted by insurance companies and the current beneficiaries of the medical industrial complex.
a positive attitude and perseverance, along with the skillful guidance  of your physician, remain your best allies in overcoming the suffering of  disease.
often, american patients  seek this type of care late in the course of their disease, after unsuccessful  surgery or years of neglect.
if this were true, any cardiologist could be replaced by another with no  effect on the patient's health.
having studied with some of the greatest living physicians of the west and east, i can assure you that no medicine can solve all problems, but also that effective techniques of diagnosis and therapy exist in each.
modern attempts to "standardize" medical care reflects an oversimplification of reality to make the process of denying treatment automatic.
the  responsibility of the patient is to commit themselves to a path of healing,  relying wholeheartedly on the physician for guidance.
for reasons unrelated to clinical effectiveness or scientific validity, some practices have become dominant in our society, and some, ignored.
one physician serves one patient at a time and patients rarely have more than one physician coordinating their care.
examination of the abdomen, meridians, pulse and tongue may be  needed to understand the many subtle aspects of the patient's physical and  emotional state.
some  patients will respond to minimal therapy, whereas others may require a complex  and prolonged program.
for reasons unrelated to clinical  effectiveness or scientific validity, some practices have become dominant in  our society, and some, ignored.
by this stage symptoms are severe and the situation is complex.
traditional oriental medicines; acupuncture, chinese medicine, tibetan medicine, african medicine, moxibustion.
the real medicine: the therapeutic relationship from the viewpoint of physicians trained in the traditional models,  medicine is not a commodity, but is the result of the relationship between a  physician and patient.
here, the physician is not so much concerned with the mechanism of the disease as with the manifestation of the disease in the individual patient.
in part, this is a result of accepting a pervasive falsehood that is  promoted by insurance companies and the current beneficiaries of the medical  industrial complex.
some people's constitutions indicate that they will be unusually sensitive  to medications, or that their makeup may be unsuitable for acupuncture.
powerful economic interests support  such a view.
people who are  healthy don't know this, but those who have ever been ill, or had a pain which  lasted for more than a few days, or have taken care of a child or relative who  was sick, realize that to successfully navigate the complex maze of medical  decisions, procedures, drug combinations and sub-specialists requires an expert  guide who knows the territory.
modern attempts to "standardize" medical care reflects an  oversimplification of reality to make the process of denying treatment  automatic.
it is common to hear of oriental or chinese medicine referred to as an "alternative" to western medical practice.
a bacterial lung infection will respond to antibiotics whether the patient is in beijing or kansas city.
a medical system for the long haul traditional physicians tend to emphasize the preventative aspects of  treatment.
this view of disease and the resulting method of treatment has been  extremely successful in many areas.
so, feverish illnesses such as viral upper  respiratory infections are treated differently according to their  manifestations; an expert physician can determine the stage of the illness, and  therefore which acupuncture pattern and which herbal formula will be most  likely to help.
medicine is medicine it is common to hear of oriental or chinese medicine referred to as an  "alternative" to western medical practice.
imagine the folly of trying to regulate and standardize relationships as personal as the physician-patient alliance.
the result has been a system where neither  patients nor physicians feel much loyalty to each other's welfare.
a bacterial lung infection will respond to antibiotics whether the patient  is in beijing or kansas city.
techniques that have stood the tests of time and patient acceptance in other cultures are often rejected because they are unfamiliar and strange to physicians increasingly trained in a narrow industrialized model of medical care.
continuing visits and adherence to prescriptions of diet, exercise, and meditation may be necessary to achieve the best results.
the traditional medical approach is somewhat different.
for the best results, american patients must learn to understand this process and join with their physician in an effort to improve their health.
sometimes this disease results in a watery runny nose, and at other times it causes muscle aches and a sore throat.
in just such a cavalier way patients and physicians have allowed their  relationships to be defined, simplified, and intruded upon.
yet some conditions and syndromes cannot be  helped at all by this approach, and others may not completely respond.
the modern emphasis is on finding how normal physiology goes wrong and causes  disease.
we would also have to accept that there is nothing unique  about any physician-patient relationship.
modern pressures to find a new doctor or clinic every few years because of  changes in insurance and employment have weakened any chance that a long term  therapeutic relationship can be established.
5399 mayfield road :|:
but, it is not easy to change destructive habits of long-standing,  and change is sometimes slow.
often the exact mechanism at the root of the disease is unknown, or there is no specific therapy available.
one pediatrician would provide the exact same  care as any other.
traditional doctors are taught to serve only  the patient's well being, but modern physicians have been made keenly aware of  their legal and economic entanglements to corporate and governmental entities.
the experience of masters of traditional medicines confirms that the true  medicine is the relationship between the physician and the patient.
certain aspects of the exam may seem unfamiliar, as may the experience of  treatment.
patients who are frustrated by the control that insurance companies, the government, and company health plans have imposed on their choices and options, or who believe the prevailing medical system is impersonal and indifferent, often find that they prefer the individualized approach of oriental medicine.
treatment in the traditional mode may also require frequent visits for  evaluation and to make changes in diet and therapy.
a long list of prescribed and self-administered medications is usual.
this is that physicians (and patients) are just  interchangeable parts in a complex machine.
in contrast, modern physicians and patients have allowed outside forces to  alter this fundamental alliance.
for example, everyone has had some experience with what is often referred to as the "common" cold.
this is why they may require different therapy.
but personal experience and logic suggests that this cannot be so.
certain aspects of the exam may seem unfamiliar, as may the experience of treatment.
under these circumstances, it is necessary to realize that great skill is required to improve the situation, and it takes time to modify or reverse the disease process.
one person may respond to acupuncture and need no other treatment,  and another may need a complex combination of western and oriental medicine to  achieve the best health.
modern physicians have also allowed themselves to become involved in  complex business relationships that have the potential to interfere with the  patient physician relationship.
as with all systems, traditional oriental medicines may not help all  conditions, and "cures" are rare in both modern and traditional  practice.
it is instructive that there are no "results" codes, don't you  think?
this is a misguided distinction based on economics and politics.
in the ethics of traditional medical systems, a physician who allows economic or political interests to taint the patient-physician relationship is not practicing in an acceptable fashion.
it may be that to obtain the best results, one person has to change their  diet, another their job, and another may have to move to a different  environment.
sometimes this disease results in a watery  runny nose, and at other times it causes muscle aches and a sore throat.
as with all systems, traditional oriental medicines may not help all conditions, and "cures" are rare in both modern and traditional practice.
oriental techniques may ultimately prove to reduce medical costs and suffering in a variety of common and rare disorders.
people who are healthy don't know this, but those who have ever been ill, or had a pain which lasted for more than a few days, or have taken care of a child or relative who was sick, realize that to successfully navigate the complex maze of medical decisions, procedures, drug combinations and sub-specialists requires an expert guide who knows the territory.
modern physicians have not yet proven that they can manage this conflict of  interest in the patient's favor.
a physician trained in oriental medicine is taught to "treat the  patient, not the disease".
a return to individualized care patients who are frustrated by the control that insurance companies, the  government, and company health plans have imposed on their choices and options,  or who believe the prevailing medical system is impersonal and indifferent,  often find that they prefer the individualized approach of oriental medicine.
examination of the abdomen, meridians, pulse and tongue may be needed to understand the many subtle aspects of the patient's physical and emotional state.
so many variations for even a relatively  simple illness!
the responsibility of the physician is to serve the  patient's best interest and skillfully diagnose and apply treatment.
the  medicinal value of raw honey pain neutralization technique blood stasis &  chronic disease ear acupuncture recommended websites magic & medicine  lessons from magic school, part one lessons from magic school, part two lessons  from magic school, part three send us a comment
unani medicine commentary mythology of modern medicine america the heartless
from the viewpoint of physicians trained in the traditional models, medicine is not a commodity, but is the result of the relationship between a physician and patient.
having studied with some of the greatest living physicians of the west and  east, i can assure you that no medicine can solve all problems, but also that  effective techniques of diagnosis and therapy exist in each.
or being told to choose a new "best friend" from an "approved" list after you've been told that the government or your insurance carrier has determined that your present best friend does not meet their latest "criteria"?
some people's constitutions indicate that they will be unusually sensitive to medications, or that their makeup may be unsuitable for acupuncture.
the result has been a system where neither patients nor physicians feel much loyalty to each other's welfare.
as noted previously, the best medical care is always individualized, but these developments are part of an organized program to replace skilled, highly compensated physicians and nurses with technicians.
standardized in the mass production, fast-food model, medical standards and access will continue to deteriorate, while the expense of supporting endless layers of bureaucrats, insurance companies, regulatory bodies, and their buildings, staff and infrastructure continues to rise.
in contrast, modern physicians and patients have allowed outside forces to alter this fundamental alliance.
this is one reason why you will find that most practitioners,  hospitals, and clinics spend so much time focused on "procedure"  codes.
an elderly woman with an ulcer will not receive the same advice from a traditional practitioner as a young man with the same diagnosis.
powerful economic interests support such a view.
for the best results, american patients must  learn to understand this process and join with their physician in an effort to  improve their health.
the responsibility of the physician is to serve the patient's best interest and skillfully diagnose and apply treatment.
the modern emphasis is on finding how normal physiology goes wrong and causes disease.
correcting this may take time and effort on the partof the patient.
often, american patients seek this type of care late in the course of their disease, after unsuccessful surgery or years of neglect.
the responsibility of the patient is to commit themselves to a path of healing, relying wholeheartedly on the physician for guidance.
still  other people will develop digestive symptoms.
all traditional medical systems acknowledge thetime-honored premise that for positive results in medicine, there has to be mutual trust, mutual responsibility, and a common commitment.
obtaining a careful history of the condition and any pattern of relationships to time, meals, or season may hold the key to treatment.
this view of disease and the resulting method of treatment has been extremely successful in many areas.
when i have taught electives on japanese or tibetan medicine at case  western reserve school of medicine, i define medicine as the "science,  art, and craft of understanding suffering, its causes, and its remedies".
yet some conditions and syndromes cannot be helped at all by this approach, and others may not completely respond.
imagine the folly of trying to regulate and standardize relationships as  personal as the physician-patient alliance.
patients may be chilled or  feverish, perspiring or dry skinned.
top © 2000-2010 dr. l.b. grotte m.d., all rights reserved.
many conventional treatments have usually failed  to help.
one physician  serves one patient at a time and patients rarely have more than one physician  coordinating their care.
treatment decisions are made without primary  regard for clinical reality.
one person may respond to acupuncture and need no other treatment, and another may need a complex combination of western and oriental medicine to achieve the best health.
the experience of masters of traditional medicines confirms that the true medicine is the relationship between the physician and the patient.
or  being told to choose a new "best friend" from an "approved"  list after you've been told that the government or your insurance carrier has  determined that your present best friend does not meet their latest  "criteria"?
often  the exact mechanism at the root of the disease is unknown, or there is no  specific therapy available.
oriental techniques may ultimately prove to reduce medical costs and  suffering in a variety of common and rare disorders.
it may be that to obtain the best results, one person has to change their diet, another their job, and another may have to move to a different environment.
it is instructive that there are no "results" codes, don't you think?
traditional physicians tend to emphasize the preventative aspects of treatment.
also, with many diseases, this journey may extend over months or years.
here, the physician  is not so much concerned with the mechanism of the disease as with the  manifestation of the disease in the individual patient.
when i have taught electives on japanese or tibetan medicine at case western reserve school of medicine, i define medicine as the "science, art, and craft of understanding suffering, its causes, and its remedies".
the emphasis on preventative care and low risk intervention early in the course of a disorder may hold the secret to improving health at a reasonable cost.
all  traditional medical systems acknowledge thetime-honored premise that for  positive results in medicine, there has to be mutual trust, mutual  responsibility, and a common commitment.
the emphasis on  preventative care and low risk intervention early in the course of a disorder  may hold the secret to improving health at a reasonable cost.
modern pressures to find a new doctor or clinic every few years because of changes in insurance and employment have weakened any chance that a long term therapeutic relationship can be established.
an oriental physician will first address the underlying cause of the  condition.
is it possible to even imagine some  bureaucracy regulating and evaluating your spouse, or your best friend?
still other people will develop digestive symptoms.
continuing visits and adherence to prescriptions of diet,  exercise, and meditation may be necessary to achieve the best results.
for example, everyone has had some experience with what is often referred  to as the "common" cold.
it is, in fact, common to find that patients with the same western diagnosis will have different illnesses when diagnosed by oriental methods.
but, it is not easy to change destructive habits of long-standing, and change is sometimes slow.
there are many aspects of modern medical practice which have never been subjected to scientific evaluation and remain popular among physicians because "we have always done it this way".
so many variations for even a relatively simple illness!
traditional physicians avoid these conflicts primarily by serving only the  patient's interest.
as noted previously, the best medical care is always individualized,  but these developments are part of an organized program to replace skilled,  highly compensated physicians and nurses with technicians.
when found, therapy is applied to correct the error directly and,  hopefully, eliminate the disease.
standardized in the mass production, fast-food model, medical standards and  access will continue to deteriorate, while the expense of supporting endless  layers of bureaucrats, insurance companies, regulatory bodies, and their  buildings, staff and infrastructure continues to rise.
under these circumstances, it is necessary to realize that great skill is  required to improve the situation, and it takes time to modify or reverse the  disease process.
an elderly woman with an ulcer  will not receive the same advice from a traditional practitioner as a young man  with the same diagnosis.
patients may be chilled or feverish, perspiring or dry skinned.