get recommended practitioners 3.
yet throughout its history it has continually developed in response to changing clinical conditions, and has been sustained by research into every aspect of its use.
what is your current condition?pain problem 2.
with her treatment i have come to enjoy a sense of physical, mental and emotional health.
it is considered an alternative medical system in much of the  western world.
popular locations: traditional chinese medicine  (tcm)    london    birmingham    leeds    glasgow    sheffield    bradford     edinburgh    liverpool    manchester    bristol    wakefield    cardiff                                          coventry    nottingham leicester    sunderland     belfast    newcastle upon tyne    brighton    hull about us
any other details will help our chinese medicine doctors prepare the treatment or consultation:please provide as much information as possible.
final step - please enter your contact details: (only a maximum of 2 therapists registered in our network will have access to your contact details.)
we respect the confidentiality of your personal information and only pass your enquiry on to the chosen chinese medicine doctors.
what chinese medicine may help with: dermatological: acne,  dermatitis, eczema, hair loss, alopecia, psoriasis, vitiligo, herpes, shingles,  athlete’s foot and other fungal infections, mycosis, urticaria etc.
how do you prefer to be contacted by local therapists?call me to confirm my appointment asap please.
how soon would you like to book traditional chinese medicine(tcm) for?as soon as possible 4.
awareness related to  chinese herbal medicine has grown tremendously in western world due to wide  media coverage.
she not only treats symptoms but offers sensible and inexpensive solutions.
chinese herbal medicine is an herbal system with an unbroken tradition going back to the 3rd century bc.
fill out our confidential enquiry form 2.
we offer a free, no obligation service that provides you with advice from up to 2 different local chinese medicine doctors, and allows you to select the best one.
she offers genuine care.
what is your estimated budget for each traditional chinese medicine(tcm) session?more than ￡80 5.
it is considered an alternative medical system in much of the western world.
welcome to natural therapy for all, we are the uk’s leading website for finding great chinese medicine doctors.
this process continues today with the development of modern medical diagnostic techniques and knowledge.
yet throughout its history it has continually developed in  response to changing clinical conditions, and has been sustained by research  into every aspect of its use.
here at naturaltherapyforall, we help you to find the chinese medicine  doctor, who has a proven track record in this field.
or if you need help  immediately you can request an appointment with a therapist in your area; all  you have to do is fill outa simple form.
internal: asthma, migraine, headache, bronchitis, colitis, cold & flu,  diabetes, haemorrhoids, heartburn, high blood pressure, ibs, indigestion, ms,  constipation, diarrhea, ulcer, hypogly-caemia, gastritis, hiatus hernia,  hypothyroidism etc.
get great results what is your postcode 1.
every member must be  registered with a recognised professional body or must send us their copies of  qualifications and references from clients.
genito-urinary & reproductive: menopause,  infertility, irregular periods, anaemia, miscarriage, endometriosis,  discharges, fibroids, ovarian cysts, pelvic pain, vaginitis, pmt, impotence,  premature ejaculation, low sperm count, prostate disease, low libido, m.s etc.
this process continues today with the development  of modern medical diagnostic techniques and knowledge.
how we help you choose the best chinese medicine  doctor find a good chinese medicine doctor tailored to suit your needs is not  easy.
it is originating in china and well accepted in the mainstream of medical care throughout east asia.
chinese herbal medicine is an herbal system with an unbroken tradition  going back to the 3rd century bc.
find a good chinese medicine doctor tailored to suit your needs is not easy.
dr. qu’s chinese medicine techniques are excellent.
awareness related to chinese herbal medicine has grown tremendously in western world due to wide media coverage.
general problems & addictions: give up smoking, losing weight, me,  alcoholism, fatigue etc.
or if you need help immediately you can request an appointment with a therapist in your area; all you have to do is fill outa simple form.
here at naturaltherapyforall, we help you to find the chinese medicine doctor, who has a proven track record in this field.
we offer a free, no obligation  service that provides you with advice from up to 2 different local chinese  medicine doctors, and allows you to select the best one.
it is originating in china and well accepted  in the mainstream of medical care throughout east asia.
create a password for your account: prev find a chinese medicine doctor welcome to natural therapy for all, we are the uk’s leading website  for finding great chinese medicine doctors.
every member must be registered with a recognised professional body or must send us their copies of qualifications and references from clients.
we respect the confidentiality of your  personal information and only pass your enquiry on to the chosen chinese  medicine doctors.