i think i got caught  in the middle of these two.
and i do think this had something to do with the enormous variety in the locations i chose.
most popular blogs latest blog posts - forums - blogs - my doc2doc - elibrary - people to use this site you must have javascript enabled doc2doc is a doctors community site with secure doctor forum & doctors social networking.
when they reach about eight years old it is traditional to be circumcised.
recommend permalink helen wrote: oh gosh, i am boring.
i then went on to southern and extremely rural belize in central america-you can imagine the culture shock.
ps -holiday photos to come...
i had plenty of opportunities to get more  experience of the local culture but every time i would decline and go and hang  out with the backpackers.
i did get to go to an evidence based medicine conference in san francisico as part of it though.
the pacific ocean half a mile away didn’t hurt either!
this surprised me as the picture older students had painted of american electives involved being made to stand in the corner with your hands tied for fear of being sued.
i hear you gasp, perhaps with a “you  malcontent” at the end.
for me though,  looking back after three years, i can’t help but feel that i could have  made more out of it.
3/2/2009 2:15 am gmt on bmj.com
novote}  you must select one answer before submitting your vote.
it is supposed to  be – it’s the big carrot that is waved in front of you for five  years to get you through the embryology and histology lectures.
join for free today to get answers from your peers to your  clinical questions medical students' blog thoughts and insights from  medical students report item as: (required) x obscenity/vulgarity hate speech personal attack advertising/spam copyright/plagiarism other comment: (optional) elective memory elective memory posted by tnolan  at 29/1/2009 5:14 pm gmton bmj.com was my elective the best eight weeks of medical school?
but i enjoyed experiencing new york in the snow.
search search site: - homepage - about doc2doc - faq - powered by bmj group {macro question(showvotetotal)}  {if keytype == "discussion"}  ${poll.
recommend permalink recent entries 10 things i love about my patients age for change medical education in cuba the agelong question: what specialty do you want to go into?
the clinics were a different story, but  interestingly the most common thing i saw was hypertension, which is a huge  problem in fiji thanks to an unfortunate combination of genetic predisposition  and fondness for fast foods.
january in fiji is a special time of year for many schoolchildren.
the treatments available weren’t great – they got their supplies from charities based in new zealand and when they ran out of one thing they just had to move to another.
for me though, looking back after three years, i can’t help but feel that i could have made more out of it.
the locals soon got to recognise me on the street and would shout  “ennui”, meaning doctor, as took my daily walks to and from the  hospital along a road with beautiful views out to sea.
“what do you mean you can’t help but feel that you could have made more out of it?”
i was the only brit in a group of final year medical students and we met 4 nights a week for seminars.
a fusion of traditional chinese and high tech western medicine.
i went to fiji and spent six weeks on the beautiful island of levuka and the following two weeks exploring the rest of the islands.
my advice would be simply to choose an elective experience that enables you to to experience and learn something new / different -that won't be so easy later on!
the genres of medicine i observed were also polar opposites.
i went to new york for my elective and did a programme run and funded by columbia university based in the lower east side of manhattan on urban medicine, immigrant health care and palliative care.
so if you’re about to go on your elective and you’re going so  you can experience a different culture, my advice would be to resist the  temptation to hang out with people from back home, and get off the tourist  trail.
san francisco gave me two strong memories.
recommend permalink lornap wrote: i am so jealous of your nyc electives would have loved to do mine there!
well, if i was to go again i think i would try harder to push myself.
i did get involved researches and medical aid posts in high himalayas of my country (nepal).
but we have electives from england, germany, scandanavian countries and some from france in my teaching hospital.
it's now 10 years ago.
the clinicians were all md's who had also trained in traditional chinese medicine (for another three years at least!).
the whole two months were truly brilliant
they were  extremely welcoming and friendly and would take me out in the evenings and at  weekends.
“what do you mean you can’t help but feel that you could have  made more out of it?”
love and valentine day archives older april 2011 (5) may 2011 (3) june 2011 (5) july 2011 (4) august 2011 (3) september 2011 (4) october 2011 (8) november 2011 (7) december 2011 (2) january (6) february (6) march (2) most recent tags surgery specialty marriage med doctors television junior comedy students scrubs subscribe via rss - terms and conditions - privacy statement - contact us - founder members - need help?
well, if i was to go again i think i would try  harder to push myself.
totalvotes} ${"vote"|pluralise:poll.
© bmj publishing group 2011
percentagestr}%)     {/for}  {if !novote}go vote!{/if}  {if !
highly recommend it to anyone out there looking.
i was allowed to clerk patients and help administer therapies and was really involved in the team.
${question(false)}  {for answer in poll.
answer}   {/for}    view results...   {/if}
i chose to go to los angeles for five weeks followed by a month in belize.
the clinics were a different story, but interestingly the most common thing i saw was hypertension, which is a huge problem in fiji thanks to an unfortunate combination of genetic predisposition and fondness for fast foods.
i'm sure they have very different experience like yours by coming in developing countries like nepal!
30/1/2009 12:24 am gmt on bmj.com recommend permalink tnolan wrote: thanks kate.
alternatively, you can immerse  yourself in the healthcare of a truly foreign environment.
in fact, elective itself is a great concept and i think one should do.
my personal favorite was later in training, during residency, when i went to cuba for nearly 2 months.
we don't have that kind of culture of electives in the universities here in nepal (very very rare!!!)
the wards were quite empty in general as anything serious was helicoptered out to the mainland.
in condition to repeat the internship.
i also spent far too long reading a textbook as the  fear of finals was growing.
for an american, this was a particularly unique experience - we're not allowed over there except under special programs.
one was being first out of the hostel in the morning to go to work, and the police removing the body of a dead tramp from the doorstep.
alternatively, you can immerse yourself in the healthcare of a truly foreign environment.
i organised the placement through ucla, they literally have hundreds of courses available in any area you can imagine-highly recommended!
answers} {var answerid = poll.
i arrived in la on the sunday and somehow navigated the bus system through the second largest city in the states on a monday morning to santa monica.
many of the local parents were very keen to have their children circumcised by the “white doctor” and i was glad to get a bit more involved in things (most of the locals didn’t speak much english so out-patients soon lost its novelty).
ok ok so it might sound a little "la" but the combination was really appealing to me as someone who would always prefer to try something natural and less toxic that some of the things we're prescribed.
in the mornings there was a ward round and  clinic.
i spent my days at a small hospital run by three doctors.
i had plenty of opportunities to get more experience of the local culture but every time i would decline and go and hang out with the backpackers.
i hear you gasp, perhaps with a “you malcontent” at the end.
contrary to what i was informed prior to arrival i was actually encouraged to take a hands on approach.
numberofvotes} ${"vote"|pluralise:answer.
i still enjoy telling my non-doctor friends about these  operations and seeing the looks of horror on their faces.
the wards were quite empty in general as anything serious was  helicoptered out to the mainland.
the locals soon got to recognise me on the street and would shout “ennui”, meaning doctor, as took my daily walks to and from the hospital along a road with beautiful views out to sea.
question}  {else} ${poll.
4/2/2009 1:38 pm gmt on bmj.com
i shadowed a doctor who worked for st vincents and went to clinics with her to hostels for homeless people off times square, women refuges, hiv clinics and clinics for people with serious menatl health problems off wall street and palliative care (in the bronx).
having said that i thoroughly enjoyed my placements last summer.
two very different locations!
kind regards, nisreen 16/11/2010 6:14 pm gmt on bmj.com
i think i got caught in the middle of these two.
best wishes, mati 1/2/2009 2:50 pm gmt on bmj.com
in the mornings there was a ward round and clinic.
i spent my days at a  small hospital run by three doctors.
it is supposed to be – it’s the big carrot that is waved in front of you for five years to get you through the embryology and histology lectures.
31/1/2009 11:22 am gmt on bmj.com
second was going out for a meal with the bmj staff - local and from london, and being entertained by richard smith (former editor) telling crazy stories.
the treatments available weren’t great  – they got their supplies from charities based in new zealand and when  they ran out of one thing they just had to move to another.
i have 2 good friends in new york as a result and reflect on my experiences quite frequently -given
recommend permalink cws wrote: kate - i did the same one in february 1999, and loved it!
i still enjoy telling my non-doctor friends about these operations and seeing the looks of horror on their faces.
if anyone wants an elective in rural india, i could put you in touch with an amazing woman who runs a rural weaving collective and attendant hospital/clinic.
i leaned alot from my experiences and remain passionate about the city
i learnt acupuncture, cupping, acupressure massage and trigger point injections (a kind of supersized western acupuncture).
i also spent far too long reading a textbook as the fear of finals was growing.
5/2/2009 9:13 pm gmt on bmj.com recommend (1) permalink sreeen wrote: hi kate, your elective sounds like something i would love to do!
i stayed at the royal hotel, a beautiful old colonial hotel frequented by backpackers.
common conditions changed over night from laptop induced neck pain and headaches only relieved by botox to scabies and diarrhoea.
recommend permalink matiram pun wrote: hello tom, this is great experience!
so if you’re about to go on your elective and you’re going so you can experience a different culture, my advice would be to resist the temptation to hang out with people from back home, and get off the tourist trail.
i went to fiji and spent six weeks on the beautiful island of levuka and  the following two weeks exploring the rest of the islands.
comments (7) | permanent link tags:elective, medical, students, students recommend (3) email this post report item as: (required) x obscenity/vulgarity hate speech personal attack advertising/spam copyright/plagiarism other comment: (optional) kate wrote: i enjoyed reading your experiences tom.
you can go with some  friends with the aim of clearing off after a couple of weeks in a hospital and  learn a foreign language or how to surf.
+ answer_index}      ${answer.
there are two main ways to approach your elective.
join for free today to get answers from your peers to your clinical questions medical students' blog thoughts and insights from medical students report item as: (required) x obscenity/vulgarity hate speech personal attack advertising/spam copyright/plagiarism other comment: (optional) elective memory elective memory posted by tnolan at 29/1/2009 5:14 pm gmton bmj.com was my elective the best eight weeks of medical school?
you can go with some friends with the aim of clearing off after a couple of weeks in a hospital and learn a foreign language or how to surf.
sunshine would have been nice-
the doctors and staff at the hospital were all fantastic.
people to use this site you must have javascript enabled doc2doc is a doctors community site with secure doctor forum & doctors  social networking.
i did mine at the bmj on a clegg scholarship.
im in the process of organising my elective at the moment- do you have the email address of someone i could contact about doing a similar programme to yours?
i stayed at the royal hotel, a beautiful old colonial  hotel frequented by backpackers.
i even mastered the basics of reading tongues.
your elective sounds amazing.
when  they reach about eight years old it is traditional to be circumcised.
once you qualify it's hard to do anything like this without taking a year off - another factor to consider.
numberofvotes} (${answer.
i was attached to the integrative east-west medical centre, an air-conditioned glass and white walled haven of a workplace.
they were extremely welcoming and friendly and would take me out in the evenings and at weekends.
totalvotes}) {/if}  {/macro}  ${question(true)}  {for answer in poll.
i had a lot of like this excursions (not exactly elective!)
question} {/if} {if showvotetotal} (${poll.
i experienced a part of new york you'd never normally get to to see.
many of  the local parents were very keen to have their children circumcised by the  “white doctor” and i was glad to get a bit more involved in things  (most of the locals didn’t speak much english so out-patients soon lost  its novelty).