while western medicine is fulfilling essential roles for the treatment of many illnesses, there are still so many health problems which are not satisfactorily treated.
dr yun-fei lu has taught tai chi to csa members for many years.
an integrated treatment of western medicine and traditional medicine can be an effective method to enhance the treatment result and reduce side effects.
dr lu is trained in both western and traditional chinese medicine.
please feel free to contact him on 08 9286 1968 for any enquires regarding tcm.
muscular pain in neck, shoulder, back, arms and legs - such as arthritis, neuralgia, back pain, tendonitis, stiff neck, stroke, cerebral palsy, sprains, painful heels; neurology: migraine, sciatica, headache; mental-emotional: anxiety, depression, stress, insomnia, sleep disorders, chronic fatigue, smoking, and drug addictions; gynaecology & reproductive: infertility, miscarriage, morning sickness, menstrual disorders (irregular periods or cramps), menopause syndrome, pre-menstrual syndrome (pms), urinary disorder; cardiovascular-circulation:
- "western medicine can not help me any more."
80 railway street cottesloe wa, po box 325 cottesloe wa 6911 about us | information | services | events | subscribe | donation | contact us | site map | publications & articles | meeting the challenge seminar cancer profilers | counselling | library | gateway | reasearch | terms & conditions | © cancer support association of western australia inc web development by perthweb & web design by cancer support association
what kind of health problems are effectively treated by acupuncture and chinese medicine?
as acupuncture and chinese  herbal medicine are more and more accepted in western society, gps are starting  to refer patients to seek chinese medicine as complementary treatments.
acupuncture and chinese medicine (an ancient medical system) are growing in popularity around the world, despite the technological advancements of conventional western medicine.
in china, most cancer patients are using some kind of treatments from traditional chinese medicine.
it  should be noted that prevention of diseases is one of the most important  features in chinese medicine.
phone (08) 9384  3544.
some people prefer to use natural methods like acupuncture and chinese herbal medicine to maintain their health and to treat ailments when necessary.
chinese medicine has been helping people to  maintain health by using acupuncture and herbal medicine, including a balanced  diet, and combining various exercises, like chi-gong (chi kung) and tai-chi.
the following are some examples, of common conditions which benefit from acupuncture and chinese medicine, based on my clinical experience.
why do i need acupuncture and chinese medicine?
for example, acupuncture is effective for pain relief in many acute and chronic illnesses, such as lower-back pain, frozen shoulder, and many other muscular problems.
acupuncture and herbal  medicine can restore the body's balance before physical illnesses fully develop.
treatment of cancer is one typical case.
chinese medicine offers a holistic approach to  decrease the rate of age related physiological decline of the human body.
from ancient china, it was said that the best doctor was the one who was able  to prevent disease before it occurred rather than to treat the disease after it  had manifested.
from my clinical experience, the main reasons can be summarized below.
acupuncture and chinese medicine (an ancient medical system)
two typical  examples are the treatment of the age related degenerative health problems and  the treatment of cancer.
- "i personally am very keen on natural and alternative medicine."
while in china it is a tradition for people to seek chinese medicine  treatments, here in our western society people seek chinese medicine treatments  because of various reasons.
80 railway street cottesloe wa, po box 325 cottesloe wa  6911 about us  |  information  |  services  |   events  |  subscribe  |  donation  |  contact us   | site map  |  publications & articles  |   meeting the challenge seminar cancer profilers  |  counselling   | library  |  gateway  |  reasearch  |  terms & conditions  |  © cancer support association of  western australia inc web development by perthweb & web design by cancer support association
acupuncture and herbal medicine can restore the body's balance before physical illnesses fully develop.
for example, acupuncture is  effective for pain relief in many acute and chronic illnesses, such as  lower-back pain, frozen shoulder, and many other muscular problems.
chinese medicine has been helping people to maintain health by using acupuncture and herbal medicine, including a balanced diet, and combining various exercises, like chi-gong (chi kung) and tai-chi.
from my clinical experience, the main reasons can  be summarized below.
some cancer patients in western medical treatment programs, are  told that nothing further can be done for them.
as acupuncture and chinese herbal medicine are more and more accepted in western society, gps are starting to refer patients to seek chinese medicine as complementary treatments.
dr yun-fei lu has taught tai chi to csa members for many  years.
can acupuncture and chinese medicine help you?
problems are effectively treated by acupuncture and chinese medicine?
the world health organization (who) has recognized acupuncture for the treatment of over 200 medical conditions.
- "i am suffering the side  effects from western medical treatment."
in australia, more and more  people are seeking alternative natural healing methods for their health, and  wonder whether their health problems can be treated by acupuncture and chinese  herbal medicine.
in  china, most cancer patients are using some kind of treatments from traditional  chinese medicine.
information, wellness & healing join csa on facebook by dr yun-fei lu
some cancer patients in western medical treatment programs, are told that nothing further can be done for them.
the following are some examples, of  common conditions which benefit from acupuncture and chinese medicine, based on  my clinical experience.
in australia, more and more people are seeking alternative natural healing methods for their health, and wonder whether their health problems can be treated by acupuncture and chinese herbal medicine.
for  example, hrt (hormonal replacement treatment) has been used as an effective  treatment for menopause syndrome, but there are concerns of its side effects.
including many other medical  problems, people realizing that they have to continue their medication for  lifetime to control the health problem and in seeking an alternative method,  they turn to chinese medicine.
chinese medicine offers a holistic approach to decrease the rate of age related physiological decline of the human body.
donate your donation helps us provide support, resources wellness courses & healing therapies for people in wa with cancer wellness news go to the latest online magazine raffle buy tickets and check winning ticket numbers join csa on facebook cancer support association of western australia email csa@cancersupportwa.org.au.
an  integrated treatment of western medicine and traditional medicine can be an  effective method to enhance the treatment result and reduce side effects.
back | wellness news e-newsletter search website of the cancer support association of western australia inc. subscribe for full access to the csa website and to receive our inspiring monthly email newsletter
- "i know that acupuncture and chinese medicine are more  effective for my current health problem."
this is often heard from people using western medicines, who worry about long term damage to their body.
chinese medicine believes that balance and harmony of the body's energy (qi or chi) is the basis of health.
are growing in popularity around the world, despite the technological  advancements of conventional western medicine.
herbal medicine is effective for the treatment for depression, stress,  and some gynecological problems, such as period pain.
muscular pain in neck,  shoulder, back, arms and legs - such as arthritis, neuralgia, back pain,  tendonitis, stiff neck, stroke, cerebral palsy, sprains, painful heels; neurology: migraine, sciatica, headache; mental-emotional: anxiety,  depression, stress, insomnia, sleep disorders, chronic fatigue, smoking, and  drug addictions; gynaecology & reproductive: infertility, miscarriage,  morning sickness, menstrual disorders (irregular periods or cramps), menopause  syndrome, pre-menstrual syndrome (pms), urinary disorder; cardiovascular-circulation:
herbal medicine is effective for the treatment for depression, stress, and some gynecological problems, such as period pain.
two typical examples are the treatment of the age related degenerative health problems and the treatment of cancer.
- "i know that acupuncture and chinese medicine are more effective for my current health problem."
from ancient china, it was said that the best doctor was the one who was able to prevent disease before it occurred rather than to treat the disease after it had manifested.
chinese medicine believes that balance and harmony of the  body's energy (qi or chi) is the basis of health.
prevention of diseases is as important as treatment of diseases
the world health organization (who) has recognized acupuncture for the  treatment of over 200 medical conditions.
while in china it is a tradition for people to seek chinese medicine treatments, here in our western society people seek chinese medicine treatments because of various reasons.
this is often heard from people  using western medicines, who worry about long term damage to their body.
for example, hrt (hormonal replacement treatment) has been used as an effective treatment for menopause syndrome, but there are concerns of its side effects.
post stroke symptoms, heart palpitation, high blood  pressure; respiratory: flu, cough, asthma; immunology: allergies,  disorders of immune system, complementary treatment for cancers; gastro-intestinal: irritable bowel syndrome (ibs), chronic abdominal pain,  hyperacidity, ulcers, chronic diarrhea, indigestion, constipation, diabetes,  eating disorders, weight problems; eyes-ears-nose-throat: hay fever,  dizziness, sore throat, poor hearing, tinnitus, sinus infection; skin:  eczema, acne, urticaria, skin dry skin and itchy skin.
- "i am suffering the side effects from western medical treatment."
some people prefer to use  natural methods like acupuncture and chinese herbal medicine to maintain their  health and to treat ailments when necessary.
- "my gp  recommended i see a chinese medical doctor."
while western medicine  is fulfilling essential roles for the treatment of many illnesses, there are  still so many health problems which are not satisfactorily treated.
these people have usually already experienced chinese medicine treatments or know the effectiveness of chinese medicine from other media sources.
including many other medical problems, people realizing that they have to continue their medication for lifetime to control the health problem and in seeking an alternative method, they turn to chinese medicine.
acupuncture has also been shown to be effective for the treatment of hemiplegia, due to strokes.
phone (08) 9384 3544.
acupuncture  has also been shown to be effective for the treatment of hemiplegia, due to  strokes.
- "i personally am very  keen on natural and alternative medicine."
post stroke symptoms, heart palpitation, high blood pressure; respiratory: flu, cough, asthma; immunology: allergies, disorders of immune system, complementary treatment for cancers; gastro-intestinal: irritable bowel syndrome (ibs), chronic abdominal pain, hyperacidity, ulcers, chronic diarrhea, indigestion, constipation, diabetes, eating disorders, weight problems; eyes-ears-nose-throat: hay fever, dizziness, sore throat, poor hearing, tinnitus, sinus infection; skin: eczema, acne, urticaria, skin dry skin and itchy skin.
donate your donation helps us provide support, resources wellness courses &  healing therapies for people in wa with cancer wellness news go to the latest online magazine raffle buy tickets and check winning ticket numbers join csa on facebook cancer support association of western australia email csa@cancersupportwa.org.au.
- "western medicine can not help me any  more."
it should be noted that prevention of diseases is one of the most important features in chinese medicine.
these people have usually  already experienced chinese medicine treatments or know the effectiveness of  chinese medicine from other media sources.
- "my gp recommended i see a chinese medical doctor."
back | wellness news e-newsletter search website of the cancer support association of western  australia inc. subscribe for full access to the csa website and to receive our inspiring monthly  email newsletter