on a recent weekday afternoon, goat milkers member and local lawyer cordelia friedman walked up to the pen where the goats live.
"for sure, it's much easier to go to the store and buy goat's milk," said alessandra haines, who, along with her husband, steve, is a member of miel y leche.
"i didn't know anything about goats when we got started, but i was willing to try," said mike nestor, a founding member of miel y leche who lives on the co-op property with his wife and two children.
the goat milkers have been around for 15 years and house three goats: itsy, reba and soufflé.
the two co-ops aren't affiliated, but they share a love of goats and local food.
"but part of the experience is taking care of them and learning about them.
" "people say goat cheese is so expensive, and you're like, have you ever milked a goat?"
all users are expected to abide by the forum rules and and be courteous to other users.
the new mexican photo department steve haines of santa fe filters some of amore’s milk wednesday during one of his shifts at the goat co-op, also known as miel y leche. '
members of both co-ops take on different responsibilities that suit their skills and interests.
after that, comments can be read but no new submissions made.
comments must be posted under your own full, real name.
the new mexican posted: sunday, april 22, 2012 - 4/21/12 comments print | font size: related items recent articles by adele melander-dayton: - food enthusiasts learn about what it takes to author a cookbook - county begins door-to-door assessment of residential structures - home tour offers glimpse of the city modern - women weightlifters gain records, camaraderie - celebrate earth day with s.f. groups - high-tech light study to reveal hide paintings' secrets, aid in conservation - [video] veterans gather to commemorate bataan anniversary - 'peregrinos,’ supporters find meaning along road to chimayó [w/ video] - homewise makes case for buying over renting advertisement amore, morphea, tulip and crystal are always excited to have visitors.
generally, the two younger goats are kept together in one pen while their mothers are in another.
if you have questions, e-mail webeditor@sfnewmexican.com.
for information on our community guidelines and updating your username to meet standards, visit http://sfnm.co/sfnmforum.
‘it’s really  interesting to watch them together; they have complex relationships,’  said mike nestor, a founding member of the co-op. -
anonymous comments and those posted under a pseudonym can be removed.
- [video] speed-cam commando:
the goat co-op -- which is also known as miel y leche -- is about a year and a half old and located off west alameda, on land past siler road where property lines become unclear and farm-animal sightings more common.
these girls are curious, friendly and almost eerily smart.
a hand-painted sign above their pen proudly declares where you are: the goat co-op.
"[members] don't have to be like-minded, but you do have to figure out how you're going to deal with these things," nestor said.
it's really interesting to watch them together; they have complex relationships."
goats are milked twice daily, in the early morning and in the evening.
milking is tricky at first (really -- it's not as easy as it looks) and friedman said new co-op members practice air-milking to build up hand strength.
there's the physical product, about a half-gallon of milk per goat per day.
privacy policy and terms of use | ©the santa fe new mexican and mediaspan opinions expressed by readers do not necessarily reflect the views of the management and staff of the santa fe new mexican.
baby goats are expected this summer, and members are committed both to the goats (which they love) and to thinking carefully about local food sources.
itsy, soufflé and reba crowded against one another and strained their necks to gobble carrot sticks from friedman's outstretched hands.
"you can't let the goats go unmilked or unfed.
dashboard camera captures nightshirt-clad shooter's attack - 11270 views - capital high students protest rules for prom - 7354 views - [photo gallery/video] police apprehend suspect in speed suv shooting - 5685 views - santa fe shelter takes in tubby tabby - 5693 views - doctor: 26 years of providing abortions worth the risk - 5179 views - claim on eccentric millionaire's property falls short in new mexico court - 4843 views - family of girl killed in crash with santa fe doctor sues - 4399 views - county begins door-to-door assessment of residential structures - 4212 views - [video] drunk man walking in highway assaults police - 3391 views - rail runner's zia road station remains deserted - 3185 views advertisement view latest comments >> powered by disqus advertisement the current issue of the real estate guide - submit a sunday open house listing - submit a sunday featured listing advertise: - view real estate listings rss: - online advertising - classified advertising - advertising rate cards - contacts - obituary & memorials visit: - santa fe news - santa fe sports - santafenewmexican.com - santafescoop.com - santafegreenline.com - taosnews.com - sangrechronicle.com - learn more about the new mexican’s commercial printing operation.
one way to do this is to produce your own.
goat co-ops are diy in action, farmyard experiential learning, started by adventurous folks who are willing to try something new.
for sure, it’s much easier to go to the store and buy goat’s milk,' said alessandra haines, steve’s wife.
everyone has to chip in during the hardest times.
"whether it's a garden or chickens or goats, the ongoing process of taking care of and investing energy in food production heightens appreciation of our interdependent relationships with animals and plants.
‘it’s really interesting to watch them together; they have complex relationships,’ said mike nestor, a founding member of the co-op. -
for  sure, it’s much easier to go to the store and buy goat’s milk,'  said alessandra haines, steve’s wife.
luis sánchez  saturno/the new mexican [video]
decision-making is a group process, and deliberations vary widely: from what kind of feed to use, whether to opt for homeopathy or western medicine when the goats get sick, and what to do when a male goat is born.
luis sánchez  saturno/the new mexican alessandra haines of santa fe on wednesday milks amore at the goat   co-op, also known as miel y leche, which is about a year and a half old.
luis  sánchez saturno/the new mexican
"but, i do think it's good for us all to know more about what we eat, and to enjoy it more.
nestor said his summer plans include experimenting with ice cream.
it doesn't always comport with your ideas about how you think things should go.
"i like good food, but i'm not a moralist about it," nestor said.
the girls at the goat co-op — amore, morphea, tulip and crystal  — are curious, friendly and almost eerily smart.
it takes a lot to keep them happy and healthy."
miel y leche and goat milkers each have about 10 members, made up of individuals and families.
many goat experiences are learn-as-you-go.
many people make cheese, kefir and yogurt.
"my friend the farrier taught me how," she said, and lifted morphea's leg to demonstrate how to trim excess growth along the edge of the hoof with garden shears.
"it's not about us and how cute we think they are," friedman said.
please consult the forum rules.
the learning curve has been steep, he said, but enjoyable, too.
at both co-ops, the goats live alongside flocks of chickens, and at miel y leche, a turkey, too.
the girls at the goat co-op — amore, morphea, tulip and crystal — are curious, friendly and almost eerily smart.
i was holding crystal when the vet did it; it's like being next to a barbecue.
everyone was happy to see one another.
[the animal] is in a ton of pain, the vet's going through layers of flesh to get to the skull.
at both co-ops, members share the costs of owning goats, which include feed (grain if they're lactating or pregnant, hay if they're not) vet visits and stud fees.
one of goat milkers' newborn kids died last year, and tulip, one of miel y leche's younger goats, has long, sharp -- and potentially dangerous -- horns because they weren't cauterized early enough.
contact adele melander-dayton at 986-3091 or amelander@sfnewmexican.com.
amore is tulip's mother, and morphea is crystal's, and the design of the pens reflects these relationships.
and everything tastes better!"
for instance, you need to cauterize the nubs that their horns grow from pretty early on.
as you approach them, they jump and turn in little circles, and once you're close enough, they strain to stick their faces through the chicken-wire fence, because they want to sniff your hands and gnaw on your sleeves.
"building and maintaining relationships with your food is weirdly rewarding," haines said.
but part of the experience is taking care of them and learning about them.’
haines, for instance, is in charge of trimming the goats' hooves.
"once you get to know the goats and care for them, you get a sense of responsibility, and that's appropriate," friedman said.
"like all modern animals, they know the sound of a plastic bag," friedman said as she readied treats for the animals.
to members, goat co-op is most rewarding way to  get milk adele melander-dayton |  the new mexican posted: sunday,  april 22, 2012  - 4/21/12
"come see why carrots are the crack cocaine of the goat world," she joked.
(at goat milkers, soufflé is pregnant, and miel y leche hopes that both tulip and crystal are, too.)
" of course, goat love is hardly a side-benefit of co-op membership.
members drink the milk -- especially if they have young children -- and can choose to pasteurize it or not.
archives credit: the new mexican photo department steve haines of santa fe filters some of amore’s milk wednesday  during one of his shifts at the goat co-op, also known as miel y leche. '
view the discussion thread.
despite setbacks and unknowns, each co-op is thriving.
belonging to a co-op has benefits beyond the milk, too, like control over what goes into the goats, learning new skills and the ultimate in localized production: making food from start to finish by yourself.
"goats are strong animals, they're active, and they're smart and social," nestor said.
"there's a certain number of people who get into co-ops that aren't ready for that.
but raising goats isn't always easy.
but part of the experience is  taking care of them and learning about them.’
" nestor echoed this statement.
nestor is a builder and led construction of the goats' living quarters.
but then the goat doesn't get horns."
you must register with a valid email address and use your real first-and-last name to comment on this forum.
"reba is especially naughty because she's a teenager," friedman said as she stroked reba's head.
send questions towebeditor@sfnewmexican.com important:
luis sánchez saturno/the new mexican [video] to members, goat co-op is most rewarding way to get milk adele melander-dayton |
"we've learned a lot -- you get a little less starry-eyed about husbandry.
nobody joins a co-op for a cheap goat-milk fix.
comments can be accepted up to eight days following publication.
this arrangement discourages nursing, although each kid can be paired with an older goat that's not its mother -- goats don't allow kids who aren't their offspring to nurse.
miel y leche is the second goat collective off of west alameda, and joins an established co-op known as the west alameda goat milkers, just a short drive up the road.
if you need help logging in or establishing your new user name and password,please write us.
the benefits of belonging to a cooperative are at once obvious and hard-to-define.
"animal husbandry can be pretty harsh," he said.
your browser does not support iframes.
- luis sánchez saturno/the new mexican alessandra haines of santa fe on wednesday milks amore at the goat co-op, also known as miel y leche, which is about a year and a half old. -
"the design of the pens needs to be tight.
"people do get very smitten with the goats," she said.
belonging to a co-op indicates a deliberate, deep engagement in community and with food.
everyone contributes to tasks like mucking the pens, maintaining fencing and structures, and making sure all members are up to date on everything goaty, whether in a written logbook or a google group.
watching soufflé, itsy and reba frolic in the sun, friedman leaned in conspiratorially.
luis sánchez saturno/the new mexican
once you've logged into the system, you'll be able to contribute comments.
comments powered by disqus coming soon!
- sfnmclassifieds.com: - jobs - cars - real estate - merchandise - legals - news - sports - opinion - pasatiempo - obituaries - magazines - photos - advertising - classifieds - subscribers - contacts - santa fe news links: - sfnmhome.com - roundhouse roundup - sf crime - green chile chatter - police notes - news briefs - business - la voz - santa fe sports links: - the read barron blog - prep - nfl - mlb - nascar - nba - golf - popular links: - sfnmhome.com - calendar - police notes - tv / movies - columns - neighbors - teen - scoop - green line - la voz - archives credit: