while some people would be horrified at the thought of an instillation, many would be horrified at the thought of taking chinese herbs or supplements--or might not be willing to change his or her diets.
the thing i have  learned about ic and really all chronic disease, is that many people can have  what may seem like exactly the same symptoms and require very different  treatment.
that said, this kind of treatment is not for everyone.
delivered by feedburner © 2011 icama all rights reserved
mbrizman's blog login or register to post comments user login
anyone who knows anything  about ic knows how individual this condition is to each person that  has it.
dr. brizman's dissertation "treating interstitial cystitis with an integrative model of classical chinese and western medicines" is now available for purchase!
again, it is in the details of the person's history and current life that you may find what is most important and significant to getting a person in optimal health and free of suffering.
i know i am very grateful for several local doctors here in la referring patients my way when they have asked for alternatives
people's sickness is as different as their individuality.
submitted by mbrizman on sat, 03/21/2009 -  16:21 of course there is not one treatment for ic!
their past and present must be gone over with a fine tooth comb.
people's sickness is as  different as their individuality.
the series of events and the order in which they occurred need to be established in order to frame a starting point for this kind of treatment.
the thing i have learned about ic and really all chronic disease, is that many people can have what may seem like exactly the same symptoms and require very different treatment.
there are many products out there that are aimed at the masses, but, in my opinion, despite good intentions, this is not such a great approach.
so, that  people can make informed decisions about their healthcare and know what avenues  are available for them to take to find the treatment they choose for themselves.
i count myself in as one person who strives to be such a person as i know all of you do.
again, it is in the details of the person's history and current life  that you may find what is most important and significant to getting a  person in optimal health and free of suffering.
i used to think at the beginning of my practice that if  i could just get smart enough or experienced enough, i could find that magic  remedy which would make everyone better from ic.
we are lucky to have access to so many  wonderful types of medicine and so much information to allow us to make  personal choices!
tenacity and patients are very important to the alternative treatment of ic.
this preference is important and significant.
i used to think at the beginning of my practice that if i could just get smart enough or experienced enough, i could find that magic remedy which would make everyone better from ic.
"it is more important to  know the person that has the disease than the disease the person has."
of course there is not one treatment for ic!
i know i am very grateful for several local doctors here in la  referring patients my way when they have asked for alternatives
many people would prefer to go the western medicine route and  take prescription meds and have instillations.
"it is more important to know the person that has the disease than the disease the person has."
a lot of patients and time are ivolved as well.
a lot of patients and time  are ivolved as well.
that said, this kind of treatment is not  for everyone.
working together as human beings to extend our hand in helping a person find options and finsd answers is what makes the human spirit so fantastic.
this preference is important and  significant.
one treatment for ic?
this is why it is so important for information to be available.
and i know when  i have made referral in the other direction those people have been equally as  grateful.
i count myself in as one person who strives to be such a  person as i know all of you do.
a person who is sick must be listened to.
working together as human beings to extend our hand in  helping a person find options and finsd answers is what makes the human spirit  so fantastic.
so, that people can make informed decisions about their healthcare and know what avenues are available for them to take to find the treatment they choose for themselves.
we are lucky to have access to so many wonderful types of medicine and so much information to allow us to make personal choices!
read my quote from hippocrates above!
while some people would be horrified at the thought of an  instillation, many would be horrified at the thought of taking chinese herbs or   supplements--or might not be willing to change his or her diets.
there are many  products out there that are aimed at the masses, but, in my opinion, despite  good intentions, this is not such a great approach.
and i know when i have made referral in the other direction those people have been equally as grateful.
tenacity and patients are very important to the  alternative treatment of ic.
anyone who knows anything about ic knows how individual this condition is to each person that has it.
a person should absolutely have the freedom to make that choice  and find the treatment that fits them and the doctor that fits them too!
a person should absolutely have the freedom to make that choice and find the treatment that fits them and the doctor that fits them too!
the series of  events and the order in which they occurred need to be established in order to  frame a starting point for this kind of treatment.
many people would prefer to go the western medicine route and take prescription meds and have instillations.
click here for more information.