but there are wonderful new faces too, especially hisproduct details isbn-10: 0312950586 myra savant harris, through her books, seminars, and active participation in online forums and lists, is a one woman support system for hundreds of breeders everywhere.
the waiting is finally over.
extensively revised and expanded on the basis of recent research findings with enlarged coverage of health effects of vitamin-like factors, it is ideally suited for students and an important reference for anyone interested in nutrition, food science, animal science or endocrinology.
written from a western approach, rather than a traditional chinese medicine  approach, it exp product details isbn-10: 1405129905 the vitamins: fundamental aspects in nutrition and health (hardcover)
but there are wonderful new faces too, especially his product details isbn-10: 0312950586 advanced canine reproduction and puppy care: the seminar (paperback) bymyra savant harris usually ships in 1-5 days
by jeff guidry usually ships in 1-5 days description from the moment jeff guidry saw the baby eagle with broken wings, his life  was changed.
living thing, part i left off.
herriot'sproduct details isbn-10: 031208188x celebrate the return of the most beloved storyteller of our time!
sign up for our email newsletter veterinary medicine - general all creatures great and small (paperback) by james herriot usually ships in 1-5 days description the classic multimillion copy bestseller delve into the magical, unforgettable world of james herriot, the world's  most beloved veterinarian, and his menagerie of heartwarming, funny, and tragic  animal patients.
by james herriot,  christopher timothy $16.95 special order - subject to availability description all new and different stories from the new york times bestseller
description myra savant harris, through her books, seminars, and active participation  in online forums and lists, is a one woman support system for hundreds of  breeders everywhere.
from the author of all creatueres great and small--an all-new, enchanting volume of memoirs that picks up whereevery
building upon the success of her previously published puppy intensive care and canine reproduction and whelping, myra's latest book based on her popular seminar of the same name explores a number of additional issues and questions in her own unique style.
for the first time in over a decade, the  world's favorite veterinarian, james herriot, returns us in a twinkle to the  rural green enclave of england called yorkshire for more irresistible tales of  animals and people.
building upon the success of her previously published  puppy intensive care and canine reproduction and whelping, myra's latest book  based on her popular seminar of the same name explores a number of additional  issues and questions in her own unique style.
for weeks he and the staff at sarvey wildlife care center in puget sound, washington, tended to the injured bird.
from the author of all creatueres great and small--an all-new,  enchanting volume of memoirs that picks up whereevery
there’product details isbn-10: 0312382952 all new and different stories from the new york times bestseller
readers will gain new insights and learn valuable techniques based on myra's many years of breeding and whelping puppies and more than 20 years of labor and delivery and neonaproduct details isbn-10: 1929242751 from the moment jeff guidry saw the baby eagle with broken wings, his life was changed.
however, many are still highly sceptical about the use of acupuncture and  prefer for it to remain far from orthodox veterinary practice.
though freedom would never fly, she had jeff as her wings.
also included is an expanded background discussion of general dietary considerations.
product details isbn-10: 0309051266
for decades, herriot roamed the remote, beautiful yorkshire dales, treating every patient that came his way from smallest to largest, and observing animals and humans alike with his keen, loving eye.
and after jeff was diagnosed with stage  three non-hodgkin’s lymphoma in 2000, freedom returned his gift.
it contains a cohesive and well-organized presentation of each of the vitamins, as well as the history of their discoveries and current information about theproduct details isbn-10: 0123819806 james herriot's final work and last in his beloved series of animal stories this fifth and final of james herriot's heartwarming story collections brings back familiar friends (including old favorites such as tricki woo) and introduces new ones, including herriot's children rosie and jimmy and the marvelously eccentric vet calum buchanan.
you'll meet his assoicate, john crooks; his partner, siegfried; more of the farmers and village-dwellers who form his diverse (and sometimes rather eccentric) clientele; and more of hisproduct details isbn-10: 1559272368 the field of pain research is rapidly expanding in both human and veterinary medicine, and has helped increase our understanding of acupuncture.
by  samantha lindley, mike cummings $86.99 usually ships in 1-5 days description the field of pain research is rapidly expanding in both human and  veterinary medicine, and has helped increase our understanding of acupuncture.
miraculously, she recovered, and jeff, a center volunteer, became her devoted caretaker.
herriot's product details isbn-10: 031208188x every living thing (mass market paperback)
product details isbn-10: 0312330855 ask the animals: a vet's-eye view of pets and the people they love  (hardcover)
between sessions of debilitating chemotherapy, jeffs visits to freedom and their special bond soothed his spirit and gave him theproduct details isbn-10: 0062015508
by james herriot usually ships in 1-5 days description celebrate the return of the most beloved storyteller of our time!
by bruce r. coston special order - subject  to availability description reminiscent of james herriot’s wonderful books, coston’s  memoir offers zany, sad, and touching stories about a medical  practice where the patients cannot speak, yet communicate deeply bruce  r. coston’s first book is a warm, funny, and amazingly  fulfilling celebration of the wonderful world of animals as seen through the  eyes of a small-town veterinarian.
miraculously, she recovered, and  jeff, a center volunteer, became her devoted caretaker.
between  sessions of debilitating chemotherapy, jeff’s visits to freedom and their  special bond soothed his spirit and gave him the product details isbn-10: 0062015508
in stories of wonders great and small, james reintroduces many old friends like mrs. pumphrey, his partner siegfried farnon, and of course, his wife helen.
for over thirty years, generations of readers have thrilled to herriot's marvelous tales, deep love of life, and extraordinary storytelling abilities.
in stories of wonders great and small, james reintroduces many old friends  like mrs. pumphrey, his partner siegfried farnon, and of course, his wife  helen.
at long last, another treat from herriot!
and after jeff was diagnosed with stage three non-hodgkins lymphoma in 2000, freedom returned his gift.
this book seeks to challenge common misgivings by showing how veterinary  acupuncture works (for small and large animals), and why it should be  established as an orthodox form of treatment.
extensively revised and expanded on the basis of recent research  findings with enlarged coverage of health effects of vitamin-like factors, it  is ideally suited for students and an important reference for anyone interested  in nutrition, food science, animal science or endocrinology.
written from a western approach, rather than a traditional chinese medicine approach, it expproduct details isbn-10: 1405129905
new features of this edition include new information on mineral deficiency and toxicity and expanded discussion of diet formulation and preparation.
for weeks he and the staff at sarvey wildlife care center in puget  sound, washington, tended to the injured bird.
for decades, herriot roamed the remote, beautiful  yorkshire dales, treating every patient that came his way from smallest to  largest, and observing animals and humans alike with his keen, loving eye.
as james grows older, he finds that change comes even to his beloved yorkshire---but not necessarily bad, as he watches his own two children come to share and participate in his deep love of the animal world.
however, many are still highly sceptical about the use of acupuncture and prefer for it to remain far from orthodox veterinary practice.
you'll meet his assoicate, john crooks; his partner, siegfried;  more of the farmers and village-dwellers who form his diverse (and sometimes  rather eccentric) clientele; and more of his product details isbn-10: 1559272368 essentials of western veterinary acupuncture (paperback)
continuing the tradition that made the first volume of stories drawn from  james herriot'severy
readers will gain new insights  and learn valuable techniques based on myra's many years of breeding and  whelping puppies and more than 20 years of labor and delivery and neona product details isbn-10: 1929242751 an eagle named freedom: my true story of a remarkable friendship  (paperback)
there&#8217 product details isbn-10: 0312382952 every living thing, part ii (audio cassette)
continuing the tradition that made the first volume of stories drawn from james herriot'severy
reminiscent of james herriot’s wonderful books, coston’s memoir offers zany, sad, and touching stories about a medical practice where the patients cannot speak, yet communicate deeplybruce r. coston’s first book is a warm, funny, and amazingly fulfilling celebration of the wonderful world of animals as seen through the eyes of a small-town veterinarian.
the patients are an eclectic and surprising cast of characters who  display incredible bravery and nobility at times, and unbelievable goofiness at  others.
it contains a  cohesive and well-organized presentation of each of the vitamins, as well as  the history of their discoveries and current information about the product  details isbn-10: 0123819806 special order - subject to availability description james herriot's final work and last in his beloved series of animal  stories this fifth and final of james herriot's  heartwarming story collections brings back familiar friends (including old  favorites such as tricki woo) and introduces new ones, including herriot's  children rosie and jimmy and the marvelously eccentric vet calum buchanan.
as james grows older, he finds that change comes even to his beloved  yorkshire---but not necessarily bad, as he watches his own two children come to  share and participate in his deep love of the animal world.
the fourth edition of this bestselling text will again provide the latest coverage of the biochemistry and physiology of vitamins and vitamin-like substances.
the patients are an eclectic and surprising cast of characters who display incredible bravery and nobility at times, and unbelievable goofiness at others.
living thing an all-time audio bestseller!
this book presents the current understanding of the lipid, carbohydrate, protein, mineral, vitamin, and other nutritional needs of laboratory animals.
for over thirty years, generations of readers have  thrilled to herriot's marvelous tales, deep love of life, and extraordinary  storytelling abilities.
extensive tables provide easy access to data and resources.
for the first time in over a decade, the world's favorite veterinarian, james herriot, returns us in a twinkle to the rural green enclave of england called yorkshire for more irresistible tales of animals and people.
though freedom would  never fly, she had jeff as her wings.
store hours monday, wednesday, thursday, friday, saturday 10am-10pm tuesday, sunday 12pm-6pm the classic multimillion copy bestseller delve into the magical, unforgettable world of james herriot, the world's most beloved veterinarian, and his menagerie of heartwarming, funny, and tragic animal patients.
this book seeks to challenge common misgivings by showing how veterinary acupuncture works (for small and large animals), and why it should be established as an orthodox form of treatment.
by gerald f. combs, jr., gerald f. combs jr $89.95 usually  ships in 1-5 days description the fourth edition of this bestselling text will again provide the latest  coverage of the biochemistry and physiology of vitamins and vitamin-like  substances.