not intended as a techniques manual, this book is a preparatory text for those considering taking an acupuncture course and those wishing to gain a solid understanding of the subject.
in stock£44.99 vat exempt
"this is a book which veterinary technicians interested in the western approach to acupuncture will find very interesting."
this book seeks to challenge common misgivings by showing how veterinary  acupuncture works (for small and large animals), and why it should be  established as an orthodox form of treatment.
[who] will find it useful to understand acupuncture in terms they are familiar with."
written from a western approach, rather than a traditional chinese medicine  approach, it explains the background and history of acupuncture and includes  key information on safety aspects, understanding pain and how acupuncture can  help, practical aspects such as types of needles and methods of restraint, and  related techniques.
exotic dvm magazine orders shipped outside of europe are eligible for vat relief and will not be charged vat.
however, many are still highly sceptical about the use of acupuncture and prefer for it to remain far from orthodox veterinary practice.
present[s] acupuncture as a analgesic option, even for those with a western mindset.”
your basket is empty samantha lindley and mike cummings the field of pain research is rapidly expanding in both human and veterinary medicine, and has helped increase our understanding of acupuncture.
best suited for veterinarians and veterinary students who are undertaking studies in acupuncture ...
however, many are still highly sceptical about the use of acupuncture and  prefer for it to remain far from orthodox veterinary practice.
essentials of western veterinary acupuncture samantha lindley and mike cummings the field of pain research is rapidly expanding in both human and  veterinary medicine, and has helped increase our understanding of acupuncture.
australian veterinary journal “ a unique westernized explanation of acupuncture regarding its benefits in pain management.
sku: 9781405129909 availability:
(national association of veterinary technicians in america , 2011)" this is an easy–to–read introductory book on the subject of veterinary acupuncture ...
well connected dog - guide to canine acupressure digital electronic acupunctoscope e600
written from a western approach, rather than a traditional chinese medicine approach, it explains the background and history of acupuncture and includes key information on safety aspects, understanding pain and how acupuncture can help, practical aspects such as types of needles and methods of restraint, and related techniques.
not intended as a techniques manual, this book is a preparatory text for  those considering taking an acupuncture course and those wishing to gain a  solid understanding of the subject.
acupuncture for dogs and cats: a pocket atlas veterinary acupuncture: ancient art to modern medicine four paws five directions
this book seeks to challenge common misgivings by showing how veterinary acupuncture works (for small and large animals), and why it should be established as an orthodox form of treatment.