his practice also includes dentists, based on the belief that dental health plays a role in chronic disease.
the swiss report also notes that david sackett, m.d., the canadian physician who is widely considered to be one of the leading pioneers in "evidence based medicine," has expressed serious concern about those researchers and physicians who consider randomized and double-blind trials as the only means to determine whether a treatment is effective or not.
we know the dominant american 'fix-it' model of medicine does not work well for all things."
subscribe to our feed
the chemical makeup of mistletoe products varies, depending on many  factors, including: the type of host tree on which the mistletoe plant grows.
in 2005, cummings had surgery to remove a tooth with a 30-year-old root  canal.
rau is a traditionally trained rheumatologist who became interested in  homeopathy and other therapies that make up "biological medicine."
"it's my way of redemption ...
" rau's approach may sound strange to many, but the queens audience included doctors and hospital administrators entrenched in the western medical world.
the report also conducted a highly-comprehensive review of  the wide body of preclinical research (fundamental physio-chemical research,  botanical studies, animal studies, and in vitro studies with human cells).
to make  this assertion, one would have to acknowledge that virtually all surgical  procedures were "unscientific" or "unproven" because so few  have undergone randomized double-blind trials.
when one considers that two of the top five largest drug companies in the world  have their headquarters in switzerland, one might assume that this country  would have a heavy interest in and bias toward conventional medicine, but such  assumptions would be wrong.
source: huffington post job opportunity: integrative physician in groton, ma posted by  lucas on 2.24.2012 groton wellness is a comprehensive holistic medical center in groton,  massachusetts that specializes in the diagnosis and non-toxic,  non-pharmaceutical treatments of chronic health challenges that are not well  served by conventional pharmaceutical approaches.
for more information on the seminars please visit, http://www.marioninstitute.org/biological-medicine-network/events/may201... by dana ullman the swiss government has a long and widely-respected history of neutrality, and therefore, reports from this government on controversial subjects need to be taken more seriously than other reports from countries that are more strongly influenced by present economic and political constituencies.
the report cited 29 studies in "upper respiratory tract infections/allergicreactions," of which 24 studies found a positive result in favor of homeopathy.
further, six out of seven controlled studies that  compared homeopathic treatment with conventional medical treatment showed that  homeopathy to be more effective than conventional medical interventions (the  one other trial found homeopathic treatment to be equivalent to conventional  medical treatment).
after assessing pre-clinical basic research and the high quality clinical studies, the swiss report affirmed that homeopathic high-potencies seem to induce regulatory effects (e.g., balancing or normalizing effects) and specific changes in cells or living organisms.
source: www.cancer.gov a different way to see medicine posted by barbara on 6.1.2011 by karen garloch karen cummings sat in the back row when her hero, dr. thomas rau, told a  queens university of charlotte audience about his unusual "biological  medicine" practice in switzerland.
for more information, see www.paracelsus.ch source: www.charlotteobserver.com watch maestro benjamin zander, conductor of the boston philharmonic orchestra, testifying before the fda that his health was restored by having his amalgams removed at the paracelsus clinic.
" rau's approach may sound strange to many, but the queens audience included  doctors and hospital administrators entrenched in the western medical world.
and still further, this report evaluated systematic reviews and  meta-analyses, outcome studies, and epidemiological research.
he  focuses on underlying causes of chronic disease, such as metal toxicity,  inflammation, and digestive imbalances.
at the swiss clinic, cummings had four amalgam fillings and the dental implant removed from her mouth.
their clinical staff works collaboratively and consists of medical and naturopathic doctors, holistic dentists, a nurse practitioner, acupuncturists, massage therapists and colon hydrotherapists.
this wide review carefully evaluated the studies conducted, both in terms of quality of design and execution (called "internal validity") and how appropriate each was for the way that homeopathy is commonly practiced (called "external validity").
the report also conducted a highly-comprehensive review of the wide body of preclinical research (fundamental physio-chemical research, botanical studies, animal studies, and in vitro studies with human cells).
the swiss report noted that the  shang team did not even adhere to the quorum guidelines which are widely  recognized standards for scientific reporting (linde, jonas, 2005).
the authors of the swiss government's report acknowledge that a part of the overall review of research included one negative review of clinical research in homeopathy (shang, et al, 2005).
the subject of external validity is of special importance because some scientists and physicians conduct research on homeopathy with little or no understanding of this type of medicine (some studies tested a homeopathic medicine that is rarely used for the condition tested, while others utilized medicines not commonly indicated for specific patients).
the authors of the swiss government's report acknowledge that a part of  the overall review of research included one negative review of clinical  research in homeopathy (shang, et al, 2005).
the shang  team initially evaluated 110 homeopathic clinical trials and then sought to  compare them with a matching 110 conventional medical trials.
rather  than compare these high quality trials (which would have shown a positive  result for homeopathy), the shang team created criteria to ignore a majority of  high quality homeopathic studies, thereby trumping up support for their  original hypothesis and bias that homeopathic medicines may not be effective  (lüdtke, rutten, 2008).
the  provisional reimbursement for these alternative treatments ended in 2005, but  as a result of this new study, the swiss government's health insurance program  once again began to reimburse for homeopathy and select alternative treatments.
through a friend, she heard about rau and his paracelsus clinic in switzerland and went there for treatment.
it has also been shown in  the laboratory to prevent the growth of new blood vessels needed for tumors to  grow, kill mouse, rat, and human cancer cells, and protect the dna in white  blood cells, including cells that have been exposed to dna-damaging  chemotherapy drugs.
the next article will discuss further evidence provided in this report from the swiss government on the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of homeopathic care.
this wide review  carefully evaluated the studies conducted, both in terms of quality of design  and execution (called "internal validity") and how appropriate each  was for the way that homeopathy is commonly practiced (called "external  validity").
the report cited 29 studies in "upper respiratory tract  infections/allergicreactions," of which 24 studies found a positive result  in favor of homeopathy.
the species of mistletoe.
karen cummings, 56, feels normal again.
in fact, as a result of a national referendum in which more than two-thirds of voters supported the inclusion of homeopathic and select alternative medicines in switzerland's national health care insurance program, the field of complementary and alternative medicine has become a part of this government's constitution (dacey, 2009; rist, schwabl, 2009).
further, about half of  swiss physicians consider cam treatments to be effective.
training and the second, may 11-12, will focus on paradigms of biological  medicine.
this breakthrough report affirmed that homeopathic treatment is both effective and cost-effective and that homeopathic treatment should be reimbursed by switzerland's national health insurance program.
they are seeking a like-minded md or do who is interested in working as an  equal part of an integrative team.
the first, may 10-12, is a contact regulation thermography (crt)
the chemical makeup of mistletoe products varies, depending on many factors, including: mistletoe extracts are usually given by injection under the skin (subcutaneous).
the provisional reimbursement for these alternative treatments ended in 2005, but as a result of this new study, the swiss government's health insurance program once again began to reimburse for homeopathy and select alternative treatments.
shang and his team determined that there were 22 "high quality" homeopathic studies but only nine "high quality" conventional medical studies.
several suggested she needed  psychological help.
for three years, she searched for help, including several  weeks at the mayo clinic.
rau's ideas about curing disease by ridding the body of heavy metals and re-establishing healthy intestinal bacteria are not well-known in this country.
when such  studies inevitably showed that the homeopathic medicine did not  "work," the real and accurate assessment must be that the studies  were set up to disprove homeopathy... or simply, the study was an exploratory  trial that sought to evaluate the results of a new treatment (exploratory  trials of this nature are not meant to prove or disprove the system of  homeopathy but only to evaluate that specific treatment for a person with a  specific condition).
it was used by the druids  and the ancient greeks, and appears in legend and folklore as a panacea or  "cure -all", being used for centuries to treat medical conditions  such as epilepsy, hypertension, headaches, menopausal symptoms, infertility,  arthritis, and rheumatism.
she was also treated for fungal poisoning,  discovered with a test called dark field microscopy.
they are willing to train the right candidate but would prefer someone with at least an academic understanding of biological medicine and functional medicine principles and a sincerely demonstrated interest in alternative approaches to the treatment of chronic disease.
the 220-seat auditorium sold out in 24 hours, and more than 150 copies of his  book, "the swiss secret to optimal health," were sold that night.
the company that makes the product.
he went through detoxification  and began eating different foods and taking supplements.
several suggested she needed psychological help.
to find out more, please respond with a letter of interest and cv to  drhartmann@grotonwellness.com mistletoe: not just for kissing anymore posted by lucas on  12.26.2011 mistletoe is a semi-parasitic plant that grows on several types of trees,  including apple, oak, maple, elm, pine, and birch.
her local doctors could find nothing wrong.
they also provide adjunctive cancer support by integrating state-of-the-art dental, medical and detoxification protocols that remove obstacles to cure and activate the natural healing intelligence inherent in us all.
in 2005, cummings had surgery to remove a tooth with a 30-year-old root canal.
all of these results from homeopathic treatment came without the side effects common to conventional drug treatment.
when such studies inevitably showed that the homeopathic medicine did not "work," the real and accurate assessment must be that the studies were set up to disprove homeopathy... or simply, the study was an exploratory trial that sought to evaluate the results of a new treatment (exploratory trials of this nature are not meant to prove or disprove the system of homeopathy but only to evaluate that specific treatment for a person with a specific condition).
like his wife, he had dental amalgams and a root canal removed.
the subject of external validity is of special importance  because some scientists and physicians conduct research on homeopathy with  little or no understanding of this type of medicine (some studies tested a  homeopathic medicine that is rarely used for the condition tested, while others  utilized medicines not commonly indicated for specific patients).
this breakthrough report affirmed that  homeopathic treatment is both effective and cost-effective and that homeopathic  treatment should be reimbursed by switzerland's national health insurance  program.
his practice also includes dentists,  based on the belief that dental health plays a role in chronic disease.
less common ways to give mistletoe include by mouth, into a vein (intravenous or iv), into the pleural cavity, or into the tumor.
the shang team initially evaluated 110 homeopathic clinical trials and then sought to compare them with a matching 110 conventional medical trials.
in my view, for a treatment to be determined to be "effective"  or "scientifically proven," a much more comprehensive assessment of  what works and doesn't is required.
whether the extract is prepared with homeopathic methods.
in late 2011, the swiss government's report on homeopathic medicine  represents the most comprehensive evaluation of homeopathic medicine ever  written by a government and was just published in book form in english  (bornhoft and matthiessen, 2011).
we know the dominant american 'fix-it' model of medicine  does not work well for all things."
approximately half of the swiss population have used cam treatments and value them.
they are seeking a like-minded md or do who is interested in working as an equal part of an integrative team.
today, he says his blood pressure is lower than it has been in 15 years, without medicine, and his allergies are better than ever, without weekly shots.
but tests showed his body was also overloaded with toxic metals.
in my view, for a treatment to be determined to be "effective" or "scientifically proven," a much more comprehensive assessment of what works and doesn't is required.
* (bornhöft, wolf, von ammon, et al, 2006)
it has also been shown in the laboratory to prevent the growth of new blood vessels needed for tumors to grow, kill mouse, rat, and human cancer cells, and protect the dna in white blood cells, including cells that have been exposed to dna-damaging chemotherapy drugs.
to make this assertion, one would have to acknowledge that virtually all surgical procedures were "unscientific" or "unproven" because so few have undergone randomized double-blind trials.
perhaps most  significantly, 85 percent of the swiss population wants cam therapies to be a  part of their country's health insurance program.
like his wife, he  had dental amalgams and a root canal removed.
all of these results from homeopathic treatment came  without the side effects common to conventional drug treatment.
perhaps most significantly, 85 percent of the swiss population wants cam therapies to be a part of their country's health insurance program.
i really want to give hope that there is a new fresh way.
dr. bill cody, dean of the blair college of health at queens, said the goal of its wellness institute is to "bring forward new ideas, and even controversial ideas ...
the swiss report found a particularly strong body of evidence to support  the homeopathic treatment of upper respiratory tract infections and respiratory  allergies.
whether the extract is fermented or unfermented.
"there's probably something to it," said michael tarwater, ceo  of carolinas healthcare system.
rau is a traditionally trained rheumatologist who became interested in homeopathy and other therapies that make up "biological medicine."
the swiss government's "health technology assessment" the swiss government's "health technology assessment" on homeopathic medicine is much more comprehensive than any previous governmental report written on this subject to date.
ultimately, the swiss government's report on homeopathy represents an evaluation of homeopathy that included an assessment of randomized double blind trials as well as other bodies of evidence, all of which together lead the report to determine that homeopathic medicines are indeed effective.
despite high blood pressure and allergies, he thought himself healthy.
the swiss report noted that the shang team did not even adhere to the quorum guidelines which are widely recognized standards for scientific reporting (linde, jonas, 2005).
for more information on the seminars please visit,  http://www.marioninstitute.org/biological-medicine-network/events/may201... the swiss government's remarkable report on homeopathic medicine posted by lucas on 3.13.2012 by dana ullman the swiss government has a long and widely-respected history of  neutrality, and therefore, reports from this government on controversial  subjects need to be taken more seriously than other reports from countries that  are more strongly influenced by present economic and political constituencies.
approximately half of the swiss  population have used cam treatments and value them.
he focuses on underlying causes of chronic disease, such as metal toxicity, inflammation, and digestive imbalances.
not only did this report carefully and comprehensively review the body of evidence from randomized double-blind and placebo controlled clinical trials testing homeopathic medicines, they also evaluated the "real world effectiveness" as well as safety and cost-effectiveness.
it was used by the druids and the ancient greeks, and appears in legend and folklore as a panacea or "cure -all", being used for centuries to treat medical conditions such as epilepsy, hypertension, headaches, menopausal symptoms, infertility, arthritis, and rheumatism.
in certain european countries, products made from european mistletoe are among the most prescribed therapies for cancer patients.
source: huffington post groton wellness is a comprehensive holistic medical center in groton, massachusetts that specializes in the diagnosis and non-toxic, non-pharmaceutical treatments of chronic health challenges that are not well served by conventional pharmaceutical approaches.
in evaluating  only the randomized placebo controlled trials, 12 out of 16 studies showed a  positive result in favor of homeopathy.
through a friend, she heard about rau and his paracelsus clinic in  switzerland and went there for treatment.
ultimately, the swiss government's report  on homeopathy represents an evaluation of homeopathy that included an  assessment of randomized double blind trials as well as other bodies of  evidence, all of which together lead the report to determine that homeopathic  medicines are indeed effective.
their clinical staff works collaboratively  and consists of medical and naturopathic doctors, holistic dentists, a nurse  practitioner, acupuncturists, massage therapists and colon hydrotherapists.
both seminars will feature leading physicians frank pleus, md and james
it is therefore not surprising that more than 50 percent of the swiss population surveyed prefer a hospital that provides cam treatments rather to one that is limited to conventional medical care.
modern interest in mistletoe as a possible treatment for cancer began in  the 1920s and is one of the most widely studied complementary and alternative  medicine therapies for it.
this may the biological medicine network is offereing two seminars in new bedford, ma.
however, the authors noted that  this review of research has been widely and harshly criticized by both  advocates and non-advocates of homeopathy.
in certain european countries, products made from  european mistletoe are among the most prescribed therapies for cancer patients.
the first, may 10-12, is a contact regulation thermography (crt) training and the second, may 11-12, will focus on paradigms of biological medicine.
source: www.cancer.gov by karen garloch karen cummings sat in the back row when her hero, dr. thomas rau, told a queens university of charlotte audience about his unusual "biological medicine" practice in switzerland.
he claims to have cured multiple sclerosis, breast cancer, fibromyalgia and rheumatoid arthritis.
not only did this report carefully and  comprehensively review the body of evidence from randomized double-blind and  placebo controlled clinical trials testing homeopathic medicines, they also  evaluated the "real world effectiveness" as well as safety and  cost-effectiveness.
extracts of mistletoe have been shown to kill cancer cells in the  laboratory and to boost the immune system and for this reason, it has been  classified as a type of biological response modifier.
modern interest in mistletoe as a possible treatment for cancer began in the 1920s and is one of the most widely studied complementary and alternative medicine therapies for it.
the swiss government's "health technology assessment" the swiss government's "health technology assessment" on  homeopathic medicine is much more comprehensive than any previous governmental  report written on this subject to date.
dr. bill cody, dean of the blair college of health at queens, said the  goal of its wellness institute is to "bring forward new ideas, and even  controversial ideas ...
i really want to  give hope that there is a new fresh way.
at the swiss clinic, cummings had four amalgam fillings and the dental  implant removed from her mouth.
the swiss report also notes that david sackett, m.d., the canadian  physician who is widely considered to be one of the leading pioneers in  "evidence based medicine," has expressed serious concern about those  researchers and physicians who consider randomized and double-blind trials as  the only means to determine whether a treatment is effective or not.
after assessing pre-clinical basic research and the high quality clinical  studies, the swiss report affirmed that homeopathic high-potencies seem to  induce regulatory effects (e.g., balancing or normalizing effects) and specific  changes in cells or living organisms.
in evaluating only the randomized placebo controlled trials, 12 out of 16 studies showed a positive result in favor of homeopathy.
she wanted others in charlotte to hear rau's philosophy.
when one considers that two of the top five largest drug companies in the world have their headquarters in switzerland, one might assume that this country would have a heavy interest in and bias toward conventional medicine, but such assumptions would be wrong.
she was also treated for fungal poisoning, discovered with a test called dark field microscopy.
this may the biological medicine network is offereing two seminars in new  bedford, ma.
mistletoe extracts are usually given by injection under the skin  (subcutaneous).
in late 2011, the swiss government's report on homeopathic medicine represents the most comprehensive evaluation of homeopathic medicine ever written by a government and was just published in book form in english (bornhoft and matthiessen, 2011).
"i don't think we should dismiss anything  out of hand without understanding it."
the report also reported that 20 of the  22 systematic reviews of clinical research testing homeopathic medicines  detected at least a trend in favor of homeopathy.
rather than compare these high quality trials (which would have shown a positive result for homeopathy), the shang team created criteria to ignore a majority of high quality homeopathic studies, thereby trumping up support for their original hypothesis and bias that homeopathic medicines may not be effective (lüdtke, rutten, 2008).
the report also reported that 20 of the 22 systematic reviews of clinical research testing homeopathic medicines detected at least a trend in favor of homeopathy.
she wanted others in charlotte to  hear rau's philosophy.
further, six out of seven controlled studies that compared homeopathic treatment with conventional medical treatment showed that homeopathy to be more effective than conventional medical interventions (the one other trial found homeopathic treatment to be equivalent to conventional medical treatment).
this reimbursement was  provisional while the swiss government commissioned an extensive study on these  treatments to determine if they were effective and cost-effective.
however, the authors noted that this review of research has been widely and harshly criticized by both advocates and non-advocates of homeopathy.
less common ways to give mistletoe include by mouth, into a  vein (intravenous or iv), into the pleural cavity, or into the tumor.
to find out more, please respond with a letter of interest and cv to drhartmann@grotonwellness.com mistletoe is a semi-parasitic plant that grows on several types of trees, including apple, oak, maple, elm, pine, and birch.
he went through detoxification and began eating different foods and taking supplements.
beginning in 1998, the government of switzerland decided to broaden its  national health insurance to include certain complementary and alternative  medicines, including homeopathic medicine, traditional chinese medicine, herbal  medicine, anthroposophic medicine, and neural therapy.
but  tests showed his body was also overloaded with toxic metals.
he visited charlotte earlier this year at the invitation of cummings, who learned about him the hard way.
the swiss government's inquiry into homeopathy and complementary and  alternative (cam) treatments resulted from the high demand and widespread use  of alternatives to conventional medicine in switzerland, not only from  consumers but from physicians as well.
it is therefore not surprising that more than 50 percent of the swiss  population surveyed prefer a hospital that provides cam treatments rather to  one that is limited to conventional medical care.
shang and his  team determined that there were 22 "high quality" homeopathic studies  but only nine "high quality" conventional medical studies.
the time of year the plant is harvested.
shortly after, she developed strange symptoms - rashes on her back, blisters on her head, fatigue and unexplained weight loss.
the swiss government's inquiry into homeopathy and complementary and alternative (cam) treatments resulted from the high demand and widespread use of alternatives to conventional medicine in switzerland, not only from consumers but from physicians as well.
extracts of mistletoe have been shown to kill cancer cells in the laboratory and to boost the immune system and for this reason, it has been classified as a type of biological response modifier.
bmn seminars in may posted by glenn on 3.13.2012
for more information, see www.paracelsus.ch source: www.charlotteobserver.com testimony of maestro benjamin zander posted by barbara on 1.24.2011 watch maestro benjamin zander, conductor of the boston philharmonic  orchestra, testifying before the fda that his health was restored by having his  amalgams removed at the paracelsus clinic.
the next article will discuss further evidence provided in this report  from the swiss government on the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of  homeopathic care.
this reimbursement was provisional while the swiss government commissioned an extensive study on these treatments to determine if they were effective and cost-effective.
in fact, as a result of a national referendum in which more than two-thirds of  voters supported the inclusion of homeopathic and select alternative medicines  in switzerland's national health care insurance program, the field of  complementary and alternative medicine has become a part of this government's  constitution (dacey, 2009; rist, schwabl, 2009).
she had cadaver bone and a new tooth implanted in her jaw.
he  claims to have cured multiple sclerosis, breast cancer, fibromyalgia and  rheumatoid arthritis.
beginning in 1998, the government of switzerland decided to broaden its national health insurance to include certain complementary and alternative medicines, including homeopathic medicine, traditional chinese medicine, herbal medicine, anthroposophic medicine, and neural therapy.
further, about half of swiss physicians consider cam treatments to be effective.
"i don't think we should dismiss anything out of hand without understanding it."
and still further, this report evaluated systematic reviews and meta-analyses, outcome studies, and epidemiological research.
the swiss report found a particularly strong body of evidence to support the homeopathic treatment of upper respiratory tract infections and respiratory allergies.
rau's ideas about curing disease by ridding the body of heavy metals and  re-establishing healthy intestinal bacteria are not well-known in this country.
while in switzerland, cummings' husband, steve, also had a checkup.
they are willing to train the right candidate but would prefer someone  with at least an academic understanding of biological medicine and functional  medicine principles and a sincerely demonstrated interest in alternative  approaches to the treatment of chronic disease.
the 220-seat auditorium sold out in 24 hours, and more than 150 copies of his book, "the swiss secret to optimal health," were sold that night.
* (bornhöft, wolf, von  ammon, et al, 2006)
they also provide adjunctive  cancer support by integrating state-of-the-art dental, medical and  detoxification protocols that remove obstacles to cure and activate the natural  healing intelligence inherent in us all.
he visited charlotte earlier this year at the invitation of cummings, who  learned about him the hard way.
both seminars will feature leading physicians frank pleus, md and james odell, omd.
today, he says his  blood pressure is lower than it has been in 15 years, without medicine, and his  allergies are better than ever, without weekly shots.
for three years, she searched for help, including several weeks at the mayo clinic.
shortly  after, she developed strange symptoms - rashes on her back, blisters on her  head, fatigue and unexplained weight loss.
"there's probably something to it," said michael tarwater, ceo of carolinas healthcare system.