bullmastiffinfo.org:  acupuncture and herbal care is also conducted  on humans, would you be able to perform acupuncture and herbal care on humans  as well?
dr. vavra: there are many sources of chinese herbals out there.
if you  would like more information about holistic medicine, please contact dr. carol  a. vavra at dr. carol a. vavra
bullmastiffinfo.org:  many families are still hesitant to try  holistic care for their beloved companion.
are there different methods of acupuncture?
the meridians would be in the same anatomical  positions in the different breeds.
please explain what meridians are.
carol a. vavra dr. carol vavra's experience stems from working in many different types of clinics, ranging from emergency clinics, to full service clinics, to out-patient clinics.
the majority of herbals are formulated for humans i know of only one company that formulates herbals specifically for dogs, cats, and horses.
and our thanks to hooch for allowing us to photograph him during one of his treatments for hip dysplasia.
quicktime video plug-in bullmastiffinfo.org:  please explain what  holistic medicine is.
dr. vavra: most of these therapies work to bring the body back into balance so results can take time.
quicktime video plug-in bullmastiffinfo.org:  please explain what  “meridians” are.
that was when she began learning about acupuncture and how it was used for pain relief.
these tcm principals include yin/yang imbalances, hot or cold conditions, wind or damp conditions, and many others, most of which do not have a western medicine definition.
bullmastiffinfo.org:  what about in different breeds within the same  species?
we as veterinarians are not trained in human medicine and, even though much of the physiology and disease processes are the same, should not attempt to practice medicine on a human.
closing thoughts: dr. vavra: traditional chinese medicine and other  complementary therapies are gaining acceptance and popularity in the united  states, but have been practiced in other areas of the world for hundreds and  even thousands of years.
if you would like more information about holistic medicine, please contact dr. carol a. vavra at dr. carol a. vavra niceville, florida united states e-mail: cvavradvm@yahoo.com all rights reserved.
bullmastiffinfo.org:  holistic medicine is slowly becoming more  acceptable by veterinarian clinics that primarily practice western medicine and  techniques.
i believe  in both these cases the veterinarians are not aware of exactly what conditions  can be treated with alternative therapies, or they feel if western medicine is  not helping, nothing can.
credentials are always important when looking for a qualified holistic practitioner, what should a client look for when searching for a holistic veterinarian for their companion?
a look into holistic veterinary care dr. carol a. vavra n iceville, florida united states e-mail: cvavradvm@yahoo.com dr. carol a. vavradr.
what advice can you give to these families to become more comfortable with the merge between holistic and conventional veterinary care?
i truly believe that it is our responsibility as pet owners and veterinarians to research and offer the best possible care for our loved ones, whether two- or four-legged.
that was when she began learning about acupuncture and how it was  used for pain relief.
education is the key here.
many more conditions can be  treated, conditions which wouldn’t immediately come to mind.
bullmastiffinfo.org:  do these “meridians” differ from  species to species?
and, of course, each animal responds differently.
if the current treatment, whatever it is, is no longer working for their pet, they should ask their veterinarian to help them find someone who can answer their questions about alternative therapies.
variations include the number of points selected, length of the treatment time, method of point stimulation, and types of points used.
this  discusses traditional chinese medicine theory and how it is applied using  acupressure, herbals, and food.
dr. vavra: many veterinarians will refer their patients for  alternative therapies as a last resort, when no other treatments are  working.
more studies are required on birds, but many points have been used with various  degrees of success.
she began learning holistic veterinary care after becoming increasingly frustrated at seeing the same problems over and over again in our pets such as arthritis, back (disc) abnormalities, and others.
both work equally well and are prescribed in the same manner.
and last, they should ask themselves if they are happy with  the results of the specific treatment their pet is receiving.
this should never be encouraged for many reasons, the main one  being that the proper diagnosis was usually never made.
a client should never be told that  “this way” is the only way to treat their animal, whether it be  conventional medicine, or acupuncture, or chiropractic care, or  homeopathy…  if any practitioner says this they should go for a  second opinion, or third opinion.
they will be surprised.
they believe if they see a holistic  veterinarian they will be told that all conventional medicine is bad and they  should stop all medications, vaccines, and other therapies.
they should trust  their veterinarian to give them the most recent information or be able to refer  them to someone who can.
i believe in both these cases the veterinarians are not aware of exactly what conditions can be treated with alternative therapies, or they feel if western medicine is not helping, nothing can.
i may see 3 different animals with hip  dysplasia, and each would require a different chinese herbal formulation based  on the tcm diagnosis.
dr. vavra: painful conditions such as arthritis and back  problems usually respond well.
and our thanks to hooch for allowing us  to photograph him during one of his treatments for hip dysplasia.
do these meridians differ from species to species?
dr. vavra: holistic medicine to me means using all aspects of medicine to help prevent, diagnose, or treat disease.
dr. vavra: i can be contacted at cvavradvm@yahoo.com.
bullmastiffinfo.org:
dr. vavra: this is not only unwise, but illegal.
bullmastiffinfo.org: what about in different breeds within the same species?
dr. vavra: my favorite book for clients about chinese medicine is four paws five directions :by cheryl schwartz dvm.
in the past many human acupuncturists would do  acupuncture on animals, mainly because veterinary acupuncturists did not  exist.
bullmastiffinfo.org:  please explain what practices are involved  with holistic veterinary medicine.
dr. vavra: there are many sources of chinese herbals out  there.
there are many books out there about  treating animals in a more natural way and it is important that clients discuss  any treatments with their veterinarian or a veterinarian who is interested in  holistic therapies.
becoming more familiar with alternative  therapies will help all veterinarians talk about these with their clients and  offer more treatment options early in the course of a disease.
bullmastiffinfo.org:  would the client have to continue the same  treatment for the duration of their life to continue good health or would they  be “cured” of the actual ailment after a set number of  treatments?
it is so important for our pets to undergo all appropriate diagnostics including bloodwork, x-rays, ultrasound, biopsies, and other tests as determined by the veterinarian.
quicktime video plug-in bullmastiffinfo.org:
it is essential to establish the correct diagnosis and western medicine is always needed before the correct treatments can begin.
this is why we ask many  questions about the pet’s habits, preferences, and daily behavior, and  want to know about the environment they live in.
closing thoughts: dr. vavra: traditional chinese medicine and other complementary therapies are gaining acceptance and popularity in the united states, but have been practiced in other areas of the world for hundreds and even thousands of years.
some may take 7-8 treatments to see a  response.
animals who have paralysis or
dr. vavra: many modalities now have certification  courses.
and last, they should ask themselves if they are happy with the results of the specific treatment their pet is receiving.
many different techniques can be used when  using traditional chinese medicine (tcm) to diagnose and treat our pets.
dr. vavra: chinese herbals work using tcm principals, and not  the western medicine diagnosis.
animals with chronic conditions (arthritis, cancer, disc problems, kidney disease, etc) will need ongoing treatment, but the goal is to eventually space these out so we may only see them every few weeks to months.
shortly after that she began the veterinary acupuncture certification program offered by the chi institute of traditional chinese medicine in central florida.
becoming more familiar with alternative therapies will help all veterinarians talk about these with their clients and offer more treatment options early in the course of a disease.
are there different  methods of acupuncture?
it is essential to establish the correct  diagnosis and western medicine is always needed before the correct treatments  can begin.
dr. vavra: meridians are energy channels in the body - most  acupuncture points are located on meridians.
and  this holds true for human acupuncturists treating animals.
weakness in the limbs can also be helped.
there are many books out there about treating animals in a more natural way and it is important that clients discuss any treatments with their veterinarian or a veterinarian who is interested in holistic therapies.
in the past many human acupuncturists would do acupuncture on animals, mainly because veterinary acupuncturists did not exist.
the best practitioner will use a combination of therapies to help the pet, and the veterinarians should work together to formulate the best treatment.
dr. vavra: the more we can offer the client, the greater the chance we can help their pets.
bullmastiffinfo.org: acupuncture and herbal care is also conducted on humans, would you be able to perform acupuncture and herbal care on humans as well?
bullmastiffinfo.org:  are these herbs easily accessible over the  counter?  or should the herbals that are used be specifically made for  animals?
i  will only be able to answer general questions about traditional chinese  medicine and other alternative therapies without actually seeing an  animal.
also, more and more clients are seeking treatments other than medications, chemotherapy, or surgeries, or want to minimize these if they can.
bullmastiffinfo.org: bullmastiffinfo.org would like to  personally thank dr. carol a. vavra for taking the time to share her thoughts  and experience with our readers!
in your practice you incorporate the knowledge of both western and eastern philosophies.
a look into holistic veterinary care dr. carol a. vavra n iceville, florida  united states e-mail:  cvavradvm@yahoo.com dr. carol a. vavra dr. carol vavra's experience stems from working in many different types of  clinics, ranging from emergency clinics, to full service clinics, to  out-patient clinics.
what advice can you give to  these families to become more comfortable with the merge between holistic and  conventional veterinary care?
dr. vavra: my favorite book for clients about chinese  medicine is four paws five directions :by cheryl schwartz dvm.
a few animals will not respond at all.
shortly after that she began the veterinary  acupuncture certification program offered by the chi institute of traditional  chinese medicine in central florida.
if the current treatment, whatever it is, is no longer working  for their pet, they should ask their veterinarian to help them find someone who  can answer their questions about alternative therapies.
some will never refer for alternative therapies.
along those same lines, anyone who buys herbals (veterinarians, other professionals) wants to be confident that there is quality control within the company and we are getting what we order.
this site is best viewed in screen resolution 1024 x 768 and browser ms internet explorer 5.0 or above.
bullmastiffinfo.org:  what conditions are most receptive to  acupuncture and herbal treatment?
bullmastiffinfo.org:   are there any books and/or articles  that you recommend for pet owners that would like to become more acquainted  with holistic practices for their pets?
medications and surgery could only help to a certain degree.
bullmastiffinfo.org:  what is acupuncture?
are the painkillers still working?
two other books that discuss acupressure are acu-cat, a guide to  feline acupressure, and the well connected dog, a guide to canine acupressure,  both by amy snow and nancy zidonis.
dr. vavra: chinese herbals work using tcm principals, and not the western medicine diagnosis.
please explain what holistic medicine is.
bullmastiffinfo.org:  how soon would a client see results as a  result of holistic care?
i truly believe that it is our responsibility as  pet owners and veterinarians to research and offer the best possible care for  our loved ones, whether two- or four-legged.
veterinarians who practice acupuncture, chiropractic care, and  homeopathy can and should be certified.
the majority of herbals are formulated for humans – i know of only one  company that formulates herbals specifically for dogs, cats, and horses.
variations include the number of points selected, length of the treatment time,  method of point stimulation, and types of points used.
dr. vavra: this depends.
how does help you help your  clients?
secondly, i think many people are put off by the term holistic.
medications and surgery could only help to a certain  degree.
bullmastiffinfo.org: what conditions are most receptive to acupuncture and herbal treatment?
dr. vavra: i prefer to cal it complementary medicine because these modalities are used in conjunction with conventional medicine.
bullmastiffinfo.org:    what is the best way to contact  you for an appointment and/or consultation?
more studies are required on birds, but many points have been used with various degrees of success.
i may see 3 different animals with hip dysplasia, and each would require a different chinese herbal formulation based on the tcm diagnosis.
below dr. vavra gives us a better understanding of holistic care for our  beloved companions.
dr. vavra: i can be contacted at  cvavradvm@yahoo.com.
i also like natural healing for dogs and cats a-z, also by cheryl schwartz dvm.
veterinarians who practice acupuncture, chiropractic care, and homeopathy can and should be certified.
please explain what practices are involved with holistic veterinary medicine.
animals with chronic conditions such as kidney and liver disease and animals with cancer can also benefit from acupuncture and herbals.
in many animals we see an initial  response to the first 1-2 acupuncture treatments, and they will continue to  improve with more treatments.
now that there  are many veterinary acupuncturists out there, this should not be a problem.
dr. vavra: not dramatically when we are talking about mammals.
along those same  lines, anyone who buys herbals (veterinarians, other professionals) wants to be  confident that there is quality control within the company and we are getting  what we order.
we as  veterinarians are not trained in human medicine and, even though much of the  physiology and disease processes are the same, should not attempt to practice  medicine on a human.
the more we can offer the client, the greater the  chance we can help their pets.
we can then look at all the treatment  options, and many times a combination of western and chinese medicine is the  best way to go.
the best practitioner will use a combination of therapies to help  the pet, and the veterinarians should work together to formulate the best  treatment.
bullmastiffinfo.org: how soon would a client see results as a result of holistic care?
i will only be able to answer general questions about traditional chinese medicine and other alternative therapies without actually seeing an animal.
they get more energy and owners find they participate in daily activities more.
this must include conventional western medicine as well as alternative modalities such as supplements, herbals (both western and chinese), homeopathy, etc. bullmastiffinfo.org:
website engineered and maintained by ahmylan impressions, incorporated.
dr. vavra: acupuncture is the process of stimulating certain points along meridians in the body to create a physiologic response that helps treat and prevent disease.
i also find geriatric animals respond well  to basic geriatric support.
i encourage anyone with a pet who is battling a problem to find a veterinarian who is familiar with alternative therapies and ask what more can be done.
in your practice you incorporate the knowledge  of both western and eastern philosophies.
animals with acute conditions (bacterial infections, diarrhea, soft tissue injuries) may only need a few treatments.
animals who have paralysis or weakness in the limbs can also be helped.
dr. vavra: painful conditions such as arthritis and back problems usually respond well.
how does help you help your clients?
for those clinics that have not yet opened their doors to  holistic care, what advice do you have for them to become more comfortable with  this eastern concept?
animals  with chronic conditions such as kidney and liver disease and animals with  cancer can also benefit from acupuncture and herbals.
also, more  and more clients are seeking treatments other than medications, chemotherapy,  or surgeries, or want to minimize these if they can.
the meridians would be in the same anatomical positions in the different breeds.
secondly, i think many people are put  off by the term “holistic”.
what about  side effects?
this must include  conventional western medicine as well as alternative modalities such as  supplements, herbals (both western and chinese), homeopathy, etc. bullmastiffinfo.org:
the concept of treating the whole animal,  not just the particular ailment, is the most important aspect of the treatment  and this is what acupuncture and chinese herbal formulations do.
dr. vavra: holistic medicine to me means using all aspects of  medicine to help prevent, diagnose, or treat disease.
many more conditions can be treated, conditions which wouldnt immediately come to mind.
i also like natural healing for dogs and cats a-z, also by cheryl schwartz  dvm.
they will be  surprised.
it is so important for our pets to undergo all appropriate  diagnostics including bloodwork, x-rays, ultrasound, biopsies, and other tests  as determined by the veterinarian.
now that there are many veterinary acupuncturists out there, this should not be a problem.
this should never be encouraged for many reasons, the main one being that the proper diagnosis was usually never made.
has the cancer returned?
copyright 1994 - 2002 bullmastiffinfo.org click here for website dedications honors & awards webrings notices, disclaimers, & copyrights please report all technical questions to thewebmaster.
animals with acute conditions  (bacterial infections, diarrhea, soft tissue injuries) may only need a few  treatments.
this is  such a basic concept but is forgotten in many practices and also lost in human  medicine.
many different techniques can be used when using traditional chinese medicine (tcm) to diagnose and treat our pets.
dr. vavra: meridians are energy channels in the body - most acupuncture points are located on meridians.
they include acupuncture, homeopathy, chiropractic therapies, herbal therapy (both western and eastern), supplements, nutrition, orthomolecular therapy, magnetic therapy and others.
reputable companies should only sell herbals to professionals who have a knowledge of herbals and how to prescribe them.
many families are still hesitant to try holistic care for their beloved companion.
some may take 7-8 treatments to see a response.
a client should never be told that this way is the only way to treat their animal, whether it be conventional medicine, or acupuncture, or chiropractic care, or homeopathy if any practitioner says this they should go for a second opinion, or third opinion.
they believe if they see a holistic veterinarian they will be told that all conventional medicine is bad and they should stop all medications, vaccines, and other therapies.
in many animals we see an initial response to the first 1-2 acupuncture treatments, and they will continue to improve with more treatments.
dr. vavra: the first and most important point is that it must  be a merge of all modalities.
bullmastiffinfo.org:  credentials are always important when  looking for a qualified holistic practitioner, what should a client look for  when searching for a holistic veterinarian for their companion?
i encourage anyone  with a pet who is battling a problem to find a veterinarian who is familiar  with alternative therapies and ask what more can be done.
holistic medicine is slowly becoming more acceptable by veterinarian clinics that primarily practice western medicine and techniques.
dr. vavra: many veterinarians will refer their patients for alternative therapies as a last resort, when no other treatments are working.
these meridians connect the internal organs to the acupuncture points.
bullmastiffinfo.org:  how does herbal treatment work?
these tcm principals include yin/yang imbalances,  hot or cold conditions, wind or damp conditions, and many others, most of which
two other books that discuss acupressure are acu-cat, a guide to feline acupressure, and the well connected dog, a guide to canine acupressure, both by amy snow and nancy zidonis.
the concept of treating the whole animal, not just the particular ailment, is the most important aspect of the treatment and this is what acupuncture and chinese herbal formulations do.
this is such a basic concept but is forgotten in many practices and also lost in human medicine.
animals with chronic   conditions (arthritis, cancer, disc problems, kidney disease, etc) will need  ongoing treatment, but the goal is to eventually space these out so we may only  see them every few weeks to months.
what is the best way to contact you for an appointment and/or consultation?
dr. vavra: acupuncture is the process of stimulating certain  points along meridians in the body to create a physiologic response that helps  treat and prevent disease.
dr. vavra: not dramatically when we are talking about  mammals.
these meridians  “connect” the internal organs to the acupuncture points.
they get more energy and owners find they  participate in daily activities more.
dr. vavra: many modalities now have certification courses.
this is why we ask many questions about the pets habits, preferences, and daily behavior, and want to know about the environment they live in.
bullmastiffinfo.org: how does herbal treatment work?
what about side effects?
bullmastiffinfo.org: bullmastiffinfo.org would like to personally thank dr. carol a. vavra for taking the time to share her thoughts and experience with our readers!
and this holds true for human acupuncturists treating animals.
dr. vavra: i prefer to cal it complementary medicine because  these modalities are used in conjunction with conventional medicine.
or should the herbals that are used be specifically made for animals?
below dr. vavra gives us a better understanding of holistic care for our beloved companions.
bullmastiffinfo.org: are these herbs easily accessible over the counter?
bullmastiffinfo.org: would the client have to continue the same treatment for the duration of their life to continue good health or would they be cured of the actual ailment after a set number of treatments?
bullmastiffinfo.org: are there any books and/or articles that you recommend for pet owners that would like to become more acquainted with holistic practices for their pets?
do not have a western medicine definition.
they  include acupuncture, homeopathy, chiropractic therapies, herbal therapy (both  western and eastern), supplements, nutrition, orthomolecular therapy, magnetic  therapy and others.
dr. vavra: most of these therapies work to bring the body back  into balance so results can take time.
we can then look at all the treatment options, and many times a combination of western and chinese medicine is the best way to go.
dogs, cats, and horses have the same meridians humans do.
i also find geriatric animals respond well to basic geriatric support.
has the cancer  returned?
reputable companies should only sell herbals to professionals who  have a knowledge of herbals and how to prescribe them.
she began learning holistic veterinary care after  becoming increasingly frustrated at seeing the same problems over and over  again in our pets such as arthritis, back (disc) abnormalities, and  others.
bullmastiffinfo.org: what is acupuncture?
this discusses traditional chinese medicine theory and how it is applied using acupressure, herbals, and food.
for those clinics that have not yet opened their doors to holistic care, what advice do you have for them to become more comfortable with this eastern concept?
dr. vavra: the first and most important point is that it must be a merge of all modalities.
they should trust their veterinarian to give them the most recent information or be able to refer them to someone who can.
under what circumstances?