neem has an antibacterial  property that helps in curbing any kind of infections that occurs in the body.
posted by stas@ayurvedic herbs | september 12, 2010, 6:09 amposted by stas@ayurvedic herbs | september 12, 2010, 6:09 am ayurvedic remedies offer many possibilities for natural healing.
just because it’s ‘natural’ doesn’t mean it can’t harm you.
they observed all the actions of a particular herb or a plant after applying it to various diseases.
this will not only helps in relieving the constipation but will also improve your digestion.
for more information visit us at ihsanshanti dot com posted by ihsan shanti | july 15, 2010, 9:46 pm reply to this  comment thanks for the tips.
hypericum & depression is a report of recent medical research  with tremendous implications for the treatment of depression.
ashwagandha is considered as the greatest herb that is very helpful in treating pains and inflammation in any part of the body.
posted by maureen@paul | march 26, 2009, 9:06 am reply to this  comment great read.
after all, mankind evolved eating  fruits and vegetables – don’t you think that after 200,000 years of  eating them, our digestive systems would know what to do with them?
the fda needs to do a better job, far too many drugs are really dangerous.
posted by ron@causes of heart disease | august 4, 2011, 5:14 amposted by ron@causes of heart disease | august 4, 2011, 5:14 am from the ancient time indian people are getting the benefits of ayurveda and now it is a proven fact.
it can be applied locally on the skin as well as can be used orally.
do your homework and consult your  doctor first.
posted by worli@ health articles | november 19, 2011, 5:02 pmposted by worli@ health articles | november 19, 2011, 5:02 pm hi, thank you for sharing this article on alternative remedies for common ailments.
posted by ron@causes of heart disease | august 4, 2011, 5:14 am reply to this comment
just a slight cautionary note to anyone thinking about using herbal remedies; be sure to do your research before you take any herb, especially if you are taking any prescription medications.
posted by margaret @ cloth diapers | december 6, 2010, 11:20 am reply to this comment i had a few skin problems a few months back
many drug companies actually spend much more  on marketing than they do on actually researching and developing the drugs they  sell.
· skin problems – whenever there is a talk of skin related problems,neem is the one herb that is most commonly used.
· ear problems – ayurveda has certain oils and juices that are  very effective in curbing ear aches and their various other troubles.
posted by paige@certified medical assistant | november 14, 2011,  6:06 pm reply to this comment interesting.
these three books possess the complete ayurvedic remedies along with the  complete references of diseases and their various signs and symptoms.
posted by joseph | may 11, 2011, 1:59 pmposted by joseph | may 11, 2011, 1:59 pm
sarso oil  is also useful in treating ear problems about the author: read more about ayurveda and ayurvedic treatments at  http://www.ayurvediccure.com – world’s finest portal on ayurveda  and herbal remedies the complete book of ayurvedic home remedies image source:  http://flickr.com/photos/yeoh_ts/825577676/ pilates method and the alexander technique qi gong for  amazing energy and vitality categories alternative medicine , ayurvedic medicine , herbal remedies , natural remedies tags ayurveda, ayurvedic, ayurvedic constipation, ayurvedic indigestion, ayurvedic  medicine, ayurvedic remedies discussion 35 responses to “ayurvedic remedies for common health problems” drug giant roche has been ordered to pay a 7 million verdict to man who had  to have his colon removed after taking the popular acne medication accutane.
after all, mankind evolved eating fruits and vegetables – don’t you think that after 200,000 years of eating them, our digestive systems would know what to do with them?
posted by un55d8000 | april 27, 2011, 12:30 amposted by un55d8000 | april 27, 2011, 12:30 am it’s good to know the great benefits ayurvedic remedies bring to our well-being.
by using ayurvedic and herbal medicines you ensure physical and mental  health without side effects.
posted by colloidal silver | july 24, 2010, 9:59 am reply to  this comment hi to all ,according to me natural remedies is a slow process but it will  not give any other infection but on the same non-natural may harm our body in  some cases posted by lorel@athens eskort agency | july 29, 2010, 11:55 pm reply to this comment there are several natural ways to treat joint pain without using  prescription and non-prescription medications that cause side effects.
posted by neil butterfield | february 17, 2011, 10:31 pm reply  to this comment thanks for post!
several recent studies recommend the natural ingredients in one advanced joint pain formula as one of the natural ways to treat joint pain.
thanks for reminding us again for it’s  benefits.
in hypericum & depression, two noted psychiatrists report on research that could change the way depression is treated in america explaining what depression is, how to know if one is depressed, the medical effects of hypericum on depression, and where to find research-grade hypericum (noting that not all hypericum supplements are alike).
to get your ex back | december 17, 2010, 3:01 amposted by kevin@how to get your ex back | december 17, 2010, 3:01 am a really good option for almost all the diseases.
the natural ingredients of herbs help bring “arogya” to human body and mind.
* ayurvedic treatment is non-invasive and non-toxic, so it can be used safely as an alternative therapy or alongside conventional therapies.
i’m going to let her know about it, thanks.
take  castor oil one to two table spoons at night with warm water or milk.
posted by natural healing | october 22, 2010, 2:26 pm reply to  this comment hi,thanks for provide good information.
always try to stick with natural cures if you can,  better for the body, cause well, they’re natural!
thanks so much for the book recommendations, always looking for more health related books for a healthier lifestyle.
ayurvedic remedies for common health problems by natural health  ⋅ january 18, 2010 ⋅ post a comment by dr john anne ayurvedic remedies are the time-tested procedures that were devised after  observing their effect on the body.
we can say that ayurveda, like other so-called  “alternative medicine” can help to combat any disease.
ashwagandha is considered as the greatest herb that is very helpful  in treating pains and inflammation in any part of the body.
ayurvedic remedies are really the way to go especially for minor needs that are not life threatening.
posted by robin terranella | february 29, 2012, 6:27 pmposted by robin terranella | february 29, 2012, 6:27 pm name * e-mail * website comment
posted by maureen@paul | march 26, 2009, 9:06 amposted by maureen@paul | march 26, 2009, 9:06 am great read.
(“arogya” means free from diseases).
shallaki is another herb which is very similar to guggul is also widely used to suppress pain and relive from inflammation.
hypericum is derived from st. john’s wort (wort means “plant”) and has been used for thousands of years as a medicine.
it is known as curcuma longa in technical terms is very effective in curing all skin problems.
http://www.de-clutter.org/ posted by de-clutter | october 10, 2011, 8:40 am reply to this  comment herbal medicine remains largely an unproven, inexact science.
it is indian traditional  medicine, which began more than 5,000 years ago.
i will let you know how it goes.
various learned men in ancient india  made certain remedies and processes that were very effective in providing cure  to a variety of diseases.
posted by massage chair reviews | october 13, 2011, 10:30 pm reply to this comment i work with herbs and use a lot of herbal remedies myself, however i  haven’t really looked into the ayurvedic side of it.
login or signup to meet new friends, find out what's going on, and connect with others on the site.
posted by jack@how to not snore | november 15, 2011, 12:50 amposted by jack@how to not snore | november 15, 2011, 12:50 am ayurveda is about establishing balance in the human body through physical, mental, and spiritual wellbeing, which can be attained by maintaining a healthy lifestyle, diet, body cleansing, and exercise.
would the above herbs can cure my problems?
mint or pudina paste is very effective in treating all  kinds of indigestion.
· arthritis – ayurveda has great herbals remedies in treating  arthritis.
we can say that ayurveda, like other so-called “alternative medicine” can help to combat any disease.
zach posted by zach@zachshealthblog | june 18, 2010, 10:31 amposted by zach@zachshealthblog | june 18, 2010, 10:31 am
posted by angie | february 8, 2010, 3:18 pm reply to this  comment natural remedies can be very beneficial.
hypericum & depression is  enhanced with summaries of selected medical studies on the effect of hypericum  upon a state of depression.
just because it’s ‘natural’  doesn’t mean it can’t harm you.
posted by robin terranella | february 29, 2012, 6:27 pm reply  to this comment
hence a full references and data was generated and then documented in various ancient texts.
· ear problems – ayurveda has certain oils and juices that are very effective in curbing ear aches and their various other troubles.
do your homework and consult your doctor first.
one should have allopathy medicine only when it is very necessary.
they  observed all the actions of a particular herb or a plant after applying it to  various diseases.
ayu means life and veda means knowledge or science.
http://www.de-clutter.org/ posted by de-clutter | october 10, 2011, 8:40 amposted by de-clutter | october 10, 2011, 8:40 am herbal medicine remains largely an unproven, inexact science.
not  only do drug companies have politicians in their pocket, but they also invest  huge sums of money on advertising.
posted by celine adams | august 2, 2010, 11:33 amposted by celine adams | august 2, 2010, 11:33 am thanks for nice post.
for more information click here posted by ihsan shanti | july 15, 2010, 1:11 amposted by ihsan shanti | july 15, 2010, 1:11 am [...]ayurvedic remedies for common health problems”[...] hypericum & depression medical studies demonstrate that often a natural herb “hypericum perforatum” is as effective in treating depression as prescription antidepressants.
alternative based remedies have both long term and short term benefits on people’s health.
you can also take three to five grams ofharitaki powder that is also a good laxative agent.
posted by colloidal silver | june 23, 2010, 10:15 pm reply to  this comment “ayurvedic remedies for common health problems” ayurveda is a holistic healing science which comprises of two words, ayu  and veda.
hypericum is derived from st. john’s wort (wort means  “plant”) and has been used for thousands of years as a medicine.
ayurveda is an age-old health science that  has a history of 5000 years in developing.
ayurvedic remedies are really the way to go especially for  minor needs that are not life threatening.
3 to 5 grams of neem powder with cold water or milk is to be taken twice daily.
various guggul  preparations are available in the market.
in these texts there is a complete explanation of diseases along with their diagnostic methods.
keith posted by keith@mlm blog | february 22, 2011, 6:37 pm reply to  this comment i have a skin problem.
(“arogya” means free  from diseases).
twentieth  century brought us the “marvelous” invention of “fast  food” and pharmacological chemicals that relieve a little of the harm  which causes unhealthy eating (who knows what is more harmful?).
ayurveda is an age-old health science that has a history of 5000 years in developing.
posted by jack@how to not snore | november 15, 2011, 12:50 am reply to this comment ayurveda is about establishing balance in the human body through physical,  mental, and spiritual wellbeing, which can be attained by maintaining a healthy  lifestyle, diet, body cleansing, and exercise.
actually the women in my family  prefer natural remedies than pills or drugs when they have pms or during  menopause posted by doris@cirugia plastica | november 24, 2010, 8:14 am reply to this comment my mother has arthritis and has tried everything, but i don’t think  she has tried this type of treatment.
i am really into natural ways to keep the body healthy and i agree that many medicines are actually more harmful than good.
posted by tom@clarksville tn real estate | november 30, 2008, 12:06  am reply to this comment love the page, i write about natural remedies on my own  blog(http://www.natural-fix.com), going to subscribe.
posted by margaret @ cloth diapers | december 6, 2010, 11:20 amposted by margaret @ cloth diapers | december 6, 2010, 11:20 am i had a few skin problems a few months back
ayurveda is a science
i think this is really a helpful way for us to cure  and prevent ourselves and our loved ones from having illnesses and diseases.
ayurvedic remedies are a natural way to relieve symptoms without  having to rely on drugs.
eat 2-3 pieces of fresh fruit every day, and drink at least one full quart of water throughout the day as well.
one table spoon of pudina paste helps in relieving from all kind of digestive disorders and a condition of hyperacidity.
shallaki is another herb which is very similar to  guggul is also widely used to suppress pain and relive from inflammation.
always try to stick with natural cures if you can, better for the body, cause well, they’re natural!
established in 1983, we have come a long way with.
basically, it takes the natural plant matter that is used in making prescriptions and uses the plant directly.
not only do drug companies have politicians in their pocket, but they also invest huge sums of money on advertising.
it is antimicrobial agent and helps in purifying blood.
hypericum & depression is “must”  reading for anyone with an interest in alternative medicine and/or who suffers  from chronic depression.
a dose  of 3 grams of guggul is enough to get relived from pains.
posted by roger | november 20, 2010, 2:15 amposted by roger | november 20, 2010, 2:15 am ayurvedic remedies are great nor only for skin problems, but to cleanse your body from all the unhealthy food we eat.
posted by tiff @ richardsons holiday village | august 16, 2011, 7:03 amposted by tiff @ richardsons holiday village | august 16, 2011, 7:03 am it’s a simple fact: drugs are a multi-billion dollar business.
these three books possess the complete ayurvedic remedies along with the complete references of diseases and their various signs and symptoms.
ayurvedic remedies are a natural way to relieve symptoms without having to rely on drugs.
after this there is a complete treatment with single herbs and certain  herbal combinations.
cumin seeds are another herbal drug that is very effective in treating indigestion.
twentieth century brought us the “marvelous” invention of “fast food” and pharmacological chemicals that relieve a little of the harm which causes unhealthy eating (who knows what is more harmful?).
would the above  herbs can cure my problems?
posted by neil butterfield | february 17, 2011, 10:31 pmposted by neil butterfield | february 17, 2011, 10:31 pm thanks for post!
ayurveda has been used to treat acne, allergies, asthma, anxiety, arthritis,  chronic fatigue syndrome, colds, colitis, constipation, depression, diabetes,  flu, heart disease, hypertension, immune problems, inflammation, insomnia,  nervous disorders, obesity, skin problems, and ulcers.
there’s truth to that “an apple a day” saying, and this  is part of it.
that are not very risky.
among the  worst is that the twentieth century poisoned our consciousness and we have not  known what is real and what’s not.
3 to 5 grams of  powder of ashwagandha is taken twice daily with warm water.
in the western world, ayurveda is considered an alternative medicine that aims to prevent and treat health problems.
your article  definitely piqued my interest and am going to look into it further.
actually the women in my family prefer natural remedies than pills or drugs when they have pms or during menopause posted by doris@cirugia plastica | november 24, 2010, 8:14 amposted by doris@cirugia plastica | november 24, 2010, 8:14 am my mother has arthritis and has tried everything, but i don’t think she has tried this type of treatment.
i believe that the twenty-first  century will return the traditional way of life and a far more discerning look  at yourself.
this is a topic i really find interesting.
guggul is another  ayurvedic herb that’s effectively used in treating the arthritis.
the chemicals used in preparing allopathy medicines have impact on mind as well.
among the worst is that the twentieth century poisoned our consciousness and we have not known what is real and what’s not.
the stuff they sell online and on tv is a bunch of expensive  crud, imho, and you don’t need it.
3 to 5 grams of neem powder  with cold water or milk is to be taken twice daily.
here is an article that talks  about the pros and cons of natural medicines: http://blog.swintegrativemedicine.com/blog/bid/102717/natural-based-medicine-pros-and-cons  i hope this helps your readers understand the significance of natural based  remedies as opposed to drugs.
posted by roger | november 20, 2010, 2:15 am reply to this  comment ayurvedic remedies are great nor only for skin problems, but to cleanse  your body from all the unhealthy food we eat.
this article  confirms my friends wisdom.
turmeric is another herb that is widely used in skin related problems.
i have arthritis and will be  trying ashwagandha to see if it helps.
this is the second loss for roche in as many trials for accutane.
· skin problems – whenever there is a talk of skin related  problems,neem is the one herb that is most commonly used.
i think this is really a helpful way for us to cure and prevent ourselves and our loved ones from having illnesses and diseases.
anju pharma we, at anju pharmaceuticals, are engaged in the manufacture and export of high quality ayurvedic and household medicines.
some of the guggul preparations that  are used are yoga raja guggul, mahayograja guggul, kaishore guggul,  triyodashang guggul etc.
according to the original texts, the goal of ayurveda is  prevention as well as promotion of the body’s own capacity for  maintenance and balance.
after this there is a complete treatment with single herbs and certain herbal combinations.
hypericum is a herb that has been used for thousands of years as a  medicine.
the fda needs to do a  better job, far too many drugs are really dangerous.
posted by ihsan shanti | july 15, 2010, 1:09 amposted by ihsan shanti | july 15, 2010, 1:09 am benefits of ayurvedic medicines *
posted by tom@clarksville tn real estate | november 30, 2008, 12:06 amposted by tom@clarksville tn real estate | november 30, 2008, 12:06 am love the page, i write about natural remedies on my own blog(http://www.natural-fix.com), going to subscribe.
i’ve always preferred ayurvedic remedies over all.
posted by linda@slimming | january 19, 2010, 6:34 pm reply to  this comment try the all natural treatment to this problem.
it is always interesting to see the versatility  of what these plants can cure.
ayurveda as  well as other ancient therapies (both oriental and western) are exactly  traditional, and they are tested and verified over many generations.
various guggul preparations are available in the market.
neem has an antibacterial property that helps in curbing any kind of infections that occurs in the body.
posted by kate@dental implant cost | august 9, 2011, 11:57 pm reply to this comment hi, i’ve heard about ayurvedic remedies and i actually try some of them
alternative based remedies have both long term and  short term benefits on people’s health.
posted by ihsan shanti | july 15, 2010, 1:09 am reply to this  comment benefits of ayurvedic medicines *
posted by massage chair reviews | october 13, 2011, 10:30 pmposted by massage chair reviews | october 13, 2011, 10:30 pm i work with herbs and use a lot of herbal remedies myself, however i haven’t really looked into the ayurvedic side of it.
i’m going to let her know about it,  thanks.
and, less $$$ spent on a drug with a patent.
it also relives from allergies and infection.
to get your ex back | december 17, 2010, 3:01 am reply to this comment a really good option for almost all the diseases.
posted by un55d8000 | april 27, 2011, 12:30 am reply to this  comment it’s good to know the great benefits ayurvedic remedies bring to our  well-being.
in a simple,  straightforward style suitable for the interested non-specialist general  reader, hypericum & depression explains what depression is, how to know if  one is depressed, the medical effects of hypericum on depression, . .
the chemicals used in preparing allopathy medicines have impact  on mind as well.
the ayurvedic medicine is the best alternative over the normal medicines which have side effects on our health.
the ayurvedic medicine is  the best alternative over the normal medicines which have side effects on our  health.
one should have allopathy medicine only when it is very  necessary.
i think that most people are still amazed that common plants and natural remedies are right around them.
· indigestion – ayurveda has lots of remedies that deal in treating indigestion.
posted by colloidal silver | june 23, 2010, 10:15 pmposted by colloidal silver | june 23, 2010, 10:15 pm “ayurvedic remedies for common health problems” ayurveda is a holistic healing science which comprises of two words, ayu and veda.
sarso oil is also useful in treating ear problems about the author: read more about ayurveda and ayurvedic treatments at http://www.ayurvediccure.com – world’s finest portal on ayurveda and herbal remedies the complete book of ayurvedic home remedies image source: http://flickr.com/photos/yeoh_ts/825577676/ categories alternative medicine , ayurvedic medicine , herbal remedies , natural remediestags ayurveda, ayurvedic, ayurvedic constipation, ayurvedic indigestion, ayurvedic medicine, ayurvedic remedies drug giant roche has been ordered to pay a 7 million verdict to man who had to have his colon removed after taking the popular acne medication accutane.
some of the guggul preparations that are used are yoga raja guggul, mahayograja guggul, kaishore guggul, triyodashang guggul etc.
and i remember a friend giving  me something called neem to apply on the skin.
it is also known as  azadirachita indica or margosa in common language.
posted by jim@greensboro pediatric dentist | march 8, 2010, 12:56 pm reply to this comment ayurveda sounds great.
keith posted by keith@mlm blog | february 22, 2011, 6:37 pmposted by keith@mlm blog | february 22, 2011, 6:37 pm i have a skin problem.
an order handed down on february 8th
i am so sick of pumping medicines and chemicals into my body!
* ayurvedic physicians claim that their methods  can also help stress-related, metabolic, and chronic conditions.
bakuchi  tail is a wonderful remedy for treating ear aches and its problems.
posted by crohns disease | april 15, 2008, 1:16 pm reply to  this comment thanks for the list of herbs and ailments.
posted by linda@slimming | january 19, 2010, 6:34 pmposted by linda@slimming | january 19, 2010, 6:34 pm try the all natural treatment to this problem.
dealing not only with treatment of some diseases but is a complete way of life.
· indigestion – ayurveda has lots of remedies that deal in  treating indigestion.
there’s truth to that “an apple a day” saying, and this is part of it.
posted by colloidal silver | july 24, 2010, 9:59 amposted by colloidal silver | july 24, 2010, 9:59 am hi to all ,according to me natural remedies is a slow process but it will not give any other infection but on the same non-natural may harm our body in some cases posted by lorel@athens eskort agency | july 29, 2010, 11:55 pmposted by lorel@athens eskort agency | july 29, 2010, 11:55 pm there are several natural ways to treat joint pain without using prescription and non-prescription medications that cause side effects.
it can be applied locally on the  skin as well as can be used orally.
posted by crohns disease | april 15, 2008, 1:16 pmposted by crohns disease | april 15, 2008, 1:16 pm thanks for the list of herbs and ailments.
a new password will be e-mailed to you.
posted by tiff @ richardsons holiday village | august 16, 2011, 7:03  am reply to this comment it’s a simple fact: drugs are a multi-billion dollar business.
posted by paige@certified medical assistant | november 14, 2011, 6:06 pmposted by paige@certified medical assistant | november 14, 2011, 6:06 pm interesting.
established in 1983, we have come a  long way with.
posted by joseph | may 11, 2011, 1:59 pm reply to this comment
8 to 10  seeds with plain water increasing the peristaltic movement and is also very  helpful in avoiding the feeling of nausea.
posted by stas@ayurvedic herbs | september 12, 2010, 6:09 am reply to this comment ayurvedic remedies offer many possibilities for natural healing.
for more information posted by ihsan shanti | july 15, 2010, 1:11 am reply to this  comment [...]ayurvedic remedies for common health problems”[...] hypericum & depression medical studies demonstrate that often a natural herb “hypericum  perforatum” is as effective in treating depression as prescription  antidepressants.
posted by healer@eczema treatment | december 23, 2010, 6:04 am reply to this comment ayurveda is a very ancient form of medicine over 3000 years old and makes  use of only naturally occuring substances and has been curing people for many  years learn more at yogi cameron website posted by simon@ayurveda therapist | february 10, 2011, 10:47 am reply to this comment very informative thank you.
roche still faces over 400 lawsuits alleging that accutane caused crohn’s  disease.
less known side effects and  poisons from man made ingredients.
all these procedures were made from local surrounding vegetation.
in hypericum & depression, two noted psychiatrists report on research  that could change the way depression is treated in america explaining what  depression is, how to know if one is depressed, the medical effects of  hypericum on depression, and where to find research-grade hypericum (noting  that not all hypericum supplements are alike).
you can also take three to five grams ofharitaki powder that is also  a good laxative agent.
your article definitely piqued my interest and am going to look into it further.
the stuff they sell online and on tv is a bunch of expensive crud, imho, and you don’t need it.
mint or pudina paste is very effective in treating all kinds of indigestion.
it is indian traditional medicine, which began more than 5,000 years ago.
hypericum is a herb that has been used for thousands of years as a medicine.
posted by kate@dental implant cost | august 9, 2011, 11:57 pmposted by kate@dental implant cost | august 9, 2011, 11:57 pm hi, i’ve heard about ayurvedic remedies and i actually try some of them that are not very risky.
in these  texts there is a complete explanation of diseases along with their diagnostic  methods.
according to the original texts, the goal of ayurveda is prevention as well as promotion of the body’s own capacity for maintenance and balance.
eat 2-3 pieces of fresh fruit every day, and drink at least one full quart  of water throughout the day as well.
hypericum is inexpensive, available without a prescription, and free of the side effects often associated with antidepressant medications.
ayurveda as well as other ancient therapies (both oriental and western) are exactly traditional, and they are tested and verified over many generations.
less known side effects and poisons from man made ingredients.
hypericum & depression is “must” reading for anyone with an interest in alternative medicine and/or who suffers from chronic depression.
take castor oil one to two table spoons at night with warm water or milk.
just a  slight cautionary note to anyone thinking about using herbal remedies; be sure  to do your research before you take any herb, especially if you are taking any  prescription medications.
thanks for the compilation of the list.
this will  not only helps in relieving the constipation but will also improve your  digestion.
some medical people look to natural remedies when possible.
it is always interesting to see the versatility of what these plants can cure.
bakuchi tail is a wonderful remedy for treating ear aches and its problems.
thanks so much for the book recommendations, always looking for more health  related books for a healthier lifestyle.
hypericum is inexpensive, available without a prescription,  and free of the side effects often associated with antidepressant medications.
i love knowing that there are so many cures to common ailments and they are natural.
allegedly the medication caused inflammatory bowel disease, crohn’s disease.
another  remedy that is also very effective in treating constipation is castor oil.
posted by worli@ health articles | november 19, 2011, 5:02 pm reply to this comment hi, thank you for sharing this article on alternative remedies for common  ailments.
some of these texts are charka samhita,  susruta samhita and ashtaang samgraha.
i am so sick of pumping medicines and chemicals  into my body!
hence a full references and data was generated and then  documented in various ancient texts.
another remedy that is also very effective in treating constipation is castor oil.
* ayurveda has been used to treat acne, allergies, asthma, anxiety, arthritis, chronic fatigue syndrome, colds, colitis, constipation, depression, diabetes, flu, heart disease, hypertension, immune problems, inflammation, insomnia, nervous disorders, obesity, skin problems, and ulcers.
i have arthritis and will be trying ashwagandha to see if it helps.
hypericum & depression is a report of recent medical research with tremendous implications for the treatment of depression.
roche still faces over 400 lawsuits alleging that accutane caused crohn’s disease.
here is an article that talks about the pros and cons of natural medicines: http://blog.swintegrativemedicine.com/blog/bid/102717/natural-based-medicine-pros-and-cons
a dose of 3 grams of guggul is enough to get relived from pains.
i am really into natural ways to keep the body  healthy and i agree that many medicines are actually more harmful than good.
· arthritis – ayurveda has great herbals remedies in treating arthritis.
hypericum & depression is enhanced with summaries of selected medical studies on the effect of hypericum upon a state of depression.
cumin seeds are  another herbal drug that is very effective in treating indigestion.
so the literal  meaning of the word ayurveda is the science of life.
8 to 10 seeds with plain water increasing the peristaltic movement and is also very helpful in avoiding the feeling of nausea.
some of these texts are charka samhita, susruta samhita and ashtaang samgraha.
i hope this helps your readers understand the significance of natural based remedies as opposed to drugs.
informative article.
i believe that the twenty-first century will return the traditional way of life and a far more discerning look at yourself.
posted by angie | february 8, 2010, 3:18 pmposted by angie | february 8, 2010, 3:18 pm natural remedies can be very beneficial.
posted by celine adams | august 2, 2010, 11:33 am reply to this  comment thanks for nice post.
i’ve always preferred natural solutions to better health.
* ayurvedic treatment is non-invasive and  non-toxic, so it can be used safely as an alternative therapy or alongside  conventional therapies.
they are an interesting subject.
cut back on diuretics like cola, coffee, and tea, too.
and i remember a friend giving me something called neem to apply on the skin.
probably because i prefer natural cures over chemicals with side effects.
from the ancient time indian people are getting the benefits of ayurveda  and now it is a proven fact.
guggul is another ayurvedic herb that’s effectively used in treating the arthritis.
* ayurvedic physicians claim that their methods can also help stress-related, metabolic, and chronic conditions.
one table spoon of pudina paste helps in relieving from  all kind of digestive disorders and a condition of hyperacidity.
khadir is  another herb that is also very good in treating skin problems and irritation.
many drug companies actually spend much more on marketing than they do on actually researching and developing the drugs they sell.
the natural ingredients of herbs help bring  “arogya” to human body and mind.
i love knowing that there are so many cures to common  ailments and they are natural.
3 to 5 grams of powder of ashwagandha is taken twice daily with warm water.
zach posted by zach@zachshealthblog | june 18, 2010, 10:31 am reply  to this comment i think that most people are still amazed that common plants and natural  remedies are right around them.
below are certain ayurvedic remedies that are very helpful in treating a number of diseases with the remedies available around us: · constipation – for relief from constipation one can use triphala powder three to five grams daily with warm water or hot milk.
posted by jim@greensboro pediatric dentist | march 8, 2010, 12:56 pmposted by jim@greensboro pediatric dentist | march 8, 2010, 12:56 pm ayurveda sounds great.
so the literal meaning of the word ayurveda is the science of life.
by dr john anne ayurvedic remedies are the time-tested procedures that were devised after observing their effect on the body.
for more information visit us at ihsanshanti dot com posted by ihsan shanti | july 15, 2010, 9:46 pmposted by ihsan shanti | july 15, 2010, 9:46 pm thanks for the tips.
basically, it takes the natural  plant matter that is used in making prescriptions and uses the plant directly.
it is  known as curcuma longa in technical terms is very effective in curing all skin  problems.
it’s good to have other medicine alternatives.
it works well and has no added chemicals.
posted by natural healing | october 22, 2010, 2:26 pmposted by natural healing | october 22, 2010, 2:26 pm hi,thanks for provide good information.
it gets itchy when i got sweated.
posted by healer@eczema treatment | december 23, 2010, 6:04 amposted by healer@eczema treatment | december 23, 2010, 6:04 am ayurveda is a very ancient form of medicine over 3000 years old and makes use of only naturally occuring substances and has been curing people for many years learn more at yogi cameron website posted by simon@ayurveda therapist | february 10, 2011, 10:47 amposted by simon@ayurveda therapist | february 10, 2011, 10:47 am very informative thank you.
ayurveda is a science dealing not only with treatment of some diseases but is a complete way of life.
thanks for reminding us again for it’s benefits.
in a simple, straightforward style suitable for the interested non-specialist general reader, hypericum & depression explains what depression is, how to know if one is depressed, the medical effects of hypericum on depression, . .
various learned men in ancient india made certain remedies and processes that were very effective in providing cure to a variety of diseases.
by using ayurvedic and herbal medicines you ensure physical and mental health without side effects.
allegedly the medication caused inflammatory bowel disease, crohn’s  disease.
judge carol hugbee upheld the multi- million dollar verdict awarded in october.
they are  an interesting subject.
judge carol hugbee upheld the  multi- million dollar verdict awarded in october.
anju pharma  we, at anju pharmaceuticals, are engaged in the manufacture and export of high quality  ayurvedic and household medicines.
below are certain ayurvedic remedies that are very helpful in treating a  number of diseases with the remedies available around us: · constipation – for relief from constipation one can use  triphala powder three to five grams daily with warm water or hot milk.
khadir is another herb that is also very good in treating skin problems and irritation.
cut back on diuretics like cola, coffee,  and tea, too.
in the western world, ayurveda  is considered an alternative medicine that aims to prevent and treat health  problems.
it is also known as azadirachita indica or margosa in common language.
several  recent studies recommend the natural ingredients in one advanced joint pain  formula as one of the natural ways to treat joint pain.
this article confirms my friends wisdom.