captain paul watson i also received an e-mail from a man named eugene ahn in response to one of  my quotes in the new york times.
for defending seals, we are anti-canadian, anti-norwegian, anti-russian, and anti-namibian.
would you prefer that we chinese give up our  culture and identity and conform to western diet, medicine, and language?
has it come to this that defenders of endangered species and  protectors of oceanic ecosystems are to be called racist for practicing,  promoting, and enforcing conservation?
on the contrary, my one child is half chinese and i have quite a few chinese in-laws, all of whom are opposed to shark fin soup, by the way.
sea shepherd france 22 rue boulard, 75014 paris
there is no scientific validity to the claims that shark fin is a health benefit.
it's not chinese medicine that brought the world heroin or vicodin or oxycontin  or vioxxx, all of which are infinitely worse for people than a shark's  fin.
ninety percent of shark fins come from sharks where the body has been wastefully discarded.
the slaughter of sharks is a crime against nature and it is a crime under international and national laws.
a hundred million sentient  creatures a year massacred for non-nutritive purposes, slaughtered for vanity,  and justified by culture.
have the japanese been eating whale burgers for hundreds of years?
it is a fact that over 100 million sharks are being slaughtered each year and a great majority of this slaughter is to provide shark fins for tasteless, non-nutritive, expensive, superstitious soup meant to impress family and friends as a status symbol.
have they even been eating burgers for hundreds of years?
the shark is an essential species in maintaining the health of oceanic  ecosystems, and especially, of ocean reef communities.
the campaign against shark finning has nothing to do with race and culture  and everything to do with the conservation of important species that fulfill  valuable niches within oceanic ecological systems.
my cultural ignorance may be bewildering, but your ecological ignorance  is despicable and as far as i am concerned ecology trumps culture any day.
and even if there were valid claims, the destruction of the world's sharks is not worth the benefits.
talk about unoriginal name calling.
there is not a shred of scientific evidence to demonstrate any medicinal  benefits of shark fins or shark cartilage.
there are no western whalers hunting whales for ambergris which comes only from  the sperm whale and the only nation hunting sperm whales is japan.
this represents between 18,000 and 22,000 sharks.
we probably have a campaign to offend anyone and everyone at some  time.
i find the chinese to be no better or no worse than every other mis-guided, anthropocentric, nature-abusing hominids anywhere.
every year, i haul hundreds of miles of illegally-set long lines from the oceans and intercept poachers with cargos of shark fins.
now it appears it is  racist to defend sharks.
we oppose whaling, sealing, and illegal fishing by any  people regardless of race, culture, or religious beliefs.
it's not chinese medicine that brought the world heroin or vicodin or oxycontin or vioxxx, all of which are infinitely worse for people than a shark's fin.
i sent the following reply to hsing lee: to hsing lee, i don't fall for the racist guilt crap.
the thrill of seeing them in the wild, of swimming with them, is a far more stimulating and exciting experience than slurping down their boiled fins in a broth at some wedding banquet.
you fight off sickness faster when you drink it.
from the point of view of a shark, the  violation is extremist and violent, and the perpetrators (those who slaughter  and consume the shark) have displayed an arrogant insensitivity to their  welfare and survival both as individual sentient creatures and as species.
you are using race to cover up your support for a product which is causing incredible ecological damage to oceanic eco-systems.
it was china  that actually introduced opium to the west and heroin is an extract of opium.
captain paul watson i also received an e-mail from a man named eugene ahn in response to one of my quotes in the new york times.
the chinese may very well have eaten shark fin for centuries, but there are now more chinese people than there are sharks in the sea and we are killing them at a rate of a hundred million a year.
let me see, for defending whales, we are anti-japanese, anti-norwegian,  anti-icelandic, and anti-native american.
get rss for this page now!
we oppose the canadian seal hunt
you fight off sickness faster when you drink  it.
is my respect for and concern for the survival of sharks worthy of less  respect than a person who desires to harm them?
it's as traditional a  dish as steak and potatoes.
so, i guess it is not  surprising to now be called a racist for defending sharks.
and unlike westerners and their whale killing for ambergris, we  chinese actually put the rest of the shark on people's dinner tables.
i've been called a racist for defending whales, seals, fish, elephants, and  trees, and for speaking out about human over-population.
i have swam with sharks, with hammerheads, silkys, galapagos, whitetip, blacktip, nurse, blue, thresher, whale, basking, dogfish, giant mantas, tigers, makos, and great whites.
you see, when you work without pay because you feel that the entire future of the planet is at stake, this is viewed as a luxury.
on the contrary,  my one child is half chinese and i have quite a few chinese in-laws, all of  whom are opposed to shark fin soup, by the way.
let me see, for defending whales, we are anti-japanese, anti-norwegian, anti-icelandic, and anti-native american.
my answer to eugene was: my reference to whale burgers marries the idea of a western company like disney incorporating local cultural for profit.
the tone of this entire article [referring to the article in the herald tribune and the new york times] is ignorant, racist, and just more china and chinese bashing by a bunch of fucking nazi crackers who think only western ways are good or proper and everyone else is immoral.
the criticism that opposition to the consumption of sharks is western  imperialism and ethnocentric is ridiculous.
your cultural ignorance is bewildering.
this is his protest: you have some western prejudice in play here on your part.
next  time, please make sense.
this is the lamest and laziest attempt at supporting the cause against  shark hunting i've ever heard.
well, it did not take long.
rejecting the cultural justification for slaughter commentary by paul watson sea shepherd conservation society
hsing lee makes quite a few factual errors in his protest.
it is your  remarks which are ignorant and racist.
it was china that actually introduced opium to the west and heroin is an extract of opium.
from the point of view of a shark, the violation is extremist and violent, and the perpetrators (those who slaughter and consume the shark) have displayed an arrogant insensitivity to their welfare and survival both as individual sentient creatures and as species.
shark fin is not  as traditional a dish in china as steak and potatoes is for westerners for the  simple reason that the cost of between $100 and $400 per bowl makes it a  restricted dish available only to the wealthy.
anyways, back to being a racist for saving sharks.
last year, i found 100 plus silky  sharks entangled and dead in a net that was caught on the rocks a hundred feet  down, off the world heritage site of malpelo island, colombia.
have we  descended so low that we are now using culture to defend the extermination of  species?
in doing so, you also expose your own racism by labeling any person who is  opposed to the massive slaughter of sharks as a nazi.
should we accept the diminishment of the health of the oceans for a bowl of  soup and justify it because it is a "cultural" dish?
the japanese, in fact, say they have been eating whale meat for hundreds of  years.
does that mean disneyland in japan is now  going to be having whale burgers?" asked paul watson, the founder and  president of the sea shepherd conservation society, in friday harbor, wash.
my cultural ignorance may be bewildering, but your ecological ignorance is despicable and as far as i am concerned ecology trumps culture any day.
a hundred million sentient creatures a year massacred for non-nutritive purposes, slaughtered for vanity, and justified by culture.
the tone of this entire article [referring to the article in the herald  tribune and the new york times] is ignorant, racist, and just more china and  chinese bashing by a bunch of fucking nazi crackers who think only western ways  are good or proper and everyone else is immoral.
the shark is an essential species in maintaining the health of oceanic ecosystems, and especially, of ocean reef communities.
last year, i found 100 plus silky sharks entangled and dead in a net that was caught on the rocks a hundred feet down, off the world heritage site of malpelo island, colombia.
as far as i am concerned, there is only one race and that is the human  race, and ecologically speaking the entire race is predominantly ignorant,  destructive, and suicidal.
i guess that's why we are opposing disneyland.
but the offense works both ways.
just last week, a san diego court found a hong kong company guilty of possessing nearly 70,000 pounds of shark fins without utilizing the remaining 96% of the bodies.
lee apparently believes that it is part of the traditional chinese culture for chinese couples to have disney character fantasy weddings where traditional shark fin soup is served.
to support our conservation work, please visit ourdonation page.
you are hiding behind race because you do not have the facts to back up your ridiculous belief that shark fin soup is a benefit to health.
as far as i am concerned, there is only one race and that is the human race, and ecologically speaking the entire race is predominantly ignorant, destructive, and suicidal.
we are asking people to be ecologically responsible and sensitive to the fact that shark species have been diminished in all species from 60% up to 95%.
we even use the highly elastic bone and tendon.
i find it amazing that saving sharks is viewed by some as "cultural imperialism" yet disney character fantasy marriages, and the entire disney americanization of local culture is embraced.
we  even use the highly elastic bone and tendon.
does that mean disneyland in japan is now going to be having whale burgers?" asked paul watson, the founder and president of the sea shepherd conservation society, in friday harbor, wash.
we are asking people to be ecologically responsible and  sensitive to the fact that shark species have been diminished in all species  from 60% up to 95%.
i have interviewed reputable chinese  medical practioneers who have told me that there is no validity to these claims.
your accusation that westerners are killing whales for ambergris is way out of date.
paul watson there may be many who disagree with me but the rights of a species to survive on this planet take absolute precedence over the "rights" of a cultural practice or tradition by groups of humans.
we are all on the same  spaceship, hsing.
now it appears it is racist to defend sharks.
oh yes, and anti-working class.
i was sent a response from a man named hsing lee who believes that the entire campaign to stop people from eating shark fin soup is motivated by anti-chinese passions.
and i can testify first hand to the medicinal qualities of shark's  fin soup.
it's getting to the point that being a  conservationist automatically makes a person a racist.
in other  words, environmental activists have the luxury of sleeping in trees and not  owning a home, a car, or recreational vehicles.
the fact is that  there are many chinese who are speaking out against shark finning.
i find it amazing that saving  sharks is viewed by some as "cultural imperialism" yet disney  character fantasy marriages, and the entire disney americanization of local  culture is embraced.
i find  the chinese to be no better or no worse than every other mis-guided,  anthropocentric, nature-abusing hominids anywhere.
the criticism that opposition to the consumption of sharks is western imperialism and ethnocentric is ridiculous.
it appears that loggers who make four times the average income of an  environmental activist are working-class and the lower-paid activists are  viewed as wealthy.
the chinese may very well have eaten shark fin for centuries, but there are  now more chinese people than there are sharks in the sea and we are killing  them at a rate of a hundred million a year.
we have chinese volunteers working on stopping the consumption of shark fins.
can wholesale slaughter and extinction be justified by the cultural desire  to eat a bowl of soup?
is my respect for and concern for the survival of sharks worthy of less respect than a person who desires to harm them?
it really does make you stronger, more virile, and gives you a more adaptable immune system.
the medicinal properties of sharks fin soup are well known, and it's been used as food and medicine for thousands of years.
it really does make you stronger, more virile, and gives you a more  adaptable immune system.
the  thrill of seeing them in the wild, of swimming with them, is a far more  stimulating and exciting experience than slurping down their boiled fins in a  broth at some wedding banquet.
in doing so, you also expose your own racism by labeling any person who is opposed to the massive slaughter of sharks as a nazi.
what right does hong kong have to plunder the world's oceans for the benefit of so-called chinese culture?
it is not  true that the chinese use all parts of the shark.
it is a fact that over 100 million sharks are being slaughtered each year and a  great majority of this slaughter is to provide shark fins for tasteless,  non-nutritive, expensive, superstitious soup meant to impress family and  friends as a status symbol.
your accusation that westerners  are killing whales for ambergris is way out of date.
paul watson there may be many who disagree with me but the rights of a species to  survive on this planet take absolute precedence over the "rights" of  a cultural practice or tradition by groups of humans.
have we descended so low that we are now using culture to defend the extermination of species?
i have always found it despicable for people to use their race, their sex,  or their culture to cover up crimes.
sign up via my sea shepherd mardi, 21 juin 2005 01:00
i have interviewed reputable chinese medical practioneers who have told me that there is no validity to these claims.
talk about unoriginal  name calling.
the chinese tradition of binding the feet of women has been abandoned  because the rights of women take precedence over the tradition of foot-binding.
what is even more amazing is that some people consider it a form of "western cultural imperialism" to criticize disneyland in hong kong.
sea shepherd  conservation society is 100% colour blind when it comes to these issues and  criticism to the contrary is based on selective discrimination of our  campaigns.
you see, when you work without pay because you feel that the  entire future of the planet is at stake, this is viewed as a luxury.
my opposition to shark finning  has nothing to do with any prejudice towards chinese culture.
to support our conservation work,  please visit ourdonation page.
what many people do not see is that our violent invasion of the oceans is a form of imperialism.
sign up via my sea shepherd commentary by paul watson sea shepherd conservation society
basking sharks, tiger sharks, white sharks, and whale  sharks have been especially hit.
and even if there were valid claims, the destruction of the world's  sharks is not worth the benefits.
can wholesale slaughter and extinction be justified by the cultural desire to eat a bowl of soup?
it is hominid imperialism and the culture of the sharks is being torn apart as these incredible animals are massacred for vanity purposes.
we oppose the canadian seal hunt and i am a canadian.
have the japanese been eating whale  burgers for hundreds of years?
i have swam with sharks, with hammerheads, silkys, galapagos, whitetip,  blacktip, nurse, blue, thresher, whale, basking, dogfish, giant mantas, tigers,  makos, and great whites.
for defending seals, we are  anti-canadian, anti-norwegian, anti-russian, and anti-namibian.
we have chinese celebrities like michele yeoh and jackie chan who have spoken out against it.
it's as traditional a dish as steak and potatoes.
next time, please make sense.
it's a holocaust for sharks including those killed for the mouse-shirted eco-fascists at disneyland hong kong, but lee is blind to the plight of the sharks, and most likely, he is as apathetic about the health of the oceans as well.
oh yes, and anti-working  class.
sea shepherd france 22 rue boulard, 75014 paris all contents  copyright ©2012 sea shepherd conservation society hosting and other  web services donated byestreet accueil      |    déclaration de  confidentialité     |      copyright     |     contact
for defending  trees, we are anti-hispanic and anti native american,
for defending trees, we are anti-hispanic and anti native american,
the answer is they have no right at all.
never mind that disneyland has now become a mousewich for sharks and that a hundred million of them are being cruelly slaughtered to provide trinkets, and expensive, tasteless, status symbol bowls of soup.
shark fin is not as traditional a dish in china as steak and potatoes is for westerners for the simple reason that the cost of between $100 and $400 per bowl makes it a restricted dish available only to the wealthy.
you are using race to cover up your support for a product which is  causing incredible ecological damage to oceanic eco-systems.
it's a holocaust for sharks including those killed for the mouse-shirted  eco-fascists at disneyland hong kong, but lee is blind to the plight of the  sharks, and most likely, he is as apathetic about the health of the oceans as  well.
the campaign against shark finning has nothing to do with race and culture and everything to do with the conservation of important species that fulfill valuable niches within oceanic ecological systems.
anthony marr, is a vancouver chinese activist, originally from china and a dedicated activist against shark finning.
i was sent a response from a man named hsing lee who believes that the  entire campaign to stop people from eating shark fin soup is motivated by  anti-chinese passions.
the medicinal properties of sharks fin soup are well known, and it's been  used as food and medicine for thousands of years.
you have the audacity to say there is no wastage when it is a fact that only 4% of a shark's body is utilized by the shark fin industry and the rest is thrown away.
the fact is that there are many chinese who are speaking out against shark finning.
what many people do not see is that our violent invasion of the oceans is a  form of imperialism.
you have the  audacity to say there is no wastage when it is a fact that only 4% of a shark's  body is utilized by the shark fin industry and the rest is thrown away.
it is your remarks which are ignorant and racist.
the fact is that sharks are being seriously diminished and a major reason for it is the asian demand for shark fin soup.
the japanese, in fact, say they have been eating whale meat for hundreds of years.
there is no wastage unless the shark is one of a handful of breeds that can be toxic.
whales have not been  killed for ambergris for over a century, and the only commercial whale killers  in the world today are the japanese, the norwegians, and the icelanders, and we  oppose them all regardless of their race or culture.
it's getting to the point that being a conservationist automatically makes a person a racist.
in other words, environmental activists have the luxury of sleeping in trees and not owning a home, a car, or recreational vehicles.
there are no western whalers hunting whales for ambergris which comes only from the sperm whale and the only nation hunting sperm whales is japan.
so, i guess it is not surprising to now be called a racist for defending sharks.
should we accept the diminishment of the health of the oceans for a bowl of soup and justify it because it is a "cultural" dish?
there is not a shred of scientific evidence to demonstrate any medicinal benefits of shark fins or shark cartilage.
the chinese tradition of binding the feet of women has been abandoned because the rights of women take precedence over the tradition of foot-binding.
the slaughter of sharks is a crime against  nature and it is a crime under international and national laws.
eugene wrote: "they say it's cultural.
it is not true that the chinese use all parts of the shark.
it is hominid imperialism and the culture of the sharks is  being torn apart as these incredible animals are massacred for vanity purposes.
and the rights of the sharks to survive and to not be subjected to the  cruelty of finning must take precedence over the tradition of eating shark fin  soup.
there is no wastage unless  the shark is one of a handful of breeds that can be toxic.
whales have not been killed for ambergris for over a century, and the only commercial whale killers in the world today are the japanese, the norwegians, and the icelanders, and we oppose them all regardless of their race or culture.
we have chinese volunteers working on stopping the consumption of  shark fins.
sea shepherd welcomes your support.
would you prefer that we chinese give up our culture and identity and conform to western diet, medicine, and language?
what is even more amazing is that some people consider  it a form of "western cultural imperialism" to criticize disneyland  in hong kong.
every year, i haul hundreds of miles of illegally-set long lines from the  oceans and intercept poachers with cargos of shark fins.
ninety percent of shark fins  come from sharks where the body has been wastefully discarded.
we probably have a campaign to offend anyone and everyone at some time.
have they even been eating burgers for  hundreds of years?
has it come to this that defenders of endangered species and protectors of oceanic ecosystems are to be called racist for practicing, promoting, and enforcing conservation?
we have  chinese celebrities like michele yeoh and jackie chan who have spoken out  against it.
and unlike westerners and their whale killing for ambergris, we chinese actually put the rest of the shark on people's dinner tables.
it appears that loggers who make four times the average income of an environmental activist are working-class and the lower-paid activists are viewed as wealthy.
i have always found it despicable for people to use their race, their sex, or their culture to cover up crimes.
and i can testify first hand to the medicinal qualities of shark's fin soup.
there is no  scientific validity to the claims that shark fin is a health benefit.
this is the lamest and laziest attempt at supporting the cause against shark hunting i've ever heard.
my opposition to shark finning has nothing to do with any prejudice towards chinese culture.
lee apparently believes that  it is part of the traditional chinese culture for chinese couples to have  disney character fantasy weddings where traditional shark fin soup is served.
basking sharks, tiger sharks, white sharks, and whale sharks have been especially hit.
no one is asking the chinese to give  up their culture.
anthony marr, is a vancouver chinese activist, originally from china and a  dedicated activist against shark finning.
no one is asking the chinese to give up their culture.
you are hiding  behind race because you do not have the facts to back up your ridiculous belief  that shark fin soup is a benefit to health.
we are all on the same spaceship, hsing.
we oppose whaling, sealing, and illegal fishing by any people regardless of race, culture, or religious beliefs.
and the rights of the sharks to survive and to not be subjected to the cruelty of finning must take precedence over the tradition of eating shark fin soup.
sea shepherd conservation society is 100% colour blind when it comes to these issues and criticism to the contrary is based on selective discrimination of our campaigns.
what right do the hong kong shark fin merchants have to rob colombia of its natural treasures?
i found them to be creatures of grace and beauty.
the fact is that sharks are being seriously diminished and a major reason  for it is the asian demand for shark fin soup.
i've been called a racist for defending whales, seals, fish, elephants, and trees, and for speaking out about human over-population.
what right do  the hong kong shark fin merchants have to rob colombia of its natural treasures?
my answer to eugene was: my reference to whale burgers marries the idea of a western company like  disney incorporating local cultural for profit.
never mind that disneyland has now become a mousewich for sharks and that a  hundred million of them are being cruelly slaughtered to provide trinkets, and  expensive, tasteless, status symbol bowls of soup.
just last week, a san diego court found a hong kong company guilty of  possessing nearly 70,000 pounds of shark fins without utilizing the remaining  96% of the bodies.
what right  does hong kong have to plunder the world's oceans for the benefit of so-called  chinese culture?