thank you for looking at the whole picture and identifying the problem rather than treating symptoms.
i am deeply sorry you have not had the chance  to experience that.
rakel is now  working on just such an initiative to create patient-centered units —  being recognized nationally in primary care as “medical homes”  — that are composed of teams of treatment professionals.
why should people touch each other or peacefully  meditate to keep from becoming too stressed when they could just take drugs to  make them feel better?
“[practitioners] get good at seeing people quickly by just treating  symptoms,” rakel says.
as americans, we can no longer afford to not  investigate alternative, complementary, or integrative medicine.
they might be told to try acupuncture for arthritis pain.
if we promote the kind of thinking advocated in this article, people will continue to believe that acupuncture or other false therapies can be used in place of conventional medicine (note one of the comments above for a good example of this).
now sixty-five, she has had multiple sclerosis, a disease that attacks the central nervous system, for thirty-five years.
but he also knows there are things he can do to make their lives  easier.”
years prior to becoming a nurse i read  and did research on a lot of diseases and how people have used alternative  treatments to overcome their ailment.
i am all for whatever methods can provide relief for those who are suffering, regardless how “scientific” the approach.
the fact remains, whether people “believe in it” or not, that more people have been treated with acupuncture over 5000 years than with any other form of medicine.
moreover, by linking such a program to a normally well-respected institution, you give credence to the claim that these treatments are a valid alternative to so-called conventional medicine.
but, according to theintegrated health care policy  consortium, a coalition of conventional, alternative, and complementary health  professionals, there are some positive signs.
medicine is a science.
its practitioners are schooled in ways to hold on to their hearts and souls even as they master the intricacies of anatomy, physiology, biology, and psychology.
i am glad to call you my colleague.
“this is a good example of how a low-cost  intervention can result in dramatic effects on human health,” rakel says.
he spent those fellowship years learning how integrative medicine rests on four pillars of health promotion: social, psychological, physical, and environmental.
all with our own  bodies.
instead of receiving treatments that could save their lives they may  just die.
torn by what he saw as two excellent  options, he turned to guided imagery.
“this is not belief without substance,” says frey.
it shows how insightful and forward thinking the uw continues to be.
and i don’t need to go into detail about what everybody already knows: most pharmaceutical drugs are actually worse than placebos.
i was shocked and a bit disappointed to see this on the front page.
when integrative medicine is hot, the universe  responds with initiatives such as an office within the national institutes of  health.
david rakel started the integrative medicine research park clinic, which  offers services such as meditation classes for stress reduction.
the cochrane library, available remotely to people affiliated with  the uw, is a good place to start.
an ounce of prevention contemporary american medicine focuses on diagnosis and treatment of  existing disease.
she  has written for u.s. news & world report and the la times and has published  online for msnbc.com and the boston globe.
to those of you bashing alternative medicine, please educate yourself more  on it first.
we are  far from understanding all of the intricacies of the human body and its healing  processes.
i recently approaced the ceo of this organization to see if he would be interested in starting an integrated medicine progam here.
the hiccups went away without sedation.
we don’t diagnose cancer until it’s large enough for surgery, chemo or radiation.
i  honestly cannot understand how a serious institution like the uw can offer  treatments that lack any scientific basis.
check it out athttp://ebling.library.wisc.edu/ .—
while a physician may lead the medical team, the workload is shared among various professionals, and the patient ends up getting more time devoted to health education, disease prevention, and chronic disease control.
“they’re often indicated and beneficial.”
the idea is to be as resourceful as possible to offer a comprehensive program for patients.
rakel is now working on just such an initiative to create patient-centered units — being recognized nationally in primary care as “medical homes” — that are composed of teams of treatment professionals.
the label alternative medicine has morphed into  integrative medicine, via the terms “complementary” and  “holistic.”
i’m in favor of increased access to evidence-based information about these therapies, because it will let patients make informed decisions.
i’m only on 6 meds now, after recently stopping 3 more of them.
how can this not be the better option for patients?
my desire to get into health care was prompted by my interest in alternative medicine.
integrative medicine is  very important, vital to the future of health care in the us.
and knowing how that must sound, rakel  hurriedly assures with a laugh: “no hallucinogens.
i am glad to see uw health get an integrated doctor like you.
following his fellowship, rakel weighed teaching offers in colorado and wisconsin.
this claim should not be compared to claims that therapies like acupuncture and massage help “remove barriers” that “may be blocking the body’s ability to heal”.
conventional medicine is part of integrated medicine.
moreover, by linking such a program to a normally well-respected  institution, you give credence to the claim that these treatments are a valid  alternative to so-called conventional medicine.
all with our own bodies.
rakel knows that not everyone will buy the whole package, which could include flying with an imaginary golden eagle to help nail down a difficult decision.
but by any other name, it means health care as opposed to disease care, an  emphasis on wellness even as it deals with illness.
“this is a good example of how a low-cost intervention can result in dramatic effects on human health,” rakel says.
think about that the next time you are considering going under the knife!
in january 2010, thenew england journal of medicine  found compelling evidence that reducing salt intake would save lives and money.
keep up the great work, uw!
but he figured acupuncture would do no harm.
and it is based on the same rigorous standards of evidence as any branch of medicine.
many meds were new with a lot of side effects, some maybe long term.
one visit with dr. rakel was all it  took.
the human brain is prone to all kinds of irrational  processes, and the best way to ensure we are not wrongly influenced by them is  to subject our theories to the scientific process.
understanding that there are not a lot of jobs in this field i turned to traditional medicine.
i followed his advice and though i will never be totally pain free, i am now off pain meds that i took for over five years.
“one oncologist said he  didn’t believe in integrative medicine.
we spoke for a while and he made some suggestions in changing the patterns he thought were causing my back pain.
the study found that only 2 to 4 percent of americans engage in all of them.
the integrative approach could be so much more cost-effective, but would  not rake in the billions of dollars to insurance stockholders who often spend  less than 20% of their premium intake for the care of those who pay the  premiums.
if they’re going to survive, they feel they need to maximize interventions,” she says.
good evidence for  surgery doing what, exactly?
i think one of the biggest benefits of many alternative treatments is the fact that they work with your body and the natural processes that are already taking place.
i am deeply sorry you have not had the chance to experience that.—
the fact remains, whether people  “believe in it” or not, that more people have been treated with  acupuncture over 5000 years than with any other form of medicine.
don’t stay stuck in narrow orthodoxy.
i believe most of my health problems could have been less disabling, less painful, and some even prevented if i could have seen an alternative or integrated doctor.
i believe most of my health  problems could have been less disabling, less painful, and some even prevented  if i could have seen an alternative or integrated doctor.
but he  could have no rest.
the main thing that i have learned is that anything is possible, and the power of the mind is incredible.
thank you for your time, rebecca for shame, wisconsin.
helping people change unhealthy lifestyles requires an investment in health care teams that will stand by patients as they try to change.
the idea is to be as resourceful  as possible to offer a comprehensive program for patients.
alternative medicine is another tool in the  tool kit.
it is the  seat to the immune system and a healthy immune system is the cornerstone to all  healing.
even as acceptance grows, there are setbacks.
don’t stay stuck in narrow orthodoxy.—kim met dr. rakel once for my chronic back pain and found him actually interested in me as a person.
i love being a nurse, but it is sickening me that in our society we diagnose people with chronic diseases, tell them they will be on drugs for the rest of their lives, and watch them slowly die for the next 5-15 years believing there is no cure.
i also understand that i would need to get a doctor to oversee this venture  as i am a lpn.
we haven’t got a scrap of evidence supporting theories of  meridians or chi.
we are losing sight of the art of medicine.
it is the seat to the immune system and a healthy immune system is the cornerstone to all healing.
if the therapies work for people, then they are not “false”  therapies.
i looked down and there were lakes and oak trees.”
the discipline has had its ups and downs since rakel’s training in integrative medicine began in tucson.
most doctors would rather give you meds instead of alternative ways.
patients in integrative medicine, like any primary care patients, get flu shots, blood-pressure medications, or recommendations for surgery when their health calls for allopathic medicine.
but we  miss out on what that symptom is trying to teach us, what it is that might be  eating [the patient] up inside.”
the good news, is that there is a lot that can be done for the future of  health care and dr. rakel is part of the answer.
“allopathic” medicine was a label originated by homeopaths to describe their philosophical opponents, but is not really a synonym for orthodox medicine, nor is “western” medicine (homeopathy, for example, was promulgated by a german).
it has taken more than a year, and hasn’t been a miraculous cure for peterson, who remains in a wheelchair.
he would not have been present with his loved ones.”
— dan oct 15, 2010 your conversion to “integrative medicine” was inevitable as it  is for anyone in a medical discipline if they are open to looking beyond the  drug-based disease model of medicine to a preventative health maintenance  model.
like many conventional, or allopathic, western physicians, rakel was skeptical.
people have died,  and will continue to die, by opting for “alternative” approaches  instead of real medicine.
ups and downs with fundamental changes to the nation’s health care delivery system  recently passed into law, integrative medicine may well get increased  attention.
dan your conversion to “integrative medicine” was inevitable as it is for anyone in a medical discipline if they are open to looking beyond the drug-based disease model of medicine to a preventative health maintenance model.
as  of now, i am imprisoned in an unhealthy body of pain, fatigue, and misery.
besides, if people didn’t need to buy as many drugs, it would really be unfortunate for pharmaceutical companies, and of course the economy at large.
its claims must therefore be supported by evidence, not anecdote.
but i can certainly attest to its effectiveness, and i cannot ignore the life changing benefits it has had for me.—
the acupuncturist came.
the study found that only 2 to 4 percent of  americans engage in all of them.
most of my patients are taking between 15 and 30 pills a day.
weekly, my patients tell me, “my tests came out fine, and everyone tells me i’m doing well,so why do i feel so bad?”
on a personal note, i must say that i was fortunate enough to get to see  dr. rakel when i was an undergraduate, and discuss some very challenging  chronic disease diagnoses i had been dealing with already for over ten years.
“he was able to die with loving family around him and a sense of peace.
brenda dottl rn — brenda dottl rn bsn
faculty, health and medicine, science categories: issues, fall 2010, features i have been a nurse(lpn)for the past 2 and 1/2 years at a clinic in st. croix falls wi.
“we have a wonderful disease care system,” rakel says.
weekly, my patients tell me, “my tests came  out fine, and everyone tells me i’m doing well,so why do i feel so  bad?”
rakel is a staunch advocate for moving prevention and wellness from an  afterthought to the core mission of health care.
rakel is realistic, seeing change as a highly individual endeavor.
each facility offers therapies such as massage and acupuncture; the  research park clinic also provides health psychology, feldenkrais (movement  therapy), healing touch, mindfulness stress reduction, yoga, and tai chi.
“dr. rakel has been  a mentor from that point forward,” fortney says.
“if it  becomes part of what doctors do in primary care, working with different healers  as a team, then i think it has an important role,” says frey.
it surprises (and scares) me to see the comments of doctors and nurses in particular who do not seem to recognize this.
if one didn’t  work they would give you another, and another, and another.
“you  develop insights into why they might be coming to see you with headaches.”
but all the while, patients are encouraged to look beyond a  quick prescription-pad solution for what ails them, and to take as much control  as they can over their well-being.
for me, it has helped  where pure science failed.
drugs, the main weapon in rakel’s medical arsenal, made the dying man groggy and unaware, and still the hiccups continued.
scientific or not, if it works, that’s all that matters.
acupuncture and asian medicine is now, additionally, taught at many well-respected medical schools across this country to enrich their “orthodox” medical education.
it is great to have your own opinion; but to be embarrassed for something that has brought life back to so many people, that’s what you should be ashamed for.
a lifestyle prescription must, he has written, “be individualized based on the health, energy, resources, and personality of the patient.”
as rakel imagined a golden eagle, he says, “he picked me up by the collar and we went flying.”
for myself, i would be honored to work in this exciting and integrative  program.
“i have no hesitation to use  drugs,” rakel says.
the incident started rakel on a path that would lead to his founding the  university’s integrative medicine program in 2001.
“in my career, it’s gone up and down about three times,” says rakel.
a public health intervention designed to reduce salt consumption by 1,200  milligrams — or about two-thirds of a teaspoon — a day, could  nearly cut in half the number of new cases of heart disease, stroke, and heart  attack.
the hope is that as scientific studies find alternative therapies to be  beneficial, insurers will cover them, just as they do a proven blood-pressure  medication or an effective surgical procedure.
i personally am all in favor of any medicine that carries no negative side effects.
for lynette peterson, rakel has been a lifesaver.
generally these  teams consist of doctors and nurses, but rakel would also like to include  nutritionists, exercise physiologists, health psychologists, social workers,  and even spiritual guides working with individuals to help them stay healthy on  their own terms.
while the american cancer society says there’s no proof that guided imagery influences the progress of cancer, the acs web site does cite evidence that the technique can reduce stress, anxiety, and pain and lessen some of the side effects of chemotherapy, such as nausea and vomiting.
we need our health and political leadership to stress the importance of this.”
it is not “extinct” medicine but is still continuing to help individuals all over the world.
why should people touch each other or peacefully meditate to keep from becoming too stressed when they could just take drugs to make them feel better?
the care she provides involves listening and talking, not  performing high-income-yielding procedures.
in fact, frey says, without that mix, integrative medicine would get no respect.
thank you for your time, rebecca sep 29, 2010 for shame, wisconsin.
i can’t wait  for the day my insurance will pay for one of these fantastic doctors instead of  paying many thousands of dollars a month for pills.
check it out athttp://ebling.library.wisc.edu/ .
we need more evidence to show that human touch is a good thing.
— janet click here to cancel reply.
there is a clear line between real  medicine and fake medicine, and fuzzing the boundary is neither ethical nor  efficient.
“he’s got such a  positive approach,” she says.
— catherine arnott smith oct 13, 2010 i find it strange and quite sad that part of what makes this  “alternative” practice’s approach successful is that the  doctors spend enough time with their patients to understand their concerns and  start to consider the etiology as well as the symptoms.
in addition to editing  the field’s key textbook,integrative medicine, rakel’s work today  centers on teaching and caring for patients at the integrative medicine odana  atrium clinic on madison’s west side and the integrative medicine  research park clinic.
a heart surgeon, for example, earns an average of $515,000 a year, according to an allied physicians salary survey, while a family practice physician averages $135,000.
but her symptoms have stabilized.
the most difficult part  for me, is knowing that chronic diseases are increasing, and they are occuring  earlier in our lifespan.
patients in integrative medicine, like any primary care patients, get flu  shots, blood-pressure medications, or recommendations for surgery when their  health calls for allopathic medicine.
i consider him a kind man that gently guides  you to help yourself.
many meds were new  with a lot of side effects, some maybe long term.
leslie i spent twenty years seeing “real/conventional/orthodox” medicine specialists and none of them could identify the problem and instead only tried to treat the many symptoms.
“we really spend a lot of time listening,” fortney says of those who practice integrative medicine.
“allopathic” medicine was a label originated by homeopaths to  describe their philosophical opponents, but is not really a synonym for  orthodox medicine, nor is “western” medicine (homeopathy, for  example, was promulgated by a german).
this claim should not be compared to  claims that therapies like acupuncture and massage help “remove  barriers” that “may be blocking the body’s ability to  heal”.
the episode gave david rakel, the man’s physician and neighbor, a memorable lesson in the importance of watching, listening, and heeding the desires of his patients.
http://www.photius.com/rankings/healthranks.html in the us, we excel in acute care, we have the best technology and  resources at our finger tips, yet we have embarrassing long term and infant  mortality statistics.
study after study shows that  he is on to something.
alternative, complementary, and integrative medicine are not synonymous  but represent different stages along the evolutionary continuum described here.
the goal is to shift the health care system from its emphasis on reacting to a symptom or disease toward being more proactive.
he was looking down at the lakes and forests of the upper  midwest, not at the rocky mountains.
cancer  patients, for example, may be encouraged to imagine tiny healthy cells  overpowering destructive cancer cells in their bodies.
since arriving on campus, rakel has taught a variety of integrative medicine techniques to both students and fellow physicians.
i’m sure it won’t be long before that one is totally blocked.
two years ago, at 46 years old, i went into  cardiac arrest because of 2 blocked arteries and a 3rd one partially blocked.
for myself, i would be honored to work in this exciting and integrative program.—
i’m sure he will help many patients — who would otherwise be doomed to “medicine as usual” these days.
part of their prescription for  good health will surely be to exercise and get moderate sunshine to reduce  depression.
bravo dr. david rakel, and bravo to the university of wisconsin for  recognizing the salience of non-invasive and non-damaging therapeutics.
the goal is integrating  different modalities to help patients to heal.
it’s been a decade since rakel’s training at the arizona center for integrative medicine, and he’s just been approved for tenure at the uw.
i encourage you to also look at music therapy as it is based on very sound scientific data, now increasingly focused on the effects of music on brain functions, and is used very effectively in obstetrics, oncology, surgery, hemodialysis, pediatrics, neurology, immunology, psychiatry, and for treating autism, aphasia, dementia, and a wide variety of developmental disabilities.—dale i am very pleased to see this article in on wisconsin.
we must stay  strong and resist all that is unfamiliar.
they see their work as healing the whole patient, rather than being limited to specific body parts.
people have died, and will continue to die, by opting for “alternative” approaches instead of real medicine.
and their  spiritual beliefs will be considered as individual health plans are developed.
we need to communicate a common goal to the food  industry, school lunch programs, marketing personnel,” rakel says.
no medication no extra visits needed.
frey was key to getting rakel to come to wisconsin.
study after study shows that he is on to something.
let’s apply the university’s resources to treatments that work,  and cancel this program.
generally these teams consist of doctors and nurses, but rakel would also like to include nutritionists, exercise physiologists, health psychologists, social workers, and even spiritual guides working with individuals to help them stay healthy on their own terms.
but i can certainly attest to its  effectiveness, and i cannot ignore the life changing benefits it has had for me.
“they’re often indicated and  beneficial.”
part of their prescription for good health will surely be to exercise and get moderate sunshine to reduce depression.
personally, i have dealt with on ongoing illness for the past 8 years and have been to upwards of 7 different specialists and been on 10 different medications that have come with scores of different side effects, some of which were so severe that they put my life on hold completely.
we are far from understanding all of the intricacies of the human body and its healing processes.
in 2002, luke fortney ’98, md’03, now an assistant professor in  the family medicine program, was the first of rakel’s students in a  month-long elective rotation in integrative medicine.
in january 2010, thenew england journal of medicine found compelling evidence that reducing salt intake would save lives and money.
the way payment incentives are set up through  america’s insurance systems, a physician earns more for seeing four  patients in an hour than for spending an entire hour with one patient.
it was  there that he began to shed his skepticism about acupuncture, herbal  supplements, guided imagery, and a host of healing techniques that he believes  medicine can add seamlessly to the mix of traditional western options.
“if someone comes in with upper gastric pain, i can turn that off with prilosec, and the patient leaves happy.
“he was able to die with loving  family around him and a sense of peace.
i wish i had a choice to see a doctor like you, but can’t because of insurance not covering it.
brenda dottl rn— brenda dottl rn bsn
when it’s not, funds are cut.
it’s been a decade since rakel’s training at the arizona center  for integrative medicine, and he’s just been approved for tenure at the  uw.
“if it becomes part of what doctors do in primary care, working with different healers as a team, then i think it has an important role,” says frey.
magic!”) have concluded that the location of the  puncture, the type of needle, and just about every other medically relevant  aspect of acupuncture treatment makes no difference in outcomes.
we can already see the influence that such lax thinking has  brought in terms of reducing the number of people seeking vaccinations.
but one thing i disagree with dr. rakel is that i’m not very much into imagery medicine.
we need drugs to treat the acute problem and simultaneously the information on how to treat the cause of the dysfunction.
she has written for u.s. news & world report and the la times and has published online for msnbc.com and the boston globe.
the good news, is that there is a lot that can be done for the future of health care and dr. rakel is part of the answer.
if the therapies work for people, then they are not “false” therapies.
“[integrative medicine is]  dedicated to pursuing the science behind [the discipline].”
“you develop insights into why they might be coming to see you with headaches.”
they include an emphasis on  prevention, and on standards of evidence that will allow alternative therapies  to be evaluated head-to-head with conventional therapies.
symptoms can be mild or increasingly severe, but there is no  cure.
it shows how  insightful and forward thinking the uw continues to be.
“if i had given him  more drugs, he would have been lethargic.
and their spiritual beliefs will be considered as individual health plans are developed.
my point is that we need to ensure that there is a solid basis for any medical intervention.
maybe then i can have a  little bit of a joy in my life with my 2 year old grand-daughter and family.
there is no evidence to support this.
“he’s developed a  very talented group of young family doctors, and was instrumental in getting a  fellowship program going.”
i prefer not to be touched at all, and i am still  alive.
natalie i’m a recently certified family nurse practitioner and throughout this article i kept thinking “that’s what i learned!”
it is silly to say that just because something cannot be explained it is not worthwhile treatment.
i recently approaced the ceo of this organization to see if he would be  interested in starting an integrated medicine progam here.
—dale oct 17, 2010 i am very pleased to see this article in on wisconsin.
integrative medicine is very important, vital to the future of health care in the us.
as a med student i cannot explain to you why this treatment has worked
dr. walshen— david the problem with alternative medicine is it drives people who are ignorant into the arms of those who will take their money and give them nothing in return.
rakel confirms that “the uw hospital has been supportive of our  program” and that an interdisciplinary uw hospital health and healing  committee was started a few years ago for just that purpose.
yes, there is good evidence for some things and not for others.
a heart surgeon, for example, earns an average of $515,000 a year,  according to an allied physicians salary survey, while a family practice  physician averages $135,000.
massage therapists treat conditions such as back and neck pain, headaches,  sports injuries, and stress.
the body can respond as though what’s being imagined is a real event.
luckily, most oncologists and other cancer health professionals see the benefit.”
i honestly cannot understand how a serious institution like the uw can offer treatments that lack any scientific basis.
one visit with dr. rakel was all it took.
a drastic change in diet has  greatly improved my condition.
we spoke for a while and he made some suggestions  in changing the patterns he thought were causing my back pain.
but all the while, patients are encouraged to look beyond a quick prescription-pad solution for what ails them, and to take as much control as they can over their well-being.
it’s not certain how integrative medicine will fare under the newly  passed health reform law.
thank you dr. rakel you are an extremely  knowledgeable and very compassionate doctor.
while a physician may lead the medical team, the workload is  shared among various professionals, and the patient ends up getting more time  devoted to health education, disease prevention, and chronic disease control.
life expectancy is starting to decline.
“the integrative medicine program was something i didn’t know  much about.”
— will oct 14, 2010 tim, have you read dr. rakel’s books?
— hollis moore oct 13, 2010 i would like to speak only on acupuncture.
practices just because the science behind them has not been proven yet.
“to understand how to implement a low-salt program, we have to understand how complex systems interact.
as for my own illness, it has practically vanished in a matter of 3 months  since beginning treatment with an acupuncturist.
torn by what he saw as two excellent options, he turned to guided imagery.
the most difficult part for me, is knowing that chronic diseases are increasing, and they are occuring earlier in our lifespan.
but, according to theintegrated health care policy consortium, a coalition of conventional, alternative, and complementary health professionals, there are some positive signs.
i think that with medicine it is important to focus on the body, the organs, the overall energy, the posture, nutrition, knowledge, that kind of stuff.
a lifestyle  prescription must, he has written, “be individualized based on the  health, energy, resources, and personality of the patient.”
in 2002, luke fortney ’98, md’03, now an assistant professor in the family medicine program, was the first of rakel’s students in a month-long elective rotation in integrative medicine.
according to the world health organization, the united states ranks 37th in overall health.
—mike oct 18, 2010 tim is right.
i prefer not to be touched at all, and i am still alive.
steve tim’s comment sums this up pretty well.
we treat nearly everything with a chemical or surgery.
it is silly to say that just because something cannot be explained  it is not worthwhile treatment.
in 2009, physician lucille  marchand saw her integrative medicine work at the uw oncology clinic go from  full time to one day a week because of a funding reduction from the hospital.
in his mind, he went flying on the wings  of an eagle.
yes, there is good evidence for some things and  not for others.
— tim oct 12, 2010 very impressive , may god bless you —temple of god on earth  ——yours in faith , healing ,compassion care and love ( the utmost  highest vibration in this existense ….
i’m in favor of increased access to evidence-based  information about these therapies, because it will let patients make informed  decisions.
how you started.can people from other hospitals have access to your policies and procedures for this?— janet name (required) e-mail (will not be published) (required) 25 comments ward 2.0 lord of the flies
i even read that british  md’s in the 1920s visually confirmed the existence of hairlike  mini-nerves in the exact same places that the chinese have theorized the  meridians to be.
rakel steered peterson to acupuncture, changed some of her prescription medications, added dietary suggestions, and encouraged the use of fish oil, herbs, and regular exercise.
“hospitals see integrative  medicine as less necessary.
i also have degenerating spine, ruptured spinal disks, nerve pain, arthritis, and the list goes on.
these are red herrings.
kamal 214-664-6044 — 2406  syracuse drive – irving – texas 75062 —–drkamaldiab4@ymail.com — dr, kamal deyab mohamed  -md-nd-bcnp oct 13, 2010 tim, you have lost focus for the goal of medicine, it is to cure the patients  of their ailments regardless of the drug, or technique, science based or  anecdotal.
“in my career, it’s  gone up and down about three times,” says rakel.
— hollis moore i would like to speak only on acupuncture.
maybe then i can have a little bit of a joy in my life with my 2 year old grand-daughter and family.
patients are taught to meditate to reduce stress and encouraged to eat a diet rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, nuts, soy, olive oil, cold-water fish, and dark-colored berries for heart health.
massage therapists treat conditions such as back and neck pain, headaches, sports injuries, and stress.
“so we came to wisconsin,” he  says.
i have been a  practicing rn for 24 years.
it is “real medicine”.
his calling was to bring those lessons back to the broader world of  american health care and help integrate them with the best that conventional  medicine has to offer.
what does make a difference?
like dr. walshen, i’m all for anything that relieves  suffering, whether “scientific” or not, but please, let’s  have physicians practicing science-based medicine and leave the rest to the  mystics and gurus.
for john frey, professor in thedepartment of family medicine and the man  who hired rakel in 2001, rakel’s interest in integrative medicine has  been a bonus.
that journey to the midwest began in driggs, nestled between the tetons and  the big hole mountains and just over the pass from jackson hole, wyoming, where  he first hung out his shingle as a rural family practice physician.
he was looking down at the lakes and forests of the upper midwest, not at the rocky mountains.
what the patient is being told will happen, what the setting is like, who the doctor is, etc.
“we  really spend a lot of time listening,” fortney says of those who practice  integrative medicine.
“these lessons are hard to  learn,” he says.
often, patients who come to the clinics are facing difficult chronic diseases and complicated tangles of symptoms.
[...]— to be a carer | steel wagstaff's blog keep up the good work dr. rakel.
—kim oct 14, 2010 met dr. rakel once for my chronic back pain and found him actually  interested in me as a person.
what does make  a difference?
i am all for whatever methods can provide relief for those who are  suffering, regardless how “scientific” the approach.
“dr. rakel has been a mentor from that point forward,” fortney says.
by this i mean being rushed through their appointment times, dutifully drugged as most of us are taught from first year of medical school on, and ignored as unique human beings who have powerful healing resources within which can be accessed, stimulated, and strengthened.
the goal is to shift the health care system from its emphasis on reacting  to a symptom or disease toward being more proactive.
the goal here is not “either/or”.
and primary care physicians, forced by the health care delivery system to  spend as little as fifteen or twenty minutes with a patient, don’t have  the time they need to get to the core of symptoms or to really influence the  course of a chronic disease.
scientific or not, if it  works, that’s all that matters.
as of now, i am imprisoned in an unhealthy body of pain, fatigue, and misery.—dawn i have worked in health care for 35 years and have spent 20 of those years studying healing touch, massage and herbal medicine.i would like your advise in starting a department of complementary therapies here where i work.
“if someone comes in with upper gastric  pain, i can turn that off with prilosec, and the patient leaves happy.
but changing an american’s lifestyle is difficult.
are insufficiently detailed — would we accept a conventionally oriented physician’s statement that “there is good evidence for surgery?”
dr. david rakel the hiccups wouldn’t stop.
i think that with  medicine it is important to focus on the body, the organs, the overall energy,  the posture, nutrition, knowledge, that kind of stuff.
fortunately, the department of family medicine stepped in, providing resources  to continue her work.
i was  diagnosed with heart disease, high blood pressure, sleep apnea, high  cholesterol, pre-diabetes, & low vitamin d. i have seen too many doctors to  count and have been on about 100 different medications.
throughout my nursing career i have been taught to treat the patient, not just  the disease.
please keep us posted, dr. rakel.
there is no evidence to support the various treatments identified here, like acupuncture and healing touch, as offering anything beyond placebo.
rakel knows that not everyone will buy the whole  package, which could include flying with an imaginary golden eagle to help nail  down a difficult decision.
you have made me embarrassed to be a uw alumnus.
it is looking at a patient as a whole person and not just their disease (some people actually like that!).
“the financial incentives [that focus on rewarding the treatment of disease] always swing against it.”
the care she provides involves listening and talking, not performing high-income-yielding procedures.
the label alternative medicine has morphed into integrative medicine, via the terms “complementary” and “holistic.”
the way payment incentives are set up through america’s insurance systems, a physician earns more for seeing four patients in an hour than for spending an entire hour with one patient.
rakel says this doesn’t  necessarily pan out, however, as there is now “good evidence for  acupuncture,” and very few insurers cover it.
the human brain is prone to all kinds of irrational processes, and the best way to ensure we are not wrongly influenced by them is to subject our theories to the scientific process.
personally, i have dealt with on ongoing  illness for the past 8 years and have been to upwards of 7 different  specialists and been on 10 different medications that have come with scores of  different side effects, some of which were so severe that they put my life on  hold completely.
this is not good medicine.
on a personal note, i must say that i was fortunate enough to get to see dr. rakel when i was an undergraduate, and discuss some very challenging chronic disease diagnoses i had been dealing with already for over ten years.
—  martin oct 13, 2010 unfortunately, this article has some definitional issues and conceptual  leaps that don’t make this important and necessary conversation any  easier.
but so was an  unconventional decision-making method.
just  because we cannot scientifically explain why something such as acupuncture  works, does not mean that there is not a scientific process behind it.
we can already see the influence that such lax thinking has brought in terms of reducing the number of people seeking vaccinations.
thank you for looking at the whole  picture and identifying the problem rather than treating symptoms.
a drastic change in diet has greatly improved my condition.
it is called “integrative” for a reason.
if they’re going to survive, they feel they  need to maximize interventions,” she says.
we need to communicate a common goal to the food industry, school lunch programs, marketing personnel,” rakel says.
there is no evidence to support the various treatments identified here,  like acupuncture and healing touch, as offering anything beyond placebo.
most doctors would rather  give you meds instead of alternative ways.
it was august of 1996, and an elderly stroke victim lay dying in his home in the small town of driggs, idaho.
“he’s developed a very talented group of young family doctors, and was instrumental in getting a fellowship program going.”
“what attracted me about him was that he’s a talented doctor with a wonderful perspective on patient and family care,” says frey.
kamal 214-664-6044 — 2406 syracuse drive – irving – texas 75062 —–drkamaldiab4@ymail.com— dr, kamal deyab mohamed -md-nd-bcnp tim, you have lost focus for the goal of medicine, it is to cure the patients of their ailments regardless of the drug, or technique, science based or anecdotal.
alternative medicine is another tool in the tool kit.
that journey to the midwest began in driggs, nestled between the tetons and the big hole mountains and just over the pass from jackson hole, wyoming, where he first hung out his shingle as a rural family practice physician.
he spent those fellowship years learning how integrative  medicine rests on four pillars of health promotion: social, psychological,  physical, and environmental.
“you’ve got to read your audience,” he says, “meet  them where they’re at, and maybe bring them to a new place of  awareness.
i am a proponent of “orthodox” treatments when they are needed but if alternative practices are offering less invasive and harsh options that can solve a patient’s needs, why not?
like many lifestyle changes, reducing salt intake is so much easier said than done.
by susan brink  photos by jeff miller dr. david rakel the hiccups wouldn’t stop.
good evidence for surgery doing what, exactly?
drugs, the main weapon in rakel’s medical  arsenal, made the dying man groggy and unaware, and still the hiccups  continued.
like many lifestyle changes, reducing salt intake is so much easier said  than done.
the main thing that i have learned is  that anything is possible, and the power of the mind is incredible.
i am glad to see uw health get an  integrated doctor like you.
the person  in charge said”
“what attracted me about him was that he’s a talented  doctor with a wonderful perspective on patient and family care,” says  frey.
e-mail (will not be published) (required)
“one oncologist said he didn’t believe in integrative medicine.
i think one of the biggest benefits of many alternative  treatments is the fact that they work with your body and the natural processes  that are already taking place.
“so we came to wisconsin,” he says.
pam pappas md oct 29, 2010 to be clear, my comment had nothing to do with the general issues of  whether it is better to use more or less invasive approaches (obviously, the  less invasive the better, and i am not in favor of peddling pills over other  accepted courses of treatment) or whether it is better to spend enough time  with patients to ensure a proper diagnosis (clearly it is).
rakel steered peterson to acupuncture,  changed some of her prescription medications, added dietary suggestions, and  encouraged the use of fish oil, herbs, and regular exercise.
why can’t people be normal and just take a bunch of drugs?—mark i think it is ignorant to simply discredit “alternative” practices just because the science behind them has not been proven yet.
he also started the integrative medicine clinic at the  comprehensive cancer center at the uw hospital.
but offering options such as guided imagery, acupuncture, nutrition education, and lifestyle advice along with conventional medical options can help.
since arriving  on campus, rakel has taught a variety of integrative medicine techniques to  both students and fellow physicians.
“the integrative medicine program was something i didn’t know much about.”
let’s start with acupuncture.
“you’ve got to read your audience,” he says, “meet them where they’re at, and maybe bring them to a new place of awareness.
if  the tests prove that it works, and are replicated, this course of treatment  becomes “medicine” (which is the same thing as “conventional  medicine”).
rakel says this doesn’t necessarily pan out, however, as there is now “good evidence for acupuncture,” and very few insurers cover it.
in his mind, he went flying on the wings of an eagle.
based on the concept that the body and mind are connected, guided imagery is a way of employing all the senses to help steer imagination.
(i hold acupuncture licenses in three states and  have facilitated licensing in the fourth).
“we can reverse acute episodes of disease.
she swims twice a week, remembering his advice: ‘keep  exercising, keep swimming.
statements like “there is now  ‘good evidence for acupuncture’”
there is evidence to support these claims, and this evidence has been replicated in a number of tests.
how can the university of wisconsin teach its students to rely on the scientific method when part of the university is pushing treatments that fail this method?—tim
but so was an unconventional decision-making method.
years prior to becoming a nurse i read and did research on a lot of diseases and how people have used alternative treatments to overcome their ailment.
furthermore, the very basis of acupuncture, meridians of energy running through the body, simply has no evidential basis and makes no sense given our knowledge of biology and the universe in general.
i hope that one day our  health care system will have evolved to a point where doctors being able to  give their patients sufficient time and consideration to help them promote  their own short-term and long-term health is not the alternative, it is the  norm.
these are red  herrings.
he would not have been present with  his loved ones.”
our doctors are trained to depend on lab and diagnostic tests, which are  not good for early detection.
its not a battle between synthetically produced reactions and natural processes but rather inducing natural processes that your body needs to heal itself.
dr. rakel, let me know if you ever open up for new patients, i will be the  first in line.
for john frey, professor in thedepartment of family medicine and the man who hired rakel in 2001, rakel’s interest in integrative medicine has been a bonus.
are insufficiently detailed  — would we accept a conventionally oriented physician’s statement  that “there is good evidence for surgery?”
the one problem with the strictly scientific approach to healing is that it often leaves out the whole person.
— melissa oct 25, 2010 bravo to dr. rakel for practicing in, and trying to enlighten, such a  conservative (and in some cases ignorant) area of the country.
plenty of double blind studies referenced in his books support the therapies he discusses.
we can spend all the time we want defining the word  “medicine” or we can do something about it and help patients to  their greatest potential by complimenting our own “western  medicine” with alternative therapies.
but we haven’t paid enough attention to helping people avoid disease.”
but we miss out on what that symptom is trying to teach us, what it is that might be eating [the patient] up inside.”
catherine arnott smith i find it strange and quite sad that part of what makes this “alternative” practice’s approach successful is that the doctors spend enough time with their patients to understand their concerns and start to consider the etiology as well as the symptoms.
bravo dr. david rakel, and bravo to the university of wisconsin for recognizing the salience of non-invasive and non-damaging therapeutics.—mike tim is right.
think about that the next time you are considering going under  the knife!
and, if you need an fnp, let me know!
he left idaho for a two-year fellowship at theuniversity of arizona  in tucson.
let’s apply the university’s resources to treatments that work, and cancel this program.—
its practitioners are schooled in ways to hold on to their hearts and souls  even as they master the intricacies of anatomy, physiology, biology, and  psychology.
for me, it has helped where pure science failed.
and i don’t need to go into  detail about what everybody already knows: most pharmaceutical drugs are  actually worse than placebos.
the integrative approach could be so much more cost-effective, but would not rake in the billions of dollars to insurance stockholders who often spend less than 20% of their premium intake for the care of those who pay the premiums.
our medical system is  designed to profit when we are ill.
sincerely, pam pappas md to be clear, my comment had nothing to do with the general issues of whether it is better to use more or less invasive approaches (obviously, the less invasive the better, and i am not in favor of peddling pills over other accepted courses of treatment) or whether it is better to spend enough time with patients to ensure a proper diagnosis (clearly it is).
the one problem with the strictly scientific approach to healing is that it  often leaves out the whole person.
in the united states, acupuncture is state-licensed, regulated mostly by  medical boards (yes, “orthodox” medical boards) and supervised by  state acupuncture advisory committees, comprised of both licensed  acupuncturists and physicians.
they listen for clues about what in patients’ lives  might be contributing to ailments such as restless leg, acid reflux, or chronic  pain, as well as what they might be willing to do to make changes.
— emily apr 19, 2011 [...] of paths to dwell in” (isaiah 58:12).
but by any other name, it means health care as opposed to disease care, an emphasis on wellness even as it deals with illness.
i love being a nurse, but it is sickening me that in our society we  diagnose people with chronic diseases, tell them they will be on drugs for the  rest of their lives, and watch them slowly die for the next 5-15 years  believing there is no cure.
in 1999, rakel decided to learn as much as he could about integrative  medicine.
there isn’t even any controversy over this except on the fringes of the medical profession, unlike over other cam treatments such as meditation and guided visualization, the efficacy of which have not been established.
shared space leading the war on obesity a rune with a view on point » humorology » torrid madison » © 2012 wisconsin alumni association
mentoring students and patients at the uw, rakel began teaching integrative medicine techniques to  students, as well as fellow physicians.
no one  makes money by reducing salt in the diet.”
i was diagnosed with heart disease, high blood pressure, sleep apnea, high cholesterol, pre-diabetes, & low vitamin d. i have seen too many doctors to count and have been on about 100 different medications.
act early, heal better.
“[practitioners] get good at seeing people quickly by just treating symptoms,” rakel says.
there is a clear line between real medicine and fake medicine, and fuzzing the boundary is neither ethical nor efficient.
[...] — to be a  carer | steel wagstaff's blog oct 8, 2011 keep up the good work dr. rakel.
bradley — bradley oct 14, 2010
“[integrative medicine is] dedicated to pursuing the science behind [the discipline].”
if you could  give me some ideas as to how to get started in this field i would appreciate  it.
the episode gave david rakel, the man’s physician and neighbor, a  memorable lesson in the importance of watching, listening, and heeding the  desires of his patients.
it was august of 1996, and an elderly  stroke victim lay dying in his home in the small town of driggs, idaho.
i am only 48 years old and have suffered  over 20 years with fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, chronic pain,  chronic headaches, muscle pain, weakness, insomnia, stress, anxiety, and  depression.
the body can  respond as though what’s being imagined is a real event.
i can’t wait for the day my insurance will pay for one of these fantastic doctors instead of paying many thousands of dollars a month for pills.
dr. rakel is doing a wonderful thing that has inspired so many!
a 2005 study in thearchives of internal medicine examined the top five health-producing behaviors: not smoking, getting adequate exercise, eating a healthy diet, managing stress, and using early disease detection tools such as mammograms and colonoscopies.
— steve oct 14, 2010 tim’s comment sums this up pretty well.
“he’s got such a positive approach,” she says.
like many conventional, or allopathic, western physicians, rakel was  skeptical.
at the uw, rakel began teaching integrative medicine techniques to students, as well as fellow physicians.
alternative, complementary, and integrative medicine are not synonymous but represent different stages along the evolutionary continuum described here.
my point is that we need to ensure that there is a solid basis for  any medical intervention.
understanding that there are not a lot of jobs in this  field i turned to traditional medicine.
“if i had given him more drugs, he would have been lethargic.
these medications and  treatments focused on a singular part of my health and instead of working with  my body to heal itself they were in a constant battle with what my body was  naturally trying to do.
i consider him a kind man that gently guides you to help yourself.
it is looking at a patient as a whole  person and not just their disease (some people actually like that!).
— leslie oct 14, 2010 i spent twenty years seeing “real/conventional/orthodox”  medicine specialists and none of them could identify the problem and instead  only tried to treat the many symptoms.
according to  the world health organization, the united states ranks 37th in overall health.
if meridians are real, then surgery is a very bad idea and should be  avoided at all costs.
we need our health and political  leadership to stress the importance of this.”
medicine is a  science.
a classic  example is to imagine a lemon — think of peeling it, smelling it,  squirting it in your mouth.
based on the concept that the body and mind are connected, guided imagery  is a way of employing all the senses to help steer imagination.
there is legitimate knowledge  left to be gained about medicine, and some of it will come from the alternative  medicine community.
there is also conflict of interest  as some doctors have financial relationships with pharmaceutical companies and  that makes me even more uncomfortable taking meds.
as for my own illness, it has practically vanished in a matter of 3 months since beginning treatment with an acupuncturist.
if  someone has a theory about a course of treatment, it is subject to testing.
the discipline has had its ups and downs since rakel’s training in  integrative medicine began in tucson.
—dawn dec 15, 2011 i have worked in health care for 35 years and have spent 20 of those years  studying healing touch, massage and herbal medicine.i would like your advise in  starting a department of complementary therapies
once considered on the fringes of health science, integrative medicine has  gotten a boost from technology such as functional magnetic resonance imaging,  which shows pathways between mind and body, and from research that backs up  connections between nutrition, physical activity, and good health.
these medications and treatments focused on a singular part of my health and instead of working with my body to heal itself they were in a constant battle with what my body was naturally trying to do.
oct 17, 2010 i personally am all in favor of any medicine that carries no negative side  effects.
they include an emphasis on prevention, and on standards of evidence that will allow alternative therapies to be evaluated head-to-head with conventional therapies.
as americans we need to look at the long term consequences of our behaviors, and we need a health care system that truly teaches us signs and symptoms of the beginnings of ill health so we can stop the progression of disease and debility.
as a med student i cannot  explain to you why this treatment has worked
as  americans we need to look at the long term consequences of our behaviors, and  we need a health care system that truly teaches us signs and symptoms of the  beginnings of ill health so we can stop the progression of disease and  debility.
i am a proponent of  “orthodox” treatments when they are needed but if alternative  practices are offering less invasive and harsh options that can solve a  patient’s needs, why not?
statements like “there is now ‘good evidence for acupuncture’”
dr. rakel is doing a wonderful  thing that has inspired so many!
we need more evidence to show that  human touch is a good thing.
rakel is  realistic, seeing change as a highly individual endeavor.
“if the health reformers are looking to get the biggest ‘bang  for their buck’ both in the prevention and management of chronic  disease,” they wrote, “they need look no further than delivering  [integrative medicine’s] four pillars [of social, psychological,  physical, and environmental health].”
his initial skepticism has turned to enthusiasm, and then evolved into a  true passion for practicing and teaching as one of the nation’s leaders  in integrative medicine.
as rakel imagined a golden eagle, he says, “he picked me up by the  collar and we went flying.”
“he’s been able to attract  a substantial number of young clinicians who agree there are a variety of  different approaches to care,” says frey.
just because we cannot scientifically explain why something such as acupuncture works, does not mean that there is not a scientific process behind it.
in a town that small, a doctor doesn’t wait until people come into the office to make observations about their well-being.
the american health care system, however, has always rewarded physicians skilled in invasive procedures more than those who listen to patients and talk them through healing.
the hope is that as scientific studies find alternative therapies to be beneficial, insurers will cover them, just as they do a proven blood-pressure medication or an effective surgical procedure.
dr. rakel, let me know if you ever open up for new patients, i will be the first in line.—
it is called  “integrative” for a reason.
for example, there is nothing “alternative” about the claim  that there is a link between nutrition and physical activity, on the one hand,  and good health.
in 1999, rakel decided to learn as much as he could about integrative medicine.
family members suggested acupuncture.
rather than waiting for a person to develop diabetes, for example, and then rushing in with kidney dialysis or surgery for failing kidneys or limbs, rakel hopes that developing these health teams will help with prevention.
it was killing me,” she says.
rakel confirms that “the uw hospital has been supportive of our program” and that an interdisciplinary uw hospital health and healing committee was started a few years ago for just that purpose.
(i hold acupuncture licenses in three states and have facilitated licensing in the fourth).
the incident started rakel on a path that would lead to his founding the university’s integrative medicine program in 2001.
now sixty-five, she has  had multiple sclerosis, a disease that attacks the central nervous system, for  thirty-five years.
fortunately, the department of family medicine stepped in, providing resources to continue her work.
we need drugs to treat the acute problem and simultaneously the  information on how to treat the cause of the dysfunction.
david rakel started the integrative medicine research park clinic, which offers services such as meditation classes for stress reduction.
not sure what would  be needed to start other than my desire to truely help others.
there is also conflict of interest as some doctors have financial relationships with pharmaceutical companies and that makes me even more uncomfortable taking meds.
he also started the integrative medicine clinic at the comprehensive cancer center at the uw hospital.
our medical system is designed to profit when we are ill.
i have been a practicing rn for 24 years.
she found rakel after her physician prescribed a chemotherapy regimen  that left her with hair loss, sores on her lips and tongue, and loss of control  of her bladder and bowels.
“this is not  belief without substance,” says frey.
but we haven’t  paid enough attention to helping people avoid disease.”
“these lessons are hard to learn,” he says.
two years ago, at 46 years old, i went into cardiac arrest because of 2 blocked arteries and a 3rd one partially blocked.
the person in charge said”
i also have degenerating spine, ruptured spinal disks, nerve pain,  arthritis, and the list goes on.
http://www.photius.com/rankings/healthranks.html in the us, we excel in acute care, we have the best technology and resources at our finger tips, yet we have embarrassing long term and infant mortality statistics.
according to a clinic brochure, the staff focuses  on less invasive therapies such as massage “to help remove barriers that  may be blocking the body’s ability to heal.”
patients are taught to meditate to reduce stress and encouraged to eat a  diet rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, nuts, soy, olive oil, cold-water  fish, and dark-colored berries for heart health.
“he knows he can’t cure everybody.
“hospitals see integrative medicine as less necessary.
is exploiting the placebo effect.—
furthermore, the very basis of acupuncture, meridians of energy running  through the body, simply has no evidential basis and makes no sense given our  knowledge of biology and the universe in general.
i’m sure he will help many patients — who would otherwise be  doomed to “medicine as usual” these days.
for some it will work, for some it will not.
faculty, health and medicine, science categories: issues, fall 2010, features 25 responses to “integrative medicine man” sep 17, 2010 i have been a nurse(lpn)for the past 2 and 1/2 years at a clinic in st.  croix falls wi.
in the process, it could save between $10 billion and $24 billion a year in health care costs.
melissa bravo to dr. rakel for practicing in, and trying to enlighten, such a conservative (and in some cases ignorant) area of the country.
“i told him i couldn’t take any more  chemotherapy.
and it is based on the same  rigorous standards of evidence as any branch of medicine.
it was there that he began to shed his skepticism about acupuncture, herbal supplements, guided imagery, and a host of healing techniques that he believes medicine can add seamlessly to the mix of traditional western options.
i wish i had a choice to see a doctor like you, but  can’t because of insurance not covering it.
the goal is integrating different modalities to help patients to heal.
how you started.can people from other hospitals have access to your  policies and procedures for this?
symptoms can be mild or increasingly severe, but there is no cure.
we must stay strong and resist all that is unfamiliar.
why can’t people be normal and just take a bunch of drugs?
but one thing i disagree with dr.  rakel is that i’m not very much into imagery medicine.
and it should, according to an article that rakel co-authored with wayne jonas in a 2009 issue ofalternative therapies.
in addition to editing the field’s key textbook,integrative medicine, rakel’s work today centers on teaching and caring for patients at the integrative medicine odana atrium clinic on madison’s west side and the integrative medicine research park clinic.
and primary care physicians, forced by the health care delivery system to spend as little as fifteen or twenty minutes with a patient, don’t have the time they need to get to the core of symptoms or to really influence the course of a chronic disease.
i followed his  advice and though i will never be totally pain free, i am now off pain meds  that i took for over five years.
like dr. walshen, i’m all for anything that relieves suffering, whether “scientific” or not, but please, let’s have physicians practicing science-based medicine and leave the rest to the mystics and gurus.—
they listen for clues about what in patients’ lives might be contributing to ailments such as restless leg, acid reflux, or chronic pain, as well as what they might be willing to do to make changes.
he was stricken with a relentless case of hiccups, robbing  him of comfort.
in the process, it could save between $10 billion and $24 billion a  year in health care costs.
its not a battle between synthetically produced  reactions and natural processes but rather inducing natural processes that your  body needs to heal itself.
but he also knows there are things he can do to make their lives easier.”
will tim, have you read dr. rakel’s books?
he left idaho for a two-year fellowship at theuniversity of arizona in tucson.
and knowing how that must sound, rakel hurriedly assures with a laugh: “no hallucinogens.
i loved reading the story of driggs, idaho native david rakel, a tenured professor at uw-madison’s medical school, who has done much to practice good
plenty of double blind studies referenced in his books support the therapies he  discusses.
often, patients who come to the clinics are facing difficult chronic diseases  and complicated tangles of symptoms.
in fact, frey says,  without that mix, integrative medicine would get no respect.
i even read that british md’s in the 1920s visually confirmed the existence of hairlike mini-nerves in the exact same places that the chinese have theorized the meridians to be.
rather than waiting for a  person to develop diabetes, for example, and then rushing in with kidney  dialysis or surgery for failing kidneys or limbs, rakel hopes that developing  these health teams will help with prevention.
helping people change unhealthy lifestyles requires an investment in health  care teams that will stand by patients as they try to change.
he was one of four fellows to study with andrew weil, a pioneer in a field that has changed names a few times as it has slowly earned grudging respect.
there is no such thing as “alternative” medicine.
it is a little pathetic to be ashamed of uw for this.
tim very impressive , may god bless you —temple of god on earth ——yours in faith , healing ,compassion care and love ( the utmost highest vibration in this existense ….
even if we cannot explain why it works.
a public health intervention designed to reduce salt consumption by 1,200 milligrams — or about two-thirds of a teaspoon — a day, could nearly cut in half the number of new cases of heart disease, stroke, and heart attack.
“but what if we had whole teams of professionals to help make those [lifestyle] changes?
when integrative medicine is hot, the universe responds with initiatives such as an office within the national institutes of health.
not sure what would be needed to start other than my desire to truely help others.
i loved reading the story  of driggs, idaho native david rakel, a tenured professor at uw-madison’s  medical school, who has done much to practice good
another service offered by the integrative medicine clinics is acupuncture, which is designed to stimulate the natural healing processes of the body and is used to treat problems such as stress, nausea, pain, and other conditions.
“but what if we had whole teams of professionals  to help make those [lifestyle] changes?
i hope that one day our health care system will have evolved to a point where doctors being able to give their patients sufficient time and consideration to help them promote their own short-term and long-term health is not the alternative, it is the norm.
if you could give me some ideas as to how to get started in this field i would appreciate it.
there is legitimate knowledge left to be gained about medicine, and some of it will come from the alternative medicine community.
his initial skepticism has turned to enthusiasm, and then evolved into a true passion for practicing and teaching as one of the nation’s leaders in integrative medicine.
with fundamental changes to the nation’s health care delivery system recently passed into law, integrative medicine may well get increased attention.
a 2005 study in thearchives of internal medicine examined the top  five health-producing behaviors: not smoking, getting adequate exercise, eating  a healthy diet, managing stress, and using early disease detection tools such  as mammograms and colonoscopies.
while the american  cancer society says there’s no proof that guided imagery influences the  progress of cancer, the acs web site does cite evidence that the technique can  reduce stress, anxiety, and pain and lessen some of the side effects of  chemotherapy, such as nausea and vomiting.
“he’s been able to attract a substantial number of young clinicians who agree there are a variety of different approaches to care,” says frey.
she found rakel after her physician prescribed a chemotherapy regimen that left her with hair loss, sores on her lips and tongue, and loss of control of her bladder and bowels.
“if the health reformers are looking to get the biggest ‘bang for their buck’ both in the prevention and management of chronic disease,” they wrote, “they need look no further than delivering [integrative medicine’s] four pillars [of social, psychological, physical, and environmental health].”
do your lips purse up in response?
thank you dr. rakel you are an extremely knowledgeable and very compassionate doctor.
“to understand how to implement a low-salt program, we have to understand  how complex systems interact.
there, surrounded by desert peace and beauty and influenced by a steady stream of superstars in the field of healing arts and science, he took lessons in the heart, soul, art, and spirit of medicine.
his calling was to bring those lessons back to the broader world of american health care and help integrate them with the best that conventional medicine has to offer.
“we have a wonderful disease care system,” rakel  says.
the problem with alternative medicine is it drives people who are ignorant  into the arms of those who will take their money and give them nothing in  return.
it is not  “extinct” medicine but is still continuing to help individuals all  over the world.
especially if it is all natural.
if meridians are real, then surgery is a very bad idea and should be avoided at all costs.
the cochrane library, available remotely to people affiliated with the uw, is a good place to start.
and, if you need an fnp, let me know!— emily [...] of paths to dwell in” (isaiah 58:12).
there is evidence to support these claims, and this evidence  has been replicated in a number of tests.
for example, there is nothing “alternative” about the claim that there is a link between nutrition and physical activity, on the one hand, and good health.
luckily, most oncologists and  other cancer health professionals see the benefit.”
according to a clinic brochure, the staff focuses on less invasive therapies such as massage “to help remove barriers that may be blocking the body’s ability to heal.”
as americans, we can no longer afford to not investigate alternative, complementary, or integrative medicine.
the american  health care system, however, has always rewarded physicians skilled in invasive  procedures more than those who listen to patients and talk them through  healing.
once considered on the fringes of health science, integrative medicine has gotten a boost from technology such as functional magnetic resonance imaging, which shows pathways between mind and body, and from research that backs up connections between nutrition, physical activity, and good health.
contemporary american medicine focuses on diagnosis and treatment of existing disease.
magic!”) have concluded that the location of the puncture, the type of needle, and just about every other medically relevant aspect of acupuncture treatment makes no difference in outcomes.
he continues to go back to lessons learned from the folks in the small western town of driggs, idaho, with its 1,300 people and its fourteen-bed hospital.
following his fellowship, rakel weighed  teaching offers in colorado and wisconsin.
throughout my nursing career i have been taught to treat the patient, not just the disease.
“you see  your patients at the grocery store and in church,” he says.
this is not answer to curing a disease.
his work is based on solid evidence.
in other words, its all psychological.
he was stricken with a relentless case of hiccups, robbing him of comfort.
first of all, it does not work.
what the patient is being told will happen, what the setting is  like, who the doctor is, etc.
“he knows he can’t cure  everybody.
i’m only on 6 meds  now, after recently stopping 3 more of them.
they see their work as healing the whole patient, rather than being  limited to specific body parts.
each facility offers therapies such as massage and acupuncture; the research park clinic also provides health psychology, feldenkrais (movement therapy), healing touch, mindfulness stress reduction, yoga, and tai chi.
it surprises (and scares) me  to see the comments of doctors and nurses in particular who do not seem to  recognize this.
to those of you bashing alternative medicine, please educate yourself more on it first.
“i have no hesitation to use drugs,” rakel says.
i am only 48 years old and have suffered over 20 years with fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, chronic pain, chronic headaches, muscle pain, weakness, insomnia, stress, anxiety, and depression.
we don’t diagnose cancer until it’s  large enough for surgery, chemo or radiation.
i encourage you to also look at music therapy as it is based on very  sound scientific data, now increasingly focused on the effects of music on  brain functions, and is used very effectively in obstetrics, oncology, surgery,  hemodialysis, pediatrics, neurology, immunology, psychiatry, and for treating  autism, aphasia, dementia, and a wide variety of developmental disabilities.
no one makes money by reducing salt in the diet.”
but he could have no rest.
“the financial  incentives [that focus on rewarding the treatment of disease] always swing  against it.”
but making it work for millions of people is profoundly difficult.
“you see your patients at the grocery store and in church,” he says.
numerous studies (placebo controlled by the way, not “he poked me and my hiccups went away!
if we promote the kind of thinking advocated in this article, people will  continue to believe that acupuncture or other false therapies can be used in  place of conventional medicine (note one of the comments above for a good  example of this).
another service offered by the integrative medicine clinics is acupuncture,  which is designed to stimulate the natural healing processes of the body and is  used to treat problems such as stress, nausea, pain, and other conditions.
but we’re not going to find it by playing fast and loose with science and believing what feels right to use instead of subject our beliefs the close and rigorous scrutiny.—
if the tests prove that it works, and are replicated, this course of treatment becomes “medicine” (which is the same thing as “conventional medicine”).
besides, if people didn’t need to buy as many  drugs, it would really be unfortunate for pharmaceutical companies, and of  course the economy at large.
we haven’t got a scrap of evidence supporting theories of meridians or chi.
acupuncture and asian medicine is now, additionally, taught at many  well-respected medical schools across this country to enrich their  “orthodox” medical education.
— natalie nov 2, 2010 i’m a recently certified family nurse practitioner and throughout  this article i kept thinking “that’s what i learned!”
numerous studies (placebo controlled by the way, not “he poked me and my  hiccups went away!
she swims twice a week, remembering his advice: ‘keep exercising, keep swimming.
needless to say he inspired me greatly.
brink is a freelance health writer based in chicago.
but we’re not going to find it by playing fast and  loose with science and believing what feels right to use instead of subject our  beliefs the close and rigorous scrutiny.
we cannot let these “alternatives” threaten us.
he continues to go back to lessons learned from the folks in the small  western town of driggs, idaho, with its 1,300 people and its fourteen-bed  hospital.
but offering options such as guided imagery,  acupuncture, nutrition education, and lifestyle advice along with conventional  medical options can help.
there, surrounded by desert peace and beauty and influenced by a  steady stream of superstars in the field of healing arts and science, he took  lessons in the heart, soul, art, and spirit of medicine.
no snow-topped mountains.
if you hold that acupuncture is not a form of medicine complementary to  “real/conventional/orthodox medicine”, then perhaps you might  update yourself on the “evolutionary continuum”.
by this i mean being  rushed through their appointment times, dutifully drugged as most of us are  taught from first year of medical school on, and ignored as unique human beings  who have powerful healing resources within which can be accessed, stimulated,  and strengthened.
unfortunately, this article has some definitional issues and conceptual leaps that don’t make this important and necessary conversation any easier.
all this is doing is exploiting the placebo effect.
no snow-topped  mountains.
if someone has a theory about a course of treatment, it is subject to testing.
i was shocked and a bit  disappointed to see this on the front page.
he was one of four fellows to study with  andrew weil, a pioneer in a field that has changed names a few times as it has  slowly earned grudging respect.
think positive, think positive.’ ”
a classic example is to imagine a lemon — think of peeling it, smelling it, squirting it in your mouth.
no, acupuncture is not “real medicine” – it is not based  in science.
we can spend all the time we want defining the word “medicine” or we can do something about it and help patients to their greatest potential by complimenting our own “western medicine” with alternative therapies.
instead of receiving treatments that could save their lives they may just die.
—mark oct 18, 2010 i think it is ignorant to simply discredit “alternative”
in medicine, guided imagery can be used to control pain and stress.
it was a beautiful death,” says rakel, now a uw-madison professor of family medicine.
dr. walshen — david oct 13, 2010
rakel is a staunch advocate for moving prevention and wellness from an afterthought to the core mission of health care.
and it should, according to an article that rakel co-authored with  wayne jonas in a 2009 issue ofalternative therapies.
bradley no, acupuncture is not “real medicine” – it is not based in science.
my desire to get into health care was prompted by my interest  in alternative medicine.
“i told him i couldn’t take any more chemotherapy.
it was a beautiful death,” says  rakel, now a uw-madison professor of family medicine.
i also understand that i would need to get a doctor to oversee this venture as i am a lpn.
“we need to create financial incentives to make these changes.
it has taken more  than a year, and hasn’t been a miraculous cure for peterson, who remains  in a wheelchair.
it is  great to have your own opinion; but to be embarrassed for something that has  brought life back to so many people, that’s what you should be ashamed  for.
if one didn’t work they would give you another, and another, and another.
in the united states, acupuncture is state-licensed, regulated mostly by medical boards (yes, “orthodox” medical boards) and supervised by state acupuncture advisory committees, comprised of both licensed acupuncturists and physicians.
if you hold that acupuncture is not a form of medicine complementary to “real/conventional/orthodox medicine”, then perhaps you might update yourself on the “evolutionary continuum”.
it’s not certain how integrative medicine will fare under the newly passed health reform law.
how can  the university of wisconsin teach its students to rely on the scientific method  when part of the university is pushing treatments that fail this method?
our doctors are trained to depend on lab and diagnostic tests, which are not good for early detection.
in 2009, physician lucille marchand saw her integrative medicine work at the uw oncology clinic go from full time to one day a week because of a funding reduction from the hospital.
we are losing sight  of the art of medicine.
cancer patients, for example, may be encouraged to imagine tiny healthy cells overpowering destructive cancer cells in their bodies.
there  isn’t even any controversy over this except on the fringes of the medical  profession, unlike over other cam treatments such as meditation and guided  visualization, the efficacy of which have not been established.
in a town that small, a doctor doesn’t wait until people come  into the office to make observations about their well-being.
the soul of medicine