in this way, wounds can become sterile in three to ten days.
last week researchers claimed that britons had abandoned the idea of vigorous exercise for gentle strolls.
the children, now two years old, are being tested for milk and cat allergies and eczema.
the condition affects up to half of all adolescent girls and women of  reproductive age.
theoretically this can also affect the child's immune system, which  is supported by the results of the scratch-tests."
she believes its use will improve quality of life of patients with fragile bone, preventing them from break and allowing better mobility.
researchers at ulster university, uk, discussed their findings, first  reported in august.
" and cemach chief executive richard congdon said: "the great majority  of babies born to mothers with diabetes these days receive high quality care
introduction to the study of their thermic behaviour.
further study will include immune examinations.
they showed that it was more effective at alleviating pain than acupuncture or heat compression.
studies on the compound have been published in the latin american journals  revista interscience and revista iberoamericana de polimeros.
cochrane  database of systematic reviews 2007, issue 3.
the infants are being separated from their parents because of "routine" policies, experts found.
a total of 145 women took part, half of whom were given the supplement , and half a placebo of soybean oil.
more babies could stay  with their mothers than is now the case and mothers with diabetes should be  encouraged and supported to breastfeed their babies.
the findings, published in the october issue of the international journal  of clinical practice, covered 18 studies.
findings show  that it is suitable for implanting into bones via injection.
"the research suggests that honey seems to be especially indicated  when wounds become infected or fail to close or heal.
in this way, wounds can become sterile  in three to ten days.
today's news week  focuses on boosting vaccination tues april 24th - more than 180 countries  are taking part in world immunisation week this week, it was announced  yesterday.
it is probably even more  useful for healing the wounds left by laparoscopic surgery to remove  cancers.
books on women's health wednesday october 17th, 2007 researchers from australia have found that herbal medicine can be of benefit to women suffering from painful periods (known as primary dysmenorhoea).
- increasing fibre intake and eating low-fat dairy foods could help to protect  against heart disease and stroke, two new reports from sweden have shown.
he said: "falls of a few millimetres in blood pressure and shrinkage of a few centimetres in hip and waist circumference are enough to make a difference to an individual's risk of dying from a cardiovascular disease."
compared with other one-year-olds, the "fish oil" children had "considerably fewer allergic reactions".
the study, reported in the journal of applied physiology, found a significant drop in blood pressure just before volunteers fell asleep.
researchers at ulster university, uk, discussed their findings, first reported in august.
this substance triggers allergic immune responses, and has previously been shown to reduce as omega-3 intake increases.
the compound is made of calcium phosphate enriched with tricalcium  phosphate and porogenic agents such as serum albumin, explains almirall.
in immune tests, it was found that the women who were given fish oil had  less prostaglandin e2 in their blood.
healthy heart controversy fuelled monday october 15th, 2007 two new studies add to the controversy about the best way to keep fit  amidst rising concern about obesity.
they selected 39 trials including a total of 3,475 women.
dr xiaoshu zhu of the university of western sydney, australia and colleagues set out to discover whether chinese herbs are an effective and safe treatment for period pain.
researchers found that two-thirds of babies were fed first with infant formula - mostly because mothers chose it.
researcher dr dominique acolet, cemach director of perinatal epidemiology , said: "babies of mothers with diabetes have more complications than other babies and do need careful monitoring.
the  international journal of clinical practice, vol. 61, october 2007, pp.
using a foaming agent (albumen) produces "macro pores" which  "accelerate the transformation of the synthetic biomaterial into newly  formed bone", the team add.
theoretically this can also affect the child's immune system, which is supported by the results of the scratch-tests."
he explained: "we found that a lot of the variability in these trials
honey: nutritional and medicinal value.
it also made a series of recommendations to boost breast-feeding.
compared with other one-year-olds, the "fish oil" children had  "considerably fewer allergic reactions".
the team  plans to follow the group for many years.
" he says that honey has many properties which may offer protection against  bacterial growth, including gluconic acid which creates an acidic environment,  and hydrogen peroxide.
it is very similar to bone mineral composition and, as a result, it is very useful for tissue engineering - "sowing" cells from the patient in the material, for re-implantation at a later date.
the team used it  to replace tissue after gum cyst removal, which prevented teeth weakening due  to rapid reconstitution of bone.
friday october 19th, 2007 researchers have found that pregnant women who consume fish oil may protect their children against allergies.
canadian researchers analysed the findings of some 23 studies of aspirin  involving more than 113,000 patients.
she said: "one of the main difficulties of medicine at  present is the considerable increase of the pathologies related to bone  problems.
millions of heart patients around the world take a daily aspirin to help  prevent attacks.
omega-3 fats are present in oily fish and have long been associated with  health benefits.
canadian researchers analysed the findings of some 23 studies of aspirin involving more than 113,000 patients.
in this study, dr malin fageras-bottcher and colleagues from  linkoping university, sweden, examined infants whose mothers ingested a fish  oil supplement from the 25th week of pregnancy until the third month of  breastfeeding.
the pain is not due to an underlying medical problem but can have a significant impact on women's lives.
when it is safe to do so, he recommends that honey is applied at regular  intervals, from hourly to twice daily.
more allergic disease reaching  ‘epidemic proportions’ fri april 20th -
" books on diabetes new injectable bone replacement developed monday october 15th, 2007
the most effective use of the treatment was when a study mostly used male patients, according to the research published in the on-line journal bmc medicine -www.biomedcentral.com/bmcmed.
dr zhu said: "all available measures of effectiveness confirmed the overall superiority of chinese herbal medicine to placebo, no treatment, nsaids, acupuncture and heat compression, and, at the same time, there were no indications that it caused any adverse events." zhu, x. et al.
a journal spokesman said: "this reduction in blood pressure may be one  explanation for the lower cardiovascular mortality that some studies have found  among people who habitually take siestas.
they found no proven benefit of aspirin in trials which tested the  treatment largely on women.
analysis suggested that chinese herbal medicine gave "significant improvements in pain relief when compared to pharmaceutical drugs".
previous week's news friday october 19th, 2007 a new review has found considerable support for the use of honey in wound healing.
"the john moores team will next look at blood pressure during the waking portion of the afternoon nap to see if this period may also pose an increased danger of coronary mortality."
more news for the week 19th october 2007
synthesis and characterization of alkyl  cyanoacrylates with adhesive properties.
using a foaming agent (albumen) produces "macro pores" which "accelerate the transformation of the synthetic biomaterial into newly formed bone", the team add.
chinese herbal medicine for primary dysmenorrhoea.
they believe that many women would prefer a non-drug  alternative to their condition, and: "chinese herbal medicine offers new  options for treatment, an individualised approach, and has the potential to  avoid the harshness of drugs and surgery."
researchers found that some babies were suffering simply because they had not been kept warm enough - and in other cases there was no medical reason at all for putting the child in neonatal care.
"now concerns about antibiotic resistance, and a renewed interest in  natural remedies, have prompted a resurgence in the antimicrobial and wound  healing properties of honey.
" books on women's health chinese herbs can beat period pain, review suggests wednesday october 17th, 2007 researchers from australia have found that herbal medicine can be of  benefit to women suffering from painful periods (known as primary dysmenorhoea).
researcher dr mark tully said moderate physical exercise "below the  recommended levels" makes a difference to health.
more aspirin chemical key to anti-cancer medicine?
"nevertheless in the absence of specific risks or complications, every effort should be made to ensure that these babies can be kept with their mothers safely in order for bonding, temperature control and breastfeeding to take place.
when it is safe to do so, he recommends that honey is applied at regular intervals, from hourly to twice daily.
"now concerns about antibiotic resistance, and a renewed interest in natural remedies, have prompted a resurgence in the antimicrobial and wound healing properties of honey.
the research had studied  people undertaking 30 minutes three times a week - in contrast with  recommendations that this is done five times a week.
more hay fever fruit and nut warning tues april 24th -  people with hay fever should check if they suffer reactions to any fruits,  vegetables or nuts, experts warned yesterday.
j epidemiol community health 2007; 61: 778-83 printer friendly page
" books on diabetes monday october 15th, 2007 a new substance has been created to replace damaged bone in diseases such as osteoporosis.
the families were deemed to be at high risk  of allergy and asthma.
the experts said that ensuring babies have contact with mothers after birth  would help to maintain body temperature.
tuesday october 16th, 2007 babies of mothers with diabetes are being put into neonatal cots unnecessarily after birth, according to a new report.
lead researcher dr fasal rauf khan from north west wales nhs trust in bangor, uk, explains: "researchers started to document the wound healing properties of honey in the early 20th century, but the introduction of antibiotics in 1940 temporarily halted its use.
he said: "falls of a few millimetres in blood pressure and shrinkage  of a few centimetres in hip and waist circumference are enough to make a  difference to an individual's risk of dying from a cardiovascular disease."
it also reduced overall symptoms, say the team in the cochrane review.
seems to be due to the gender ratios, supporting the theory that women may be  less responsive to aspirin than men for heart protection.
in this study, dr malin fageras-bottcher and colleagues from linkoping university, sweden, examined infants whose mothers ingested a fish oil supplement from the 25th week of pregnancy until the third month of breastfeeding.
about half of all these admissions could be avoided, according to the confidential enquiry into maternal and child health - cemach.
this substance triggers allergic immune  responses, and has previously been shown to reduce as omega-3 intake increases.
researchers found that some babies were suffering simply because they had  not been kept warm enough - and in other cases there was no medical reason at  all for putting the child in neonatal care.
researcher dr mark tully said moderate physical exercise "below the recommended levels" makes a difference to health.
millions of heart patients around the world take a daily aspirin to help prevent attacks.
last week researchers claimed that britons had abandoned the idea of  vigorous exercise for gentle strolls.
fri april 20th -  breakthrough research into one of the world’s oldest medicines could lead  to new anti-cancer medicines.
keep babies with mums after diabetes tuesday october 16th, 2007 babies of mothers with diabetes are being put into neonatal cots  unnecessarily after birth, according to a new report.
researchers found that two-thirds of babies were fed first with infant formula  - mostly because mothers chose it.
dr zhu said: "all available measures of effectiveness confirmed the  overall superiority of chinese herbal medicine to placebo, no treatment,  nsaids, acupuncture and heat compression, and, at the same time, there were no  indications that it caused any adverse events." zhu, x. et al.
the most effective use of the treatment was when a study mostly used male  patients, according to the research published in the on-line journal bmc  medicine -www.biomedcentral.com/bmcmed.
in immune tests, it was found that the women who were given fish oil had less prostaglandin e2 in their blood.
"the research suggests that honey seems to be especially indicated when wounds become infected or fail to close or heal.
" and cemach chief executive richard congdon said: "the great majority of babies born to mothers with diabetes these days receive high quality care but we did identify a number of problems in our enquiry.
lead researcher dr fasal rauf khan from north west wales nhs trust in  bangor, uk, explains: "researchers started to document the wound healing  properties of honey in the early 20th century, but the introduction of  antibiotics in 1940 temporarily halted its use.
the pain is not due to an underlying medical problem but can  have a significant impact on women's lives.
the report found that most babies receive "high quality care" but greater effort should be made to keep babies with their mothers.
the families were deemed to be at high risk of allergy and asthma.
the researchers analysed trials comparing chinese herbal medicine against  placebo, conventional drugs such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (nsaids),  and other traditional chinese therapies - acupuncture and chinese massage.
researcher dr dominique acolet, cemach director of perinatal epidemiology ,  said: "babies of mothers with diabetes have more complications than other  babies and do need careful monitoring.
amisel almirall leads a team of the biomat centre within the university of  havana, cuba.
dr fageras-bottcher commented: "we have been able to show that  omerga-3 influences the mother's immunological profile in a less inflammatory  direction.
she said: "one of the main difficulties of medicine at present is the considerable increase of the pathologies related to bone problems.
"there are many benefits of early interaction between mother and baby  in general and for these babies as well and hospitals should have policies to  enable this to happen.
omega-3 fats are present in oily fish and have long been associated with health benefits.
a total of 145 women took part, half of whom were given the supplement ,  and half a placebo of soybean oil.
the international journal of clinical practice, vol. 61, october 2007, pp.
the second study, conducted at liverpool john moores university, uk, studied healthy volunteers taking afternoon naps in laboratory conditions.
they had less than half as many reactions to eggs at the age of one year.
analysis  suggested that chinese herbal medicine gave "significant improvements in  pain relief when compared to pharmaceutical drugs".
the condition affects up to half of all adolescent girls and women of reproductive age.
"half the chronic diseases suffered by people over 65 are related to  articulation deficiencies; in addition, the number of bone fractures caused by  osteoporosis and traffic accidents has doubled in the last ten years.
the team plans to follow the group for many years.
those who simply rested awake or stayed standing did not enjoy the same  reduction.
" he says that honey has many properties which may offer protection against bacterial growth, including gluconic acid which creates an acidic environment, and hydrogen peroxide.
balmayor, e. r. et al.
researcher dr don sin, of the james hogg centre, university of british  columbia, said: "from our findings we would caution clinicians on the  prescribing aspirin to women, especially for primary prevention of heart  attacks. "whether or not other pharmaceutical products would be more effective  for women is unclear; more sex-specific studies should now be conducted."
"half the chronic diseases suffered by people over 65 are related to articulation deficiencies; in addition, the number of bone fractures caused by osteoporosis and traffic accidents has doubled in the last ten years.
more healthy foods that protect against heart disease and stroke fri april 20th
books on women's health thursday october 18th, 2007 giving women aspirin for heart disease may do little to protect them, researchers revealed today.
"there are many benefits of early interaction between mother and baby in general and for these babies as well and hospitals should have policies to enable this to happen.
about half of all these admissions could be avoided, according to the  confidential enquiry into maternal and child health - cemach.
the research had studied people undertaking 30 minutes three times a week - in contrast with recommendations that this is done five times a week.
the compound is made of calcium phosphate enriched with tricalcium phosphate and porogenic agents such as serum albumin, explains almirall.
he explained: "we found that a lot of the variability in these trials seems to be due to the gender ratios, supporting the theory that women may be less responsive to aspirin than men for heart protection."
they believe that many women would prefer a non-drug alternative to their condition, and: "chinese herbal medicine offers new options for treatment, an individualised approach, and has the potential to avoid the harshness of drugs and surgery."
now researchers have shown how a brisk walk and even an afternoon nap can help to reduce blood pressure.
new fizzy drink link to stroke mon april 23rd - people who want to  avoid stroke and stay healthy should consider switching from fizzy drinks to  coffee, researchers say.
"it can be used to sterilise infected wounds, speed up healing and impede tumours, particularly in keyhole surgery," he says, adding that honey has also been shown to reduce inflammation and swelling.
the experts said that ensuring babies have contact with mothers after birth would help to maintain body temperature.
"it can be used to sterilise infected wounds, speed  up healing and impede tumours, particularly in keyhole surgery," he says,  adding that honey has also been shown to reduce inflammation and swelling.
the findings, published in the october issue of the international journal of clinical practice, covered 18 studies.
dr fageras-bottcher commented: "we have been able to show that omerga-3 influences the mother's immunological profile in a less inflammatory direction.
they found no proven benefit of aspirin in trials which tested the treatment largely on women.
revista iberoamericana de polimeros, vol, 4, july 2002.
"the john moores team will next look at blood pressure during the  waking portion of the afternoon nap to see if this period may also pose an  increased danger of coronary mortality."
researcher dr don sin, of the james hogg centre, university of british columbia, said: "from our findings we would caution clinicians on the prescribing aspirin to women, especially for primary prevention of heart attacks. "whether or not other pharmaceutical products would be more effective for women is unclear; more sex-specific studies should now be conducted."
the team used it to replace tissue after gum cyst removal, which prevented teeth weakening due to rapid reconstitution of bone.
more this week's  stories
studies on the compound have been published in the latin american journals revista interscience and revista iberoamericana de polimeros.
the report found that most babies receive "high quality care" but  greater effort should be made to keep babies with their mothers.
more babies could stay with their mothers than is now the case and mothers with diabetes should be encouraged and supported to breastfeed their babies.
a new analysis suggests that only men benefit from the common treatment.
the increase in  allergic diseases and asthma is in danger of reaching epidemic proportions,  experts have claimed.
" her work has produced an injectable "macro-porous" cement-like  material called calcium phosphate cement (cpc) to refill bone cavities which  occur due to degenerative diseases such as osteoporosis.
introduction to the study of their  thermic behaviour.
the study, reported in the journal of applied physiology, found a  significant drop in blood pressure just before volunteers fell asleep.
however, dr khan adds that patients should always check with a doctor before applying any substance to post-operative wounds.
synthesis and characterization of alkyl cyanoacrylates with adhesive properties.
findings show that it is suitable for implanting into bones via injection.
the researchers analysed trials comparing chinese herbal medicine against placebo, conventional drugs such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (nsaids), and other traditional chinese therapies - acupuncture and chinese massage.
they had less than half as  many reactions to eggs at the age of one year.
books on women's health aspirin may not help female heart thursday october 18th, 2007 giving women aspirin for heart disease may do little to protect them,  researchers revealed today.
now researchers have shown how a brisk walk and even an afternoon nap can  help to reduce blood pressure.
it is easy to manipulate, sets quickly and is flexible, almirall says.
dr xiaoshu zhu of the university of western sydney, australia and  colleagues set out to discover whether chinese herbs are an effective and safe  treatment for period pain.
monday october 15th, 2007 two new studies add to the controversy about the best way to keep fit amidst rising concern about obesity.
the children, now two years old, are being tested for milk and cat  allergies and eczema.
the second study, conducted at liverpool john moores university, uk,  studied healthy volunteers taking afternoon naps in laboratory conditions.
the team say this is crucial, as egg allergy often predicts later eczema and asthma.
those who simply rested awake or stayed standing did not enjoy the same reduction.
" her work has produced an injectable "macro-porous" cement-like material called calcium phosphate cement (cpc) to refill bone cavities which occur due to degenerative diseases such as osteoporosis.
more smoke heart harm reduction call mon  april 23rd - researchers have come up with ideas for reducing the harm caused  by smoking to the heart, including changes to exercise and diet.
cochrane database of systematic reviews 2007, issue 3.
"nevertheless in the absence of specific risks or complications, every  effort should be made to ensure that these babies can be kept with their  mothers safely in order for bonding, temperature control and breastfeeding to  take place.
amisel almirall leads a team of the biomat centre within the university of havana, cuba.
it is  very similar to bone mineral composition and, as a result, it is very useful  for tissue engineering - "sowing" cells from the patient in the  material, for re-implantation at a later date.
a new substance has been created to replace damaged bone in diseases such  as osteoporosis.
the team say this is crucial, as  egg allergy often predicts later eczema and asthma.
high blood pressure may be a sign of heart disease and can contribute to  stroke and other illnesses.
the infants are being separated from their parents because of  "routine" policies, experts found.
she  believes its use will improve quality of life of patients with fragile bone,  preventing them from break and allowing better mobility.
previous week's news evidence that honey speeds wound healing friday october 19th, 2007 a new review has found considerable support for the use of honey in wound  healing.
they  showed that it was more effective at alleviating pain than acupuncture or heat  compression.
it is probably even more useful for healing the wounds left by laparoscopic surgery to remove cancers.
high blood pressure may be a sign of heart disease and can contribute to stroke and other illnesses.
" "our research suggests that surgeons should seriously consider using  honey for post-operative wounds and offer this to patients," he concludes.
fish oil important during pregnancy friday october 19th, 2007 researchers have found that pregnant women who consume fish oil may protect  their children against allergies.
however, dr khan adds that patients should always check with a doctor  before applying any substance to post-operative wounds.
a journal spokesman said: "this reduction in blood pressure may be one explanation for the lower cardiovascular mortality that some studies have found among people who habitually take siestas.
" "our research suggests that surgeons should seriously consider using honey for post-operative wounds and offer this to patients," he concludes.
but we did identify a number of problems in our enquiry.