the lantern festival marks the end of the new year season.
they also pointed out that attitude changes towards occupational rehabilitation services had created opportunities to expand services in this area.
when the author began working as a case manager many years ago, she was asked to interpret for a chinese family.
china disabled persons' federation.
the mission ofcirrie is to assist rehabilitation researchers and  practitioners in theu.s. to access international expertise.
he uses his sister as outlet for his anger since as he has nowhere else to release his temper.
taiwan taiwanese women have been struggling for their independence and equality  for about 20 years.
her said the period from birth to  age six is critical and determines the extent of physical disability in of  these children (her, 1999).
since his  injury, his younger and only sister sue has been his primary caretaker and  advocate.
therefore, persons born in china may, like other recent immigrants, have difficulty using rehabilitation services in this country.
he also speaks mandarin and is able to  communicate about basic needs in english.
since  china's implementation of the one child per couple policy, however, greater  attention has been given to the mental health of the single child.
be careful not to make stereotypical  assumptions about a consumer who is of chinese heritage.
he is of chinese descent and immigrated to theu.s. in his high school years.
therefore, they may encounter more  difficulties in acculturation than women who originally held the traditional  roles of housewife and mother (liu, 1997).
the informal system of problem solving has minimized the need for formal treatment (kaplan, sobin, & andors, 1979).
the chinese new year is popularly known as the spring  festival because it marks the beginning of spring.
no one in the family wanted to talk  about it, certainly not to people outside of the family.
it is as  important to work with the family, especially the caretaker and main advocate,  as with the consumer himself/herself.
she is very involved in joe's care but often feels a lack of support from social workers and therapists.
days before the new year begins, every family is busy giving the house a thorough cleaning, to sweep away all the ill–fortune there may be in the family and make way for good luck in the new year..
a one–child per family policy has replaced the  traditional extended family system (lee, 1996) and the ten–year cultural  revolution caused many families to suffer forced separation.
this author worked with sun's  parents and located an excellent program for adults and children with visual  impairment.
zhang thought the parents  were the ones who needed change, not the daughter.
if  there is imbalance of the yin and yang, then the immune system of the body is  disturbed and the body is susceptible to illness.
taoism and  buddhism, the most popular religions in china, have some differences between  them but no conflicts (lam, 2000).
in  order to survive and make a better living in a foreign land, chinese immigrants  form many unique communities where they all speak the same language, shop at  chinese supermarkets or stores and have an understanding of each other's  religion, culture, and beliefs.
joe was confused about many referrals his new pcp had made on his behalf.
the asian american health forum (1990) revealed that more than 63 percent of chinese americans are foreign–born, 23 percent do not speak english well, 72.5 percent speak a language other than english at home and 53 percent live in the western united states.
" international labor day (may 1) employees enjoy a paid day off.
the term "canji ren," meaning "handicapped" and "sick people," is also common.
she responded to questions by nodding, shaking her head or making certain sounds.
the chinese are willing to sacrifice for family members.
categories number out of the total population surveyed percentage of the total population surveyed note: table contents were translated and summarized from shanghai books publisher (1994,pp.
many chinese immigrants are  multilingual–fluent in the official language, a local dialect and english  as well.
vocational rehabilitation, which includes vocational guidance and  assessment, vocational training and placement, is one of the major  rehabilitation services available to hong kong residents with disabilities  (lam, 1992).
the informal system of problem solving has minimized the need for formal  treatment (kaplan, sobin, & andors, 1979).
he cannot accept the fact  that due to his memory loss, he has to depend on sue to remind him to do things  and give him advice.
the hospital received many donations that paid for all the expenses of her stay including her medical bills.
according  to the chinese tradition, the oldest son of the family is considered the head  of the household particularly if the father is deceased.
fair lawn, nj: eurasia press.
shanghai, one of the largest and most developed cities in china, has issued in procedures that command state organs, public organizations, enterprises and institutions within the administrative area of the shanghai municipality to allocate 1.6 percent of the average number on their payroll lists for the previous year as jobs for persons with disability.
sick people with fever and/or stomach problems are advised to avoid cold fluid and food.
42,  176–186 yuan, h. (1995).
the chinese may smile when they feel embarrassed or shy, however.
the people's republic of china protection of the disabled  persons' law 12/28/1990
government strategies for achieving that goal include large–scale  privatization of unprofitable state–owned enterprises as well as  downsizing the government bureaucracy (bureau of east asian and pacific affairs u.s. department of state, 2001).
the 1950s saw the development of sheltered workshops, training centers, residential homes and recreational and social clubs for people with physical disabilities, blindness and mental retardation.
they will, however, push and sacrifice for their children.
lam (1992) commended hong kong's long history of rehabilitation services, whose most significant developments have occurred since world warii.
lan's parents left and never returned after seeing her on the  hospital bed after the fire.
incense burning and the eating of special  foods usually occurs on special occasions.
she is reported to be the only survivor of such severe burns in chinese medical history.
available: http://www.geocities.com/cdppat_ustour/cdpf.html.
almost two decades after the founding of the international special olympics committee in 1968, the chinese founded a sports association for the mentally retarded.
when dealing with criticism, lc white americans are more likely to be  direct, upfront and get right to the point.
government strategies for achieving that goal include large–scale privatization of unprofitable state–owned enterprises as well as downsizing the government bureaucracy (bureau of east asian and pacific affairs u.s. department of state, 2001).
because of their educational and  professional backgrounds, however, such women are more susceptible to western  medicine, medical and rehabilitation systems.
schools  rejected, neighbors ignored.
cultural and historical perspectives in counseling blacks.
it is important for american vocational counselors to keep different work incentives in mind when working with immigrants from mainland china.
in the view of this author one of the major reasons that mainland chinese immigrants underuse existing mental health services is that in china people with mental illness are commonly cared for by their families and/or depend on community support rather than institutional care.
accessing family involve family members in the intake and treatment/rehabilitation process.
table 2: published law and  established organizations, foundations, and committees; peoples republic of  china (prc) name start date
there are also "overseas chinese" who emigrate from countries like japan, korea, philippines, singapore, malaysia, thailand, mexico, canada and many other countries in south america and europe.
in lee, c. c. (editor),multicultural issues in counseling: new approaches to diversity.
in addition to vocational training, eden offers professional training, employment assistance, psychological counseling, legal representation, religious services, physical examinations and many other services to people with disabilities (her, 1999).
therefore, persons born in china may, like other  recent immigrants, have difficulty using rehabilitation services in this  country.
therefore, she is  asking for counseling help.
meanwhile, many first–wave laborers left the  mines and railroads and used their savings to start small businesses (lee,  1996).
questions such as  "which part of china did you come from?" or "how long have you  been in theu.s.?" are important to ask because china consists of so many  varieties of linguistic, cultural, political, economics, health and  rehabilitation systems.
promote consumer participation in choice of services.
the housing locator was able to locate a spacious 2–bedroom apartment in the exact area jim requested.
the term  "gong neng zhang ai zhe," meaning "individuals with  disabilities" is rarely used.
it is suggested increasing emphasis on hospital–based and  community–based rehabilitation for the mentally ill in recent years.
this experience taught her a good lesson.
eden offers vocational training to people with disabilities in the moderate to severe range.
guilt might be felt by the individual with a disability towards his or her family or by the family towards the individual with disability, as well as towards ancestors.
part of her responsibilities in these roles has been to develop and translate culturally competent education and outreach materials ontbi for use by rehabilitation professionals, consumers and family.
this author has encountered many women from taiwan who joined their husbands in the u.s. over the past few decades.
this is the biggest and most celebrated festival in china and sections of  east and southeast asia.
although many immigrants have learned some english either formally or through their exposure to it via the media, most are fluent only in their native tongues (hernandez & isaacs, 1998).
in addition, the cultural  values/beliefs can be quite different between first–, second–,  third–, and fourth– generation chinese americans.
they encouraged carol to think of her own needs first, leave her family, live alone and make sure not to let her parents override her wishes.
instead of turkey, the chinese family feasts  on good wine, moon–cakes and other delicacies.
due to the reform in immigration policies, many chinese men returned to their  native land to find wives, who were usually 10–20 years younger than  them.
after dinner, the whole family sits up for the night while having fun playing cards or board games or watchingtv programs dedicated to the occasion.
chronologically, the 1940s were marked by the development of physiotherapy, occupational therapy and prosthetics.
zhang suggested inviting carol's parents to come in for a family session.
after emerging from coma, jim was transferred from the hospital to a local medical center for inpatient rehabilitation.
the  energy in each human being interrelates with the energy of the universe.
tree–planting day (april 1) this day has been highly promoted since the late 70s by the reformist  government but has yet to be firmly established.
he is also eager to help his sister immigrate to theu.s. and was referred to a local chinese agency that handles immigration matters.
sung (1985) found that the language barrier was the problem most commonly cited by the immigrant chinese.
bureau of east asian and pacific affairs.
emotional problems are  understood to be associated with weak character.
chinese people in general are peaceful, hardworking and easily contented.
since then more then 500,000 individuals with mental retardation have participated in mainland china's special olympics (wong, 2000)
later she learned that the family only spoke hakka, a taiwanese  dialect.
it is common for chinese to honor their ancestors, especially during major  holidays like the chinese new year.
the housing locator was able to locate a spacious 2–bedroom apartment  in the exact area jim requested.
unlike the earlier immigrants of humble rural origin, many of the taiwan arrivals came from well–to–do and/or well–educated families and many were students who, upon graduation from american universities, stayed on to work in the united states (pan, 1990).
for instance, mental illness is viewed as being caused by deeds from past  lives or acts against the nature of the universe.
collaborate with existing community organizations and service providers.
this publication of the center for international rehabilitation  research information and exchange is supported by funds received from the  national institute on disability and rehabilitation research of theu.s.  department of education under grant number h133a990010.
home > culture > monographs > chinese culture and disability: information for u.s. service providers gloria zhang liu, m.s. copyright © 2001
it is believed that as many as two million christians  practice their faith in china (compton's living encyclopedia, 1995) and a great  many chinese converted to christianity after immigrating to the united states.
even though he was had been assured of the good intentions of his new doctor  and the purpose of the exams, joe strongly felt that he had been better  informed by his chinese doctor and could trust only her.
so it simply remained  a well–kept family secret for many years.
almost two decades after the  founding of the international special olympics committee in 1968, the chinese  founded a sports association for the mentally retarded.
provide services to families in ways that do not conflict with their  beliefs, customs, and cultural values (omrdd, 1994).
it is more  appropriate to address older consumers and/or family members by "mr. or  mrs." as it can be viewed as disrespectful to address older people by  their first names.
the chinese definition of  mental retardation is similar to that of the american.
u.s. department of state (2001).
accessibility statement
also, due to their accepting and non–confrontational nature, they may  seem to be contented with an arrangement even if they are not.
these societies provide professional consultation to concerned ministries and play a significant role in the evolution of rehabilitation policy.
stillwater, ok: national clearing house of rehabilitation training materials.
china disabled persons federation (cdpf, 2000), based on its 1987 national survey, claims that persons with disabilities comprise 5 percent of the chinese population (63 million).
a first generation immigrant from the people's republic of china, gloria liu holds a master's degree in special education with a major in rehabilitation science from clarion university of pennsylvania.
the goal of this monograph is to provide an introduction to chinese  culture, focusing on information that may help rehabilitation service providers  to better serve this population.
craving is  believed to be the cause of all sufferings.
since rehabilitation counselors may be viewed as authority figures and chinese culture emphasizes controlling one's emotions, it may be very difficult for chinese consumers to initiate conversations (chan, lam, wong, leung, & fang, 1988).
the law changed in 1930 to allowed wives of chinese merchants and  chinese women married to american citizens before 1924 to immigrate to the  united states.
she  responded to questions by nodding, shaking her head or making certain sounds.
deng xiao ping and his supporters placed top  priority on the opening of its economic market.
boulder,co: westview press.
the opinions contained  in this publication are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect  those ofcirrie or the u.s. department of education.
jim is geared to moving back to the community and back to work so he can help support his mother financially.
lan's parents left and never returned after seeing her on the hospital bed after the fire.
chinese are brought up to remain an integral  part of their families throughout their lives, instead of being trained to  function independently (bond, 1986).
a significant number of them were survivors of hunger, rape, incarceration, forced migration and torture.
joe, on the other hand, is very frustrated about his dependence on his younger sister.
he selected that neighborhood was because his uncle and aunt resided there.
in china, that kind of assertiveness is considered aggressive and immoral.
taiwan copper (1999) maintains that social welfare has had a deep impact on  taiwan's society and culture.
it is essential, therefore, to educate the chinese consumer and family about the nature and/or cause of the disability as well as about treatment methods and available services.
vegetables are frequently mixed with meat to maintain the balance ofyin and yang.
coping style and personal responsibility as factors in the perception of individuals with physical disabilities by chinese international students.
the psychology of the chinese people.
any health care professional  seeking chinese interpreter(s) should first , find out what dialect(s) the  consumer and/or family speak.
for many chinese, asking "did you eat?" or "where are you heading?" is a way of greeting or starting a conversation, as when americans say "how are you today?
medical workers in these clinics receive much the same basic training as barefoot doctors of the cultural revolution era.
acknowledge culture as a predominant force in shaping behaviors.
when dealing with criticism, lc white americans are more likely to be direct, upfront and get right to the point.
due to language barriers and lack of  socialization they often lack knowledge of theu.s. social and medical system  and tend to depend on their husbands or children to maneuver through the  rehabilitation system.
it tells a sad story of a nine–year old chinese boy, ning li, who acquiredaids from a blood transfusion, received for a broken arm in 1996.
they are  likely to experience from their chinese consumers different expectations of and  different requirements for job placement.
chinese in general communicate less directly and less explicitly and their communication often relies on body movements, facial expressions, eye messages and other non–verbal signals (engholm, 1994).
the penalties collected by the respective local  government are used to implement welfare programs such as vocational training  and employment assistance and to reward companies that employ more people with  disabilities than required by the legal quota.
in the economic sphere, more and more women maintain jobs after they are married.
in some cases,  mental illness is blamed on evil spirits or punishment from god(s).
be aware of interpersonal skills and non–verbal communication cues ( omrdd, 1994).
in addition to vocational training, eden  offers professional training, employment assistance, psychological counseling,  legal representation, religious services, physical examinations and many other  services to people with disabilities (her, 1999).
the majority of women who join their husbands in the u.s. are well educated and employed in respectable professions in china.
this author believes that cross–cultural analysis of this kind will help american rehabilitation providers appreciate and understand the chinese culture and rehabilitation system.
the author joins me in acknowledging and thanking fong chan, ph.d.  professor and area chair, rehabilitation psychology program, university of  wisconsin-madison, deborah chen,ph.d., professor, department of special  education california state university, northridge and jen–liang hwang, a  doctoral student in rehabilitation science at the university at buffalo, state  university of new york, all of whom reviewed the manuscript and provided  valuable suggestions for strengthening it.
the same section of the  previously mentionedworld journal for instance, there was an article  about a 29–year–old lady, lan mao, who has been loved by numerous  health care professionals and strangers despite her severe disabilities.
there used to be grand parades at famous squares in major cities, the  largest and most famous of which was the tiananmen square parade.
role of religion china is a multi–religious country.
the client– centered approach used by many rehabilitation counselors in the united states may create discomfort and confusion for some chinese consumers since this approach lacks the structure that they may expect and are used to.
" the united states is a low–context (lc) culture.
she commented that the social worker at the  hospital told her to apply for benefits and services on her own, saying,  "you speak english very well.
" chinese people are often shy, especially in an unfamiliar environment  (chin, 1996).
she had never wanted to live there and she felt that as the head of the household, she had been left out of the picture.
a large number of urban citizens visit parks as a family to celebrate.
these women are usually unable to resume their professions in theu.s. due to language and cultural barriers, and/or immigration status.
parents are the highest authority in the family.
this means  more than 95 percent of the mentally ill are unable to be admitted to the  hospital, which is why so most are taken care of by their families.
he speaks cantonese andchao shang  dialect with his sister at home but also speaks english fairly well.
each of these communities has advocacy groups,  churches/temples, and non–profit organizations that address immigration,  legal, medical, educational, disability, vocational, and many other needs.
in many areas of china disability is viewed as a punishment for the disabled person's parental or past–life sins.
since english is the official language in hong kong,  it may be easier for hong kong immigrants to understand and maneuver through  the american rehabilitation system than for newcomers from mainland china  and/or taiwan.
the plan was for jim to move with his mother into a two–bedroom apartment.
these feelings often create conflicts and barriers to for acceptance among family members (lam, 1992).
now the big event of dragon boat contest is a legacy of such activity.
this doctor has limited knowledge about the identification, treatment and resources fortbi, however, joe's service coordinator thought that joe would be better served by a doctor who specializes in working with individuals withtbi.
therefore, recently immigrated chinese parents of children with disabilities may be very skeptical about the inclusion concept.
needham heights,ma: allyn & bacon.
national help the disabled day  5/19/1991
while older– and middle–generation chinese still maintain some traditional beliefs and practices, the younger generation has tended to reject conservatism and traditionalism (lee, 1996).
for  instance, to most americans, smiling generally means agreement, a positive  reaction and liking.
asian american health forum.
usual diet the northern chinese favor wheat and flour products while southerners  prefer rice and noodles.
students usually give teachers cards with personal  expressions to thank them for their hard work.
stillwater, ok: national clearing house  of rehabilitation training materials.
lam (1992) described shame and guilt as a complicated mix in the family of  the disabled.
her (1999, p. 36) noted that "the traditional view in taiwan is that disabled people are the way they are because they did something bad in their previous lives, and that they therefore deserve their afflictions."
the  friend would say to the author "why is mei so nosey?
the chinese value modesty, reserved behavior and humility.
hot beverages are preferred due to belief that cold water shocks the system (chin, 1996).
languages differ among the cultural groups and  within the cultural groups.
in order to survive and make a better living in a foreign land, chinese immigrants form many unique communities where they all speak the same language, shop at chinese supermarkets or stores and have an understanding of each other's religion, culture, and beliefs.
epilepsy, "yang  dian feng," translates as "shaking of the lamb" in chinese.
jim is determined to go back to work and has stated that if returning home with his mother means adding to her burden, he would rather remain in the nursing home for the rest of his life.
this case illustrates several lessons that should be kept in mind when providing services to consumers born in china: confucian philosophy advocates that individuals put group needs above personal needs.
those who participate in these vocational training program not only receive intensive professional training free of charge, but can also apply for a monthly living subsidy of aboutu.s. $400.
culture has a very  strong impact upon our understanding of disability and of the goals and  processes of rehabilitation.
she even asked whether they were actually  chinese.
in general, disability is viewed as something shameful  – and a skeleton in the closet.
in d.w. sue (editor),counseling the culturally different: theory  and practice (pp. 141–185).
the first official "national help the disabled day" was  written into the people's republic of china disabled protection law to launch  comprehensive activities that help people with disabilities.
the rehabilitation program plan developed by the rdcc presents a  comprehensive picture of current rehabilitation services in hong kong and  projects development needs a decade in advance.
for instance, in mainland china, massage,tai chi, chi gong, magnetic treatment and acupuncture are part of physical therapy.
lantern exhibits, lion and dragon dances, and eatingtang yuan (ball–shaped boiled sweet sticky rice dumplings with delicious fillings) mark this day.
craving is believed to be the cause of all sufferings.
china's education law of 1986 made it obligatory to provide special education for individuals with mental retardation (chen, 1995).
the new chinese  leadership has identified reform of state industries as a government priority.
following the passage of this act, chinese immigration reached its peak (pan, 1990).
ting, h. & fitzgerald, m.h. (1996).
this happened in a small town in twenty first century mainland china.
immediately after his diagnosis, ning li was terminated from his  school and to date no school will accept him due to the nature of his illness.
lee (1996) believes that the community association model provides  the psychological services of an extended family to many chinese immigrants.
doing business in asia's booming "china  triangle".
this originates from a beautiful legend about a cow herder and a fairy who were cruelly separated but reunite once each year, making this a happy and sad occasion.
chinese people are generally more accepting and  sympathetic toward anacquired injury that causes physical limitations  than toward a congenital physical or mental disorder.
there is a traditional saying among the chinese: "eat well in the morning,  eat full at noon and eat well in the evening.
such concepts, then are not new to recently immigrated  chinese consumers and families.
these women are usually  unable to resume their professions in theu.s. due to language and cultural  barriers, and/or immigration status.
if the client feared that her parents would not tolerate having an "outsider" involved in this family matter, zhang suggested inviting the client's relatives or friends to come in and discuss intervention strategies they could use to help the parents come to terms of the difficulties they have caused their daughter.
culturally appropriate intervention strategies.
the new year season extends from the mid–twelfth month of the previous year to the middle of the first month of the new year.
this demonstrates how the chinese  used to view disability.
since respect for the  elders and filial piety are so important, it would be wise for rehabilitation  professionals to establish a working relationship with parents or significant  extended family members.
the ratio of white–collar to blue–collar women is about one to one.
most of these students and scholars came from prestigious universities  in china.
acknowledge that cultural differences can have an impact on service  delivery.
jim's only sister was not granted  immigration status and therefore, still resides in guang dong (canton), china.
available: http://www.index–china.com/index–english/people–religions–s.html lee, e. (1996).
you can do all this."
interpreters can help with this issue but greater success maybe ensured if the service provider bears in mind the recommendations listed below.
job placement helps individuals with disabilities find suitable employment.
eden, founded in 1982, was the first organization to provide the disabled  in taiwan with vocational training.
since english is the official language in hong kong, it may be easier for hong kong immigrants to understand and maneuver through the american rehabilitation system than for newcomers from mainland china and/or taiwan.
they include people from  mainland china, taiwan, hong kong and other southeast asian countries, and are  characterized by significant linguistic, social, economic and political  differences (chan, 1998).
and "where are you going" every time she saw her.
a growing number of women, however, have become entrepreneurs.
consequently from 1943 to the repeal of the quota law in 1965, most  chinese immigrants were female (lee, 1996).
(celebrated in the mainland china) employees enjoy a paid day off and families visit each other.
outside the mainland, hong kong and taiwan underwent rapid growth in light industries and exports after world warii.
she stressed that she wanted to live only in a chinese neighborhood where she would be able to communicate since she does not speak a word of english.
chen (1995) found that in mainland china, state–run inpatient services for the mentally ill have about 140,000 psychiatric beds available in 800 psychiatric institutions, or 1.17 beds for every 10,000 chinese.
in addition to the monograph  series,cirrie conducts workshops on providing rehabilitation services to  foreign-born persons.
the new chinese leadership has identified reform of state industries as a government priority.
hire mandarin/cantonese speaking staff directly from the communities in  need.
some foods are  used to treat illness or disease (chin, 1996).
she has also worked to establish support networks for consumers and  their families from ethnically and culturally diverse communities.
these  activities have given ms. liu a keen insight into the difficulties in bridging  the cultural gap between the rehabilitation service provider and persons from  china, as well as strategies for overcoming these difficulties.
she even asked whether they were actually chinese.
unlike ning li, lan was born in beijing, the capital city of mainland china, where she lives today.
in order to facilitate lan's independent living in  the community, her hospital assisted her in selecting a "new home."
sue & sue (1999) believe  that asian americans, african americans, hispanics, american indians and some  other minority groups in the united states emphasize high–context (hc)  cues.
the china disabled persons federation was established in 1988.
if approached in a positive, informative and sensitive way, they will be very supportive and involved in the treatment and/or rehabilitation process.
eden  makes an effort to change public perception of people with disabilities through  publications (including books, short promotional films, videotapes,tv and radio  programs) and outreach activities.
moreover, chinese–americans tend to view counselors as authorities and expect them to help or simply solve their problems for them as opposed to offering empathy and nurturance through the counseling experience.
for instance, mainland china, a  communist country that went through ten years of cultural revolution and many  other socialist movements, has adopted many aspects of the western  medical/rehabilitation system and it has aggressively developed its own system  over the past two decades.
dong, t. (2000, july 2).
misunderstanding of or lack of knowledge about a specific disability or illness can cause a tremendous amount of fear, hostility, alienation and blame.
be sensitive and understanding of the consumers' needs and be respectful  of their choices.
the scope of care includes diagnosis, examinations, tests, consulting, surgery, drugs, supplies/devices, treatment, nursing care,etc.
prior to that, little attention or assistance was  given to those with disabilities (ong, 1993).
theother taiwan – 1945 to the present.
the purpose of this monograph is to present the unique  cultural backgrounds, sub–cultures, religions, socio–cultural  milieu and rehabilitation systems in mainland china, taiwan and hong kong and  compare the practice and delivery of rehabilitation services in china and the  united states.
outside the mainland, hong kong and taiwan underwent rapid growth in light  industries and exports after world warii.
when jim's mother learned about this, however,  she was very upset.
this  author has encountered many women from taiwan who joined their husbands in the u.s. over the past few decades.
shame towards the outside world is would be felt by the family  (especially the head of the family) as well as by the disabled persons  themselves.
chinese americans formed churches/temples within their communities, where they worship in english or chinese, depending n preference.
encyclopedia of  china today.
those who came here independently to pursue higher  education are much savvier.
available:  http://acc6.its.brooklyn.cuny.edu/~phalsall/texts/chinrelg.html her, k. (1999).
explore services within the family's ethnic community.
individuals with disabilities also can apply for a "handicappedid" that entitles them to available social welfare and health services.
the roles of members of a chinese family are highly interdependent (ong, 1993).
profile: hong kong topic data population: 5.8 million religions: buddhism,  taoism, christianity and small numbers of moslems, hindus, jews and sikhs languages: english and cantonese, although mandarin is on the increase size: approximately the size of new york city (engholm, 1994, p. 26)
she lost her hands, her hair, many facial features and will never be  able to stand.
the chinese value  modesty, reserved behavior and humility.
seeking help, such as social welfare and  benefits from the government, can be very intimidating.
though taking the time up front maybe difficult for the provider(s) and may even cause conflict with some agencies' policies, the knowledge and understanding that follows will help the provider build a trusting and helping relationship with the individual or family and make more effective services provision possible.
simplify process and protocols (omrdd, 1994) acknowledgement
role of community confucian philosophy advocates that individuals put group needs above  personal needs.
no part of this publication may be reproduced or distributed an any form or by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system without the prior written permission of the publisher, except as permitted under the united states copyright act of 1976.
42, 176–186 yuan, h. (1995).
in addition, the bureau of national health insurance (bnhi) offers attractive commissions to medical teams willing to serve in remote regions with scarce health resources (national health insurance profile, 1999).
it is considered extremely shameful for an older brother  to depend on his younger sister for a living and for advice.
with the establishment of the "one couple, one child" policy, this day is emphasized more than ever before.
this day has been highly promoted since the late 70s by the reformist government but has yet to be firmly established.
he selected that neighborhood was because  his uncle and aunt resided there.
a state–owned institution that provides rehabilitation and  social services to people with disabilities, carries out scientific research,  offers training, conducts information exchange and serves as a technical  resource.
lc cultures place emphasis on the verbal part of the communication (hall, 1976, sue & sue, 1999).lc cultures are associated with opportunism, being more individual–than group–oriented and greater focused on rules of law and procedures (smith, 1981, sue & sue, 1999).
christianity arrived in china with jesuit missionaries in the early seventeenth century.
in order to discourage discriminatory practices imposed on people with disabilities, a law passed in 1990 calls for state–run enterprises to hire at least one individual with a disability for every fifty employees and for private companies to hire one for every one hundred employees.
in spite of the large numbers of chinese in the u.s., most americans have a very limited knowledge of chinese language and culture.
a high–context (hc) communication emphasizes the physical or social context of the situation and relies heavily on nonverbal cues and identification or understanding shared by the communicators.
it is common for chinese to honor their ancestors, especially during major holidays like the chinese new year.
she (1994,p. 108) defined rehabilitation as comprehensively and appropriately utilizing medical, social,  educational, vocational and other measures to train and re–train  individuals with disabilities in order to reduce the consequences caused by the  factors of disabilities, to improve their functions and abilities, therefore,  for them to integrate into the society with equal rights, value and dignity as  human beings.
the stigma attached to disability may generate the family's fear of  exposure to criticism and disgrace.
it tells people that life is suffering.
any health care professional seeking chinese interpreter(s) should first , find out what dialect(s) the consumer and/or family speak.
as a result, sizable family units with second–generation,  american–born chinese people began to come together in  "chinatowns."
sun was transferred to this program and appeared to be happier as  she was more comfortable with the environment and was able to engage in  activities designed for the blind.
she would then dance a breathtaking dance.
joe and his sister fight all the time but are inseparable.
because of their educational and professional backgrounds, however, such women are more susceptible to western medicine, medical and rehabilitation systems.
yang foods include meats, eggs, hot fluids and oily and fried foods.
since the law on mandatory  employment began to be enforced, some 20,000 job opportunities annually have  been extended to people with disabilities (her, 1999).
the increase in the percentage of college–educated women is greater than that of men (seven percent versus five percent).
kaplan, f. m., sobin, j. m., & andors, s. (1979).
the housing  locator also started working with chinese brokers and landlords in chinese  communities.
the majority of women who join their husbands in the u.s. are well educated  and employed in respectable professions in china.
a nine–year–old boy, ning li's  miserable world.
organizations that fail to comply face a fine equal to the minimum monthly wage  of 487 american dollars.
table 1: 1987 census (sample was 1.5/1000 of the entire population)
some foods are used to treat illness or disease (chin, 1996).
available:  http://www.geocities.com/cdppat_ustour/cdpf.html.
carol, 29 years of age, blames herself for her family's tension and  dissension.
kids of all ages dress in their best and enjoy all kinds  of entertainment in places such as movie theatres, parks, children's museums  and palaces, which are open to them for free.
to zhang, it would be extremely selfish for carol to leave when her family is in such need of her.
students usually give teachers cards with personal expressions to thank them for their hard work.
the contrasting concepts of the western individualistic (i.e., independent) versus the chinese collectivistic (i.e., interdependent) orientations have a strong impact on providing rehabilitation services to chinese–americans with disabilities.
jacob chen, chief executive officer of the eden social  welfare foundation, points out that if children with mental retardation can  receive early treatment before the age of three, the benefits to them will be  ten times greater than with later treatment.
sun has been attending the special program ever since.
this event is regarded as the beginning of the red army (later the people's liberation army).
it is the means by which we think, learn, and express ourselves.
understand the consumer's family structure and work around it.
then the family sets out to offer greetings to their relatives and neighbors.
mobility/travel training is  provided to individuals with visual impairment.
if it is impossible to find providers who speak their native  language, work through translators/interpreters.
she has also worked to establish support networks for consumers and their families from ethnically and culturally diverse communities.
they include people from mainland china, taiwan, hong kong and other southeast asian countries, and are characterized by significant linguistic, social, economic and political differences (chan, 1998).
guilt might be felt by the individual with  a disability towards his or her family or by the family towards the individual  with disability, as well as towards ancestors.
families with asian roots.
all this has helped create favorable conditions for the continued development of mental rehabilitation in china.
in lynch, e.w., & hanson, m.j. (editors),developing cross–cultural competence.
language is the conduit through which we  interact with other people.
hospitalized for 27 years, lan mao is finally discharged.
chinese holidays and festivals.
the rehabilitation program plan developed by the rdcc presents a comprehensive picture of current rehabilitation services in hong kong and projects development needs a decade in advance.
these women tend to adapt to american society quickly and successfully.
the parents may fear that their children cannot receive an appropriate education or get the attention they need in "regular" classroom/school settings.
the state  council's disability coordination committee 4/19/1993 to enhance the leadership  of the disability undertaking and further develop unique chinese  characteristics within the disability rehabilitation movement.
more than 350,000 people hold major illness/injury certificates that exempt them from co–payments.
the calendar the chinese traditional holidays follow is organized according to a unique lunar–solar system, different from the western calendar.
a communist–led army staged the first armed uprising in chinese  communist history against the nationalists on august 1, 1927.
available: http://www.chinatoday.com.
hernandez & isaacs (1988) pointed out that members of an immigrant family settling into a new community will learn english at different rates, so there might be many levels of english fluency within a family.
new jersey: prentice hall.
available: http://www.census.gov. wang, m–h, chan, f., thomas, k.r., lin, s–h & larson, p. (1997).
for example, in vocational rehabilitation, four steps are followed: while vocational assessment, vocational guidance and vocational training systems in china are similar to those in the american system, job placement works very differently.
hong kong, a british colony for 99 years and a special administrative region of china today, has a very advanced rehabilitation system.
social welfare programs used to aim at groups  considered vital to maintaining political stability.
the new year season extends  from the mid–twelfth month of the previous year to the middle of the  first month of the new year.
joe worked in the food service industry prior to his injury and is extremely eager to resume work.
the china disabled person's federation consequently set  up the rehabilitation research association for people with mental retardation  and a number of other societies have been formed under the auspices of the  chinese medical association.
sun was able to understand cantonese, which was the only language that her parents spoke, and a few words in english.
she had never wanted to live there and she felt that as the  head of the household, she had been left out of the picture.
encyclopedia of china today.
although shame and guilt are often associated with disabilities in chinese  culture, as in american culture, chung (1996) pointed out that the eastern  system focuses on thecause of illness, that is, why it happened,  whereas in the west, the focus is usually on thesolution to treatment  for the disease.
the first child mental health research center was established in nanjing in 1984 (bond, 1986).
it is always helpful for providers to take the time to learn as much as possible about the family's unique cultural and linguistic backgrounds.
in addition to the development of laws, organizations and rehabilitation  services for persons with disabilities, china has made a great effort to  promote sports among people with disabilities.
in summary, as lee (1996, p. 252) points out, "the influx of  immigrants and refugees from many different parts of asia and from many  different socioeconomic and political backgrounds has contributed to the  complexity of existing chinese american communities.
because he is so eager to be gainfully  employed, he tends to put considerations of all his cognitive, medical and  physical limitations aside.
they  will, however, push and sacrifice for their children.
conduct meetings that involve the family,  especially the older generation.
deng xiao ping and his supporters placed top priority on the opening of its economic market.
shanghai, one of the largest and most developed cities in china, has issued  in procedures that command state organs, public organizations, enterprises and  institutions within the administrative area of the shanghai municipality to  allocate 1.6 percent of the average number on their payroll lists for the  previous year as jobs for persons with disability.
" employees enjoy a paid day off.
introduction the 2000 census shows the chinese to be the largest single group of asians  in america and that asians and pacific islanders represent four percent of the u.s. population (u.s. bureau of census, 2000).
be aware of differences in cultural beliefs, traditions, religions and  values.
americans view eye contact as an  indication of mutual understanding and trust.
wang, chan, thomas, lin & larson (1997) summarized chan and colleagues'  1984 and 1988 study findings that chinese participants were more positive  toward people with physical disabilities than toward people with developmental  disabilities and mental disorders but that chinese students were less positive  in their attitudes toward people with physical or mental disabilities than  their american counterparts.
the family is also an important economic unit.
social welfare programs used to aim at groups considered vital to maintaining political stability.
organizations that fail to comply face a fine equal to the minimum monthly wage of 487 american dollars.
vocational rehabilitation, which includes vocational guidance and assessment, vocational training and placement, is one of the major rehabilitation services available to hong kong residents with disabilities (lam, 1992).
medical workers in these  clinics receive much the same basic training as barefoot doctors of the  cultural revolution era.
chinese may have completely different meanings for nonverbal expressions than americans.
(1994).encyclopedia of practical help for individuals with  disabilities–the dedication of love.
early chinese immigrants lived in a virtually womanless world without  family life (lee, 1996).
it is noteworthy thatnhi
it marks the beginning of the annual campaign for a "green nation.
there is a traditional saying among the chinese: "eat well in the morning, eat full at noon and eat well in the evening.
holidays (celebrated in the mainland china)
shanghai cishu chu ban
there used to be grand parades at famous squares in major cities, the largest and most famous of which was the tiananmen square parade.
there also is a new requirement for the construction of accessible facilities for people with disabilities (her, 1999).
people still eat rice  dumplings wrapped in bamboo–leaves on that day.
the growth in the number of women civilian officials is also quite remarkable.
most of the chinese immigrants who arrived under the immigration act of 1965 came as families.
one of the few providers with whom he relates well is  his primary care physician (pcp), a chinese doctor in chinatown.
taiwanese students have been settling in theu.s. using the quota since the 1960's.
table 3: communication style differences (overt activity  dimension–nonverbal/verbal) asian americans whites blacks speak softly speak  loud/fast to control listener speak with affect avoidance of eye contact  when listening or speaking to older or high–status persons greater eye  contact when listening or speaking direct eye contact (prolonged) when  speaking, but less when listening interject less/seldom offer verbal or  non–verbal cues to encourage communication head nods, nonverbal markers  interrupt (turn–taking) when possible mild delay in response time  quick response quicker response low–key, indirect communication  objective, task oriented communication affective, emotional, interpersonal  communication note: adapted from "counseling the culturally different: theory and  practice" (third edition,p. 89) by d.w. sue & d. due, 1999.
like the development of special education, the development of  rehabilitation also started in china in the 80's.
zhang suggested inviting carol's parents to  come in for a family session.
besides language barriers, chinese and americans differ in their styles of communication.
interpreters can help  with this issue but greater success maybe ensured if the service provider bears  in mind the recommendations listed below.
while it is important for american professionals to have knowledge of the chinese traditional values and family structure, it is also important for us to recognize that economic and political changes in mainland china, taiwan, and hong kong have had a dramatic impact on chinese family system and values.
her (1999) estimates that the number of taiwan's children with mental retardation is 158,000.
jim was born in  mainland china and immigrated to the united states with his parents in 1997.
in some cases, mental illness is blamed on evil spirits or punishment from god(s).
available: http://www.state.gov/p/eap/. chan, s. (1998).
joe lost all his former friends after his injury but he has been visiting  chinatown on a daily basis and has formed some new "tea friends,"  friends with whom he drinks tea and chats.
they may also fear that their children will be stigmatized and laughed at by "normal" american children.
[shanghai books publisher.
now  celebrations usually take the form of parties in amusement parks by day and  fire–works and grand television programs at night.
based on dao de jin, taoism promotes the  belief that a person will gain power and strength if he/she behaves in harmony  with the nature of universe and will suffer later in life if he/she acts  against the nature of the universe (lam, 2000).
lee (1996) emphasizes that as a result of the social, political and  economic changes described above, there is no one "typical" chinese  family.
jim is geared to moving back to the community and back  to work so he can help support his mother financially.
when jim's mother learned about this, however, she was very upset.
population of people with disabilities (mainland
buddhism was introduced to china from india.
the neighbor's house is still empty because nobody will purchase it.
as a result, joe often yells at sue, "i don't need you telling me what to do!"
there were 19 categories in the census, which sampled 369,448  households, a total of 1,579,316 individuals.
joe's main focus is to get a job.
for the chinese, looking a superior or an elderly person directly in the eye indicates disobedience and threat.
under the work program for disabled persons, the government provides income tax relief to any enterprise in which 35 percent of the employees are disabled (chen, 1995).
if approached in a positive,  informative and sensitive way, they will be very supportive and involved in the  treatment and/or rehabilitation process.
we hope that this monograph will be useful to you in your work with persons born in china.
the first two medical rehabilitation centers in hong kong opened in 1962 and 1963.
such concepts, then are not new to recently immigrated chinese consumers and families.
advice for medical, social and rehabilitation personnel: avoid scheduling any  meetings and/or appointments during this holiday season,i.e., a couple of days  before and a few days after the spring festival.
i am italian, alright, but that doesn't mean i eat ten times a day.
language is the conduit through which we interact with other people.
her  mother feels overburdened and ineffective.
it is a  complex, fascinating story of change, adaptation, and survival that reveals how  the chinese family system is affected by the immense power of political, legal,  socialand economic forces (lee, 1996).
food beliefs and rituals food is viewed as important in maintaining balance of yin (cold) and yang  (hot) in the body.
during and several days following the new year's day, people visit each other and exchange gifts.
as a result, sizable family units with second–generation, american–born chinese people began to come together in "chinatowns."
to overcome happiness, one must overcome craving, desire, or endless wanting, hatred and complaints.
the eve of the new year is very carefully observed.
your consumer may want remain with a doctor with whom he or she feels  comfortable and who speaks the same language even if that doctor is not be the  expert you prefer.
combining educational, social and vocational rehabilitation, crrc established a comprehensive medical rehabilitation system that integrates western medicine and traditional chinese medicine, emergency care, early recovery and long term care.
in lipson, j., dibble, s., & minarik, p. (editors),culture and nursing care: a pocket guide (pp.
if a consumer's parents or other older relatives are  participating in a conversation or meeting with a rehabilitation counselor, it  is extremely important to give the older family members equal attention while  discussing the care of the younger family member.
yamashiro & matsuoka (1997) found that asian americans significantly underuse formal mental health services, a fact they attribute to a mismatch of cultural perspectives and language barriers.
in mainland china, every large building complex or neighborhood has committees or associations formed by voluntary or selected residents – mostly retired residents or housewives – that address residents' family, environmental, recreational and other needs and issues.
this author uses the word "china" to refer to mainland china, hong kong and taiwan.
meat usually is not eaten in large quantities and beef  is cooked until well done.
currently, china, including  hong kong and taiwan, is one of the principal countries of origin of immigrants  to theu.s.
when he first came to theu.s., jim had several jobs, such as waiting tables in  chinese restaurants and delivering newspapers for a chinese newspaper company  in new york city.
ting & fitzgerald (1996) found some increases in awareness and knowledge of occupational health and rehabilitation matters by legislative councilors, district board members, labor union members, and employees.
in july, 1998, one year after he came to the u.s., jim's truck was struck  by another truck and he sustained traumatic brain injury (tbi) as well as  physical disabilities.
child care, child protection services, campaigns against drug  abuse, services for the disabled and low–cost housing are just some of  the services made available by these laws (copper, 1999).
the opinions contained in this publication are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect those ofcirrie or the u.s. department of education.
the reunification of china, and hong kong and  macao at the end of the twentiethth century also strengthened china.
we welcome your comments that will enable us to deepen our understanding of ways to increase the effectiveness of rehabilitation services for persons born in other countries.
provide bilingual services.
special thanks to her family anddr.
when encountering health  problems, many religious people, especially those from rural areas where  medical resources are not readily available or sufficient will visit temples or  taoist priest houses to pray, worship or perform rituals in order to find out  the cause of and/or the solutions to their diseases or disabilities.
china rehabilitation research  center (crrc), a state owned institution, was established in 1988.
more romantic than  thanksgiving, the whole family feasts under the fullest and brightest moon of  the year.
supper is a feast, with all family members together.
the forces of industrialization  westernization, urbanization, and economic affluence brought a change in their  social and family structures.
as every school child knows, china is the most populous nation on our planet.
carol, 29 years of age, blames herself for her family's tension and dissension.
[shanghai  books publisher.
it was not until 1988 that the government finally abolished these restrictions and opened the door for people with disabilities to pursue advanced education.
since 1979, when  its "open door policy" was established, it has been engaged in an  effort to reform its economy.
the penalties collected by the respective local government are used to implement welfare programs such as vocational training and employment assistance and to reward companies that employ more people with disabilities than required by the legal quota.
for instance, grief or having temper tantrums during pregnancy is perceived to possibly cause the mother to lose her baby or to produce a baby with disabilities.
the china fund for the disabled was not established until 1984.
tidying up ancestor's tombs is its major event.
san diego, san diego state university.
be aware that married women from mainland china generally  carry their maiden names.
i am italian, alright, but that doesn't mean i eat ten times a day."
subsequently a rehabilitation development coordinating committee ( rdcc) was appointed by the governor to advise the overall development of rehabilitation services and policies.
kids of all ages dress in their best and enjoy all kinds of entertainment in places such as movie theatres, parks, children's museums and palaces, which are open to them for free.
she commented that the social worker at the hospital told her to apply for benefits and services on her own, saying, "you speak english very well.
days before the new year begins, every family is busy giving the house a  thorough cleaning, to sweep away all the ill–fortune there may be in the  family and make way for good luck in the new year..
shame towards the outside world is would be felt by the family (especially the head of the family) as well as by the disabled persons themselves.
children with mental disabilities, hearing/language impairment and visual impairment receive special education in special schools, such as schools for the mentally retarded, schools for the mute and deaf, and schools for the blind.
he does not trust or like most of  his service providers.
if the earlier policy aimed to freeze the country's ethnic balance, the 1965 act assigned a flat annual quota of 20 thousand immigrant visas to every country outside the western hemisphere.
the friend would say to the author "why is mei so nosey?
christianity arrived in china with jesuit missionaries in the early  seventeenth century.
prevalence rates derived  from the united states and other western countries, coupled with the reluctance  of the chinese to report such cases, suggests that the total population of  people with disabilities is closer to 437,569 or 7.5 percent of the total  population of hong kong (lam, 1992).
lan's face remains severely maimed even after numerous reconstructive surgeries.
jim's only sister was not granted immigration status and therefore, still resides in guang dong (canton), china.
in addition to the development of laws, organizations and rehabilitation services for persons with disabilities, china has made a great effort to promote sports among people with disabilities.
halsall, paul (1999).
in general, disability is viewed as something shameful – and a skeleton in the closet.
shanghai, china: shanghai books publisher.]
china in the twenty first century is stronger than ever.
buddhism is a man–centered religion, not god–centered.
statistics indicate that their status has improved impressively.
he speaks cantonese andchao shang dialect with his sister at home but also speaks english fairly well.
the energy in each human being interrelates with the energy of the universe.
individuals with disabilities also can apply for a  "handicappedid" that entitles them to available social welfare and  health services.
sue & sue (1999) compared communication style differences among asian americans, both white and black in table 3.
yin foods include fruits, vegetables, cold liquids and beer.
lan's face remains severely maimed even after numerous reconstructive  surgeries.
new york: guilford press.
a misunderstanding ofhc and lc orientations can lead to conflicts of  interest since communicators from these two types of culture often do not  understand each other.
as a professional, it is very tempting to refer the consumer  to the best medical professionals and services you know.
through this planning process, priorities and needs are identified and of resources are allocated (lam, 1992).
due to language barriers, however, they may not be able to convey their concerns.
most of these students and scholars came from prestigious universities in china.
they believe in harmony and tend to  avoid confrontation.
the author is very well qualified to write on this subject.
note: table contents were translated & summarized from shanghai books  publisher (1994,pp.
develop educational materials to be distributed to community  members/organizations in the chinese language.
one of the author's cousins was diagnosed with schizophrenia in his early twenties.
it includes job placement, employment and settlement.
lam (1992) notes that confucian philosophy  advocates the virtue of sacrificing individual needs for the good of the group.
the fourth wave: the chinatown, dual worker family and the students  (1965–1977) the 1965 immigration act replaced a 21 year–old exclusionary system  of immigration.
asian american cultural dimensions in rehabilitation counseling.
programs involving psychological counseling, psychotherapy and behavior modification have been set up in many general hospitals, universities and schools (chen, 1995).
chinese prefer vegetables cooked, not raw.
when he first came to theu.s., jim had several jobs, such as waiting tables in chinese restaurants and delivering newspapers for a chinese newspaper company in new york city.
u.s. department of state  (2001).
wang, chan, thomas, lin & larson (1997) summarized chan and colleagues' 1984 and 1988 study findings that chinese participants were more positive toward people with physical disabilities than toward people with developmental disabilities and mental disorders but that chinese students were less positive in their attitudes toward people with physical or mental disabilities than their american counterparts.
there is also a limited number of well–educated women whose english proficiency is at a level that allows them to pursue advanced education or careers similar to those they had in china.
resident population estimates of the  united states by sex, race, and hispanic origin: april 1, 1990 to july 1, 1999,  with short–term projection to march 1, 2000.
amendments to taiwan's laws include the abolition of restrictions imposed upon people with disabilities who take the joint university entrance exam.
now the anniversary is often used to promote better relationships between the  army and the civilians, relationships believed to have helped defeat the  nationalists in the 1949 civil war.
the reunification of china, and hong kong and macao at the end of the twentiethth century also strengthened china.
employees enjoy two  paid days off.
" chinese people are often shy, especially in an unfamiliar environment (chin, 1996).
vegetables are frequently mixed with meat to  maintain the balance ofyin and yang.
new york: m.  e. sharpe, incorporated.
a first  generation immigrant from the people's republic of china, gloria liu holds a  master's degree in special education with a major in rehabilitation science  from clarion university of pennsylvania.
sought employment in labor–intense, low–capital services, such as  garment sweatshops and restaurants.
the china disabled persons federation  was established in 1988.
people still eat rice dumplings wrapped in bamboo–leaves on that day.
the fact that she is increasingly unable to effectively change bothers her.
this author worked with sun's parents and located an excellent program for adults and children with visual impairment.
just december in america, this is the best  business season of the year and people will pour out their money to buy  presents, decorations, food and clothing.
those who participate in these  vocational training program not only receive intensive professional training  free of charge, but can also apply for a monthly living subsidy of aboutu.s.  $400.
lam (2000) maintains that the reason for the wide acceptance of buddhism in china is the concept of rebirth and its reinforcement of the principles of taoism and confucianism.
the fact that  she is increasingly unable to effectively change bothers her.
expand family care programs to include relatives as providers (omrdd,  1994).
in july, 1998, one year after he came to the u.s., jim's truck was struck by another truck and he sustained traumatic brain injury (tbi) as well as physical disabilities.
that meant that a total of 40,600 chinese could come to theu.s. each year (pan, 1990).
rehabilitation market segmentation  and positioning of rehabilitation providers.
in summary, as lee (1996, p. 252) points out, "the influx of immigrants and refugees from many different parts of asia and from many different socioeconomic and political backgrounds has contributed to the complexity of existing chinese american communities.
zhang thought the parents were the ones who needed change, not the daughter.
therefore, the military, labor, and government employees were the biggest beneficiaries.
meanwhile, many first–wave laborers left the mines and railroads and used their savings to start small businesses (lee, 1996).
in the past, carol has assumed  responsibility for her family's problems and has done a great deal for her  parents.
bicultural conflicts in chinese immigrant children.
like the development of special education, the development of rehabilitation also started in china in the 80's.
they also suggested assertiveness training for carol.
promoting cultural competence in children's mental health services.
u.s. bureau of census (2000).
the scope of care includes diagnosis, examinations, tests, consulting,  surgery, drugs, supplies/devices, treatment, nursing care,etc.
resident population estimates of the united states by sex, race, and hispanic origin: april 1, 1990 to july 1, 1999, with short–term projection to march 1, 2000.
another group of immigrants to the u.s. were refugees of chinese decent from vietnam, laos, and cambodia.
a couple of weeks later, joe was transferred back to his chinesepcp which pleased him and his sister.
copyright © 2001 by the center for international rehabilitation research  information and exchange (cirrie) all rights reserved.
a computerized central registry for rehabilitation was set up by the hong kong government in 1983 to systematically collect data on persons with disabilities in need of rehabilitation services.
her (1999, p. 36) noted that "the traditional view in taiwan is that  disabled people are the way they are because they did something bad in their  previous lives, and that they therefore deserve their afflictions."
http://acc6.its.brooklyn.cuny.edu/~phalsall/texts/chinrelg.html her, k. (1999).
printed in the  united states of america.
in order to facilitate lan's independent living in the community, her hospital assisted her in selecting a "new home."
conversely, their chinese  counterparts (withhc orientation) may view such behavior as rude and blunt.
his social worker made a referral to the department of health traumatic brain injury home and community–based medicaid waiver program.
her (1999) estimates that the number of taiwan's children with mental  retardation is 158,000.
cirrie is supported by a grant from the national institute on disability and rehabilitation research of theu.s. department of education.
more than 350,000 people hold major illness/injury certificates that  exempt them from co–payments.
" concept of disability the traditional chinese term for disability is "canfei," meaning  "handicap" and "useless," or "canji," meaning  "handicap" and "illness."
all this has helped create favorable conditions for the  continued development of mental rehabilitation in china.
help–seeking among asian  and pacificamericans: a multiperspective analysis.
his social worker made a  referral to the department of health traumatic brain injury home and  community–based medicaid waiver program.
her father is out of work and depressed most of the time.
more serious problems are referred to the local clinic or hospital.
for example, if you have dinner at a traditional chinese home, the host will on numerous occasions offer you drinks and food to show hospitality and sincerity.
historically, chinese immigration to the united states was limited,  compared to immigration from europe, due to strict immigration quotas.
after seeing his new pcp once, joe asked to be transferred back to his chinese doctor since he felt much more comfortable with her.
economic survival was the primary goal for  many chinese families, especially the new immigrants.
this is the biggest and most celebrated festival in china and sections of east and southeast asia.
beijing teenage girl with mental retardation was elected to be the global friendship ambassador.
" special utensils chopsticks.
why does she have to know everywhere i go?
street clinics, the most immediate level of health care in urban neighborhoods, also serve as places where people with personal problems can go for discussion or help.
new york: john wiley & sons.
while the chinese immigrant population declined, those remaining survived  in the face of anti–miscegenation laws, special taxes directed against  them, institutional racism, persistent humiliation, racial violence, loss of  property, loss of livelihood and sometimes loss of life (chan, 1998).
bond, m. h. (editor).
shanghai cishu chu ban she. (1994).
her also reported that chen expressed his sadness  at the current conditions for taiwan's children with mental retardation, since  fewer than three percent are lucky enough to receive early treatment.
the program plan is reviewed annually by a joint committee of government departments and non–government organizations.
one of the few providers with whom he relates well is his primary care physician (pcp), a chinese doctor in chinatown.
the author's  friend, a third–generation italian american, used to complain to her  about a chinese neighbor "mei," who would always ask her "did  you eat?"
each of these communities has advocacy groups, churches/temples, and non–profit organizations that address immigration, legal, medical, educational, disability, vocational, and many other needs.
it is essential, therefore, to educate the chinese consumer  and family about the nature and/or cause of the disability as well as about  treatment methods and available services.
mainland china has many programs, procedures, laws and policies that are mandated and enforced by the government.
the term "gong neng zhang ai zhe," meaning "individuals with disabilities" is rarely used.
lam (1992 discussed an example of a mother who blamed her  child's epilepsy on the lamb she ate during pregnancy.
they decorate the doors and windows with paper–cutouts and posters with the popular themes of "happiness," "wealth," "longevity" and "satisfactory marriage with more children."
she would then  dance a breathtaking dance.
he lived with his parents and sister in an apartment he now shares with his sister, as both his parents are deceased, his mother, one year after he sustained histbi.
wong (2000) reported that there are 11.82 million people with mental retardation alone in mainland china today.
sons of the yellow emperor: a history of the chinese diaspora.
ning's father took him to see a doctor who told ning,  "don't touch my desk" when he learned the boy hadaids.
boston, toronto, london: little, brown and company procedure of shanghai municipality on the dispersed placement for the  employment of the handicapped. (2000).
the reestablishment of diplomatic relations between the united states and  the people's republic of china in 1978 provided an opportunity for students and  professionals from china to study and lecture in the united states, and many of  them elected to stay (lee, 1996).
sun's past case managers spoke only english.
lam (1992) notes that confucian philosophy advocates the virtue of sacrificing individual needs for the good of the group.
she is very involved in joe's care but often feels a lack of support  from social workers and therapists.
this event is  regarded as the beginning of the red army (later the people's liberation army).
they would periodically check  as to whether sun's parents were satisfied with the day treatment program and  the parents would always say "yes," unable to express their wish for  a more appropriate setting for their daughter.
this hinders his vocational rehabilitation.
the description of the  asian–american way of communication can apply to that of the chinese.
another area of development is the field of special education.
for the chinese, looking a  superior or an elderly person directly in the eye indicates disobedience and  threat.
these feelings often create  conflicts and barriers to for acceptance among family members (lam, 1992).
they are divided  primarily into hospital– or community–based rehabilitation centers.
counseling could address his issue,  his role in the family and his expectations related to vocational services.
chinese americans formed churches/temples within their communities, where they  worship in english or chinese, depending n preference.
chinese women hold positions as factory workers and managers in significant numbers, although it is still uncommon for a woman to be a general manager or board member of a state enterprise or a director of a chinese institution or agency.
there are differences in the availability of community organizations to  minority groups in urban and rural areas (omrdd, 1994).
the mission ofcirrie is to assist rehabilitation researchers and practitioners in theu.s. to access international expertise.
a large number of urban citizens visit  parks as a family to celebrate.
zhang reasoned that in chinese  culture, it is all right for an individual to stand up for one's own rights,  however, one needs to do it in an indirect, subtle way, especially when dealing  with one's elders, lest it cause others to "lose face.
these women tend to adapt to  american society quickly and successfully.
he also speaks mandarin and is able to communicate about basic needs in english.
cirrie * university at buffalo * state university of new york 515 kimball tower * buffalo, new york 14214-3079 *u.s.a. phone: (716) 829-6743 * fax: (716) 829-3217 e-mail: ub-cirrie@buffalo.edu
the joint council for the physically and mentally disabled, a division of the hong kong council for social services, coordinates voluntary rehabilitation organizations and represents their interests in policy making with the hong kong government (lam, 1992).
the neighbor's house is still empty because  nobody will purchase it.
joe, on the other hand, is very frustrated about his  dependence on his younger sister.
zhang reasoned that in chinese culture, it is all right for an individual to stand up for one's own rights, however, one needs to do it in an indirect, subtle way, especially when dealing with one's elders, lest it cause others to "lose face."
special thanks to her  family anddr.
to overcome happiness, one must  overcome craving, desire, or endless wanting, hatred and complaints.
immediately after his diagnosis, ning li was terminated from his school and to date no school will accept him due to the nature of his illness.
why does she ask me ten times a day whether i ate or not?
the spirit underlying the diverse celebrations of the chinese new year is the same: a sincere wish of peace and happiness for the family members and friends.
many initially settled in or near chinatowns in the major metropolitan areas.
he uses his sister as outlet for his anger  since as he has nowhere else to release his temper.
help–seeking among asian and pacificamericans: a multiperspective analysis.
sue feels that  she really doesn't understand the medical, rehabilitation or social systems and  is at a loss when dealing with all the jargon.
the unit that does not fulfil the specified quota for the job placement of the handicapped must submit 1.6 percent of its gross salary account for the previous year to an employment guarantee fund for the handicapped.
the chinese exclusion act of 1882, which was not repealed until 1943 when  china became an american ally at the beginning of world warii, barred chinese  laborers and their relatives (including wives) from entering the united states.
there were 19 categories in the census, which sampled 369,448 households, a total of 1,579,316 individuals.
taiwanese women have been struggling for their independence and equality for about 20 years.
so she changed his  pcp to an american doctor who specializes in tbi.
in the 1960s, special education developed as a separate service within the education system.
her mother feels overburdened and ineffective.
it emphasizes the importance of family and  social order (i.e., children must respect and be obligated to their parents and  grandparents; junior follows the senior; servants serve the rulers, and so on).
the host will not accept no for an answer and will continue to  offer the fine food/drinks until the end of the dinner.
the northern chinese favor wheat and flour products while southerners prefer rice and noodles.
even though this rehabilitation concept was adopted from western countries, the chinese system includes traditional chinese treatment methods.
after emerging  from coma, jim was transferred from the hospital to a local medical center for  inpatient rehabilitation.
for various social, and economic reasons, historically there has not been much emphasis on disability issues.
they completed of a  ten–year rehabilitation program plan in 1976 and in 1977 published a  white paper titled "integrating the disabled into the community: a united  effort."
profile: taiwan topic data religions: buddhism, confucianism, taoism, christianity languages:  mandarin (official), taiwanese, hakka size: approximately the size of the  netherlands (engholm, 1994,p. 28) immigration history chinese migration to the u.s. has a history of more than 150 years.
so it simply remained a well–kept family secret for many years.
this belief is somewhat contradictory to that of  buddhism, but the two religions co–exist peacefully in china.
there are parties everywhere, – in parks, dancing halls and universities, where students will soon leave for their winter vacation.
so she has remained in the hospital for 27 years, cared for by team after team of physicians, nursing personnel and volunteers.
engholm (1994) noted that direct eye contact may be taken as an  intimidation tactic by the chinese, while the american makes eye contact to  indicate he is giving the chinese his full attention.
through september 1989, there  were 111,298 persons with disabilities registered with the central registry, or  1.9 percent of the total population of 5.8 million.
while it is  important for american professionals to have knowledge of the chinese  traditional values and family structure, it is also important for us to  recognize that economic and political changes in mainland china, taiwan, and  hong kong have had a dramatic impact on chinese family system and values.
since 1993 she has been working with people with disabilities in the capacity of counselor and bilingual case manager.
all this had a profound impact on the development of family life among the early chinese in theu.s. (lee, 1996).
hernandez & isaacs (1998, p.255) commented that "it is often tempting to resort to the use of english in these situations, but doing so may undermine service providers' rapport with parents and may be interpreted by the parents as dismissal of their culture of origin."
provide the consumer and family with as many written materials in their  native language as you can find or have a translator translate basic  information about program offerings into their native tongue.
the majority han nationality, the largest ethnic group in mainland china, practices buddhism, christianity and taoism (china today, 2000) and all chinese are greatly influenced by confucianism as well.
since the chinese tend to go to extremes so as not to offend or embarrass others, they may seem ambiguous or "wishy–washy.
recommendations to rehabilitation service providers references preface
these societies provide professional consultation  to concerned ministries and play a significant role in the evolution of  rehabilitation policy.
zhang (1994), a counselor from china, could not understand why putting the  family's interests before one's own is considered not correct or  "normal" in the american culture.
in traditional chinese  medicine, humankind is viewed as a microcosm within a universal macrocosm.
"in traditional asian society, many interactions are understandable only in light of high–context cues and situations" (sue & sue, 1999,p. 82).
buddhism is  a man–centered religion, not god–centered.
economic survival was the primary goal for many chinese families, especially the new immigrants.
lee (1996) believes that the community association model provides the psychological services of an extended family to many chinese immigrants.
women's liberation: the taiwanese experience.
combining educational, social and vocational rehabilitation, crrc  established a comprehensive medical rehabilitation system that integrates  western medicine and traditional chinese medicine, emergency care, early  recovery and long term care.
youth day (may 4) this is a day that marks the first mass student movement in 1919, a  movement touched off by the then–chinese government, which acquiesced to  the japanese government's attempt to colonize shandong province.
for example, in vocational  rehabilitation, four steps are followed: vocational assessment, which assesses the consumer's vocational uniqueness  and employment preference vocational guidance which provides assistance in vocational selection and  employment adjustment.
a one–child per family policy has replaced the traditional extended family system (lee, 1996) and the ten–year cultural revolution caused many families to suffer forced separation.
so she has remained in the hospital for 27 years,  cared for by team after team of physicians, nursing personnel and volunteers.
in mainland china,  every large building complex or neighborhood has committees or associations  formed by voluntary or selected residents – mostly retired residents or  housewives – that address residents' family, environmental, recreational  and other needs and issues.
doing business in asia's booming "china triangle".
mental health is believed to be achieved through self–discipline, exercise of power and the avoidance of morbid thoughts.
jim's father was so disturbed by the accident that he returned to mainland china for psychiatric treatment.
lam (1992) noted that one of its major rehabilitation services, vocational rehabilitation, is quite similar to that of the united states.
in lam's (2000) analysis, confucianism is the philosophy that guides  chinese in governing behavior.
he questioned the suitability of american counseling strategies for other cultures.
the 2000 census shows the chinese to be the largest single group of asians in america and that asians and pacific islanders represent four percent of the u.s. population (u.s. bureau of census, 2000).
jim and his mother's questions were answered in chinese and in a written format to allow them to comprehend, digest and refer to this information when convenient.
hence they are more independent and better informed and are likely to be active advocates for a loved one in need.
however, she is convinced that if she were more hardworking and  competent, most of her family problems would diminish greatly.
there are  parties everywhere, – in parks, dancing halls and universities, where  students will soon leave for their winter vacation.
a neighbor even moved after learning the boy hadaids.
the 1950s saw the development of  sheltered workshops, training centers, residential homes and recreational and  social clubs for people with physical disabilities, blindness and mental  retardation.
chinese are brought up to remain an integral part of their families throughout their lives, instead of being trained to function independently (bond, 1986).
sue & sue (1999) discussed the concept of high–low context  communication proposed by hall (1976).
though  taking the time up front maybe difficult for the provider(s) and may even cause  conflict with some agencies' policies, the knowledge and understanding that  follows will help the provider build a trusting and helping relationship with  the individual or family and make more effective services provision possible.
all this  had a profound impact on the development of family life among the early chinese  in theu.s. (lee, 1996).
in lee, c. c.  (editor),multicultural issues in counseling: new approaches to diversity.
a high–context (hc) communication  emphasizes the physical or social context of the situation and relies heavily  on nonverbal cues and identification or understanding shared by the  communicators.
in this case, being the oldest son and the only surviving man in the  family, joe's strong desire to work and be the family bread winner could hinder  his vocational and rehabilitation process.
consequently from 1943 to the repeal of the quota law in 1965, most chinese immigrants were female (lee, 1996).
beijing teenage girl with mental retardation was  elected to be the global friendship ambassador.
for  instance, consuming cold fluid while having oily food is believed to cause  diarrhea.
due to their unfamiliarity with and lack of understanding of western medicine and/or the medical, social and rehabilitation system, community members prefer to seek medical help first from a chinese doctor in their community.
before 1978, when the u.s. established diplomatic relations with mainland china and crossed its recognition of taiwan in favor of that of the people's republic, taiwanese comprised most of the 20 thousand per year quota.
when the author began working as a case manager many years ago, she was  asked to interpret for a chinese family.
sick people with fever and/or stomach problems  are advised to avoid cold fluid and food.
he thought the parents needed to be more sensitive to their daughter's needs and more aware of the difficulties they had caused her.
cirrie is supported  by a grant from the national institute on disability and rehabilitation  research of theu.s. department of education.
lantern festival (fifteenth of the first month)
since china's implementation of the one child per couple policy, however, greater attention has been given to the mental health of the single child.
keep family members well–informed of the process.
interpreting  nonverbal expressions can be quite difficult, however.
this means more than 95 percent of the mentally ill are unable to be admitted to the hospital, which is why so most are taken care of by their families.
besides language barriers, chinese and americans differ in their styles of  communication.
recently, she transferred to an excellent independent living and vocational training residential facility (dong, 2000).
therefore, she is asking for counseling help.
when jiang zemin was re–elected president and zhu rongji selected as premier in 1998 after deng's death, the "third generation leaders" firmly committed to economic reform and opened china to the outside world.
when encountering health problems, many religious people, especially those from rural areas where medical resources are not readily available or sufficient will visit temples or taoist priest houses to pray, worship or perform rituals in order to find out the cause of and/or the solutions to their diseases or disabilities.
when the author started working with her she had been attending a traditional  day treatment program for people with mental retardation for a few years.
this is a happy and memorable day for chinese children.
chinese philosophies promote harmony.
advice for medical, social and rehabilitation personnel: avoid scheduling any meetings and/or appointments during this holiday season,i.e., a couple of days before and a few days after the spring festival.
the chinese family usually shares all the dishes.
at present, joe would like to move out of his current apartment and  live by himself within a chinese community.
the china disabled person's federation consequently set up the rehabilitation research association for people with mental retardation and a number of other societies have been formed under the auspices of the chinese medical association.
to zhang, it would be extremely selfish for carol  to leave when her family is in such need of her.
she seemed to be comfortable there, but on the occasion of a home visit to see her and her parents in their chinatown apartment, it became apparent that sun's parents really preferred that she attend a special school for the blind.
most of the chinese  immigrants who arrived under the immigration act of 1965 came as families.
new york state office of mental retardation and developmental disabilities.
if the earlier policy aimed to freeze the country's ethnic  balance, the 1965 act assigned a flat annual quota of 20 thousand immigrant  visas to every country outside the western hemisphere.
there is also an interesting story behind this.
immigrants from hong kong.
role of family the roles of members of a chinese family are highly interdependent (ong,  1993).
americans are taught to  look at others when speaking to them.
when jiang zemin was  re–elected president and zhu rongji selected as premier in 1998 after  deng's death, the "third generation leaders" firmly committed to  economic reform and opened china to the outside world.
they decorate the doors and  windows with paper–cutouts and posters with the popular themes of  "happiness," "wealth," "longevity" and  "satisfactory marriage with more children."
they complain that joe wants to find a paid job right away but does not want to go through any training.
traditionally the family has been the most fundamental and important  unit of society among the chinese and this is still true.
he cannot accept the fact that due to his memory loss, he has to depend on sue to remind him to do things and give him advice.
it is expected that the guest will turn down the offers to show his politeness.
international women's day (march 8) women employees get a whole or a half paid day–off to celebrate  women's independence.
china has one of the four oldest civilizations in the world and a written history of 4,000 years.
there is also a limited number of well–educated women whose english  proficiency is at a level that allows them to pursue advanced education or  careers similar to those they had in china.
lam (2000) maintains that the  reason for the wide acceptance of buddhism in china is the concept of rebirth  and its reinforcement of the principles of taoism and confucianism.
they know that they do not stand alone (sung, 1985).
it is important for american vocational counselors to keep different work  incentives in mind when working with immigrants from mainland china.
the former hong kong government and voluntary agencies worked closely on an  integrated and coordinated approach to rehabilitation.
counseling strategies for chinese americans.
amendments to taiwan's laws include the abolition of restrictions imposed  upon people with disabilities who take the joint university entrance exam.
in lynch, e.w., & hanson,  m.j. (editors),developing cross–cultural competence.
in  general, however only children withphysical disabilities can receive  mainstream education.
they now  address anyone who needs assistance.
the family is also an  important economic unit.
jim's primary language is cantonese.
vocational training which provides training to consumers according to  their needs, background and ability.
a significant number of them were survivors  of hunger, rape, incarceration, forced migration and torture.
in general, however only children withphysical disabilities can receive mainstream education.
she started working with people with traumatic brain injury (tbi) in 1995 and has served as coordinator of different traumatic brain injury projects for the association for the help of retarded children–new york city chapter and currently as a regional resource development specialist for the new york state department of healthtbi waiver program.
in the economic  sphere, more and more women maintain jobs after they are married.
the author joins me in acknowledging and thanking fong chan, ph.d. professor and area chair, rehabilitation psychology program, university of wisconsin-madison, deborah chen,ph.d., professor, department of special education california state university, northridge and jen–liang hwang, a doctoral student in rehabilitation science at the university at buffalo, state university of new york, all of whom reviewed the manuscript and provided valuable suggestions for strengthening it.
since the law on mandatory employment began to be enforced, some 20,000 job opportunities annually have been extended to people with disabilities (her, 1999).
lam (1992) noted that one of its major rehabilitation  services, vocational rehabilitation, is quite similar to that of the united  states.
mainland china is at a stage at which it is pushing for the establishment  of segregated special education schools, while americans have embraced the  mainstreaming and are working for inclusion.
jim and his mother's questions were answered in chinese and in a  written format to allow them to comprehend, digest and refer to this  information when convenient.
the ratio of  white–collar to blue–collar women is about one to one.
the 1965 immigration act replaced a 21 year–old exclusionary system of immigration.
lan was almost burned to death in a fire 27 years ago.
to maintain family harmony, child rearing focuses on obedience, proper conduct, control of emotion and personal desire, moral training, impulse control, achievement and the acceptance of social obligations.
shanghai, china: shanghai cishu chu ban she.
find out what shapes the  structure of the family and what causes the conflict.
baltimore,md: paul h. brookes.
he lived with his parents and sister in an apartment he now shares with  his sister, as both his parents are deceased, his mother, one year after he  sustained histbi.
this author believes that cross–cultural analysis of this kind will help  american rehabilitation providers appreciate and understand the chinese culture  and rehabilitation system.
as soon as the conversation started, however she realized that she did not understand a word the chinese family was saying.
although, there were chinese in the united states prior to 1800, they began  to arrive in large numbers in the 1840s in response to the demand for cheap  labor provoked by the discovery of gold in california and the construction of  railroads (sue & sue, 1999).
the increase in the percentage of college–educated women is  greater than that of men (seven percent versus five percent).
the chinese definition of mental retardation is similar to that of the american.
this festival is said to honor the memory of qu yuan, a great patriot poet of the state of chu during the warring states period (475–221bc).
copper (1999) maintains that social welfare has had a deep impact on taiwan's society and culture.
meat usually is not eaten in large quantities and beef is cooked until well done.
it recognizes four  degrees: first degree (iq under 20 or 25), second degree (iq between  20–35 or 25–40), third degree (iq between 35–50 or  40–55) and the fourth degree (iq 50–70 or 55–75) (shanghai  books publisher, 1994).
this doctor  has limited knowledge about the identification, treatment and resources fortbi,  however, joe's service coordinator thought that joe would be better served by a  doctor who specializes in working with individuals withtbi.
folklore tells of a  beautiful fairy living on the moon in a spacious but cold crystal palace with  her sole companion, a jade rabbit.
coping style and personal responsibility as factors in the perception  of individuals with physical disabilities by chinese international students.
paradise regained: taiwan's garden of eden.
this is somewhat like the american thanksgiving as it is a day for the entire family to gather together.
therefore, they may encounter more difficulties in acculturation than women who originally held the traditional roles of housewife and mother (liu, 1997).
then the family sets out  to offer greetings to their relatives and neighbors.
their involvement will be vital to the success of the rehabilitation process (ong, 1993).
no one but yourself can save you from suffering.
according to the chinese culture, a morally responsible son or daughter bears the duty of taking care of parents, even if it means sacrifice.
mainland china china disabled persons federation (cdpf, 2000), based on its 1987 national  survey, claims that persons with disabilities comprise 5 percent of the chinese  population (63 million).
although many immigrants have learned some english either  formally or through their exposure to it via the media, most are fluent only in  their native tongues (hernandez & isaacs, 1998).
there are dozens of  chinese organizations, associations and groups in new york city, for instance,  but rarely will you find any in most rural areas, even in places close to large  cities.
shanghai, china: shanghai books  publisher.]
through this planning process, priorities  and needs are identified and of resources are allocated (lam, 1992).
new york state office of mental retardation and developmental  disabilities.
originally this was a celebration of spring.
her said the period from birth to age six is critical and determines the extent of physical disability in of these children (her, 1999).
food practices usual meal pattern chinese usually eat three meals a day, the largest at dinner (chin, 1996).
the author wishes to thank the editors, her three colleagues (dr. marie cavallo,dr. shelly levy & amy sigona) and the three reviewers for their most helpful comments on earlier drafts of the monograph.
since then more then  500,000 individuals with mental retardation have participated in mainland  china's special olympics (wong, 2000)
with that in mind, the service coordinator and housing locator started working with both jim and his mother utilizing chinese interpreters.
this is a day that marks the first mass student movement in 1919, a movement touched off by the then–chinese government, which acquiesced to the japanese government's attempt to colonize shandong province.
to complicate the situation, there are many different dialects in the chinese language.
the act was broadened to includeall chinese people.
theu.s. government granted special permanent residency status to a large number of chinese students and visiting scholars in theu.s. immediately following the 1989 tiananmen protest demonstrations (pan, 1990).
theu.s. government granted special permanent  residency status to a large number of chinese students and visiting scholars in  theu.s. immediately following the 1989 tiananmen protest demonstrations (pan,  1990).
she is  reported to be the only survivor of such severe burns in chinese medical  history.
at midnight, the whole sky will be lit up by  fireworks and firecrackers.
due to language barriers and lack of socialization they often lack knowledge of theu.s. social and medical system and tend to depend on their husbands or children to maneuver through the rehabilitation system.
lam (1992) described shame and guilt as a complicated mix in the family of the disabled.
yang  foods include meats, eggs, hot fluids and oily and fried foods.
printed in the united states of america.
one of the author's cousins was diagnosed  with schizophrenia in his early twenties.
with the exception of medical rehabilitation, about 70 percent of direct  services for people with disabilities in hong kong are provided by voluntary  organizations.
by and large, hong kong, which was under british rule for about 100 years,  has medical and rehabilitation systems more similar to those in theu.s. than to  those in mainland china.
in today's china, it is still very common for three  generations to live under one roof.
children's day (june 1) with the establishment of the "one couple, one child" policy,  this day is emphasized more than ever before.
crrc,  affiliated with the china disabled persons federation, provides comprehensive  rehabilitation and social services to people with disabilities, carries out  scientific research, offers professional training, conducts information  exchange and serves as a technical resource to the chinese rehabilitation  network.
hot beverages are preferred due to belief that cold water  shocks the system (chin, 1996).
china's long history includes eras of primitive society, slave society, feudalism and semi–feudalism, semi–colonialism and the present socialist society ("china today, 2000").
it has been estimated that more  than 68 million chinese still consider themselves buddhists, though it is not  likely that they all practice the religion regularly (compton's living  encyclopedia, 1995).
many chinese immigrants are multilingual–fluent in the official language, a local dialect and english as well.
the self–perception of chinese women may be the most noticeable psychological change in china since the open door policy that began at the end of the 80's (engholm, 1994).
however, she is convinced that if she were more hardworking and competent, most of her family problems would diminish greatly.
asian and pacific islander american population statistics (monograph series 1).
philosophies and religions.
although their training in mental health is minimal  their sympathetic ear is often what's needed to help solve everyday personal  problems.
since his injury, his younger and only sister sue has been his primary caretaker and advocate.
vocational rehabilitation development in hong kong: a cross–cultural perspective.
references asian american health forum.
knowing mandarin and a couple of other  chinese dialects, she went into the meeting with confidence.
while older– and middle–generation  chinese still maintain some traditional beliefs and practices, the younger  generation has tended to reject conservatism and traditionalism (lee, 1996).
this author was stunned by an article in the most popular chinese newspaper world journal.
asian and pacific islander  american population statistics (monograph series 1).
the chinese in america are a heterogeneous group.
more romantic than thanksgiving, the whole family feasts under the fullest and brightest moon of the year.
disability and rehabilitation systems due to the political, economic and social differences between mainland  china, hong kong and taiwan, provisions of rehabilitation and social services  to people with disabilities vary considerably.
under  the work program for disabled persons, the government provides income tax  relief to any enterprise in which 35 percent of the employees are disabled  (chen, 1995).
traditionally the family has been the most fundamental and important unit of society among the chinese and this is still true.
some feel nervous, even skeptical when referred to an american medical professional outside that community.
americans view eye contact as an indication of mutual understanding and trust.
it marks the beginning of the  annual campaign for a "green nation.
new york: anchor express.
the  self–perception of chinese women may be the most noticeable psychological  change in china since the open door policy that began at the end of the 80's  (engholm, 1994).
for fear that fish might consume his body, the people of  chu rowed their boats to the place of his death and threw rice dumplings  wrapped in bamboo leaves into the river to feed the fish.
the revised chinese constitution of 1982 and the law on the protection of the disabled persons (1992) emphasizes that families, work units and community organizations must share the responsibility for caring for the disabled.
china rehabilitation research center (crrc), a state owned institution, was established in 1988.
it is suggested increasing emphasis on hospital–based and community–based rehabilitation for the mentally ill in recent years.
american classmates all maintained that carol was too  submissive and should not continue to put family interests above her own.
historically, chinese immigration to the united states was limited, compared to immigration from europe, due to strict immigration quotas.
in lam's (2000) analysis, confucianism is the philosophy that guides chinese in governing behavior.
the seventh eve (seventh of the seventh month) this originates from a beautiful legend about a cow herder and a fairy who  were cruelly separated but reunite once each year, making this a happy and sad  occasion.
yamashiro & matsuoka (1997) found that asian americans significantly  underuse formal mental health services, a fact they attribute to a mismatch of  cultural perspectives and language barriers.
he has since lost all his friends, as have his parents.
hong kong lam (1992) commended hong kong's long history of rehabilitation services,  whose most significant developments have occurred since world warii.
they tend to seek help from immediate and extended family first, before turning to neighbors, communities and professionals.
find a way to involve the doctor the consumer chooses  instead of forcing the consumer to change.
children with mental disabilities, hearing/language  impairment and visual impairment receive special education in special schools,  such as schools for the mentally retarded, schools for the mute and deaf, and  schools for the blind.
mid–autumn festival (fifteenth of the eighth month) this is somewhat like the american thanksgiving as it is a day for the  entire family to gather together.
the fifth wave: the students/scholars and refugees (1978–present) taiwan retained its right to a 20 thousand per–year u.s. immigration  quota when the u.s. normalized its relations with mainland china in 1978, and  the people's republic was given its own quota of 20 thousand.
copper points out that in the early 1980s the government passed three pieces of legislation to aid the disadvantaged population: the aged welfare law the handicapped welfare law, and the social assistance law.
it was also an anti–confucian movement as well as one that promoted western scientific and democratic ideas.
new york: john wiley.
refer the consumer and family to community organizations where staff speak  their language and are able to address such special issues as immigration with  which you may not be familiar.
offers services to the disadvantaged and patients who need medical care most.
chinese in general communicate less directly and less explicitly  and their communication often relies on body movements, facial expressions, eye  messages and other non–verbal signals (engholm, 1994).
the stigma attached to disability may generate the family's fear of exposure to criticism and disgrace.
islam was brought to china mainly from central asia, and by 1995, there were believed to be more than four million chinese muslims (compton's living encyclopedia, 1995).
the mother believed that the lamb she ate passed the "shaking of the lamb" to her child.
taoism and buddhism, the most popular religions in china, have some differences between them but no conflicts (lam, 2000).
american classmates all maintained that carol was too submissive and should not continue to put family interests above her own.
there are contemporary chinese–american families who are "americanized" but still hold some traditional values.
knowing mandarin and a couple of other chinese dialects, she went into the meeting with confidence.
for instance, language training is  provided to individuals with language impairment.
be aware of family structure and conflicts.
part of her responsibilities  in these roles has been to develop and translate culturally competent education  and outreach materials ontbi for use by rehabilitation professionals, consumers  and family.
it  was not until 1988 that the government finally abolished these restrictions and  opened the door for people with disabilities to pursue advanced education.
© 2001 by the center for international rehabilitation research information and exchange (cirrie) all rights reserved.
this case illustrates several good lessons: china is a multi–religious country.
therefore, recently immigrated  chinese parents of children with disabilities may be very skeptical about the  inclusion concept.
subsequently a rehabilitation development coordinating committee ( rdcc) was appointed by the governor to advise the overall development of  rehabilitation services and policies.
for instance, when invited into chinese homes and offered  something to eat or drink, remember that it is considered impolite to say no.
it is more appropriate to address older consumers and/or family members by "mr. or mrs." as it can be viewed as disrespectful to address older people by their first names.
lam (1992 discussed an example of a mother who blamed her child's epilepsy on the lamb she ate during pregnancy.
chinese people are generally more accepting and sympathetic toward anacquired injury that causes physical limitations than toward a congenital physical or mental disorder.
due to  language barriers, however, they may not be able to convey their concerns.
there was an  additional quota of 600 (increased to five thousand on october 1, 1987)
in 1943 after years, even decades of separation changes in the immigration  law meant that many wives were reunited with their husbands for the first time.
the first two medical rehabilitation centers in  hong kong opened in 1962 and 1963.
the author's friend, a third–generation italian american, used to complain to her about a chinese neighbor "mei," who would always ask her "did you eat?"
san francisco: author.
many chinese are buddhists and attend occasional services, practice rituals, and visit a temple on a regular basis.
they  encouraged carol to think of her own needs first, leave her family, live alone  and make sure not to let her parents override her wishes.
while vocational assessment, vocational guidance and vocational training  systems in china are similar to those in the american system, job placement  works very differently.
many people will travel home for a family reunion from all parts of the country.
traditionally, the mother is not  allowed to drink or eat anything cold for the first month after she gives birth.
training programs are it is  divided into pre–employment training, employment adjustment training and  work placement.
this is the anniversary of the founding of the people's republic of china in 1949.
in  recent years, the open–door policy and the economic boom in china have  brought another wave of western influence and urbanization (lee, 1996) which  have placed additional stress on traditional families..
ning's father took him to see a doctor who told ning, "don't touch my desk" when he learned the boy hadaids.
statistics indicate that their status has improved  impressively.
national health insurance (nhi) was inaugurated by the taiwan government in 1995 to provide health care for the entire nation, lighten the public's financial burden, provide adequate health care and uphold the rights of the public to equal–access medical care (national health insurance profile, 1999).
vocational rehabilitation development in hong kong: a  cross–cultural perspective.
hernandez & isaacs (1988) pointed out that members of an immigrant  family settling into a new community will learn english at different rates, so  there might be many levels of english fluency within a family.
zhang (1994) used the following case study to argue that american counseling is deeply rooted in individualism often at the expenses of family and community.
early chinese immigrants lived in a virtually womanless world without family life (lee, 1996).
(1988, p. 23) concluded that  "these different expectations of counseling and low levels of  self–disclosure and emotional expressions are often in direct conflict  with the expectations of individual western therapists.
many women were instrumental in the fight to liberate  the country from the nationalists and from foreign domination and were  prominent in the party and in the state administration throughout the country.
she lost her hands, her hair, many facial features and will never be able to stand.
if there is imbalance of the yin and yang, then the immune system of the body is disturbed and the body is susceptible to illness.
no one in the family wanted to talk about it, certainly not to people outside of the family.
accessing individuals recognize individual differences.
imbalance ofyin and yang is believed to cause illness.
women employees get a whole or a half paid day–off to celebrate women's independence.
in  recent decades, however, that has been reversed.
hernandez &  isaacs (1998, p.255) commented that "it is often tempting to resort to the  use of english in these situations, but doing so may undermine service  providers' rapport with parents and may be interpreted by the parents as  dismissal of their culture of origin.
engholm (1994) noted that direct eye contact may be taken as an intimidation tactic by the chinese, while the american makes eye contact to indicate he is giving the chinese his full attention.
epilepsy, "yang dian feng," translates as "shaking of the lamb" in chinese.
although shame and guilt are often associated with disabilities in chinese culture, as in american culture, chung (1996) pointed out that the eastern system focuses on thecause of illness, that is, why it happened, whereas in the west, the focus is usually on thesolution to treatment for the disease.
due to the political, economic and social differences between mainland china, hong kong and taiwan, provisions of rehabilitation and social services to people with disabilities vary considerably.
we welcome your comments that will enable us  to deepen our understanding of ways to increase the effectiveness of  rehabilitation services for persons born in other countries.
although their training in mental health is minimal their sympathetic ear is often what's needed to help solve everyday personal problems.
hernandez, m. & isaacs, m. (1998).
crrc, affiliated with the china disabled persons federation, provides comprehensive rehabilitation and social services to people with disabilities, carries out scientific research, offers professional training, conducts information exchange and serves as a technical resource to the chinese rehabilitation network.
in the 1960s, special education developed as a separate service  within the education system.
it is highly recommended that service providers meet with the  interpreter before meetings with consumer/family to keep the interpreter  abreast of the purpose and content of the meeting, familiarize them with  relevant terminology and obtain information about acceptable communication  (both verbal & nonverbal) that may be appropriate for the particular  consumer/family.
since respect for the elders and filial piety are so important, it would be wise for rehabilitation professionals to establish a working relationship with parents or significant extended family members.
sons of the yellow emperor: a history of the chinese  diaspora.
good luck symbols may be displayed  in homes gender people's republic of china the role of women in china changed dramatically when mao  "equalized" the sexes immediately following the founding of people's  republic china in 1949.
to maintain family  harmony, child rearing focuses on obedience, proper conduct, control of emotion  and personal desire, moral training, impulse control, achievement and the  acceptance of social obligations.
during and several days  following the new year's day, people visit each other and exchange gifts.
some feel  nervous, even skeptical when referred to an american medical professional  outside that community.
national day (october 1) this is the anniversary of the founding of the people's republic of china  in 1949.
the spirit  underlying the diverse celebrations of the chinese new year is the same: a  sincere wish of peace and happiness for the family members and friends.
the chinese may smile when they feel embarrassed or shy,  however.
this case illustrates several lessons that should be kept in mind when  providing services to consumers born in china: find persons who speak the consumer's and family members' native language  to work with them.
transmitted aids from blood transfusion...
the term "canji ren," meaning  "handicapped" and "sick people," is also common.
jim is determined to go back to  work and has stated that if returning home with his mother means adding to her  burden, he would rather remain in the nursing home for the rest of his life.
since 1993 she has been working with  people with disabilities in the capacity of counselor and bilingual case  manager.
a couple of weeks  later, joe was transferred back to his chinesepcp which pleased him and his  sister.
after two months of intensive rehabilitation, jim was transferred to a skilled nursing facility with atbi unit for extended care and further rehabilitation.
john h. stone, ph.d., series editor and director, center for international rehabilitation research information and exchange ( cirrie)
approximately half were of the working– class.
as the older brother he thinks he should  support the family and be the one to give orders.
she is often depressed since she has been struggling to do her best, but feels she gets little cooperation and appreciation from joe.
shi yong zhu can bai ke–ai  xin de feng xian.
the goal of this monograph is to provide an introduction to chinese culture, focusing on information that may help rehabilitation service providers to better serve this population.
" case study 2 jim is a 24 year–old, single male of chinese descent.
this author worked as a case manager for a 25 year–old young woman,  sun, a chinese american who was legally blind, non–verbal and diagnosed  with moderate mental retardation.
chinese may have  completely different meanings for nonverbal expressions than americans.
in the past, carol has assumed responsibility for her family's problems and has done a great deal for her parents.
it tells a sad story of a nine–year old chinese boy,  ning li, who acquiredaids from a blood transfusion, received for a broken arm  in 1996.
hong kong, a british colony for 99 years and a  special administrative region of china today, has a very advanced  rehabilitation system.
in addition to the monograph series,cirrie conducts workshops on providing rehabilitation services to foreign-born persons.
it emphasizes the importance of family and social order (i.e., children must respect and be obligated to their parents and grandparents; junior follows the senior; servants serve the rulers, and so on).
there are contemporary chinese–american families who are  "americanized" but still hold some traditional values.
counseling the culturally different: theory and practice ( pp.
nature note: table contents were translated & summarized from shanghai books publisher (1994,pp.
note: edited from haiwang yuan's web page.
there also is a new requirement for the construction of accessible facilities  for people with disabilities (her, 1999).
based on dao de jin, taoism promotes the belief that a person will gain power and strength if he/she behaves in harmony with the nature of universe and will suffer later in life if he/she acts against the nature of the universe (lam, 2000).
seeking help, such as social welfare and benefits from the government, can be very intimidating.
national health insurance (nhi) was inaugurated by the taiwan government in  1995 to provide health care for the entire nation, lighten the public's  financial burden, provide adequate health care and uphold the rights of the  public to equal–access medical care (national health insurance profile,  1999).
the first law in the prc to protect and safeguard the  rights of people with disabilities.
prevalence rates derived from the united states and other western countries, coupled with the reluctance of the chinese to report such cases, suggests that the total population of people with disabilities is closer to 437,569 or 7.5 percent of the total population of hong kong (lam, 1992).
by and large, hong kong, which was under british rule for about 100 years, has medical and rehabilitation systems more similar to those in theu.s. than to those in mainland china.
for example, if you have dinner at a traditional chinese home, the  host will on numerous occasions offer you drinks and food to show hospitality  and sincerity.
subsequent to the establishment of crrc, many rehabilitation centers were established in the country's large urban cities (crrc, 2000).
they know that they do not stand alone  (sung, 1985).
this is a happy and memorable day  for chinese children.
teacher's day (september 1)
taiwan: nation–state or province?
in china, that kind of  assertiveness is considered aggressive and immoral.
" the language barrier is another problem when counseling chineseamericans in  light of the verbal interaction and rapport building function of the counseling  relationship (chan, lam, wong, leung, & fang, 1988).
so she changed his pcp to an american doctor who specializes in tbi.
" for many chinese, asking "did you eat?" or "where are you  heading?" is a way of greeting or starting a conversation, as when  americans say "how are you today?
shanghai cishu chu ban she (1994,p. 108) defined rehabilitation as comprehensively and appropriately utilizing medical, social, educational, vocational and other measures to train and re–train individuals with disabilities in order to reduce the consequences caused by the factors of disabilities, to improve their functions and abilities, therefore, for them to integrate into the society with equal rights, value and dignity as human beings.
no part of this publication may be reproduced or  distributed an any form or by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval  system without the prior written permission of the publisher, except as  permitted under the united states copyright act of 1976.
as soon as the  conversation started, however she realized that she did not understand a word  the chinese family was saying.
sue & sue (1999) discussed the concept of high–low context communication proposed by hall (1976).
they  said that even though they had this wish for a long time, they were not able to  make their needs known because of language barriers.
joe lost all his former friends after his injury but he has been visiting chinatown on a daily basis and has formed some new "tea friends," friends with whom he drinks tea and chats.
in lipson, j., dibble, s., &  minarik, p. (editors),culture and nursing care: a pocket guide (pp.  74–81).
later it became the day dedicated to late loved ones.
it is the means by which we think, learn, and  express ourselves.
this author uses the word "china" to refer to mainland china,  hong kong and taiwan.
food is viewed as important in maintaining balance of yin (cold) and yang (hot) in the body.
why does she have to  know everywhere i go?
after seeing his new pcp  once, joe asked to be transferred back to his chinese doctor since he felt much  more comfortable with her.
that is,  there are differences between people who originated in hong kong versus those  who originated in mainland china or taiwan.
the chinese new year is popularly known as the spring festival because it marks the beginning of spring.
most of the  case examples presented in this monograph are derived from the author's own  experience.
for instance, mental illness is viewed as being caused by deeds from past lives or acts against the nature of the universe.
employees enjoy two paid days off.
in recent years, the open–door policy and the economic boom in china have brought another wave of western influence and urbanization (lee, 1996) which have placed additional stress on traditional families..
the city and county  departments of health and mayor's office of large cities usually have a  department of minority or emerging majority affairs where you maybe able to  obtain resource information about a specific ethnic group.
many chinese are buddhists and attend occasional services, practice  rituals, and visit a temple on a regular basis.
duan wu (dragon boat) festival (fifth of the fifth month)
jim's mother has to work seven days a week (five days a week in a chinese restaurant and two days as a home attendant for a chinese home care agency) to earn a living.
the sampling indicated that 5 percent of the population or 63 million people had visual, hearing, physical, mental impairments and/or mental illness (see table 1).
thenhi program includes outpatient and inpatient services, chinese  medicine, dental care, childbirth, physical therapy, preventive health care,  home care, rehabilitation for chronic mental illness,etc.
since 1979, when its "open door policy" was established, it has been engaged in an effort to reform its economy.
under therdcc, three subcommittees focus  on employment, education and personnel; accessibility and transportation, and  public education (lam, 1992).
emotional problems are understood to be associated with weak character.
they also suggested  assertiveness training for carol.
the reestablishment of diplomatic relations between the united states and the people's republic of china in 1978 provided an opportunity for students and professionals from china to study and lecture in the united states, and many of them elected to stay (lee, 1996).
chinese women hold positions as factory workers and managers in significant  numbers, although it is still uncommon for a woman to be a general manager or  board member of a state enterprise or a director of a chinese institution or  agency.
most husbands and wives sought employment in labor–intense, low–capital services, such as garment sweatshops and restaurants.
this marks the founding of the chinese communist party in 1921 in shanghai and is usually characterized by front–page editorials in major government newspapers.
the chinese communist party's birthday (july 1) this marks the founding of the chinese communist party in 1921 in shanghai  and is usually characterized by front–page editorials in major government  newspapers.
culturally appropriate intervention  strategies.
another belief is that unbalanced diet, eating food that should be avoided, or emotional disturbance during pregnancy will cause illness or disability of the newborn.
lee (1996) emphasizes that as a result of the social, political and economic changes described above, there is no one "typical" chinese family.
rehabilitation psychology. 42(4), 302–316.
promoting cultural competence in  children's mental health services.
eden, founded in 1982, was the first organization to provide the disabled in taiwan with vocational training.
this festival is said to honor the memory of qu yuan, a great patriot poet  of the state of chu during the warring states period (475–221bc).
(1988, p. 23) concluded that "these different expectations of counseling and low levels of self–disclosure and emotional expressions are often in direct conflict with the expectations of individual western therapists.
in julia, m.c. (editor), multicultural awareness in the health care professionals (pp.  77–110).
table 3: communication style differences note: adapted from "counseling the culturally different: theory and practice" (third edition,p. 89) by d.w. sue & d. due, 1999.
sun was able to understand cantonese, which  was the only language that her parents spoke, and a few words in english.
there are differences in acculturation among chinese immigrants from different parts of the world, between foreign–born versus american-born chinese americans and between different generations of chinese americans, but the focus here will be on the common elements in their cultural backgrounds.
nature china fund for the disabled 3/15/1984 a national  foundation that manages benefits of people with disabilities chinese  disabled persons' federation 8/11/1988 represents the common needs of chinese  with disabilities; advocates for the human rights of people with disabilities;  educates, serves, and collaborates with the government in the development and  management of the di sability field.
the third wave: the reunited family (1943–1964)
after dinner, the whole family sits up for the  night while having fun playing cards or board games or watchingtv programs  dedicated to the occasion.
they would periodically check as to whether sun's parents were satisfied with the day treatment program and the parents would always say "yes," unable to express their wish for a more appropriate setting for their daughter.
available:  http://www.chinatoday.com.
women's liberation: the taiwanese  experience.
among the social services provided by these informal committees and association is mediation of many family quarrels.
people customarily went on an  excursion to "ta qing" (step on grass).
americans are taught to look at others when speaking to them.
there are also  "overseas chinese" who emigrate from countries like japan, korea,  philippines, singapore, malaysia, thailand, mexico, canada and many other  countries in south america and europe.
since rehabilitation counselors may be viewed as  authority figures and chinese culture emphasizes controlling one's emotions, it  may be very difficult for chinese consumers to initiate conversations (chan,  lam, wong, leung, & fang, 1988).
he is expected to take  charge of everything.
the law changed in 1930 to allowed wives of chinese merchants and chinese women married to american citizens before 1924 to immigrate to the united states.
programs involving psychological counseling, psychotherapy and behavior  modification have been set up in many general hospitals, universities and  schools (chen, 1995).
this case illustrates several good lessons: do not assume that immigrants who came to this country decades ago and  speak english well know the american medical, social and rehabilitation concept  or systems well.
also, due to their accepting and non–confrontational nature, they may seem to be contented with an arrangement even if they are not.
taiwan, a strategic partner of theu.s. during the cold war era, also is strongly influenced by theu.s. health care and rehabilitation systems.
categories number out of the total population surveyed percentage of the total population surveyed males with  disabilities 176,888 11.20 percent households with members with  disabilities 66,902 18.11 percent hearing & linguistically impaired  26,518 1.68 percent physically disabled 11,305 0.72 percent visually  impaired 11,300 0.72 percent mentally retarded 15,235 0.97 percent
they said that even though they had this wish for a long time, they were not able to make their needs known because of language barriers.
after two months of intensive rehabilitation, jim was  transferred to a skilled nursing facility with atbi unit for extended care and  further rehabilitation.
chinese have a strong sense of community.
in many areas of china disability is viewed as a punishment for the  disabled person's parental or past–life sins.
sue & sue (1999) compared communication style differences among asian  americans, both white and black in table 3.
therefore, the military,  labor, and government employees were the biggest beneficiaries.
profile: people's republic of china topic data population: 1.26 billion religions: buddhism, confucianism, taoism, islam,  catholicism, moslem, christianity, judaism language: mandarin (the  official and common speech), cantonese (largely used in southern china) and  various dialects size: one–fifteenth of the world's land mass  ("china today", 2000)
it is important for us to consider the above–mentioned general chinese communication styles since they may affect our perception and ability to work with chinese consumers, but it is equally important to remember that these style differences are generalization(s) of traditional cultural/communication behaviors and will not apply to every individual of a specific background.
sun has been attending the special program  ever since.
chen (1995) found that in mainland china, state–run inpatient  services for the mentally ill have about 140,000 psychiatric beds available in  800 psychiatric institutions, or 1.17 beds for every 10,000 chinese.
in mcgoldrick, m., giordano, j. &  pearce, j. (editors),ethnicity family therapy (pp. 248–267).
culture has a very strong impact upon our understanding of disability and of the goals and processes of rehabilitation.
this author worked as a case manager for a 25 year–old young woman, sun, a chinese american who was legally blind, non–verbal and diagnosed with moderate mental retardation.
ting & fitzgerald (1996) found some increases in awareness and  knowledge of occupational health and rehabilitation matters by legislative  councilors, district board members, labor union members, and employees.
it is expected that the  guest will turn down the offers to show his politeness.
folklore tells of a beautiful fairy living on the moon in a spacious but cold crystal palace with her sole companion, a jade rabbit.
his  service providers and vocational counselors find it very difficult to work with  him since they can neither set realistic goals with him nor motivate him to  achieve one step at a time.
the forces of industrialization westernization, urbanization, and economic affluence brought a change in their social and family structures.
these activities have given ms. liu a keen insight into the difficulties in bridging the cultural gap between the rehabilitation service provider and persons from china, as well as strategies for overcoming these difficulties.
rubinstein, m. (editor).
although most families share many of the same beliefs and traditions  but also have their differences and variations in values.
boston, toronto, london: little, brown and company procedure of shanghai municipality on the dispersed placement for the employment of the handicapped. (2000).
mainland china has many programs, procedures, laws and policies that are  mandated and enforced by the government.
they may also fear that their children will be  stigmatized and laughed at by "normal" american children.
the first wave: the pioneer family (1840–1919)
communication between consumers and service providers sung (1985) found that the language barrier was the problem most commonly  cited by the immigrant chinese.
for  instance, in mainland china, massage,tai chi, chi gong, magnetic treatment and  acupuncture are part of physical therapy.
in spite of the large numbers of chinese in the u.s., most americans have a  very limited knowledge of chinese language and culture.
her also reported that chen expressed his sadness at the current conditions for taiwan's children with mental retardation, since fewer than three percent are lucky enough to receive early treatment.
in traditional chinese medicine, humankind is viewed as a microcosm within a universal macrocosm.
they now address anyone who needs assistance.
now the big event of  dragon boat contest is a legacy of such activity.
the majority han nationality, the  largest ethnic group in mainland china, practices buddhism, christianity and  taoism (china today, 2000) and all chinese are greatly influenced by  confucianism as well.
at midnight, the whole sky will be lit up by fireworks and firecrackers.
rehabilitation market segmentation and positioning of rehabilitation providers.
journal of multicultural counseling & development.
later she learned that the family only spoke hakka, a taiwanese dialect.
the housing locator also started working with chinese brokers and landlords in chinese communities.
it was started in the early eighties as an effort to reverse the anti–intellectual sentiment nurtured by the "cultural revolution."
before 1978, when the u.s. established diplomatic relations with mainland  china and crossed its recognition of taiwan in favor of that of the people's  republic, taiwanese comprised most of the 20 thousand per year quota.
moreover, chinese–americans tend to  view counselors as authorities and expect them to help or simply solve their  problems for them as opposed to offering empathy and nurturance through the  counseling experience.
joe feels, however, that no one ever clearly explained in language and terms he can understand, why the training is so essential.
since the chinese tend to go to extremes so as not to offend or embarrass  others, they may seem ambiguous or "wishy–washy.
many  initially settled in or near chinatowns in the major metropolitan areas.
another example relates to the chinese way of greeting.
china's long history includes eras of primitive  society, slave society, feudalism and semi–feudalism,  semi–colonialism and the present socialist society ("china today,  2000").
we hope that this monograph will be useful to you in your  work with persons born in china.
chronologically, the 1940s were marked by the development of physiotherapy,  occupational therapy and prosthetics.
they believe in harmony and tend to avoid confrontation.
jim told the service coordinator that he wanted to live in a  specific neighborhood in brooklyn, new york, which is a predominantly  african–american neighborhood.
due  to their unfamiliarity with and lack of understanding of western medicine  and/or the medical, social and rehabilitation system, community members prefer  to seek medical help first from a chinese doctor in their community.
the sense of being part of something greater than oneself gives the chinese a feeling of belonging and security.
for instance, to most americans, smiling generally means agreement, a positive reaction and liking.
chinese people drink plenty of hot liquids, especially tea and chicken soup, when sick.
shi yong zhu can bai ke–ai xin de feng xian.
he is of chinese descent and immigrated to theu.s. in his high school  years.
only with genuine understanding of the chinese  culture and subcultural differences can american rehabilitation professionals  effectively serve individuals with special needs within the  chinese–american community.
recently, she transferred to an excellent independent living and vocational  training residential facility (dong, 2000).
be aware of the consumer's community and try to find services within that  community.
the unit that does not fulfil the specified quota for the job placement of  the handicapped must submit 1.6 percent of its gross salary account for the  previous year to an employment guarantee fund for the handicapped.
chinese cultural studies: philosophy and religion in china.
although, there were chinese in the united states prior to 1800, they began to arrive in large numbers in the 1840s in response to the demand for cheap labor provoked by the discovery of gold in california and the construction of railroads (sue & sue, 1999).
now celebrations usually take the form of parties in amusement parks by day and fire–works and grand television programs at night.
child care, child protection services, campaigns against drug abuse, services for the disabled and low–cost housing are just some of the services made available by these laws (copper, 1999).
this belief is somewhat contradictory to that of buddhism, but the two religions co–exist peacefully in china.
the growth  in the number of women civilian officials is also quite remarkable.
the same section of the previously mentionedworld journal for instance, there was an article about a 29–year–old lady, lan mao, who has been loved by numerous health care professionals and strangers despite her severe disabilities.
the  mother believed that the lamb she ate passed the "shaking of the  lamb" to her child.
for various social, and economic reasons, historically  there has not been much emphasis on disability issues.
table 1: 1987 census  (sample was 1.5/1000 of the entire population)
the first  child mental health research center was established in nanjing in 1984 (bond,  1986).
joe and his sister fight  all the time but are inseparable.
their involvement will be vital to the success of the  rehabilitation process (ong, 1993).
conduct outreach in schools, senior centers and churches/temples.
due to the reform in immigration policies, many chinese men returned to their native land to find wives, who were usually 10–20 years younger than them.
the sense of being part of something greater than oneself gives the chinese  a feeling of belonging and security.
john stone for their generous support as well as encouragement.
they tend to seek  help from immediate and extended family first, before turning to neighbors,  communities and professionals.
the host will not accept no for an answer and will continue to offer the fine food/drinks until the end of the dinner.
eden offers vocational training to people with  disabilities in the moderate to severe range.
he remained in coma for over six weeks.
the purpose of this monograph is to present the unique cultural backgrounds, sub–cultures, religions, socio–cultural milieu and rehabilitation systems in mainland china, taiwan and hong kong and compare the practice and delivery of rehabilitation services in china and the united states.
journal of comparative family studies.
later it became the day  dedicated to late loved ones.
american counseling in the mind of a chinese counselor.
available:  http://www.census.gov. wang, m–h, chan, f., thomas, k.r., lin, s–h & larson, p.  (1997).
for instance, grief or having temper tantrums during pregnancy is  perceived to possibly cause the mother to lose her baby or to produce a baby  with disabilities.
wong (2000) reported that there are 11.82 million people with mental  retardation alone in mainland china today.
in today's china, it is still very common for three generations to live under one roof.
lc cultures place  emphasis on the verbal part of the communication (hall, 1976, sue & sue,  1999).lc cultures are associated with opportunism, being more  individual–than group–oriented and greater focused on rules of law  and procedures (smith, 1981, sue & sue, 1999).
street clinics, the most immediate level of  health care in urban neighborhoods, also serve as places where people with  personal problems can go for discussion or help.
chinese usually eat three meals a day, the largest at dinner (chin, 1996).
case study 1 zhang (1994) used the following case study to argue that american  counseling is deeply rooted in individualism often at the expenses of family  and community.
the former hong kong government and voluntary agencies worked closely on an integrated and coordinated approach to rehabilitation.
sue & sue (1999) believe that asian americans, african americans, hispanics, american indians and some other minority groups in the united states emphasize high–context (hc) cues.
eden makes an effort to change public perception of people with disabilities through publications (including books, short promotional films, videotapes,tv and radio programs) and outreach activities.
mental health is believed to be achieved through self–discipline,  exercise of power and the avoidance of morbid thoughts.
this monograph is part of a series developed by cirrie at the university at  buffalo.
good luck symbols may be displayed in homes the role of women in china changed dramatically when mao "equalized" the sexes immediately following the founding of people's republic china in 1949.
she started working with people with traumatic brain injury (tbi) in  1995 and has served as coordinator of different traumatic brain injury projects  for the association for the help of retarded children–new york city  chapter and currently as a regional resource development specialist for the new  york state department of healthtbi waiver program.
his service providers and vocational counselors find it very difficult to work with him since they can neither set realistic goals with him nor motivate him to achieve one step at a time.
jim is a 24 year–old, single male of chinese descent.
according to the chinese culture, a  morally responsible son or daughter bears the duty of taking care of parents,  even if it means sacrifice.
through september 1989, there were 111,298 persons with disabilities registered with the central registry, or 1.9 percent of the total population of 5.8 million.
those who came here independently to pursue higher education are much savvier.
the china fund for the  disabled was not established until 1984.
mainland china is at a stage at which it is pushing for the establishment of segregated special education schools, while americans have embraced the mainstreaming and are working for inclusion.
with the exception of medical rehabilitation, about 70 percent of direct services for people with disabilities in hong kong are provided by voluntary organizations.
it is forbidden for a mother who just gave birth to a baby to drink ice water.
many women were instrumental in the fight to liberate the country from the nationalists and from foreign domination and were prominent in the party and in the state administration throughout the country.
jim told the service coordinator that he wanted to live in a specific neighborhood in brooklyn, new york, which is a predominantly african–american neighborhood.
in the example of the mental health system, kaplan, sobin, & andors (1979) found that one of the major justifications for keeping china's formal mental health care system so small is that there are so many informal avenues to help people with the kinds of problems that might, under other circumstances, lead them to seek help from a mental health establishment.
a heavenly general and friend would occasionally pay her a visit, bringing along fragrant wine.
the chinese exclusion act of 1882, which was not repealed until 1943 when china became an american ally at the beginning of world warii, barred chinese laborers and their relatives (including wives) from entering the united states.
in mcgoldrick, m., giordano, j. & pearce, j. (editors),ethnicity family therapy (pp. 248–267).
promote respite, camping and recreational programs that are sensitive to  cultural needs of chinese communities (omrdd, 1994).
she is often depressed since she  has been struggling to do her best, but feels she gets little cooperation and  appreciation from joe.
he  is also eager to help his sister immigrate to theu.s. and was referred to a  local chinese agency that handles immigration matters.
case study 3 joe is a 55–year–old man who sustained a traumatic brain injury  (tbi) from a gunshot wound when he was mugged on the way home from work in  1991.
the discriminatory immigration act of 1924 allowed american citizens of chinese ancestry to work in the united states but without their wives and families.
jim was born in mainland china and immigrated to the united states with his parents in 1997.
population of people with disabilities (hong kong) a computerized central registry for rehabilitation was set up by the hong  kong government in 1983 to systematically collect data on persons with  disabilities in need of rehabilitation services.
lantern  exhibits, lion and dragon dances, and eatingtang yuan (ball–shaped boiled  sweet sticky rice dumplings with delicious fillings) mark this day.
under therdcc, three subcommittees focus on employment, education and personnel; accessibility and transportation, and public education (lam, 1992).
chinese traditional holidays the calendar the chinese traditional holidays follow is organized according  to a unique lunar–solar system, different from the western calendar.
use chinese media, such as chinese newspapers, radio stations and tv  channels when conducting outreach.
even though he was had been assured of the good intentions of his new doctor and the purpose of the exams, joe strongly felt that he had been better informed by his chinese doctor and could trust only her.
as every school child knows, china is the most populous nation on our  planet.
misunderstanding of or lack of knowledge about a specific disability or  illness can cause a tremendous amount of fear, hostility, alienation and blame.
in 1943 after years, even decades of separation changes in the immigration law meant that many wives were reunited with their husbands for the first time.
at present, joe would like to move out of his current apartment and live by himself within a chinese community.
unlike  the earlier immigrants of humble rural origin, many of the taiwan arrivals came  from well–to–do and/or well–educated families and many were  students who, upon graduation from american universities, stayed on to work in  the united states (pan, 1990).
journal of rehabilitation.
china: an overview china has one of the four oldest civilizations in the world and a written  history of 4,000 years.
joe worked in the food service industry prior to his injury  and is extremely eager to resume work.
even though this rehabilitation concept was adopted from western countries,  the chinese system includes traditional chinese treatment methods.
the program plan is reviewed  annually by a joint committee of government departments and  non–government organizations.
work with interpreters and/or translators.
the asian american health forum  (1990) revealed that more than 63 percent of chinese americans are  foreign–born, 23 percent do not speak english well, 72.5 percent speak a  language other than english at home and 53 percent live in the western united  states.
hong kong: oxford university press.
a neighbor even moved  after learning the boy hadaids.
baltimore, md: paul h. brookes  publishing company.
now the anniversary is often used to promote better relationships between the army and the civilians, relationships believed to have helped defeat the nationalists in the 1949 civil war.
new year's day (january 1) employees enjoy a paid day off and families visit each other.
the plan was for jim to move with his mother into a two–bedroom  apartment.
supper is a feast, with  all family members together.
yamashiro, g., & matsuoka, j.k. (1997).
spring festival (the chinese new year) (first day of the first month)
sun was transferred to this program and appeared to be happier as she was more comfortable with the environment and was able to engage in activities designed for the blind.
best practices: outreach strategies in multicultural communities.
copper, j. f. (1999).
they completed of a ten–year rehabilitation program plan in 1976 and in 1977 published a white paper titled "integrating the disabled into the community: a united effort."
in julia, m.c. (editor), multicultural awareness in the health care professionals (pp.
if a consumer's parents or other older relatives are participating in a conversation or meeting with a rehabilitation counselor, it is extremely important to give the older family members equal attention while discussing the care of the younger family member.
women tend  to defer marriage and the divorce rate has increased (rubinstein, 1994).
as the older brother he thinks he should support the family and be the one to give orders.
as a result, joe often yells at sue, "i don't need  you telling me what to do!"
taiwanese  students have been settling in theu.s. using the quota since the 1960's.
the revised chinese constitution of 1982 and the law on the protection of  the disabled persons (1992) emphasizes that families, work units and community  organizations must share the responsibility for caring for the disabled.
"in traditional asian society, many interactions are understandable  only in light of high–context cues and situations" (sue & sue,  1999,p.
incense burning and the eating of special foods usually occurs on special occasions.
for instance, consuming cold fluid while having oily food is believed to cause diarrhea.
women tend to defer marriage and the divorce rate has increased (rubinstein, 1994).
(1994).encyclopedia of practical help for individuals with disabilities–the dedication of love.
eden obtains funds from private fundraising activities, government subsidies or government commissioned projects and eden's own business operations.
they  also pointed out that attitude changes towards occupational rehabilitation  services had created opportunities to expand services in this area.
he does not trust or like most of his service providers.
chinese cultural studies: philosophy and religion  in china.
hence they are more independent and  better informed and are likely to be active advocates for a loved one in need.
with the social worker's help, jim chose a waiver service coordinator, who put a service plan together for community re–entry and worked with thetbi program's housing locator to find an apartment for him.
many people will travel home for a  family reunion from all parts of the country.
gentle and friendly tones of greetings are helpful.
only with genuine understanding of the chinese culture and subcultural differences can american rehabilitation professionals effectively serve individuals with special needs within the chinese–american community.
jim's mother has to work seven days a week  (five days a week in a chinese restaurant and two days as a home attendant for  a chinese home care agency) to earn a living.
traditionally, the mother is not allowed to drink or eat anything cold for the first month after she gives birth.
in addition, the bureau of national health  insurance (bnhi) offers attractive commissions to medical teams willing to  serve in remote regions with scarce health resources (national health insurance  profile, 1999).
) the first census of individuals with disabilities in mainland china was  taken in 1987.
best practices: outreach strategies in multicultural  communities.
wu, x. (2000, july 2).
in recent decades, however, that has been reversed.
people customarily went on an excursion to "ta qing" (step on grass).
" the language barrier is another problem when counseling chineseamericans in light of the verbal interaction and rapport building function of the counseling relationship (chan, lam, wong, leung, & fang, 1988).
it is forbidden for a mother who just  gave birth to a baby to drink ice water.
although most families share many of the same beliefs and traditions but also have their differences and variations in values.
mental health in china.
the description of the asian–american way of communication can apply to that of the chinese.
qu yuan drowned himself to protest the actions of his emperor who had given in to the bully state of chin.
sue feels that she really doesn't understand the medical, rehabilitation or social systems and is at a loss when dealing with all the jargon.
for fear that fish might consume his body, the people of chu rowed their boats to the place of his death and threw rice dumplings wrapped in bamboo leaves into the river to feed the fish.
unlike  ning li, lan was born in beijing, the capital city of mainland china, where she  lives today.
they value their own culture and religion but are open and pragmatic towards the religions and cultures of others.
be aware that married women from mainland china generally carry their maiden names.
joe is a 55–year–old man who sustained a traumatic brain injury (tbi) from a gunshot wound when he was mugged on the way home from work in 1991.
sue, d. w. & sue, d. (1999).
they are likely to experience from their chinese consumers different expectations of and different requirements for job placement.
wong, w. (2000, april 30).
the sampling indicated that 5  percent of the population or 63 million people had visual, hearing, physical,  mental impairments and/or mental illness (see table 1).
in d.w. sue (editor),counseling the culturally different: theory and practice (pp. 141–185).
as a result of the communist takeover of mainland china in 1949, confucian thought and religion were banned.
they complain that joe wants to find a paid job  right away but does not want to go through any training.
she  seemed to be comfortable there, but on the occasion of a home visit to see her  and her parents in their chinatown apartment, it became apparent that sun's  parents really preferred that she attend a special school for the blind.
recommendations to rehabilitation service providers be aware of cultural variables that affect clinical practice the contrasting concepts of the western individualistic (i.e., independent)  versus the chinese collectivistic (i.e., interdependent) orientations have a  strong impact on providing rehabilitation services to chinese–americans  with disabilities.
a heavenly general and friend would  occasionally pay her a visit, bringing along fragrant wine.
cultural and historical perspectives in counseling  blacks.
it  is important for us to consider the above–mentioned general chinese  communication styles since they may affect our perception and ability to work  with chinese consumers, but it is equally important to remember that these  style differences are generalization(s) of traditional cultural/communication  behaviors and will not apply to every individual of a specific background.
in order to discourage discriminatory practices imposed on people with  disabilities, a law passed in 1990 calls for state–run enterprises to  hire at least one individual with a disability for every fifty employees and  for private companies to hire one for every one hundred employees.
this demonstrates how the chinese used to view disability.
it was started in the early eighties as an effort to reverse the  anti–intellectual sentiment nurtured by the "cultural  revolution."
the parents may fear that their children cannot receive an  appropriate education or get the attention they need in "regular"  classroom/school settings.
a nine–year–old boy, ning li's miserable world.
it recognizes four degrees: first degree (iq under 20 or 25), second degree (iq between 20–35 or 25–40), third degree (iq between 35–50 or 40–55) and the fourth degree (iq 50–70 or 55–75) (shanghai books publisher, 1994).
copper points out that in the early 1980s  the government passed three pieces of legislation to aid the disadvantaged  population: the aged welfare law the handicapped welfare law, and the social  assistance law.
he questioned the suitability of american counseling strategies  for other cultures.
taiwan, a strategic partner of theu.s. during the cold war era, also is  strongly influenced by theu.s. health care and rehabilitation systems.
she stressed that she wanted to live only in a chinese neighborhood where  she would be able to communicate since she does not speak a word of english.
conversely, their chinese counterparts (withhc orientation) may view such behavior as rude and blunt.
they are divided primarily into hospital– or community–based rehabilitation centers.
just december in america, this is the best business season of the year and people will pour out their money to buy presents, decorations, food and clothing.
a communist–led army staged the first armed uprising in chinese communist history against the nationalists on august 1, 1927.
it is noteworthy  thatnhi offers services to the disadvantaged and patients who need medical care  most.
the client– centered approach used by many  rehabilitation counselors in the united states may create discomfort and  confusion for some chinese consumers since this approach lacks the structure  that they may expect and are used to.
with that in mind, the service coordinator and housing locator started working  with both jim and his mother utilizing chinese interpreters.
there are differences in acculturation among chinese immigrants from  different parts of the world, between foreign–born versus american-born  chinese americans and between different generations of chinese americans, but  the focus here will be on the common elements in their cultural backgrounds.
these professionals should have  both bilingual and bi–cultural skills as well as knowledge of  rehabilitation vocabulary and concepts so that they can provide accurate  translation.
he thought the parents  needed to be more sensitive to their daughter's needs and more aware of the  difficulties they had caused her.
thenhi program includes outpatient and inpatient services, chinese medicine, dental care, childbirth, physical therapy, preventive health care, home care, rehabilitation for chronic mental illness,etc.
joe feels, however,  that no one ever clearly explained in language and terms he can understand, why  the training is so essential.
eden obtains funds from private fundraising  activities, government subsidies or government commissioned projects and eden's  own business operations.
alexandra, va: american counseling association.
because he is so eager to be gainfully employed, he tends to put considerations of all his cognitive, medical and physical limitations aside.
" it is always helpful for providers to take the time to learn as much as  possible about the family's unique cultural and linguistic backgrounds.
the author wishes to thank the editors, her three colleagues (dr. marie  cavallo,dr. shelly levy & amy sigona) and the three reviewers for their  most helpful comments on earlier drafts of the monograph.
a misunderstanding ofhc and lc orientations can lead to conflicts of interest since communicators from these two types of culture often do not understand each other.
hospitalized for 27 years, lan mao is finally  discharged.
china's  education law of 1986 made it obligatory to provide special education for  individuals with mental retardation (chen, 1995).
mentally ill 2,907 0.18 percent note: table contents were translated and summarized from shanghai books  publisher (1994,pp.
they respect authority and elders and are patient with their fellows.
it is highly important to acknowledge and respect  the dialectal differences among chinese people (omrdd, 1994).
the chinese are very proud of their society.
" the traditional chinese term for disability is "canfei," meaning "handicap" and "useless," or "canji," meaning "handicap" and "illness."
jim's father was so disturbed by the accident that he returned to mainland  china for psychiatric treatment.
this publication of the center for international rehabilitation research information and exchange is supported by funds received from the national institute on disability and rehabilitation research of theu.s. department of education under grant number h133a990010.
with the social worker's help,  jim chose a waiver service coordinator, who put a service plan together for  community re–entry and worked with thetbi program's housing locator to  find an apartment for him.
san francisco:ucsf nursing press.
fluids chinese people drink plenty of hot liquids, especially tea and chicken  soup, when sick.
taiwan retained its right to a 20 thousand per–year u.s. immigration quota when the u.s. normalized its relations with mainland china in 1978, and the people's republic was given its own quota of 20 thousand.
most husbands and wives
if the client feared that her parents would not  tolerate having an "outsider" involved in this family matter, zhang  suggested inviting the client's relatives or friends to come in and discuss  intervention strategies they could use to help the parents come to terms of the  difficulties they have caused their daughter.
jacob chen, chief executive officer of the eden social welfare foundation, points out that if children with mental retardation can receive early treatment before the age of three, the benefits to them will be ten times greater than with later treatment.
the hospital received many donations that paid for all the expenses of her stay  including her medical bills.
the first census of individuals with disabilities in mainland china was taken in 1987.
following the passage of  this act, chinese immigration reached its peak (pan, 1990).
filial piety and respect for the elderly were seriously questioned by red guard youths.
qu yuan  drowned himself to protest the actions of his emperor who had given in to the  bully state of chin.
they value their own  culture and religion but are open and pragmatic towards the religions and  cultures of others.
qing ming (means "pure & bright" in chinese) (fifth of the  24 solar terms) originally this was a celebration of spring.
subsequent to the establishment of crrc, many rehabilitation centers were  established in the country's large urban cities (crrc, 2000).
it is a complex, fascinating story of change, adaptation, and survival that reveals how the chinese family system is affected by the immense power of political, legal, socialand economic forces (lee, 1996).
interpreting nonverbal expressions can be quite difficult, however.
it is believed that as many as two million christians practice their faith in china (compton's living encyclopedia, 1995) and a great many chinese converted to christianity after immigrating to the united states.
this may not be the case.
it is important,  however, to find out from the consumer which medical professionals he/she  wants.
currently, china, including hong kong and taiwan, is one of the principal countries of origin of immigrants to theu.s.
that meant that a total of 40,600 chinese could come  to theu.s. each year (pan, 1990).
new york: m. e. sharpe, incorporated.
national health insurance profile.
in the example of the mental health system, kaplan, sobin, & andors  (1979) found that one of the major justifications for keeping china's formal  mental health care system so small is that there are so many informal avenues  to help people with the kinds of problems that might, under other  circumstances, lead them to seek help from a mental health establishment.
in the view of this author one of  the major reasons that mainland chinese immigrants underuse existing mental  health services is that in china people with mental illness are commonly cared  for by their families and/or depend on community support rather than  institutional care.
filial piety and  respect for the elderly were seriously questioned by red guard youths.
when the author started working with her she had been attending a traditional day treatment program for people with mental retardation for a few years.
the second wave: the small business family (1920–1940) the discriminatory immigration act of 1924 allowed american citizens of  chinese ancestry to work in the united states but without their wives and  families.
schools rejected, neighbors ignored.
while the chinese immigrant population declined, those remaining survived in the face of anti–miscegenation laws, special taxes directed against them, institutional racism, persistent humiliation, racial violence, loss of property, loss of livelihood and sometimes loss of life (chan, 1998).
published law and established organizations, foundations, and committees; peoples republic of china (prc) name start date
most of the case examples presented in this monograph are derived from the author's own experience.
instead of turkey, the chinese family feasts on good wine, moon–cakes and other delicacies.
available:  http://www.index–china.com/index–english/people–religions–s.html lee, e. (1996).
another  belief is that unbalanced diet, eating food that should be avoided, or  emotional disturbance during pregnancy will cause illness or disability of the  newborn.
very early the next morning, children greet their parents and receive " hong boa," cash wrapped up in red paper packages.
baltimore, md: paul h. brookes publishing company.
among  the social services provided by these informal committees and association is  mediation of many family quarrels.
recommendations accessing the community when accessing the community beware of the  following: there are sub–cultures within the general chinese culture.
prior to that, little attention or assistance was given to those with disabilities (ong, 1993).
it tells people that  life is suffering.
profile: people's republic of china topic data chinese migration to the u.s. has a history of more than 150 years.
zhang (1994), a counselor from china, could not understand why putting the family's interests before one's own is considered not correct or "normal" in the american culture.
to complicate the  situation, there are many different dialects in the chinese language.
islam insists that their god is the only god in the universe (lam, 2000).
the joint council for the physically and mentally disabled, a  division of the hong kong council for social services, coordinates voluntary  rehabilitation organizations and represents their interests in policy making  with the hong kong government (lam, 1992).
another group of immigrants to the u.s. were refugees of chinese decent  from vietnam, laos, and cambodia.
china rehabilitation research center  10/28/1988
it was also an  anti–confucian movement as well as one that promoted western scientific  and democratic ideas.
it has been estimated that more than 68 million chinese still consider themselves buddhists, though it is not likely that they all practice the religion regularly (compton's living encyclopedia, 1995).
asian american cultural dimensions in rehabilitation  counseling.
this monograph is part of a series developed by cirrie at the university at buffalo.
there was an additional quota of 600 (increased to five thousand on october 1, 1987) immigrants from hong kong.
islam was brought to china mainly from central asia, and by 1995, there  were believed to be more than four million chinese muslims (compton's living  encyclopedia, 1995).
as a  result of the communist takeover of mainland china in 1949, confucian thought  and religion were banned.
for instance, mainland china, a communist country that went through ten years of cultural revolution and many other socialist movements, has adopted many aspects of the western medical/rehabilitation system and it has aggressively developed its own system over the past two decades.
islam insists that their god is the only god in the  universe (lam, 2000).