i mentioned it on my links list and i will mention this blog in the future as it is, simply, a great and interesting blog.
this blog aims to be a  place to all those who are interested in chinese medicine- those of you who are  interested in this field, those who are students of this wonderful philosophy,  those who want to be students but just didn’t get round to it, those who  are patients and want to know more about what their practitioner just did when  he used that needle around the elbow… chinese medicine notes will  provide important information on various topics, and hopefully it will become  one of your regular stops on the world wide web, giving you interesting things  to read while taking a break from work or drinking your first cup of coffee in  the morning (or herbal tea, which ever you prefer).
of course he fails to mention that the needles are sterile and are not to be used more than once.
in the book he shows, among other things, how cm can be used to treat the shen,  and he brings us dr. shen’s theory- his own teacher and mentor.
we  foundthis article on a website called quack watch.
there is no “injection of sterile water, procaine, morphine,  vitamins or homeopathic solutions through the needles”.
tags: blog, chinese medicine filed under: general notes, practitioners notes newer entries » articles on chinese medicine tools an interview with bob flaws on blue poppy shen tong zhu yu tang on blue poppy sexual life in chinese medicine he shou wu for alzheimer’s disease- new study read all news...
so we will try to give you a number of ideas for that good decision, giving  you titles we think just might help you along the way and make your first year  easier.
what & why posted on november 11, 2007 by yael7 comments hi everyone, we are happy to be writing these words, as we are starting the  new blog which we hope will be a main source of information about chinese  medicine for you all.
we surf the net in  search of more information about chinese medicine on a regular basis.
tags: books, chinese medicine, chinese philosophy filed under: practitioners notes, students notes posted on november 11, 2007 by yael7 comments
did he fail  to mention this because he didn’t want to show something that both  medicines have in common?
chinese medicine blog- about everything that is chinese medicine.
as i see their benefits and think that they are very powerful, studying them is almost like a punishment, and let’s face
when studying chinese medicine, one should  remember to buy books, but one should always try to make a good decision on  what to buy.
dr. stephen barrett did  not fail us, and indeed, his article is based on more false things than true.
acupuncture will be the winner any day.
i don’t mean to put down  herbs, i really don’t, i just don’t like them very much.
hi everyone, we are happy to be writing these words, as we are starting the new blog which we hope will be a main source of information about chinese medicine for you all.
it- it’s just not fun!
there is no mention of tuina either.
i mentioned it on my links list and i  will mention this blog in the future as it is, simply, a great and interesting  blog.
between you and me, if he would have done his homework properly, he would know better than to mention homeopathy, because than he would know that you don’t mix cm with homeopathy.
after all, if he mentioned the chinese philosophy,  the “mess” that reflects from his article regarding qi and  acupuncture points could have been avoided, the reader would know that  there’s something behind it all.
tags: acupucnture points, acupuncture, chinese herbs, chinese medicine, herbs, students filed under: general notes, practitioners notes, students notes posted on january 18, 2008 by yael7 comments i must be honest with you: if this is the question, acupuncture vs. herbs-
at first we went through the article, thinking this is yet another person who thinks he knows something about cm (but really doesn’t), but we saw that the person writing the article has very strong opinions in regards of the cm, how effective and what stands behind it.
during the years between 1948-1970 he dedicated himself to psychoanalysis and psychiatry, in which he studied the treatment of children, various psychological approaches (gestalt for example) and hypnosis.
the 2 opening phrases clearly show that the distinguished doctor did not do his research properly.
i don’t mean to put down herbs, i really don’t, i just don’t like them very much.
bit by bit: slowly i will hopefully come back to action.
the article  we talk about here is 7 pages long, and-
so  this will be a two part post.
10 chinese medicine links you must bookmark posted on january 26, 2008 by yael5 comments the world wide web is packed with so many websites and blogs, that  sometimes you just don’t know how to reach them all, which is good and  which is, well, not so good.
deepest health: eric grey’s blog is one of the first stops i make every day as i start my internet-round.
in the book he shows, among other things, how cm can be used to treat the shen, and he brings us dr. shen’s theory- his own teacher and mentor.
when studying chinese medicine, one should remember to buy books, but one should always try to make a good decision on what to buy.
throughout the article, dr. barrett fails to mention that the chinese medicine is based on chinese philosophy, which just might be important to mention when you remember that the western medicine and science is basically based ongreek philosophy.
which isn’t a very good way to go, one reason is that it’s pretty expensive, and another reason is that many books that are recommended by the school are still in a very strange language which you just started to learn (chinese medicine).
we were thinking about what should be a good way to start  this new platform, and we have decided that it’s best to start with  introducing this blog’s intentions and missions: this blog is going to grow due to the love we have for chinese medicine,  and will have 100% chinese medicine oriented content.
deepest health: eric grey’s blog is one of the first stops i make  every day as i start my internet-round.
tags: books, chinese medicine, interviews, psychology filed under: interviews, practitioners notes, students notes defending chinese medicine- part 1 posted on december 24, 2007 by yael6 comments i’ll start by saying that this is going to be long.
also, there is no mention of chinese herbs, which is ancient, in-depth and has  very clear evidence to it’s effects.
we will list here the 10 links of chinese medicine we think you must bookmark and visit, as they offer good content and important info.
if he had, he would know that there is more to cm  than just tcm, and that chinese medicine doesn’t necessarily mean tcm.
tags: chinese medicine filed under: general notes, practitioners notes chinese medicine books- first year posted on november 20, 2007 by yaelno
well, we had a lot to say about it.
the article we talk about here is 7 pages long, and-
enter your email address:
others don’t buy books at all- which is  definifly not a good way to go!
dr. hammer was born in the usa on 1922.
tags: blog, chinese medicine filed under: general notes, practitioners notes newer entries » read all news...
there’s a place to be  creative.
some of them just buy everything they can get their hands on-
at first we went  through the article, thinking this is yet another person who thinks he knows  something about cm (but really doesn’t), but we saw that the person  writing the article has very strong opinions in regards of the cm, how  effective and what stands behind it.
if he had, he would know that there is more to cm than just tcm, and that chinese medicine doesn’t necessarily mean tcm.
tags: acupucnture points, acupuncture, chinese herbs, chinese medicine, herbs filed under: personal notes, students notes posted on january 9, 2008 by yael5 comments i was lucky enough to have a short correspondence with dr. leon hammer, a psychiatrist turned cm practitioner.
in the second paragraph we are witnessing complete lies and misguidance of the public.
tags: chinese medicine filed under: general notes, practitioners notes posted on november 20, 2007 by yaelno
those who don’t know dr. hammer  should really update their knowledge about the man who contributed an amazing  book to our shelves, a book called “dragon rises, red bird flies“.
there is no “injection of sterile water, procaine, morphine, vitamins or homeopathic solutions through the needles”.
comments many 1st year students don’t really know which are the best books to buy.
until 1989, dr. hammer studied many aspects of cm such as auriculotherapy, chinese herbs, 5 elements and more.
we will list here the 10 links of chinese  medicine we think you must bookmark and visit, as they offer good content and  important info.
also, there is no mention of chinese herbs, which is ancient, in-depth and has very clear evidence to it’s effects.
the 2 opening phrases clearly show that the distinguished doctor did not do  his research properly.
between you and me, if he would have done his homework properly, he  would know better than to mention homeopathy, because than he would know that  you don’t mix cm with homeopathy.
tags: books, chinese medicine, chinese philosophy filed under: practitioners notes, students notes chinese medicine notes blog-
when we come across a text which puts down, insults and disrespects cm, we make it a point to read it carefully, thinking that the text is based on ignorance and a negative pre-disposition regarding cm and alternative medicine in general.
some of them just buy everything they can get their hands on- which  isn’t a very good way to go, one reason is that it’s pretty  expensive, and another reason is that many books that are recommended by the  school are still in a very strange language which you just started to learn  (chinese medicine).
ok, ok, i will tell you the tale of my struggle with chinese herbs, which will explain why i don’t like ‘em, i just don’t.
but acupuncture- now there’s an art!
of course he  fails to mention that the needles are sterile and are not to be used more than  once.
tags: acupucnture points, acupuncture, chinese herbs, chinese medicine,  herbs, students filed under: general notes, practitioners notes, students notes acupuncture vs. herbs posted on january 18, 2008 by yael7 comments i must be honest with you: if this is the question, acupuncture vs. herbs-
yes, i can hear all those herb-people saying “but you can be very creative with herbs too!”, but it’s just not the same.
in 1974, dr. hammer met dr. shen, his biggest  influence in cm.
throughout the article, dr.  barrett fails to mention that the chinese medicine is based on chinese  philosophy, which just might be important to mention when you remember that the  western medicine and science is basically based ongreek philosophy.
tags: books, chinese medicine, interviews, psychology filed under: interviews, practitioners notes, students notes posted on december 24, 2007 by yael6 comments i’ll start by saying that this is going to be long.
there’s a place to be creative.
so this will be a two part post. ****************************************************** we surf the net in search of more information about chinese medicine on a regular basis.
in 1971 he started studying chinese medicine  with dr. van buren.
dr. stephen barrett did not fail us, and indeed, his article is based on more false things than true.
this blog aims to be a place to all those who are interested in chinese medicine- those of you who are interested in this field, those who are students of this wonderful philosophy, those who want to be students but just didn’t get round to it, those who are patients and want to know more about what their practitioner just did when he used that needle around the elbow… chinese medicine notes will provide important information on various topics, and hopefully it will become one of your regular stops on the world wide web, giving you interesting things to read while taking a break from work or drinking your first cup of coffee in the morning (or herbal tea, which ever you prefer).
as i see  their benefits and think that they are very powerful, studying them is almost  like a punishment, and let’s face
others don’t buy books at all- which is definifly not a good way to go!
yes, i can hear all those herb-people saying “but you can  be very creative with herbs too!”, but it’s just not the same.
in the second paragraph we are witnessing complete lies and misguidance of the  public.
did he fail to mention this because he didn’t want to show something that both medicines have in common?
ok, ok, i will tell you the tale of my struggle with chinese herbs, which will  explain why i don’t like ‘em, i just don’t.
until 1989, dr. hammer studied many aspects of cm such as  auriculotherapy, chinese herbs, 5 elements and more.
after all, if he mentioned the chinese philosophy, the “mess” that reflects from his article regarding qi and acupuncture points could have been avoided, the reader would know that there’s something behind it all.
we foundthis article on a website called quack watch.
we were thinking about what should be a good way to start this new platform, and we have decided that it’s best to start with introducing this blog’s intentions and missions: this blog is going to grow due to the love we have for chinese medicine, and will have 100% chinese medicine oriented content.
in 1971 he started studying chinese medicine with dr. van buren.
in 1974, dr. hammer met dr. shen, his biggest influence in cm.
when we come across a text which puts  down, insults and disrespects cm, we make it a point to read it carefully,  thinking that the text is based on ignorance and a negative pre-disposition  regarding cm and alternative medicine in general.
comments many 1st year students don’t really know which are the best books to  buy.
posted on january 26, 2008 by yael5 comments the world wide web is packed with so many websites and blogs, that sometimes you just don’t know how to reach them all, which is good and which is, well, not so good.
tags: acupucnture points, acupuncture, chinese herbs, chinese medicine,  herbs filed under: personal notes, students notes dr. leon hammer posted on january 9, 2008 by yael5 comments i was lucky enough to have a short correspondence with dr. leon hammer, a  psychiatrist turned cm practitioner.
let’s read it together shall we?
those who don’t know dr. hammer should really update their knowledge about the man who contributed an amazing book to our shelves, a book called “dragon rises, red bird flies“.
so we will try to give you a number of ideas for that good decision, giving you titles we think just might help you along the way and make your first year easier.
during the years between  1948-1970 he dedicated himself to psychoanalysis and psychiatry, in which he  studied the treatment of children, various psychological approaches (gestalt  for example) and hypnosis.