a lot of people have the idea that nutritious food will taste bad, bland, or uninspiring.
i've come to believe that most people are blissfully unaffected by reason and that beneath all the rhetoric, we as humans tend to follow the biases in which we've been indoctrinated as children.
without a firm foundation in the philosophies of each tradition, "integration" can be a recipe for confusion.
as a consequence of this  information, i have shifted toward a more conservative use of certain herbs to  avoid long-term toxicity effects.
the first is the theory of the seven tastes and their inherent actions: thermal  nature (hot/cold), humidity (dry/moist), and density (light/heavy).
#2-4 are merely ways of wording the "intuitions" that western herbalists may have, or the conscious analyses that tcm herbalists conclude, in order to define the mathematics necessary for a computer to understand.
#2-4 are merely ways of wording  the "intuitions" that western herbalists may have, or the conscious  analyses that tcm herbalists conclude, in order to define the mathematics  necessary for a computer to understand.
in the textbooks i've written, i've taken pains to explain why the  fundamental basis for tcm is not a causal one.
i  have six friends who have survived cancer, all more than 20 years, and by  exclusively using "alternative" services of several mexican cancer  clinics.
they can be used just as  readily to describe the effects of radiation damage, purified hormones, and  many chemical pollutants, even though these did not exist before the 20th  century.
see the following article for a discussion of how this works, and how the western materia medica needs to be refined in order to fulfil this criteria: first, we should ask what we wish to achieve by a synthesis of the chinese herbal tradition with western systems of medicine and herbology.
i've seen all these  conditions in my own practice.
it will never replace the traditional information, as any medical  practice is always based on the symptoms and observable clinical signs at the  first level of analysis, and i feel that tcm does this first level best.
the identity of the microbe is a minor consideration.
the u.s.  naturopathic profession and its allies are invaluable sources of this type of  information.
qi is aphenomenon, not a material substance that  participates in a chain of causality in the western scientific sense.
sorry, but while intuition is a fine thing, one cannot program a computer solely with intuition and, moreover, one cannot teach effectively.
there are numerous herbs with broad-spectrum antibacterial and antiviral activity; much more important to consider are matching the herbal formula to the stage of the fever, degree of thirst and dehydration, presence or absence of delirium, rashes, hemorrhaging, excessive perspiration, etc.
my own experiences with homeopathy are uncertain at best, it seems  unpredictable, but i have not studied it with enough depth to adequately  evaluate it.
the crucial question is how to integrate disparate health care traditions and yet preserve the intellectual and practical insights that each may offer.
pasteur himself stated before his  death that he regretted that medical doctors and researchers had become so  obsessed with microbial causes, as he realized that infectious illnesses  resulted from a complex interaction among various factors, including the  condition of the individual, the microbial flora, and environment.
if i've made an error in my synthesis, then perhaps people in future generations can study the archives of the cultural anthropologists, then reassess my conclusions and attempt to patch them up.
(i've never been much impressed by traditional  chinese music.)
it is  defined most accurately by the consequences of its absence or deficiency:  fatigue, pallor, weak and quiet voice, soft-weak pulse, pale-tender tongue, and  possibly organ prolapse, spontaneous perspiration, proneness to bruising and  bleeding disorders.
and i find these techniques to be indispensible in combination with tcm methods.
the converse of this approach, which is  to discard the chinese model of pattern analysis and to choose clinical  strategies based on medical disease criteria, is a method which is crude,  simplistic, and ignores thousands of years of traditional chinese medical  wisdom.
tcm, on the other hand, strikes a balance between detail and  conceptual elegance that facilitates constructing mathematical schema, and thus  might fulfil the role of the "pre-processor" stage that the mit  researchers predicted would be necessary for more accurate computer-aided  medical diagnosis.
i know quite a few people who were diagnosed  with aids and/or were hiv+ and have survived more than 20 years without doing  any toxic drugs, only diet and lifestyle changes plus herbal formulas  occasionally.
i have  never encountered anything in western herbology, ayurveda, or any other herbal  tradition, that even approaches this level of detail.
fortunately, the tcm materia medica includes some of the very same species that  are used as herbs in america and europe.
without careful thought, the internal logical consistency of these traditions may be sacrificed for the appearance of eclectic wisdom, and the resulting bastardization of terminology may only confuse.
for in-depth discussion of the concept of a multidimensioned  state-space for describing the tcm pattern-recognition paradigm.
read focus on the theory of the three doshas (vatta, pita, kapha), but don't go  much beyond this level.
on the other hand,  integration without violating the internal logical consistencies of each  tradition can often lead to great insight.
western herbalists tend to emphasize the botanical aspects of herbal  practice more than most tcm herbalists, many of whom do not even know the  botanical species name of the herbs they use.
the crucial  question is how to integrate disparate health care traditions and yet preserve  the intellectual and practical insights that each may offer.
interestingly, during the 1990's several mit artificial intelligence researchers stated that expert systems for medical diagnosis had repeatedly encountered a seemingly insurmountable bottleneck: while individual medical disease entities have specific criteria for their diagnosis, the actual clinical reality is far more ambiguous, for there are many combinations of symptoms and clinical signs that fail to yield a clear diagnosis.[a1] effectively, they were admitting that medical diagnosis, in spite of and even because of its complexity, fails to fulfil the equivalent of criteria #1 above the state-space defined by conventional medical diagnosis is not only filled with holes, but with vast regions that are either not defined or poorly defined.
tcm, on the other hand, strikes a balance between detail and conceptual elegance that facilitates constructing mathematical schema, and thus might fulfil the role of the "pre-processor" stage that the mit researchers predicted would be necessary for more accurate computer-aided medical diagnosis.
if two different systems reputedly deal with the same problem space (in our case, health and disease), i'll try to figure out which one does the best job and then simply not waste any more time on the inferior system, with the following exception: if there are ideas or insights in the inferior system that are not replicated in the other, i'll try to integrate these, and only these, into the better system.
as china continues the race to pollute and despoil its vast land area, it  becomes increasingly important to understand how to use locally grown herbs.
they do not work for the  average american student; only the very best survive this nonsense.
since  childhood i've been programming computers for entertainment, to carry out  professional projects, and for the last 10 years, as part of a long-term  project to develop databases and expert systems software for tcm clinical  assessment and problem solving.
however, the majority of this research indicates that of all the world's music,  european classical music (mozart, haydn, bach, beethoven) has by far the most  generally beneficial effects.
an increasing number of american and european herbalists are recognizing  the lack of a coherent assessment ("diagnosis") paradigm in typical  western herbal practice.
one individual went from having a 105 deg.
one can speculate as to all the  physiological phenomena that might result in this pattern, such as insufficient  thyroid hormone.
once, when i was presenting a short seminar on the principles  of chinese herbology at a conference of primarily western herbalists, one  participant condescendingly dismissed my presentation with the reply "but  those ideas aren't based in the european tradition."
i've seen all these conditions in my own practice.
after flailing about for a while, i began reading several  textbooks of chinese herbology recommended by an acupuncturist friend.
but thyroid hormone isnot qi, nor are nerve action  potentials, nor anything else, though these things might be correlated with qi  to varying degrees.
my own supplier take these matters seriously, as well as testing  imported lots for heavy metals and pesticide levels, but until recently this  has been the exception rather than the rule for chinese herb companies and  distributors.
see: see chapters 1-3 of traditional chinese herbal sciences, volume 1; in:  herbalthink-tcm software the state-space described in #1 allows for one to devise a measurement  criteria, just as with any orthogonal measurement system, that allows one to  quantitatively measure the similarity or disparity between two clinical  patterns.
this is western  medical thinking and simply does not work that well.
it's very difficult to define a unique and independent american cuisine; our foods have originated from a polyglot of cultures - american indian, italian, french, german, african, chinese, etc.
here's a short checklist of the results of my own synthesis, which has evolved from a combination of trial and error, much reading, and clinical results, the final and ultimate test: a number of herbalists have commented on the problems of studying ancient masters whose writings seem only barely relevant to current human conditions.
the converse of this approach, which is to discard the chinese model of pattern analysis and to choose clinical strategies based on medical disease criteria, is a method which is crude, simplistic, and ignores thousands of years of traditional chinese medical wisdom.
yet most of this  research fails to ask the question why a specific piece may send one individual  into ecstasy, whereas the same piece might trigger a headache in another.
i require my students to learn  the botanical names; most tcm schools do not.
f. fever with early-stage acute renal failure to an almost normal temperature with regained kidney function within 6 hours of drinking a large dose of herbal tea, and was discharged from hospital as they needed the beds for other similar cases.
the optimal synthesis of traditional chinese herbology with western medicine and science entails using traditional chinese methods for describing whole-body patterns of symptoms and clinical signs and to incorporate knowledge from modern nutrition, biochemistry, pharmacology, microbiology, and pathology as means offine-tuning the choice of herbs, formulas, dietary recommendations, and other therapies.
the teaching methodologies of tcm are in the dark ages of rote  memorization.
it is evident from their writings that some of these herbalists have borrowed significantly from chinese herbology and ayurveda.
while i am aware that chinese texts talk about "causes", these are usually not causes in the western scientific sense of materialistic causation.
like a lot of herbalists, i began exploring  herbs because of personal health needs.
(although computers are free from ethnic biases, they require their instructions to be quite explicit so as not to become confused, much like beginning students of herbology.)
it is a tedious distraction to search out momordica fruits to  tonify one's lung yin, when the deficiency of lung yin might be caused by the  lack of a humidifier in a forced-air heating system or an improperly vented  exhaust outlet.
on the merits of ayurveda vs. tcm summary copyright ©2006 by rmh-publications trust; all rights reserved.
it often leads to a mishmash of confused ideas, slippery definitions, and  schizophrenia.
let the cultural anthropologists write esoteric papers on the detritus; these folks do serve a valuable function as archivists of ancient knowledge.
the primary flaw of  western medicine is that is has become so obsessed with materialistic chains of  causality that it often ignores the systemic whole-body patterns that are  screaming for attention.
i have never encountered anything in western herbology, ayurveda, or any other herbal tradition, that even approaches this level of detail.
the ancient chinese devised successful herbal formulas for  epidemic illnesses long before the science of microbiology came onto the scene.
in the textbooks i've written, i've taken pains to explain why the fundamental basis for tcm is not a causal one.
my own experiences with homeopathy are uncertain at best, it seems unpredictable, but i have not studied it with enough depth to adequately evaluate it.
the debate on the relative merits of various systems and philosophies of health care have echoed throughout millenia of human history, with the forces of western medicine/herbology, tcm, ayurveda, and homeopathy all jockeying for power, influence, and the claim of superior truth.
rather than "causes", i prefer to think in  terms of "contributing factors".
while this may be useful, i do not consider it  "cutting edge" knowledge, especially in light of recent studies  documenting the ineffectiveness of most chemotherapy and radiation treatments  for cancer.
the two systems operate on distinctly different  planes of thought and reasoning, and, consequently, they are mutually  complementary.
but my computer-oriented biases have  always been in the background.
like a lot of herbalists, i began exploring herbs because of personal health needs.
their conclusion was that a pre-processor stage would be required that parsed the data of clinical symptoms and signs into a more fundamental state-space of variables, which could in turn provide the framework for more accurate conventional medical diagnosis.
the first is the theory of the seven tastes and their inherent actions: thermal nature (hot/cold), humidity (dry/moist), and density (light/heavy).
consequently, some herbalists have developed their own idiosyncratic systems.
a lot of interest has arisen regarding epidemic illnesses such as hemorrhagic fevers.
as traditional chinese herbology is a descriptive, phenomenological system,  its insights remain valid regardless of advances in scientific materialism  (materialistic causality).
for example, the traditional chinese term "deficiency of yin" has no simple corresponding equivalent in western medicine.
the reason that #2-4 above are important is that without these being  implicit in one's paradigm, one cannot say to a student, "your herbal  formula is way off base for this client, it will result in either death or  severe side effects."
once, when i was presenting a short seminar on the principles of chinese herbology at a conference of primarily western herbalists, one participant condescendingly dismissed my presentation with the reply "but those ideas aren't based in the european tradition."
one might speculate, but these speculations must then be based on the symptoms and observable signs and their known  correlations with hormone physiology.
tcm says almost nothing  about this subject - i've asked many of my colleagues, so it's either well  hidden or nonexistent knowledge.
these 140 patterns, in turn, define a  multidimensioned state-space of ill health that is relatively complete and without significant holes, or localized regions in which the space is  undefined.
one cannot simply mix together, simmer, and stir a bit, hoping that the resulting concoction will be either pleasing or useful.
perhaps some mathematician-homeopath might attempt it, but it would seem to me a gargantuan task.
this could give western herbalists a  head start in figuring out how to use these herbs in a more precisely targeted  manner.
as traditional chinese herbology has become popularized worldwide, the dominant culture of scientific materialism applies political and economic coercion to "biomedicalize" and "scientize" it, to make it more amenable to profit-making schemes.
the rules of tcm assessment are defined with a sufficient level of detail that the following computational criteria can be fulfilled: the reason that #2-4 above are important is that without these being implicit in one's paradigm, one cannot say to a student, "your herbal formula is way off base for this client, it will result in either death or severe side effects."
in  all these cases the herbal formulas were only slightly modified from the  standard tcm formulas for ying- and xue-stage virulent heat (wen bing) patterns.
i've used this information in simple diet and cooking  classes for clients.
i've come to believe that  most people are blissfully unaffected by reason and that beneath all the  rhetoric, we as humans tend to follow the biases in which we've been  indoctrinated as children.
most medical diagnostic terms have no one-to-one correspondences in the  traditional chinese theory of health and illness, and within the traditional  chinese paradigm, it is the medical diagnostic terms that suffer from excessive  vagueness.
if i've made an error in my synthesis, then perhaps people in future  generations can study the archives of the cultural anthropologists, then  reassess my conclusions and attempt to patch them up.
the ideas for this article arose from an extended debate among herbalists about how to effectively integrate herbal traditions from different cultures when the underlying philosophies and principles of these traditions may differ radically.
or "your herbal formula is close, but it might be even better with a bit of x thrown in."
there are several aspects of ayurveda that i have included in my course material, which i believe have been somewhat obscured and watered down in tcm.
i become utterly discombobulated when someone responds to a reasoned argument, not with any logical rebuttal, but rather, with a declaration that the european tradition is presumed superior and requires no debate.
however, while  detailed symptom-sign pattern matching is the fundamental similarity between  tcm and homeopathy, when one attempts to construct a workable state-space from  the thousands of remedy-based patterns, it becomes quite difficult.
in a way, it is much like statistics,  describing the correlations among symptoms and clusters of symptoms and how  these clusters or patterns are likely to evolve and transform into other  patterns.
an accurate and concise description requires at least several paragraphs of explanation.
this is western medical thinking and simply does not work that well.
tcm should acknowledge its debt to ayurveda, as historically, ayurveda was transmitted along with buddhism via tibet and then into china.
(although computers are free from  ethnic biases, they require their instructions to be quite explicit so as not  to become confused, much like beginning students of herbology.)
it is defined most accurately by the consequences of its absence or deficiency: fatigue, pallor, weak and quiet voice, soft-weak pulse, pale-tender tongue, and possibly organ prolapse, spontaneous perspiration, proneness to bruising and bleeding disorders.
numerous educational psychology studies over decades haveproven that certain methods work better - experiential learning to motivate and  anchor knowledge in long-term memory, using case studies to motivate students  to learn and memorize the most important information.
a number of herbalists have commented on the problems of studying ancient  masters whose writings seem only barely relevant to current human conditions.
summary the optimal synthesis of traditional chinese herbology with western  medicine and science entails using traditional chinese methods for describing  whole-body patterns of symptoms and clinical signs and to incorporate knowledge  from modern nutrition, biochemistry, pharmacology, microbiology, and pathology  as means offine-tuning the choice of herbs, formulas, dietary  recommendations, and other therapies.
criterion #2 then allows us to create a corresponding state-space for  herbal properties (a simplified example: heating/cooling, drying/moistening,  etc.) that complements the state-space of patterns.
i only have so much time.
personally, i favor a "take no prisoners" approach to  intellectual synthesis.
i've been involved as a consultant in several cases of hemorrhagic fevers for which the doctors in the hospital had essentially pronounced that they had tried everything in their arsenal, the patient would soon be dead, and they gave their blessing to try herbs as a last resort.
when i evaluate the merits of various systems of herbology, i'm somewhat less interested in the religious, philosophical, or esthetic merits than the following criteria: i'm not interested in promoting a pseudo-religious cult under the guise of science, or in maintaining the philosophical purity of any ethnic tradition merely for its own sake there are plenty of others eager to fight over these issues.
sorry, but while intuition is a fine thing,  one cannot program a computer solely with intuition and, moreover, one cannot  teach effectively.
one cannot simply mix together, simmer, and stir a bit, hoping that  the resulting concoction will be either pleasing or useful.
[about us] [contact] — updated 2006-03-15 herbalist review, issue 2006 #1: the problem of integrating chinese  herbology with allopathic and western medical traditions — a personal  perspective by roger w. wicke, ph.d. it is not always clear how to integrate knowledge from disparate health  traditions.
heavy metal toxicity is a widespread problem.
however, what i like about the tcm assessment system is  that it provides an accurate, computer-reproducible, rule-based system for  describing and analyzing patterns of symptoms — these basic patterns of  the body's reponses are almost universal in scope.
likewise, how does one apply recently discovered antimicrobial properties of various herbs that have been described in traditional texts long before bacteria, viruses, and other microbes were discovered?
it is evident from their writings that some of these  herbalists have borrowed significantly from chinese herbology and ayurveda.
i find the traditional chinese literature on diet to be largely  irrelevant.
for example, all  one's knowledge of hormone physiology becomes a theoretical castle in the sky  if one cannot measure the levels.
i do know from studying the homeopathic materia medica, that many remedies have listed so many symptoms that it seems difficult to make sense of the priorities; i would assume that this comes with experience.
i'm not interested in promoting a pseudo-religious cult under the guise of  science, or in maintaining the philosophical purity of any ethnic tradition  merely for its own sake — there are plenty of others eager to fight over  these issues.
as such, i'm firmly entrenched in the traditional american  pattern of borrowing ideas from other cultures when they are useful.
a lot of people have the idea that nutritious food will  taste bad, bland, or uninspiring.
integration merely for the sake of integration, or as an intellectual exercise, or to appease the delicate cultural sensibilities of one's audience is usually a bad idea.
the traditional chinese literature (the shang han lun and wen bing) nicely complements modern microbiological understanding of infectious illness, but to debate over causes can become a war of words.
see the following article for  a discussion of how this works, and how the western materia medica needs to be  refined in order to fulfil this criteria: tcm paradigm and western herbs: oregon grape root as example guidelines for integrating chinese herbology with other health care systems
for example "aids", "fibromyalgia",  "autoimmune disorders", "hepatitis" are not precisely  targeted diagnostic terms; one cannot design an herbal formula "for  aids", "for autoimmune disorders", or for most other medically  defined conditions without knowing the specific symptom-sign pattern or  patterns involved in a specific case.
here again, it is crucial to match the herbal formula to  the pattern of presenting symptoms.
i once took a short  course in ayurvedic cooking; i've never tasted such delicious food that also  felt healthy afterward.
it is crucial to separate the idea of western medical disease diagnosis  from tcm pattern assessment, and avoid debating the choices of herbal formulas  for western diseasesunless the tcm patterns are also considered.
that various ingested substances, as they become digested and metabolized, will affect tissues they contact differently.
without careful  thought, the internal logical consistency of these traditions may be sacrificed  for the appearance of eclectic wisdom, and the resulting bastardization of  terminology may only confuse.
traditional chinese herbology, ayurveda, western  herbology, and allopathic medicine are each characterized by sets of  terminology and rules of logical deduction for which one-to-one correspondences  are not easily described.
why must we as herbalists get into a snit over  the ethnic origins of our herbal practices?
i advocate that new students new to tcm, especially medical doctors and nurses,temporarily set aside their medical way of thinking while learning tcm theory and assessment.
tcm should acknowledge its debt to ayurveda, as  historically, ayurveda was transmitted along with buddhism via tibet and then  into china.
on the other hand, integration without violating the internal logical consistencies of each tradition can often lead to great insight.
it  is also evident that a growing portion of western herbalists have become  receptive to chinese herbology as they recognize it has the potential to fill  in a major gap in their own techniques — mainly in clinical assessment.
that is not necessarily a disadvantage, and as i discuss in my textbooks, it is often a distraction to interpose a theorized physical basis for causation when the real goal in clinical practice is to match an effective herbal formula with the totality of the symptom-sign pattern so as to relieve it, whatever the "cause" or "causes".
perhaps  some mathematician-homeopath might attempt it, but it would seem to me a  gargantuan task.
traditional chinese herbology, ayurveda, western herbology, and allopathic medicine are each characterized by sets of terminology and rules of logical deduction for which one-to-one correspondences are not easily described.
there is a  vast amount of research proving beyond any doubt that music has powerful and  often rapid effects on measurable physiological parameters, both positive and  negative: eeg patterns, hormone levels, heart rate, even the growth pattern of  neurons and dendritic branching patterns in the brain.
all the ayurvedic courses and texts i have
that is also perhaps why it has  endured so long.
ayurvedic cooking proves this idea wrong, and  i use the properties of the basic tastes to explain how to put together a meal  that is balanced for a given individual and that also tastes good.
i was  instantly impressed by the level of detail in the assessment system.
ayurvedic cooking proves this idea wrong, and i use the properties of the basic tastes to explain how to put together a meal that is balanced for a given individual and that also tastes good.
a good majority of the terms  used in tcm are functional rather than materialistic in nature.
updated 2006-03-15 by roger w. wicke, ph.d. it is not always clear how to integrate knowledge from disparate health traditions.
the basic patterns in tcm are quite  adequate for describing these problems in sufficient detail to point one toward  appropriate herbal formulas and dietary regimes, with a few exceptions, such as  autoimmune conditions associated with heavy metal toxicity.
why reinvent the wheel if one already exists, with lubricated bearings and hub cabs even?
all the ayurvedic courses and texts i have read focus on the theory of the three doshas (vatta, pita, kapha), but don't go much beyond this level.
the primary flaw of western medicine is that is has become so obsessed with materialistic chains of causality that it often ignores the systemic whole-body patterns that are screaming for attention.
consequently, some herbalists have developed their own  idiosyncratic systems.
the traditional chinese literature (the shang han lun and wen bing) nicely  complements modern microbiological understanding of infectious illness, but to  debate over causes can become a war of words.
tcm is a concise and detailed phenomenological system of correspondences, not an exposition of "causes" in the western sense of scientific materialism; its primary objective is to match up descriptions of whole-body patterns of easily recognized symptoms and clinical signs (tongue, pulse, body appearance) with herbs and herbal formulas historically observed to be effective for specific whole-body patterns.
the second is in the realm of diet.
medical disease diagnosis vs. tcm assessment
how can this paradigm be taught to students so that they will be able to  use it effectively and flexibly (in contrast to dogmatically) as a tool in  their practices?
although limited in scope, what  it set out to do, it does well.
or "your herbal formula is close, but it might  be even better with a bit of x thrown in."
for example, microwave ovens, synthetic sweeteners, genetically modified foods,  and margarine did not exist until the late 20th century; we cannot expect much  wisdom from the ancient masters in addressing problems in modern nutrition and  environmental toxicity.
here's a short checklist of the results of my own synthesis, which has  evolved from a combination of trial and error, much reading, and clinical  results, the final and ultimate test: of all the various herbal traditions i've studied, i've spent by far the  most time on tcm because it has the best assessment techniques to offer the  low-tech herbalist.
for more discussion of how traditional chinese theory of feverish illnesses  (wen bing) is applied practically, see: sars and tcm theories of epidemic illness
the phytochemical and pharmacological data coming out within the past 20  years or so on herbs, including chinese herbs, is useful supplementary  information.
tcm assessment methods have some potentially interesting applications,  such as helping to understand the health effects of music and sound.
as traditional chinese herbology has become popularized worldwide, the  dominant culture of scientific materialism applies political and economic  coercion to "biomedicalize" and "scientize" it, to make it  more amenable to profit-making schemes.
qi is not a physical substance; even the word "energy" is a crude and misleading translation.
in this aspect, many  western herbal teachers are already doing a lot of things right: taste-testing  the herbs in one's materia medica, keeping journals of one's subjective  experiences, discussing case studies as a way to illustrate techniques and  improve clinical skills.
but my computer-oriented biases have always been in the background.
the ancient chinese devised successful herbal formulas for epidemic illnesses long before the science of microbiology came onto the scene.
first, we should ask what we wish to achieve by a synthesis of the chinese  herbal tradition with western systems of medicine and herbology.
in all these cases the herbal formulas were only slightly modified from the standard tcm formulas for ying- and xue-stage virulent heat (wen bing) patterns.
on the other hand, western physicians and  naturopaths have made major breakthroughs in this area within the past decade,
finally, to dispel the notion that only "chinese" herbs must be  used within the tcm assessment paradigm: one can use any herb or food as long  as one can describe it in terms of criterion #3.
because individual basic patterns are defined either in terms in  individual dimensions or n-dimensioned manifolds, they can be combined to form  an infinite variety of complex patterns that can match almost any clinical  manifestion.
a personal perspective: how i've chosen to integrate knowledge from  various sources and why the debate on the relative merits of various systems and philosophies of  health care have echoed throughout millenia of human history, with the forces  of western medicine/herbology, tcm, ayurveda, and homeopathy all jockeying for  power, influence, and the claim of superior truth.
yet this issue keeps coming up in  internet discussion groups and conferences so much as to lead me to wonder at  the hidden ethnic biases and insecurities that underly some of comments i've  heard and read.
[a1] szolovits, p., patil, r., and schwartz, w.; "artificial  intelligence in medical diagnosis" in:annals of internal medicine vol.108;  no.1, pp.80-87 (1988 january).
qi is not a physical substance; even the word "energy" is a  crude and misleading translation.
greco-roman medicine during the time of hippocrates and later had a similar four-element humoral theory of illness.
it's very  difficult to define a unique and independent american cuisine; our foods have  originated from a polyglot of cultures - american indian, italian, french,  german, african, chinese, etc.
the two systems operate on distinctly different planes of thought and reasoning, and, consequently, they are mutually complementary.
traditionally and in a clinical sense, qi is  said to promote harmonious transformation within the body, to provide for  retention of the body's organs and substances, and to warm the body.
however, while detailed symptom-sign pattern matching is the fundamental similarity between tcm and homeopathy, when one attempts to construct a workable state-space from the thousands of remedy-based patterns, it becomes quite difficult.
a good majority of the terms used in tcm are functional rather than materialistic in nature.
i find it amusing when some scientist speculates on what qi might look like under the microscope or how it could be detected.
phenomenological vs. causal reasoning tcm is a concise and detailed phenomenological system of correspondences,  not an exposition of "causes" in the western sense of scientific  materialism; its primary objective is to match up descriptions of whole-body  patterns of easily recognized symptoms and clinical signs (tongue, pulse, body  appearance) with herbs and herbal formulas historically observed to be  effective for specific whole-body patterns.
while i know of some western herbalists who, after years of study and experience, have developed their own effective methods, the lack of a coherent and systematic approach makes their insights difficult to communicate to the next generation.
on the merits of ayurveda vs. tcm although ayurveda has useful insights to offer, its system of assessment if  far less sophisticated; this becomes evident when comparing textbooks on tcm  assessment (with typically around 120-140 distinct patterns defined and  discussed) with those of ayurveda.
the brute force rote memorization techniques of  traditional chinese education i've simply discarded.
the cases of aids i've seen were all over the map as far as tcm patterns and formulas that were given.
i only have so  much time.
if one cannot do expensive tests, then one has to rely on  one's basics senses and the symptom perceptions of the client.
in my opinion there is no such thing as a single herbal formula appropriate "for aids".
they can be used just as readily to describe the effects of radiation damage, purified hormones, and many chemical pollutants, even though these did not exist before the 20th century.
i once took a short course in ayurvedic cooking; i've never tasted such delicious food that also felt healthy afterward.
rather than "causes", i prefer to think in terms of "contributing factors".
an accurate and concise description requires at least several  paragraphs of explanation.
such schemes have been described in a previous article: the desirability of integrating the best and most useful aspects of various herbal and health care traditions is admitted even by many mainstream medical practitioners.
i  become utterly discombobulated when someone responds to a reasoned argument,  not with any logical rebuttal, but rather, with a declaration that the european  tradition is presumed superior and requires no debate.
page contents… a personal perspective: how i've chosen to integrate knowledge from  various sources and why guidelines for integrating chinese herbology with other health care systems phenomenological vs. causal reasoning medical disease diagnosis vs. tcm assessment
there are several aspects of ayurveda that i have included in my course  material, which i believe have been somewhat obscured and watered down in tcm.
also the  idea that each taste may have differing predigestive, digestive, and  postdigestive effects is consistent with the observation that various ingested  substances, as they become digested and metabolized, will affect tissues they  contact differently.
it is my own conclusion that tcm theory already provides the basis for the "preprocessor" stage that the mit researchers claim is necessary to improve the performance of expert systems in medical diagnostics.
also the idea that each taste may have differing predigestive, digestive, and postdigestive effects is consistent with the observation
greco-roman medicine during the time of hippocrates and later had a  similar four-element humoral theory of illness.
it is a  practical term that summarizes functions that can be recognized by manifested  symptoms, without intervention of technological measurement devices.
the chinese were fortunate that their herbalist-scholars recorded the rules of their paradigm in detail, so that each future generation would not have to tediously rediscover these basic insights, and, instead, could continually refine them.
i find it amusing when some scientist  speculates on what qi might look like under the microscope or how it could be  detected.
integration  merely for the sake of integration, or as an intellectual exercise, or to  appease the delicate cultural sensibilities of one's audience is usually a bad  idea.
so although hype and disinformation on reputed cancer remedies may  abound, some of the information coming from american and european clinics on  how to deal with cancer is far ahead of anything i've read from china.
i assure them than after they have learned  the patterns thoroughly, they will find that their medical knowledge regains  its usefulness as a way tofine-tune the basic tcm assessment in given  case, but to prematurely attempt integrating would only lead to confusion.
when i evaluate the merits of various systems of  herbology, i'm somewhat less interested in the religious, philosophical, or  esthetic merits than the following criteria: is it clinically effective?
f. fever with  early-stage acute renal failure to an almost normal temperature with regained  kidney function within 6 hours of drinking a large dose of herbal tea, and was  discharged from hospital as they needed the beds for other similar cases.
as such, i'm firmly entrenched in the traditional american pattern of borrowing ideas from other cultures when they are useful.
(after all, how often do textbooks of science become outdated because their explanations of scientific causes becomes disproven or replaced by causal explanations of greater complexity?)
finally, to dispel the notion that only "chinese" herbs must be used within the tcm assessment paradigm: one can use any herb or food as long as one can describe it in terms of criterion #3.
a few years ago, the director of an internationally known cancer  research clinic enrolled in my course.
an increasing number of american and european herbalists are recognizing the lack of a coherent assessment ("diagnosis") paradigm in typical western herbal practice.
i've been involved as a consultant in several  cases of hemorrhagic fevers for which the doctors in the hospital had  essentially pronounced that they had tried everything in their arsenal, the  patient would soon be dead, and they gave their blessing to try herbs as a last  resort.
that is not necessarily a disadvantage, and as i discuss in my  textbooks, it is often a distraction to interpose a theorized physical basis  for causation when the real goal in clinical practice is to match an effective  herbal formula with the totality of the symptom-sign pattern so as to relieve  it, whatever the "cause" or "causes".
in a way, it is much like statistics, describing the correlations among symptoms and clusters of symptoms and how these clusters or patterns are likely to evolve and transform into other patterns.
for example, "qi" causes a lot of confusion.
since childhood i've been programming computers for entertainment, to carry out professional projects, and for the last 10 years, as part of a long-term project to develop databases and expert systems software for tcm clinical assessment and problem solving.
i took the opportunity to question him  on his opinion of the current state of the art in chemotherapy and radiation  — his reply was that the vast majority of it was useless garbage (the possible exceptions being certain drugs for childhood leukemia), not only  ineffective, but likely speeding up patients' demise.
i know quite a few people who were diagnosed with aids and/or were hiv+ and have survived more than 20 years without doing any toxic drugs, only diet and lifestyle changes plus herbal formulas occasionally.
traditional chinese medicine has nothing to say about aspartame,  microwave ovens, margarine, cell phones, tvs, etc. - these did not exist until  recent history.
for example, microwave ovens, synthetic sweeteners, genetically modified foods, and margarine did not exist until the late 20th century; we cannot expect much wisdom from the ancient masters in addressing problems in modern nutrition and environmental toxicity.
their conclusion was that a pre-processor stage would be required that  parsed the data of clinical symptoms and signs into a more fundamental  state-space of variables, which could in turn provide the framework for more  accurate conventional medical diagnosis.
while tcm doctors give lip service to the idea of good diet, ayurvedic doctors place much greater emphasis on diet, and this aspect is certainly important in dealing with american clients whose diets are typically disastrous.
without a firm foundation in the philosophies of each tradition,  "integration" can be a recipe for confusion.
though hemorrhagic fevers are generally rare, i suspect we will be seeing more of these, and we may not have to wait long if the h5n1 virus in se asia becomes a worldwide pandemic.
so in the realm of music therapy, i've used ideas from tcm  assessment theory to evaluate and predict each individual's unique response to  a piece of music, but i've chosen to focus on the classical european repertoire.
however, western scientific knowledge of herbal pharmacology and toxicology has  definitely added a useful layer of understanding.
while i know of some western herbalists who, after years of  study and experience, have developed their own effective methods, the lack of a  coherent and systematic approach makes their insights difficult to communicate  to the next generation.
to program a computer, which is inherently free of ethnic biases and responds only to the rigid logic of 1's and 0's, to do something like medical diagnosis or tcm clinical assessment (i avoid calling it "diagnosis" for legal reasons), one requires a reasonably well defined set of rules that defines the assessment paradigm.
for example, the traditional chinese term  "deficiency of yin" has no simple corresponding equivalent in western  medicine.
the whole ecology and permaculture movement in the u.s. is a more  compatible fit with the sensibilities of most american natural health patrons,  and it makes sense to integrate this into a comprehensive herbal tradition  rather than to be dependent exclusively on imported herbs.
i was instantly impressed by the level of detail in the assessment system.
it is a waste of time to focus on eating exotic chinese  vegetables to remedy a stomach yin deficiency when such a condition might be  seriously aggravated or caused by sensitivites to various american foods, like  soy, milk, alcohol, artificial additives, genetically modified foods, etc.
there are numerous herbs with broad-spectrum antibacterial and antiviral  activity; much more important to consider are matching the herbal formula to  the stage of the fever, degree of thirst and dehydration, presence or absence  of delirium, rashes, hemorrhaging, excessive perspiration, etc.
most tcm  reports on this subject are rehashes of the standard approach of supplementing  radiation and chemotherapy with tonic herbs and herbs to counteract the medical  treatment side effects.
when i first became interested in herbs 30 years ago, i had read several  books by western herbalists, starting with john christopher, and taking a  number of classes.
the identity of the microbe is a minor  consideration.
to read more on the philosophical differences between western scientific medicine and traditional chinese herbology, see: reference {{ links }} will appear in a new window.
(also in webpage at:—{{   http://medg.lcs.mit.edu/ftp/psz/schwartzannals.html  }} )
the rules of tcm assessment are  defined with a sufficient level of detail that the following computational  criteria can be fulfilled: 500 or so of the most common clinical symptoms and signs (e.g., fatigue,  insomnia, abdominal distention, various fevers, various skin rashes, reddish  tongue, yellow tongue coating)
some historians believe that  all these theories had their historical origins in india around the 500 b.c.  period or earlier.
what is qi physically?
he was personally much  more interested in the work of gerson and several mexican cancer doctors; he  was especially interested in accessing the detailed gerson archives and  reevaluating them with his newly acquired knowlege of tcm.
(after all, how often do textbooks of science become outdated  because their explanations of scientific causes becomes disproven or replaced  by causal explanations of greater complexity?)
(yet this is effectively what happens when one asks the question "what herbal formula is good for disease x?" and ignores all other considerations.)
comprise the elements of a schema that defines  about 140 distinct symptom-sign patterns.
for example,  "qi" causes a lot of confusion.
but thyroid hormone isnot qi, nor are nerve action potentials, nor anything else, though these things might be correlated with qi to varying degrees.
it is crucial to separate the idea of western medical disease diagnosis from tcm pattern assessment, and avoid debating the choices of herbal formulas for western diseasesunless the tcm patterns are also considered.
why reinvent the wheel if  one already exists, with lubricated bearings and hub cabs even?
it often leads to a mishmash of confused ideas, slippery definitions, and schizophrenia.
here again, it is crucial to match the herbal formula to the pattern of presenting symptoms.
if two different systems reputedly deal with the same  problem space (in our case, health and disease), i'll try to figure out which  one does the best job and then simply not waste any more time on the inferior  system, with the following exception: if there are ideas or insights in the  inferior system that are not replicated in the other, i'll try to integrate  these, and only these, into the better system.
some historians believe that all these theories had their historical origins in india around the 500 b.c. period or earlier.
the cases of aids i've seen were all over the map as far as tcm  patterns and formulas that were given.
one  colleague who has taught at a tcm college informs me that 80% of tcm students  feel unprepared to use herbs and eventually give up on them, primarily because  the obsession with rote memorization has not prepared them with the practical  skills necessary for analyzing and working through a clinical case.
while tcm  doctors give lip service to the idea of good diet, ayurvedic doctors place much  greater emphasis on diet, and this aspect is certainly important in dealing  with american clients whose diets are typically disastrous.
pasteur himself stated before his death that he regretted that medical doctors and researchers had become so obsessed with microbial causes, as he realized that infectious illnesses resulted from a complex interaction among various factors, including the condition of the individual, the microbial flora, and environment.
it is also evident that a growing portion of western herbalists have become receptive to chinese herbology as they recognize it has the potential to fill in a major gap in their own techniques mainly in clinical assessment.
the chinese were fortunate that their  herbalist-scholars recorded the rules of their paradigm in detail, so that each  future generation would not have to tediously rediscover these basic insights,  and, instead, could continually refine them.
personally, i favor a "take no prisoners" approach to intellectual synthesis.
although limited in scope, what it set out to do, it does well.
it is a practical term that summarizes functions that can be recognized by manifested symptoms, without intervention of technological measurement devices.
qi is aphenomenon, not a material substance that participates in a chain of causality in the western scientific sense.
the naturopathic and alternative health community has made many  interesting and very likely effective improvements for dealing with cancer.
thus for the state-space  pattern "deficiency of lung yin", which is a dry-hot pattern  affecting the lungs and throat, one would then go to the corresponding  state-space for herbal properties and search for an herb or combination of  herbs whose net effect would be to moisten-cool.
adulteration and species  substitutions are a significant problem among many chinese herb wholesalers and  distributors.
as traditional chinese herbology is a descriptive, phenomenological system, its insights remain valid regardless of advances in scientific materialism (materialistic causality).
i advocate that new students new to tcm, especially medical doctors and  nurses,temporarily set aside their medical way of thinking while  learning tcm theory and assessment.
(yet this is effectively what happens when one asks the question  "what herbal formula is good for disease x?" and ignores all other  considerations.)
for more discussion of how traditional chinese theory of feverish illnesses (wen bing) is applied practically, see: although ayurveda has useful insights to offer, its system of assessment if far less sophisticated; this becomes evident when comparing textbooks on tcm assessment (with typically around 120-140 distinct patterns defined and discussed) with those of ayurveda.
a lot of interest has arisen regarding epidemic illnesses such as  hemorrhagic fevers.
so to be fair, let me explain the origins of some of my own biases.
the basic patterns in tcm are quite adequate for describing these problems in sufficient detail to point one toward appropriate herbal formulas and dietary regimes, with a few exceptions, such as autoimmune conditions associated with heavy metal toxicity.
i assure them than after they have learned the patterns thoroughly, they will find that their medical knowledge regains its usefulness as a way tofine-tune the basic tcm assessment in given case, but to prematurely attempt integrating would only lead to confusion.
while i am aware that chinese texts talk about "causes", these  are usually not causes in the western scientific sense of materialistic  causation.
i've used this information in simple diet and cooking classes for clients.
likewise, how does one apply recently discovered  antimicrobial properties of various herbs that have been described in  traditional texts long before bacteria, viruses, and other microbes were  discovered?
why must we as herbalists get into a snit over the ethnic origins of our herbal practices?
such schemes have been described in a  previous article: orwellian schemes for maximizing health-care industry profits — how  these endanger the practice of herbal medicine the desirability of integrating the best and most useful aspects of various  herbal and health care traditions is admitted even by many mainstream medical  practitioners.
instead of  rote memorization, since 1998 we at rmhi have developed interactive computer  game software to help students learn basic theory and data: computer-aided instruction in tcm clinical analysis and decision-making  skills since i'd estimate that 70-80% of all illnesses in america are due to diet  and environmental factors, it is important to keep up with the latest  discoveries in nutritional sciences and environmental health issues.
to program a computer, which is inherently free of ethnic biases and  responds only to the rigid logic of 1's and 0's, to do something like medical  diagnosis or tcm clinical assessment (i avoid calling it "diagnosis"  for legal reasons), one requires a reasonably well defined set of rules that  defines the assessment paradigm.
(it helps that the patterns happen to be chosen to facilitate  orthogonality and linearity, two criteria for construction of a well-behaved  state-space.)
traditionally and in a clinical sense, qi is said to promote harmonious transformation within the body, to provide for retention of the body's organs and substances, and to warm the body.
let the cultural anthropologists write esoteric papers on the  detritus; these folks do serve a valuable function as archivists of ancient  knowledge.
to read more on the philosophical differences between western scientific  medicine and traditional chinese herbology, see: see chapters 1-5 of traditional chinese herbal sciences, volume 1; in:  herbalthink-tcm software references reference —{{ links }} will appear in a new window.
however, what i like about the tcm assessment system is that it provides an accurate, computer-reproducible, rule-based system for describing and analyzing patterns of symptoms these basic patterns of the body's reponses are almost universal in scope.
when i first became interested in herbs 30 years ago, i had read several books by western herbalists, starting with john christopher, and taking a number of classes.
for example "aids", "fibromyalgia", "autoimmune disorders", "hepatitis" are not precisely targeted diagnostic terms; one cannot design an herbal formula "for aids", "for autoimmune disorders", or for most other medically defined conditions without knowing the specific symptom-sign pattern or patterns involved in a specific case.
in my opinion there is no such thing as  a single herbal formula appropriate "for aids".
the ideas for this article arose from an extended debate among herbalists  about how to effectively integrate herbal traditions from different cultures  when the underlying philosophies and principles of these traditions may differ  radically.
it is my own conclusion that tcm theory already provides the basis for the "preprocessor" stage that  the mit researchers claim is necessary to improve the performance of expert  systems in medical diagnostics.
though hemorrhagic fevers are generally rare, i suspect we will be seeing  more of these, and we may not have to wait long if the h5n1 virus in se asia  becomes a worldwide pandemic.
most medical diagnostic terms have no one-to-one correspondences in the traditional chinese theory of health and illness, and within the traditional chinese paradigm, it is the medical diagnostic terms that suffer from excessive vagueness.
the limitations of western medicine are increasingly evident in dealing with chronic illnesses, antibiotic resistance, environmental toxicity, and disorders with significant mental-emotional-spiritual aspects.
if so, how much of the paradigm can be reconstructed with  mathematical/logical algorithms and programmed into software?
interestingly, during the 1990's several mit artificial intelligence  researchers stated that expert systems for medical diagnosis had repeatedly  encountered a seemingly insurmountable bottleneck: while individual medical  disease entities have specific criteria for their diagnosis, the actual  clinical reality is far more ambiguous, for there are many combinations of  symptoms and clinical signs that fail to yield a clear diagnosis.[a1]  effectively, they were admitting that medical diagnosis, in spite of and even  because of its complexity, fails to fulfil the equivalent of criteria #1 above  — the state-space defined by conventional medical diagnosis is not only  filled with holes, but with vast regions that are either not defined or poorly  defined.
yet this issue keeps coming up in internet discussion groups and conferences so much as to lead me to wonder at the hidden ethnic biases and insecurities that underly some of comments i've heard and read.
i do know from studying the homeopathic materia medica, that many  remedies have listed so many symptoms that it seems difficult to make sense of  the priorities; i would assume that this comes with experience.
the limitations of western medicine are increasingly evident in  dealing with chronic illnesses, antibiotic resistance, environmental toxicity,  and disorders with significant mental-emotional-spiritual aspects.
page contents… copyright ©2006 by rmh-publications trust; all rights reserved.
one can speculate as to all the physiological phenomena that might result in this pattern, such as insufficient thyroid hormone.
that is also perhaps why it has endured so long.
(so, for example, one can have a client with a combination of  liver qi stagnation plus liver yang rising and deficiency of spleen qi - a  pattern thatmight manifest as a case of simultaneous irritable moods,  hypertension, migraine headaches, plus intestinal "dysbiosis" - and  this complex pattern can be described mathematically in the defined state space  and quantified numerically.
after flailing about for a while, i began reading several textbooks of chinese herbology recommended by an acupuncturist friend.