the fda said that neotame is a white crystalline powder that dissolves in  water and can be used as a mealtime sweetener or added to recipes.
the mount prospect, ill., company plans to sell it primarily to the  soft-drink and food industries rather than directly to consumers as a tabletop  sweetener.
"we don't think  there's going to be a 1-to-1 replacement," he said.
but mr. rosa said he doesn't see neotame, a white crystalline powder, taking the place of aspartame in the sweetener market.
comparable arguments could be made for aspartic acid and methanol, which i have addressed in many publications.
a more appropriate question is; "why  isn't the epa regulating it as a pesticide?" and yet  another question; "why should we believe that  anything the fda approves is safe?" complaints against  aspartame[nutrasweet] constitute 75% of all additive related complaints  relayed to the fda department of consumer complaints.
for example, these species metabolize phenylalamine 4-5 times faster than humans.
in determining the safety of neotame, fda reviewed data from more than 113 animal and human studies.
the main market is soft  drinks, dairy products including yogurt and frozen dairy desserts, and chewing  gum.
new food additives, including new sweeteners, must be approved by fda as safe before they may be marketed in the united states.
please see our fair use notice
moreover, phenylalamine concentrates much more on the fetal side of the placenta, and readily crosses the blood-brain barrier to affect the fetus brain.
the agency and public should have the opportunity to review the additional data needed to address these issues, along with appropriate explanations prior to the issuance of a final rule.
from its evaluation of the neotame database, the fda was able to conclude that neotame is safe for human consumption.
thank you for your attention to this matter.
neotame was rolled out in australia and new zealand six months ago, and is  being used in soft drinks, yogurt and powdered gelatin mixes.
it has been approved for use in baked goods, nonalcoholic beverages, chewing gum, confections, frozen desserts, gelatins and puddings, jams, jellies, fruit, juices, toppings and syrups.
these reviews have not uncovered any material submitted by the petitioner that addresses the body-weight gain issue.
tel:  (212) 753-7500 fax : (212) 688-2870 stuart z. krinsly -- counsel brian j. buitigieg patrick m. calella+  stewart louie george miller, jr.+ kimberly m. seib glenn h. spiegel  writer’s direct dial june 11, 2002
v. "small amounts" it is erroneous to assume that "a dietary concentration of less than 10ppb [ parts per billion] of each minor degradant. . ."
they only can be summarized here.
neotame is a non-nutritive, high  intensity sweetener that is manufactured by the nutrasweet company of mount  prospect, illinois.
nutrasweet president and chief executive nick e. rosa said the company  plans "to push really hard, really fast" in marketing neotame after  the fda formally publishes its approval tuesday.
a more appropriate question is; "why isn't the epa regulating it as a pesticide?"
neotame is a non-nutritive, high intensity sweetener that is manufactured by the nutrasweet company of mount prospect, illinois.
because of neotame's strength -- it usually would take 8,000 teaspoons of  sugar to equal the sweetening power of one teaspoon of neotame in most products  -- mr. rosa said the "economic benefit is extraordinary" for makers  of soft drinks and other products that use sugar substitutes.
the food and drug administration approved a new sweetener that it says is as much as 13,000 times sweeter than sugar.
the new sweetener, he  said, can be blended with regular sweeteners such as corn syrup as well as with  other sugar substitutes.
nutrasweet's aspartame, widely sold under the equal brand, had come under fire a few years ago when it believed to be a possible cause of brain tumors.
the safety studies were designed to identify possible  toxic effects, such as cancer-causing, reproductive, and neurological effects.
ii animal testing it isa gross error to project the animal studies onto humans where the massive consumption of this chemical is envisioned.
alan rulis, director of the fda's office of food-additive safety, said the fda found that there were no "risks or concerns" associated with neotame, and that it met the safety standards applied to all food additives.
the body weight gain issue impacts the establishment of a no effect or no adverse effect level and must, therefore, be evaluated closely.
we prefer that it be a pc-formatted diskette with the manuscript in word 6.0/95 or 97 format.
the sweetener, neotame, is made by nutrasweet co., which also produces  aspartame, a widely used sugar substitute that is 200 times sweeter than sugar.
"we don't think there's going to be a 1-to-1 replacement," he said.
the fda has approved neotame for general use in foods, except for meat and  poultry.
nutrasweet must submit a special request for neotame to be considered for use  on meat and poultry because those two foods fall under the jurisdiction of the  department of agriculture.
the agency said it concluded from the studies that neotame was safe for human consumption.
as a board-certified internatl and endocrinologist, i have repeatedly found that aspartame products aggravate both diabetes control and its complications--and have written on this subject.
diabetics the assertion that aspartame/neotame does not affect glycemic control iswrong !
washington (ap 5jul02) -- neotame, a nonnutritive sweetener said to be 7,000 to 13,000 times sweeter than sugar, has been approved for marketing as an additive in candies, soft drinks and some other products, the food and drug administration announced friday.
it is a free-flowing, water soluble, white  crystalline powder that is heat stable and can be used as a tabletop sweetener  as well as in cooking applications.
neotame is manufactured by nutrasweet co. of mount prospect, ill. food and drug administration: www.fda.gov fda approves new non-nutritive sugar substitute neotame fda press release 5jul02 t02-29 media inquiries: 301-436-2335 july 5, 2002 consumer inquiries: 888-info-fda
i believe publication is scheduled for april 1999, although this timing is out of my control.
russell l.  blaylock, m.d., neurosurgeon, jackson, ms (1999) the fda  approved neotame in spite of serious health concerns voiced prior to  approval.
i am troubled by its shortcomings, based on my 15-year interest and researches on its analog, aspartame.
fax: 41 5/882-3379 221 main street l 5an francisco, ca 94105 george r. schwartz, md po box 1968 santa fe, nm 87504 dear dr. schwartz: given the quick acceptance of your report and its passing toward publication we would much appreciate a copy of the report on diskette.
from my work on pesticides, there are several molecules in each cell even in parts pertrillion.
mr. rosa said  three to five more products that use neotame are expected to be introduced  shortly.
mr. rosa said soft-drink companies will be able to get the same taste by  using less sweetener and more water, cutting down on production costs.
home |  air |  energy | farm | food | genetic engineering  |health | industry | nuclear | pesticides | plastic political |   sustainability | technology | water ipad 2 sells for $100.03 an ipad 2 just sold for $100.03 that's 79% off the retail price!
the food and drug administration approved a new sweetener  that it says is as much as 13,000 times sweeter than sugar.
nutrasweet's aspartame, widely sold under the equal brand, had come under  fire a few years ago when it believed to be a possible cause of brain tumors.
these assertions stem in part from the experience of over 1,200 (!)
dr. rulis said nutrasweet didn't request such consideration.
the safety studies were designed to identify possible toxic effects, such as cancer-causing, reproductive, and neurological effects.
in determining the safety of neotame, fda reviewed data from more than 113  animal and human studies.
contrary to the monsanto submission, i have considerable data that point toaspartame being toxic, mutagenic, carcinogenic, diabetogenic and teratogenic.
dr. rulis said nutrasweet didn't request such  consideration.
very truly yours, richard h. koby cc: dr. blondell anderson dr. alan rulis source: http://www.fda.gov/ohrms/dockets/dailys/02/jun02/061202/8004828e.pdf 6jul02 george r. schwartz, md p.o. box 1968 santa fe, nm 87504 505-982-9373 fax: 505-983-1733 hlthprs@trail.com [ mindfully.org note: dr schwartz is a well-known author of consumer guides on such subjects asmsg. ]
the fda said that neotame is a white crystalline powder that dissolves in water and can be used as a mealtime sweetener or added to recipes.
from its evaluation of the neotame database, the fda was able to conclude that  neotame is safe for human consumption.
please also do not forget to add the reference number (99-83) to the label of the diskette.
the food and drug administration today announced its approval of a new sweetener, neotame, for use as a general-purpose sweetener in a wide variety of food products, other than meat and poultry.
but mr. rosa said he doesn't see neotame, a white crystalline powder,  taking the place of aspartame in the sweetener market.
the issues of possible cancer induction need to be fully addressed since the neotame metabolism appears to be similar to that of aspartame.
but after reviewing a large number of studies, the fda concluded it was safe and that further study wasn't needed.
examples of uses for which neotame has been  approved include baked goods, non-alcoholic beverages (including soft drinks),  chewing gum, confections and frostings, frozen desserts, gelatins and puddings,  jams and jellies, processed fruits and fruit juices, toppings and syrups.
nutrasweet co. makes neotame, as well as nutrasweet.
the food and drug administration today announced its approval of a new  sweetener, neotame, for use as a general-purpose sweetener in a wide variety of  food products, other than meat and poultry.
it has been approved for use in baked goods, nonalcoholic beverages,  chewing gum, confections, frozen desserts, gelatins and puddings, jams,  jellies, fruit, juices, toppings and syrups.
but is it safe? monsanto's nutrasweet division gets fda approval for artificial sweetener  neotame stephanie m. horvath / wall street journal 8jul02 washington --
examples of uses for which neotame has been approved include baked goods, non-alcoholic beverages (including soft drinks), chewing gum, confections and frostings, frozen desserts, gelatins and puddings, jams and jellies, processed fruits and fruit juices, toppings and syrups.
the fda approved neotame in spite of serious health concerns voiced prior to approval.
this correspondence is prompted by my analysis of monsanto's "environmental assessment," dated december 17, 1998, which i have just read today.
my requests of corporate-sponsored researchers in this realm to justify their published "negative" conclusions have not been answered.
neotame was approved after the fda reviewed more than 113 animal and human  studies, some of which were designed to detect any cancer-causing, reproductive  or neurological effects.
thanks very much, western journal of medicine editorial office the western journal of medicine is published by bmj publishing inc 333 bush street, san francisco ca 94104, usa source: http://www.fda.gov/ohrms/dockets/dailys/040799/let0002.pdf 6jul02 h.j. roberts, m.d., facp, fccp 6708 pamela lane west palm beach, florida 33405 (561) 588-7628 diplomate, american board of fax (561) 547-8008 internal medicine (recertified)
our client has monitored developments on this petition through periodic reviews of the docket and freedom of information act requests.
russell l. blaylock, m.d., neurosurgeon, jackson, ms (1999)
the sweetener, neotame, is made by nutrasweet co., which also produces aspartame, a widely used sugar substitute that is 200 times sweeter than sugar.
let me repeat:it will be a public health tragedy if the aspartame problem is allowed to be repeated in the absence of these safeguards!
the fda has approved neotame for general use in foods, except for meat and poultry.
neotame is manufactured by nutrasweet co. of mount prospect, ill. food and drug administration: www.fda.gov fda approves new non-nutritive sugar substitute neotame
alan rulis, director of the fda's office of food-additive safety, said  the fda found that there were no "risks or concerns" associated with  neotame, and that it met the safety standards applied to all food additives.
our client believes these issues can be resolved only through the generation of additional data, as outlined in our earlier comments.
aspartame reactions in my own database.
washington (ap 5jul02) -- neotame, a nonnutritive sweetener said to be  7,000 to 13,000 times sweeter than sugar, has been approved for marketing as an  additive in candies, soft drinks and some other products, the food and drug  administration announced friday.
mindfully.org note: is it safe to use because the fda approved it?
the mount prospect, ill., company plans to sell it primarily to the soft-drink and food industries rather than directly to consumers as a tabletop sweetener.
san francisco, ca 94120-7690.
neotame was approved after the fda reviewed more than 113 animal and human studies, some of which were designed to detect any cancer-causing, reproductive or neurological effects.
march 29, 1999 dockets management branch (hfa-305) food and drug administration 5630 fishers lane, rm. 1061 rockville, md 20852 re:
but after reviewing a large number of studies, the fda concluded it was safe  and that further study wasn't needed.
neal t. dorman joel i. frank robert l. fromer sharon h. jacoby steven a. kirschenbaum gary kissin richard h. koby mark r. kook victor m. metsch stephen w. oconnell+ edward l. schiff edward i. tishelman eliot h. zuckerman + also admilted in new jersey hartman & craven llp 460 park avenue new york, n.y. 10022- 1987 tel: (212) 753-7500 fax : (212) 688-2870 stuart z. krinsly -- counsel brian j. buitigieg patrick m. calella+ stewart louie george miller, jr.+ kimberly m. seib glenn h. spiegel writers direct dial june 11, 2002 via federal express dockets management branch (hfa-305) food and drug administration 5630 fishers lane room 1061 rockville, md 20852 re: docket no. 99f-0187; fap 9a4643; neotame on august 16, 2000, on behalf of our client, the undersigned submitted comments to the above-referenced docket.
mr. rosa said soft-drink companies will be able to get the same taste by using less sweetener and more water, cutting down on production costs.
serious concerns raised by our client require definitive resolution to remove any remaining doubts about the safety of neotame prior to its introduction into the marketplace, and, equally important, to assure reasonable certainty that no harm will result from consumption of neotame.
because of neotame's strength -- it usually would take 8,000 teaspoons of sugar to equal the sweetening power of one teaspoon of neotame in most products -- mr. rosa said the "economic benefit is extraordinary" for makers of soft drinks and other products that use sugar substitutes.
and yet another question; "why should we believe that anything the fda approves is safe?" complaints against aspartame[nutrasweet] constitute 75% of all additive related complaints relayed to the fda department of consumer complaints.
yours truly, h.j. roberts, md 2 enclosures [for complete handwritten letter please see http://www.fda.gov/ohrms/dockets/dailys/041299/c00001.pdf 6jul02] more documents on the fda website: 92 page letter condemning neotame: http://www.fda.gov/ohrms/dockets/dailys/041499/c000002.pdf to send us your comments, questions, and suggestions click here the home page of this website is www.mindfully.org
mr. rosa said three to five more products that use neotame are expected to be introduced shortly.
mr. rosa said aspartame is "absolutely safe" and that allegations made against it have never been proved.
in particular, the comments questioned the adequacy of the data in resolving issues regarding the body weight gain of test animals consuming neotame, and their reported food consumption values.
fishers lane room 1061 rockville, md 20852 dear sirs, you have received my previous letters of march 3, 1998 and february 25, 1999, expressing myextreme professional opposition to the approval of neotame as an all-purpose sweetener (copies of both are enclosed) without further data.
as such there has to be a confidentiality until publication.
concluding comments i am a totally corporate-neutral physician who is concerned about the ongoing exposure of the population to aspartame and numerous other chemicals that were approved without adequate long-term pertinent studies by corporate-neutral investigative and politically-neutral regulators.
it is a free-flowing, water soluble, white crystalline powder that is heat stable and can be used as a tabletop sweetener as well as in cooking applications.
sincerely, george r. schwartz, md the western journal of medicine po box 7690.
fda  press release 5jul02 t02-29 media inquiries: 301-436-2335 july 5, 2002 consumer inquiries: 888-info-fda
neal t. dorman joel i. frank robert l. fromer sharon h. jacoby steven a.  kirschenbaum gary kissin richard h. koby mark r. kook victor m. metsch stephen  w. o’connell+ edward l. schiff edward i. tishelman eliot h. zuckerman +  also admilted in new jersey hartman & craven llp 460 park avenue new york, n.y. 10022- 1987
the main market is soft drinks, dairy products including yogurt and frozen dairy desserts, and chewing gum.
visit zeekler now and start saving today neotame artificial sweetener approved by fda
the new sweetener, he said, can be blended with regular sweeteners such as corn syrup as well as with other sugar substitutes.
neotame was rolled out in australia and new zealand six months ago, and is being used in soft drinks, yogurt and powdered gelatin mixes.
i. environmental impact i believe that there is a potentially significant impact that cannot be necessarily shown by the rat and dog studies, or in the extremely short (13 weeks) tests on healthy subjects.
those comments identified a number of concerns that pertain to the adequacy of the safety data submitted in support of fdas approval of neotame.
[handwritten letter transcribed by mindfully.org] april 7, 1999 dockets management branch (hfa-305) food and drug administration 5630
the agency said it concluded from the studies that  neotame was safe for human consumption.
please include this data in your analysis.
in view of thedeadline of april 10, 1999, i am writing my criticisms as a supplement to my prior letters.
mr. rosa said aspartame is  "absolutely safe" and that allegations made against it have never  been proved.
nutrasweet president and chief executive nick e. rosa said the company plans "to push really hard, really fast" in marketing neotame after the fda formally publishes its approval tuesday.
(currently, over half of the population consumes aspartame products.)
our client continues to believe that there is insufficient data concerning the toxic effect on growth to resolve this issue.
nutrasweet must submit a special request for neotame to be considered for use on meat and poultry because those two foods fall under the jurisdiction of the department of agriculture.
neotame identifying information i am enclosing a scientific paper accepted for publication by the western journal of medicine.
new food additives, including new sweeteners, must be approved by fda as  safe before they may be marketed in the united states.
depending on its food application, neotame is approximately 7,000 to 13,000 times sweeter than sugar.
mindfully.org note: is it safe to use because the  fda approved it?
depending on its food application, neotame is approximately 7,000 to 13,000  times sweeter than sugar.