sometime, i saw he was going to be  short of breath, but he would overcome it and get better later.
i've brought those tapes with me, but i haven't listened to them yet (laugh).
it sounds impossible -- she should not have  been able to make such great progress in such a short time.
he is getting better now.
but of course some doctors are not as good as others.
in taiwan we felt that too much homework and pressure was not good.
people usually try to see the good doctors,  therefore if there is an emergency, you may not be able to make an appointment  with them.
when  i first came here, i did not know about that.
unless i talk to those i am familiar with, otherwise i don't have much to say, especially in english conversations.
there  was no problem.
but that affected me -- i did not feel the atmosphere was right --
but chinese doctors know about the difference.
then he (she) decided to give us a lesson on the cultural difference.
f: the old lady next door gets £70.
it may be because i worried about the steroids, so i didn't like it.
she does not want people to think she is troublesome.
but it is better with the old lady, because she is quite old and also she is a bit forgetful.
i didn't understand the meaning.
housework seemed to be her main source of stress.
but in taiwan, always be quick, be quick, otherwise you can't compete with other people, you can't catch up, you have to be faster than other people.
i will then sit there and not  know what to do.
when we first came here, i felt the english people  were very reserved.
so i am not very  familiar with them.
{person} asked me to talk about something.
he was absent for a few days and did not attend the class for a few days.
this is quite good for the children.
he is not bad --  in his school, in the secondary school, some students are behaving very badly,  they are really bad.
we know her whole family.
it may be because i worried about the  steroids, so i didn't like it.
i: dangerous? f: yes, it is dangerous.
they both broke into a big laugh.
things are like that.
now he has quite a lot of friends.
what they said are not the same, i don't know.
f: but here we have to do the ironing.
but here i worried that he might fail the  exams.
i: did you come here with your husband, or did your husband come over  here on his own first?
then i decided to leave it.
f: i thought of trying.
a man came to repair -- to check... (point to the firework)
our attitude towards children -- the cultures are completely different -- their mums don't care.
they said give them freedom and they would learn it themselves later.
later, i became a buddhist.
i: have you talked about that with your friends or someone else, like people who are also parents.
to be like this is not ...
they are going home this year.
also, because the  welfare for the elderly people is good.
they said give them freedom and they would  learn it themselves later.
if it is not necessary, i won't say anything in the  classroom, i just listen.
people usually try to see the good doctors, therefore if there is an emergency, you may not be able to make an appointment with them.
it turned out that  that girl did not know how to do multiplication.
f: i have some, but i met them here after i came to this country.
although i know that it is not good, i find it difficult to change myself.
he does not see a doctor.
i: then do you think that we chinese people here are healthier?
you are -- (she started to laugh) relax, it is alright (laugh).
i think first you have a job, you have money -- that is very  important -- you have money -- then if you want to do something, like go to see  a doctor, you will have no problem, isn't that so?
i said it would not be clean by just using the spray, the stain  would still be there.
yes? f: when you have a headache, don't mention it, talk to your doctor about the problem, don't mention it to other people.
because you think that you are not working and you are supposed to look after the children and the home well.
during holidays, oh dear, all the parks are packed with people.
but do you prefer staying here?
i am not coughing now.
for example asthma -- like my son, he suffers from asthma when the  weather is not good ...
i: do you feel any cultural difference between you and them?
we chinese people say that for acute illness,  consult a western doctor; for chronic illness, see a chinese doctor (laugh).
but when i say that myself, i make the same  mistakes.
a bag of medicine costs £5, very  expensive, it is very expensive.
like this morning, i went to my daughter's sports day, her friend -- her classmate's mum -- her classmate's brother is the classmate of my son -- so we are quite familiar with each other.
but now it is not easy  to find a job.
firstly, the environment is  better.
your mental condition affects  your physical condition.
and on the ceremony that day -- she got an award  for maths.
i don't know  whether you have the same feeling?
f: which one did you use -- blue or brown?
if it is not necessary, i won't say anything in the classroom, i just listen.
like this morning, i went to my daughter's sports day, her friend -- her  classmate's mum -- her classmate's brother is the classmate of my son -- so we  are quite familiar with each other.
i don't know,  i don't know whether those people you are interviewing know english.
but  now i know about it, before that i was a bit stupid and didn't understand that,  and also no one taught me about that.
but they are going home soon, so  they don't care.
if you have some friends it means  that there will be some problems and gossip.
i also have -- {person} -- {person} is also  quite good.
so all the pressure is only temporary, it will  not be -- if i thought about staying here forever, then i'd have a lot to  consider.
if you come here to study only, you leave once you get your degree.
they paid £3 or £4, it is not expensive.
he did not know what was right and what was not wrong.
place children  in a high position and let them come down themselves -- i find it very ...
that is why the usage of the nhs -- the statistics are so low.
my course has finished already, so i went to that class.
i felt very tired on the journey.
and when i asked the teacher how to answer, he (she) said to say "not bad", then they would not carry on asking about the problems.
it is not important whether the clothes are good quality or not, but they should be clean.
also, it is very democratic here.
i asked them why i got it, they said it is probably because of stress.
i have children to look after, for example, to get a job during  the time when the children go to school.
because her husband is a job.
we have cultural differences with all the english people.
it is mainly because the weather, now you know what to  wear for different weather.
i was very surprised.
because our orientations are not the same,  attitudes are not the same.
but many  people don't go to church, many people don't go to church.
they said "off-colour".
there are some things which we chinese ...
your mental condition affects your physical condition.
some people are doing that.
not bad, he did not join them.
so i am not very familiar with them.
i did not go in the first year, and my son said "mum, you did not come".
i  don't know whether those chinese "tai tai" and chinese ladies, who  you have interviewed, have any religion.
how to say -- he was not really behaving badly.
sometimes, the doctors don't understand them.
i: but what medicine do you prefer? f: you mean chinese medicine?
because in taiwan they had a lot of homework, but here all the sudden -- he realised that he can have a different kind of life.
but later i  found that when i was not at home, my husband would read books in his room and  our children would watch television or do something else in the living room.
you just have to see if you are lucky.
i asked her whether she would like to come in and do some work.
i found it quite hard when i first came here, but it is  getting better now.
i: then what do you feel now? f: it is better now.
one of my daughter's friends came to our house, they are dirty -- their mums don't do the washing --.
f: my husband came here to study for a {qualification}, so we came along too.
after crying, i still need a friend to  talk with.
they were very  polite, they said things very formally, otherwise they think you are rude.
my husband asked  his name -- {name} -- a teacher at his department had the same first name and  surname as the man -- he asked whether they had any connection.
sometimes a trip out is quite good.
but our opposite neighbour, she is very nice, very nice.
but western doctors don't have this concept.
i've brought some books with me, but i have not read them either.
i asked her whether she would like to come in  and do some work.
i don't know how to say it in  english.
i  believe there are some good doctors and some bad doctors; it is not possible  that all of them are good.
i: they are quite good?
very  sloppy, so i gave up.
i: are they helpful?
but then this chinese man replied that he had been passing some black excrement (laugh).
like here there are some areas -- with a lot of single parents, they use bad language.
when the weather got cold, he thought he needed it.
our next door neighbour is also 88.
then he  (she) decided to give us a lesson on the cultural difference.
i came to her place, a bungalow in {location}, which is immaculate clean and tidy.
but he is good at having funny chats with other  people.
i have children to look after, for example, to get a job during the time when the children go to school.
four of them got pregnant.
this is quite good for the  children.
and then when we come back, i need to do a lot of laundry.
do you know what i mean?
as a mother, i think i should tell him what is right and what is not right.
but we are in a foreign country, we should behave better -- i feel this is very tiring.
every wednesday, they go to 'place', a kind of centre for the  elderly people -- they come and bring them out.
i don't know whether those chinese "tai tai" and chinese ladies, who you have interviewed, have any religion.
now i've learned how to deal with it -- i also may not invite them into my house.
i  said how come you expect a result by taking them just twice -- they are not  poison.
but when i say that myself, i make the same mistakes.
people here are slow, and you feel that there is no need to hurry.
i: came here together.
like last time, my  son's school has an award... i: ceremony?
if i used it every day, i found my throat was very sore and i didn't like it.
i: they gave you antibiotics, didn't they?
i  need some exercise, it is related to exercise.
i asked her to write down the time-table, but she could not.
he takes his own medicine without seeing a doctor...
f: cultural difference, yes, but it is not just between you and the doctors.
i don't know what i should  do.
i went  to watch films with my friends a few times, and my husband went to pick up the  children.
when we first came here, i felt the english people were very reserved.
f: our children -- my son in the secondary school -- they have a lot of clothes.
do  you know what i mean?
i think people would not understand our english.
f: here, i like the fresher air here.
f: his friends are mainly those from the university.
does that imply that people here are healthier?
also after hearing that for many times, you know how to talk with them in  a way that is polite.
her husband lived in taiwan.
at that time, i also asked her to do a calculation -- i've forgotten the question already -- she did not do it correctly.
each month the elderly people can get £70, is it £70 or  more...
just ignore it (the recorder) (laugh)...
one of my  daughter's friends came to our house, they are dirty -- their mums don't do the  washing --.
f: cultural difference, yes, but it is not just between you and the  doctors.
you might not think that way as i talk a  lot with you (laugh).
f: i might scold the children -- i don't know -- because my son did not  behave well in the first year.
they talked about pregnancy and i listened  to them.
i need some exercise, it is related to exercise.
if she did not call my name, i would just sit there and not say a lot.
but  my friend is a taiwanese.
but he is good at having funny chats with other people.
husband just concentrates on his study and the wife is responsible for everything related to the whole family.
but i worry a  lot about my children.
but it is  not the same here.
even though there were some taiwanese students, they came here to study, also they were..., that is, that is not the same.
she may have spent a lot of time on tidying the house.
later, i  became a buddhist.
of course, they have different expectation on  the students from the top group and the second group -- the teachers are not  the same and neither is the homework.
contact    |   copyright, disclaimer and privacy policy     |   accessibility
as a mother, i think i should tell him what is right and what  is not right.
but our chinese mums will tell our children what is right and then ask them to follow it and not to make mistakes.
i: but my previous flatmates from taiwan, they were able to get some part time jobs.
if i did not feel good, i cried and then i felt alright.
she brought me to see a chinese doctor there -- they have a chinese doctor there.
later, i realise that those foreigners,  they usually won't invite you inside their houses.
f: my husband, not really.
i said it was dangerous.
i think --  are you wondering if those old people who came to this country earlier may not  speak english and they may have this problem.
he simply puts them into the  oven.
and then when he came back to the class, the teacher asked him what happened and why he had not been attending the class.
she only knew how to read the time from a digital display, not the other way to tell the time.
this is one of the reasons of this project.
f: march -- it was still quite cold at that time.
it is difficult to get a job here.
but my friend is a taiwanese.
the homework and project  which my son is doing is very different from what we used to do.
and on the ceremony that day -- she got an award for maths.
most of the foreigners think we chinese, most of us, will go to see chinese doctors when we fall ill and don't go to see the gps.
i am very friendly with our neighbour -- she is nearly 88 years old.
i think that is because of the fresher air, a lot  of space, a slower pace of life, so people here live longer.
some people don't have money to pay for that.
yes, we have some  contacts, but that is not as easy as it is in taiwan.
and when i asked the teacher how  to answer, he (she) said to say "not bad", then they would not carry  on asking about the problems.
they wonder whether most of the chinese people prefer to see chinese doctors.
f: we learned it bit by bit.
he did  not know what was right and what was not wrong.
i came to her place, a bungalow in {location},  which is immaculate clean and tidy.
i: but do you go to church?
i: no. f: she used to share the same office with him (her?).
then it is time to bring them home.
they could not solve my problems, but after chatting with them, i felt better.
the problems were still there, but you had someone to talk to.
but i think the children who  grow up here, they will be completely different from us.
we have  different viewpoints on different things.
here some people go to church, i don't think it is useful.
their department is very tough, they needed to attend the classes, to do the course work, and also to take exams for many subjects.
i think i would not be able to control myself  not to interfere.
we tell them to do this, not to do that -- the foreigners don't.
i: did you come here with your husband, or did your husband come over here on his own first?
but of course some doctors are not as  good as others.
f: i don't know how to do that too.
but they are going home soon, so they don't care.
it is very convenient as they are delivered to his home.
if there  is any dirt on their clothes, i will wash them as soon as possible.
there is -- but, because, i have a friend who works in the chinese medicine centre, on saturday, they have a lot of foreign patients -- some of them are old men or old ladies.
because you think that you are not working and you  are supposed to look after the children and the home well.
we stayed there for three years and then we went  back to taiwan.
like us, after we  finish the study, we will leave.
f: nearly four years i: nearly four years.
it may be better for the children, but how about for the adults, for example, how about job opportunities, friends... f: yes, less good.
he is so capable -- he knows how to do  that.
for example asthma -- like my son, he suffers from asthma when the weather is not good ...
i said how come you expect a result by taking them just twice -- they are not poison.
when i listen to her, i was worrying about her.
f: it was not mainly because -- it was not because they could not help -- like, how do you say it, there are some women's illness diseases, western doctors cannot diagnose them.
i felt my legs were very sore, i told them that i  was very tired, but they did not stop talking.
yes, now if i hear that, for example, someone has just come over to this country, and they are talking with foreigners, i will tell them, i will tell them if you say it in this way, the hearer will think you are very rude.
f: in taiwan, i did not have many friends, only a few.
they  don't know how to say it formally.
i wanted to see a doctor, but didn't know who to go to.
f: before i went to see a doctor, if i didn't know how to describe my  symptoms, i would look them up in a dictionary beforehand and try to memorise  the words.
the education system is not same as ours.
they need exercise in that kind of weather.
mainly because the rhythm of life here is slower.
when i first  came here, i was not familiar with the environment, i had no friends and also i  felt the pressure, i felt very tired, really.
i care too much about other  people.
you have to take the antibiotics for several days before you see the result.
i said just  say the main points, if they don't understand, what can we do?
people here have a  different concept about what standard should be achieved to give out an award  -- you don't have to get 100 to get an award.
like us, after we finish the study, we will leave.
my husband's english is also not very good, but he is very good at chatting with other people.
i came at the time when tony blair won, then he came to power immediately.
i find that is quite good.
i: did you work before you came here?
summer, when the weather is better.
now i also do the ironing, we didn't iron  our clothes in taiwan.
i: is your husband more relaxed?
husband just  concentrates on his study and the wife is responsible for everything related to  the whole family.
he just worried that they might disturb other passengers.
it teaches you many things.
interviewee - (f) interviewer  - (i)
and i told her that {son}  hadn't finished his homework yet.
talking about it is pretty important i: since we are chinese, do you feel that you have greater pressure in  this country?
that is something like that.
i said "but they are children".
some people may ask  for help, but she is not like that.
then he did not pass, he could not carry on to do a {qualification}.
but for the chronic illnesses, i  think chinese medicine is better.
although he had a {qualification} already, it was not useful because it was not recognised here.
f: religions can be part of it.
they thought of getting a job in hong kong because the wages in hong kong are high.
the man said his cousin had the same name as him, but he was not working at the university.
i would ask them what it meant.
but how your husband, does he like you to work?
i asked her what year she was in -- year 5 -- in year 5, she still did not know how to do those things.
my husband organised the trip and then when  we were back, i had to do the washing.
how come she also got an award?
also, sometimes when they come, our house may be a bit messy, then i may just chat with them outside the house for 10 mins or 15 mins.
sometime, i saw he was going to be short of breath, but he would overcome it and get better later.
i don't know how to say it in english.
i just don't want to be out for so many days.
although she told me that she was now very happy and satisfied with her life here, there seemed to be a time that she had great difficulties (the first year when she came).
i: what is your aim in coming here?
because we thought most of the patients were chinese, but it was not so.
i: have you talked about that with your friends or someone else, like  people who are also parents.
she does not like her mum's attitude  towards religion -- she has her own interpretation about the bible.
i found that they gave out the award to  both groups of students.
in her 40s, married with 2 children.
some are not good and waste your time.
f: here, there are a lot of bad students in their secondary school.
although  he had a {qualification} already, it was not useful because it was not  recognised here.
for the children, western medicine is more effective.
during which period have you felt happier?
i listen to her on the phone, i think she  is a bit impolite.
you have a stable income, that is very important, and you can live very healthily, i think (laugh).
i went to see them and they said it was normal.
he is not very healthy -- he likes taking medicine.
does that imply  that people here are healthier?
i: you prefer working or not?
they talked about pregnancy and i listened to them.
i don't know whether you have the same feeling?
f: my family members are in taiwan.
if that is for we chinese, it must be at least a few months  for the transition.
but most of them are like that.
he was absent for a few days and did not attend the class for a few  days.
f: {person} is very nice.
the dental treatment is expensive.
f: i still have someone who i got to know through {person}-- {person}  (??)--
i am  quite friendly with a few of them, but some of them have left already.
that is if i know how you think of me -- when i say  something, i know you would think of me like that.
i think first you have a job, you have money -- that is very important -- you have money -- then if you want to do something, like go to see a doctor, you will have no problem, isn't that so?
he is not bad, he did not join in, but he did  watch.
but later i found that when i was not at home, my husband would read books in his room and our children would watch television or do something else in the living room.
then i found some homework for her to do.
my husband is a serious person.
during holidays, oh dear, all the  parks are packed with people.
the teacher has  taught a lot of foreigners.
in taiwan, yes, he did.
two  girls, they were two girls, their levels were not the same.
they bring them -- take them to the car.
i: are you still listening to those tapes here?
our attitude towards children -- the cultures are completely  different -- their mums don't care.
then we will  forget about all the polite words, like "please".
f: people are everywhere.
my sister told me that being a housewife is very demanding, very hard.
those neighbours are quite good, but -- i don't know-- maybe that is my personality -- not so open.
if you can't wash your hair or take a bath, they will help you.
f: yes, but i did not talk a lot.
she said that if we had no friends, we could go to their house for christmas.
f: taiwanese -- we did not know many of them, because the place where we  used to live was not close to the university, therefore we did not have much  connection.
place children in a high position and let them come down themselves -- i find it very ... looking for a word.)
he is also quite  friendly with the teachers.
a man came to repair -- to check... (point to the  firework)
[babies] in {european country}.
anyway, she is a good person.
they won't ask what part of your body is not well.
this is different from us chinese.
but they are going home this  year.
i don't know about the other people, but i know her well because i had taught her.
f: it is difficult to say.
if she did not call my  name, i would just sit there and not say a lot.
they  are really bad.
i went to see them and they said it  was normal.
but do you prefer it if they are close to you or not? f: good or bad, it depends.
of course, you can't get the biscuits or bread twice.
because they had to study for a master's degree in their first year.
but the foreign mothers don't care about this.
they have meals delivered to them.
there should be plenty of time, but it is busy -- time is flying.
we tell them to do this, not to do  that -- the foreigners don't.
when i came back, they would rush to turn off the television.
our children were playing on the train and then my husband said "look!
otherwise we would have been better off not coming and just letting  my husband come over here on his own.
they divided students by their results -- say top group, second group.
talking about it is pretty important i: since we are chinese, do you feel that you have greater pressure in this country?
my husband said "look, how much you can talk -- you chatted  on the phone for such a long time, how come you say you don't talk much
generally, western medicine is effective, but people say drugs are not good.
if there is no topic, i will have nothing to say.
i: how did you cope with it?
i: is your expectation a bit high?
but children can't resist ice-cold food.
f: our friend said that i care too much about what other people think of  me.
f: sports day -- it was because my son asked me to go there.
i  asked them why i got it, they said it is probably because of stress.
but i don't like going out so much.
i wanted to see a doctor, but  didn't know who to go to.
they asked {person} to teach us english and we paid a little bit of  money.
f: i still have someone who i got to know through {person}-- {person} (??)--
our next door neighbour is  also 88.
because you asked me, so i will tell you.
apart from yourself -- you went to see a chinese doctor once,  how about your family members?
f: but there are not many opportunities there.
f: it depends -- take the children to school and bring them home, and then go shopping.
if we were in taiwan, that would not  matter because we were all chinese.
the rest of the medicine was left untouched.
they were very polite, they said things very formally, otherwise they think you are rude.
i do it on my own, i do the ironing for four people, it is very tiring.
although i know that it is not  good, i find it difficult to change myself.
they won't ask what part of your body is not  well.
if you need further treatment,  you have to join the long waiting list.
if a western doctor can do nothing, then you need to see a chinese doctor.
the course is grade number.
f: i found it very expensive.
although she wants to have her son around, she thinks that her son has his own family problems and she does not want to disturb him.
a friend of mine, who is a teacher, told us that  his (her) child jumped down from a high place.
firstly, the environment is better.
i was very worried about him.
i: (laugh) have you ever visited a chinese doctor here?
i think they are different.
otherwise we would have been better off not coming and just letting my husband come over here on his own.
there is a lot of homework, but not so hard, they are catching up gradually.
they could not solve my problems, but after chatting with  them, i felt better.
i feel that some parts of my body have  some problems.
i would ask  them what it meant.
i found it so strange.
mainly because the rhythm of life  here is slower.
i: do you have many friends here now? f: now we have some friends here, but they have their own private affairs.
i: not the same? f: because he (she) felt my pulse --
he is a profession here.
yes, some of them are more reserved.
f: before i went to see a doctor, if i didn't know how to describe my symptoms, i would look them up in a dictionary beforehand and try to memorise the words.
she does not care -- even though her english is not good, she still tries.
but in taiwan, they all go to see chinese doctor.
i: maybe we are not the same.
i found that they gave out the award to both groups of students.
because our orientations are not the same, attitudes are not the same.
we travelled on the train -- a few years ago -- about two years ago --  at that time our children were still quite young -- we did not have a car, we  travelled by trains.
she did not know how to do more than 10.
we here -- medicine -- see £5 can last -- i found it very expensive.
there is a lot of homework, but not so hard, they are  catching up gradually.
but then there may be some troubles.
f: if it is possible, i am willing to do so.
if i did not feel  good, i cried and then i felt alright.
f: haven't worked for a long time, yes.
she probably doesn't go to church.
they are still  quite young, but they are pregnant.
but that man -- his wife has died already and he has no children --
we chinese have the concept that  bringing up children to help with their old age.
i went to see chinese doctors in taiwan sometimes, i drank the  medicine too.
a high population and  a high number of cars, people are everywhere.
but i didn't like it -- it made me uncomfortable.
f: taiwanese -- we did not know many of them, because the place where we used to live was not close to the university, therefore we did not have much connection.
f: what do you mean by "difficulties"?
rich people don't have to worry too much before they go to see a doctor.
because we attended the class and our  friends told us that the english people like that, you should say it in that  way.
i prefer to look after my two  children well, because my husband does not care about this.
although she told me that she was now very happy and satisfied with her  life here, there seemed to be a time that she had great difficulties (the first  year when she came).
the other day -- it is the holidays at the moment and we have no classes at the university -- a few "tai tai", who are going home soon, contacted {person}.
it is mainly because the weather, now you know what to wear for different weather.
but my husband is better because he has got quite a lot  of friends.
i think i would not be able to control myself not to interfere.
i: you mean he is a fun person.
some people have gatherings at their homes or their friend's homes.
if  there is no topic, i will have nothing to say.
when we were in taiwan, my husband was always very busy and i felt very bored  at home all day.
that is the difference -- we are very warm-hearted, we are like this.
if you have  relations, you can contact them sometimes.
i: earlier you said if you didn't feel well, you would go and see the  doctor?
my sister told me that being a housewife is very demanding, very  hard.
i bought some tapes and i felt better.
if i go with him, i would remind him what to do and what not to do.
they don't have to take some difficult or dangerous jobs.
later, i told him that it was not good, not good, not good.
of course we have some friends, that is, that is every family has its own problems.
after i cried for a few times, i felt better.
for example, i said 31 minus 9, she did it in this way.
i want my children going out with clean clothes, i don't want them to be dirty.
he is better at speaking -- maybe this is down to his personality --
i: do you have any difficulties when you go to see the doctor, and is it convenient?
you foreigners are making a loud noise on the train.
even in taiwan, the old generations and young generations are very different, they are really different.
she does not want people to feel disgusted with her.
but now i know about it, before that i was a bit stupid and didn't understand that, and also no one taught me about that.
of course, they have different expectation on the students from the top group and the second group -- the teachers are not the same and neither is the homework.
i think if i went with him, i would be in charge of him.
he is better at speaking -- maybe this is down to his personality  --
also, because the welfare for the elderly people is good.
f: you felt uncomfortable if you used it, but he felt uncomfortable if he did not use it.
f: i don't, i am a buddhist.
f: firstly, i cannot find it possible to calm myself down, there are so  many things to do and i cannot stop.
although she wants to have her son around,  she thinks that her son has his own family problems and she does not want to  disturb him.
he (she) went to a pub with us.
they wonder whether  most of the chinese people prefer to see chinese doctors.
f: they are alright.
she studied a master degree in subject and was  in a profession before.
f: he is capable of doing that.
although she said that she was very quiet, she seemed to be very relaxed and willing to share her views.
i feel i will lose face.
you stood there and they stood  there too --
f: the children don't have to pay for the treatment if you go to see a  western doctor, but not a chinese doctor.
our neighbours  here are quite friendly.
i sometime asked him to bring me out after his work.
our next door neighbour is a lady and she cooks for herself.
we stayed there for three years and then we went back to taiwan.
the biggest difference between western medicine and chinese medicine is that, for western medicine, you will see the result in a few days, but for chinese medicine, it may take a few months, you have to wait.
a friend of mine, who is a teacher, told us that his (her) child jumped down from a high place.
she does not like her mum's attitude towards religion -- she has her own interpretation about the bible.
it is very  convenient as they are delivered to his home.
if there are some problems with your mental health, then nothing will be alright.
the  next door old lady, she is clever.
even though there were some taiwanese students, they came here to  study, also they were..., that is, that is not the same.
what you can get are those low class jobs -- such as a cleaner or something like that.
maybe they just get use to being like that.
when i listen to  her, i was worrying about her.
we chinese have the concept that bringing up children to help with their old age.
f: i said that to him.
i am looking for perfection.
also after hearing that for many times, you know how to talk with them in a way that is polite.
i feel religions can be very influential.
sometimes they will chat with us.
we travelled on the train -- a few years ago -- about two years ago -- at that time our children were still quite young -- we did not have a car, we travelled by trains.
i did not work again.
the class seems to be quite useful.
he [my husband] was very serious.
yes, i was told that most of them are foreigners, they are not  chinese.
but i quit the job later when my husband  went to {european country}.
i: i feel that you are very active -- you visit other people.
it is good to  have a chance to speak a bit of english.
of course, some of them are nice.
he would have more freedom if i don't go.
he (she) did not worry about his (her) child and said that his (her)  child knew how to get down from the high place.
i: when you were in taiwan, if you had any problems, who did you talk to?
why? f: i don't know.
probably the teacher asked the question quite casually.
maybe they just get  use to being like that.
i am not using it now, i have sore throat and it is very  uncomfortable.
i think so -- so he has got quite a lot of friends.
they don't know how to say it formally.
generally, western medicine  is effective, but people say drugs are not good.
he is so capable -- he knows how to do that.
i don't know, they are like that, they won't  invite you inside and offer you a cup of tea.
if there are some problems with your mental health, then nothing will  be alright.
you might not think that way as i talk a lot with you (laugh).
i do it on my own, i do the ironing  for four people, it is very tiring.
f: no, we still go out.
and then when he came back to the class, the teacher asked him what  happened and why he had not been attending the class.
i  did not go in the first year, and my son said "mum, you did not  come".
but there are many cases in taiwan when chinese medicine killed the patients.
so i feel -- it is something like this.
f: you felt uncomfortable if you used it, but he felt uncomfortable if he  did not use it.
i did not go on some school trips with him.
so i  really don't know which of them is more effective.
yes, i was told that most of them are foreigners, they are not chinese.
they have a lot  of foreign patients.
i did  not work again.
i: how long have you been here?
our children, they enjoyed it very much.
when we came here and saw what it should be like.
i talked about that with my husband.
i don't know whether you understand.
but we are in a foreign country, we should  behave better -- i feel this is very tiring.
he (she) said we  english people did not listen to something like this -- how could you mention  something like this so casually.
but i think the children who grow up here, they will be completely different from us.
i will then sit there and not know what to do.
f: at that time, i preferred working.
when we were  students, we had to do the homework and also pass all the tests.
i've brought some books with me, but i  have not read them either.
you said earlier that it was hard when you first came here - the main reason is what? f: that is, that is the language problem.
potatoes -- they have a christmas party -- quite good -- the council pays for that.
since then, we went to their house every christmas -- 24th, 25th, 27th, we went there (laugh).
but sometimes i find my english is not very good, so i  am not very close to them.
when we were students, we had to do the homework and also pass all the tests.
but i think you can do the same because you are also willing to chat with people.
if you have some friends it means that there will be some problems and gossip.
my husband asked his name -- {name} -- a teacher at his department had the same first name and surname as the man -- he asked whether they had any connection.
this is quite a good learning environment.
but here  students need to search for a lot of books and to plan how to go about their  work.
it seems that it is in the nature of him.
but they have a different concept.
f: it was not mainly because -- it was not because they could not help --
i: but are you going to the class and attending the sports day?
the doctors said -- sometimes, if they used spoken english which i didn't understand, i would ask them to clarify what they had said.
those neighbours are quite good, but -- i  don't know-- maybe that is my personality -- not so open.
i: so you understand it now.
we went to the class and our  teacher told us that if an english people asks "how are you", you  must answer "fine", don't say, don't say you have any problems, they  won't be prepared to listen to you.
you have to take the antibiotics for several days before you see the  result.
if there is any dirt on their clothes, i will wash them as soon as possible.
my son -- i told him recently -- your inhaler has steroids, isn't it?
what is  "off-colour"?
at that time, my daughter was very small -- i was a bit worried.
sometimes, i would ask them to write it down for me.
but in  taiwan, always be quick, be quick, otherwise you can't compete with other  people, you can't catch up, you have to be faster than other people.
if you come here to study only, you leave once  you get your degree.
also the doctors, like what i said, the english  people -- they said something very formally -- "how are you",  "fine" -- just something like this.
that is why we were surprised.
and i told her that {son} hadn't finished his homework yet.
in taiwan we felt that too much  homework and pressure was not good.
also, it is not easy to get a  job.
i: how about the health service of this country?
although i have  thought of it, i finally decided not to.
later, i realise that those foreigners, they usually won't invite you inside their houses.
i: why did you go to see a chinese doctor at that time?
but i could not read it, because their handwriting is very sloppy.
also in taiwan, we need to be quick all the time.
even when i went to do the shopping and came back late, they would act as if i  was not there.
it sounds impossible -- she should not have been able to make such great progress in such a short time.
husband was in his late 40s.
you mean he takes his own medicine.
even when i went to do the shopping and came back late, they would act as if i was not there.
they thought of getting  a job in hong kong because the wages in hong kong are high.
i: did your family come over to see you? f: yes, they did.
but i think there is quite a lot of spare time here, isn't there?
because i think if  we can get along, we are friends.
so  i wonder whether i should work or do something.
he did not use an inhaler in taiwan.
the other day -- it is the holidays at the moment and we  have no classes at the university -- a few "tai tai", who are going  home soon, contacted {person}.
at that time, i  also asked her to do a calculation -- i've forgotten the question already --  she did not do it correctly.
i think if i went  with him, i would be in charge of him.
f: at the very beginning i worked.
i: do you have any difficulties when you go to see the doctor, and is it  convenient?
he (she) is a  teacher, he (she) has the experience and he (she) did not worry.
what is "off-colour"?
so i really don't know which of them is more effective.
in this area, here in {british location}, most of our neighbours are quite old.
if you want to live in a nice place, then it is no problem.
she does not care -- even though her  english is not good, she still tries.
who can you go for if you still have any problems, since your friend  is leaving.
f: you have that too.
although she wants her son to come to see her, but she does not  force him do so.
also, it is not easy to get a job.
in taiwan, we shouted for democracy for a long time, said how we chinese people should be, it was all the talk.
i feel that things are always like this.
they also have a family.
i asked them and they said it did not matter.
if you are mentally healthy, you will have no  problems.
i feel the welfare benefits for the elderly people are better here.
i told him that i was bored, tired, and was not comfortable staying at home.
he chatted with my husband.
then we will forget about all the polite words, like "please".
he (she) did not worry about his (her) child and said that his (her) child knew how to get down from the high place.
but there are many cases in taiwan when chinese medicine  killed the patients.
anyway, i took the medicine.
but that was what he (she) had asked about.
f: i feel it is alright, not bad.
i: no. f: i am not good at communicating with people.
there are some advantages in working too.
they help them to do what  they can't do at home.
then i did addition and subtraction with them.
can he speak cantonese?
he would  have more freedom if i don't go.
recently he hasn't taken the medicine.
my husband often comments on it.
i am not using it now, i have sore throat and it is very uncomfortable.
i've brought those tapes with me, but i haven't listened to them yet  (laugh).
our next door neighbour  is a lady and she cooks for herself.
and then when we come back, i need to do a  lot of laundry.
f: i might scold the children -- i don't know -- because my son did not behave well in the first year.
i find the countryside here very beautiful.
i: but were you the same in taiwan?
i: what sort of person is she?
we have different viewpoints on different things.
if you move to here, it would not be easy to deal with the society here.
i prefer to look after my two children well, because my husband does not care about this.
but we think that if you ask me, then i should tell you.
the english people are like this.
i: but how about yourself, you have been in this country for four years.
then my husband -- my husband's surname is {name}-- told him that his surname in chinese also means "{name}", so they were both "{name}" -- belonging to the royal family.
so it can be good or bad, it is difficult to say.
otherwise, i would not have been able to do that, if i had had to  rush back to pick the children up.
i: what do you think about mental health? ...
because i think if we can get along, we are friends.
a high population and a high number of cars, people are everywhere.
now we know they emphasise that, otherwise you are like a barbarian.
she had very rather high  expectations on her children, their study, appearance, and herself (including  her english and her homemaking).
{person} retired last  year.
since then, we went to their house every christmas --  24th, 25th, 27th, we went there (laugh).
for the subtraction, she knew how to do minus nine,  minus 10, but not minus 11.
bullying is very common, real bullying.
if not, i don't want to waste my time.
after visiting them for  a few times, you know which ones are good and will try to stick with them.
probably the teacher  asked the question quite casually.
it is not important whether the clothes are good  quality or not, but they should be clean.
for example, we chinese are not the  same as them -- we are very courteous to our visitors -- "please come in  and take a seat" -- unlike our neighbours; if you chatted with them at  their front doors for half an hour, 45 mins, or even an hour, they still would  not invite you to go inside.
we also have regular contacts.
most of the foreigners  think we chinese, most of us, will go to see chinese doctors when we fall ill  and don't go to see the gps.
unless i talk to  those i am familiar with, otherwise i don't have much to say, especially in  english conversations.
exploring diverse  interview types - feminist interviews extract 1 page last updated 8 november 2011 © copyright  2003-2012 universities of essex and manchester.
f: sometimes, i listened to the tapes, to the buddhist sermons.
i don't know about  the other people, but i know her well because i had taught her.
you  will feel -- i don't know how about in hong kong.
because she used her fingers.
the children did not care.
the teacher has taught a lot of foreigners.
now i also do the ironing, we didn't iron our clothes in taiwan.
he talked to my son, but my son did not believe it -- he found using it very convenient -- he was surprised to hear that it could be additive -- he felt in great pain without it.
our situations are quite similar because  her husband is also not young.
at that  time, my daughter was very small -- i was a bit worried.
she only knew how to read the time from a digital display, not the  other way to tell the time.
i don't have a lot to say, i don't have a lot to say.
but many people don't go to church, many people don't go to church.
but i didn't like it --  it made me uncomfortable.
i: how about your children?
i: once, how did you like it?
he takes his own medicine without  seeing a doctor...
that is quite interesting.
you have money, you can afford to see a doctor or to be ill.
i talked with him, he studies medicine --
because we stayed at {location} and my husband brought my daughter out -- shopping before christmas -- and met {person}.
a bit like an infection, they all got pregnant.
for  example, some doctors will talk a lot with you, but some just ask how you are  and then you come out very quickly.
they don't  have to take some difficult or dangerous jobs.
i used to attend the class as well.
he is not bad -- in his school, in the secondary school, some students are behaving very badly, they are really bad.
we chinese people say that for acute illness, consult a western doctor; for chronic illness, see a chinese doctor (laugh).
for the children, western medicine is more  effective.
you have a family and then you have some friends.
you  have a family and then you have some friends.
like, how do you say it, there are some women's illness diseases, western  doctors cannot diagnose them.
he (she) said we english people did not listen to something like this -- how could you mention something like this so casually.
i think that is because of the fresher air, a lot of space, a slower pace of life, so people here live longer.
it is impossible and you have to wait, that is the down side of it.
the western doctors said it was normal.
a study has shown that rich people live longer (laugh).
but his friends are also your friends, aren't they?
but that man -- his wife has died already  and he has no children -- so sometimes he has that kind of meal.
because we stayed at {location} and my  husband brought my daughter out -- shopping before christmas -- and met  {person}.
the medicine was expensive and the cost was not covered by  the nhs, i paid for it myself.
she brought me to see a  chinese doctor there -- they have a chinese doctor there.
coffee should be alright  .... potatoes -- they have a christmas party -- quite good -- the council pays  for that.
but my husband is better because he has got quite a lot of friends.
they divided students by their results  -- say top group, second group.
like last time, my son's school has an award... i: ceremony?
i felt my legs were very sore, i told them that i was very tired, but they did not stop talking.
like here there are some areas -- with a lot  of single parents, they use bad language.
sometimes they go to see art exhibitions, to pubs.
i went to watch films with my friends a few times, and my husband went to pick up the children.
the man said  his cousin had the same name as him, but he was not working at the university.
it may be, because her teacher thought that her performance in the second group was quite good -- she also got a certificate.
she does not want people to feel  disgusted with her.
she said they had their own life,  she did not want to go and disturb them.
every wednesday, they go to 'place', a kind of centre for the elderly people -- they come and bring them out.
but that affected me -- i did not feel the  atmosphere was right --
that may be because of my personality.
f: the children don't have to pay for the treatment if you go to see a western doctor, but not a chinese doctor.
i have not worked since i came here.
but there are a lot of taiwanese here.
when i first came here, i did not know about that.
if you need further treatment, you have to join the long waiting list.
two girls, they were two girls, their levels were not the same.
because we attended the class and our friends told us that the english people like that, you should say it in that way.
you go there and all you can see is people.
i  asked her to write down the time-table, but she could not.
the medicine was expensive and the cost was not covered by the nhs, i paid for it myself.
he asked me to go, but i did not.
after you take the children to the school, you don't have time to do much and then it is time to bring them home.
you have money, you can afford to see a doctor or to be  ill.
she studied a master degree in subject and was in a profession before.
if that is for we chinese, it must be at least a few months for the transition.
so i wonder whether i should work or do something.
but my husband did not.
i: why did you find it hard?
i: i started to use it last september...
she may have spent a lot of time on tidying  the house.
i listen to him and find it very interesting.
each month the elderly people can get £70, is it £70 or more...
f: i have a friend who is also from taiwan.
i: that is pretty good ...
i: do you have taiwanese friends here?
i: you don't go there.
f: it is better now.
f: this behaviour is not just to the foreigners, he is a bit unkind.
we here -- medicine -- see £5 can last  -- i found it very expensive.
i: but my previous flatmates from taiwan, they were able to get some  part time jobs.
i: what do think the reasons for this?
when i first came here, i was not familiar with the environment, i had no friends and also i felt the pressure, i felt very tired, really.
you eat "pai choi", you will have a lot of  discharges, that is normal.
we went to the class and our teacher told us that if an english people asks "how are you", you must answer "fine", don't say, don't say you have any problems, they won't be prepared to listen to you.
there are more opportunities  in taiwan, more opportunities in taiwan.
he (she) is a teacher, he (she) has the experience and he (she) did not worry.
if a western doctor can do nothing, then you need to see  a chinese doctor.
f: how long have you used it for?
it is because before we have a  trip out, i have to do the packing.
f: the hardest period, that would be the first year.
what do think about it?
a bit like an  infection, they all got pregnant.
but here the new people took up the job the next day.
you are -- a second class citizen.
you mentioned about most of the problems related to mental and  physical... f: yes, mental and physical, i think they are closely linked.
i also have -- {person} -- {person} is also quite good.
it means a bit like "ill".
i find that the social benefits here  are good.
you mentioned about most of the problems related to mental and physical... f: yes, mental and physical, i think they are closely linked.
i said just say the main points, if they don't understand, what can we do?
i: what do you think about here?
you will feel -- i don't know how about in hong kong.
they are not like this.
but it is not the same here.
i gave birth to a baby
i was surprised to see one of the students -- because a girl who was my son's classmate in the primary school, she is also living in {location}, she came to see my son quite often.
yes, yes, i don't think you can't talk a lot.
you said earlier that it was hard when you first came here - the main  reason is what? f: that is, that is the language problem.
he (she) went to a pub  with us.
f: i threw the medicine away before i finished it (laugh).
i saw the doctor once and took a long time to  boil the medicine.
f: yes, but there is nothing more than that.
otherwise, i would not have been able to do that, if i had had to rush back to pick the children up.
if we were in taiwan, that would not matter because we were all chinese.
after crying, i still need a friend to talk with.
my husband always  says that i should go out to know more people, but i think i am not good at  communicating with people.
but it is better with the old lady, because she is  quite old and also she is a bit forgetful.
so all the pressure is only temporary, it will not be -- if i thought about staying here forever, then i'd have a lot to consider.
attitudes are not the same.
but i quit the job later when my husband went to {european country}.
he does not say that i must work.
i don't know, i don't know whether those people you are interviewing know english.
our situations are quite similar because her husband is also not young.
that is if i know how you think of me -- when i say something, i know you would think of me like that.
there is -- but, because, i have  a friend who works in the chinese medicine centre, on saturday, they have a lot  of foreign patients -- some of them are old men or old ladies.
i did not have asthma before.
i found her so strange
i feel  i will lose face.
coffee should be alright ....
our neighbours here are quite friendly.
also they are a bit different from us chinese.
but sometimes i still make some mistakes (laugh).
but chinese medicine can help, like we chinese say what sorts of things are "cold" and what sorts of things are "hot", isn't it?
her husband is from hong kong.
f: our friend said that i care too much about what other people think of me.
f: when did you stop? ...
but later i found some advantages in not working.
i: you haven't worked for a long time.
i saw the doctor once and took a long time to boil the medicine.
the homework and project which my son is doing is very different from what we used to do.
in this area,  here in {british location}, most of our neighbours are quite old.
i want my  children going out with clean clothes, i don't want them to be dirty.
my husband always says that i should go out to know more people, but i think i am not good at communicating with people.
of  course, you can't get the biscuits or bread twice.
however she quit her job when her children were born.
f: i would take them, but he -- he said antibiotics are not effective.
i: do you still have any problems in adjusting now?
f: yes, i come from taiwan.
her thinking is different from us.
he told me that his friend's mum did not wash his clothes for him -- every times he had a pe class, he used the spray to get rid of the odour.
very sloppy, so i gave up.
they help them to do what they can't do at home.
she had very rather high expectations on her children, their study, appearance, and herself (including her english and her homemaking).
but later i found some advantages in  not working.
they are going home soon.
it is  impossible in taiwan.
she does  not want people to think she is troublesome.
f: it is the same here.
f: yes, it is very hard.
you eat "pai choi", you will have a lot of discharges, that is normal.
i was surprised to see one of the students -- because  a girl who was my son's classmate in the primary school, she is also living in  {location}, she came to see my son quite often.
does any of your family members go to see a  chinese doctor?
i: i also have similar belief.
f: it depends -- take the children to school and bring them home, and then  go shopping.
but sometimes i find my english is not very good, so i am not very close to them.
i spend a lot of time doing housework.
i  don't want to pretend to be friendly.
that one is not good, it can  be addictive.
you stood there and they stood there too --
f: my husband came here to study for a {qualification}, so we came along  too.
so sometimes he has that kind of meal.
anyway, she  is a good person.
i found that they are really very democratic.
a rather well-off family, they paid about £460 a month on rent.
does any of your family members go to see a chinese doctor?
but i worry a lot about my children.
rich  people don't have to worry too much before they go to see a doctor.
i: (laugh) why didn't you listen to them?
gradually, he gets better -- he forces himself not to use it.
for the subtraction, she knew how to do minus nine, minus 10, but not minus 11.
-- {person}-- she is retired.
then my husband -- my husband's surname is {name}-- told him that his surname  in chinese also means "{name}", so they were both "{name}"  -- belonging to the royal family.
but we think that if you ask me, then i should  tell you.
f: yes, when we first arrived.
f: yes, now if i hear that, for example, someone has just come over to this  country, and they are talking with foreigners, i will tell them, i will tell  them if you say it in this way, the hearer will think you are very rude.
yes, yes, i have the same feeling too.
i care too much about other people.
she said that if we had no friends, we could go to their  house for christmas.
of course, there are some good chinese doctors, but you have to get to the right person.
but for the chronic illnesses, i think chinese medicine is better.
f: our children -- my son in the secondary school -- they have a lot of  clothes.
of course, there are some good chinese doctors, but you  have to get to the right person.
he said it is more important  to take care of everything at home.
i did not go on some school  trips with him.
he has a lot of friends.
some people have  gatherings at their homes or their friend's homes.
but here students need to search for a lot of books and to plan how to go about their work.
it may be, because  her teacher thought that her performance in the second group was quite good --  she also got a certificate.
there seems to be a clear division of labour at home.
it may be better for the children, but how about for the adults, for  example, how about job opportunities, friends... f: yes, less good.
i: they come every wed?
i don't think that is good.
every time i ate "pai choi", i would have a noticeable reaction to it immediately.
in taiwan, this is not possible.
now i've learned how to deal  with it -- i also may not invite them into my house.
i: earlier you said if you didn't feel well, you would go and see the doctor?
he (she) did not think so.
you said earlier that the life here is more relaxing.
also because of my husband's study.
and they came back, i had to do the work.
also  they are a bit different from us chinese.
this is why  many foreigners visit taiwan and have the impression that chinese people are  very warm-hearted.
my son -- i told him  recently -- your inhaler has steroids, isn't it?
esds  home page > esds qualidata home page > user >
but in taiwan, they all go to  see chinese doctor.
my husband's english is also  not very good, but he is very good at chatting with other people.
for example, i said  31 minus 9, she did it in this way.
i found it quite hard when i first came here, but it is getting better now.
f: no, i don't think so.
but now it is not easy to find a job.
i: does your family prefer chinese medicine, your family?
for example, some doctors will talk a lot with you, but some just ask how you are and then you come out very quickly.
it is impossible in taiwan.
she pressed the bell and said  she wanted to play with {son}.
that is why we want to find out the reasons.
she said they had their own life, she did not want to go and disturb them.
there are more opportunities in taiwan, more opportunities in taiwan.
i feel that some parts of my body have some problems.
although i have thought of it, i finally decided not to.
he just worried that  they might disturb other passengers.
my husband said "look, how much you can talk -- you chatted on the phone for such a long time, how come you say you don't talk much" ...
i: how about your husband?
f: yes, if i didn't feel well, i would go and see the doctor.
i am not using it now.
even in taiwan, the  old generations and young generations are very different, they are really  different.
i sit  there quietly.
i think -- are you wondering if those old people who came to this country earlier may not speak english and they may have this problem.
i listen to him and  find it very interesting.
they are still quite young, but they are pregnant.
if you have relations, you can contact them sometimes.
yes, we have some contacts, but that is not as easy as it is in taiwan.
that is the main aim of why we came here together.
i asked her what  year she was in -- year 5 -- in year 5, she still did not know how to do those  things.
do you use an inhaler?
the next door old lady, she is clever.
the western  doctors said it was normal.
also, sometimes when they  come, our house may be a bit messy, then i may just chat with them outside the  house for 10 mins or 15 mins.
i: which is the hardest period since you came here?
f: firstly, i cannot find it possible to calm myself down, there are so many things to do and i cannot stop.
we tell them what is right.
what you can get are those low class jobs -- such as a cleaner or  something like that.
of course, relations can help.
so now i see some friends -- not from  taiwan, friends from other countries, whom i met mainly in the english class, i  see them making the same mistakes as i did.
and the next day, the whole  government changed.
he is not bad, he did not join in, but he did watch.
f: we came here together.
also the doctors, like what i said, the english people -- they said something very formally -- "how are you", "fine" -- just something like this.
i told  him that i was bored, tired, and was not comfortable staying at home.
also, they give them tea and lunch.
but i think you can do the same because you are also willing to chat  with people.
some people may ask for help, but she is not like that.
that is why the usage of the nhs -- the statistics  are so low.
the problems were still there, but you had someone to talk  to.
he simply puts them into the oven.
f: i don't know how to chat with people like this.
they stay in their bungalows and seldom move.
her health conditions, such {medical condition} might be a reason .
i: but do you gather together with them?
if you move to here, it would not be easy to deal with the  society here.
when we were in taiwan, my husband was always very busy and i felt very bored at home all day.
f: he doesn't like going to see a doctor here.
i: (laugh) f: the teacher said "oh!
f: i give your example.
and the next day, the whole government changed.
i don't want to pretend to be friendly.
it turned out that that girl did not know how to do multiplication.
ice-cold food is not good for asthma.
i think religions can be a factor.
now we know they emphasise that,  otherwise you are like a barbarian.
what he (she) said  was not the same as the other doctor.
i find that the social benefits here are good.
is it because  the gp could not help?
the biggest difference between western medicine and chinese  medicine is that, for western medicine, you will see the result in a few days,  but for chinese medicine, it may take a few months, you have to wait.
he has a lot of  friends.
i don't know, they are like that, they won't invite you inside and offer you a cup of tea.
i believe there are some good doctors and some bad doctors; it is not possible that all of them are good.
so now i see some friends -- not from taiwan, friends from other countries, whom i met mainly in the english class, i see them making the same mistakes as i did.
i: so you spend a lot of time doing... f: housework?
people here have a different concept about what standard should be achieved to give out an award -- you don't have to get 100 to get an award.
but children  can't resist ice-cold food.
he (she) has a chinese student, who is a man and is  quite old.
if we go out for many days, i will feel very exhausted.
i: because some women have told me that they have language problems.
now i know how to get on with my life (laugh).
for the children, here is better.
the rest of the medicine was left  untouched.
so her son helps her do the shopping every thursday and buys her a newspaper and a lottery ticket every saturday.
so he has a lot of friends.
he (she) asked why he said that.
i don't  know which kind of circumstances you are talking about?
they said many people did not realise it...
also because of my husband's  study.
but they are going home this year.
every time i ate "pai  choi", i would have a noticeable reaction to it immediately.
my husband organised the trip and then when we were back, i had to do the washing.
he is also quite friendly with the teachers.
f: you wonder whether it is because of the language problem?
i said it would not be clean by just using the spray, the stain would still be there.
you know we chinese people are like that.
although she wants her son to come to see her, but she does not force him do so.
if we  go out for many days, i will feel very exhausted.
the doctors said -- sometimes, if they used spoken english which i  didn't understand, i would ask them to clarify what they had said.
he did not use  an inhaler in taiwan.
how do you find the life here?
that one is not good, it can be addictive.
what he (she) said was not the same as the other doctor.
her husband does subject.
f: our next door's next door neighbour is 88.
apart from yourself -- you went to see a chinese doctor once, how about your family members?
you are -- (she started to laugh) relax, it is  alright (laugh).
i: accounting, accounting in hong kong... f: not accounting.
he quit his  previous job.
but here i worried that he might fail the exams.
{person} retired last year.
f: it depends on your aims.
i don't know which kind of circumstances you are talking about?
of course we have some  friends, that is, that is every family has its own problems.
in taiwan, we shouted for  democracy for a long time, said how we chinese people should be, it was all the  talk.
that is why it is better now.
my husband is a serious  person.
but chinese medicine can help, like we chinese  say what sorts of things are "cold" and what sorts of things are  "hot", isn't it?
if you are mentally healthy, you will have no problems.
but then this chinese man replied that he  had been passing some black excrement (laugh).
after you take the children to the school, you don't have time to do much and
so i think i would better not go with my son.
and then last summer i visited my sister.
who can you go for if you still have any problems, since your friend is leaving.
f: but that is not good.
they have a lot of foreign patients.
f: when i saw that my children were looked after well (laugh).
he started to use it here and it was not easy to stop.
if i used it every day, i found my throat was very sore and i  didn't like it.
our children were playing on the train and then my husband  said "look!
but our chinese mums will tell our  children what is right and then ask them to follow it and not to make mistakes.
if you can't  wash your hair or take a bath, they will help you.
sometimes, i would ask them to write it down  for me.
he  talked to my son, but my son did not believe it -- he found using it very  convenient -- he was surprised to hear that it could be additive -- he felt in  great pain without it.
i went to see chinese doctors in taiwan sometimes, i drank the medicine too.
f: only i have seen a chinese doctor here.
gradually, he gets  better -- he forces himself not to use it.
the  dental treatment is expensive.
is it because the gp could not help?
i came at the time when  tony blair won, then he came to power immediately.
because in taiwan they had a lot of homework, but here all the sudden -- he  realised that he can have a different kind of life.
it is good to have a chance to speak a bit of english.
it means a bit like  "ill".
f: yes, it is so disordered in taiwan, very crowded.
he was 87 and this year he was 88.
their department is very tough, they needed to attend the  classes, to do the course work, and also to take exams for many subjects.
he quit his previous job.
i felt very exhausted.
this is why many foreigners visit taiwan and have the impression that chinese people are very warm-hearted.
there was no problem.
he said it is more important to take care of everything at home.
so her son helps her do the shopping  every thursday and buys her a newspaper and a lottery ticket every saturday.
i am quite friendly with a few of them, but some of them have left already.
i: did you meet her when you first came here?
how many years did you use it for?
because we thought most of the  patients were chinese, but it was not so.
she pressed the bell and said she wanted to play with {son}.
after visiting them for a few times, you know which ones are good and will try to stick with them.
i am usually like that.
looking for a word.)
you have a stable income, that is  very important, and you can live very healthily, i think (laugh).
i don't know what i should do.
for example, we chinese are not the same as them -- we are very courteous to our visitors -- "please come in and take a seat" -- unlike our neighbours; if you chatted with them at their front doors for half an hour, 45 mins, or even an hour, they still would not invite you to go inside.
yes? f: when you have a headache, don't mention it, talk to your doctor about  the problem, don't mention it to other people.
that is the main aim of why we came here  together.
a rather well-off family, they paid  about £460 a month on rent.
i feel they are related.
they asked {person} to teach us english and we paid a little bit of money.
then i did addition and  subtraction with them.
i listen to her on the phone, i think she is a bit impolite.
they stay in  their bungalows and seldom move.
it is because before we have a trip out, i have to do the packing.
she will try to do things herself.
he (she) has a chinese student, who is a man and is quite old.
a bag of medicine costs £5, very expensive, it is very expensive.
sometimes a trip out is  quite good.
yes.... f: i think i think it is the same here.
although she said that she was very quiet, she seemed to be very relaxed  and willing to share her views.
he told me that his friend's mum did not wash his  clothes for him -- every times he had a pe class, he used the spray to get rid  of the odour.
if you want to live in a  nice place, then it is no problem.
her health conditions, such {medical condition} might be a  reason .
i: that is pretty good.