one of the long-standing mysteries surrounding acupuncture is why the technique only seems to alleviate pain if needles are inserted at specific points.
electricity is applied in some circumstances, but rarely.
which could mean random.
it took a lot of time, waiting for my turn, getting the needles and chatting with the doctor about regimen and mental health.
of course, the acupuncture industry isn't going to let go that easily, and interprets such results with truculence: "see," they cry, "acupuncture is so great that evenplacebo acupuncture works!
on rare occasion, yes.
scientists and sceptics alike have no problem with the possibility that acupuncture has a painkilling effect, so this study doesn't contradict them.
30 may 2010 9:19pm chinese herbs and acupuncture cured my ailments and those of other people i know.
30 may 2010 8:41pm duh.. 30 may 2010 8:41pm "i think you will find it is called the scientific method."
people need comfort and love, the world can be a sucky place.
if your money is sitting in a bank needed for your medical treatment :-)
as a practical matter, i don't really care if acupuncture is a placebo (i don't think it is).
after a half-hour session, the mice felt less discomfort in their paws because the needles triggered the release of a natural painkiller, say the researchers.
it was probably a pinched/trapped nerve i had about that time that didn't fully go away.
blind quasi-religious belief that 'western' medicine is the only sensible option to treat medical ailments is both ignorant and dangerous.
the acupunture had no effect at all in either group if the needles were not  rotated.
i am no scientist and have no vested interest, i only went for the treatment in desparation because the 'conventional' drugs really didnt work.
nobody suggested that western medicine (you know, the real science is not good) is backward or bad, every single treatment should eventually be able to have a scientific explanation, but it doesn't mean that we should reject acupuncture totally.
ingenious and convenient, was it not ?"
its great that one simple facet of acupuncture has been understood
no to homeopathy placebo ms could be reversed by activating stem cells in brain, new study suggests 5 dec 2010 stem cells have been stimulated to regenerate the myelin sheath that is damaged in multiple sclerosis (ms)
western medicine has changed the world since the use of cowpox to treat small pox and jenner treating it in this way.
i think you will find it is called the scientific method.
30 may 2010 7:25pm most of the pseudo science alternative therapy cranks are also against animal testing but -acupuncture: tested by sticking needles into mice!
11:55pm for that reason they also run that co2 debate.
no wonder why his colleagues were so skeptical 31 may 2010 3:08am " the human frame, when once it has felt the influence of genuine cowpox, is never afterwards, at any period of its existence, assailable by smallpox.
western medicine, generally, looks to fix a specific problem.
bst article history close acupuncture may ease pain by triggering release of natural painkiller
placebo effect, i don't think so.
" - jenner poor jenner, he was like an acupuncturist who claims to cure smoking in all patients, seemingly untroubled that many of his patients carry on smoking after treatment.
from: £7.95 retuning the brain may cure tinnitus, finds study 19 jan 2011 research in rats suggests that stimulating a nerve in the brain could help stop persistent ringing in the ears 16 nov 2010 neural stem cells injected into the brain of a stroke patient in world first 30 sep 2004 miracle worker 18 may 2004 medicine man 22 feb 2010
chinese medicine has been around for 2,000 years.
all x-rays and massage and drugs to alleviate the pain hasn't worked.
but the thought of getting your liver, kidneys, stomach lining, damaged by painkillers such as aspirin, acetaminophen, ibuprofen etc, appeals to you.
i also consider your spiritual and psychological well-being to be vital to your health.
jill adair at handcross did some studies of traditional chinese acupuncture treatment of large draught animals and translated it into small animal terms.
i was really surprised at the arrogance of some of my colleagues.
31 may 2010 1:23am glenji
i would recommend anyone to try it, particularly for problems with hayfever, excema, thyroid, muscular or hormonal problems.
is there any science on dogs benefiting from a placebo effect?
the  more pain the mice were in, the faster they pulled away.
therefore, all those diseases are not eradicated, they are just suppressed - mutating and waiting for a future generation of humans to wipe out.
"the view that acupuncture does not have much benefit beyond the placebo effect has really hampered research into the technique," said maiken nedergaard, a neuroscientist at the university of rochester medical centre in new york, who led the study.
i also use prescribed inhalers.
to suggest that the needles can be ?stuck in anywhere? is breathtakingly ignorant!
guardian.co.uk, sunday 30 may 2010 18.00
and for that i accept and embrace a whole bunch of things that do not need to show their proof, since it's just about feeling better.
milkmen vend spurious milk, grocers spurious sugar, smashers spurious coin; but surely cows are not to be numbered with such malefactors as producers of spurious pox!
half of the mice lacked a gene that is needed to make adenosine receptors, which are dotted along major nerves.
although the study explains how acupuncture can alleviate pain, it sheds no  light on any of the other health benefits that some practitioners believe it  can achieve.
well, unless you're allergic to sugar pills or water.
it was also not covered by the national health plan.
eventually, jenner faced facts for he could no longer credibly claim otherwise:"cases of smallpox after inoculation are innumerable." william white: "
dec 2010 placebo effect works even if patients know they're getting a sham drug 24 aug 2005 scientists show how sugar pill eases pain 18 jan 2010 start running and watch your brain grow, say scientists your ip address will be logged 141 comments, displaying firstsort comments by oldest newest 30 may 2010 7:21pm does it?
gelion sadly yours is the mumbo jumbo.
it's not very scientific.
"because it has not been  understood completely, many people have remained sceptical."
in the majority of cases this is harmless.
the fact that the placebo effect is so powerful and that the human mind is hard wired to detect causality when none exists, means that these charlatans can continue fleecing people.
we can benefit from what has been learned over many thousands of years," nedergaard told the guardian.
further tests on the mice revealed that levels of adenosine surged 24-fold in the tissues around the acupuncture needles during and immediately after each session.
i remember some time ago a study showing that acupuncture was a placebo.
when jenner was under examination by a committee of the college of physicians in 1806, he was pressed hard for a definition of spurious cowpox, when he "owned up."
but then you could just as easily choose anywhere else, as the previous study proved (notwithstanding the mumbo-jumbo about qi and magic meridians connecting your middle toe with your tonsils or whatever).
it avoids me taking a pain killer almost every day, which over time will not be good for the rest of my body.
it just underlines how far western civilization has come in 400 years, and really how stuck non experimental and non-observational medicine remains.
seems a bit unnecessary when so many people are choosing to have acupuncture.
traditional practitioners claim acupuncture works by improving the flow of  "qi energy" along "meridians", butthe latest research,  published in nature neuroscience, points to a less mystical explanation.
without adenosine receptors, the chemical will have no effect on the mice when it is released in their bodies.
needles are not twisted on a regular basis.
choosing the knee to stop foot pain makes sense because the knee is between the source of the pain and its destination (the brain).
the drug, called deoxycoformycin, boosted the effects of acupuncture dramatically, more than  tripling how long the pain relief lasted.
"some people think any work in this area is junk research, but i think  that's wrong.
which seems rather unscientific to me.
if you are prescribed sugar pills, it is "sham", not "random".
the scientists gave each mouse a sore paw by injecting it with an inflammatory chemical.
he admitted that for some things western medicine would be more beneficial.
we can benefit from what has been learned over many thousands of years,"  nedergaard told the guardian.
(but just for reference, chinese traditional medicine is not just about needles and herbs, the chinese has developed open-skull surgery and anethestics thousands of years ago) hormonal issue (e.g. period problem)?
"i believe we've found the main mechanism by which acupuncture  relieves pain.
the most one feels, depending upon sensitivity, can be tingling... like electrical currents... but a lot of people feel nothing.
non of the drugs worked for her at all, and we have tried many of them.
"the view that acupuncture does not have much benefit beyond the  placebo effect has really hampered research into the technique," said maiken nedergaard, a neuroscientist at the university of rochester medical  centre in new york, who led the study.
most 'western' medicine, about 90% as of 2010 is based on plants.
now bend over while i arbitrarily poke your arse with needles.
31 may 2010 7:50am i'm not medically trained so i don't consider myself qualified to comment on the merits of acupuncture (unlike a lot of the posters above).
any way lets have a peer review of this before jumping to conclusions eh prince charles? 30 may 2010 7:30pm "one of the long-standing mysteries surrounding acupuncture is why the technique only seems to alleviate pain if needles are inserted at specific points.
tuberculosis for instance, was diminishing substantially before the introduction of vaccination.
"some people think any work in this area is junk research, but i think that's wrong.
herbal or acupuncture is a very good and non-invasive way of treatment.
31 may 2010 5:12am chinese medicine, for me, is mainly mumbo jumbo - sorry @thestrangeones.
31 may 2010 5:53am having been urged by a specialist who could not find any answer to a life threatening breathing problem to go and try anything that i thought might help, that he would provide any support needed in any alternative treatment that i undertook, and, most of all, to get back and tell him if anything worked, i eventually found my way to acupuncture.
31 may 2010 7:54am oh dear can we please have a sub editor with a science degree?
terrific if you have a broken bone or a burst appendix!
pilate and toga for the back, assorted rubber bands and balls for the wrist.
that has given it plenty of time to be either fine-tuned, or revealed as mumbo-jumbo.
in keeping with traditional practice,  the needles were rotated periodically throughout the half-hour session.
the words had been employed, not to describe any irregularity on the part of the cow, but certain irregularities in the action of cowpox on the part of the vaccinated : which was to say that when the vaccinated recovered creditably and did not catch smallpox, the cowpox was genuine; but when the sequences were otherwise, why then it was spurious!
painkillers are great for acute pain, but terrible for long term pain for me.
the therapy session involved inserting a fine needle into an acupuncture  point in the knee above the sore foot.
i took three weekly sessions for three years after a very nasty hiv primary infection.
western science is bankrupt and if it doesn't find its heart soon, we're all up the proverbial creek without the manoeuvring equipment.
well its not really pain, just a it annoying, i can live with it but not sure what it might develop to when i'm older.
one of the long-standing mysteries surrounding acupuncture is why the  technique only seems to alleviate pain if needles are inserted at specific  points.
writing in the journal, nedergaard's team describe how acupuncture reduced  pain by two thirds in normal mice, but had no effect on the discomfort of mice  that lacked the adenosine receptor gene.
these mishaps were at first denied?stoutly denied; and when denial was no longer possible, it was attempted to explain them away.
30 may 2010 9:34pm when i was a child my bones in the legs hurt sometimes.
science erradicated polio, small pox etc?
in a final experiment, nedergaard's team injected mice with a cancer drug  that made it harder to remove adenosine from their tissues.
the acupunture had no effect at all in either group if the needles were not rotated.
study after study after meta analysis have shown the acupuncture is no better, or worse, than a placebo.
just because science is unable to understand or quantify something does not mean its rubbish - physics could not explain how a bumble bee could fly until recently but that does not mean they never flew.
i have a bad back and damaged wrist, and the only thing that helps in the end is stretching and exercise.
this article was published onguardian.co.uk at 18.00 bst on sunday 30 may 2010.
which is the reason for tremendous advances in technology over the previous 400 years or so.
the thing was absurd on its face, and absurd it proved.
the discovery challenges a widely held view among scientists that any benefit patients feel after having acupuncture is purely due to theplacebo effect.
you can't know nothing about it and be able to make a judgement about it.
although i think my biggest problem with it is just simply the fact that it is all bollocks.
alternative western based medicine boosted my health to unexpectedly high levels, and subsequently, years later acupuncture and herbs bought me to a level of ?
everyone is different and acupuncture is more successful for some than others but there is no doubt that it works.
but last week i had toothache - western equipment and medicine helped to alleviate that and acupuncture probably cannot.
it's like defining all sports as "not rugby" and then saying that football is dangerous because mountaineering is, and they're both not rubgy, and therefore footballers may suffer injuries falling several thousand feet.
31 may 2010 4:11am would it not be better to work on a drug based on adenosine or cheaper versions of the cancer drug which boosts its effect.
"there is an attitude among some researchers that studying alternative  medicine is unfashionable," said nedergaard.
it changed it from being chronic to mildly irritating and has greatly improved my life quality.
except that this study http://www.docbug.com/blog/archives/000353.html showed that random acupuncture works as well as formal acupuncture as a pain killer- in other words it doesnt work any better if the needles are just stuck in anywhere so bang goes the adenosine receptor theory" your link doesn't say "random".
acupuncture has relieved my bronchial/asthma considerably and has given me a new lease of life.
my favorite experiment for the placebo is the double blind ulcer trial, where half the group is given 2 sugar tablets, and the other half are given 4.
and by 'stuck' do you men 'it's been curing ailments for thousands of years'.
in a final experiment, nedergaard's team injected mice with a cancer drug that made it harder to remove adenosine from their tissues.
uncritical rejection of "alternative" medicine is just as stupid as uncritical acceptance.
the results where that the groups taking more sugar tablets had a greator reduction in ulcer size, and over all the subjects there was a reduction in ulcer size.
30 may 2010 8:58pm yes, nishville, it's the method that re-appraises its views in the light of new evidence, as opposed to the "we don't need any of that silly peer-reviewed, evidence-based, double-blind testing nonsense".
i was incredibly dubious when my wife wanted to get our 12 year old arthritic golden retriever dog to get acupuncture, but she has undoubtedly had positive effects.
"so here is some interesting evidence, let's have a look" is surely the scientific response.
31 may 2010 1:19am the critics must really stop lumping all "complementary medicines" together.
acupuncture, and the more expansive chinese medicine kept me going, and built my life quality.
i had pins in the soft tissue between the thumb and index finger and when the pins were twiddled i felt such a surge of something through my body, much like an electric shock, that my whole body jolted up off the table.
how is chinese medicine 'non experimental' and non-observational'?
(glenji) which method precisely would that be?
i'd also make sure that multiple medications shouldn't be conflicting, so ensuring anyone administering you knows what else you're being treated for.
31 may 2010 3:26am kenbarlow and yet, after a 4000+ year history of epidemics, not a single person has been infected with smallpox since 1978.
forgive me, but i don't understand this closing sentence.
i get the picture, west is best, always bet on the west, esp.
it is also highly individual, so there is no right answer for everyone, just a right answer for an individual.
i would consider a lot of the truly "alternative" therapies in the second category, along with things like counseling, religion, team sports and recreation drug use.
nedergaard said that twisting the needles seems to cause enough damage to  make cells release adenosine.
one needle inserted into a specific place on that muscle sent what can only be described as an electric shock through it, and with exercise for a few days to prevent re-spasming, my knee is functioning normally.
acupuncture works on the meridians an energy network that will baffle and annoy the flat earth western medical fraternity - acupuncture and tcm have been practiced for thousands of years and they are massively popular in asia because they work.
in effect, the muscle had atrophied and had stopped working.
she can now get up the stairs, whereas before she could hardly stand.
no one is forcing you to try accupuncture, herbs, aromatherapy or whatever.
it proved to be effective on our old and much loved rheumaticy dog.
acupuncture is labour and time intensive.
the scientists gave each mouse a sore paw by injecting it with an  inflammatory chemical.
as part of social media week, pam nelmes spoke recently about the role of social media in the nhs.
the vaccinated caught smallpox; they fell sick after the operation; they were afflicted with eruptions and swellings; they died.
taking some form of drug, be it synthesized or naturally occurring, or some form of physical therapy seems to me to be able to affect my physiological state.
thanks to the progressives you rather naively praise.
whoever heard of spurious disease ?
writing in the journal, nedergaard's team describe how acupuncture reduced pain by two thirds in normal mice, but had no effect on the discomfort of mice that lacked the adenosine receptor gene.
all of the three acupuncturists that i have used have been quick to refer a patient to a western trained doctor for issues that they can better address.
so there's a place for all types of medicine in this world, we don't just have to rely on a prescription sheet with unreadable writing on it.
nedergaard believes that most of these points are along major nerve tracks, and as such are parts of the body that have plenty of adenosine receptors."....except that this study http://www.docbug.com/blog/archives/000353.html showed that random acupuncture works as well as formal acupuncture as a pain killer- in other wordsit doesnt work any better if the needles are just stuck in anywhere so bang goes the adenosine receptor theory 30 may 2010 7:44pm
for 6 years i have not had much of a feeling in my right small finger, it would go numb sometimes, and down my right side lower arm too.
you can also lump the placebo effect in here too, since you can put that down somewhat to wanting to be better.
poor fuc**rs.. comments on this page are now closed.
we face one of the greatest mass extinctions in history..
31 may 2010 7:32am "yes, nishville, it's the method that re-appraises its views in the light of new evidence, as opposed to the "we don't need any of that silly peer-reviewed, evidence-based, double-blind testing nonsense".'
molecules of such complexity and unimaginable structure, in many cases, that they cannot be conjured by the human mind.
the needles stimulated cells to produce adenosine, an anti-inflammatory and painkilling chemical, that was effective for up to an hour after the therapy was over.
to measure how effective the acupuncture was, the researchers recorded how  quickly each mouse pulled its sore paw away from a small bristly brush.
often at great cost to their finances and their health.
last 24 hours last 24 hours zeitgeist is an experiment in showing trending news, topics and articles from the guardian.
(i don't want to be a guinea pig for that one though) 30 may 2010 8:11pm 'western' medicine is not the pinnacle as many sceptics believe.
its the same process that you prefer, civilisation, that is destroying these natural cures.
he knew nothing of spurious cowpox.
he has written extensively on how powerful the placebo effect is.
the chemical is then picked up by adenosine  receptors on nearby nerves, which react by damping down pain.
although i think my biggest problem with it is just simply the fact that it is all bollocks....
chinese medicine, for me, is mainly mumbo jumbo - sorry @thestrangeones.
of course sticking pins in the body is going to have an effect!
years of living an hour by hour essence had left residual scars, and a fragile health.
£8.99 search the guardian bookshopsearch steepletone memphis music centre play your cherished vinyl, tapes and cds or transfer them to digital format for just £149.95.
acupuncture was developed in china around 4,000 years ago.
or do you think that the placebo effect is something magic and so it cannot have a mechanism, like, oh let me think: exactly this.
acupuncture could be damping down pain through a natural painkiller called  adenosine.
31 may 2010 5:10am i have a sense that a lot of the naysayers have never had acupuncture.
this was 20 years ago.
bst on tuesday 1 june 2010.
31 may 2010 3:52am nice to see an article that displays an almost open mind to a medical tradition that is outside the nhs.
and in humans, the better-designed a clinical trial of acupuncture is, the weaker the effect.
the thought of some 'trained professional' jabbing needles into my back has never really appealed to me.
find out more inour blog post.
i subscribe to orthodox medicines but also to complementary techniques.
31 may 2010 5:46am it would be interesting to know how many of those opposed to acupuncture have ever experienced the process?
even if it can't (yet) be explained, if this study does what it says, there is some evidence and it's early days.
there is a million dollar prize available to anyone who can prove any of it.
31 may 2010 1:01am it makes me laugh that so many of you folk who rubbish chinese medicine and other mumbo jumbo feel so hurt and offended on behalf of those who have used these things.
she explains what online platforms mean for the future of nursing a new policy forum launched by the nhs confederation will create a new voice for the nhs and put dignity in care for older people higher up the agenda, saysmike farrar come to the guardian's open weekend in london on 24 march and have matthew taylor take you through the tricky questions neuroscience is posing for the criminal justice system.
you can have your healing crystal massages and i'll take all of the above.
going for a gentle walk for half an hour when i'm down cheers me up more than any anti-depressant.
this study will only convince people who think the placebo effect is small or insignificant, it isn't.
adenosine is a very potent anti-inflammatory compound and most chronic pain is caused by inflammation," nedergaard said.
judging by the waiting list to get in to see this particular vet, my dog isn't the only one to see a real and tangible benefit.
it is a factual statement that they kept me alive for some years.
(wishfort) western science doesn't reapprise anything which isn't in its own framework, wishfort.
31 may 2010 2:05am painkillers are just fine if you want to strengthen the glowing health of the pharmaceutical industry.
maybe this also released some adenosine.
the more pain the mice were in, the faster they pulled away.
only 2nd in amazement after being able to see properly with no glasses after laser eye surgery.
the needles stimulated cells to produce adenosine, an  anti-inflammatory and painkilling chemical, that was effective for up to an  hour after the therapy was over.
western medical science never works on the causes and prevention, it concentrates itself exclusively on symptoms.
peer review etc is great but western medicine has a rough history of horrors from thalidomide to shock treatment - our medical approach is totally different and has caused massive amounts of harm - scientific thought 100 years ago seems horrific and ridiculous now where as chinese medicine has a much longer and deeper history and does not use such invasive techniques - it is also based on the study of living healthy humans with the goal being to maintain that healthy state rather than being based on the study of cadavers and focused on the already sick.
31 may 2010 7:58am "mice with sore paws" - i can just imagine the satanic construction of that particular set up.
what people are sceptical of is that you have to stick them in your toes to cure a headache, or any other combination of unrelated parts of the body.
30 may 2010 10:46pm " does it?
i didnt believe it would work, i didn't believe in all this chinese mumbo jumbo my friends were telling me here in asia with praying at temples and worshipping the dead and needles in certain areas of my neck and back - i always believed x-rays and medicine or surgery would get rid off anything wrong with me.....did it hell.
"there is an attitude among some researchers that studying alternative medicine is unfashionable," said nedergaard.
of course, we also live in a society that is devastating habitat, the same habitat that produced most of our medicine, and quite likely (from modern research) has many possible cures for cancer (for example).
to measure how effective the acupuncture was, the researchers recorded how quickly each mouse pulled its sore paw away from a small bristly brush.
traditional practitioners claim acupuncture works by improving the flow of "qi energy" along "meridians", butthe latest research, published in nature neuroscience, points to a less mystical explanation.
acupunture is a safe and very effective way to treat many problems, especially those to do with muscular function.
the chemical is then picked up by adenosine receptors on nearby nerves, which react by damping down pain.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/james_randi_educational_foundation funnily enough, no one has claimed the money.
ps i don't think the 'pro-complementary medicine crowd" necessarily called for experiments on animals.
this does not mean acupuncture 'works' better than placebo and the study doesn't show this.
western medicine (surgery) works magic.
30 may 2010 11:47pm i love it when the guardian prints articles like this - just to see the scientific community getting hot under the collar.
please, do stop being ignorant and narrow-minded, a medical system that has been the sole healing system in practice for billions of people for thousands of years just could not possibly be total rubbish.
i can give you an example of the real benefits acupuncture can have.
also, i guess heart issues appeal to you.
the cowpox used could not have been genuine cowpox, but spurious; and for awhile spurious cowpox did yeoman's service in the way of apology; but by-and-by the excuse began to work more harm than good.
that is how powerful your own systems can be.
12:24am i had acupuncture for back pain.
whilst it only cured the back pain temporarily a side effect was that it completely cured the rsi in my forearms, which i hadn't even told the practitioner about.
and i was a student fortunately my physician (a consultant oncologist) was a kind and generous man and waived most of his fees.
10:37pm glenji, why does it have to be an either/or situation ?
it says ":sham" points.
31 may 2010 4:05am jane4444 - of course you won't get side effects from homeopathy.
photograph: jon feingersh/getty images scientists have performed acupuncture on mice with sore paws to pinpoint  how the ancient chinese medical practice might alleviate pain in humans.
choosing the knee to stop pain in a finger only makes sense if the painkilling effect is spread throughout the body - which it could be.
what it doesn't do is show that any of the numerous claims about acupuncture curing disease or other conditions (except as a placebo) has any basis in fact.
30 may 2010 10:19pm acupuncture and chinese herbs really helped improve my chronic hayfever after 30+ of suffering from it.
new and stronger diseases, radioactive waste, climate changes, wmd ,microwave polution, toxic oceans - the facade of the brave new world of western science starts to crumble and what appears behind it is death, poverty and large corporations responsible to nobody.
how can there be spurious pox ?
10:56pm samphire76 "most of the pseudo science alternative therapy cranks are also against animal testing but - acupuncture: tested by sticking needles into mice!
chi, karma, ghosts, ghoulies, crystal energy, water memory, chakra alignment and all the rest of it.
although the study explains how acupuncture can alleviate pain, it sheds no light on any of the other health benefits that some practitioners believe it can achieve.
talking of which, i can recommend yoga for carpal tunnel syndrome: http://jama.ama-assn.org/cgi/content/abstract/280/18/1601 31 may 2010 7:51am sorry - an extremely high-ranking member of the medical establishment, that is.
many newspapers said it showed acupuncture performing better than medical treatment: in fact it was 8 million times more interesting than that related 28 apr 2010 acupuncture does not relieve childbirth pain, says study 22
but this opens the possibility that people will abandon genuinely efficacious, double blind tested courses of treatment for more serious ailments in favour of quack treatments.
therefore, the target diseases/physical problems for both system of treatment are different, they could overlap at times, but do not contradict, that's why acupuncture is classified as alternative/complementary treatment, not 'anti-western medicine treatment".
the discovery challenges a widely held view among scientists that any  benefit patients feel after having acupuncture is purely due to theplacebo  effect.
30 may 2010 10:59pm i guess it was ötzi the iceman who had some strange tattoos, and it is thought these were made for health-reason - to fight aches.
a very strange experience.
i had severe psoriasis and after years of steroid creams which never helped i was able to cure it through a combination of herbal medicine and acupuncture both based on ancient prescriptions rather than topically suppressing the herbs acted on the cause and improved my digestion and general health and left me glowing with health and for the first time clear skin.
it is an activity that relies on values measurable by its own standards which works magically in short term, but is disasterous in long one, as it is painfully obvious these days.
if they had they would know that the 'needle' used is not really a needle, but a thread of steel, so fine that it is absolutely painless when inserted.
it takes all sorts, but it really boils down to having some human contact, and a belief in something greater than oneself, so it's all ok.
if someone is still looking for a treatment.
without adenosine receptors, the  chemical will have no effect on the mice when it is released in their bodies.
" that is extremely weak.
so the question is: was it the vaccination or was it disappearing naturally... or was it a bit of both?
what i found encouraging was that the chinese doctor was not only knowledgeable in his own field but was also trained in 'western medicine'.
i am watching a program right now on c4 about the 5 great british scientists of the c17 - newton, hooke, wren etc - great stuff.
it sullies our intellectual discourse to give the time of day to any of these ideas.
eventually, by chance we discovered the cause, and highly sophisticated western medicine corrected the problem.
please, can anyone associated with stories like this be made to read all his columns?
thumbs up for the western medicine back pain?
perhaps the "we say 'oops it's not like that after all' every fifty years" method?
nedergaard believes that most of these points are along major nerve  tracks, and as such are parts of the body that have plenty of adenosine  receptors.
sometimes i wonder if the acupuncture treament, which i took instead of antiretroviral treatment that in the early 90's was a living hell, didn't prepare the terrain for a smooth antiretroviral treatment in the following years.
scientific explanation is important, but discarding a method which clearly worked (on a large scale) just because no scientific explanation is yet found, you would be missing out a lot.
in keeping with traditional practice, the needles were rotated periodically throughout the half-hour session.
but i do know a highly qualified doctor and extremely medical establishment who is trained in, and practices acupuncture.
http://www.newscientist.com/gallery/dn17070-otzi-ice-man/5
it hurts for a while, then it hurts a bit less as whatever natural painkilling system kicks in.
your ip address will be logged more news acupuncture does not relieve childbirth pain, says study research suggests results from complementary therapy during labour may be placebo effect acupuncture may harm chances of ivf pregnancy, say researchers women who have acupuncture alongside ivf treatment could harm their chances of becoming pregnant, researchers say.
i am a distance runner and my body makes endorphins at the drop of a hat.
traditional medicine looks at, and works to balance (treat) the total person.
my knee was not bending in the correct manner due to my m. vastus medialis (the muscle of the inner thigh) being inoperable due to a spasm previously.
personally i don't consider chinese medicine especially "alternative".
tried acupuncture for one session and bingo - i could feel my little finger again!!
it was last modified at17.07
31 may 2010 5:22am caress of steel, one of the interesting things about diseases is how they appear in cycles, or waves.
30 may 2010 10:01pm and really how stuck non experimental and non-observational medicine remains.
i'll take a painkiller thanks.
as is the suggestion that acupuncture is a ?painkiller?!
31 may 2010 6:16am western banking system, western democracy, western family values, western medicine etc etc.....
last 24 hours follow all the top science stories of the day on twitter bengoldacre: rt @rhdr: news coming through: dungeness light railway restaurant has been given 5* hygiene rating (top level) by shepway council please rtabout 30 minutes ago grrlscientist: mystery bird: indigo macaw, anodorhynchus leari@grrlscientist http://t.co/ocjjx6h7 origin of this parrot was a mystery for more than 100yrsabout 34 minutes ago mocost: new neuroscience blog by @morethanrob http://t.co/76zbhgk7about 35 minutes ago by rupert sheldrake £19.99 by hugh aldersey-williams £9.99 by brian cox £8.99 £20.00 by richard dawkins
the therapy session involved inserting a fine needle into an acupuncture point in the knee above the sore foot.
even 'fake' acupuncture reduces the severity of headaches and migraines research shows an improvement in headache symptoms even when needles are placed incorrectly pinning down a remedy for backache ben goldacre: this week, a new study was published on acupuncture.
further tests on  the mice revealed that levels of adenosine surged 24-fold in the tissues around  the acupuncture needles during and immediately after each session.
one of the major issues with western medicine is that is totally profit driven - the ideal product for a drug company is one which will suppress symptoms while you use the product only to have them come back in full once you stop this creates a life long customer - a product that actually solved the problem would be bad as it would limit the potential sales.
i look forward to a time when science can start to measure subtle energies in the body and our understanding of the complexity of humanity gets much deeper than its current simplistic and shallow view.
i would rather have a none invasive technique solve the problem than take a drug which invades the whole body, e.g. the acupuncture i have about every 12 months eliminates the back pain (i have 3 lower back ruptured disks), or i can take 400 mg of ibuprofen every day for the same effect.
acupuncture is proven to be effective the central theme of chinese medicine is to try to find a natural way of healing disease, like researching the various healing potentials of herbs and even daily fruit and vegetables, whereas western medicine is taking a completely different approach which aims to acheive instant result through invasive or synthetic method.
homeopathy may be nonsense but that doesn't mean that every non-western treatment is.
anyone reading this story might like this piece from science blogger ed yong, which provides a useful critical reading of the research (and fair bit of context): http://blogs.discovermagazine.com/notrocketscience/2010/05/30/a-biological-basis-for-acupuncture-or-more-evidence-for-a-placebo-effect/ 30 may 2010 7:48pm would it not be better to work on a drug based on adenosine or cheaper versions of the cancer drug which boosts its effect... better still a drug which increases natural release.
after a half-hour session, the mice felt less discomfort in their paws  because the needles triggered the release of a natural painkiller, say the  researchers.
it's one thing to reject something when you actually know what you are talking about but quite another to reject it out of prejudice and ignorance.
and when we get to the proper placebo-controlled double-blinded trials, there's zero effect above placebo.
if pro-science people throw out scientific principles and can't be bothered to know about what they are talking about, then the whole thing is a stupid childish argument.
if they are self treating hayfever then no one is going to get hurt.
adenosine is a very potent anti-inflammatory compound and most  chronic pain is caused by inflammation," nedergaard said.
10:48pm proof of the effectivness of acupuncture on animals will not come as any surprise to clients of the several vets who have added acupuncture to their range of treatments.
chinese medicine has nothing whatsoever to do with homeopathy.
including medical advances such as numerous vaccines, the elimination of smallpox, women being much less likely to die in childbirth, organ donation, blood transfusion, anti-biotics etc.
i couldn't help myself but to bang with my fist against the leg.
that'll be £250 please!"
the drug, called deoxycoformycin, boosted the effects of acupuncture dramatically, more than tripling how long the pain relief lasted.
the world is still full with so many amazing things that we cannot comprehend and its worthwhile being open minded - open minded people are the ones who have created progress on earth and those who blindly adhere to orthodox opinions are the ones who killed galileo etc science is so important and valid but its worth remembering that todays scientific theories often seem ridiculous in 100 years time.
these are all side effects that i've suffered from western medicines.
some of the comments here seem to say 'we know acupuncture doesn't work because we are sure homeopathay doesn't work'.
but you just can't have it both ways.
in my case the acupuncture was an added 'boost' to the herbs which, over time, did the trick.
are you suggesting that it's a coincidence and not due to vaccination?
science's credentials are being destroyed by this combination of "i don't believe it because i haven't read it because it sounds bonkers, therefore it's rubbish".
the procedure involves inserting fine needles at specific points around the body and then heating, twisting or even electrifying them.
half of the mice lacked a gene that is needed to make  adenosine receptors, which are dotted along major nerves.
"because it has not been understood completely, many people have remained sceptical."
that journey began nigh on 40 years ago.
30 may 2010 9:30pm i remain hugely skeptical.
nedergaard believes that most of these points are along major nerve tracks, and as such are parts of the body that have plenty of adenosine receptors.
i am a full believer in good science, but when it comes to some of the more 'out there' things that could be tested, it seems a lot of scientists would rather shout 'impossible' than get on and actually do any real science on the matter.
the stated trial is supposed to be about dosage over time and delivery method, hence the testers believe they are testing active drugs.
i didn't have any success with homeopathy but it didn't bring me out in a rash, make me vomit, erode my stomach lining, crumble my bones, give me hot flushes, impair my memory, make my heart race, give me nightmares or make me halluninate.
lemming, 31 may 2010 5:21am even as an extreme sceptic, i wasn't aware that many scientists considered acupuncture to have no physiological effect.
between two identical operations i got myself fit and needed no post op analgesics and took nothing for pain for 2 weeks post op.
as for my personal experiences, caring about what i eat, and doing something that moves me around tend to sort out most of my ills.
interesting stuff... but a peer review is much needed will trepanning give similar results ? ...
it is almost as though ben goldacre never existed.
30 may 2010 8:58pm i think you will find it is called the scientific method.
the procedure  involves inserting fine needles at specific points around the body and then  heating, twisting or even electrifying them.
31 may 2010 12:01am agathe, my big problem with complimentary medicine is that it spouts a load of rubbish and a lot of very vulnerable people fall for it.
today, i take antiretroviral drugs to excellent results.
nedergaard said that twisting the needles seems to cause enough damage to make cells release adenosine.
an holistic approach is far more sensible and offers freedom to choose the right treatment for a certain problem.
31 may 2010 1:34am this isn't about 'western medicine' v 'eastern medicine', but about 'medicine' v 'crap that doesn't work'.
mishaps were so numerous that people became afraid of this omnipresent spurious cowpox, and to ask what it was, and how it could be avoided.
why get so hot under the collar?
31 may 2010 12:00am agathe, my big problem with complimentary medicine is that it spouts a load of rubbish and a lot of very vulnerable people fall for it.
10:55pm the question is not so much whether acupuncture, homeopathy, magnetotherapy, mesmer's electric bucket achieve their means thru placebo or by an actual physiological effect... but more: will health insurance providers accept their rationale as sufficiently legitimate to cover their costs.
turn autoplay off turn autoplay on please activate cookies in order to turn autoplay off study in mice suggests that acupuncture relieves pain not just through the placebo effect but also by stimulating cells to pump out the body's own painkiller scientists have performed acupuncture on mice with sore paws to pinpoint how the ancient chinese medical practice might alleviate pain in humans.
if someone wants to spend their own money buying sugar pills in the mistaken belief that homeopathy works then fine.
"i believe we've found the main mechanism by which acupuncture relieves pain.
nothing could be further from the thruth.
30 may 2010 8:26pm blind quasi-religious belief that 'western' medicine is the only sensible option to treat medical ailments is both ignorant and dangerous.
at least, it distracted my attention from the original pain.
come to the guardian's open weekend in london on 24 march and have matthew taylor take you through the tricky questions neuroscience is posing for the criminal justice system.