tea has its origin in the coastal island city of xiamen, known as egret island, because of the many egrets that used to ride there; the river is called egret river, inspiring the brand name for this product.
the meridians connect with the surface of the body at locations called acupuncture points.
such claims are now subject to regulation in most countries, and have grown correspondingly more vague, to stay within these regulations.
acupuncture reduces muscle spasms, decreases inflammation, activates blood circulation, stimulates immune function, and accelerates healing.
dangers because of their concentrated nature, eo’s generally should not be applied directly to the skin in their undiluted or "neat" form.
instead, essential oils should be blended with a vegetable carrier oil (also referred to as a base or "fixed" oil) before being applied.
water is not recommended as oil will not usually dissolve in water-although minimal oil dilution in water can be attained at extremely low concentrations of oil, depending on the viscosity of the oil.
it has thus been found that alcohols such as methanol and ethanol (primarily 100% concentrations), or organic solvents such as acetone, are the best diluents.
distillation today, most common essential oils, such as lavender, peppermint, and eucalyptus, are distilled.
subsequent processing with liquid carbon dioxide, achieved in the same extractor by merely lowering the extraction temperature, will separate the waxes from the essential oils.
the recommended dosage for bojenmi tea is 3-6 grams each time (one tea bag contains 3 grams),
the meridians connect with the surface of the body at locations called  acupuncture points.
but it’s not  like a needle like a shot," she said.
"he’s very knowledgeable and he’s a great  listener and he’s fun.
essential oils are used in perfumery, aromatherapy, cosmetics, incense, for flavoring food and drink, and âto a lesser extent- in health care, and household cleaning products.
struck, who suffered from fibromyalgia for 15 years, describes  acupuncture therapy as a "life blessing.
to be taken three times daily, thus 9-18 grams of tea leaves carrying the  herbal extracts is taken in one day (3-6 tae bags).
for example, many essential oils have antiseptic properties, though some are stronger than others.3
the water recondensed from the distillation process is referred to as a hydrosol, hydrolat, herbal distillate or plant water essence, which may be sold as another fragrant product.
the medical use of vegetable oils has a long and distinguished history.
" "i lived in pain for all those years and now i live without pain," said struck, who admits she was skeptical of the practice at first and tried it as a last resort.
each meridian corresponds to a particular physiological system or organ.
crataegus, lisma, and cassia reduce blood lipids.
it is produced under the egret river brand of the xiamen export corporation (xmeheco) in beautiful xiamen, an island of fujian province.
acupuncture reduces muscle  spasms, decreases inflammation, activates blood circulation, stimulates immune  function, and accelerates healing.
it may also be referred to as "oil of" the raw plant material from which it was extracted, such as oil of clove.
during the ming dynasty, it came to be called xiamen, meaning that it was a gate (men) to the grand mansion (xia) of the mainland.
rodowca said patients, who  range in age from infants to the elderly, can benefit from the therapy  sessions, which usually last about an hour.
berries: allspice, juniper seeds: almond, anise, celery, cumin, nutmeg oil bark: cassia, cinnamon wood: camphor, cedar, rosewood, sandalwood rhizome:
by stimulating the points with needles, sensory nerves are  triggered and blockages in energy flow can be released.
raw materials essential oils are derived from various parts of plants.
rodowca said that since the needles are small and unlike hypodermic needles, the treatments are painless.
the combination includes  the four primary therapeutic actions relied upon by chinese doctors to promote  weight loss and reduce blood lipids.
bojenmi tea treats the same conditions as  baohe wan.
" rodowca said acupuncture also is considered a preventive form of medicine, giving this analogy: "a western doctor is like the mechanic that repairs or replaces and an acupuncturist is like a gardener where everything is interrelated.
@ 4:13 pm rodowca brings eastern science to greenville area - acupuncture one uses traditional chinese practice
"it feels like a mosquito bite and there are some places where you don’t feel it at all," he said adding that for "needlephobic" patients an electrical shock can be used instead.
the combination includes the four primary therapeutic actions relied upon by chinese doctors to promote weight loss and reduce blood lipids.
the combination of malt, shen-chu, crataegus and  raphanus was shown, in a clinical trial, to alleviate symptoms of abdominal  distention, intestinal gurgling, eructation, acid regurgitation and intestinal  cramping in patients with sluggish bowel function.
in some cases, chinese herbal supplements, chinese massage and heat therapy can accompany a patient’s treatment.
" labels: acupuncture, alternative medicine acupuncture herbal, chinese, healing, herbal, history chinese herbal medicine, history of acupuncture, massage, medical, needles, oriental, pain, rodowca, supplement posted by james rodowca, msom, l.ac. @ 1:46 pm - return to acupuncture one previous posts - a systematic review of the clinical effectiveness ... - neck pain patients prefer acupuncture to injection... - acupuncture may help menstrual pain - older americans begin to embrace nontraditional me... - acupuncture in patients with dysmenorrhea: a rando... - doctors, hospital more accepting of acupuncture - acupuncture could help with hearing - pre-valentine's day blood drive!
@ 4:13 pm rodowca brings eastern science to greenville area - acupuncture one uses  traditional chinese practice
production quantities estimates of total production of essential oils are difficult to obtain.
article retrieved from www.itmonline.org/jintu see our selection of teas labels: acupuncture for weight loss, bojenmi, bojenmi tea, chinese, health, herbs, tea, viable herbal solutions, xiamen posted by james rodowca, msom, l.ac.
there is some concern about pesticide residues in eo’s, particularly those used therapeutically.
the traditional  formula was indicated for treating stagnant food, eructation, diarrhea, and  thick coating on the tongue, indicating the phlegm excess resulting from food  stagnation related to overeating.
solvents essential oils are usually lipophilic compounds.
we look at the body as a whole and we try to prevent imbalances.
the combination of malt, shen-chu, crataegus and raphanus was shown, in a clinical trial, to alleviate symptoms of abdominal distention, intestinal gurgling, eructation, acid regurgitation and intestinal cramping in patients with sluggish bowel function.
crataegus, lisma, and  cassia reduce blood lipids.
the internal use of essential oils should be fully avoided during pregnancy without consulting with a licensed professional, as some can be abortifacients in dose 0.5-10 ml.
according to the package  information, if no dietary changes are made, one can still lose weight, though  it is best to have a low calorie diet for continued weight loss.
some, like orange oil, are derived from any of several parts of the plant.
owners must ensure that their pets do not come into contact with potentially harmful essential oils.
struck, who suffered from fibromyalgia for 15 years, describes acupuncture therapy as a "life blessing.
it contains a small amount of mild laxatives, so that it can treat constipation, but it will still alleviate diarrhea that occurs from overeating and impaired digestive functions.
most oils are distilled in a single process.
as one who performs acupuncture therapy, james rodowca needs a steady hand.
malt, (barley sprout), shen-chu (fermented wheat with artemisia herb), crataegus (hawthorn fruit), raphanus (radish seed), citrus peel, and pogostemon (patchouli herb) invigorate the digestion of foods in the stomach; hoelen mushroom, cassia (red bean), alisma (water plantain rhizome), citrus, and pogostemon remove excess fluid; cassia (senna seed) and pharbitis (morning glory seed) provide a laxative effect.
baojenmi tea is a derivative of the traditional formula baohe wan (maintain harmony pill) a prescription of zhu danxi, originally recorded in danxi xinfa (the fundamental methods of zhu danxi; 1481 a.d.)
"circle of life" pendant archives - february 2007 - march 2007 - april 2007 - may 2007 - june 2007 - july 2007 - august 2007 - september 2007 - october 2007 - november 2007 - december 2007 - january 2008 - february 2008 - march 2008 - april 2008 - may 2008 - current posts subscribe to posts [atom]
"many times people can  cut out their medications.
essential oils are naturally high in volatile organic compounds (vocs).
an extract of other herbs is sprayed onto the tea leaf to make the finished beverage product, which is prepared by steeping in boiled water for 3-4 minutes.
" shiocton resident carol struck, who  has been visiting acupuncture one for a year-and-a-half, is one of  rodowca’s clients who has been able to discontinue taking her medications.
industrial users of essential oils should consult the material safety data sheet (msds) to determine the hazards and handling requirements of particular oils.
the vapors flow through a coil where they condense back to liquid, which is then collected in the receiving vessel.
- natural medicine: acupuncture pins down season all... - win the diamond and ruby
this formula, available also as a patent  remedy, contains the following ingredients in common with baojenmi tea:  crataegus, shen-chu, raphanus, citrus, hoelen, and malt.
" "i lived in  pain for all those years and now i live without pain," said struck, who  admits she was skeptical of the practice at first and tried it as a last resort.
"i didn’t like the idea of the needles
steam-distilled rose oil is known as "rose otto" while the solvent extracted product is known as "rose absolute".
expression most citrus peel oils are usually expresses mechanically, or cold-pressed.
due to the large quantities of oil in citrus peel and the relatively low cost to grow and harvest the raw materials, citrus-fruit oils are cheaper than most other essential oils.
essential oil is also known as volatile oil and ethereal oil.
2 oils tonnes sweet orange 12,000 mentha arvensis 4,800 peppermint 3,200 cedarwood 2,600 lemon 2,300 eucalyptus globules 2,070 litsea cubeba 2,000 clove (leaf) 2,000 spearmint 1,300 essential oil in use in aromatherapy aromatherapy is a form of herbal medicine, in which healing effects are ascribed to the aromatic compounds in essential oils and other plant extracts.
@ 4:24 pm bojenmi chinese tea bojenmi tea (baojianmei jianfei, cha; literally, maintain health and nice appearance, reduce fleshiness tea) is a popular product of china that has been used mainly for weight loss for the past twenty years.
the supercritical carbon dioxide will extract both the waxes and the essential oils that make up the concrete.
"it’s actually a very logical system of health, but it’s  different than western medicine."
it contains a small amount of mild laxatives, so that it can treat  constipation, but it will still alleviate diarrhea that occurs from overeating  and impaired digestive functions.
popular hydrosols are rose water, lavender water, lemon balm, clary sage, and orange blossom water.
some very common eo’s such as eucalyptus are extremely toxic internally.
when the extraction is complete, the pressure is reduced to ambient and the carbon dioxide reverts back to a gas, leaving no residue.
bojenmi tea  has a mild taste, something like ordinary black tea, with a slight added  spicy-bitter taste.
today’s xiamen, with a population of over one million, is a famous scenic and historic spot, and has become well-known as commercial center.
article retrieved from www.itmonline.org/jintu see our selection of teas labels: acupuncture for weight loss, bojenmi, bojenmi tea, chinese, health,  herbs, tea, viable herbal solutions, xiamen posted by james rodowca, msom, l.ac.
"it feels like a mosquito bite and there are some places where you  don’t feel it at all," he said adding that for  "needlephobic" patients an electrical shock can be used instead.
the recommended  dosage for bojenmi tea is 3-6 grams each time (one tea bag contains 3 grams),
examples of common carrier oils would be olive, hazelnut, grapeseed, etc.
baojenmi tea  is a derivative of the traditional formula baohe wan (maintain harmony pill) a  prescription of zhu danxi, originally recorded in danxi xinfa (the fundamental  methods of zhu danxi; 1481 a.d.)
a story about the value of ordinary  green tea in removing fat was told this way: “in the chinese restaurants,  to clean up the spilled greasy food left after a meal, some of the remaining  tea is poured onto the table top and then the grease dissolves and is easily  cleaned up.”
lemon or sweet orange oils that are obtained as by-products of the commercial citrus industry are even cheaper.
struck said she began  seeing results after a few sessions and now goes to rodowca every three or four  weeks.
common ratio of essential oil disbursed in a carrier oil is 0.5-3% (most less than 10%) and depends on its purpose.
but it’s not like a needle like a shot," she said.
struck said she began seeing results after a few sessions and now goes to rodowca every three or four weeks.
this lower temperature process prevents the decomposition and denaturing of compounds and provides for a superior product.
there were countless ships and boats sailing in and out of the port there.
it doesn’t just leave when you  walk out of the office," she said, adding that she’s recommended  rodowca to others.
medical properties claimed by those who sell medicinal oils vary from skin treatments to remedies for cancer, and are often based on historical use of these oils for these purposes.
acupuncture improves the flow of qi (chee), or life-force, in the body.
prior to the discovery of distillation, essential oils (eo) were extracted by pressing.
other extraction processes to obtain aromatic plant compounds include expression, or solvent extraction.
one exception is ylang-ylang (cananga odorata), which takes 22 hours to complete through a fractional distillation.
"it (acupuncture) provides substantial relief," rodowca said.
during the ming dynasty, it came to be called xiamen, meaning that it  was a gate (men) to the grand mansion (xia) of the mainland.
toxicology ld50 of most eo or their main components are 0.5-10 g/kg (orally or skin test).
this method has many benefits, including avoiding petrochemical residues in the product.
the other ingredients are: - crataegus (shanza) - malt (maiya) - pharbitis (qianniuzi) - pogostemon (huoxiang) - hoelen (fuling) - citrus (chenpi) - alisma (zexie) - cassia (juemingzi) - phaseolus (chixiaodou) - shen-chu (shenqu) - raphanus (laifuzi) these herbs are traditionally used to enhance digestion, remove food stagnation, resolve accumulations pf phlegm and moisture, and provide a slight laxative action.
shen-chu (shenqu) raphanus (laifuzi) these herbs are traditionally used  to enhance digestion, remove food stagnation, resolve accumulations pf phlegm  and moisture, and provide a slight laxative action.
chinese physicians point out also that alisma counteracts  the “greasy quality” of herbs; because of this property, it was  thought to reduce excess grease (fat) in the body, which has since been found  to be true, based on laboratory and clinical evaluations.
" rodowca said acupuncture also is considered a preventive form of medicine,  giving this analogy: "a western doctor is like the mechanic that  repairs or replaces and an acupuncturist is like a gardener where everything is  interrelated.
xiamen is also known as the garden of the sea and the green island, because of its luxuriant plant life.
" shiocton resident carol struck, who has been visiting acupuncture one for a year-and-a-half, is one of rodowca’s clients who has been able to discontinue taking her medications.
since 1980, when xiamen  was opened as a special economic zone, skyscrapers and new factories sprung up,  including production and export of bojenmi tea, which won an award in france in  1986.
acupuncture is a traditional chinese  practice that uses needles to reduce pain caused by numerous health conditions.
each meridian corresponds to a particular physiological system or  organ.
see our selection of essential oils labels: essential oil purchase, essential oils online, therapeutic essential oils, white sage essential oil posted by james rodowca, msom, l.ac.
rodowca, a licensed acupuncturist, opened  acupuncture one, llc in 2003 after receiving his master of science in oriental  medicine degree from the midwest college of oriental medicine and serving his  internship with a chinese doctor.
by stimulating the points with needles, sensory nerves are triggered and blockages in energy flow can be released.
malt, (barley sprout), shen-chu (fermented  wheat with artemisia herb), crataegus (hawthorn fruit), raphanus (radish seed),  citrus peel, and pogostemon (patchouli herb) invigorate the digestion of foods  in the stomach; hoelen mushroom, cassia (red bean), alisma (water plantain  rhizome), citrus, and pogostemon remove excess fluid; cassia (senna seed) and  pharbitis (morning glory seed) provide a laxative effect.
acupuncture is a traditional chinese practice that uses needles to reduce pain caused by numerous health conditions.
the claims are supported in some studies and unconfirmed in others.
pharmacopoeia standards for medicinal oils should be heeded.
to be taken three times daily, thus 9-18 grams of tea leaves carrying the herbal extracts is taken in one day (3-6 tae bags).
" labels: acupuncture, alternative medicine acupuncture herbal, chinese,  healing, herbal, history chinese herbal medicine, history of acupuncture,  massage, medical, needles, oriental, pain, rodowca, supplement posted by james rodowca, msom, l.ac. @ 1:46 pm return to
"i think  people have a misconception that it’s mystical or weird," rodowca  said.
it doesn’t just leave when you walk out of the office," she said, adding that she’s recommended rodowca to others.
they are valuable commodities to the fragrance and flavorant industries.
a small amount of sugar (or other sweetener) can be added to alter the taste, if desired.
raw plant material, consisting of the flowers, leaves, wood, bark, roots, seeds, or peel, is put into an alembic 1 (distillation apparatus) over water.
"it’s actually a very logical system of health, but it’s different than western medicine."
tea has its origin in the coastal island city of xiamen, known as egret island,  because of the many egrets that used to ride there; the river is called egret  river, inspiring the brand name for this product.
this formula, available also as a patent remedy, contains the following ingredients in common with baojenmi tea: crataegus, shen-chu, raphanus, citrus, hoelen, and malt.
chinese physicians point out also that alisma counteracts the “greasy quality” of herbs; because of this property, it was thought to reduce excess grease (fat) in the body, which has since been found to be true, based on laboratory and clinical evaluations.
as such another solvent, often ethyl alcohol, which only dissolves the fragrant low-molecular weight compounds, is used to extract the fragrant oil from the concrete.
the main ingredient is tea leaf from fujian province (reported to be 50% of the product contents), which have been shown to help lower blood lipids.
rodowca said patients, who range in age from infants to the elderly, can benefit from the therapy sessions, which usually last about an hour.
in some cases, chinese herbal supplements, chinese massage and heat therapy can  accompany a patient’s treatment.
the goal is to get the body back into homeostasis.
the traditional formula was indicated for treating stagnant food, eructation, diarrhea, and thick coating on the tongue, indicating the phlegm excess resulting from food stagnation related to overeating.
although highly fragrant, concretes contain large quantities of non-fragrant waxes and resins.
some can cause severe irritation or provoke an allergic reaction.
while some advocate the ingestion of essential oils for therapeutic purposes, this should never be done except under the supervision of a professional who is licensed to prescribe such treatment.
for this reason, many practitioners of aromatherapy choose to buy organically produced oils.
eo’s should always be kept out of the reach of children.
the term essential is intended to indicate that the oil is the fragrant essence of the plant from which it is extracted and not in the more common grammatical sense of being indispensable.
rodowca, a licensed acupuncturist, opened acupuncture one, llc in 2003 after receiving his master of science in oriental medicine degree from the midwest college of oriental medicine and serving his internship with a chinese doctor.
as one who performs acupuncture therapy, james  rodowca needs a steady hand.
the story takes place in france in the 1700’s.
the  chinese believe qi flows through the body in regular pathways, called  meridians.
solvent extraction most flowers contain very little volatile oil to undergo expression and their chemical components are to delicate and easily denatured by the high heat used in steam distillation.
one estimate, compiled from data in 1989,1990, and 1994 from various sources gives the following total production, in tones, of essential oils for which more than 1,000 tonnes were produced.
according to the package information, if no dietary changes are made, one can still lose weight, though it is best to have a low calorie diet for continued weight loss.
since 1980, when xiamen was opened as a special economic zone, skyscrapers and new factories sprung up, including production and export of bojenmi tea, which won an award in france in 1986.
instead, a solvent such as hexane or supercritical carbon dioxide is used to extract the oils.
there were countless  ships and boats sailing in and out of the port there.
a small amount of sugar (or other sweetener) can be added  to alter the taste, if desired.
in 2006, the german movie perfume: the story of a murderer was made on the subject of essential oils.
rodowca said that since the needles  are small and unlike hypodermic needles, the treatments are painless.
supercritical carbon dioxide is used as a solvent in supercritical fluid extraction.
xiamen, with a population of over one million, is a famous scenic and historic  spot, and has become well-known as commercial center.
people began to settle on this island during the tang dynasty (618-907  a.d.).
tuesday, february 27, 2007 essential oil - acupuncture one - medical acupuncture, chinese herbal medicine from wikipedia an essential oil is a concentrated, hydrophobic liquid containing volatile aromatic compounds from plants.
the use of herbal distillates in cosmetics is increasing.
bojenmi tea has a mild taste, something like ordinary black tea, with a slight added spicy-bitter taste.
"many times people can cut out their medications.
"we try to provide a very relaxed and soothing environment."
bojenmi tea treats the same conditions as baohe wan.
it is produced by distillation.
extracts from hexane and other hydrophobic solvent are called concretes, which is a mixture of essential oil, waxes, resins and other lipophilic (oil soluble) plant material.
the alcohol is removed by a second distillation, leaving behind the absolute.
a story about the value of ordinary green tea in removing fat was told this way: “in the chinese restaurants, to clean up the spilled greasy food left after a meal, some of the remaining tea is poured onto the table top and then the grease dissolves and is easily cleaned up.”
many common essential oils have medicinal properties that have been applied in folk medicine since ancient times and are still widely used today.
people began to settle on this island during the tang dynasty (618-907 a.d.).
the chinese believe qi flows through the body in regular pathways, called meridians.
"i think people have a misconception that it’s mystical or weird," rodowca said.
by rachel rausch july 7, 2006 greenville-
ginger leaves: basil, bay leaf, cinnamon, common sage, eucalyptus, lemon grass, melaleuca, oregano, patchouli, peppermint, pine, rosemary, spearmint, tea tree, thyme, wintergreen resin: frankincense, myrrh flowers: chamomile, clary sage, clove, geranium, hyssop, jasmine, lavender, manuka, marjoram, orange, rose, ylang-ylang peel: bergamot, grapefruit, lemon, lime, orange, tangerine root: valerian rose oil the most well-known essential oil is probably rose oil, produced from the petals of rosa damascena and rosa centifolia.
interest in such uses of essential oils has enjoyed a revival in recent decades, with the popularity of aromatherapy, in which oils are heated and volatized.
in addition, many are claimed to have an uplifting effect on the mind, though different essential oils have different properties.
he’s got a great sense of humor.
although supercritical carbon dioxide is also used for making decaffeinated coffee, the actual process is different.
some plant hydrosols have unpleasant smells and are therefore not sold.
it is not to be confused with essential fatty acids.
some oils can be toxic to some domestic animals, cats in particular.
7 smoke the smoke from burning essential oils may contain potential carcinogens, such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (pahs).
by rachel rausch appleton post-crescent west july 7, 2006 greenville-
as the water is heated the steam passes through the plant material, vaporizing the volatile compounds.
xiamen is also known as the  garden of the sea and the green island, because of its luxuriant plant life.
some eo’s including many of the citrus peel oils, are photosensitizers, increasing the skin’s reaction to sunlight and making it more likely to burn.
"he’s very knowledgeable and he’s a great listener and he’s fun.
in addition to rectifying the digestive  disturbance that leads to accumulation of fat and water with resulting weight  gain, it also helps conduct out excess fats from the blood.
it does not yield an absolute directly.
this herb formulation is provided in the form of loose tea and easy to use tea bags.
many oils that are used medicinally are essential oils, which are distilled rather than pressed or otherwise extracted.
in addition to rectifying the digestive disturbance that leads to accumulation of fat and water with resulting weight gain, it also helps conduct out excess fats from the blood.
"it (acupuncture)  provides substantial relief," rodowca said.