it ismandatory to wear a helmet when riding in this area.
monday - closed tuesday office 11.30am - 1.30pm wednesday closed thursday office 11.30am - 1.30pm friday - closed © 2010-2012 edmonton ski club all rights reservedyou are using thebns add widget plugin!
bunny hill is the beginners area and is serviced by a tow rope.
twin birch is our steepest pitched run and is classed as a black diamond.
to the  right from the lift line there is a 36ft wide area of small moguls.
grassy is our shortest run and is often left ungroomed.
all jumps, rails, bars and tubes are marked with the degree of difficulty, it isimportant for all boarders and skiers using this area to familiarize themselves with theterrain park rules .
all jumps, rails, bars and tubes are marked with the degree of  difficulty, it isimportant for all boarders and skiers using  this area to familiarize themselves with theterrain park rules .
boarders and skiers using this area are not permitted to alter,  build or introduce any new jumps, rails, bars or tubes without seeking full  permission from the edmonton ski club management team.
anyone found to be doing so will be removed from site and privileges revoked.
t-bar is our longest run and has varying pitches.
often  groomed at the lift line as the area is used on a regular basis by race teams  as a training area.
surrounded by natural tree lines skiers and boarders often enjoy this area when we have benefited from a natural snow fall as the pitch often gathers many centimeters of powder snow.
with more gentler pitches off to the right of the lift line for skiers and boarders that are moving on to more difficult terrain with instructors.
this area is for skiers and boarders that are at a moreadvanced level and is serviced by a poma lift.
anyone found to be doing  so will be removed from site and privileges revoked.
the terrain park is serviced by two lifts tin can and  bunny tow.
it  is not serviced by a direct lift line but can be accessed from t-bar and twin  birch.
bunny hill is the beginners area and is  serviced by a tow rope.
this week monday - closed
intermediate and more advanced skier and snowboarding area.
leave a reply cancel reply you must be logged in to post a comment.
with more gentler pitches off to the right of the lift line  for skiers and boarders that are moving on to more difficult terrain with  instructors.
boarders and skiers using this area are not permitted to alter, build or introduce any new jumps, rails, bars or tubes without seeking full permission from the edmonton ski club management team.
this area is for skiers and boarders that are  at a moreadvanced level and is serviced by a poma lift.
to the right from the lift line there is a 36ft wide area of small moguls.
you must be logged in to post a comment.
again this area has a variety of pitches, jumps, rails, bars and tubes.
edmonton ski club has five ski areas on it’s site of varying degrees of difficulty.
this area is marked as a green area and is regularly  groomed and has a small pitch which enables beginners in skiing or snowboarding  to learn how to get started and the different techniques required to move on to  a more difficult terrain.
it is not serviced by a direct lift line but can be accessed from t-bar and twin birch.
this area is marked as a green area and is regularly groomed and has a small pitch which enables beginners in skiing or snowboarding to learn how to get started and the different techniques required to move on to a more difficult terrain.
often groomed at the lift line as the area is used on a regular basis by race teams as a training area.
for skiers and boarders that are at a moreadvanced level of freestyle.
again this area has a variety of pitches, jumps, rails, bars and  tubes.
safe kids canada – helmet safety winter safety –
the terrain park is serviced by two lifts tin can and bunny tow.
surrounded by natural tree lines skiers and boarders often enjoy this  area when we have benefited from a natural snow fall as the pitch often gathers  many centimeters of powder snow.
downhill skiing edmonton ski club – about us edmonton ski club has five ski areas on it’s site of varying degrees  of difficulty.