the water and the cold sculpt  incredible forms, and create the ice giants that become the climbers domain..... ...
therefore, each of our courses is based on a  mutual exchange of experience and of course training since one is not born an  alpinist, one becomes onerock climbing  climbing vertical rock is  like performing in a carefully choreographed dance.
rapid progression can be achieved with small  tips that we offer.
come and have a taste of the ever changing world to experience something  completely new.
guided activities, styles & disciplines group sizes at least 1 person durations at least 1 day required skill level open to all required equipment not applicable targeted activities cross-country skiing, heli skiing/snowboarding, ice climbing, mountaineering, rock climbing, skiing, snowboarding our certificatons all our guides are high mountain guides, members of the uiagm (the international mountain guide associations union).
this gives you a guarantee of quality supervision, which places your safety first.
whatever your ability level is, we will adapt our  courses in order to best help you achieve your full potential.
mountaineering summer mountaineering offers multiple possibilities.
therefore, each of our courses is based on a mutual exchange of experience and of course training since one is not born an alpinist, one becomes onerock climbing climbing vertical rock is like performing in a carefully choreographed dance.
in case of cancellation more than 15 days before the start of the  course, your cheque will be sent back to you.
each route is like a mystery that must be unraveled.
if less than 15 days notice is  given, you will lose your deposit
together we can discover the glaciers of the  vallée blanche, the grands montets, la grave and many more.
with the first glimmer of spring the narrow streams return, but for  now, they are ours to conquer.
as the difficulty increases, the rock becomes  less forgiving and one must find the exact sequences of movements in order to  reach the top.
we  offer guided services to some of the most beautiful summits in the alps.
some  are more arduous than others but none are trivial.
we also offer climbs on some of today’s most modern  routes in the oisans massif, the mont blanc and the incredible limestone of the  aravis.
username password destination this page snowboarding member site snowboarding forum snowboarding pictures section picture management remember me - site options - how to link to us - other languages - chinese - in dutch - more websites - diving - fishing - fitness - golf - hiking - ice climbing - kayaking - kite surfing - meditation - mountain biking - mountaineering - nordic walking - rafting - rock climbing - running - sailing - skiing - surfing - yoga - information - information central - basics & backgrounds - getting started - learn snowboarding - snowboarding styles - snowboarding tricks - snowboarding variations - equipment overview - safety & guidelines - snowboarding holidays - professional snowboarders - information search - dictionary - site map - submit an article - news - subscribe to feeds - news central - february 2012 - january 2012 - 2011 news archive - 2010 news archive - 2009 news archive - 2008 news archive - 2007 news archive - 2006 news archive - news archives search - submit a news item - pictures - picture sharing central - all pictures - latest additions - most popular - highest rated - editor's choices - professional - all photo albums - latest additions - most popular - highest rated - editor's choices - professional - share your pictures - forum - main forum - introductions - ask our super members - general snowboarding - techniques & styles - gear & equipment - travel & destinations - chit chat - website related - join our forum - community - community central - forum - picture sharing - members site - be a super member - free myspace layouts - free desktop wallpapers - free screen savers - snowboarding resources - become a member - shop - gift ideas - shopping center - gear for men - gear for women - gear for kids - discounted gear on sale - snowboarding essentials - snowboards - snowboard boots - snowboard bindings - snowboarding gear - backpacks - helmets - goggles - snowboarding apparel - jackets - snowboard pants - snowboarding safety - first aid kits - avalanche safety - snowboard accessories - tuning kit - snowboarding resources - snowboard movies - downloadable videos - gear buying guides - shop by brand - partner shops - product search - how to add your products - travel - travel center - holidays & vacations - accommodations - schools & instructors - snowboard guides - equipment rentals - ski resorts - travel search - how to get listed - business - advertising & marketing - link & banner advertising - brand awareness - product advertising - services advertising - site statistics - shop partner program - travel partner program - link partnerships - start a site with us - about us - contact us - legal information search entire site info news pictures forum shop travel service overview activities cross-country skiing, heli skiing/snowboarding, ice climbing, mountaineering, rock climbing, skiing, snowboarding city chamonix state rhone-alpes country france duration at least 1 day group size at least 1 person local transport not included insurance not included season all year start price 45.00 ($54.90) per person/package linked areas & services chamonix - mont blanc eiger gran paradiso matterhorn serre chevalier zermatt chamonix alpine guide - mountain guide ... pictures mountaineering and alpine rock climbing around the alps la dame du lac, one of the greatest french ice fall off- piste, ski and snowboard heliskiing and heliboarding worldwide expeditions pakistan snowboarding travel directory look for: - any - snowboarding holidays accommodations snowboarding instructors snowboarding guides equipment rentals ski resorts region: - any - africa antarctica asia caribbean europe middle-east oceania north america central america south america country: - choose region - state/province: - choose country - get your servicelisted if you offer any snowboarding related services then we invite you to get listed in our worldwide snowboarding directory: - home - snowboarding travel - france - rhone-alpes - mountain guide adventure snowboarding guides more info & bookings review this service get listed tell a friend mountain guide adventure
heli skiing/snowboarding  have  you an insatiable appetite for virgin powder in the mountains ?
ice climbing with the start of winter, a world comes to life which lies dormant for nine months of the year.
with ice axes, crampons, dry tools and not a little innovation, the ascent of the icy monsters is an incredible feeling.
the water and the cold sculpt incredible forms, and create the ice giants that become the climbers domain..... ...
heli skiing/snowboarding have you an insatiable appetite for virgin powder in the mountains ?
whether you would like to climb la meije, mont blanc or the aiguille du midi, now is the time to go for it.
create a free account | login contact close create a free account to enjoy many features: username your email close members login:
skiing  whether you snowboard, telemark or ski, off-piste  is the soul of all mountain riding.
once the mountains have lost their blanket of ice and snow, the rock underneath becomes more accessible.
come and have a taste of the ever changing world to experience something completely new.
some are more arduous than others but none are trivial.
each route is like  a mystery that must be unraveled.
if less than 15 days notice is given, you will lose your deposit comments xan monday 13th december 2010 at 7:37:07 am do you do climbs to the summit of mount blanc?
in case of cancellation more than 15 days before the start of the course, your cheque will be sent back to you.
as the difficulty increases, the rock becomes less forgiving and one must find the exact sequences of movements in order to reach the top.
ideal conditions allow you to accomplish your mountaineering dreams.
whatever your ability level is, we will adapt our courses in order to best help you achieve your full potential.
with ice axes, crampons, dry tools and not a  little innovation, the ascent of the icy monsters is an incredible feeling.
we offer guided services to some of the most beautiful summits in the alps.
then  try heliskiing this opens up 3700 metres of possible descent ( 2  helidrops), in a breathtaking setting… we offer heliskiing in  italy, in the val veny valley just 30 minutes from chamonix.
then try heliskiing this opens up 3700 metres of possible descent ( 2 helidrops), in a breathtaking setting we offer heliskiing in italy, in the val veny valley just 30 minutes from chamonix.
i would be part of a group of two, with both individuals very fit!
to master off-piste, you need to adapt your riding to the snow and terrain, and develop a feeling for the snow and the mountain.
we strive to teach you the requisite skills in order to make your climbing adventure safe.
skiing whether you snowboard, telemark or ski, off-piste is the soul of all mountain riding.
all our locations offer unforgettable skiing with our main goal : to find the best conditions to ride each day.
together we can discover the glaciers of the vallée blanche, the grands montets, la grave and many more.
your experience will grow with each summit climbed and peaks that seemed impossible before will be within your reach.
all  our locations offer unforgettable skiing with our main goal : to find the best  conditions to ride each day.
local transport not included insurance not included additional we provide for free : grivel ice axes and crampon, safety equipment such as harness, avalanche transceiver, shovel and probe nearby attractions paraglide, mountain biking, hiking pricing & conditions starting price 45.00 ($54.90) per person/package season availability all year policies & conditions your booking will be confirmed upon receiving a deposit cheque of 20 % of total cost per person of the course you have chosen, in the currency of your country of origin, made out to sébastien laurent and to send to our mailing address
once the mountains have lost their blanket of ice and snow, the  rock underneath becomes more accessible.
group types private groups kids/youth elderly workshops/seminars mountain skills & disciplines hiking mountaineering canyoneering backpacking high altitude caving camping traversing coasteering rock climbing aid climbing big walling ice climbing free climbing ropes & knots bouldering solo climbing belaying indoor climbing lead climbing rappeling traditional climbing top roping avalanche awareness outdoor survival first aid environmental awareness navigation search & rescue schedules & activities cross-country skiing if you are looking for virgin snow, if you like spending nights up in mountain huts and enjoy traversing whole mountain ranges on skis, ski touring is for you.
if not, are you aware of anybody who does fairly cheaply?
included services meals not applicable the effort of ski touring uphill is more than compensated by your arrival at a mountain pass or summit.
the effort of ski touring  uphill is more than compensated by your arrival at a mountain pass or summit.
untouched slopes are waiting for you to ski down… choose a tour  to suit you : from the famous chamonix-zermatt haute route to a week of  discovering new terrain in the queyras.
your experience  will grow with each summit climbed and peaks that seemed impossible before will  be within your reach.
snowboarding  whether you snowboard, telemark or ski, off-piste  is the soul of all mountain riding.
whether you would like to climb la  meije, mont blanc or the aiguille du midi, now is the time to go for it.
instead of the tamed conditions found on piste, off-piste is a return to the wild....
when the big freeze hits, the ice  world comes to life for a fleeting instant.
with the first glimmer of spring the narrow streams return, but for now, they are ours to conquer.
we  strive to teach you the requisite skills in order to make your climbing  adventure safe.
back to top post a comment name: (required) email address: (will not be published) (required)
pitch after pitch, as the ground seems further and further  away, the thrill of climbing and that of the vertical world will be at your  fingertips.
ideal conditions allow you to  accomplish your mountaineering dreams.
- information - news - pictures - forum - community - shop - travel - business
this state certificate confer to the holder the highest level of international competence for the supervision of winter climbing, ice climbing, off-piste glacial skiing, rock climbing, via-ferrata, and mountain expeditions world wide.
instead of the tamed conditions found  on piste, off-piste is a return to the wild....
rapid progression can be achieved with small tips that we offer.
website: comment: back to top © 2003-2012 abc of snowboarding, part of maxlifestyle international inc.
pitch after pitch, as the ground seems further and further away, the thrill of climbing and that of the vertical world will be at your fingertips.
rock climbing  aid climbing  big walling ice climbing   free climbing  ropes & knots bouldering  solo climbing  belaying indoor climbing  lead climbing  rappeling traditional climbing  top  roping avalanche awareness  outdoor survival  first aid environmental awareness  navigation  search & rescue schedules & activities cross-country skiing  if you are looking for virgin snow, if you  like spending nights up in mountain huts and enjoy traversing whole mountain  ranges on skis, ski touring is for you.
all our guides are high mountain guides, members of the uiagm (the international mountain guide associations union).
when the big freeze hits, the ice world comes to life for a fleeting instant.
to master off-piste,  you need to adapt your riding to the snow and terrain, and develop a feeling  for the snow and the mountain.
included  services meals not applicable local  transport not included insurance not  included additional we provide for free : grivel ice axes  and crampon, safety equipment such as harness, avalanche transceiver, shovel  and probe nearby attractions paraglide,  mountain biking, hiking pricing & conditions   starting price €45.00 ($54.90) per person/package season availability  all year  policies & conditions  your booking  will be confirmed upon receiving a deposit cheque of 20 % of total cost per  person of the course you have chosen, in the currency of your country of  origin, made out to sébastien laurent and to send to our mailing address
untouched slopes are waiting for you to ski down choose a tour to suit you : from the famous chamonix-zermatt haute route to a week of discovering new terrain in the queyras.
mountaineering  summer mountaineering offers multiple  possibilities.
we also offer climbs on some of todays most modern routes in the oisans massif, the mont blanc and the incredible limestone of the aravis.
ice  climbing  with the start of winter, a world comes to life which lies  dormant for nine months of the year.
snowboarding whether you snowboard, telemark or ski, off-piste is the soul of all mountain riding.
"this website was born from my desire to share with others, my passion for the mountains and all things vertical" sébastien laurent you will find everything here to feed your dreams of getting to the top of a summit, along with the means to realize them !