there  are available ski runs for beginners, intermediates and advanced skiers,  designed with international markings and multilingual signs.
before you go get the latest travel advice and security  information wherever you travel from the government's travel advisory service.
almost 30% of its territory is occupied by mountain areas of different origin.
although the resort has been famous for no more than 10 years it has a lot to offer visitors.
each of them is situated in a different mountain region, but all the resorts offer everything you need to spend a great winter vacation.
during the recent years a multi-million euro investment in a brand new skiing area has been made.
the air in is clear and  free of any pollutants.
the ski  pistes are located in two main ski centres, chalin valog and shiligarnika.
excellent ski schools are available in each resort.
the lifts and pistes operator are excellent with an eight seat gondola cable car, five 4 seat lifts, one 3-seat lift, 7 drags and 10 baby drags.
they are approximately 10k above the town on the northern slopes of pirin, and are easily accessible with a trip of approx 25 mins on the gondola lift from the town.
the average annual temperatures vary within the range from -3°c to 14°c.
more than 100 qualified ski instructors fluent in english are here to teach both beginners and intermediate skiers and snowboarders.
about 40% of it are hilly areas of altitude between 300 and 600m above the sea level.
sitnqkovo – martinovi baraki –7 pistes; markudjik- 4 pistes and qstrebec- 3 pistes.
the  average air temperature is - 3 ° c.
bovorats has twice hosted world cup competitions in alpine skiing.
its biathlon track is one of the best in europe.
the pistes on qstrebets are the best and many competitions are held there.
there are regular bus services running every 30 mins.
dating from 1896, the oldest bulgarian winter resort is borovets.
there are various pistes which vary in difficulty and length and are grouped into three regions:
they are located between 1926m and 1450m above the sea level on the northern, eastern and western slopes of the snejanka peak.
they  are approximately 10k above the town on the northern slopes of pirin, and are  easily accessible with a trip of approx 25 mins on the gondola lift from the  town.
bansko has the best snow record and the longest ski  season (15 dec - 15 may) of all bulgarian ski resorts.
although the resort has  been famous for no more than 10 years it has a lot to offer visitors.
during the recent years a multi-million euro investment in a brand new  skiing area has been made.
the air in is clear and free of any pollutants.
it is situated on the  northern slopes of the mousala ridge in the eastern part of rila.
there are well designed ski runs, for beginners or advanced skiers, complying with international standards, as well as ski tracks for top skiing championships, cross-country skiing, biathlon and ski jumps.
it is just 160k away from the capital sofia and 6k away from razlog.
the ski runs in pamporovo come in various levels of difficulty.
more  than 100 qualified ski instructors fluent in english are here to teach both  beginners and intermediate skiers and snowboarders.
the  resort has excellent snow conditions with great snow cover from december till  may. the lifts and pistes operator are excellent with an eight seat gondola  cable car, five 4 seat lifts, one 3-seat lift, 7 drags and 10 baby drags.
but there are also difficult ski runs like the giant slalom run  which is an excellent run for the experts.
all in all great off-piste skiing and snowboarding is available in this resort, however we recommend using a guide if planning to go off-piste.
there are various pistes  which vary in difficulty and length and are grouped into three regions:  sitnqkovo – martinovi baraki –7 pistes; markudjik- 4 pistes and  qstrebec- 3 pistes.
this is helped by 44  technoalpine snow cannons which cover most of the slopes and make the ski  season last longer.
the  total length of the wire equipment in the resort is 26 kilometers.
the winter in the resort is quite  mild and has a lot of snow!
all slopes are safe guarded and maintained in a very good condition.
there are 3 modern winter resorts in bulgaria.
bovorats has twice hosted world cup competitions in alpine  skiing.
borovets is an alpine resort type and provides excellent conditions  for snow sports during the winter: skiing, night- skiing, snowboarding,  cross-country skiing, ski jumps and biathlon, skidoo, ice-skating etc.
ski rentals are available near the ski runs and the lift stations.
regardless of its small territory the landscape of bulgaria is highly varied.
it is just 160k away from  the capital sofia and 6k away from razlog.
bansko bansko is situated nearby the river glazane on the north eastern slopes of  pirin, right below the highest part of the mountain.
the ski runs in pamporovo come in  various levels of difficulty.
the total length of the marked pistes is 65k.
this is a result of the influence of the aegean sea and the skiing season starts from mid december to mid april.
nestled in  pine woods 1390 meters above the sea level (with highest pistes at 2600 m)makes
fco travel advice: europe policy information policy wording sports and activities claims the traveller magazine travel guides ski resorts know
the town of bansko is located at 925m above sea level, and its skiing area is at 2000-2600m, the highest peak in the area being vihren at 2914m.
borovets is the largest and most modern resort in bulgaria.
there is a perfect combination of warm sea and high snowy mountains, suitable both for skiing and winter tourism.
the average temperature during the coldest month is january with the average temperature reaching 4.8ºc. most commonly the slopes have snow cover from mid december till april.
the gentle profile of the mountain with its rounded slopes and summits makes pamporovo particularly suitable for beginners.
borovets is an alpine resort type and provides excellent conditions for snow sports during the winter: skiing, night- skiing, snowboarding, cross-country skiing, ski jumps and biathlon, skidoo, ice-skating etc.
before you go breakdown cover vehicle rescue direct car and motorcycle breakdown cover international travel insurance travel insurance for non-uk or irish residents travel insurance direct ireland travel insurance for irish residents
bansko has the best snow record and the longest ski season (15 dec - 15 may) of all bulgarian ski resorts.
the excellent skiing conditions attract thousands of winter sports lovers not  only from bulgaria but from many other countries.
bansko has developed into bulgaria’s favourite ski & snowboard destination, thanks to the excellent facilities combined with the unique architecture and historical significance.
this is helped by 44 technoalpine snow cannons which cover most of the slopes and make the ski season last longer.
bansko is situated nearby the river glazane on the north eastern slopes of pirin, right below the highest part of the mountain.
but there are also difficult ski runs like the giant slalom run which is an excellent run for the experts.
all in all great off-piste skiing and snowboarding is available in this resort,  however we recommend using a guide if planning to go off-piste.
the resort has excellent snow conditions with great snow cover from december till may.
the ski pistes are located in two main ski centres, chalin valog and shiligarnika.
before you go get the latest travel advice and security information wherever you travel from the government's travel advisory service.
bovorats, bansko and pamporova.
pamporovo has an exclusive climate featuring a soft winter with around 120 sunny days during the skiing period.
it is situated on the northern slopes of the mousala ridge in the eastern part of rila.
fco travel advice: europe
the average air temperature is - 3 ° c.
pamporova pamporovo has an exclusive climate featuring a soft winter with around 120  sunny days during the skiing period.
ski rentals are available  near the ski runs and the lift stations.
nestled in pine woods 1390 meters above the sea level (with highest pistes at 2600 m)makes
the gentle profile of the mountain with  its rounded slopes and summits makes pamporovo particularly suitable for  beginners.
it a perfect place for relax and recreation.
lifts, drags, and emergency patrols are available too.
there are available ski runs for beginners, intermediates and advanced skiers, designed with international markings and multilingual signs.
the pistes on qstrebets are the best and many competitions  are held there.
borovets is easily accessible, only 12k along  a first class road connects it with samokov and sofia, the bulgarian capital is  just 72k away.
borovets  is the largest and most modern resort in bulgaria.
the town of bansko is located at 925m above sea level, and its skiing area  is at 2000-2600m, the highest peak in the area being vihren at 2914m.
the average temperature during the coldest month is  january with the average temperature reaching 4.8ºc. most commonly the  slopes have snow cover from mid december till april.
the total length of the wire equipment in the resort is 26 kilometers.
borovets is easily accessible, only 12k along a first class road connects it with samokov and sofia, the bulgarian capital is just 72k away.
the excellent skiing conditions attract thousands of winter sports lovers not only from bulgaria but from many other countries.
this is a result of the influence of the  aegean sea and the skiing season starts from mid december to mid april.
pamporova bovorats dating from 1896, the oldest bulgarian winter resort is borovets.
they are located between 1926m and 1450m above  the sea level on the northern, eastern and western slopes of the snejanka peak.
the winter in the resort is quite mild and has a lot of snow!
bansko has developed into  bulgaria’s favourite ski & snowboard destination, thanks to the  excellent facilities combined with the unique architecture and historical  significance.