if you look at a video, you will notice some racers on the world cup show their poles extremely bent from the amount of weight they are placing on it, so don’t be afraid to put a lot of body weight on your poles.
once  the turn is completed, the basket is put into the snow with quite a bit of  pressure.
the  manufacturer does a quick wax only to protect the base from drying out.
when you are on a big mountain and have the option of skiing in the  trees or gladed areas, these would be the best places to ski on flat light  days.
most ski schools have trained and certified their staff with the latest technical information relating to equipment, and the new way of skiing.
depending upon the snow condition and temperature, the texture of your base determines how fast your skis run.
on those gray days in january when it is –20 and cloudy, there is a  flat light that occurs on the snow surface.
some of the growth areas of interest are bumps, adult racing, steeps, off-piece skiing and snowboarding.
provided by the canadian ski council ski  tuning most skis when first purchased are not in any shape to be skied on.
over the past few years, ski equipment has changed tremendously which technically affects how you ski.
try this out on a gray day, ski beside some trees for a while then move into the centre of the slope
provided by the canadian ski council skiing  in bad light
your guide to alpine skiing ski tips are you a beginner or want to get started?
most of it is geared towards having a better experience on the slopes and getting people to achieve their goals relating to terrain, gates and having a social time.
depending upon the  snow condition and temperature, the texture of your base determines how fast  your skis run.
most people prefer to have the bases and edges flat and a slight bevel on  the side edges.
on steep  slopes the pole plant is very important to stabilize the body and help in the  initiation of the turn to let the feet turn quickly, enabling you to balance on  the last half of the turn.
some manufacturers have a recommendation for  how their skis should be tuned, but it also comes down to personal preference.
for instance, in the spring the texture should be quite coarse  so that on the wet snow the water does not have a suction action on the ski to  slow it down.
slalom, gs and downhill skiers all have a different base and side  bevels.
base texture is a very important part of ski tuning.
while skiing, they are the key piece of  equipment for maintaining rhythm.
every few years the evolution of ski teaching and general skiing takes giant leaps.
some of the growth areas of interest  are bumps, adult racing, steeps, off-piece skiing and snowboarding.
on steep slopes the pole plant is very important to stabilize the body and help in the initiation of the turn to let the feet turn quickly, enabling you to balance on the last half of the turn.
some manufacturers have a recommendation for how their skis should be tuned, but it also comes down to personal preference.
while skiing, they are the key piece of equipment for maintaining rhythm.
depending on how you ski, the degree of the bevel can be  altered.
instead, plant the pole firmly in the snow, leave it there and let your wrist go over the basket dragging the pole as the turn continues.
provided by the canadian ski council
to view some ski tips provided by the certified pros at the canadian ski instructors' alliance, please visit their web site by clicking on the logo or link below: http://www.snowpro.com/csia/e/ ski poles, which vary in length, are to be used to help move around the ski area for mobility and stability.
try this out on a gray day, ski beside some trees for a while then move  into the centre of the slope
the manufacturer does a quick wax only to protect the base from drying out.
provided by the canadian ski council most skis when first purchased are not in any shape to be skied on.
having the trees and the shading from them shows contour in the slope  which almost makes it feel like a sunny day.
most ski schools have trained and certified  their staff with the latest technical information relating to equipment, and  the new way of skiing.
depending on how you ski, the degree of the bevel can be altered.
most of it is geared towards having a better experience on the  slopes and getting people to achieve their goals relating to terrain, gates and  having a social time.
instead, plant the pole firmly in the snow, leave it there and let  your wrist go over the basket dragging the pole as the turn continues.
having the basket follow the outside foot through the turn can set the pole rhythm.
having the trees and the shading from them shows contour in the slope which almost makes it feel like a sunny day.
safety tips 10 tips for wearing a helmet fit and sizing ski areas snow reports to view some ski tips provided by the certified pros at the  canadian ski instructors' alliance, please visit their web site by clicking on  the logo or link below: http://www.snowpro.com/csia/e/ pole planting ski poles, which vary in length, are to be used to help move around the  ski area for mobility and stability.
if you are skiing in areas without glades (mostly groomed runs), try to stay to the sides of the slopes close to the trees.
how to dress circles, squares, diamonds, what do they mean?
and i am sure you will see the difference.
so try out the new era of ski teaching!
all ski schools have programs and lesson packages, such as discover skiing  / snowboarding packages.
most people try to plant their pole and remove it from the snow too quickly.
over the past few years, due to the fact that ski areas are busier, most people are trying to make more rhythmical and short radius turns.
most people prefer to have the bases and edges flat and a slight bevel on the side edges.
the interest in extreme skiing prompted by film companies has also tweaked the interest in younger kids to be more enthusiastic about the sport.
these packages offer lift, lesson and rental at a  discounted rate and are available to help improve your performance and enable  you to accomplish what you would like to do on a big mountain.
if you look at a video, you will notice some racers on the world cup show  their poles extremely bent from the amount of weight they are placing on it, so  don’t be afraid to put a lot of body weight on your poles.
repeat the process for the opposite side.
slalom, gs and downhill skiers all have a different base and side bevels.
talk to your local tuning shop about your specific needs as a base texturing is very hard to do without the proper equipment.
provided by ian kirkpatrick, horseshoe resort, for the canadian ski council find us on: photo gallery | contests | privacy policy français | english
most tuning shops now have advanced technology and can do whatever is  required for your specific skis.
if you are a boarder or a skier, it is always good to increase your  knowledge of these wonderful sports.
over the past few years, ski equipment has changed tremendously which  technically affects how you ski.
once the turn is completed, the basket is put into the snow with quite a bit of pressure.
if you are a boarder or a skier, it is always good to increase your knowledge of these wonderful sports.
the  interest in extreme skiing prompted by film companies has also tweaked the  interest in younger kids to be more enthusiastic about the sport.
provided by the canadian ski council taking  lessons at your local ski school
some goggle  manufacturers produce sunglasses that have a form of lens that will show  contrast.
repeat the process for the opposite  side.
over the past few years, due to the fact that ski areas are busier, most  people are trying to make more rhythmical and short radius turns.
on those gray days in january when it is –20 and cloudy, there is a flat light that occurs on the snow surface.
most tuning shops now have advanced technology and can do whatever is required for your specific skis.
provided by ian kirkpatrick, horseshoe resort, for the canadian ski council
talk to your local tuning shop about your specific needs as a base  texturing is very hard to do without the proper equipment.
the refraction on the trees helps give the snow some texture and makes it a lot easier to see.
having the  basket follow the outside foot through the turn can set the pole rhythm.
the refraction on the trees helps give the snow some texture and  makes it a lot easier to see.
some goggle manufacturers produce sunglasses that have a form of lens that will show contrast.
for instance, in the spring the texture should be quite coarse so that on the wet snow the water does not have a suction action on the ski to slow it down.
all ski schools have programs and lesson packages, such as discover skiing / snowboarding packages.
if you are skiing in areas without  glades (mostly groomed runs), try to stay to the sides of the slopes close to  the trees.
the next turn starts immediately.
ski schools typically have been viewed as educational institutions which gives them a dry appeal, but over the past ten years the emphasis has been placed on putting fun back into the sport.
so try out the  new era of ski teaching!
these packages offer lift, lesson and rental at a discounted rate and are available to help improve your performance and enable you to accomplish what you would like to do on a big mountain.
most people try to plant their pole and remove it from the snow too  quickly.
when you are on a big mountain and have the option of skiing in the trees or gladed areas, these would be the best places to ski on flat light days.
every few years the evolution of ski teaching and general skiing takes  giant leaps.
there are a number of ways you can combat flat light.
ski schools typically have been viewed as educational institutions which  gives them a dry appeal, but over the past ten years the emphasis has been  placed on putting fun back into the sport.
with flat light you cannot see  rolls and bumps on the snow surface which makes it quite difficult to ski  comfortably.
with flat light you cannot see rolls and bumps on the snow surface which makes it quite difficult to ski comfortably.