comments on this site are not the opinions of the yukon news and comments with vulgar language, libelous statements or falsified facts will be removed.
but does that mean the slopes are more dangerous than hockey rinks?
“these numbers do not include visits that involve only the emergency department or a doctor’s office or deaths at the scene, so the total number of injuries is actually much higher.”
excluding motor vehicle collisions, falls on ice were the most common cause  of hospital visits in winter, accounting for 7,138 in the 2010/11 season.
contact tom patrick at
contact tom patrick at (javascript must be enabled to view this email address)
the yukon news has provided readers with the opportunity to post their views and opinions regarding any stories published on its website to foster dynamic discussions.
about twice as many injuries result  from skiing and snowboarding than hockey each year, according to a study  released last week.
staying off the slopes, ice rink, snowmobiles and toboggans does not remove the dangers involved with snow and ice.
although the canadian standards association reports skiing and snowboarding injuries grew by about a quarter between 2004 and 2009, the study’s finding says the rate of head injuries from the two sports over the past five years has remained about the same.
staying off the slopes, ice rink, snowmobiles and toboggans does not remove  the dangers involved with snow and ice.
therefore, if twice as many people ski and snowboard than play hockey in canada, then the two activities have similar rates of injury.
last winter, skiing and snowboarding accounted for 2,329 hospital visits,  for one night or longer, in canada.
read all stories a yukon news investigation into the territory's addiction to booze.
the recent death of freestyle skier sarah burke was a stark reminder of the  dangers associated with winter sports.
that’s roughly 18 per cent of the 759 from  the last five years.
of course, few people are performing 1080s on a superpipe, but downhill  activities are one of the main causes for hospital stays, according to data  released last week from the canadian institute for health information.
about half of hockey injuries and a third of downhill injuries involved people between 10 to 19.
come back to www.yukon-news.com in a week to view all these stories for free!follow @yukon_news yukon news on facebook >
about half of hockey injuries and a third of downhill injuries involved  people between 10 to 19.
the sidewalk can be just as dangerous,  according to the study.
that’s twice as many as hockey with  1,114.
“there is a lot to enjoy about canadian winters, but safety and precautions are important across all age groups,” said greg webster, director of primary health-care information and clinical registries at the institute, in a media release.
without question, it reduces the risk of serious head injuries in case of a crash.”
excluding motor vehicle collisions, falls on ice were the most common cause of hospital visits in winter, accounting for 7,138 in the 2010/11 season.
“every year, more than 5,000 canadians get seriously  injured—requiring at least one night’s hospital stay—due to a  winter sport or recreational activity,” webster said.
of those, 81 per cent were male.
“when it comes to winter, it’s important that canadians get  outside to play and enjoy our slopes,” said dr. natalie yanchar,  associate professor of surgery and emergency medicine at dalhousie university  and medical director at iwk trauma care in halifax, in the release.
last year 135 head injuries from skiing and  snowboarding were reported.
“wearing a helmet is important for all ages to prevent a fun day in  the snow from ending in tragedy.
what the study fails to record is the number of canadians participating in  the various activities.
last winter, skiing and snowboarding accounted for 2,329 hospital visits, for one night or longer, in canada.
commenting is not available in this weblog entry.
the recent death of freestyle skier sarah burke was a stark reminder of the dangers associated with winter sports.
comments will be added once approved by a moderator.
skiing, snowboarding top hockey: winter injuries study friday january 27, 2012 by tom patrick tom patrick/yukon news sam schirmer wipes out during the arctic winter  games team trials at mt. sima on sunday.
the sidewalk can be just as dangerous, according to the study.
a yukon news investigation on the territory's housing crisis.
there are currently no comments on this story.
therefore, if twice as many people ski and snowboard  than play hockey in canada, then the two activities have similar rates of  injury.
“every year, more than 5,000 canadians get seriously injured—requiring at least one night’s hospital stay—due to a winter sport or recreational activity,” webster said.
images of sled dogs and their mushers during the cool dogs and hot springs race day organized by the dog powered sport association of the yukon on sunday at the takhini hot springs.
snowmobiling was an anomaly in the study when it came to age.
other activities listed in the study include snowmobiling with 1,126, ice skating with 889 and tobogganing with 171.
trendy tanning beds under the spotlight baldwin, wallingham on the button at bonspiel alpine skiers hit the slopes for yukon cup 18th-century spaniard sparks yukon art debate ‘deluxe private wildlife corridors’ explained status quo for yukon assessments: leef mine training group loses main funder low chinook salmon run predicted today's yukon news is available on newstands now.
without question, it reduces the risk of  serious head injuries in case of a crash.”
of course, few people are performing 1080s on a superpipe, but downhill activities are one of the main causes for hospital stays, according to data released last week from the canadian institute for health information.
the vast majority of snowmobile injuries - 752 of 1,126 - involved adults 20-49.
“when it comes to winter, it’s important that canadians get outside to play and enjoy our slopes,” said dr. natalie yanchar, associate professor of surgery and emergency medicine at dalhousie university and medical director at iwk trauma care in halifax, in the release.
if you have a complaint regarding a comment or have a question please contact the web administrator atwebadmin@yukon-news.com.
view the large selection of images by the yukon news’ team of photographers of athletes competing at the arctic winter games in whitehorse last week.
roughly half of those cases involved people 60 and older while 70 per cent involved people 50 and older.
last updated: 11:16am, apr 11, 2012 friday january 27, 2012 by tom patrick tom patrick/yukon newssam schirmer wipes out during the arctic winter games team trials at mt. sima on sunday.
“these  numbers do not include visits that involve only the emergency department or a  doctor’s office or deaths at the scene, so the total number of injuries  is actually much higher.”
the vast  majority of snowmobile injuries - 752 of 1,126 - involved adults 20-49.
that’s twice as many as hockey with 1,114.
although the canadian standards association reports skiing and snowboarding  injuries grew by about a quarter between 2004 and 2009, the study’s  finding says the rate of head injuries from the two sports over the past five  years has remained about the same.
comment now and be the first!
though injury rates between activities may be difficult to pinpoint, rates for ages and between genders are more defined.
what the study fails to record is the number of canadians participating in the various activities.
that’s roughly 18 per cent of the 759 from the last five years.
“there is a lot to enjoy about canadian winters, but safety and  precautions are important across all age groups,” said greg webster,  director of primary health-care information and clinical registries at the  institute, in a media release.
about twice as many injuries result from skiing and snowboarding than hockey each year, according to a study released last week.
last year 135 head injuries from skiing and snowboarding were reported.
other activities listed in the study include snowmobiling with 1,126,  ice skating with 889 and tobogganing with 171.
photographer peter mather spent the last three months documenting the popular creek and its surroundings.
“wearing a helmet is important for all ages to prevent a fun day in the snow from ending in tragedy.
read all stories more opinions > the city of whitehorse wants to build a subdivision and new road in the mcintyre creek area, but many residents would like to see the creek and surrounding area protected.
though injury rates between activities may be difficult to pinpoint, rates  for ages and between genders are more defined.
women accounted for 56 per cent of those hospitalized from falls on ice.
roughly half of those cases involved people 60 and older while 70 per cent  involved people 50 and older.
more multimedia > click to enlarge > these stories are currently published in our print edition: public pension contributions to rise legislators to close liquor loophole elias roped into whistleblower committee