from nyc: 5 hrs, albany: 2 1/2 hrs.
we are the only amga accredited, full service guiding establishment based soley out of the adirondack park.
new smyrna rentals.com www.
cross country skiing click here alpine skiing click here free style skiing click here telemark skiing click here ice climbing click here nordic skiing click here ski jumping click here snowshoeing click here biathlon.com click here adirondacks new york guide to sports, skiing, ski, snow, mountain climbing, rock climbing, ski races, ski mountains, sleigh rides, snowmobiling, hunting, fishingadirondacks new york guide to sports, skiing, ski, snow, mountain climbing, rock climbing, ski races, ski mountains, sleigh rides, snowmobiling, hunting, fishing the 1932 and 1980 winter olympic games have firmly established the adirondacks, and specifically lake placid, as the premier winter sports capital of the world.
follow route 9 for 4 miles to route 28 and proceed 16 miles to peaceful valley road.
© adirondacks.com - all rights reserved new york state & vermont travel guide network
info@goremtn.com key personnel: general manager: michael j. pratt assistant gm/ski school director: joe barclay director of marketing & sales: jason l. sherry directions; traveling from the south nys thruway to exit 24.
at whiteface mountain, you'll find some of the best alpine skiing and snowboarding in north america.
alternate route (from north or south)
cross country skiing
follow route 86 and continue thru saranac lake and lake placid to whiteface mountain.
take i-87 (the northway) to exit 25 (chestertown).
follow the gore mountain "trailblazer" signs through olmstedville then left on route 28n to north creek.
new smyrna beach weather.com www.
remarkable setting on one of the most beautiful lakes in the adirondacks!
cross-country skiing is a great way
attention snow mobilers book your reservations now for the upcoming winter season!
it has the greatest vertical drop this side of the rockies and  is the only ski area in the east to have hosted the olympic winter games.
cross country skiing click here web guide to cross country skiing.
gore mountain facts schedule: mid-november through mid-april.
for a comprehensive guide to new  york ski resorts please visitwww.newyorkskiing.com www.
from well groomed woodland tracks to lake bed riding - regardless of your level of ability, snowmobiling fun can be found in the adirondacks!click here for our snowmobile headquarters!
our relaxed, friendly atmosphere combined with wilderness location makes for a truly unique learning experience!
follow 87 to exit 30.
with hundreds of miles of beautiful backcountry ski trails, cross country skiers can pole their way from village to village stopping along the way to sample delicious homecooked meals at many trailside inns and bed and breakfast's.
continue on 86 thru saranac lake and lake placid to whiteface mountain.
3 miles west of northway (i-87) exit 18.
traveling from the west take i-90 (nys thruway) east to utica.
whatever your skill level, you can find outdoor adventure in the adirondacks!
the adirondacks offer many low fee or  free cross-country trails.
connect with route 7 west to i-87 north.
closed christmas day.
including canada, montana, idaho and lake tahoe.
from ottawa take routes south to the cornwall bridge.
from boston, springfield, hartford take massachusetts turnpike (i-90) to albany.
drive time: 5 1/2 hours.
daytona visitor guide.com www.
basic skills can be learned quickly and most cross-country  ski centers offer rentals and lessons.
skiing  |x-country | snowboarding |hockey |
cross country skiing vacations and listings of cross  country ski lodges in north america.
location: route 28 and peaceful valley road, north creek, ny, 21 miles off i-87 phone number: mountain offices, (518) 251-2411; snow report, (800) 342-1234 internet: website - http://www.goremountain.com; email-
continue on 73 for 28 miles to lake placid area.
it has the greatest vertical drop this side of the rockies and is the only ski area in the east to have hosted the olympic winter games.
you can find the most up to date adirondack snowmobiling trail conditions, information on snowmobile rentals, snowmobile maps, and restaurant locations for riders with just a click of your mouse.
click here home of two of the jewels of the northeast; gore mountain & whiteface mountain.
take i-87 (the northway) to exit 23 (warrensburg).
daytona beach visitor guide.com www.
drive times: from buffalo: 5 1/2 hours; rochester: 4 1/2 hours; syracuse: 3 1/2 hours.
new smyrna beach lodging.com www.
west mountain - 59 west mountain road, glens falls, ny 12804.
new smyrna beach dining.com www.
from buffalo, rochester, syracuse, points west take i-90 (ny state thruway) east to exit 36 (syracuse).
you can find the most up to  date adirondack snowmobiling trail conditions, information on snowmobile  rentals, snowmobile maps, and restaurant locations for riders with just a click  of your mouse.
north from utica to north creek.
new smyrna hotels.com www.
cross country  skiing in the adirondacks!
at whiteface mountain, just outside of lake placid, you'll find some of the best alpine skiing and snowboarding in north america.
in the winter the adirondacks offer world class winter sports including skiing , x-country , snowboarding , hockey, snowmobiling , dog sledding , ice fishing , ice climbing ,winter camping , skating , snowshoeing and bobsledding .
com | lakeplacidny.com | lakeplacidhotels.com | lakeplacidshopping.com | lakeplacidrestaurants.com| lakeplacidinns.com | lakeplaciddining.com | lakeplacidresorts.com | lakeplacidsports.com| lakeplacidskiing.com | lakeplacidhockey.com | lakeplacidschools.com | oldforge-newyork.com | adirondackrestaurants.com adirondackweddings.com | adirondackcamping.com | adirondackfishing.com | adirondackshopping.com | adirondacklodging.com| adirondackhotels.com | adirondackdining.com | adirondackskiing.com| adirondackweather.com | adirondackcrafts.com | villageoflakegeorge.com | discoverlakegeorge.com | lake-george-newyork.com | lakegeorgeclassifieds we also invite you to visit our comprehensive network of florida travel web sites: florida visitor guides.com www.
in addition to offering you links to adirondack cross country skiing we  also provide links to cross-country ski centers and equipment manufactures  around the country.
this facility is ideal for large or small snowmobile clubs & groups.
photo courtesy of snotours inc neighboring vermont boasts challenging skiing at killington, stowe &  stratton as well as several other fine ski centers.
the adirondack mountains have the largest, most diverse trail system for snowmobiling in ny state.
follow i-87 (northway) to exit 30, then use final directions above: "from new york city..."drive time from boston: 5 hours.
turn right in wevertown on route 28; proceed north to peaceful valley road.
perfect for large groups up to 40 people!
photo courtesy of snotours inc neighboring vermont boasts challenging skiing at killington, stowe & stratton as well as several other fine ski centers.
in vermont skiiers can choose from over seventeen major ski resorts including ascutney, bear creek, bolton valley, bromley, burke ,jay peak, killington/pico, mad river glen, middlebury snow bowl, mount snow, okemo, smugglers' notch, stowe, stratton, sugarbush and suicide six.
13th lake rd, north river, ny 12856 518-251-2444 email: mail@garnet-hill.com 301 main street/town hall lake placid ny 12946 518-523-1365
pick up i-787 north to cohoes.
pick up route 37 east to malone.
new smyrna beach shopping.com www.
daytona travel guide.com www.
adirondacks.com | adirondackrealestate.com | adirondackrentals.com | glensfalls.com | lakeplacidny.com | saranaclakenewyork.com | saratoga-newyork.com | upstate-newyork.com | lakechamplainvalley.com | burlington-vermont.com | thousandislandsnewyork.com | maloneny.com | northcreekny.com | westportnewyork.com | cliftonparknewyork.com | albany-new-york.com | troy-newyork.com | utica-newyork.com | rome-newyork.com | warrensburgnewyork.com | potsdam-newyork.com | adirondackhighpeaks.com | canton-newyork.com | massena-newyork.com | plattsburgh-newyork.com | lakeplacid-newyork.com | glensfalls.net | schroonlakenewyork.com | keeneny.com | keenevalleyny.com | chestertownny.com | glensfallsny.com | ticonderoganewyork.com | thechamplainvalley.com | champlain-valley.com | champlainvalleyregion.com | champlainvalley.net | saratogaspringsregion.com | watertown-newyork.com | saranaclakeny.com | highpeakswilderness.com | visitupstatenewyork.com | vermonttravelguides.com | burlington-vermont.com | stalbans-vermont.com | rutland-vermont.com | middlebury-vermont.com | montpelier-vermont.com | bennington-vermont.com | brattleboro-vermont.com | newyorkskiing.com | new yorkhiking.com | adirondackhiking.com | adirondackfishing.com | adirondackcamping.com | adirondackskiing.com | lakeplacidsports.com | lakeplacidskiing.com | saratogaspringsregion.com | saratogainns.com | saratogahotels.com | saratogaattractions.com | saratogaspringsdining.com | saratogaspringslodging.com| saratogaspringsrestaurants.com | saratogadirectory.
tickets are sold for 4 and 8 hour blocks.
lessons and equipment rental available.
discover garnet hill's spectacular lake and mountain view, distinctive accommodations, superb cuisine and outdoor fun.
the adirondack mountains have the largest, most  diverse trail system for snowmobiling in ny state.
make a left turn onto route 28 and then a right onto peaceful valley road.
in fact, when it comes to winter sports, there is more to see and do in the adirondacks that anywhere else on earth!!
at whiteface mountain, just outside  of lake placid, you'll find some of the best alpine skiing and snowboarding in  north america.
make a left onto peaceful valley road and continue 5 miles to gore mountain.
visitors and residents alike enjoy the many fine downhill and cross-country ski areas in the adirondacks.
with hundreds of miles of beautiful backcountry ski  trails, cross country skiers can pole their way from village to village  stopping along the way to sample delicious homecooked meals at many trailside  inns and bed and breakfast's.
we invite you to visitadirondack real estate.com handcrafted adirondack dog sleds adirondack rock & river guide service, inc. p. o. box 219 keene, ny 12942 phone: 518-576-2041 email: ed@rockandriver.com
lake placid is home to world-class skiing at  mount van hoevenberg, one of the most well known nordic ski centers in the  country and the jackrabbit trail system criss-crosses throughout the area.
we invite you to visit one of the largest and most comprehensive award winning travel networks in new york state & neighboring vermont .
in vermont skiiers  can choose from over seventeen major ski resorts including ascutney, bear  creek, bolton valley, bromley, burke ,jay peak, killington/pico, mad river  glen, middlebury snow bowl, mount snow, okemo, smugglers' notch, stowe,  stratton, sugarbush and suicide six.
looking for a second home in one of the top ski resorts in the country?
snowshoeing.com enjoy snowshoeing in the adirondacks!
biathlon.com click here adirondacks new york guide to sports, skiing, ski, snow, mountain  climbing, rock climbing, ski races, ski mountains, sleigh rides, snowmobiling,  hunting, fishing click here to visit u s ice fish the  premier guide to winter sports in the adirondacks and the lake champlain valley  of upstate new york and vermont featuring valuable tips and  techniques and essential backcountry information.
choose your visitor guide by clicking on any one of the links below!
follow route 30 south to paul smiths and pick up route 86.
child care and kid-ski programs available.
where else can a visitor  ride to the top of a 120 meter ski jump or hurdle down a refrigerated bobsled  track at 60 miles per hour!
from well groomed woodland tracks to lake bed riding -  regardless of your level of ability, snowmobiling fun can be found in the  adirondacks!click here for our snowmobile headquarters!
take exit 34 west, following route 9 north, then follow route 86 to whiteface mountain.
pick up i-81 north and follow to watertown.
open daily, monday through friday 9:30am-10:30pm, saturday and sunday 8:30am-6pm.
snowmobiling in the adirondacks!
snowmobiling in  the adirondacks!
facts base elevation: 1,200 feet summit elevation: 4,867 feet top lift elevation: 4,416 feet vertical drop: 3,350 feet (biggest in the east) skiable acreage: 211 acres cloudsplitter gondola: 7.5 minutes from the base to the top of little whiteface lifts: 10 trails: 67 snowmaking: 97% - does not include the slides terrain: one-third each of most difficult, more difficult, easiest half pipe: 425 feet, international fis specs hours: 8:30 am to 4 pm daily first opened: 1957 the slides: 35 acres (open conditions permitting) experts only operated by: new york state olympic regional directions; from new york city and new jersey take the ny state thruway (i-87) north to the adirondack northway (exit 24 in albany).
for advertising and editorial content, please contact rob grant; adirondacks.com reserves the right to reject, modify or cancel any advertising at its sole discretion.
new smyrna florida.com www.new-smyrna-beach-florida.com anna maria island guide.com anna maria fl.com anna-maria-island-florida.com anna-maria-island-rentals.com anna-maria-island-real-estate.com anna maria mls.com anna maria island beach rentals.com anna maria island photos.com anna maria property.com anna maria island mls.com anna maria island real estate agents.com
with two newly renovated lodges located in a secluded mountain valley (open to the general public as well as guided clients), we offer courses, private guiding and group instruction in the disciplines of rock climbing, ice climbing winter mountaineering, and hiking year round.
from north creek to lake placid, there are thousands of wonderfulcross country ski trails!
snowmobiling dog sledding |  ice fishing | rock climbing ice climbing | winter camping | ice skating |  snowshoeing | bobsledding luge | winter horseback riding the 1932 and 1980 winter olympic games have firmly established the  adirondacks, and specifically lake placid, as the premier winter sports capital  of the world.
for alpine skiers, the adirondacks and upstate new york boast over 30 ski mountains including gore mountain and whiteface mountain, offering the steepest vertical drop in the east.
visit daytona florida.com www.
where else can a visitor ride to the top of a 120 meter ski jump or hurdle down a refrigerated bobsled track at 60 miles per hour!
follow route 8 west for 11 miles.
new smyrna beach restaurants.com www.
for alpine skiers, the adirondacks and upstate  new york boast over 30 ski mountains including gore mountain and whiteface  mountain, offering the steepest vertical drop in the east.
cross country skiing vacations and listings of cross country ski lodges in north america.
click here to order photos of skiers in action at whiteface mt.
pick up route 9 north and follow it for two miles to route 73.
in the winter the adirondacks offer world class winter sports including  skiing , x-country , snowboarding  , hockey, snowmobiling , dog sledding , ice  fishing , ice climbing ,winter camping ,  skating , snowshoeing and bobsledding  .
for the entire family to enjoy the beautiful winter landscape throughout the  adirondack region.
in fact, when it comes to winter sports, there is more to see and  do in the adirondacks that anywhere else on earth!!
visitors and residents alike enjoy the many fine downhill and  cross-country ski areas in the adirondacks.
take route 86 east to whiteface mountain.
from montreal take route 15 south to champlain crossing, connecting with i-87 south.
weekends until the end of april elevations: base 1,500 feet; summit 3,600 feet vertical drop: 2,100 feet trails: 62 longest run: 2.9 miles snowfall: 150 inches per year skiable acres: 292 terrain: 10% beginner, 60% intermediate, 30% expert snowmaking: 95% coverage, water supply from the hudson river lifts: 9 total- new 8 passenger northwoods gondola, 2 quads, 1 highspeed triple (the adirondack express), 3 doubles, 2 surface lifts.
cross country skiing click here web guide to  cross country skiing.
garnet hill lodge is a four season adirondack inn / resort in the adirondacks of new york- a summer vacation destination and a complete cross countryskiing center in winter.
cross country skiing click here beautiful 'four seasons' waterfront compound ideal for family reunions, weddings, snow mobile groups & corporate retreats!
this website is owned and operated by adirondacks.com internet publishing group.
services: two lodges: main base lodge with dining, ski & snowboard school, mountain patrol, nursery, rental shop, accessory and clothing shop, lounge, administration, ticketing; saddle lodge at mid-mountain with food service.
new smyrna beach guide.com www.
for a comprehensive guide to new york ski resorts please visitwww.newyorkskiing.com
located directly on a main adirondack snowmobile route connecting to hundreds of miles of snowmobile trails throughout upstate new york.
take route 3 and follow it east to saranac lake, then follow route 86 east to whiteface mountain.
from toronto take 401 east to cornwall bridge.
43 broadway saranac lake, new york 12983 phone: 518-891-3745 fax: 518-891-3768 e-mail: adirondacks.com
traveling from the north take i-87 (the northway) to exit 26 (pottersville).
1,010 foot vertical drop, 21 trails (beginner, intermediate and expert), 60% snowmaking.