if you’re after an online address  search and/or driving directions visitwww.wises.co.nz for interactive new  zealand maps.
club ski areas are run by club members rather than by a company and slopes are less crowded.
this extensive visitor  information network offers free local knowledge and can help you with  reservations.
the bulk of runs in aski area are blue and they’re usually the busiest pistes.
ski racing new zealand www.skiracing.org.nz  responsible for the conduct of ski racing in new zealand.
aa highway reports and the latest metservice new zealand mountain forecasts are available daily from 7am.
skiing & snowboarding jeff the kiwi snow tips new zealand heli skiing new zealand ski areas
which new zealand ski area to choose?
new zealand ski season the new zealand ski season usually runs from june to october which means  that you can hit new zealand’sski areas when the snow in america and  europe is long melted.
the bulk of runs  in aski area are blue and they’re usually the busiest pistes.
finf out more ... for more information on new zealand skiing, including mountain  accommodation, mountain transport, activities and après-ski, check out www.brownbearski.co.nz.
you don’t have to be a member to ski on a new zealand club ski area – anyone is welcome!
disabled snowsports new zealand www.disabledsnowsports.org.nz supports people with disabilities, helping them to enjoy new zealand’s slopes and compete on them.
stays--home stays--lodges -holiday homes-holiday parks-hotel accommodation-self contained & serviced --apartments--cottages--motels--villasactivities-activities & attractions --adrenaline
you can find detailed weather reports onnew zealand ski areas and mountains on  www.metservice.com.
get prepped for new zealand’s ski season and check out fast facts on snowboarding and skiing new zealand.
new zealand snowsports instructors alliance www.nzsia.net training and certifying ski and snowboard instructors  since 1971.
black ski runs are amongst the most  difficult on a mountain and pretty steep.
it’s always handy to know certain things before hitting the slopes.
speed ski new zealand www.speedski.co.nz supporting the development of new zealand speed skiing.
calls  incur a per-minute charge.
governing body of new zealand freestyle and free-ride skiing.
double black =  experts only!
spring (september till november) is a good time for nz  skiing and snowboarding.
if you feel like a day off from skiing, the snowy peaks of new zealand’s mountains provide a great backdrop forwater activities or golfing in the winter sun.
to call fire, police or ambulance services in an emergency, dial 111.
pumping--air activities---ballooning---gliding---paragliding ---skydiving---flight-seeing---glacier flightseeing--arts, culture & heritage---arts & crafts (taonga)---cultural attractions---film & theatre---galleries---heritage attractions---maori culture---museums ---performing arts--attractions---aquariums & underwater observatories ---casinos---farm experiences---gardens---observatories---spa, thermal pools & health resorts---theme & leisure parks---urban & scenic attractions---volcanic & geothermal---wineries & breweries---zoos & wildlife parks--education---educational institutions---food & wine classes ---language classes--land activities---4wd---abseiling & rappelling---bungy ---caving---canyoning---climbing---cycling & mountain biking---glacier encounters---golf---heli-skiing---hiking & walking---horse treks---hunting ---luging---miscellaneous activities---mountaineering---sightseeing---skiing & snowboarding---zorbing--water activities---boat cruises---canyoning ---diving & snorkelling---fishing---jet boating---canoeing & kayaking ---punting---rafting---sailing---sledging---surfing--wildlife encounters---bird watching---dolphins---kiwi---other wildlife---penguins---seals---whale watching ---zoos & wildlife parks-sights--coastal highlights--gardens, parks & reserves--history & culture--islands--lakes & rivers--natural phenomena --scenic views--walks & trails-tours--4wd tours--adventure tours --backpacker tours--cultural tours--cycling tours--eco tours--educational tours --food & wine tours--independent tours--motorcycle tours--package tours --personal tours--sightseeing tours--special interest tours--travel planners --walking toursfood,wine-food & wine--bars & nightclubs--cafés & restaurants--grocery & gourmet food stores--wineries & breweries --produce markets-shopping--arts & crafts--fashion--food & wine --jewellery--markets--retail centres & department stores--souvenirs --specialty storesservices and business-childcare-hair & beauty-clubs & organisations-conventions & incentives--venues with accommodation--venues without accommodation--professional conference organisers--convention bureaux --convention related services--destination management--incentives-education -employment-event organisers-health & fitness-immigration-insurance & finance-internet services-miscellaneous services & business-photography -relocation & real estate-travel planners & booking service-visitor information services--i-site visitor information network --other visitor information-wedding servicestransport-air-vehicle sales-buses, coaches & shuttles-car rental-cruise ships-custom transfers-cycling-ferries, water taxis & cruises-motorcycles-motorhome rental-rail-taxis & limousines personal create your profile newsletters receive the latest updates from destination-nz.com travel planner save listings and events to your favourites share your favourites with others
establishments carrying the qualmark logo have been assessed as trustworthy and  professional, and all types of accommodation are rated on a star grading system  telling you exactly what to expect.
new zealand’s temperate climate means that you can enjoy a myriad of nz outdoor activities off the mountains even during peak ski season.
freeski association of new zealand http://www.facebook.com/pages/freeski-association-new-zealand/111225717937 governing body of new zealand freestyle and free-ride skiing.
new zealand mountain guides association www.nzmga.org.nz provides training to international federation of mountain guides (ifmga) standards in new zealand.
interested in mountain safety courses?
interactive share your travel experiences upload photos and write your own stories comment on our blogs get talking in our travel forum maps regional maps itineraries national north island south island themed distances distance charts browse and book online accommodation activities transport services my.destination-nz share travel information save listings and events to your favourites share your favourites with otherssign up now!
if you  feel like a day off from skiing, the snowy peaks of new zealand’s  mountains provide a great backdrop forwater activities or golfing in the winter  sun.
although most nz club ski areas have day lodges, t-bar lifts or rope tows, they  might not have snow grooming.
new zealand maps download destination-nz.com regional maps for free, or purchase detailed  regional maps atwww.terralink.co.nz.
new zealand ski runs are graded according to difficulty and marked with the colours green, blue and black.
ski runs colour coding new zealand ski runs are graded according to difficulty and marked with the  colours green, blue and black.
new zealand recipes new zealand is a good-value destination for a snowboard or ski holiday,  especially if you’re travelling to new zealand from the us, australia or  europe.
where to get weather information?
check out theregional pages for detailed information about new zealand  activities on offer.
new zealand visitor information whether you need information on new zealand’s mountains or general  travel information, the i-site visitor information centres, which you’ll  find all around new zealand, are there to help.
interested in mountain safety  courses?
enhancing safety in new zealand outdoor adventure activities.
disabled snowsports new  zealand www.disabledsnowsports.org.nz supports people with  disabilities, helping them to enjoy new zealand’s slopes and compete on  them.
a good base of snow combined with warmer air temperatures make for awesome spring skiing.
for an adult lift pass you pay at least nz$20 less than for an adult lift pass  on a commercial ski area.
black ski runs are amongst the most difficult on a mountain and pretty steep.
new zealand snowsports council www.snow.co.nz/snowsports
in terms of lift passes, a one-day  adult lift pass costs nz$70 to $99 at a commercial ski area or nz$40 to $70 at  a club field.
most club ski areas provide on-mountain ski accommodation, saving you  travelling up the mountain on a daily basis.
if you’re after an online address search and/or driving directions visitwww.wises.co.nz for interactive new zealand maps.
another option to get your weather updates is the metservice mobile service which sends either one-off or daily alerts, as well as mountain condition reports, right to your mobile.
new zealand snowsports instructors alliance www.nzsia.net training and certifying ski and snowboard instructors since 1971.
click on the ‘mountains & national parks –  ski fields’ link to find weather reports on each new zealand ski area  that are updated daily during the nz ski season.
enhancing safety in new zealand outdoor adventure  activities.
club fields are smaller but offer a more social atmosphere and conditions are still varied and exciting.
expect to pay around nz$15 to $45 for your après-ski main meal, nz$24 to $60 per day for full snowboard/ski hire and an average of nz$30 per day for full ski clothing hire on the mountain.
for a list of new zealand i-sites (and a printable map) visit www.i-site.org.
listing accommodation-backpackers-exclusive-guest & hosted--bed & breakfast--boutique accommodation --farm
calls incur a per-minute charge.
the metphone mountain & ski numbers to call are: central north island 0900 999 15, nelson lakes 0900 999 02, canterbury region 0900 999 26, southern lakes 0900 999 81.
new zealand snow sports organisations thinking of becoming a ski instructor?
new zealand mountain safety council www.mountainsafety.org.nz
here’s a list of great snow sports organisations: backcountry avalanche advisory www.avalanche.net.nz reports and news  on safety in the backcountry and avalanche dangers.
expect to pay around nz$15 to $45 for your après-ski main meal,  nz$24 to $60 per day for full snowboard/ski hire and an average of nz$30 per  day for full ski clothing hire on the mountain.
bloginside word ski & snowboard new zealand fast facts you are in: home ›  new zealand info › things to do in new zealand › skiing &  snowboarding › ski & snowboard new zealand fast facts which new zealand ski area to choose?
you can find detailed weather reports onnew zealand ski areas and mountains on www.metservice.com.
travelling in new zealand new zealand’s temperate climate means that you can enjoy a myriad of  nz outdoor activities off the mountains even during peak ski season.
login register the 2011 edition of our destination-nz.com visitor guide is here!
however, facilities are basic.
speed ski new zealand www.speedski.co.nz supporting the development of new zealand speed  skiing.
for more information on new zealand skiing, including mountain accommodation, mountain transport, activities and après-ski, check out www.brownbearski.co.nz.
green ski runs are usually groomed and wide and not too steep.
whether you need information on new zealand’s mountains or general travel information, the i-site visitor information centres, which you’ll find all around new zealand, are there to help.
the metphone mountain  & ski numbers to call are: central north island 0900 999 15, nelson lakes  0900 999 02, canterbury region 0900 999 26, southern lakes 0900 999 81.
ski accommodation ranges from budget accommodation with casual restaurants and backcountry huts with outdoor hot tubs with to ski lodges.
double black ski runs are exceptionally steep and have obstacles  such as trees or drop-offs.
if you’re not hooked up to the internet you can also call metphone mountain & ski info.
promotes snow sports as leisure activities for all  ages and abilities.
ski racing new zealand www.skiracing.org.nz responsible for the conduct of ski racing in new zealand.
looking for more information on professional snow sports in new  zealand?
how much will it cost?
thinking of becoming a ski instructor?
canterbury snowsports association www.skisouth.org.nz links and information for skiing at new zealand club ski areas.
a night’s accommodation starts at around nz$15 for a dorm bed in a hostel and rises to nz$300 (or more for the ultimate deluxe accommodation!).
looking for more information on professional snow sports in new zealand?
club ski areas are run by club members rather than by a company and slopes  are less crowded.
invaluable to new zealand travellers, particularly if you are wanting to travel independently and make your own plans.
new  zealand mountain guides association www.nzmga.org.nz provides training  to international federation of mountain guides (ifmga) standards in new zealand.
for an adult lift pass you pay at least nz$20 less than for an adult lift pass on a commercial ski area.
here’s a list of great snow sports organisations: backcountry avalanche advisory www.avalanche.net.nz reports and news on safety in the backcountry and avalanche dangers.
order now!sign up for newsletter
fine out more aboutnew zealand's ski areas.
the new zealand ski season usually runs from june to october which means that you can hit new zealand’sski areas when the snow in america and europe is long melted.
ph: +64 3 366 3340, email: mail@tmlpublishing.com, all rights reserved.
establishments carrying the qualmark logo have been assessed as trustworthy and professional, and all types of accommodation are rated on a star grading system telling you exactly what to expect.
club fields are smaller but offer a more social atmosphere  and conditions are still varied and exciting.
qualmark, new zealand tourism’s official mark of quality, is awarded to new zealandaccommodation and transport providers and nz activity operators.
check out theregional pages for detailed information about new zealand activities on offer.
get our free new zealand newsletter our partner sites: trade | forum | brown bear © 1997 - 2010 destination-nz.com.
snow  sports new zealand www.snowsports.co.nz the fis (international ski  federation) and new zealand olympic committee-recognised national sports  organisation representing snow sports in nz.
new zealand weather information before heading out to the mountains you should always check the weather.
the main drawcard of club ski areas is the price.
freeski association of new zealand http://www.facebook.com/pages/freeski-association-new-zealand/111225717937
download destination-nz.com regional maps for free, or purchase detailed regional maps atwww.terralink.co.nz.
although most nz club ski areas have day lodges, t-bar lifts or rope tows, they might not have snow grooming.
use the search box below to find travel operators by category or town.
club ski areas you don’t have to be a member to ski on a new zealand club ski area  – anyone is welcome!
to find out more about this service, go to the  about page, click 'sms texting' and 'txt4snow'.
canterbury  snowsports association www.skisouth.org.nz links and information for  skiing at new zealand club ski areas.
ski accommodation ranges from  budget accommodation with casual restaurants and backcountry huts with outdoor  hot tubs with to ski lodges.
most club ski areas provide on-mountain ski accommodation, saving you travelling up the mountain on a daily basis.
a night’s accommodation  starts at around nz$15 for a dorm bed in a hostel and rises to nz$300 (or more  for the ultimate deluxe accommodation!).
new zealand is a good-value destination for a snowboard or ski holiday, especially if you’re travelling to new zealand from the us, australia or europe.
this extensive visitor information network offers free local knowledge and can help you with reservations.
if you’re not hooked up to the internet you can also call metphone  mountain & ski info.
promotes snow sports as leisure activities for all ages and abilities.
overview planning your ski holiday ski & snowboard new zealand fast facts new zealand info
aa highway reports and the latest metservice new  zealand mountain forecasts are available daily from 7am.
check out what the different colours stand for: green =
a good base of snow combined with warmer air  temperatures make for awesome spring skiing.
get prepped for new zealand’s ski season and check  out fast facts on snowboarding and skiing new zealand.
green ski runs are usually groomed and wide  and not too steep.
in terms of lift passes, a one-day adult lift pass costs nz$70 to $99 at a commercial ski area or nz$40 to $70 at a club field.
click on the ‘mountains & national parks – ski fields’ link to find weather reports on each new zealand ski area that are updated daily during the nz ski season.
snow sports new zealand www.snowsports.co.nz the fis (international ski federation) and new zealand olympic committee-recognised national sports organisation representing snow sports in nz.
emergency services to call fire, police or ambulance services in an emergency, dial 111.
double black ski runs are exceptionally steep and have obstacles such as trees or drop-offs.
qualmark qualmark, new zealand tourism’s official mark of quality, is awarded  to new zealandaccommodation and transport providers and nz activity operators.
another option to get your weather updates is the metservice mobile service  which sends either one-off or daily alerts, as well as mountain condition  reports, right to your mobile.
spring (september till november) is a good time for nz skiing and snowboarding.
to find out more about this service, go to the about page, click 'sms texting' and 'txt4snow'.
it’s always handy to know certain things before  hitting the slopes.
before heading out to the mountains you should always check the weather.