we’ll grab some video* as coaches give you some tasks that will challenge you to ski or ride out of your comfort zone, while keeping things fun and safe.
12:00 break for lunch with the group – hot soup and sandwich is a great midday treat!
work on your skills and tactics for this terrain.
or, if your group wishes, stay on the groomed terrain  – this is your camp and the focus is on you!
all ofour camps include lift tickets, video analysis,  feedback on your personal skiing/riding, indoor equipment discussions,  breakfast & lunch, and lots of time on the snow with our certified  instructors.
9:15 – 12:00  jump in the gondola for some early morning turns!
let’s push it a little – no more  complacency – you’re ready to ramp it up!
how about a few runs on topridge or up on the summit?
a review of video is conducted during the weekend to see  how well you are skiing!
8:30-9:15  over breakfast of your choice, meet your ski or snowboard  group and determine your goals for the camp.
3:30 head to the tannery pub, have a drink, and celebrate your day!
maybe some synchronized carving to end the day – fun for all, skiing in someone else’s turn pattern and speed; adjusting your pace to keep the rhythm and flow.
well,  gore’s got glades – lots of them.
adult  camps                              rate        passholder rate 2-day  camp                               $216               $166 a sampling of your days: saturday, day 1 8:30  welcome!
let’s push it a little – no more complacency – you’re ready to ramp it up!
warm up with a few runs and get a few pointers for working on your balance – the key to great skiing and riding!
adult camps rate passholder rate 2-day camp $216 $166 saturday-only camp $130 $100 a sampling of your days: saturday, day 1 8:30 welcome!
sign in at the information desk in the base lodge.
8:30-9:15 over breakfast of your choice, meet your ski or snowboard group and determine your goals for the camp.
3:30  head to the tannery pub, have a drink, and celebrate your day!
this is a great camp for making more difficult terrain easier and easier terrain more challenging.
12:45–3:30  back out on the hill.
12:45–3:30 back out on the hill.
reservations preferred.
how about a few runs on  topridge or up on the summit?
9:15-12:00  on the snow!
9:15 – 12:00 jump in the gondola for some early morning turns!
sunday, day 2 8:30 check in with your group, grab some breakfast, and boot up to head out on the hill!
maybe some synchronized carving to end the day – fun for  all, skiing in someone else’s turn pattern and speed; adjusting your pace  to keep the rhythm and flow.
well, gore’s got glades – lots of them.
or, if your group wishes, stay on the groomed terrain – this is your camp and the focus is on you!
*video is usually taken on saturday, but subject to change due to weather  and visibility.
this could include overcoming fear of steep terrain, wanting to ski or ride faster, learning to ski or ride varied conditions, etc. 9:15-12:00 on the snow!
12:45–3:30  back out on the hill for more fun and more trails to  explore.
*video is usually taken on saturday, but subject to change due to weather and visibility.
all ofour camps include lift tickets, video analysis, feedback on your personal skiing/riding, indoor equipment discussions, breakfast & lunch, and lots of time on the snow with our certified instructors.
a review of video is conducted during the weekend to see how well you are skiing!
wonder what the hype is about getting in the trees?
this could include  overcoming fear of steep terrain, wanting to ski or ride faster, learning to  ski or ride varied conditions, etc.
12:00  break for lunch with the group – hot soup and sandwich is  a great midday treat!
3:30 celebrate your day with a wine & cheese party!
this is a great camp for making more difficult terrain easier  and easier terrain more challenging.
or try one of our adirondack salads!
sign up with 2 friends and get your camp 1/2 price!
date: 2/11/12 - 2/12/12
we’ll grab some video* as coaches give you some tasks that  will challenge you to ski or ride out of your comfort zone, while keeping  things fun and safe.
learn tactics for turning  through the trees.
learn tactics for turning through the trees.
sunday, day 2 8:30  check in with your group, grab some breakfast, and boot up to  head out on the hill!
find the skills needed to get you rippin' through the cruisers, steeps, glades, and parks.
sign up with 2 friends and get your camp 1/2  price!
3:30  celebrate your day with a wine & cheese party!
master the mountain - alpine skiing or snowboarding camps master the mountain - alpine skiing or snowboarding camps north creek find the skills needed to get you rippin' through the cruisers, steeps,  glades, and parks.
work on your skills and tactics for this  terrain.
12:45–3:30 back out on the hill for more fun and more trails to explore.
warm up with a few runs and get a few  pointers for working on your balance – the key to great skiing and  riding!