stroll an honest main street.
cut  figure eights at the ice rink.
but we're more than just a ski town.
we suggest the following...   winter in whitefish starts with downhill skiing.
getting there is easy, too.
whitefish mountain resort, glacier national park and the town of whitefishto please any skier.
return a friendly wave.
cut figure eights at the ice rink.
check out what other travelers say about whitefish on tripadvisor.
stroll an  honest main street.
snowshoe in skiing whitefish mountain resort the surrounding mountains.
enjoy one fine meal after  another.
enjoy  a romantic sleigh ride.
enjoy a romantic sleigh ride.
from here you can strike out on many paths- cross-country skiing in  glacier national park, snowshoeing or catskiing in the national forest, ice  skating on the lake or the rink, or gliding through the woods on a dogsled .
whitefish mountain resort at the edge of town offers abundant snow and terrain whitefish mountain resort, glacier national park and the town of  whitefish to please any skier.
when the snow flies, thoughts  in whitefish turn to whitefish mountain resort, the ski resort at the edge of  town.
skiing whitefish mountain
glide down groomed cross-country trails.
portland to whitefish romantic spring skiing  getaway don't show me again close x winter home › adventures › overview  skiing, snowboarding and so much more...
just hop the  free s.n.o.w. bus ( shuttle network of whitefish), which continuously shuttles  between whitefish and whitefish mountain resort.
but we're more than just a ski  town.
just hop the free s.n.o.w. bus ( shuttle network of whitefish), which continuously shuttles between whitefish and whitefish mountain resort.
explore a gallery or museum.
enjoy one fine meal after another.
from here you can strike out on many paths- cross-country skiing in glacier national park, snowshoeing or catskiing in the national forest, ice skating on the lake or the rink, or gliding through the woods on a dogsled .
resortthe surrounding mountains.
plunge into the backcountry on a dogsled.
everything you love about winter is in  whitefish, comfortably tucked under a magnificent blanket of snow.
everything you love about winter is in whitefish, comfortably tucked under a magnificent blanket of snow.
© 2008-2012 old town creative communications, llc & whitefish convention and visitor bureau.