home search site map community photos discussion board ______________ our stores donate amazon.com t-shirts ______________ why ride?
controlling a board was  more difficult than it is today, and combined with the risk-seeking attitude of  the early riders, made for an understandable reluctance on the part of ski  areas and many skiers.
this means that some people thought that riders were in fact "a bunch of reckless idiots."
liability concerns of course, early snowboarding equipment itself did not inspire  confidence in the safety of the sport, which fueled the resistance of some  insurance companies--and subsequently, ski areas.
from banning snowboarders altogether to wooing them with  terrain parks, the attitudes of ski resorts have changed dramatically over  time.
for their part, some snowboarders were afflicted by the proverbial chip on the shoulder.
explain how snowboarding works.
the purists claim the culture is being diluted and commodified  by corporations, while most others insist that the gains instilled by this  surge in popularity can only mean bigger and better things for snowboarding in  every regard.
the letter was published in january 2007--long after snowboards were introduced to the world.
so is being aware of and maintaining balance.
this  means that some people thought that riders were in fact "a bunch of  reckless idiots."
seeing the increased interesting in riding,  more and more areas opened up to snowboards.
over time, snowboarding has become  accepted within the ski industry and the broader society.
most ski areas forbad snowboarding, and some that permitted it required riders to pass a competency test.
it's not that they create a story where none exist (though, if you remember janet cooke and jason blair, that sometimes happens); rather, conflict sells stories, which in turns may increase the magnitude of the conflict in the public's mind.
call it wisdom through age or old-fashioned personal maturity, but grays on trays can play a role in promoting multiple uses of the slopes.
the snowboarding innovation was met with some  resistance, to put it mildly.
skilled skiers should have no problem dealing with this kind of behavior, but even they can be upset by it.
the origins of the conflict opposition to and wariness of snowboards, historically and today, comes from a number of sources, including a variety of fears.
remind skiers of business realities.
historically there has been some animosity  among skiers and snowboarders.
either claim rests on the assumption that snowboarding somehow makes the snow unskiable.
practice tighter turns.
in both activities, a person alternates between being parallel to the fall  line, perpendicular to it, and everywhere in between.
some of your skiing friends may be dismayed.
scanning the terrain as you go, looking for places to avoid--or seek out.
the letter was published in january 2007--long after snowboards  were introduced to the world.
"the instructor began talking about the x games and how snowboarding was an such ugly sport and that it was a good thing that they 'wear baggy clothes' to cover up the ugliness that is snowboarding.
if you come across such people, leave them alone.
how riding is like skiing regardless of what equipment you use, skiers and riders share similarities: - enjoying the outdoors, making the most of winter.
snowboarding made it "big" in media during the  1990s, as a backdrop to television commercials.
but otherwise, gently share your  enthusiasm and you'll be doing your part to promote the widest possible  enjoyment of the slopes.
using the edges is critical.
"the instructor began talking about the x games and how snowboarding was  an such ugly sport and that it was a good thing that they 'wear baggy clothes'  to cover up the ugliness that is snowboarding.
most riders, however, rejected this concern, and rightfully so.
seeing the increased interesting in riding, more and more areas opened up to snowboards.
this has also caused some animosity on the  part of some skiers, who cite the terrain features as proof that snowboarding  is taking away "their" slope.
changes to favorite skiing trails as snowboarding gained in  popularity, many areas put in tricks-oriented features (e.g., rails) to appeal  to freestyle-oriented snowboarders.
if  your skill and setup, as well as the terrain permits, make tight turns down the  fall line.
one of them even said, 'it's a  good thing there aren't any snowboarders in here' (the gondola).
features that we expect as standard of today--metal edges, secure bindings, and  specialized boots most notably--did not exist.
snowboarder-resistance the snowboarding innovation was met with some resistance, to put it mildly.
either claim rests on the  assumption that snowboarding somehow makes the snow unskiable.
most ski areas are profit-seeking operations; the initial ban (and subsequent attempts to actually attract snowboarders) was and is motivated by the desire to prosper, financially.
generation gap in its early years, snowboarding was owned by the teenager demographic.
at the margins, this can cause problems for some skiers.
some of the trails once used by the grays on trays publisher for skiing have been turned into terrain parks, for example.
controlling a board was more difficult than it is today, and combined with the risk-seeking attitude of the early riders, made for an understandable reluctance on the part of ski areas and many skiers.
the snowboard journal captured the situation well: "with over 7 million snowboarders in the united states alone, it has become much more than a lifestyle for a dedicated core of riders.
during the 2003-2004  season, for example, 30 percent of all lift tickets at resorts were sold to  snowboarders.
your first day concerns safety 101 safety 102 skiers v. riders ______________ basics faq glossary 101 glossary 102
accept the fact that some people still think this way, and do what you can to live down the reputation.
sometimes sharing how snowboarding works can help weaken hostility to riding.
skiers, for their part, often returned the favor ("young  punks").
from banning snowboarders altogether to wooing them with terrain parks, the attitudes of ski resorts have changed dramatically over time.
statistics ski areas ______________ about us we get letters the editor clips send us e-mail world class olympics winter x official privacy terms of use home riders v. skiers if you wish to join the "grays on trays" set, you may get a variety of reactions.
features that we expect as standard of today--metal edges, secure bindings, and specialized boots most notably--did not exist.
fear of physical safety the complaint that snowboarders go too fast, endangering the skier, also has a long history.
this fear was observed by snowboarding pioneer chris sanders, who noted in 1985 that some ski areas had come to accept that "we [snowboarders] aren't a bunch of reckless idiots."
copyright © 2003-09 john r. laplante grays on trays® is a registered trademark of john r. laplante .
skillful use of both forms of equipment involves linking turns.
balancing while in a stopped position is easier on two boards rather than  one.
this fear was observed by snowboarding  pioneer chris sanders, who noted in 1985 that some ski areas had come to accept  that "we [snowboarders] aren't a bunch of reckless idiots."
if you come  across such people, leave them alone.
return to  the home page.
in fact,the economist, the staid news magazine from london, noted the conflict in way back 1993, with its article "battle of the piste." humorist dave barry took a more lighthearted view of matters in 1995 when he summed up the conflict this way: "skiers view snowboarders as a menace; snowboarders view skiers as elmer fudd."
snowboarding not only has evolved into a legitimate sport, it also is a hobby for countless people throughout the world.
reflecting the rebel  portion of snowboarding's past, some snowboarders refused to participate in the  games, fearing that they would further erode what they saw as the spirit of the  sport.
one of them even said, 'it's a good thing there aren't any snowboarders in here' (the gondola).
they looked at  nancy, and ignored what they obviously knew, that she was indeed a  snowboarder."
it is easy to forget that when it comes to stopping, skiers have it  easy.
(it would help if riders, and skiers, would do their resting at the edge of trails.)
the fact that riders  tended to be younger (and hence more risk-accepting, or even risk-seeking) only  compounded this objection.
- so is being aware of and maintaining balance.
(it would help if  riders, and skiers, would do their resting at the edge of trails.)
remind  skiers that for-profit businesses do what they think will appeal to customers.
if your skiing friends applaud you for your courage at taking up a new sport, accept the compliment, and invite them to take a lesson.
one colorado  resident, for example, wrote into the aspen times about an incident involving a  friend of hers.
skiers also have poles available as a balance aid.
but otherwise, gently share your enthusiasm and you'll be doing your part to promote the widest possible enjoyment of the slopes.
it's  not that they create a story where none exist (though, if you remember janet  cooke and jason blair, that sometimes happens); rather, conflict sells stories,  which in turns may increase the magnitude of the conflict in the public's mind.
this early clash grew into  stereotypes on both sides, poisoning relations for years to come.
the origins of the conflict opposition to and wariness of snowboards,  historically and today, comes from a number of sources, including a variety of  fears.
use the same logic today.
oddly enough, skiers  sometimes lodge the contradictory complaint that snowboard riders "push  all the snow to the bottom of the hill."
according one  web site devoted to skiing andsnowboarding in france, under current law,  individuals who wish to teach snowboarding in france must first be certified as  ski instructors.
looking back, it is easy to  see how snowboards themselves could be seen as a dangerous piece of equipment.
if you explain this, a skier might better  understand what's going on, if not necessarily approve.
skiers, for their part, often returned the favor ("young punks").
here's one way to address this objection: next time you stop on the mountain near a group of skiers, be the first one to resume heading down the hill.
lowell hart (author of "the snowboard book"), reminds us that members  of the news media sell articles and attract viewers through controversy.
at the  margins, this can cause problems for some skiers.
the blog twitter feed facebook linkedin road trips skateboards industry gear vendors history
it also gained entrance into that most commercial of sporting events, the olympics.
by imposing an additional requirement on would-be instructors, france limits the ability of instructors from britain, germany, and other countries to compete against french instructors.
in short, snowboarding has gone from the countercultural lifestyle of a few to  something much bigger.
the snowboard journal captured the situation well:  "with over 7 million snowboarders in the united states alone, it has  become much more than a lifestyle for a dedicated core of riders.
in effect, snowboarding is going through growing pains, learning  how to deal with all the attention without losing sight of what drove most of  us to slide sideways down a mountain in the first place: sharing good times  with good friends, absolutely no rules except having fun."
this has also caused some animosity on the part of some skiers, who cite the terrain features as proof that snowboarding is taking away "their" slope.
over time, snowboarding has become accepted within the ski industry and the broader society.
regardless of what equipment you use,  skiers and riders share similarities: enjoying the outdoors, making the most of winter.
some  of the trails once used by the grays on trays publisher for skiing have been  turned into terrain parks, for example.
snowboarding  not only has evolved into a legitimate sport, it also is a hobby for countless  people throughout the world.…
given the widespread acceptance of snowboarding today, we see  this requirement--recently criticized by the european union--as a case of  protectionism.
how riding is like skiing
sometimes sharing how snowboarding  works can help weaken hostility to riding.
some skiers, for example, may complain that riders are always sitting down.
in fact,the economist, the staid news magazine  from london, noted the conflict in way back 1993, with its article "battle  of the piste." humorist dave barry took a more lighthearted view  of matters in 1995 when he summed up the conflict this way: "skiers view  snowboarders as a menace; snowboarders view skiers as elmer fudd."
- skillful use of both forms of equipment involves linking turns.
in this view, skiing emphasizes  social and natural ambiance over athletic challenge, and snowboarding, by  contrast, is dominated by an "adrenalin-rush" population that puts  traditional skiers at risk.
it also gained entrance into  that most commercial of sporting events, the olympics.
yet for various reasons (none good, that we know of), a few snowboarders think that's a bad thing.
return to the home page.
given those facts, then, riders are not lazy.
during the 2003-2004 season, for example, 30 percent of all lift tickets at resorts were sold to snowboarders.
practice a little kindness on  the slopes.
such rapid growth of acceptance can be  interpreted as either a boon or a bane to snowboarding, depending on one’s
take the compliment, and issue the invitation.
if you have any comments concerning skiing versus  snowboarding, stop by the grays on traysdiscussion board.
historically there has been some animosity among skiers and snowboarders.
even today, you may find pockets of resistance.
some skiers will remain hostile no matter what you do or say.
by imposing an additional requirement on would-be instructors,  france limits the ability of instructors from britain, germany, and other  countries to compete against french instructors.
given those facts,  then, riders are not lazy.
generation gap in its early  years, snowboarding was owned by the teenager demographic.
interacting with skiers while snowboarding is widely accepted, you can still do a few things to promote harmonious use of the mountains.
in this view, skiing emphasizes social and natural ambiance over athletic challenge, and snowboarding, by contrast, is dominated by an "adrenalin-rush" population that puts traditional skiers at risk.
- in both activities, a person alternates between being parallel to the fall line, perpendicular to it, and everywhere in between.
for their part, some  snowboarders were afflicted by the proverbial chip on the shoulder.
economic protectionism
if skiers grumble about snowboarders, recognize that they have legitimate  concerns, but point out that as snowboarding "grows up," its manners  improve.
accept the fact that some people still think this way,  and do what you can to live down the reputation.
snowboarder-resistance
discussion if you have any comments concerning skiing versus snowboarding, stop by the grays on traysdiscussion board.
it's not a question of  values or aesthetics, but simply business.
changes to favorite skiing trails as snowboarding gained in popularity, many areas put in tricks-oriented features (e.g., rails) to appeal to freestyle-oriented snowboarders.
the  got-to-be-different imperative of the adolescent years spilled over into an  "attitude" that looked less than fondly upon adults, who dominated  skiing.
look for other ways to show consideration.
take the  compliment, and issue the invitation.
most ski areas are profit-seeking operations; the initial ban (and  subsequent attempts to actually attract snowboarders) was and is motivated by  the desire to prosper, financially.
roughly 2,000 years ago, st. paul told  the early christians "if it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live  peaceably with all men."
yet for various  reasons (none good, that we know of), a few snowboarders think that's a bad  thing.
the purists claim the culture is being diluted and commodified by corporations, while most others insist that the gains instilled by this surge in popularity can only mean bigger and better things for snowboarding in every regard.
this early clash grew into stereotypes on both sides, poisoning relations for years to come.
skilled skiers should have no problem  dealing with this kind of behavior, but even they can be upset by it.
if skiers grumble about snowboarders, recognize that they have legitimate concerns, but point out that as snowboarding "grows up," its manners improve.
home riders v. skiers
- scanning the terrain as you go, looking for places to avoid--or seek out.
even though you should, by the responsibility  code of the mountain, have the right of way if you are further downhill than  someone else, some skiers get nervous seeing snowboarders riding from one far  side of the trail to the other.
take special care to stay far away from beginning skiers.
as a result, they were at odds with skiing's reputation as a sport of sophistication.
some of your skiing friends may be  dismayed.
for the longest time, snowboarders agitated to get access to the slopes.
given the widespread acceptance of snowboarding today, we see this requirement--recently criticized by the european union--as a case of protectionism.
happily, snowboarding is now a sport for all ages.
even though you should, by the responsibility code of the mountain, have the right of way if you are further downhill than someone else, some skiers get nervous seeing snowboarders riding from one far side of the trail to the other.
media sensationalism news reports may have played a part as well.
while many skiers have made their peace with riders, some skiers see the two sports as fueled by two incompatible impulses.
lowell hart (author of "the snowboard book"), reminds us that members of the news media sell articles and attract viewers through controversy.
call it  wisdom through age or old-fashioned personal maturity, but grays on trays can  play a role in promoting multiple uses of the slopes.
the friend, she relates, was in the gondola (presumably at ajax) with a ski instructor and some of his students.
some skiers, for example, may  complain that riders are always sitting down.
while many skiers have made their peace with riders, some skiers see the two  sports as fueled by two incompatible impulses.
as a result, they were at odds with  skiing's reputation as a sport of sophistication.
it's not a question of values or aesthetics, but simply business.
- using the edges is critical.
if you wish to join the "grays on trays"  set, you may get a variety of reactions.
most people will recognize that.
looking back, it is easy to see how snowboards themselves could be seen as a dangerous piece of equipment.
balancing while in a stopped position is easier on two boards rather than one.
copyright © 2003-09 john r. laplante grays on  trays® is a registered trademark of john r. laplante .
culture clash many of the early riders, especially in california, came from a skateboarding culture and thus did not have a knowledge or history of ski etiquette.
snowboarding is increasingly  important to the financial health of snow sports areas.
if your skiing friends applaud  you for your courage at taking up a new sport, accept the compliment, and  invite them to take a lesson.
most ski areas forbad snowboarding, and some that  permitted it required riders to pass a competency test.
but  today, you can count on one hand the number of u.s. ski areas that do not  permit snowboards.
using lifts get ready get fit take lessons gear 101 gear 102 travel checklist get better styles of riding know your level progression competitions our faves books magazines videos links ______________ want more?
liability concerns of course, early snowboarding equipment itself did not inspire confidence in the safety of the sport, which fueled the resistance of some insurance companies--and subsequently, ski areas.
if you explain this, a skier might better understand what's going on, if not necessarily approve.
and in some case, it has.
some of the resistance to snowboarding--and conversely, today's embrace of it--comes down to dollars and cents.
if a skier falls and suffers a "yard sale" the equipment goes scattered far away), stop and pick up a ski or pole, if you are within a location that allows you to do this.
the got-to-be-different imperative of the adolescent years spilled over into an "attitude" that looked less than fondly upon adults, who dominated skiing.
such rapid growth of acceptance can be interpreted as either a boon or a bane to snowboarding, depending on ones point of view.
"are they just lazy?"
if your skill and setup, as well as the terrain permits, make tight turns down the fall line.
according one web site devoted to skiing andsnowboarding in france, under current law, individuals who wish to teach snowboarding in france must first be certified as ski instructors.
it is easy to forget that when it comes to stopping, skiers have it easy.
making the snow unskiable other objections (then and now) to snowboarding stem from the fear that snowboards would create ruts (especially in groomed snow) and thus disrupt skiing.
interacting with skiers while snowboarding is widely accepted, you  can still do a few things to promote harmonious use of the mountains.
one colorado resident, for example, wrote into the aspen times about an incident involving a friend of hers.
reflecting the rebel portion of snowboarding's past, some snowboarders refused to participate in the games, fearing that they would further erode what they saw as the spirit of the sport.
acknowledge skier grievances.
oddly enough, skiers sometimes lodge the contradictory complaint that snowboard riders "push all the snow to the bottom of the hill."
grays speak profiles of grays expect this
but today, you can count on one hand the number of u.s. ski areas that do not permit snowboards.
the gentle back-and-forth as you shift from heelside to toeside, and back, will give the skiers a chance to see how graceful riding on a board can be.
in this case, it means making room for snowboarders.
while attitudes are changing and skiers and riders are mixing it up, a short history lesson may be useful.
remind skiers that for-profit businesses do what they think will appeal to customers.
the friend, she relates, was in the  gondola (presumably at ajax) with a ski instructor and some of his students.
while attitudes are changing and skiers and riders are mixing it up, a short  history lesson may be useful.
they looked at nancy, and ignored what they obviously knew, that she was indeed a snowboarder."
fear of physical safety the complaint that snowboarders go  too fast, endangering the skier, also has a long history.
acceptability: good or bad?
the gentle back-and-forth as you shift from heelside to toeside, and  back, will give the skiers a chance to see how graceful riding on a board can  be.
if a skier falls and suffers a "yard sale" the equipment  goes scattered far away), stop and pick up a ski or pole, if you are within a  location that allows you to do this.
roughly 2,000 years ago, st. paul told the early christians "if it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men."
why did such attitudes persist, even if in much  less frequency than in years past?
snowboarding made it "big" in media during the 1990s, as a backdrop to television commercials.
in short, snowboarding has gone from the countercultural lifestyle of a few to something much bigger.
culture clash many of the early riders, especially  in california, came from a skateboarding culture and thus did not have a  knowledge or history of ski etiquette.
practice a little kindness on the slopes.
snowboarding is increasingly important to the financial health of snow sports areas.
making the snow unskiable other  objections (then and now) to snowboarding stem from the fear that snowboards  would create ruts (especially in groomed snow) and thus disrupt skiing.
here's one way to address this objection: next time you stop on the mountain  near a group of skiers, be the first one to resume heading down the hill.
take special care to stay far away from  beginning skiers.
some of the resistance to snowboarding--and conversely, today's embrace of  it--comes down to dollars and cents.
the fact that riders tended to be younger (and hence more risk-accepting, or even risk-seeking) only compounded this objection.
why did such attitudes persist, even if in much less frequency than in years past?
demonstrate on-slope manners.
in effect, snowboarding is going through growing pains, learning how to deal with all the attention without losing sight of what drove most of us to slide sideways down a mountain in the first place: sharing good times with good friends, absolutely no rules except having fun."