ski holidays in claviere suitable for families+ there is no non-ski  nursery facility provided in resort although one operator does run its own  crèche for children aged from six months and children's ski school from  age four.
alternatively the local scuola sci clavière offers lessons for children also from age four, and snowboarding from age seven.
although most of the terrain in the area is rated  intermediate there are a few steep blacks and some excellent off piste  opportunities to explore.
other activities and facilities at claviere+ there's not much to do  off the slopes in claviere besides enjoy a good meal with a nice bottle of  wine.
abta bonded travel agent no l9364.
most points of the milky way are  accessible within a day but do check on piste/lift openings and conditions  before you set out and be careful to leave enough time to catch the last lift  back at the end of the day.
claviere's significance goes back for thousands of years before the ski lifts were built however.
now: 0800 044 3523 - contact us - site map - faqs - how do i book - customer service our phone lines on 0800 044 3523 are open 8.30am - 10.00pm monday - saturday; 9.00am - 10.00pm on sunday (uk time).
if you stay locally you'll find the  majority of slopes around claviere - more than two thirds in fact - are graded  red/intermediate and offer descents of up to six kilometres (four miles).
jan any february 13 --> sun 3rd feb -->
sun 10th feb --> sun 17th feb --> sun 24th
snowboarding at claviere+ claviere's high speed lifts make it easy  to get up on to the slopes where there is a lot of exciting natural freeriding  terrain.
heliskiing is also popular in the area  with several 3000m+ drop off points.
outdoor alternatives include a natural ice rink, winter climbing with a  guide and the chance to go cross-country skiing across the border in to france.
the col boeuf quad accesses the high speed black back down in to the village.
any north east any london any scottish any north west birmingham bournemouth bristol doncaster gatwick glasgow manchester newcastle stansted - departure date any date any march 12 --> sun 4th mar --> sun 11th mar --> sun 18th mar --> sun 25th
the col boeuf quad accesses the high speed black back  down in to the village.
alternatively the local scuola sci clavière offers lessons for  children also from age four, and snowboarding from age seven.
the  milky way pass links half a dozen italian resorts over the border that claviere  sits upon, to montgenevre, the only french resort on the pass.
claviere is also one of italy and europe's highest traditional ski resorts making it relatively snowsure, particularly with north facing slopes and two thirds of the local runs covered by snow making.
claviere's significance goes back for thousands of years  before the ski lifts were built however.
prices are also about a third less than in some of the larger resorts in the  alps.
special  all inclusive packages with tuition, lift ticket and rentals for an inclusive  price are available.
surprisingly perhaps however, there is no resort on the whole circuit that aims to build a half pipe each winter.
for a wider selection walk  or take a bus or taxi over to montgenevre, a few kilometres over the border in  to france.
feb 12 last snowed: 8th feb 12 fresh snow depth: 40cm depth at resort: 80cm mountain depth: 120cm piste state: excellent (great on piste conditions, tracked out off piste)
sales@fasttrackski.co.uk mon to sat: 8.30am - 10.00pm sun: 9.00am - 10.00pm - - ski destinations - andorra - austria - bulgaria - canada - finland - france - italy - japan - norway - romania - serbia - slovenia - spain - sweden - switzerland - usa - - ski holiday guides - cheap ski holidays - group ski holidays - single ski holidays - santa claus holidays - skiing before christmas - christmas ski holidays - new year ski holidays - easter ski holidays - popular ski resorts - ski operators - ski holiday accommodation - ski chalet holidays - snow reports - - ski deals - ski holiday search - newsletter subscription - fast track ski twitter - - about fast track ski - terms & conditions - privacy policy - holiday extras can't find what you're looking for?
or head over to sestriere to tackle the olympic downhill runs.
closest to home is a mini park in the sagnalonga area.
hannibal made his famous crossing of the alps with elephants through the local moncenisio pass and julius caesar also passed through in 58 b.c en route from rome to geneva.
our ski experts will be happy to help.
hannibal made his famous crossing of  the alps with elephants through the local moncenisio pass and julius caesar  also passed through in 58 b.c en route from rome to geneva.
although most of the terrain in the area is rated intermediate there are a few steep blacks and some excellent off piste opportunities to explore.
most  of the italian resorts, including: sauze d'oulx, sestriere and sansicario were  hosts to the majority of events at the 2006 turin winter olympics, and  benefited from investment in new lifts and many other improvements ahead of the  games.
surprisingly perhaps  however, there is no resort on the whole circuit that aims to build a half pipe  each winter.
despite this long history however it has not grown much and remains a small, compact ski centre, albeit in a key location within one of the world's largest ski areas - the milky way pass (or via - snow conditions in claviere italy + snow report issued: 13th
please read our terms & conditions and privacy policy of sale carefully before booking.
after his journey  he decided to build the first road through the area which is the basis for the  current road today.
dec any january 13 --> sun 6th jan --> sun 13th
- other activities and facilities at claviere+ there's not much to do off the slopes in claviere besides enjoy a good meal with a nice bottle of wine.
matterhorn ski paradise -> monte rosa -> milky way -> aosta valley -> dolomites --> arabba --> bardonecchia --> canazei --> cervinia --> champoluc --> claviere --> cortina -->
jan --> sun 20th jan -->
£570 - hotels - miramonti fr.
mar - board basis any board basis catered chalet half board - duration any duration 7 nights 14 nights - number of people any group size 1 person 2 people 3 people 4 people 5 people 6 people 7 people 8 people 9 people 10 people 11 people
mountain guides will take you to any of the  many off-piste itineraries in the area, such as the back route from  montgenervre via the col de l'alpet.
or head over to sestriere to tackle the  olympic downhill runs.
special all inclusive packages with tuition, lift ticket and rentals for an inclusive price are available.
the milky way gives a great feeling of exploration and excitement as you can ski on from one village to the next.
all holidays listed on this web site are subject to availability at the time of booking.
despite this long history however it has not grown much and remains a  small, compact ski centre, albeit in a key location within one of the world's  largest ski areas - the milky way pass (or via lattea to give it its  italian title).
accommodation in claviere club hotel claviere fr.
you will have to travel a little way on your board to reach one of the  major terrain parks on the milky way pass at montgenevre or sestriere.
- ski holidays in claviere suitable for families+ there is no non-ski nursery facility provided in resort although one operator does run its own crèche for children aged from six months and children's ski school from age four.
you will have to travel a little way on your board to reach one of the major terrain parks on the milky way pass at montgenevre or sestriere.
helmet wearing for children 12 and under is obligatory in italy and these can be rented locally.
should the holiday you have requested not be available our travel consultant will offer you an alternative.
claviere is also one of italy and europe's highest  traditional ski resorts making it relatively snowsure, particularly with north  facing slopes and two thirds of the local runs covered by snow making.
mar --> sun 17th mar --> sun 24th mar --> sun 31st
- skiing for beginners+ there are nursery slopes right by the resort centre which, thanks to its altitude, are normally open all season long.
- ski holiday guides - snowboarding - newsletter - ski news - blog - snow reports - powderhound new - andorra - austria - bulgaria - canada - finland - france - italy - japan - norway - romania - serbia - slovenia - spain - sweden - switzerland - usa call free: 0800 044 3523 or email:
weather report: light clouds dotting the sky temperature: -9°c open lifts: 35 of 45 viewclaviere snow history - claviere resort statistics+ slope direction n w very easy runs 7 easy runs 54 medium runs 118 difficult runs 42 toughest run name kandahar banchetta skiable vertical 1466m number of lifts 80 top lift height 2840m night skiing n snowboarding parks 4 half pipes 0 swimming pools 1 night clubs 1 mountain restaurants 30 - claviere piste map+ - claviere transfer times+ torino: 1 hour and 44 minutes milano_mxp: 3 hours and 50 minutes lattea to give it its italian title).
normally lively venues include disco pub murphy's  igloo and the gallo cedrone's karaoke bar.
after his journey he decided to build the first road through the area which is the basis for the current road today.
most of the italian resorts, including: sauze d'oulx, sestriere and sansicario were hosts to the majority of events at the 2006 turin winter olympics, and benefited from investment in new lifts and many other improvements ahead of the games.
the milky way pass links half a dozen italian resorts over the border that claviere sits upon, to montgenevre, the only french resort on the pass.
for a wider selection walk or take a bus or taxi over to montgenevre, a few kilometres over the border in to france.
learn-to-ski and learn-to-board packages including lessons, equipment and lift pass are available, saving time and money on buying these elements separately.
- intermediate skiing+
most points of the milky way are accessible within a day but do check on piste/lift openings and conditions before you set out and be careful to leave enough time to catch the last lift back at the end of the day.
gran bouc has a reputation for the best food and wine in resort.
by  the end of a week it is usually possible to ski over in to france.
learn-to-ski and learn-to-board packages including lessons, equipment and lift  pass are available, saving time and money on buying these elements separately.
heliskiing is also popular in the area with several 3000m+ drop off points.
outdoor alternatives include a natural ice rink, winter climbing with a guide and the chance to go cross-country skiing across the border in to france.
corvara --> courmayeur --> folgarida --> gressoney --> la thuile --> les orres --> livigno --> madonna di campiglio --> ortisei --> passo tonale --> pila --> sansicario --> sauze d`oulx --> selva --> sestriere --> st cristina --> val di fassa - airport any airport
apr any december 12 --> sun 16th dec --> sun 23rd dec --> sun 30th
- snowboarding at claviere+ claviere's high speed lifts make it easy to get up on to the slopes where there is a lot of exciting natural freeriding terrain.
intermediate skiing+ the milky way gives a great feeling of  exploration and excitement as you can ski on from one village to the next.
heading further in to italy the lifts pass above cesana, the lowest resort in  the area, before climbing up to 2006 olympic biathlon centre sansicario and on  to sestriere or sauze d'oulx.
in the other direction montgenevre in  france is just a few kilometres away via red piste number 99 (you no longer  need a passport to ski over the border).
heading further in to italy the lifts pass above cesana, the lowest resort in the area, before climbing up to 2006 olympic biathlon centre sansicario and on to sestriere or sauze d'oulx.
accommodation in claviere - chalets - club hotel claviere fr.
saving you money on your ski holiday ski holidays in claviere, italy suitable for: ski holidays in claviere - beginners | - intermediates | - advanced | - boarders | - family friendly | - glacier | - height | 1350m quick links - ski holidays to claviere - ski holidays to italy - home / - ski destinations / - italy / - claviere claviere claims to be italy's oldest ski centre, with more than a century of winter sports under its belt.
along with a small selection of essential shops there is an amusement arcade.
in the other direction montgenevre in france is just a few kilometres away via red piste number 99 (you no longer need a passport to ski over the border).
gran bouc has  a reputation for the best food and wine in resort.
helmet wearing for children 12 and under is obligatory in  italy and these can be rented locally.
normally lively venues include disco pub murphy's igloo and the gallo cedrone's karaoke bar.
apres ski and dining out+ claviere is a small, usually quiet resort  with about a dozen bars and restaurants, virtually all within the family run  hotels along the main street.
mountain guides will take you to any of the many off-piste itineraries in the area, such as the back route from montgenervre via the col de l'alpet.
any midlands any south coast any south west
any march 13 --> sun 3rd mar --> sun 10th
skiing for beginners+ there are nursery slopes right by the resort  centre which, thanks to its altitude, are normally open all season long.
once  the basics are mastered there's a selection of blue runs on which to progress  and then on to longer runs, including those served by the coche chairlift.
along with a small selection of essential shops there is an amusement  arcade.
mar any april 12 --> sun 1st
once the basics are mastered there's a selection of blue runs on which to progress and then on to longer runs, including those served by the coche chairlift.
£485 claviere skiing price list - march 2012 £485 - april 2012 £869 - december 2012 £569 - january 2013 £545 - february 2013 £549 - march 2013 £549 - christmas 2012 £709 - new year 2012 - 2013 £875 - half term 2013 £849 other ski resorts in italy arabba £359 bardonecchia £209 canazei £485 cervinia £405 champoluc £559 cortina £619 corvara £1094 courmayeur £320 folgarida £629 gressoney £504 la thuile £285 les orres £224 livigno £289 madonna di campiglio £439 ortisei £634 passo tonale £239 pila £519 sansicario £424 sauze d`oulx £245 selva £440 sestriere £259 st cristina £545 val di fassa £439 cheap ski holidays to claviere - club hotel claviere, claviere 04/03/12 - newcastle - 7nts £570 - miramonti, claviere 18/03/12 - gatwick - 7nts £485 - miramonti, claviere 18/03/12 - gatwick - 7nts £485 - club hotel claviere, claviere 04/03/12 - bournemouth - 7nts £580 - club hotel claviere, claviere 04/03/12 - bournemouth - 7nts £580 - home - ski deals - groups - ski resorts
prices are also about a third less than in some of the larger resorts in the alps.
if you stay locally you'll find the majority of slopes around claviere - more than two thirds in fact - are graded red/intermediate and offer descents of up to six kilometres (four miles).
dining options are similarly limited and hotel based.
reset - country any country italy - resort any resort italy ->
torino: 1 hour and 44 minutes milano_mxp: 3 hours and 50 minutes claviere claims to be  italy's oldest ski centre, with more than a century of winter sports under its  belt.
- apres ski and dining out+ claviere is a small, usually quiet resort with about a dozen bars and restaurants, virtually all within the family run hotels along the main street.
by the end of a week it is usually possible to ski over in to france.