chaperone  $10 sunday upgrade program school program pass participants may add sunday to their school  program lift access.
you may purchase a lift ticket at the single trip rate.
disregard for safety  rules may result in the loss of lift privileges.
chaperone responsibilities: • assist advisor with collecting money and distributing passes and  lift tickets • assist students with rental equipment •  encourage students to take lessons (chaperones are invited to  take lessons too!)
students are allowed to use loki triple and crystal clipper lifts.
read more on spring fling > 1.
our certified snowsports pros offer classes for students of  all ability levels thru january and select dates in february.
they may  ski on green and blue runs.
observe signs and warnings and keep off closed trails.
participants have the opportunity to improve their skiing or snowboarding skills and have fun with their family and friends while on the slopes.
you may  purchase a lift ticket at the single trip rate.
the use of rental equipment is available for an additional cost.
they may snowboard on green runs.
use devices to help  prevent runaway equipment.
•  students who wish to improve their skills or gain access to  more difficult terrain will need to attend additional lessons and clinics.
it is recommended that students attend additional lessons at their current level before making attempts at higher levels of proficiency.
level 4: advanced – white sticker students at this level demonstrate controlled, linked heel and toe side turns and stops on black runs.
proficiency  stickers •  each season all students are required to attend a skill review  on their first trip to crystal mountain.
pre-ski:  novice - pink sticker students at this level demonstrate  knowledge of a controlled wedge, turns or stops.
thermal underwear • hat, goggles, neck  gaiter, helmet crystal kids gear up program is a  ski/snowboard equipment trade-in/trade-up program that helps parents ensure  that their child has proper-fitting equipment each season without spending an  arm & a leg.
students are allowed to use the crystal carpets at totem park and loki triple  lift for access to emmy and nason’s trail only.
monitor student activity on slopes and lifts • promote the skier responsibility code • address discipline problems that occur on all crystal mountain property show your school program pass, ski/ride all day at the single trip rate.
they also show  ability to use the crystal carpets at totem park and chairlifts safely.
level 2: advanced beginner - green sticker students at this  level demonstrate controlled stops, and turns in both directions on green runs.
terrain park – orange sticker students at this level demonstrate knowledge of terrain park etiquette and safe use of terrain park features.
they may ski on green runs.
chaperone responsibilities: • assist advisor with collecting money and distributing passes and lift tickets • assist students with rental equipment • encourage students to take lessons (chaperones are invited to take lessons too!)
level 3:  intermediate – blue sticker students at this level  demonstrate controlled, linked heel and toe side turns and stops on blue runs.
people ahead of you have the right of  way.
they need practice  on suitable terrain, show ability to use crystal carpets safely, and are  allowed to use the crystal carpets at totem park only.
level 4: advanced – white sticker students at this level demonstrate controlled, linked heel and toe side  turns and stops on black runs.
they need practice on suitable terrain, show ability to use the crystal carpets safely, and are allowed to use the crystal carpets at totem park only.
parents are invited to participate in the school program with their children.
level 2: advanced beginner - green sticker students at this level demonstrate controlled stops and turns in both directions on green runs.
skier proficiency levels skiers must demonstrate a controlled stop before using any  chairlifts.
pass is non-transferable and is the responsibility of the passholder.
students must pass level 4 sticker before attempting this level.
our certified snowsports pros are available each evening to provide instruction and coaching for skiers and boarders of all skill levels.
one pair of wool or synthetic socks (cotton is not warm  when wet) •
checklist students will be more comfortable and have more fun if they are warm and dry.
they may snowboard on green, blue and black runs.
discounts available in the  clipper café, show your school program pass or lift ticket.
intermediate – blue sticker students at this level demonstrate controlled, linked heel and toe side turns and stops on blue runs.
• single trip lift ticket entitles participants to instruction and lift access on the night of their group’s visit.
when starting downhill or merging, look uphill & yield.
level 3: intermediate - blue sticker students at this level demonstrate controlled, linked, beginning parallel turns and stops on blue runs.
•  students are expected to  ski or snowboard safely and within their ability levels!
pass is non-transferable and is the responsibility of the  passholder.
• pre-paid pass for those who would like to visit the slopes regularly throughout the winter season.
crystal mountain offers special lift access and rental rates to parents or guardians of students who are registered in the program.
single trip ticket • nightly rates for those who do not wish to purchase a pass, but  would like to ski or snowboard with their group a few times during the season.
they may ski  on green runs.
use devices to help prevent runaway equipment.
the school program lesson program is intended to teach  safety, help students improve their skiing & snowboarding skills and to  prepare them for the next level of proficiency.
when starting  downhill or merging, look uphill & yield.
it is recommended that students attend  additional lessons at their current level before making attempts at higher  levels of proficiency.
pre-board: novice pink sticker students at this level demonstrate  knowledge of controlled stops and turns in both directions.
they must also show ability to use the crystal carpets at totem park and chairlifts safely.
level  1: beginner – yellow sticker students at this level  demonstrate controlled stops and turns in both directions.
participants are offered special rates for lift access and rental equipment.
the use of  rental equipment is available for an additional cost.
2003 schoolprogram@crystalmountain.com
• students are expected to ski or snowboard safely and within their ability levels!
rental equipment is not  included in this offer, but may be purchased at posted single trip rates.
participation in lessons & clinics allows students the opportunity to  have more fun and enjoy the slopes safely while improving their skiing and  snowboarding skills.
level 1: beginner – yellow sticker students at this level demonstrate controlled stops and turns in both directions.
students are allowed to use loki triple and crystal  clipper lifts.
(see program rates above)
this sticker  indicates which lifts and slopes each student will be permitted to use.
parents who  are interested in helping with chaperone responsibilities should contact their  group’s advisor.
snowboard lessons  are not recommended for ages 6 & under.
level  1: beginner skier - yellow sticker students at this level  demonstrate a controlled wedge, linked wedge turns and stops.
absolutely no refunds on this program.
skiers must demonstrate a controlled stop before using any chairlifts.
level 2: advanced beginner - green sticker students at this level demonstrate controlled stops, and turns in both directions on green runs.
the purchase of a school program pass or single trip lift ticket entitles  students to participate in an instructional program designed specifically for  them.
monitor student activity on slopes and  lifts • promote the skier responsibility code •
snowboarders must demonstrate a controlled stop before using any  chairlifts.
the school program lesson program is intended to teach safety, help students improve their skiing & snowboarding skills and to prepare them for the next level of proficiency.
terrain park - orange sticker students at this level demonstrate knowledge of terrain park etiquette and safe use of terrain park and halfpipe features.
excludes sunday, jan.15 & sunday, feb. 19, 2012.
observe signs and warnings and keep off  closed trails.
students must pass level 4 before attempting this level.
• single trip lift ticket entitles participants to instruction and  lift access on the night of their group’s visit.
always stay in control.
pass entitles participants to instruction & lift access on their group’s designated weekly evening only.
school program pass • pre-paid pass for those who would like to visit the slopes regularly  throughout the winter season.
any passholder found transferring their pass to another individual  will have their pass revoked.
students ages 5-18 participate in an instructional program designed specifically for them.
new stickers will be issued to students when they demonstrate appropriate levels of proficiency.
terrain park  – orange sticker students at this level demonstrate  knowledge of terrain park etiquette and safe use of terrain park features.
disregard for safety rules may result in the loss of lift privileges.
pre-board: novice pink sticker students at this level demonstrate knowledge of controlled stops and turns in both directions.
each season all students are required to attend a skill review on their first trip to crystal mountain.
this sticker indicates which lifts and slopes each student will be permitted to use.
this exciting program allows school program participants  to ski on select sundays after 1pm.
simply add the upgrade to your total and  show your upgraded school pass at the ticket counter on select sundays to  receive your free 1pm-to-close lift ticket.
they may ski on green and blue runs.
they may snowboard on green runs.
• nightly rates for those who do not wish to purchase a pass, but would like to ski or snowboard with their group a few times during the season.
they must also  show ability to use the crystal carpets at  totem park and chairlifts  safely.
spring fling march 24, 2012 show your school program pass, ski/ride all day at the single trip rate.
• $20 replacement fee  for lost passes.
they need practice on suitable terrain, show ability to use crystal carpets safely, and are allowed to use the crystal carpets at totem park only.
snowboarders must demonstrate a controlled stop before using any chairlifts.
they also show ability to use the crystal carpets at totem park and chairlifts safely.
students are allowed to use all lifts and may ski on green, blue and black runs.
more > parents & chaperones parents are invited to participate in the school program with their  children.
crystal mountain offers special lift access and rental rates to  parents or guardians of students who are registered in the program.
it is recommended that they have the following gear: • water  repellant jacket and snow pants (no jeans or sweatpants) • waterproof, insulated gloves or mittens (mittens are warmer)
school program supervisor (231) 378-2000 ext.
level 4: advanced - white sticker students at this level demonstrate controlled, linked, open  parallel turns and stops on black runs.
our snowsports pros will evaluate each student’s skills and issue them a “proficiency sticker” for their pass or lift ticket.
pass entitles participants to  instruction & lift access on their group’s designated weekly evening  only.
terrain park -  orange sticker students at this level demonstrate knowledge of  terrain park etiquette and safe use of terrain park and halfpipe features.
they need practice on  suitable terrain, show ability to use the crystal carpets safely, and are  allowed to use the crystal carpets at totem park only.
advanced beginner - green sticker students at this level demonstrate controlled stops and turns in both  directions on green runs.
students are allowed to use all lifts.
(see program rates  above) lesson & clinic participation
snowboard lessons are not recommended for ages 6 & under.
the use of rental equipment for the season is available for an additional cost.(see program rates above) •
the crystal mountain school program offers students a chance to experience winter sports that can be enjoyed for a lifetime.
they may snowboard on green and  blue runs.
parents who are interested in helping with chaperone responsibilities should contact their group’s advisor.
the purchase of a school program pass or single trip lift ticket entitles students to participate in an instructional program designed specifically for them.
experienced  skiers or snowboarders can learn the skills needed to move on to more  challenging terrain.
they  may snowboard on green, blue and black runs.
they may snowboard on green and blue runs.
address  discipline problems that occur on all crystal mountain property meal deal
for more information
stop in a safe area for you and others.
level 3: intermediate - blue sticker students at this level demonstrate controlled, linked, beginning parallel  turns and stops on blue runs.
students, ages 5-6, may participate in ski lessons, however they must be accompanied by a skiing adult.
read more on spring  fling > your responsibility code 1.
• $20 replacement fee for lost passes.
people ahead of you have the right of way.
the use of rental equipment for the season is  available for an additional cost.(see program rates above) •  absolutely no refunds on this program.
participation in lessons & clinics allows students the opportunity to have more fun and enjoy the slopes safely while improving their skiing and snowboarding skills.
know how to use the lifts safely.
students are allowed to use all lifts  and may ski on green, blue and black runs.
students are allowed to use the crystal carpets at totem park and loki triple chair lift for access to emmy and nason’s trail only.
•  new stickers will be issued to students when they demonstrate  appropriate levels of proficiency.
experienced skiers or snowboarders can learn the skills needed to move on to more challenging terrain.
level 4: advanced - white sticker students at this level demonstrate controlled, linked, open parallel turns and stops on black runs.
• students who wish to improve their skills or gain access to more difficult terrain will need to attend additional lessons and clinics.
students must pass level 4 sticker before attempting this level.
open to all school program participants.
level 1: beginner skier - yellow sticker students at this level demonstrate a controlled wedge, linked wedge turns and stops.
students are allowed to use the crystal carpets at totem park and loki triple lift for access to emmy and nason’s trail only.
•  our snowsports  pros will evaluate each student’s skills and issue them a  “proficiency sticker” for their pass or lift ticket.
students, ages 5-6, may participate in ski  lessons, however they must be accompanied by a skiing adult.
students  who are new to skiing or snowboarding will be introduced to the basics of the  sport while learning to stop, turn and use chairlifts safely.
our certified snowsports pros offer classes for students of all ability levels thru january and select dates in february.
any passholder found transferring their pass to another individual will have their pass revoked.
students are allowed to use the crystal carpets at totem park and loki  triple chair lift for access to emmy and nason’s trail only.
pre-ski: novice - pink sticker students at this level demonstrate knowledge of a controlled wedge, turns or stops.
students who are new to skiing or snowboarding will be introduced to the basics of the sport while learning to stop, turn and use chairlifts safely.