you should minimize tension  or twist up at the waist, and your upper body should align with the angle of  your feet.
many peel off layers when snowboarding, then replace those layers when stopping to rest and rehydrate.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider reaches behind the front leg with the front hand and grabs the heel edge between the bindings while the front leg is boned.
grabbing the snowboard with both hands  on an aerial maneuver.
any two-hand handplant.
the athletes who did not qualify in the first run do a second qualifying run.
just remember — you have to learn to walk  before you run.
an aerial move in which the rider goes up fakie (backwards) and lands going forward, thus not rotating.
the winners of the two semifinals race for the gold medal.
an aerial maneuver in which the snowboarder  rotates 540 degrees — one and a half spins.
just as in ice skating, you have to learn how to balance your weight to scrape the snow/ice just enough to stop but not so much that you upset your position and fall.
aviemore, great britain, notes: finished 2001 #3 in halfpipe world cup standings women: parallel slalom top u.s. athletes name: rosey fletcher, dob: 11/30/75, hometown: girdwood, ak., notes: finished 2001 #3 in parallel slalom world cup standings name: sondra van ert, dob: 3/9/64, hometown: ketchum, id., notes: finished 2001 #23 in parallel slalom world cup standings name: lisa d. kosglow, dob: 10/18/73, hometown: boulder, col., notes: finished 2001 #28 in parallel slalom world cup standings top world athletes top world athletes name: carmen ranigler (italy), dob: 8/17/76, hometown: levante, italy, notes: finished 2001 #1 in parallel slalom world cup standings name: karine ruby (france), dob: 4/1/78, hometown: chamonix, france, notes: finished 2001 #2 in parallel slalom world cup standings name: margherita parini (italy), dob: 1/9/72, hometown: aosta, italy, notes: finished 2001 #4 in parallel slalom world cup standings snowboarding fast facts who can do it (by age groups)?
it's sometimes  said that "snowboarding is hard to learn but easy to master, and skiing is  easy to learn but hard to master."
a technique in which one knee is bent and the ankle is bent sideways to touch the knee to the snowboard between the bindings.
pay special attention to protecting feet, hands, face and head.
an inner layer close to the skin.
you should minimize tension or twist up at the waist, and your upper body should align with the angle of your feet.
an imaginary line that combines the steepest pitch and most direct line, from top to bottom, of any slope.
a middle layer of wool or wool-like synthetic fabric to absorb  sweat and retain insulation !
an inverted aerial in which the rider  approaches the wall of the halfpipe riding backwards.
the trailing hand closest to the tail of the snowboard.
the side of the snowboard on which the athlete's heels rest; the side of the snowboard to which the athlete's back faces.
equipment required muscles used most physical attributes required common injuries calories burned per hour (estimate for range of 110-200 lbs)
the edge of the snowboard on which the toes rest.
a halfpipe trick where the athlete begins a  fakie (or backwards), rotates 360 degrees and lands riding forward.
classes exist for all ages and styles, from the free rider, who just wants to whoosh down the hill, to the freestyle artist, who wants to perform the dangerous jumps to thrill the audience below.
snowboarding requires more balance than  skiing in the beginning.
your choice may depend on  whether you are left- or right-handed.
the parallel giant slalom is a series of one-on-one battles.
a trick in which the rider is airborne and upside-down.
you'll need to keep the upper body in somewhat of an alignment with the lower body.
you'll quickly discover which side is more comfortable for  you.
next, strap your front leading foot onto the board.
synthetic materials such as supplex and coolmax are ideal because they keep you warm and dry.
any aerial in which both legs are bones (straightened) and a grab is done.
named after skateboarder mike mcgill.
at the lip of the  halfpipe, the rider flips backwards into the pipe and rotates 720 degrees,  landing forward down in the pipe.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider grads the heel edge between the bindings with the rear hand and the rear leg is straightened.
the halfpipe is judged on rotations, amplitude and overall impression.
technically, a frontside air is an aerial performed on the frontside wall with an indy grab.
an invert in which the halfpipe wall is  approached riding forward, the front hand is planted, a 360-degree frontside  rotation is made, and the rider lands riding fakie (or backwards).
a maneuver in which the rider places the front hand on the lip of the halfpipe and rotates 180 degrees in the frontside direction.
an aerial maneuver in which the snowboarder rotates 720 degrees two full spins.
footgear should be insulated to protect against cold and  dampness.
before going out on the snow, you might consider "dry land training" practicing with the snowboard on a carpet indoors to help you become oriented and introduce you to the proper primary body alignment.
a technique in which one knee is bent and the  ankle is bent sideways to touch the knee to the snowboard between the bindings.
[figure skating] [cross country skiing] [downhill skiing] [snowboarding] [ice hockey] history
an aerial maneuver in which the snowboarder rotates 900 degrees two and a half spins.
stopping a snowboard is much like coming to a stop on ice skates bring both feet perpendicular to the slope, then scrape to a stop.
snowboarding requires more balance than skiing in the beginning.
pace yourself, and commit to keep trying to learn snowboarding for  at least three days.
since there are risks involved with sports,  before going snowboarding, be sure to consult these links, which offer basic  information about getting in shape and protecting yourself from cold-related  stress and illness: getting in shape for winter sports safety tips: cold related stress and illness wearing the right clothing
canada and europe also have many  resorts featuring winter sports.
the type of snowboarding that  includes tricks; halfpipe is a type of freestyle snowboarding.
no matter how snowboarding got started, there's no doubt it's a native-born american sport, one that has taken the world by storm.
the "snurfer," as it was called when it debuted a year later, is said by some to be the world's first production snowboard.
for the halfpipe, a wide flexible board;  for the parallel giant slalom, a stiff, narrower board to allow for turns and  high speed.
an aerial move in which the rider goes up fakie  (backwards) and lands going forward, thus not rotating.
to reduce wind resistance, the  clothing should fit snugly to the body.
try to maintain an even keel in the snow without catching the front or back end of your board in the snow.
freestyle boards have greater base-edge bevels than an alpine board;  however, alpine boards have greater edge bevels.
before going out on the snow, you might consider "dry land  training" — practicing with the snowboard on a carpet indoors to help  you become oriented and introduce you to the proper primary body alignment.
it's sometimes said that "snowboarding is hard to learn but easy to master, and skiing is easy to learn but hard to master."
getting in shape for snowboarding watching olympic athletes often motivates people to want to try  their hand at a new sport or reclaim a sport from the past.
some resorts keep their  slopes snow-covered with snow machines.
"indy" also can be used to describe the location of the grab.
a halfpipe trick where the athlete begins a fakie (or backwards), rotates 360 degrees and lands riding forward.
in the finals, each competitor contests two runs.
for the semifinals, the matchups take place as follows: semifinal 1: winner of race 9 vs. winner of race 12, semifinal 2: winner of race 10 vs. winner of race 11.
turns are made by leaning forwards or backward and from side to side, using the toe edge (front) and the heel edge (back) of the board for steering and speed control.
footgear should be insulated to protect against cold and dampness.
dress in layers, wearing warm,  waterproof/resistant clothing.
if a snowboarder rides straight down the  halfpipe, the side of the halfpipe that is behind the rider.
any maneuver in which you bone your front leg and "poke" the nose of the snowboard in a direction away from your body.
wearing the right clothing is extremely important when participating in cold weather sports.
up to 40 percent of body heat can be lost when the head is exposed.
frontside handplant.
an inverted aerial in which the snowboarder performs a 540-degree flip.
getting in shape safety tips clothing equipment snowboarding basics where to go snowboarding glossary resources credits/references information on this sport's history, olympic history and events, and the sports terms and glossary has been provided bywww.nbcolympics.com andwww.olympics.com.
an invert in which the halfpipe wall is  approached fakie, the rear hand is planted, a 360-degree backside rotation is  made, and the rider lands going forward.
an invert in which the athlete approaches the halfpipe wall riding fakie (backwards), plants the rear hand on the lip of the halfpipe while doing a front flip, and lands in the transition area riding forward.
performing a trick while riding backwards when the maneuver is performed exactly like it would be if you were riding forward.
an aerial maneuver in which the athlete reaches behind the front foot and grabs the toe edge between the bindings with the front hand.
freestyle boards have greater base-edge bevels than an alpine board; however, alpine boards have greater edge bevels.
learning snowboarding can be humbling but fun.
snowboarding is usually done on the snowy slopes and hills of ski resorts.
it is named after skateboarding guru steve caballero.
boots designed for use in freestyle and freeride snowboarding.
any trick in the halfpipe in which a rider  approaches the wall riding forward, no rotation is made, and the rider lands  riding backwards.
rolling down the windows.
then our information is for you!
an invert in which the athlete plants the front  hand on the wall, rotates 540 degrees in a backside direction and lands riding  forward.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider grabs  the nose of the snowboard.
just remember you have to learn to walk before you run.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider grabs  the heel edge with the front hand, bends both knees, and pulls to the level of  the head.
riding a snowboard with the right foot  forward.
rotating counter-clockwise for a  regular-footed snowboarder or rotating clockwise for a goofy-footed snowboarder.
to reduce wind resistance, the clothing should fit snugly to the body.
keep your expecta- tions realistic the first day or two.
the top portion of the wall in a halfpipe that  allows the snowboard to fly straight up in the air.
an aerial maneuver in which the snowboard rotates  180 degrees — a half of a spin.
many new riders find it disconcerting to travel facing the trees or the side of the slope while going down the mountain, but after a few gentle turns and twists you'll be thrilled as you gingerly pick up speed and enjoy the powder under your feet.
turns are made by leaning forwards or backward and from  side to side, using the toe edge (front) and the heel edge (back) of the board  for steering and speed control.
named for its originator, mike michaelchuck,  an invert done on the backside wall of the halfpipe in which the rider does a  backflip with a 180-degree backside rotation.
it's important to keep moisture away from your skin avoid cotton, which clings to perspiration.
of course you'll  want to check snow conditions at your chosen location.
in 1994, snowboarding became an officially sanctioned discipline, eligible for the olympics.
an aerial maneuver in which the snowboarder performs a 180-degree flip.
snowboarding at the olympics
you can call your travel agent or search the  internet (search under "snowboarding") for packages and special  travel fares.
rotating clockwise for a regular-footed  snowboarder or rotating counter-clockwise for a goofy-footed snowboarder.
tricks performed on a flat slope.
for the halfpipe, most participants use  soft boots with foot and ankle support and lace-up inner boots; for the  parallel giant slalom, you'll need alpine boots with a hard plastic exterior  for extensive foot and ankle support, similar to alpine ski boots.
your choice may depend on whether you are left- or right-handed.
the top six men and top six women from this run advance to the finals.
a snowboard stance in which the toes point outward.
a trick in which the head is beneath the level of the board and the snowboarder balances on one or two hands.
an invert done on the frontside wall of a halfpipe in which the rider does a front flip with a 180-degree rotation frontside.
a binding system in which hard boots are attached to the snowboard by a flat plate similar to ski bindings.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider grabs the toe edge in front of the front foot with the front hand and the back leg is straightened while the board points perpendicular to the ground.
the front knee is then bent to touch the board.
an inverted aerial in which the rider approaches the wall of the halfpipe riding backwards.
the angle to which the edges of the snowboard are tuned.
the athlete approaches the halfpipe wall riding  forward, goes airborne, rotates 540 degrees in a backside direction while  performing a front flip, and lands riding forward.
an inverted aerial in which the athlete plants  the front hand on the wall, rotates 900 degrees in a backside direction and  lands riding forward.
an invert in which the halfpipe wall is approached riding forward, the front hand is planted, a 360-degree frontside rotation is made, and the rider lands riding fakie (or backwards).
to slide along the ground solely on the nose  of the snowboard.
for the halfpipe, most participants use soft boots with foot and ankle support and lace-up inner boots; for the parallel giant slalom, you'll need alpine boots with a hard plastic exterior for extensive foot and ankle support, similar to alpine ski boots.
some "boarders" can do it either way.
the boots designed for parallel giant slalom  and the other alpine events.
the foot mounted closest to the tail of the snowboard.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider  grads the heel edge between the bindings with the rear hand and the rear leg is  straightened.
an aerial maneuver in which the upper torso  and lower body are twisted in opposite directions and then returned to normal.
there are two parts of each competition: the qualifying run and the head-to-head portion.
the pipe is generally 3 to 4 meters deep and 110 meters long with an 85-degree pitch and high vertical walls on each side.
to switch from riding fakie (backwards) to forward, or from forward to fakie.
in the united states, winter resortsare plentiful in the northeastern, mid-atlantic and western states.
the men race one side of the parallel course and the women race the other.
an invert in which the halfpipe wall is approached fakie, the rear hand is planted, a 360-degree backside rotation is made, and the rider lands going forward.
then you'll start to gain confidence and feel more control.
to slide along the ground solely on the nose of the snowboard.
the hand closest to the front of the snowboard.
the angle to which the edges of the snowboard are  tuned.
once you are comfortable with momentum and controlling speed, it  becomes easier to balance.
be prepared to fall more than a few times while learning this skill.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider grabs the toe edge with his front hand either between the bindings or at the front of the board.
the top six men and the top six women from the first run advance directly to the finals.
[safety tips] [schedule] [winter sports]
the united states held its first national championships in 1982 and hosted the first world championships in 1983.
a method to obtain air without jumping.
getting in shape for snowboarding watching olympic athletes often motivates people to want to try their hand at a new sport or reclaim a sport from the past.
in the united states, winter resortsare plentiful in the  northeastern, mid-atlantic and western states.
snowboarding websites united states ski & snowboard association usa snowboard association u.s. deaf ski &  snowboard association valueseek - snowboarding tips
the competitors are ranked according to their best score of the two runs.
you'll quickly discover which side is more comfortable for you.
an aerial trick in which the athlete reaches  behind the front leg with his front hand and grabs the heel edge between the  bindings.
at the olympics schedule snowboarders to watch fast facts snowboarding and you!
there are four snowboard events at the olympics: men's halfpipe, women's halfpipe, men's parallel giant slalom and women's parallel giant slalom.
stopping a snowboard is much like coming to a  stop on ice skates — bring both feet perpendicular to the slope, then  scrape to a stop.
an invert done on the frontside wall of a  halfpipe in which the rider does a front flip with a 180-degree rotation  frontside.
to straighten out one or both legs.
search our site main | help | contact | other resources | privacy | physical activity matters | the active life | fit kids | about pcpfs | president´s challenge | presidential sports award
the  goal is an efficient foundation/stance.
if a snowboarder rides straight down the halfpipe, the side of the halfpipe that is in front of the rider.
since there are risks involved with sports, before going snowboarding, be sure to consult these links, which offer basic information about getting in shape and protecting yourself from cold-related stress and illness:
the side of the snowboard on which the athlete's  heels rest; the side of the snowboard to which the athlete's back faces.
your toes will inch over the edge of the board a bit, your heel against the toes of the other foot as you balance precariously for a second or two.
an aerial maneuver in which the snowboarder  rotates 720 degrees — two full spins.
any trick in the halfpipe in which a rider approaches the wall riding forward, no rotation is made, and the rider lands riding backwards.
rotating clockwise for a regular-footed snowboarder or rotating counter-clockwise for a goofy-footed snowboarder.
the area in the halfpipe between the two walls.
it is  performed by first lifting the front foot, then lifting the rear foot as the  rider springs off the tail.
wear at least three layers of clothing !
performing a trick while riding backwards  when the maneuver is performed exactly like it would be if you were riding  forward.
clothing for snowboarding should protect the participant from cold, wind, and precipitation and should also provide ventilation be "breathable."
a water-resistant outer layer to break the wind and allow some ventilation (nylon or other water-resistant synthetic fabric) !
an aerial maneuver in which the snowboarder  rotates 900 degrees — two and a half spins.
hitting an object while riding a snowboard.
the curved surface of the halfpipe walls between the flat section and the vertical portion of the wall.
a aerial maneuver in which the rear  hand reaches between the leg and grabs the heel edge between the bindings while  the front is straightened.
an inverted aerial in which the athlete plants the front hand on the wall, rotates 900 degrees in a backside direction and lands riding forward.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider grabs the  toe edge in between the feet with his front hand and the front knee is pulled  to the board.
any maneuver in the halfpipe in which the rider rotates 180 degrees or more in the uphill direction.
a maneuver in which the rider places  the front hand on the lip of the halfpipe and rotates 180 degrees in the  frontside direction.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider grabs the heel edge with his front hand and leans over the nose of the board.
some states have snowboarding available at  park and recreation areas.
an aerial maneuver in which the athlete  grabs the heel edge behind the rear leg in between with the rear hand, while  the rear leg is boned (straightened).
pace yourself, and commit to keep trying to learn snowboarding for at least three days.
are you in good general health?
technically, a frontside air is an aerial  performed on the frontside wall with an indy grab.
it is a 900-degree mctwist.
the  president's council on physical fitness and sports encourages participation in  a wide variety of activities, including the sports of the winter olympics, to  enhance health and fitness.
snowboarding websites united states ski & snowboard association usa snowboard association u.s. deaf ski & snowboard association valueseek - snowboarding tips nbc olympics.com msnbc - olympics cbs sportsline - snowboarding usa today - olympics salt lake 2002 united states olympic committee international olympic committee references snowboarding by robert reichenfeld and anna bruechert lodge photo courtesy of freefoto.com.
it is performed by first lifting the front foot, then lifting the rear foot as the rider springs off the tail.
make sure you're facing forward, hands in front; keep your weight low and your knees bent.
named for its originator, mike michaelchuck, an invert done on the backside wall of the halfpipe in which the rider does a backflip with a 180-degree backside rotation.
snowboarding competition began in the 1980s.
opportunities to enjoy snowboarding are available at many winter resorts and ski areas.
it's important to keep  moisture away from your skin — avoid cotton, which clings to perspiration.
the athlete performs a mute grab with the front  hand while the back leg is boned (straightened) and the board is kept parallel  to the ground.
to ride perpendicular to the fall line; to ride  across the halfpipe.
a one-handed 180-degree backside rotated invert in which the front hand is planted on the lip of the halfpipe wall.
a trick in which the head is beneath the level of  the board and the snowboarder balances on one or two hands.
the measure of the circle's radius to  which the sidecut of the snowboard corresponds.
any maneuver in which you bone your front  leg and "poke" the nose of the snowboard in a direction away from  your body.
dress in layers, wearing warm, waterproof/resistant clothing.
a small radius will make for tighter turning than a large radius.
wearing multiple layers of varying thickness allows you to regulate your body temperature.
at the lip of the halfpipe, the rider flips backwards into the pipe and rotates 720 degrees, landing forward down in the pipe.
it is made up of two walls of the same height and  size and a transition area in between.
short for caballerial.
it is performed by first lifting the rear foot, then lifting the front foot as the rider springs off the nose.
following the qualifying runs, the course is reset.
parallel giant slalom an exciting version of alpine snowboarding, the parallel giant slalom features head-to-head match ups on the mountain.
a hard plastic helmet is essential to prevent head  injuries; helmets manufactured for ski sports are required for snowboarding  competition.
men: halfpipe top u.s. athletes name: tommy czeshin, dob: 6/15/79, hometown: mammoth lakes, ca, notes: finished 2001 #6 in halfpipe world cup standings name: ross powers, dob: 2/10/79, hometown: s. londonderry, vt, notes: finished 2001 #29 in halfpipe world cup standings name: rob kingwill, dob: 6/25/75, hometown: jackson, wy, notes: finished 2001 #33 in halfpipe world cup standings top world athletes name: magnus sterner (sweden), dob: 10/1/79, hometown: leksand, sweden, notes: finished 2001 #1 in halfpipe world cup standings name: stefan karlsson (sweden), dob: 3/26/81, hometown: falun, sweden, notes: finished 2001 #2 in halfpipe world cup standings name: jan michaelis (germany), dob: 1/15/78, hometown: munich, germany, notes: finished 2001 #3 in halfpipe world cup standings men: parallel slalom top u.s. athletes name: christopher j. klug, dob: 11/18/72, hometown: aspen, col., notes: finished 2001 #11 in parallel slalom world cup standings name: jeff greenwood, dob: 5/15/75, hometown: grandby, conn., notes: finished 2001 #21 in parallel slalom world cup standings name: anton pogue, dob: 6/20/68, hometown: hood river, ore., notes: finished 2001 #30 in parallel slalom world cup standings top world athletes top world athletes name: mathieu bozzetto (france), dob: 11/16/73, hometown: val d'isere, france, notes: finished 2001 #1 in parallel slalom world cup standings name: nicolas huet (france), dob: n/a, hometown: france, notes: finished 2001 #2 in parallel slalom world cup standings name: richard rikardsson (sweden), dob: 1/74, hometown: undersaker, sweden, notes: finished 2001 #3 in parallel slalom world cup standings women: halfpipe top u.s. athletes name: kelly clark, dob: 7/26/83, hometown: mount snow, vt., notes: finished 2001 #10 in halfpipe world cup standings name: gretchen bleiler, dob: 4/10/81, hometown: snowmass village, col., notes: finished 2001 #15 in halfpipe world cup standings name: tricia byrnes, dob: 11/18/74, hometown: stratton mountain, vt., notes: finished 2001 #21 in halfpipe world cup standings top world athletes name: sabine wehrhasler (germany), dob: 7/8/67, hometown: offenbach, germany, notes: finished 2001 #1 in halfpipe world cup standings name: stine b. kjeldaas (norway), dob: 4/23/75, hometown: norway, notes: finished 2001 #2 in halfpipe world cup standings name: lesley mckenna (great britain), dob: 8/9/74, hometown:
named for its originator, shawn palmer, an aerial maneuver in which the board is grabbed near the nose and pulled across the front of the body, and the nose is pointed downward.
for the halfpipe, a wide flexible board; for the parallel giant slalom, a stiff, narrower board to allow for turns and high speed.
a maneuver where the rider places both hands or the rear hand on the rim of the halfpipe and rotates 180 degrees in the backside direction.
wearing multiple layers of varying thickness allows you to regulate your  body temperature.
an aerial maneuver in which the snowboard rotates 180 degrees a half of a spin.
clothing for snowboarding should protect the  participant from cold, wind, and precipitation and should also provide  ventilation — be "breathable."
an aerial maneuver in which the rider grabs the  toe edge with his front hand either between the bindings or at the front of the  board.
any aerial in which both legs are bones  (straightened) and a grab is done.
an imaginary line that combines the steepest  pitch and most direct line, from top to bottom, of any slope.
others credit snowboarding's origins to creative efforts by surfers and skateboarders to adapt their activities, techniques and equipment to winter recreation over the last few decades
to slide along the ground solely on the tail  of the snowboard.
the boots are stiff and provide good support.
the type of snowboarding that includes tricks; halfpipe is a type of freestyle snowboarding.
the halfpipe competition takes place in a half-cylinder-shaped course dug deep into the hill.
performing two separate grab tricks on one  aerial.
they are made soft and pliable to allow a large range of  motion.
a type of snowboard used in freestyle.
an aerial maneuver in which the athlete grabs the heel edge behind the rear leg in between with the rear hand, while the rear leg is boned (straightened).
any trick performed on or near the lip of the  wall.
all athletes compete in the first run.
wearing the right clothing is extremely important when  participating in cold weather  sports.
any rotation in which the snowboarder has oriented himself "blind" to his takeoff or landing and must stretch to look over his shoulder.
an aerial maneuver performed in the backside direction with the rear hand grabbing the board between the bindings.
an aerial trick in which the athlete reaches behind the front leg with his front hand and grabs the heel edge between the bindings.
any maneuver in which you bone (straighten) your rear leg and "poke" the tail of the snowboard in a direction away from the body.
the front leg is usually straightened.
the front tip of the snowboard.
when you're ready to head for the snow, the best way to get started is to sign up for snowboarding lessons at a ski resort.
the athlete approaches the wall of the halfpipe  riding forward and lands riding forward.
keep your expecta- tions realistic the first day or  two.
the goal is an efficient foundation/stance.
any maneuver in which you bone (straighten)  your rear leg and "poke" the tail of the snowboard in a direction  away from the body.
snowboarding glossary air to fakie.
similar to rollerblading, the back of your board will slow you down if you press it into the snow.
a maneuver where the rider places both  hands or the rear hand on the rim of the halfpipe and rotates 180 degrees in  the backside direction.
getting in shape for winter sports safety tips: cold related stress and illness wearing the right clothing
the object of the halfpipe is to perform difficult tricks with perfect form.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider  reaches behind the front leg with the front hand and grabs the heel edge  between the bindings while the front leg is boned.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider reaches across the body with the front hand and grabs the tail while the front leg is straightened.
in 1987, a fourstop world cup tour was established, with two stops in the united states and two in europe.
activities to help get/stay in shape all ages (suitable for children and youth) board boots helmet warm, layered clothing goggles/sun glasses sunscreen lip balm water for hydrating legs trunk cardiovascular endurance flexibility balance strength broken bones and other injuries from falls and collisions sprains hamstring/ quadricep strain cramps frostbite hypothermia altitude sickness recreational: 250-630 competitive racing: 700-1260 off season: walking hiking running swimming circuit/weight training in season: warm-up, endurance exercises with strength training on off days, cool down snowboarding and you!
the rear tip of the snowboard.
it is  performed by first lifting the rear foot, then lifting the front foot as the  rider springs off the nose.
to slide along the ground solely on the tail of the snowboard.
a slang term for transition.
named for its originator, mike jacoby, an invert  in which the athlete rotates roughly 540 degrees in a frontside direction while  planting one or both hands on the lip of the wall.
an invert in which the rider rotates while flipping.
you'll need to keep the  upper body in somewhat of an alignment with the lower body.
be prepared to fall more than a few times while learning this  skill.
a handplant using the rear hand while grabbing  the board with the other (front) hand.
named for its originator, mike jacoby, an invert in which the athlete rotates roughly 540 degrees in a frontside direction while planting one or both hands on the lip of the wall.
classes exist  for all ages and styles, from the free rider, who just wants to whoosh down the  hill, to the freestyle artist, who wants to perform the dangerous jumps to  thrill the audience below.
the top 16 athletes from the qualifying round advance to the head-to-head portion of the competition.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider grabs the heel edge with the front hand, bends both knees, and pulls to the level of the head.
check the olympics schedule for dates and times of men´s and women´s halfpipe and parallel giant slalom
a water-resistant outer layer to break the wind and allow some  ventilation (nylon or other water-resistant synthetic fabric) !
snowboarding is usually done on the snowy slopes and hills of ski  resorts.
freestyle snowboarding.
the foot closest to the front of the snowboard.
it is made up of two walls of the same height and size and a transition area in between.
using speed gained on the slope, snowboarders come up over the rim of the pipe and perform acrobatic aerial tricks.
the president's council on physical fitness and sports encourages participation in a wide variety of activities, including the sports of the winter olympics, to enhance health and fitness.
a phrase used to describe when  someone is caught off-balance and they rotate their arms wildly in the air to  try to recover.
the following link will take you to the schedule page for the 2002 salt lake city winter olympic games, where you can view olympic schedules by date, by individual sport or by sports venue: olympic schedule (or click here for a printable schedule of the olympic games)
an aerial maneuver in which the rear hand grabs  the toe edge in front of the front foot while the rear leg is straightened.
some states have snowboarding available at park and recreation areas.
the eight first-round matchups take place as follows: race 1: 1 vs.16, race 2: 2 vs. 15, race 3 :3 vs. 14, race 4: 4 vs. 13, race 5: 5 vs. 12, race 6: 6 vs. 11, race 7: 7 vs. 10, race 8 : 8 vs. 9.
a handplant using the rear hand while grabbing the board with the other (front) hand.
the stiffness of the snowboard.
to ride perpendicular to the fall line; to ride across the halfpipe.
the side of the snowboard on which the toes rest; the side of the snowboard the athlete's chest faces.
finally, unbuckle your back foot from the board and push off with your foot, sliding easily to the lift for your next ride up to the top to continue snowboarding.
synthetic materials such as supplex and coolmax are ideal because they keep you  warm and dry.
a small radius will make for  tighter turning than a large radius.
a trick in which the rider is airborne  and upside-down.
the following link will take you to the television schedule for the 2002 salt lake city winter olympic games: olympic television schedule snowboarders to watch at the olympics
an invert in which the rider rotates while  flipping.
you should be balanced and relaxed, maintaining an athletic stance over the edge you are riding on the heel edge (back) or the toe edge (front).
an aerial maneuver in which the athlete  reaches behind the front foot and grabs the toe edge between the bindings with  the front hand.
named for its originator, shawn palmer, an  aerial maneuver in which the board is grabbed near the nose and pulled across  the front of the body, and the nose is pointed downward.
if a snowboarder rides straight down the halfpipe, the side of the halfpipe that is behind the rider.
many new riders  find it disconcerting to travel facing the trees or the side of the slope while  going down the mountain, but after a few gentle turns and twists you'll be  thrilled as you gingerly pick up speed and enjoy the powder under your feet.
most people stand or "board" with their left foot forward, much like sliding into home plate.
when you are ready to take your first run down the hill, you will have to  decide how you want to stand on the board.
every competitor takes one run down the course.
riding a snowboard with the right foot forward.
a phrase used to describe when someone is caught off-balance and they rotate their arms wildly in the air to try to recover.
the side of the snowboard on which the toes  rest; the side of the snowboard the athlete's chest faces.
pay special attention to protecting  feet, hands, face and head.
incorporating a move into a trick just before the trick's completion.
your shoulders should be parallel with the board to assure that you are weighting and balancing on both feet evenly (50-50) and staying on the "sweet spot" (center) of the board.
to ride solely on the tail of the snowboard  with the nose in the air.
you should flexibly layer the clothing and use proper materials so you will stay warm and still not restrict your movement.
binding system in which no major manual  adjustment is needed to attach and detach the boot from the binding.
finally, unbuckle your back foot from the board and push off with your  foot, sliding easily to the lift for your next ride up to the top to continue  snowboarding.
up to 40 percent of body heat can be lost when the  head is exposed.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider grabs the toe edge in between the feet with his front hand and the front knee is pulled to the board.
an inverted aerial in which the snowboarder  performs a 540-degree flip.
any trick performed on or near the lip of the wall.
for the head-to-head part, the athletes are seeded based on the qualifying times.
the snow structure on which the halfpipe  competition is contested.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider grabs  the toe edge in front of the front foot with the front hand and the back leg is  straightened while the board points perpendicular to the ground.
any maneuver in the halfpipe in which the rider  rotates 180 degrees or more in the uphill direction.
it has an identical tip and tail so the board can be ridden in either direction.
snowboarding for fun, not in a competition.
a hard plastic helmet is essential to prevent head injuries; helmets manufactured for ski sports are required for snowboarding competition.
[olympics main] [getting in shape]
to ride solely on the tail of the snowboard with the nose in the air.
the area in the halfpipe between the two  walls.
of course you'll want to check snow conditions at your chosen location.
any air performed on the backside wall of the halfpipe.
strap your other foot in, and start slowly down the mountain side (or bunny hill).
boots designed for use in freestyle and  freeride snowboarding.
the top edge of the halfpipe wall.
a snowboard stance in which the toes point  outward.
the term also is used to  describe an aerial on the frontside wall.
the foot mounted closest to the tail of the  snowboard.
some "boarders" can do it  either way.
the boots designed for parallel giant slalom and the other alpine events.
grabbing the snowboard with both hands on an aerial maneuver.
binding system in which no major manual adjustment is needed to attach and detach the boot from the binding.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider  reaches across the body with the front hand and grabs the tail while the front  leg is straightened.
an aerial maneuver performed in the backside  direction with the rear hand grabbing the board between the bindings.
if a snowboarder rides straight down the  halfpipe, the side of the halfpipe that is in front of the rider.
strap your other foot in, and  start slowly down the mountain side (or bunny hill).
the trailing hand closest to the tail of the  snowboard.
the athlete performs a mute grab with the front hand while the back leg is boned (straightened) and the board is kept parallel to the ground.
the part of the edge of the snowboard that  is in contact with the snow; does not include the edges of the tip and tail.
named after skateboarder jeff phillips.
most people stand or  "board" with their left foot forward, much like sliding into home  plate.
the athletes are ranked in order of their times.
the athlete approaches the halfpipe wall riding forward, goes airborne, rotates 540 degrees in a backside direction while performing a front flip, and lands riding forward.
any air performed on the backside wall of  the halfpipe.
performing two separate grab tricks on one aerial.
incorporating a move into a trick just before the  trick's completion.
snowboarding is an american original.
named after skateboarder  mike mcgill.
try to  maintain an even keel in the snow without catching the front or back end of  your board in the snow.
for the second round (quarterfinals), the matchups take place as follows: race 9: winner of race 1 vs. winner of race 8, race 10:
when you're ready to head for the snow, the best way to get  started is to sign up for snowboarding lessons at a ski resort.
it is named  after skateboarding guru steve caballero.
a aerial maneuver in which the rear hand reaches between the leg and grabs the heel edge between the bindings while the front is straightened.
these maneuvers will take time and practice to learn, but they are necessary skills to acquire and are fun once you master them.
any rotation in which the snowboarder has  oriented himself "blind" to his takeoff or landing and must stretch  to look over his shoulder.
an aerial maneuver in which the snowboard rotates  360 degrees — one full spin.
an aerial maneuver in which the snowboarder  performs a 180-degree flip.
make sure you're facing  forward, hands in front; keep your weight low and your knees bent.
in addition to the cost of staying at a resort, the main expense for snowboarding is buying or renting equipment and clothing (board, helmet, boots, clothing) and purchase of lift tickets.
they are made soft and pliable to allow a large range of motion.
your shoulders  should be parallel with the board to assure that you are weighting and  balancing on both feet evenly (50-50) and staying on the "sweet spot"  (center) of the board.
opportunities to enjoy snowboarding are available at many winter  resorts and ski areas.
also know as a "crippler.
an aerial maneuver in which the upper torso and lower body are twisted in opposite directions and then returned to normal.
snowboarding basics
you should flexibly layer the clothing and use proper  materials so you will stay warm and still not restrict your movement.
the snow structure on which the halfpipe competition is contested.
the edge of the snowboard closest to the heels.
a maneuver in which the rider places the rear hand on the lip of the halfpipe and rotates 180 degrees in the frontside direction.
riding on a snowboard with the left foot  forward.
an aerial maneuver in which the snowboarder rotates 540 degrees one and a half spins.
the top portion of the wall in a halfpipe that allows the snowboard to fly straight up in the air.
hands free and fancy free, you're on your way to becoming a great  snowboarder!
canada and europe also have many resorts featuring winter sports.
the curved surface of the halfpipe walls  between the flat section and the vertical portion of the wall.
the term also is used to describe an aerial on the frontside wall.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider grabs the nose of the snowboard.
the first portion of the competition is a qualifying run.
the athlete grabs the tail of the snowboard  with the rear hand.
as one story goes, sherman poppen invented the snowboard for his daughter in 1965 when he braced a pair of skis together and tied a rope to the front to help steer.
others prefer to lead with their right foot.
an aerial maneuver in which the rider grabs the  heel edge with his front hand and leans over the nose of the board.
the losers race for the bronze medal.
to slightly dull the edges of the snowboard.
the athlete grabs the tail of the snowboard with the rear hand.
a middle layer of wool or wool-like synthetic fabric to absorb sweat and retain insulation !
riding on a snowboard with the left foot forward.
a one-handed 180-degree backside rotated invert  in which the front hand is planted on the lip of the halfpipe wall.
hands free and fancy free, you're on your way to becoming a great snowboarder!
your toes will inch  over the edge of the board a bit, your heel against the toes of the other foot  as you balance precariously for a second or two.
similar to rollerblading, the back of your  board will slow you down if you press it into the snow.
winner of race 2 vs. winner of race 7, race 11: winner of race 3 vs. winner of race 6, race 12: winner of race 4 vs. winner of race 5.
the part of the edge of the snowboard that is in contact with the snow; does not include the edges of the tip and tail.
the measure of the circle's radius to which the sidecut of the snowboard corresponds.
you can call your travel agent or search the internet (search under "snowboarding") for packages and special travel fares.
an aerial maneuver in which the snowboard rotates 360 degrees one full spin.
a binding system in which hard boots are  attached to the snowboard by a flat plate similar to ski bindings.
snowboarding made its olympic debut in 1998 at nagano, where its two events the giant slalom and the halfpipe were introduced to the world.
you should be balanced and  relaxed, maintaining an athletic stance over the edge you are riding on —  the heel edge (back) or the toe edge (front).
a move in which the rear hand reaches behind the rear leg to grab the toe edge between the bindings while the rear leg is straightened.
the position of the feet on the snowboard.
a maneuver in which the rider places  the rear hand on the lip of the halfpipe and rotates 180 degrees in the  frontside direction.
warm-up, endurance exercises with strength training on off days, cool  down snowboarding and you!
an aerial maneuver in which the rear hand grabs the toe edge in front of the front foot while the rear leg is straightened.
many peel  off layers when snowboarding, then replace those layers when stopping to rest  and rehydrate.
a move in which the rear hand reaches  behind the rear leg to grab the toe edge between the bindings while the rear  leg is straightened.
some resorts keep their slopes snow-covered with snow machines.
then you'll start to gain confidence and feel more  control.
there is an abundance of information on the web.
it has an  identical tip and tail so the board can be ridden in either direction.
after the qualification round, a 16-person tournament is established and competitors battle it out on two side-by-side courses until there is a winner.
once you are comfortable with momentum and controlling speed, it becomes easier to balance.
named for its originator, terje haaken.
an invert in which the athlete approaches the  halfpipe wall riding fakie (backwards), plants the rear hand on the lip of the  halfpipe while doing a front flip, and lands in the transition area riding  forward.
remember: you're not skiing!
an invert in which the athlete plants the front hand on the wall, rotates 540 degrees in a backside direction and lands riding forward.
when you are ready to take your first run down the hill, you will have to decide how you want to stand on the board.
rotating counter-clockwise for a regular-footed snowboarder or rotating clockwise for a goofy-footed snowboarder.
just as in ice skating, you have to learn how to balance your weight to  scrape the snow/ice just enough to stop but not so much that you upset your  position and fall.
these maneuvers will take time and practice to learn, but  they are necessary skills to acquire and are fun once you master them.
in addition to the cost of staying at a  resort, the main expense for snowboarding is buying or renting equipment and  clothing (board, helmet, boots, clothing) and purchase of lift tickets.
to switch from riding fakie (backwards) to  forward, or from forward to fakie.
the athlete approaches the wall of the halfpipe riding forward and lands riding forward.