the snowplough at the start of your turn is only evident when the terrain is particularly difficult or steep, but in easier terrain you are almost always parallel.
you are willing to push your riding in trees, moguls and steeps but need  coaching and practice to become really comfortable.
you are exploring steeper  terrain (blues and easier blacks or equivalent european reds) and making an  effort not to side slip through difficult sections, but at times you have to  revert to side slipping.
you can make adjustments in your snowboarding to allow for changing conditions whilst moving e.g. when riding from groomed to un-groomed or from a shallow pitch to a steeper pitch.
the chart below shows a rough outline of the minimum standard you need to be to come on any of our courses.
average age become an instructor
you can link turns on green runs (a linked turn is changing from one  edge to the opposite edge).
minimum ability please look below to read our experience level guidefitness thristy for morefairly fit rising starfairly fit rising starfairly fit 2.
"i had already done a few seasons before i went on the nonstop  11 week instructor course and have now passed my level 3 certification."
you can make adjustments in your snowboarding to allow for changing  conditions whilst moving e.g. when riding from groomed to un-groomed or from a  shallow pitch to a steeper pitch.
you have a preferred edge you like being on and will side slip when the terrain gets too hard.
you can vary the size of your turn to suit the terrain.
you can adapt your turns to suit the terrain and vary between steered shorter turns and longer carved turns.
skiing is a new hobby of yours but you’re hooked and  want to learn more.
you have ridden down easier blue runs but steep blues and blacks are still intimidating.
simon calnan - nonstop 11 week instructor course participant below are two pie-charts that demonstrate the average ages of the people who join us on our courses.
snowboarding is a new hobby of yours but you are hooked and want to learn more.
steep un-groomed black runs and challenging off-piste cause bad habits to return.
you can carve at speed down steep blues and some blacks 6.
you have  skied easier blue runs but steep blues and black runs are still intimidating.
at the start of the turn you use a little snowplough to begin the  direction change and then finish with parallel skis.
what do you want to get out of the course?
you enjoy skiing black runs and fast on groomed runs.
you are willing to push your riding in trees, moguls and steeps but need coaching and practice to become really comfortable.
you are a confident skier who enjoys skiing a variety of terrain (including powder), but needs coaching to iron out bad habits.
you have experience skiing trees, moguls, powder, choppy  snow, ice and any other condition the mountain can throw up, even if you cannot  always ski it with style.
you are beginning to understand the concept of carving and are starting to ski at speed with both skis running on an edge.
intrepid explorer 1.
you feel like you can ride anything but would like to be able to refine  your technique and improve your control.
simon calnan - nonstop 11 week instructor course participant how old are the people who go on nonstop courses?
you are willing to push your skiing in moguls and trees but need practice and coaching to really feel comfortable.
the mountain tamer 1.
we are often able to customise a package to suit your needs such as organising for you to arrive a few weeks before the start of the course to bring you up to standard.
you are beginning to understand the concept of carving and are starting  to ski at speed with both skis running on an edge.
rising star fairly fit 2 week snow safari  5 weeks intrepid explorer fairly fit 6 week off-piste 5 weeks  intrepid explorer fit level 2 csia level 1 csia level 1 fit 11-week & instructor courses: average age guide to ski experience levels (scroll down if you're a snowboarder) thirsty for more 1.
you are happy too explore easier off-piste and un-groomed terrain.
you can carve at speed  down steep blues and some blacks 6.
below are two pie-charts that demonstrate the average ages of the people  who join us on our courses.
you are prepared and comfortable when  pointing your board down the hill on easier blue terrain.
what is your current skiing / snowboarding level?
you are reluctant to point your board down the  hill.
if you have any queries or are worried that your ability might not be suitable for one of our courses please give us a call.
the snowplough at the start of your turn is only evident when the  terrain is particularly difficult or steep, but in easier terrain you are  almost always parallel.
you have a preferred edge you like being on and will side slip when the  terrain gets too hard.
2) how long do you want to spend on a course?
at the start of the turn you use a little snowplough to begin the direction change and then finish with parallel skis.
you are happy to explore easier off-piste and un-groomed terrain.
you are skiing increasingly steeper terrain (steeper blue runs, some easy blacks or the equivalent european reds) 3.
riding switch is becoming more comfortable and you willingly try it on a regular basis.
every season we have the satisfaction of witnessing not only timid novices transform into tidy advanced skiers and snowboarders, while already confident experts rid their bad habits and push themselves further than they have previously done.
the table below is a guide only; everyone improves at different rates due to instruction, fitness and natural ability.
you feel like you can ride anything but would like to be able to refine your technique and improve your control.
you have toyed with riding switch but it is pretty uncomfortable.
your confidence on a board is growing and you can  change edges as and when you need too.
all of these are answered in the advice below.
you can carve at speed down black runs.
you can adapt your turns to suit the terrain and vary between steered  shorter turns and longer carved turns.
you are willing to push your skiing in moguls and trees but need  practice and coaching to really feel comfortable.
you are becoming more confident on your skis and can turn when you want to and if you need to.
you have skied easier blue runs but steep blues and black runs are still intimidating.
you have experience snowboarding trees, moguls, powder, choppy snow, ice  and any other condition the mountain can throw up, even if you cannot always  ride it with style.
you are skiing increasingly steeper terrain (steeper blue runs, some  easy blacks or the equivalent european reds) 3.
you are a confident skier who enjoys skiing a variety of terrain  (including powder), but needs coaching to iron out bad habits.
you are reluctant to point your board down the hill.
you are prepared to ski outside your comfort zone (within reason) in order to ski steeper terrain and develop your skills.
you have experience snowboarding trees, moguls, powder, choppy snow, ice and any other condition the mountain can throw up, even if you cannot always ride it with style.
steep blacks and difficult off-piste cause bad habits to return.
you are prepared to ski outside your comfort zone (within reason) in  order to ski steeper terrain and develop your skills.
you are becoming more confident on your skis and can turn when you want  to and if you need to.
you are a confident snowboarder who enjoys riding a  variety of terrain (including powder) but needs coaching to iron out bad habits.
riding switch is second nature to you.
you are more than comfortable with snow plough turns and are progressing into parallel turns, but at times you find it difficult to turn when you want to.
you have  felt the sensation of ‘carving’ and being on an edge at speed.
shorter courses & improvement camps:
you have been snowboarding for years and  are comfortable when asked to ride almost any terrain.
guide to snowboard experience levels thirsty for more 1.
you can make  adjustments in your skiing to allow for changing conditions whilst moving e.g.  when skiing from groomed to un-groomed or from a shallow pitch to a steeper  pitch.
skip to content when deciding on the best course for you, consider: 1)
why not explore the rest of the site...
you have been skiing for years and  are comfortable when asked to ski almost any terrain.
you can link turns on green runs (a linked turn is changing from one edge to the opposite edge).
you feel like you can ski anything but  would like to be able to refine your technique and improve your control.
steep un-groomed black runs and challenging off-piste cause bad habits  to return.
please look below to read our experience level guide fitness 11  week banff 1 week thristy for more 11 week fernie 3 weeks rising star 11 week whistler 3 weeks rising star 11 week red mtn 5 weeks intrepid explorer  fit 12 week n. zealand 5 weeks interpid explorer fit 5 week instructor 3 weeks rising star fairly fit 3 week instructor 5 weeks intrepid explorer  fit 2/3 week camps 3 weeks
riding switch is becoming more comfortable and you willingly try it on a  regular basis.
you enjoy snowboarding on black runs and going fast on groomed terrain.
you are more than comfortable with snow plough turns and are progressing  into parallel turns, but at times you find it difficult to turn when you want  to.
you have ridden down easier blue runs but steep blues and blacks are  still intimidating.
there is no maximum standard; many of our clients have already done several seasons before they join our courses.