there is also a massive amount of acreage dedicated to backcountry and
copyright © 1998 - 2012 vacation coupons.
home |  sitemap employment opportunities   about us   contact us   disclaimer skicoupons.com is a subsidiary of  vacationcoupons.com 7853 east arapahoe ct., suite 3700, englewood, co 80112 p.o. box 4331, greenwood village, co 80155
heavenly works hard to be a well-rounded resort and offers guests amenities such as lockers, storage, medical facilities, and a complimentary shuttle.
the lessons cater to all ages, ability and skill levels.
by car its located along  highway 50 off of ski run boulevard.
longest run - 2.5 | number of trails - 46 | terrain classification - 25% easier, 50% more difficult, 25%  most difficult copyright © 1998 - 2012 vacation coupons.
advanced skiers should head to gunbarrel and experience massive moguls and more than a 1,800 vertical feet descent.
the resort is exceedingly easy to get to, it is about an hour from  reno-tahoe airport.
there is a tubing park, snowshoeing, cross country and hiking available as well.
it’s an ideal resort for families, couples and groups because it offers such a wide variety of activities, accommodations, and dining options.
heavenly ski experience skiing at heavenly is an unforgettable experience replete with stunning mountain vistas, deep powdery chutes, flawlessly groomed trails, and state of the art lifts.
there are a range of private lessons and group lessons for children as well as adults, whether it’s skiing, snowboarding or telemarking, heavenly’s exquisite ski school has the ideal class.
the nearly 100 runs at heavenly suit a variety of ages and abilities, 20% beginner runs, 45% intermediate trails and the remaining 35% are reserved especially for expert and advanced skiers.
it also houses adventure peak which is  a fun place for children as well as the heavenly flyer zipline.
the nearly 100 runs at heavenly suit a variety of ages  and abilities, 20% beginner runs, 45% intermediate trails and the remaining 35%  are reserved especially for expert and advanced skiers.
there is a  tubing park, snowshoeing, cross country and hiking available as well.
[discount lift tickets] heavenly summit elevation -10,040 feet | base elevation - 6,540 feet | vertical rise -
2,000 feet |lifts - 12 total ( 2 quads, 7 triple chairs, 1  double chairs, 2 - triple passenger chairs, 2 surface lifts ) | total  ski/ride terrain - 2,300 acres | longest run - 2.5 | number of trails - 65 | terrain classification - 15% beginner, 50% intermediate, 20% advanced, 15% expert sierra at tahoe sierra at tahoe summit elevation - 8,852 feet | base elevation - 7,800 feet |vertical rise - 6,640 feet | lifts - 12 total | total ski/ride terrain - 2,000 acres |
heavenly also proudly boasts an extensive ski and snowboard school as well as a daycare and nursery for the little ones.
year after year visitors flock to heavenly because, quite frankly, it offers some of the greatest skiing in the area.
the resort covers a stunning 4,800 acres which span two states, 3,500 feet of vertical and the highest summit in lake tahoe at 10,067 feet!
it is  also a few hours from sacramento and san francisco.
heavenly boasts nearly 400 inches of snow and snowmaking on 73% of their trails, so conditions will be optimal no matter the weather.
there is also a massive  amount of acreage dedicated to backcountry and
fantastic landscapes, world-class  skiing, modern amenities and extra conveniences are just a few of the reasons  why hundreds of thousands of eager visitors flock to heavenly year after year.
heavenly also proudly boasts an extensive ski and  snowboard school as well as a daycare and nursery for the little ones.
from there, there is a shuttle service to the resort.
the resort is exceedingly easy to get to, it is about an hour from reno-tahoe airport.
heavenly’s three gates  access some of the most intense, steep and exhilarating backcountry in all the  region.
heavenly also regularly  offers a series of fantastic ski and stay deals throughout the season that are  definitely worth checking out.
heavenly works hard to be a well-rounded  resort and offers guests amenities such as lockers, storage, medical  facilities, and a complimentary shuttle.
phone:  303-759-1179     fax:  303-459-4295     email:
it’s an ideal resort for families, couples and groups because it offers  such a wide variety of activities, accommodations, and dining options.
by car its located along highway 50 off of ski run boulevard.
3,500  feet |lifts - 29 total (1 high-speed gondola, 1 aerial tram ,1  high-speed six passenger,5 high-speed quads, 8 triple chairs, 5 double chairs,  6 surface lifts, 2 magic carpets ) | total ski/ride terrain -  4,800 acres |longest run - 5.5 | number of trails - 85 | terrain classification - 20% easier, 45% more  difficult, 35% most difficult kirkwood kirkwood summit elevation - 9,800 feet | base elevation - 7,800 feet | vertical rise -
heavenly’s three gates access some of the most intense, steep and exhilarating backcountry in all the region.
fantastic landscapes, world-class skiing, modern amenities and extra conveniences are just a few of the reasons why hundreds of thousands of eager visitors flock to heavenly year after year.
heavenly boasts nearly 400 inches  of snow and snowmaking on 73% of their trails, so conditions will be optimal no  matter the weather.
there are a range of  private lessons and group lessons for children as well as adults, whether  it’s skiing, snowboarding or telemarking, heavenly’s exquisite ski  school has the ideal class.
the resort covers a stunning 4,800 acres which  span two states, 3,500 feet of vertical and the highest summit in lake tahoe at  10,067 feet!
the customer representatives are some of the most well-informed and friendliest in the business and are happy to help ensure that potential visitors plan a memorable and affordable ski vacation.
the customer representatives are some of the most well-informed and  friendliest in the business and are happy to help ensure that potential  visitors plan a memorable and affordable ski vacation.
the  lessons cater to all ages, ability and skill levels.
year after year  visitors flock to heavenly because, quite frankly, it offers some of the  greatest skiing in the area.
it is also a few hours from sacramento and san francisco.
advanced skiers should head to gunbarrel and experience massive moguls  and more than a 1,800 vertical feet descent.
heavenly also regularly offers a series of fantastic ski and stay deals throughout the season that are definitely worth checking out.
it also houses adventure peak which is a fun place for children as well as the heavenly flyer zipline.
free lodging book 4 or more nights get one night free* forest suites resort wedding packages available group rates available for friends & family* pine cone acre motel $100 off mention this ad and receive $100 off the event tent or bride and  groom stay free with 5 or more rooms* heavenly ski experience skiing at heavenly is  an unforgettable experience replete with stunning mountain vistas, deep powdery  chutes, flawlessly groomed trails, and state of the art lifts.