conclusions snowboarders, beginners, children and adolescents had an increased injury risk.
every tenth skier or snowboarder waiting in line was interviewed, to  achieve a representative sample of the skiing population.
view this table: in a new window table 4 distribution of injured body region related to skiing equipment (n=3170).
when comparing those with potentially severe injuries to the other injury cases, there were differences related to nationality, equipment and skiing instruction (table 1).view this table: distribution of injury cases in number and percentage by age, gender, nationality, skiing ability, equipment, used rented equipment, attained skiing instruction and helmet wear.
table 3 compares injury type to body region.
what this study adds ▶ children, snowboarders and beginners are at increased injury risk.
data showed that children younger  than 13 years had a four times higher risk than adolescents, and 11 times  higher risk than adults.
the target number  interviewed corresponded to the expected injury count from each resort,  estimated from injury surveillance data from the previous years.3 the  interviews were conducted at the entry of the bottom main ski lift at each  resort.
in addition, the  ski patrol recorded whether the injury occurred in prepared runs, in the  snowboard park, off-piste (outside groomed runs), while taking the ski lift or  getting on/off.
previous section next section ski patrols at eight major norwegian ski resorts registered injuries during the 2002 winter season (geilo, hafjell, trysil, norefjell, hovden, oppdal, hemsedal and ålsheia).
a total of 237 cases are excluded due to missing data.
view this table: in a new window table 6 adjusted multiple logistic regression analyses of relationship between knee  injuries and potential risk factors (n=536) view this table: in a new window table 7 adjusted multiple logistic regression analyses of relationship between  shoulder injuries and potential risk factors (n=365).
however, the authors did  see a 67% higher risk for knee injuries among female skiers and snowboarders,  as well as a 46% lower risk for shoulder injuries and 32% lower risk for head  injuries.
view this table: in a new window table 3 comparison of injury types and body region (n=3189); in 88 cases there was  no information on injured body region or injury type.
telemark skiers have a higher risk for shoulder injuries.
the injury often occurs as a combination  of compressive loading and twisting of the knee.19 this mechanism is typical in  the alpine skiing discipline, when the skier loses balance or the ski edge  catches during a turn.20 21 upper limb and head injuries are often associated  with falling from a jump.22 23 thus, more cautious skiing may be an explanation  for why female skiers and snowboarders have a lower risk for upper limb and  head/neck injuries.
for patients with multiple injuries (less  than 1%), each injury was recorded as a separate case.
an injury was recorded when a skier or snowboarder was treated by or consulted with the ski patrol or first aid room staff after an accident in the skiing area during skiing or lift transport.
previous section next section acknowledgments
rented equipment and skiing instruction did not seem to influence the  overall risk of injury, while skiing instruction decreased the risk of  potentially severe injuries.
compared to children up to 12 years of age, adolescents (13–20 years) suffered more injuries and adults (>20 years) fewer injuries.
table 4 shows the relationship between skiing equipment and the injured  body region.
the  reason why snowboarders suffer fewer injuries to their legs and, in particular,  their knees is probably because both feet are fixed to the board.
central to the injury reporting is also the definition of an injury.
skiing ability was classified into four categories (beginner, intermediate,  good or expert) based on self-reported performance of turns.12
the authors also performed multiple logistic regression analyses to examine  the risk factors for some of the most common injury types; lower leg fractures ( table 5), knee injuries (table 6), and shoulder injuries (table 7).
all users  entered here, and many users would end up there after a run, even after going  off-piste or in the snowboard park.
interaction between two risk factors on injury was tested on the relative scale by creating a product term between them as an added factor, which was tested for significance by the likelihood ratio method.
the adjusted ors were then compared with the crude ors, and the difference  did not exceed 20%.
provenance and peer review not commissioned, externally peer reviewed.
competing interests none.
langranet al7 found that tibia/fibula  fractures represented 5% of injuries to alpine skiers and 0.5% among  snowboarders.
alpine skiers, beginners, males, children and adolescents are at a higher  risk of lower leg fractures, telemark skiers, males and adolescents are at a  higher risk of shoulder injuries, while knee injuries occur more frequently  among alpine skiers, females and beginners.
a total of 237 cases are excluded due to  missing data.
other risk factors for lower leg fractures  were skiing ability and nationality.
since their introduction, ski release  bindings are thought to have reduced dramatically the incidence of lower leg  fractures among alpine skiers.7 31
objective to determine the risk factors among skiers and snowboarders.
the registration was done when lifts opened in the morning and after lunch (ie, 10am–11am and 1pm–2pm).
beginners were at a  higher risk of injuries compared to the intermediate, good and expert skiers  (or ranging from 2.12 to 3.47), and non-nordic skiers were at a higher risk  than the nordic skiers (or 1.37 to 2.36).
the high lower leg fracture rate among children is an issue which  needs to be addressed, as release bindings alone do not seem to have solved the  problem in this age group.
the authors used  spss (pasw statistics 18) for the analyses.
none were found, and  data are therefore not given.
the authors therefore conducted a case-control study to explore the effects  of a number of assumed risk factors for injury, including age, gender and  ability, on overall injury risk as well as the risk for knee injuries, shoulder  injuries and lower leg fractures.
however, during the 1990s, telemark skiing and, in particular, snowboarding gained popularity.3 the injury risk is high,2 and serious injuries are common in both skiers and snowboarders.4,–,6
methods ski patrols reported cases (n=3277) in eight major  norwegian alpine resorts.
interaction between two risk factors on injury was tested on the relative  scale by creating a product term between them as an added factor, which was  tested for significance by the likelihood ratio method.
nevertheless, lower leg fractures are still  common in young alpine skiers (17% of all injuries in alpine skiers up to 12  years old).
safety initiatives should be developed to target this population.
a standard form was used to record personal data (age, gender, nationality), as well as information on the type of equipment (alpine skis, telemark skis (which permit a turning technique with free heel lift), snowboard, sleigh or other), use of helmet (yes/no), previous ski school attendance (yes/no), rented or own equipment (yes/no) and skiing ability.
snowboarders had a higher overall injury risk than skiers (or 2.11; 1.81 to 2.46).
ods are presented with 95% cis.
this is when most users enter the area, and the main lifts serve to feed a number of other lifts, which take the skiers further into the mountain area to ski the runs available.
a multivariate logistic regression analysis was used to assess the relationship between individual risk factors and risk of injury.
data collection was funded by the norwegian  ski lift association.
alpine skiers (or 2.65; 1.47 to 4.80), beginners (or 2.50; 1.61 to  3.85), children (or 11.1; 6.7 to 20.0) and adolescents (or 4.17; 2.44 to 7.14)  were prone to lower leg fractures.
the controls were  registered during ‘rush-hour’ in the morning and after lunch, when  most users were entering the area through the bottom main ski lift.
these eight ski resorts account for about 55% of the ski lift transports in norway, based on the number of tickets sold (personal communication, andreas rødven, norwegian ski lift association).
the results from a crude and adjusted logistic regression analysis of the relationship between any injury and the potential risk factors are shown in table 2.
as a control group, uninjured skiers and snowboarders were interviewed in  the same eight ski resorts during the same season (n=2992).
from a multiple logistic regression analysis of the relationship between  the potentially severe injuries and controls, the authors detected that  beginners (or 2.50, 2.08 to 3.33; p<0.001), snowboarders (or 2.11, 1.80 to  2.47; p<0.001) and non-nordic skiers (or 1.89, 1.37 to 2.32; p<0.001) had  a higher risk, while adults over 20 years (or 0.65, 0.51 to 0.85; p=0.001) and  female skiers/boarders (or 0.81, 0.70 to 0.93;p=0.003) had a reduced risk of  potentially severe injuries.
except for the injury-related  information, the questions asked were the same as for the injured skiers (ie,  age, gender, nationality, equipment type, use of helmet, previous ski school  attendance, rented or own equipment and skiing ability.
these gender differences are pointed out in a paper by shealy and  co-workers, 1996.17 female athletes are more prone to knee injuries in most  sports (acl ruptures in particular).18
from a multiple logistic regression analysis of the relationship between the potentially severe injuries and controls, the authors detected that beginners (or 2.50, 2.08 to 3.33; p> don't forget to sign up for content alerts so you keep up to date with all the articles as they are published.
age, nationality, skiing ability and the type of equipment were the significant risk factors.
in this study, the authors found a 19% lower  overall injury risk for female skiers and snowboarders in the crude analysis,  but this was not significant in the adjusted model.
the board is  unable to act independently as a lever, thus reducing the twisting and bending  forces on the individual knee.
adjusted  for other factors, telemark skiers had a 70% higher risk for shoulder injuries  compared to snowboarders, while there was no significant difference between  snowboarders and alpine skiers.
advanced searchan international peer-reviewed journal of sport and exercise medicine background alpine skiing and snowboarding have a substantial risk of injuries, but precise risk factor estimates are limited.
▶ female skiers and snowboarders have a lower risk for shoulder  injuries, and higher risk for knee injuries.
an uninjured control group (n=2992) was  obtained at the same resorts.
age, nationality, skiing ability and the type of equipment were the  significant risk factors.
previous section next section skiing and snowboarding are winter sports enjoyed by several hundred million people worldwide, and they are increasingly popular.
however, they also represent activities with high potential for traumatic injury.1 2 alpine skiing has been the dominant discipline in norwegian ski resorts.
alpine skiers  had a significantly higher risk of lower leg fractures compared to snowboarders  and telemark skiers.
in alpine skiing, knee injuries were the most frequent (27.3%), in  snowboarding wrist injuries (25.9%) and in telemark skiing shoulder injuries  (20.1%).
langranet  al7 based on their case-control study demonstrated that snowboarders were  more likely to sustain upper limb or axial injury, while lower limb injuries  were more common in the alpine group.
fractures in the shoulder were  common in children, while adults sustained more dislocations.
a total of 1752 (53%) were referred to a physician or hospital by the ski patrol for further assessment or treatment (potentially severe injuries).table 1 depicts the distribution of injuries within subgroups of age, gender, nationality, skiing ability, equipment, rented or own equipment, skiing instruction and helmet wear compared to the control group.
this is when most users enter the area, and the main lifts  serve to feed a number of other lifts, which take the skiers further into the  mountain area to ski the runs available.
the adjusted ors were then compared with the crude ors, and if the difference exceeded 20%, major confounding could be involved.
as a control group, uninjured skiers and snowboarders were interviewed in the same eight ski resorts during the same season (n=2992).
helmet use, skiing instruction and ski rental did not influence the overall injury risk.
prodromoset al15 found no  gender differences in acl (anterior cruciate ligament) tear risk for either  recreational or expert alpine skiers in a meta-analysis investigating gender  differences for acl injury in different sports activities.
these eight ski resorts account for about 55% of  the ski lift transports in norway, based on the number of tickets sold  (personal communication, andreas rødven, norwegian ski lift association).
several risk factors for injuries in these disciplines have been suggested,  such as age, gender and skill level,1,–,10 but the results are equivocal  and there are few studies which include a representative control group of  uninjured skiers and snowboarders.1 7,–,9 11 even less is known about the  risk factors for specific injury types, and whether these differ between the  disciplines of alpine skiing, telemark skiing and snowboarding.
several risk factors for injuries in these disciplines have been suggested, such as age, gender and skill level,1,–,10 but the results are equivocal and there are few studies which include a representative control group of uninjured skiers and snowboarders.1 7,–,9 11 even less is known about the risk factors for specific injury types, and whether these differ between the disciplines of alpine skiing, telemark skiing and snowboarding.
according to the authors' definition, an injury is whatever was reported to and  registered by the ski patrol.
the target number interviewed corresponded to the expected injury count from each resort, estimated from injury surveillance data from the previous years.3 the interviews were conducted at the entry of the bottom main ski lift at each resort.
the authors are indebted to the ski patrols at the various resorts for  recording injuries and interviewing the control group.
the results  of these studies showed that injury risk factors were quite consistent between  less and potentially more severe cases, which means that a reporting bias was  unlikely.
thus, downhill winter sports injuries represent a significant concern.
for shoulder injuries (table 7), telemarkers, children under 12 years and  adults compared to adolescents, non-nordic and males were at higher risk.
the idea that beginners are  at higher risk, is well established in the literature, but the risk estimates  have been inconsistent, varying from 1.6 to 7 times higher risk.9,–,11 13  14 whether the female skiers and snowboarders have the same injury risk and  distribution as the men is controversial.
the authors selected wednesdays and  saturdays to sample the control group to compensate for differences in user  characteristics between weekdays and weekends, and matched the number of  controls to the expected injury count in each ski area.
snowboarding was associated with a two-fold higher  risk of injury than alpine skiing, while there was no significant difference in  injury risk between alpine and telemark skiing (table 2).
all p values are two-tailed.
the injury pattern varied between the three  disciplines, snowboarding, alpine and telemark skiing, reflecting the inherent  differences in user technique and equipment design.
males (or 1.85; 1.45 to 2.38), telemark  skiers (or 1.70; 1.30 to 2.23), children (or 2.22; 1.37 to 3.57) and adults (or  1.64; 1.11 to 2.37) had an increased risk for shoulder injuries.
a standard form was used to record personal data (age, gender,  nationality), as well as information on the type of equipment (alpine skis,  telemark skis (which permit a turning technique with free heel lift),  snowboard, sleigh or other), use of helmet (yes/no), previous ski school  attendance (yes/no), rented or own equipment (yes/no) and skiing ability.
there were significant differences in the distribution of age, nationality, skiing ability, equipment type and rented/own equipment between injured skiers and controls.
previous section next section results of the 3277 injuries recorded, there were 1607 injuries among alpine skiers  (49.1%), 1391 in snowboarding (42.5%) and 179 in telemark skiing (5.5%); 2.8%  of cases missing due to unknown equipment.
previous section next section conclusions children, adolescents, beginners and snowboarders have an increased injury  risk.
the adjusted ors were then compared with the crude ors, and the difference did not exceed 20%.
langran and selvaraj7  found no relation with gender in a case-control study during the winter of  2000, involving 674 injured skiers and snowboarders and 336 controls.
studies have shown that  self-reported injuries may be up to ten times higher than recorded by ski  patrols, but also that those missed by ski patrols were minor.26 27
roald bahr2 1orthopaedic department, sihf, gjoevik, norway 2oslo sports trauma research center, department of sports medicine,  norwegian school of sport sciences, oslo, norway 3norwegian ski lift association, oslo, norway 4martina hansens hospital, baerum, norway correspondence to steinar sulheim, orthopaedic department, sihf, gjoevik,  norway;steinar.sulheim{at}sykehuset-innlandet.no received 13 july 2011 published online first 15 november 2011 next section abstract background alpine skiing and snowboarding have a  substantial risk of injuries, but precise risk factor estimates are limited.
recall bias is not likely to have been a significant factor, since  interviews were done on the spot, usually within a few minutes after the  injury.
snowboarders.4,–,6 thus, downhill winter sports injuries represent a  significant concern.
however, they also  represent activities with high potential for traumatic injury.1 2 alpine skiing  has been the dominant discipline in norwegian ski resorts.
in the present study, the authors found that  snowboarders had twice the overall injury risk of alpine and telemark skiers,  and a three times higher risk for potentially severe injuries.
the adjusted ors were then compared with the crude ors, and if the  difference exceeded 20%, major confounding could be involved.
such patients were  defined as potentially severe cases.
methods ski patrols reported cases (n=3277) in eight major norwegian alpine resorts.
view this table: crude and adjusted analyses of relationships between any injury and potential risk factors (n=3040).
being a beginner was  associated with a 2.5 times higher risk of injury.
the authors therefore conducted a case-control study to explore the effects of a number of assumed risk factors for injury, including age, gender and ability, on overall injury risk as well as the risk for knee injuries, shoulder injuries and lower leg fractures.
when comparing those with potentially  severe injuries to the other injury cases, there were differences related to  nationality, equipment and skiing instruction (table 1).
objective to determine the risk factors among skiers and  snowboarders.
lower leg fractures are thought to be a particular risk among younger  skiers, but exact risk estimates are missing.
study design case-control study.
related article: exercise-associated collapse: an evidence-based review and primer for clinicians online issn 14730480 copyright © 2012 bmj publishing group ltd & british association of sport and exercise medicine
males (or 1.85; 1.45 to 2.38), telemark skiers (or 1.70; 1.30 to 2.23), children (or 2.22; 1.37 to 3.57) and adults (or 1.64; 1.11 to 2.37) had an increased risk for shoulder injuries.
the results from a crude and adjusted logistic regression analysis of the  relationship between any injury and the potential risk factors are shown in table 2.
however,  wasdenet al16 concluded that men are at a higher risk of injuries  while skiing or snowboarding, based on a retrospective case series of 1142  skiers and snowboarders treated at the local medical center, but this study did  not have a matching control group.
previous section next section materials and methods ski patrols at eight major norwegian ski resorts registered injuries during  the 2002 winter season (geilo, hafjell, trysil, norefjell, hovden, oppdal,  hemsedal and ålsheia).
to qualify for the ski patrol, the  personnel are required to go through a structured programme of first aid  education.
however, they concluded that there is no  difference in the overall risk between the two disciplines.
the data used in this study were collected in 2002,  and the authors do not know how changes in equipment or skier/snowboarder  behavior over the past years may impact on the relevance of the study.
view  this table: in a new window table 5 adjusted multiple logistic regression analyses of relationship between  lower leg fractures and potential risk factors (n=113).
the anatomical location (head, neck, shoulder, etc.) and injury type was recorded (classified as fracture, dislocation, sprain, contusion, skin wound or illness), as well as whether the patient needed transportation to a physician or hospital for further evaluation and treatment.
injury type and risk factors (age, gender,  nationality, skill level, equipment, helmet use, ski school attendance, rented  or own equipment)
a total of 1752 (53%) were referred  to a physician or hospital by the ski patrol for further assessment or  treatment (potentially severe injuries).table 1 depicts the distribution of  injuries within subgroups of age, gender, nationality, skiing ability,  equipment, rented or own equipment, skiing instruction and helmet wear compared  to the control group.
in fact,  alpine skiers had more than twice the risk of knee injuries compared to  snowboarders, and also a significantly higher risk than telemark skiers.
the authors have not assessed the number of injured skiers and snowboarders  that bypass the ski patrol for their injuries.
injury type and risk factors (age, gender, nationality, skill level, equipment, helmet use, ski school attendance, rented or own equipment) were recorded.
except for the injury-related information, the questions asked were the same as for the injured skiers (ie, age, gender, nationality, equipment type, use of helmet, previous ski school attendance, rented or own equipment and skiing ability.
view this table: in a new window table 1 distribution of injury cases in number and percentage by age, gender,  nationality, skiing ability, equipment, used rented equipment, attained skiing  instruction and helmet wear.
previous section next section limitations recent studies on the risk factors of skiing and snowboarding injury have  to some extent been inconclusive because they lack an appropriate control group  or the number of injuries has been too small for multivariate analyses.
knee injuries occurred more frequently among  alpine skiers (or 1.82; 1.39 to 2.38), females (or 1.67; 1.38 to 2.03) and  beginners (or 3.13; 2.50 to 3.85).
female skiers and snowboarders had a significant lower risk of injuries in the crude model, but this was not statistically significant in the adjusted test.
the  injury risk is high,2 and serious injuries are common in both skiers and
however, during the  1990s, telemark skiing and, in particular, snowboarding gained popularity.3
snowboarders had a higher overall injury risk than skiers (or 2.11; 1.81  to 2.46).
compared to children up to 12 years  of age, adolescents (13–20 years) suffered more injuries and adults  (>20 years) fewer injuries.
dehydration during exercise...
beginners were at a higher risk of injuries compared to the intermediate, good and expert skiers (or ranging from 2.12 to 3.47), and non-nordic skiers were at a higher risk than the nordic skiers (or 1.37 to 2.36).
the interviews were done every wednesday and saturday during the four winter months of 2002 by personnel, who were not told the purpose of the study.
an uninjured control group (n=2992) was obtained at the same resorts.
a multivariate logistic regression analysis was  used to assess the relationship between individual risk factors and risk of  injury.
the authors found that alpine skiers had about 2.5 times the risk  of snowboarders and telemark skiers.
the most frequently injured  regions were the head (17.6%), knee (17.4%), wrist (13.8%) and shoulder  (11.8%), while the most frequent injury types were contusions (35.2%),  fractures (27.9%) and sprains (23.6%).
the  strength of the current study is that the authors could assess key risk factors  in alpine skiing and snowboarding by comparing injured cases to an uninjured,  representative control group, while correcting for important confounders.
every tenth skier or snowboarder waiting in line was interviewed, to achieve a representative sample of the skiing population.
previous section  next section footnotes funding the oslo sports trauma research center has been established at the  norwegian school sport sciences through grants from the norwegian eastern  health corporate, the royal norwegian ministry of culture, the norwegian  olympic committee & confederation of sport, the international olympic  committee, and norsk tipping as.
for knee injuries (table 6), the authors found the highest risk among  females, beginners, alpine skiers and non-nordic skiers/boarders.
previous section next section of the 3277 injuries recorded, there were 1607 injuries among alpine skiers (49.1%), 1391 in snowboarding (42.5%) and 179 in telemark skiing (5.5%); 2.8% of cases missing due to unknown equipment.
collision with another person or obstacle was reported in 12.9% of all  cases, and the remaining injuries were the result of a fall or a jump.
female skiers and snowboarders had a significant  lower risk of injuries in the crude model, but this was not statistically  significant in the adjusted test.
alpine skiers (or 2.65; 1.47 to 4.80), beginners (or 2.50; 1.61 to 3.85), children (or 11.1; 6.7 to 20.0) and adolescents (or 4.17; 2.44 to 7.14) were prone to lower leg fractures.
conclusions snowboarders, beginners, children and  adolescents had an increased injury risk.
safety initiatives should be developed to target this  population.
in addition, the ski patrol recorded whether the injury occurred in prepared runs, in the snowboard park, off-piste (outside groomed runs), while taking the ski lift or getting on/off.
there were significant differences in the distribution of  age, nationality, skiing ability, equipment type and rented/own equipment  between injured skiers and controls.
head injuries were frequent across all disciplines (17.8% to 17.9%).
helmet use, skiing instruction and ski rental  did not influence the overall injury risk.
the overall injury risk was increased among beginners (or 2.72; 2.12 to 3.47), children (or 1.72; 1.41 to 2.13), adolescents (or 2.16; 1.72 to 2.66) and non-nordic skiers (or 1.80; 1.37 to 2.36).
the authors used spss (pasw statistics 18) for the analyses.
mccallet al30  debated this issue in a recent review, concluding that shoulder injuries  account for 8% to 16% of snowboarding injuries and 4% to 11% of alpine skiing  injuries.
a  total of 107 cases were excluded due to missing data on equipment type or body  region.
the anatomical location (head, neck, shoulder, etc.) and injury  type was recorded (classified as fracture, dislocation, sprain, contusion, skin  wound or illness), as well as whether the patient needed transportation to a  physician or hospital for further evaluation and treatment.
previous section next section introduction skiing and snowboarding are winter sports enjoyed by several hundred  million people worldwide, and they are increasingly popular.
the registration was  done when lifts opened in the morning and after lunch (ie, 10am–11am and  1pm–2pm).
to qualify for the ski patrol, the personnel are required to go through a structured programme of first aid education.
previous section next section discussion
the authors also found that adults and children have a significantly higher  risk of shoulder injuries than adolescents.
crude analyses of injury risk concerning lower leg fractures, knee injuries  and shoulder injuries did not differ more than 15% from the adjusted analyses,  thus there is a low degree of confounding.
snowboarding was associated with a two-fold higher risk of injury than alpine skiing, while there was no significant difference in injury risk between alpine and telemark skiing (table 2).
injury  as a result of collision was seen more frequently among the alpine skiers  (15.6%) than in the other disciplines (9.5%).
to study the relationships between potential risk factors and injury, the  authors chose a multiple logistic regression model with injury as the dependent  variable, and equipment, age, gender, ability, nationality, used rented  equipment, attended skiing instruction and helmet use as the adjustment  factors.
all p values are  two-tailed.
the main findings of the present study were that beginners, snowboarders,  children and adolescents were at increased overall risk of injury.
in this study, the proportion of shoulder injuries was highest among  telemark skiers (20%) compared to alpine and snowboarders (11% each).
the overall injury risk was increased among  beginners (or 2.72; 2.12 to 3.47), children (or 1.72; 1.41 to 2.13),  adolescents (or 2.16; 1.72 to 2.66) and non-nordic skiers (or 1.80; 1.37 to  2.36).
skiing ability was classified into four categories (beginner, intermediate, good or expert) based on self-reported performance of turns.12
for patients with multiple injuries (less than 1%), each injury was recorded as a separate case.
some authors claim that the injury rate for shoulder injuries is quite  similar between disciplines,7 26,–,28 while others have found a much  higher incidence among snowboarders than alpine skiers.29 30 these conclusions  are mostly based on studies without control groups.
the study was based on anonymised data from the norwegian  ski lift association injury and marketing research databases, and ethical  approval was not required by the regional committee for medical research ethics.
such patients were defined as potentially severe cases.
for lower leg fractures (table 5), beginners had a risk 2.5 times higher,  compared to non-beginners, and children under 12 years had a risk four times  higher than in adolescents and eleven times than in adult skiers.
an injury was recorded when a skier or snowboarder was treated by or  consulted with the ski patrol or first aid room staff after an accident in the  skiing area during skiing or lift transport.
none were found, and data are therefore not given.
obtaining a control group representative of all  skiers and snowboarders at risk is another difficult task.
an α level  of 0.05 was considered as statistically significant.
knee injuries occurred more frequently among alpine skiers (or 1.82; 1.39 to 2.38), females (or 1.67; 1.38 to 2.03) and beginners (or 3.13; 2.50 to 3.85).
in two other  studies without control groups, xianget al25 found no significant  differences in overall injury risk or admittance to hospital between skiers and  snowboarders, while dohjimaet al6 found that snowboarders had a 6  times higher injury risk.
to study the relationships between potential risk factors and injury, the authors chose a multiple logistic regression model with injury as the dependent variable, and equipment, age, gender, ability, nationality, used rented equipment, attended skiing instruction and helmet use as the adjustment factors.
potential confounding  by type of run or weekday of injury may have been accounted for, at least in  part, by factors adjusted for in the analysis, for example, nationality, skiing  ability, rented equipment and skiing instruction.
although the authors do not know how a stressful injury situation may  have affected how skiers report their skiing ability or ski instruction, most  other factors could be observed directly by the ski patrol.
view this table: in a new window table 2 crude and adjusted analyses of relationships between any injury and  potential risk factors (n=3040).
sacco et al24 found that alpine skiers and snowboarders were  equally prone to injury in an evaluation of skiing and snowboarding injuries  admitted to the local level 1 trauma center over a 6-year period, but without  any control material their conclusion is difficult to interpret.
however, while  snowboarders had a higher injury rate than skiers for injuries to the upper  body, they sustained fewer lower limb injuries than alpine skiers.
the interviews were  done every wednesday and saturday during the four winter months of 2002 by  personnel, who were not told the purpose of the study.
an α level of 0.05 was considered as statistically significant.