with skiing, each foot gets its own thinner ski and you face downward in the direction you’re headed.
which is faster to learn?
try these four tricks...
“it’s similar movement so you may catch on faster to snowboarding  than you would to skiing,” says savijarvi.
with either sport, the best place to launch your new sporting interest will likely beat a ski hill with the help of an instructor so you can master proper technique, cover the basics and not pick up on someone else’s incorrect snow sport habits.
check out these five...
workout gloves are a good...
and with both skiing and  snowboarding, your core and legs are the parts of your body experiencing the  biggest muscle boost.
» ever wonder how the stars stay in such great shape?
» need some healthy living inspiration for the new year?
you also have the benefit  of two ski poles to help maneuver you around and get up from a fall.
with snowboarding, your feet get strapped onto one wider board and you face sideways to the slope you’re headed downwards.
» don’t let your progress hit a standstill.
the american... » a trim waist and toned arms may be your initial motivation for working...
» is your workout routine failing to produce the results you're looking for?...
“it’s similar movement so you may catch on faster to snowboarding than you would to skiing,” says savijarvi.
how to get started with either sport, the best place to launch your new sporting interest will  likely beat a ski hill with the help of an instructor so you  can master proper technique, cover the basics and not pick up on someone  else’s incorrect snow sport habits.
this toning workout takes just 10-minutes to complete—warm-up and all!...
web exclusive: november 2009 select ratinggive it 1/5give it 2/5give
with snowboarding, your feet get strapped onto one wider  board and you face sideways to the slope you’re headed downwards.
and when it comes to falling down...well, you’ve got your hands—and that’s about it—to help you get back up.
comments are moderated for spam; so your comment may not appear immediately.
» we all know exercise is essential for good health – but it's all too...
“if you want to be a good skier or snowboarder quickly, go out and get  some lessons, break yourself into it slowly and use decent equipment.”
sign up for our free weekly newsletters and get nutritious recipes, healthy weight-loss tips, easy ways to stay in shape and all the health news you need, delivered straight to your inbox.
and  when it comes to falling down...well, you’ve got your hands—and  that’s about it—to help you get back up.
snowboarders can suffer from more  wrist injuries given the falling factor, and using their hands for support in  getting back up after they’ve tipped.
product testers subscribe text join the swap & drop diet revolution today and  find out how you could also win 1 of 29 prizes totaling over $4,000.00.
if you like skating (either on ice or rollerblading) or cross-country skiing, downhill skiing might be the better fit for you, says bowie.
“to you it might be more natural to stand on two skis because of what sports you enjoy than it is to be in that side position of standing on a board,” she says.
doing the same workout routine over and over is not only boring, but...
your email address is required for authentication purposes only.
web exclusive: november 2009select ratinggive it 1/5give it 2/5give
» two victoria friends stay in shape and in touch through bellyfit dance classes » this fitness trend is picking up in popularity.
snowboarders can suffer from more wrist injuries given the falling factor, and using their hands for support in getting back up after they’ve tipped.
» they aren't just for hard-core fitness buffs.
often you can compare sports to find out what you might like.
“that said, snowboarding is more painful because the injury rate in learning how to snowboard is greater than learning how to ski.”
“i find the learning curve for snowboarding is actually faster than with skiing,” says lauralee bowie, owner of vancouver-based  lauralee bowie ski adventures.
“if you want to be a good skier or snowboarder quickly, go out and get some lessons, break yourself into it slowly and use decent equipment.”
avoid these six common fitness...
“to you it might be more natural to stand on two skis because  of what sports you enjoy than it is to be in that side position of standing on  a board,” she says.
sign up for our free weekly newsletters and get nutritious recipes, healthy weight-loss tips, easy ways to stay in  shape and all the health news you need, delivered straight to your inbox.
» these climbers—and friends—get fit indoors, without having to worry...
“that said, snowboarding is more  painful because the injury rate in learning how to snowboard is  greater than learning how to ski.”
share your tips in the comments.
» no doubt about it, zooming around on the ice—whether indoors or out—is... »
having trouble fitting exercise into your busy life?
it 3/5give it 4/5give
» all you really need is 10 minutes to zap away extra calories and give your... » fans of tae kwon do find it benefits both physical and mental health
with skiing, each foot gets its own thinner ski and you  face downward in the direction you’re headed.
best health magazine © 2012 reader's digest magazines (canada) ltd.
in regina, cross-country skiing with friends and family is the ultimate...
you also have the benefit of two ski poles to help maneuver you around and get up from a fall.
get the truth on the pros and cons of snowboarding and skiing, and find  out which one you should tackle this winter by astrid van den broek whether you like snowboarding or skiing mostly comes down to  personal preference, says louis boudreault, the montreal-based  vice-president of sales and marketing north america for thenational snow  industries association.
so… if you like wakeboarding or surfing in the summertime, snowboarding will likely be a good sport for you.
“with skiing, you wear much harder ski boots rather than  the soft boots for snowboarding, which usually are more comfortable,”  says boudreault.
which do you prefer?
“with skiing, you wear much harder ski boots rather than the soft boots for snowboarding, which usually are more comfortable,” says boudreault.
snowboarding vs. skiing: which is right for you?
“the number one thing is your best friend shouldn’t go out and teach you how to ski or snowboard,” says savijarvi.
“the number one thing is your best friend shouldn’t go  out and teach you how to ski or snowboard,” says savijarvi.
» do you want to get in shape, but also save money?
find out if barefoot... » celebrity trainer jackie warner shows six moves that will tone and flatten...
how to tell which you'll prefer related features outdoor winter vacations in canada 7 reasons to exercise outdoors this winter 8 ways to become a better skier often you can compare sports to find out what you might like.
whether you like snowboarding or skiing mostly comes down to personal preference, says louis boudreault, the montreal-based vice-president of sales and marketing north america for thenational snow industries association.
home > get healthy > fitness >
if you like skating (either on ice or rollerblading) or  cross-country skiing, downhill skiing might be the better fit for you,  says bowie.
while the gear recommendations for both sports are similar—layered clothing, goggles, long gloves, a helmet—one difference is the boots.
snowboarding vs. skiing: which is  right for you?
» trip to stratford contest trip to rome contest best health swap & drop contest the best health atm share your tips and you could win!
» joining a gym for the first time or scouting out a new gym location can be...
and with both skiing and snowboarding, your core and legs are the parts of your body experiencing the biggest muscle boost.
while the gear recommendations for both sports are similar—layered  clothing, goggles, long gloves, a helmet—one difference is the  boots.
“i find the learning curve for snowboarding is actually faster than with skiing,” says lauralee bowie, owner of vancouver-based lauralee bowie ski adventures.