e-mail this page to a friend have a question about this destination?
if your condo has a kitchen, there is a grocery just a few minutes drive from the resort in the direction of north conway.
if you aredissatisfied with conditions after one run and within an hour of lift ticket purchase, you can return your ticket for a voucher fora future lift ticket more information on the resort and lodging atwww.attitash.com accommodations reservations (all locations): call 800-223-7669 (toll-free) information on children programs: 603-374-2677 or perfectturn@attitash.com attitash bear peak: p.o. box 308, bartlett, nh 03812, tel: 603.374.2368; 24 hr toll-freesnowphone: 877-677-snow (7669)
if your  condo has a kitchen, there is a grocery just a few minutes drive from the  resort in the direction of north conway.
the village of north conway is just a few minutes from the ski area.
around boston a few hours half day full day weekend/overnight go skiing in the white mountains at attitash sunscreen lip balm sun lotion painkiller granola bars or day snacks fanny pack or backpack goggles or serious sunglasses with strap helmet (strongly recommended forall ages)
two  of the lifts are high-speed quads, one regular quad, the rest are triples,
the village of north conway is just a few minutes from  the ski area.
attitash offers two linked  mountains – attitash itself and bear peak – with a range of terrain  for boarders and skiers.
bear peak has several glade areas that are usually  opened only after a good season of natural snow.
there are no dining facilities on the top of the slopes, but the lodge at the base of attitash offers cafeteria and bar service, and the grand summit hotel at the base of bear peak has a coffee shop and a restaurant that opens in the evenings.
the trails on bear peak offer a vertical drop of 1450 feet, attitash 1750 feet.
two of the lifts are high-speed quads, one regular quad, the rest are triples, doubles and surface lifts.
it is a reasonable location for lodging and dining options, conveniently located to attitash and many other snow sports areas.
it is a reasonable location for lodging and dining options,  conveniently located to attitash and many other snow sports areas.
snow sports equipment (can be rented at the resort) swimsuit, if staying at the grand summit resort groceries, if yourcondo has a kitchen and you prefer to eat in winter sports clothing waterproof jacket, snow pants, wool or sport socks waterproof gloves, glove straps for kids directions from boston: take route 95 north from boston in portsmouth nh, take the left lane exit 4 tothe spaulding turnpike (route 16 north)
for kids 13 and older, programs to learn skiing and snowboarding or to improve their skills for grown-ups, all-inclusive lessons are available for a day or on a multi-day basis for both skiing and snowboarding (see sidebar for details).
the most practical accommodation is the grand summit resort hotel, which has slopeside access.
the resort  features a 500 foot in-ground superpipe, open to skiers and snowboarders alike.
the resort has good children's lesson programs (all instruction  programs are open until end of march 2009): tiny turns instruction program  for kids 3-5 buddy bear instruction program for kids 4-6 (half day or full  day)
the resort offers twelve lifts across two peaks, leading to 70 trails.
what do our ratings mean?
overall, you will find 36% of the trails rated most difficult, 40% more difficult and 24% easier.
doubles and surface lifts.
follow route 16 all the way into new hampshire to the mount washington valley - conway village area in conway village, go through two sets oflights and take a left at the third light, continuing north on route 16 into glen, nh proceed straight through the light in glen toroute 302 west follow route 302 west 3 miles to the attitash base parking is on the left good to know in advance lifts operation: 8 am - 4 pm lift tickets (sun-fri/sat & holidays) for one day: adult (19+): $62/$69; young adult (13-18): $48/$54; junior (6-12) and senior: $39/$48 kids under 5 ski for free ski rentals (full day): adult $35, child $25 snowboard rentals (full day): adult $ 35, child $25 holiday periods: 12/25/08 to 1/1/09, 1/17 to1/19/09, 2/14 to 22/08 daycare center available for children 6 months to 6 years: full day (7:30 am - 4:30 pm): $65, half-day $40 tiny turns instruction program: $74 (1 hour) + $15 rentals buddy bear kids program (includes pass, clinic, supervision and lunch for full day): $79 full day, $59 half-day + $15 rentals adventure kids program: $79 full day, $59half-day + $15 rentals adult first experience ski or ride instruction(one day): $85 (includes rentals, lift ticketand clinic)
there are several great snow sports areas nearby, including bretton woods which offers night skiing, tubing and skating, black mountain and wildcat at jackson, cranmore with night skiing, tubing and snoeshowing at north conway, and king pine at east madison.
adventure kids program for kids 7-12 interested in skiing lowriders program for kids 7-12 interested in snowboarding
the resort has good children's lesson programs (all instruction programs are open until end of march 2009): tiny turns instruction program for kids 3-5 buddy bear instruction program for kids 4-6 (half day or full day)
attitash offers two linked mountains attitash itself and bear peak with a range of terrain for boarders and skiers.
bear peak has several glade areas that are usually opened only after a good season of natural snow.
in addition to the opportunity of skiing in the whites, the resort offers reasonably priced lift tickets that reflect the smaller scale and family focus of the place compared to mainstay resorts like sunday river or killington : full-day lift ticket prices (sun-fri) are free for those under five years, $39 for ages 6-12, $48 for ages 13-18, and $62 for adults.
in addition to the opportunity of skiing in  the whites, the resort offers reasonably priced lift tickets that reflect the  smaller scale and family focus of the place compared to mainstay resorts like  sunday river or killington : full-day lift ticket prices (sun-fri) are free for  those under five years, $39 for ages 6-12, $48 for ages 13-18, and $62 for  adults.
in case the weather isn't  cooperating, the resort claims to have 97% coverage of snowmaking.
- home - | - today's globe - | - news - | - business - | - sports - | - lifestyle - | - a&e - | - things to do - | - travel - | - cars - | - jobs - | - homes - | - local search - contact boston.com - | - feedback - | - advertise - | - work here - | - privacy statement - | - mobile - | - rss feeds - | - make boston.com your home page = - contact the boston globe - | - subscribe - | - manage your subscription - | - advertise - | - boston globe extras - | - boston globe store - | - © ny times co.
the resort features a 500 foot in-ground superpipe, open to skiers and snowboarders alike.
adult three perfect turn clinics (three days): $155 (includes rentals, lift tickets andclinics) attitash has a "snow guarantee".
in case the weather isn't cooperating, the resort claims to have 97% coverage of snowmaking.
the trails on bear peak offer a vertical drop of 1450 feet, attitash 1750  feet.
the most practical accommodation is the grand summit resort hotel, which  has slopeside access.
if you stop on the trail, make sure you are ina location that is unobstructed from the view of oncoming skiers and boarders
e-mail  this page to a   friend have a question about   this destination?
bring back your trash overall rating: difficulty: 3/5 time from boston: 2.5 to 3 hours duration: weekend/ overnight cost: from $62 per adult main activity: alpine skiing what do our ratings mean?
for kids 13 and  older, programs to learn skiing and snowboarding or to improve their skills for grown-ups, all-inclusive lessons are available for a day or  on a multi-day basis for both skiing and snowboarding (see sidebar for details).
reasonably priced lift tickets combined with a family-friendly atmosphere make it an attractive and accessible destination a 3-hour drive from boston takes you to the attitash/bear peak snow sports area in the heart of new hampshire.
as usual, the resort charges more on saturdays and holiday periods ($69  for an adult ticket).
as usual, the resort charges more on saturdays and holiday periods ($69 for an adult ticket).
reasonably priced lift tickets combined with a  family-friendly atmosphere make it an attractive and accessible destination a 3-hour drive from boston takes you to the attitash/bear peak snow sports  area in the heart of new hampshire.
there are no dining facilities on the top of the slopes, but the lodge at  the base of attitash offers cafeteria and bar service, and the grand summit  hotel at the base of bear peak has a coffee shop and a restaurant that opens in  the evenings.
etiquette obey the standard ski resort guidelines forcourtesy and safety on the slopes announce yourself when overtaking slower skiers stay courteous on the slopes, especially with skiers of different abilities and skill levels ski and ride in control people ahead on the trails have the right of way
overall, you will find 36% of the trails rated most difficult, 40% more  difficult and 24% easier.
there are several great snow sports areas nearby, including bretton woods  which offers night skiing, tubing and skating, black mountain and wildcat at  jackson, cranmore with night skiing, tubing and snoeshowing at north conway,  and king pine at east madison.
local search site search - home - today's globe - news - business - sports - lifestyle - a&e - things to do - travel - cars - jobs - homes - local search - explore new england - boston visitor's guide - destinations - vacation deals - lodging - flights freshair homepage new england hiking/ snowshoeing alpine skiing cross-country skiing mountaineering paddling walking relaxing camping biking for families mountains by the sea countryside -in &