that  morning, we woke up to a cloudless blue sky and the weatherman predicting that  it would remain that way throughout the day.
golf, hiking, mountain biking, rafting.
sports submitted by marissa d'orazio on  thu, 11/03/2011 - 19:01 colorado triple play pass announced the snow has started, and if you're still wondering how you can get your  fill, skiing and riding the most versatile terrain in colorado, look no  further.
march 12th rekindled vancouver, as almost 300  torchbearers ushered in the glow of the 2010 paralympics games, march 13-21.
not long after we  began, we passed a gnome, sitting quietly next to his pet chipmunk slightly off  the trail.
living the dream,” says challenge aspen  competition team coach john mcbride.
for me it is a rite of passage to  summit the peak that towers above the town in which i live.
driving  into theroaring fork valley one cannot miss the stunning view of this peak.
after about two hours of hiking under a canopy of yellow aspen  leaves, we reached thomas lakes.
not only does this help me to understand where my town lies in relation to the surrounding peaks and valleys, it also affords a familiarity with the mountain that makes gazing up at the peak even more enjoyable and meaningful.
still, though, if you come to colorado and just visit aspen, you’re missing out on a lot of what makes the centennial state so spectacular.
skiing submitted by jamie lynn miller on  sun, 08/29/2010 - 14:13 charlie macarthur brings stand-up paddling comes to aspen's riverways paddling around the whitewateraspen, co - charlie  macarthur, aspen’s all-around accomplished mountain man, has a new  fascination.
some things can only get accomplished out of cell range.
that’s why you live or  vacation here.
these days, he’s  combining key elements of nordic skiing, surfing and kayaking across aspen  whitewater, bringing the latest craze of stand-up paddling to local rivers,  inviting locals and visitors to jump aboard.
* * “how’s the course?” asks mudflap, lift operator extraordinaire and congenial mountain host, cooking up brats and award-winning chili at the base of tiehack during the week’s unseasonably warm race days.
a small pond between the two lakes was covered with a thin sheet of ice, reminding us that winter was on the way.
that’s why you live or vacation here.
and just over a week ago, challenge aspen hosted nearly 120 competitors from 20  countries on the slopes of buttermilk, for the last stop on the ipc alpine  world cup circuit.
view near summit of mount sopris:
rider guido martelli at steamboat view near summit of mount sopris: view near summit of mount sopris near the basalt.
i chose a date and invited some friends, sure that we would have to set  several dates before the weather cooperated and we were able to summit.
we drove to the trailhead munching peanut butter and apples, and energetically began the hike.
the snow has started, and if you're still wondering how you can get your fill, skiing and riding the most versatile terrain in colorado, look no further.
last weekend, i conquered mount sopris.
most of the time,  searching for service means i’m out climbing; no one wears a watch, cell  phones sleep and time, as i’ve said, stands still yet simultaneously fast  forwards through the day and you’re always late for something when you  finally get reception.
for me it is a rite of passage to summit the peak that towers above the town in which i live.
we all know that aspen has everything.
the roaring fork valley, by anyone’s estimation, is a scenic wonder, with towering peaks, verdant forests and bucolic meadows.
i chose a date and invited some friends, sure that we would have to set several dates before the weather cooperated and we were able to summit.
most of the time, searching for service means i’m out climbing; no one wears a watch, cell phones sleep and time, as i’ve said, stands still yet simultaneously fast forwards through the day and you’re always late for something when you finally get reception.
sports submitted by jamie lynn miller on  fri, 09/04/2009 - 16:52 climbing, falling and fall up independence pass: rock and ramblings, part 3 some things can only get accomplished out of cell range.
still, though, if you come to colorado and just visit aspen,  you’re missing out on a lot of what makes the centennial state so  spectacular.
living the dream,” says challenge aspen competition team coach john mcbride.
they were so still that we could see the twin  summits of mount sopris reflecting in the water.
in norwood it is lone cone mountain, in colorado springs it is pike’s peak, and in my new home of basalt it is mount sopris.
a small pond between the two  lakes was covered with a thin sheet of ice, reminding us that winter was on the  way.
rider guido martelli at steamboat
not only does this  help me to understand where my town lies in relation to the surrounding peaks  and valleys, it also affords a familiarity with the mountain that makes gazing  up at the peak even more enjoyable and meaningful.
learning to ski or snowboard is easy.
our midmorning snack refilled our tanks and allowed us to continue onward and upward, constantly marveling at the beauty of our fall-colored valley.
our midmorning snack refilled our tanks and allowed us to continue onward  and upward, constantly marveling at the beauty of our fall-colored valley.
despite its massive size, snowmass has relatively little in the way of beginner terrain, with just 6 percent of the runs bearing a green circle.
it offers snow sports enthusiasts the opportunity to catch fresh tracks at aspen/snowmass, steamboat and winter park resort.
in norwood it is lone cone mountain, in colorado springs it is  pike’s peak, and in my new home of basalt it is mount sopris.
joe tompkins shares the glorythis weekend, the flame was lit and the games began, again.
this is the ultimate  multi-mountain access ski pass for the 2011-2012 season.
and just over a week ago, challenge aspen hosted nearly 120 competitors from 20 countries on the slopes of buttermilk, for the last stop on the ipc alpine world cup circuit.
carbondale, co - in most of the colorado  mountain towns where i have lived, there is one peak that dominates the  skyline.
introducing the all new colorado triple play.
“it’s a little soft today for  ski racing, but for watching a ski race in the blazing sun?
this is the ultimate multi-mountain access ski pass for the 2011-2012 season.
snowboarding submitted by jessica.
submitted by jamie lynn miller on  sun, 03/14/2010 - 23:44 challenge aspen hosts ipc alpine world cup - next stop, the paralympic  games in whistler joe tompkins shares the glorythis weekend, the flame was  lit and the games began, again.
there really isn’t much need to go anywhere else.
it more than makes up for this shortcoming, however, with thousands of acres of some of the best intermediate trails to be found anywhere, including many runs that are suitable for skiers with a just a few days’ experience under their belts.
but as anyone who has ever visited the maroon bells can tell you, the side valleys in this area can be even more spectacular.
they were so still that we could see the twin summits of mount sopris reflecting in the water.
there really isn’t much need to  go anywhere else.
it rises over 6,000 feet in less than three miles to its twin summits, both at exactly the same height of 12,965 feet.
“it’s a little soft today for ski racing, but for watching a ski race in the blazing sun?
“how’s the course?” asks mudflap, lift operator  extraordinaire and congenial mountain host, cooking up brats and award-winning  chili at the base of tiehack during the week’s unseasonably warm race  days.
repeat eight hours a day, seven days a week until mommy and daddy’s money runs out or christmas break is over.
view near summit of  mount sopris near the basalt.
that morning, we woke up to a cloudless blue sky and the weatherman predicting that it would remain that way throughout the day.
driving into theroaring fork valley one cannot miss the stunning view of this peak.
he’s taught kayaking for decades, and paddled first ascents through river waterways throughout both the rocky mountains and hawaii; he’s taught telemarking, alpine skiing and snowboarding in aspen and snowmass for 27 years, and raced his surf ski through 36 miles of open ocean in the prestigious hawaiian moloka’i channel race.
paddling around the whitewateraspen, co - charlie macarthur, aspen’s all-around accomplished mountain man, has a new fascination.
it offers snow sports  enthusiasts the opportunity to catch fresh tracks at aspen/snowmass, steamboat  and winter park resort.
©2011 morris communications llc.
great skiing, great shopping, great music, great restaurants.
first, be under 21.then slip, slide, tumble and bruise your way down the most difficult trail on the highest mountain you can find.
it  rises over 6,000 feet in less than three miles to its twin summits, both at  exactly the same height of 12,965 feet.
march 12th rekindled vancouver, as almost 300 torchbearers ushered in the glow of the 2010 paralympics games, march 13-21.
he’s taught kayaking for decades, and paddled first ascents  through river waterways throughout both the rocky mountains and hawaii;  he’s taught telemarking, alpine skiing and snowboarding in aspen and  snowmass for 27 years, and raced his surf ski through 36 miles of open ocean in  the prestigious hawaiian moloka’i channel race.
hiking submitted by todd hartley on tue,  03/24/2009 - 05:41 day trips: black canyon of the gunnison we all know that aspen has everything.
though it’s home to espn’s winter x games and has one of the most fearsome terrain parks to be found anywhere, buttermilk is still, at its heart, an exceptional beginner’s mountain.
we drove to the trailhead munching  peanut butter and apples, and energetically began the hike.
not long after we began, we passed a gnome, sitting quietly next to his pet chipmunk slightly off the trail.
friend us follow us if you’ve just arrived in aspen, and you’ve never been on skis before, buttermilk is far and away your best choice to learn how to ski.
olson on sun,  10/03/2010 - 00:41 conquering mount sopris near basalt, co.
these days, he’s combining key elements of nordic skiing, surfing and kayaking across aspen whitewater, bringing the latest craze of stand-up paddling to local rivers, inviting locals and visitors to jump aboard.
carbondale, co - in most of the colorado mountain towns where i have lived, there is one peak that dominates the skyline.
after about two hours of hiking under a canopy of yellow aspen leaves, we reached thomas lakes.