and don’t forget those thermal  socks to keep your feet warm.
layer number three should be a windproof, water-repellent ski jacket.
if you don't have room for bulky ski clothing in your suitcase, new  zealand offers a myriad of rental shops on and off the mountains.
freestyle boards popular with beginners, freestyle boards are short, wide and flexible, with identical tail and nose.
it’s best to choose materials that draw moisture away such as polypropylene.
when flying into new zealand from overseas you’ll have to take extra  costs for getting your ski gear on the plane into consideration as well.
for your base layer thermal underwear is the best choice as it’s worn  next to the skin.
finally,  pull on accessories to protect hands, head and eyes.
when flying into new zealand from overseas you’ll have to take extra costs for getting your ski gear on the plane into consideration as well.
every ski season new skis and snowboards are developed and so you’re spoilt for choice.
firstly, think about your preferred style.
choosing the right gear is not just about deciding whether you’re a  skier or snowboarder!
picking the right equipment starts with basic clothing  and goes all the way to choosing between various board and ski styles.
stays--home stays--lodges -holiday homes-holiday parks-hotel accommodation-self contained & serviced --apartments--cottages--motels--villasactivities-activities & attractions --adrenaline
for your base layer thermal underwear is the best choice as it’s worn next to the skin.
eyes to avoid snow blindness (and worse!)
snowboard styles alpine or race boards thin and stable with a tail almost  flat, alpine or race boards enable fast turns and high velocity.
you want to be able to adapt to temperature and weather changes on the slopes without getting too cold or too hot, and so your snow clothing should consist of three layers.
divide the cost of the equipment by your  number of snow days per year – you’ll see how long you’ll  need to keep your ski gear before it’s more cost-effective than renting.
here are a few pointers that will make your choice easier.
pumping--air activities---ballooning---gliding---paragliding ---skydiving---flight-seeing---glacier flightseeing--arts, culture & heritage---arts & crafts (taonga)---cultural attractions---film & theatre---galleries---heritage attractions---maori culture---museums ---performing arts--attractions---aquariums & underwater observatories ---casinos---farm experiences---gardens---observatories---spa, thermal pools & health resorts---theme & leisure parks---urban & scenic attractions---volcanic & geothermal---wineries & breweries---zoos & wildlife parks--education---educational institutions---food & wine classes ---language classes--land activities---4wd---abseiling & rappelling---bungy ---caving---canyoning---climbing---cycling & mountain biking---glacier encounters---golf---heli-skiing---hiking & walking---horse treks---hunting ---luging---miscellaneous activities---mountaineering---sightseeing---skiing & snowboarding---zorbing--water activities---boat cruises---canyoning ---diving & snorkelling---fishing---jet boating---canoeing & kayaking ---punting---rafting---sailing---sledging---surfing--wildlife encounters---bird watching---dolphins---kiwi---other wildlife---penguins---seals---whale watching ---zoos & wildlife parks-sights--coastal highlights--gardens, parks & reserves--history & culture--islands--lakes & rivers--natural phenomena --scenic views--walks & trails-tours--4wd tours--adventure tours --backpacker tours--cultural tours--cycling tours--eco tours--educational tours --food & wine tours--independent tours--motorcycle tours--package tours --personal tours--sightseeing tours--special interest tours--travel planners --walking toursfood,wine-food & wine--bars & nightclubs--cafés & restaurants--grocery & gourmet food stores--wineries & breweries --produce markets-shopping--arts & crafts--fashion--food & wine --jewellery--markets--retail centres & department stores--souvenirs --specialty storesservices and business-childcare-hair & beauty-clubs & organisations-conventions & incentives--venues with accommodation--venues without accommodation--professional conference organisers--convention bureaux --convention related services--destination management--incentives-education -employment-event organisers-health & fitness-immigration-insurance & finance-internet services-miscellaneous services & business-photography -relocation & real estate-travel planners & booking service-visitor information services--i-site visitor information network --other visitor information-wedding servicestransport-air-vehicle sales-buses, coaches & shuttles-car rental-cruise ships-custom transfers-cycling-ferries, water taxis & cruises-motorcycles-motorhome rental-rail-taxis & limousines personal create your profile newsletters receive the latest updates from destination-nz.com travel planner save listings and events to your favourites share your favourites with others
although helmets are advisable for everyone they are particularly important for ski newbies and freestylers.
to see whether it’s cheaper to rent or buy your ski gear, you have to figure out the cost-per-use ratio.
they are good for high-speed carving and suitable for a variety of conditions.
divide the cost of the equipment by your number of snow days per year – you’ll see how long you’ll need to keep your ski gear before it’s more cost-effective than renting.
interactive share your travel experiences upload photos and write your own stories comment on our blogs get talking in our travel forum maps regional maps itineraries national north island south island themed distances distance charts browse and book online accommodation activities transport services my.destination-nz share travel information save listings and events to your favourites share your favourites with otherssign up now!
fleece dries quicker than wool and mittens are warmer than gloves.
always wear  sunglasses that filter 100% of uv rays or a ski mask.
freeride  skis slice through slush and float through powder.
your middle layer should be fleece or  wool, trapping warm air next to your body.
they’re a good choice for heli snowboarding and also essential for getting air in the terrain park and half-pipe.
if you don't have room for bulky ski clothing in your suitcase, new zealand offers a myriad of rental shops on and off the mountains.
shorter snowboards are also the plank of choice for freestyle riders doing a lot of tricks.
when you’re heading up to new zealand’s ski areas there’s one basic rule: you should dress like an onion with lots of layers!
always wear sunglasses that filter 100% of uv rays or a ski mask.
these planks are brilliant in tough conditions.
listing accommodation-backpackers-exclusive-guest & hosted--bed & breakfast--boutique accommodation --farm
the binding on telemark skis, an increasingly popular style, fastens only at the toe.
rent or buy ski gear?
hands choose waterproof, durable, padded gloves to keep  you warm.
head up to 90% of body heat is lost through your head, so wrap up warm with a hat (with earflaps), beanie or at least a headband.
when you’re heading up to new zealand’s ski areas there’s  one basic rule: you should dress like an onion with lots of layers!
login register the 2011 edition of our destination-nz.com visitor guide is here!
if your feet get wet and cold you’ll  struggle to get warm no matter how many layers you’re wearing!
and don’t forget those thermal socks to keep your feet warm.
to block light at the  sides, glasses should wrap around the face and you should always carry a spare  pair in case you lose your good ones!
but the massive range of ski and snowboard designs can also  be a bit daunting.
longer snowboards and skis are slightly  more difficult to manoeuvre and are best for more aggressive riders and skiers.
precise and  fast, their bindings securely fasten the feet at heels and toes.
be careful: while it might seem that  darker glasses offer more protection that’s not necessarily the case.
they’re perfect forheli skiing!
if  you feel that mittens can be awkward, why not try a three-finger mitt?
skis and snowboards every ski season new skis and snowboards are developed and so you’re  spoilt for choice.
be careful: while it might seem that darker glasses offer more protection that’s not necessarily the case.
hands choose waterproof, durable, padded gloves to keep you warm.
invaluable to new zealand travellers, particularly if you are wanting to travel independently and make your own plans.
freeride boards freeride boards are versatile semi-rigid boards,  longer and taller than the freestyle.
great on all types of terrain.
the binding on telemark skis, an increasingly popular style,  fastens only at the toe.
your middle layer should be fleece or wool, trapping warm air next to your body.
alpine or race boards thin and stable with a tail almost flat, alpine or race boards enable fast turns and high velocity.
order now!sign up for newsletter
precise and fast, their bindings securely fasten the feet at heels and toes.
ph: +64 3 366 3340, email: mail@tmlpublishing.com, all rights reserved.
bloginside word ski & snowboard gear guide you are in: home › new zealand  info › things to do in new zealand › skiing & snowboarding  ›ski & snowboard gear guide
freestyle boards popular with beginners, freestyle boards are  short, wide and flexible, with identical tail and nose.
they’re a good  choice for heli snowboarding and also essential for getting air in the terrain  park and half-pipe.
if you feel that mittens can be awkward, why not try a three-finger mitt?
get our free new zealand newsletter our partner sites: trade | forum | brown bear © 1997 - 2010 destination-nz.com.
to block light at the sides, glasses should wrap around the face and you should always carry a spare pair in case you lose your good ones!
head up to 90% of body heat is lost through your head, so  wrap up warm with a hat (with earflaps), beanie or at least a headband.
long johns might not make a fashion statement but they definitely keep you warm and dry.
use the search box below to find travel operators by category or town.
if your feet get wet and cold you’ll struggle to get warm no matter how many layers you’re wearing!
longer snowboards and skis are slightly more difficult to manoeuvre and are best for more aggressive riders and skiers.
alpine skis are good for hard-groomed pistes.
although helmets are advisable for everyone they are particularly important for  ski newbies and freestylers.
powderhound  planks the fat powderhound skis are designed for deep powder and  cut-up, soft snow.
it’s best to choose materials that draw  moisture away such as polypropylene.
choosing the right gear is not just about deciding whether you’re a skier or snowboarder!
freeride skis slice through slush and float through powder.
the fat powderhound skis are designed for deep powder and cut-up, soft snow.
shorter snowboards are also the plank of choice for  freestyle riders doing a lot of tricks.
finally, pull on accessories to protect hands, head and eyes.
you want to  be able to adapt to temperature and weather changes on the slopes without  getting too cold or too hot, and so your snow clothing should consist of three  layers.
to see whether it’s cheaper to rent or buy your ski gear, you have to  figure out the cost-per-use ratio.
usually professionals recommend  shorter skis and snowboards for beginners because they don’t go too fast  and are easier to handle.
long johns might not make a fashion statement but they  definitely keep you warm and dry.
skiing & snowboarding jeff the kiwi snow tips new zealand heli skiing new zealand ski areas overview planning your ski holiday ski & snowboard new zealand fast facts new zealand info
freeride boards freeride boards are versatile semi-rigid boards, longer and taller than the freestyle.
usually professionals recommend shorter skis and snowboards for beginners because they don’t go too fast and are easier to handle.
picking the right equipment starts with basic clothing and goes all the way to choosing between various board and ski styles.
layer number three should be a  windproof, water-repellent ski jacket.
but the massive range of ski and snowboard designs can also be a bit daunting.
ski styles alpine skis alpine skis are good for hard-groomed pistes.