sometimes described as ‘the new zealander's queenstown’, wanaka is less commercial, smaller and quieter though there are still plenty of nice restaurants and bars.
queenstown's closest skifields are coronet peak and the remarkables: coronet peak - a 20-minute drive from queenstown - has a social european  feel with a bar, licensed restaurant and live outdoor music.
when queenstown isn't focusing on winter activities, it's the capital of  adventure tourism.
snow-cat (snow caterpillar) skiing is an innovation offered at mount potts,  one of the new zealand's highest skifields.
this major tourist town - magnificently sited on  lake wakatipu at the foot of the remarkables mountains - is filled with  designer stores, restaurants, nightclubs and cafés that vibrate  adventure, activity and enthusiasm.
wanaka an hour's drive from queenstown, the little  town of wanaka sits on the shores of lake wanaka.
first to  open each winter, it's popular with locals who gather at the town of methven  when they're not skiing.
some new  zealand tour operators cater to this market, and options for going off-piste  increase each season.
each area has its own distinctive character - some specialising in family holidays, others definitely better suited to the more adventurous skier.
each area has its own distinctive  character - some specialising in family holidays, others definitely better  suited to the more adventurous skier.
around mount hutt and christchurch, and all the way down to queenstown are  the smaller ‘club fields’.
(note that the human-triggered avalanche risk can be high with back country skiing - consult local guides if going alone and always take emergency locator equipment.)
both ski areas offer similar terrain and facilities.
this major tourist town - magnificently sited on lake wakatipu at the foot of the remarkables mountains - is filled with designer stores, restaurants, nightclubs and cafés that vibrate adventure, activity and enthusiasm.
for the more intrepid,  there's the opportunity to hike up to the active crater lake on top of the  mountain.
mt dobson is near the small rural town of fairlie, and 40 minutes from  lake tekapo.
queenstown queenstown is new zealand's best known winter holiday destination.
getting there by helicopter is a popular choice.
mount hutt and the 'club fields' further north near  christchuch, the mount hutt ski area enjoys the longest snow season.
snow conditions and terrain vary greatly, and there are some great spots off-the-beaten track: the best way to get a taste of the back country is with a guide.
snow conditions and terrain vary greatly, and there are some great spots  off-the-beaten track: craigieburn, with a vertical drop of 500 metres, has cult status  internationally, and is a favourite of extreme ski legend glen plake.
some club skifields,  such as ohau and temple basin, have good facilities but generally these ski  areas are for more adventurous sports enthusiasts.
mount potts has had snowboarding legend terje haakonsen singing its  praises.
the treble cone terrain is more  difficult than cardrona, but it's usually less crowded because of this.
wanaka's two nearby skifields are at cardrona and treble cone: mount hutt and the 'club fields' further north near christchuch, the mount hutt ski area enjoys the longest snow season.
the remarkables ski area presents a more adventurous terrain - the sports  enthusiast's option, providing some of the best and most challenging skiing in  new zealand.
the famous bungy jump was born there and, aside from skiing  and snowboarding, there is a myriad of activities to occupy visitors such as  jet boats, motorbikes, fine central otago wines, horse riding, mountain  climbing, hiking, white-water rafting and other bungy-inspired thrills.
north island winter adventures tongariro national park extends across much of the central north island  volcanic plateau - a surreal landscape of colourful sunsets, ever-changing  cloud formations and vast black volcanic desert sands inhabited by low scrubby  vegetation.
dozens of different ski areas and winter sports resorts are located in this immense and spectacular mountain region.
these topics may also be of interest to you adventure
some club skifields, such as ohau and temple basin, have good facilities but generally these ski areas are for more adventurous sports enthusiasts.
there's a good mix for all abilities, from the almost-flat field that is happy valley for beginners to the trickier gullies accessed by the highest t-bars.
at mount potts, where up to 14 guests get an area the size of mount hutt all to  themselves, a specially adapted snow-cat is used like a chair lift, taking  clients to the top of a slope and picking them up again at the bottom.
snow park, in the pisa range - between wanaka and queenstown - is renowned  internationally for the challenging terrain that makes it popular with young  free-riders.
the ski areas on a  series of gullies are well equipped for beginners, and usually busy.
snow dusted in winter,  mount ruapehu is the location for the skifields of turoa and whakapapa.
treble cone's skifields overhang the aquamarine lake with its tiny  snow-covered islands and mountain backdrop.
the famous bungy jump was born there and, aside from skiing and snowboarding, there is a myriad of activities to occupy visitors such as jet boats, motorbikes, fine central otago wines, horse riding, mountain climbing, hiking, white-water rafting and other bungy-inspired thrills.
mt dobson is near the small rural town of fairlie, and 40 minutes from lake tekapo.
coronet  peak also offers night skiing when crowds of skiers glide down the slopes under  evening lights, and the hot gluhwein flows.
two small villages - one on each side of the mountain - and a town further  away cater to the skifields with pubs, clubs, restaurants and accommodation: national park village - on the whakapapa side - has the park headquarters  with information about the area and, further up the mountain, glamorous  tongariro chateau, an historic hotel complete with ballroom and indoor swimming  pool.
the best way to get a taste of the back country is with a guide.
snow dusted in winter, mount ruapehu is the location for the skifields of turoa and whakapapa.
these private patches of mountain are managed by individual ski clubs but open to the public.
at mount potts, where up to 14 guests get an area the size of mount hutt all to themselves, a specially adapted snow-cat is used like a chair lift, taking clients to the top of a slope and picking them up again at the bottom.
around mount hutt and christchurch, and all the way down to queenstown are the smaller ‘club fields’.
three active volcanoes - ruapehu, tongariro and ngauruhoe - like a giant set of triplets rise high above this harsh environment.
mount dobson, in the mt cook mackenzie region, is a family-owned ski-field  that caters for all levels of skiers.
there's a good mix for  all abilities, from the almost-flat field that is happy valley for beginners to  the trickier gullies accessed by the highest t-bars.
snow-cats, often used for grooming the pistes, are tractors designed to travel over snow and up steep gradients.
this can involve anything from one ride and one run down a spectacular, untouched slope to a luxury champagne lunch during a day of uncrowded bliss.
rainbow offers amazing views of lake rotoiti.
snow-cats, often used for grooming  the pistes, are tractors designed to travel over snow and up steep gradients.
nz skiing /snowboarding destinations south island winter adventures new zealand's southern alps - a series of mountain chains extending the  length of the south island and rising to 2000m (6562 feet) - are more extensive  than the swiss, french and austrian alps combined.
tongariro national park extends across much of the central north island volcanic plateau - a surreal landscape of colourful sunsets, ever-changing cloud formations and vast black volcanic desert sands inhabited by low scrubby vegetation.
latest news from the media website sign up for email updates sign up search featuressearch features keywords: new zealand's southern alps - a series of mountain chains extending the length of the south island and rising to 2000m (6562 feet) - are more extensive than the swiss, french and austrian alps combined.
it's here that kiwi film director chose to set the scene for the dramatic battle of mordo inlord of the rings.
queenstown queenstown is new zealand's best known  winter holiday destination.
the hills have wide open  slopes for learners or intermediate skiers, and facilities include 'magic  carpet' moving walkways that are easier than t-bars for beginners.
it's also  the home of the nz national snowboard championships, offering half pipes and a  terrain park.
the resort has 55km of ski trails and 310ha of back country skiing  terrain.
the 400ha skiable terrain ranges from the  largest learning slope in southern new zealand to challenging off-piste powder  runs.
back country going ‘back  country’ - or off-piste - leaving the crowds behind appeals to skiers or  snowboarders prepared to hike, climb, camp and snowshoe their way into the  wilderness to find their own ungroomed snow paradise.
ohakune - on the turoa side - is a lively village of shops, cafés  and bars that's also the centre of new zealand's carrot-growing region.
mount dobson, in the mt cook mackenzie region, is a family-owned ski-field that caters for all levels of skiers.
some new zealand tour operators cater to this market, and options for going off-piste increase each season.
snow-cat (snow caterpillar) skiing is an innovation offered at mount potts, one of the new zealand's highest skifields.
these private patches of mountain are  managed by individual ski clubs but open to the public.
first to open each winter, it's popular with locals who gather at the town of methven when they're not skiing.
the 50-minute walk up to temple basin guarantees uncrowded slopes and  challenges for good skiers.
the thermal turangi area has natural spa hot pools, excellent for a long  after-ski soak.
three active volcanoes - ruapehu, tongariro and ngauruhoe - like a giant  set of triplets rise high above this harsh environment.
when queenstown isn't focusing on winter activities, it's the capital of adventure tourism.
the 400ha skiable terrain ranges from the largest learning slope in southern new zealand to challenging off-piste powder runs.
two small villages - one on each side of the mountain - and a town further away cater to the skifields with pubs, clubs, restaurants and accommodation: related linksrelated links
for the more intrepid, there's the opportunity to hike up to the active crater lake on top of the mountain.
sometimes described as  ‘the new zealander's queenstown’, wanaka is less commercial,  smaller and quieter though there are still plenty of nice restaurants and bars.
dozens of different ski areas and winter sports resorts are located in this  immense and spectacular mountain region.
this can involve anything  from one ride and one run down a spectacular, untouched slope to a luxury  champagne lunch during a day of uncrowded bliss.
(note that the human-triggered  avalanche risk can be high with back country skiing - consult local guides if  going alone and always take emergency locator equipment.)
it's here that kiwi film director chose to set the scene for the  dramatic battle of mordo inlord of the rings.
wanaka's two nearby skifields are at cardrona and treble cone: cardrona has a family environment with a giant toy clock tower, several  restaurants and special facilities for children.
queenstown's closest skifields are coronet peak and the remarkables: wanaka an hour's drive from queenstown, the little town of wanaka sits on the shores of lake wanaka.