combine this  with a pronated orthotic and you get some really interesting results the point about ff varus posts has always caused an argument, however as pf3  says the foot remains in midstance.
user name remember me? password home forums marketplace table of contents events member list site map register mark forums read podiatry arena »
basically, in order to be an effective alpine skier, the individual must  be able to generate force between the medial edge of the downhill ski and the  snow surface.
when making a ski turn,  the skier must lean into toward the center of the turn's radius in order to  keep their center of mass (com) in line with the srf vector.
one of my students, who had been a ski boot  fitter before podiatry school, and i did a paper on ski boot fitting many years  ago.
finding your way around: browse the forums.
cem send a private message to cem visit cem's homepage!
the best "natural" alpine  skiers tend to have rigid forefoot valgus type feet or, another way of saying  this, is that their foot have increased medial column dorsiflexion stiffness.
all times are gmt -7.
thanks: 117 thanked 988 times in 602 posts quote: originally posted by cem what on earth is the point of casting them in a pronated position!!!
poster (mvp)   about:  join  date: nov 2004 posts: 5,409 join date: nov 2004  marketplace  reputation 0%(0)
location: oxford uk posts: 60   join date: jan 2005  marketplace reputation 0% (0) thanks: 0 thanked 2 times in 2 posts just to add to the above,  i think it was kevin kirby that said "skiing is one of the only sports  were everyone could benefit from an orthotic" i am sure he would  agree that it needs to be suitable for the patient and well made!
this type of  boot design is highly desirable in patients with tibial varum.
i will use polypropylene orthoses, generally about  3/16" thick, with full length spenco topcover, flat rearfoot posts, casted  in stj neutral, and often times with a forefoot varus extension to get the  medial forefoot to be able to bear good weight onto the boot bottom.
registered users do not get displayed the advertisments in posted messages.
along with some  of my skier students, we also did some preliminary research on ski biomechanics  during my biomechanics fellowship.
powered by vbulletin® version 3.6.11 copyright ©2000 - 2012, jelsoft enterprises ltd.
send a private  message to pf 3 find all posts by pf 3 # 8 13th december 2005, 01:14 am cem senior member   about:  join date: jan 2005 location:  oxford uk posts: 60  join date: jan 2005  marketplace reputation 0% (0) thanks: 0
registration is fast, simple and absolutely free so please, join our global podiatry community today!
online running shoe rx general general issues and discussion forum latest rheumatology news latest top health care news stories latest dermatology news biomechanics, sports and foot orthoses foot orthotic consensus project latest sports medicine news diabetic foot & wound management latest diabetes medicine research & news diabetic
contact us - faq's - advertise - member map - tags - ispy - site map - news - podiatry classifieds - gallery - rss feed - stats - privacy - podiatry arena - archive - podiatry arena © copyright 2003-2010 all rights reserved.
japma, 76: 572-576, 1986).
foot orthoses nearly always can be made to make the  skier more efficient since the foot orthosis can be used to optimize the  foot-boot sole interface to allow more efficient weight transfer between the  medial foot to the ski.
by joining ourfree global community of podiatrists and other interested foot health care professionals you will have access to post podiatry topics (answer and ask questions), communicate privately with other members (pm), upload content, view attachments, receive a weekly email update of new discussions,earn cpd points and access many other special features.
you are currently viewing our podiatry forum as a guest which gives you limited access to view all podiatry discussions and access our other features.
content published on podiatry arena requires permission for reprint.
another  alternative is to add a "cant" between the binding and ski in  patients with tibial varum.
if you have any problems with the registration process or your account login, please contact contact us.
in 17 years of working with  skiers of all levels from novice to world cup racers casting in a neutral  postion with an orthoses designed for skiers has always worked for me alpine (downhill) skiing is a very interesting sport when it comes to the  function of the foot.
one of the worst types of feet for alpine skiiing are those that have  "overflexible" medial columns where the medial forefoot will simply  dorsiflex with increasing plantar force acting on it (i.e. low medial column  dorsiflexion stiffness).
tags: skiing foot orthoses and skiing page 1 of 3 1 2 3 > submit thread >  « previous thread | next thread » thread tools show printable version email this page display modes linear mode switch to hybrid mode switch to threaded mode posting rules you may not post new threads you may not post replies you may not post attachments you may not edit your posts vb code is on smilies are on [img] code is on html code is off forum jump user control panel private messages subscriptions who's online search forums forums home community introductions announcements technical support frequently asked questions help, suggestions, comments and ideas private groups f-scan user group feeds from other forums foot health forum student doctor network gout
however, many ski shops don't like doing this  because it may alter the release mechanism of the binding which may increase  the liability of the ski shop if an injury occurs with the canted binding.
if they don't,  then they will become unstable and fall.
firm medial forefoot force transmitted to the boot, binding and then to  the medial edge of the ski is necessary to initiate and hold an edge during a  alpine ski turn.
most of these feet will have difficulty initiating and  maintaining a ski turn since, in order to generate sufficient srf on the medial  edge of the ski, they must internally rotate and adduct their knee excessively  to try to get their medial forefoot to generate enough force on the boot  bottom.
the most  common problem i see is people in this position with badly made ski shop  orthoses (sorry footbeds in most cases) with pain from the medial ankle and the  lateral forefoot hitting the shell of the boot.
biomechanics, sports and foot orthoses foot orthoses and skiing welcome to thepodiatry arena forums, for communication between foot health professionals about podiatry and related topics.
the force that the snow exerts on the ski, orsnow reaction  force (srf) will bend the ski, which, along with the frontal plane  angle of the ski relative to the snow surface, will help generate the forces  necessary to allow the skier to make a turn.
unfortunately, to my knowledge, this paper from 19 years ago is still the  only paper published in the podiatric literature on ski boot fitting (santoro  jp, kirby ka: boot fitting problems in the skier.
because of this lean, the skier's legs  will naturally have an angulation with the snow surface in order to counteract  the effects of the centripetal force from the turn.
the shell of the boot (i.e. boot cuff) may, in some alpine ski boots, be able  to be adjusted in the frontal plane relative to the boot bottom.
and any time i used a lab built orthoses  the best successes have been with full forefoot correction and a narrow grind,  never the less i still see clients with some massively over sized orthotics  from their doctor to put into ski boots, as a plea to these doctors please  either learn to understand the biomechanics and fit of a ski boot or reffer  your patients to someone who does.
foot resources diabetic foot blog foot surgery pediatrics gerontology gerontology resources conferences conference listings practice management practice management newsfeed podiatry employment employment in the usa employment in the united kingdom employment in ireland employment in australia employment in canada employment in new zealand employment in south africa journals online podiatry and related books teaching and learning country specific issues usa student doctor network american medical association news usa conferences & events employment in the usa canada canada conferences & events employment in canada united kingdom united kingdom health care news united kingdom conferences & events employment in the united kingdom australia australia health care news australia conferences & events employment in australia new zealand new zealand conferences & events employment in new zealand south africa south africa conferences & events employment in south africa español misc news break room computer geeks podiatry trivia podiatry arena help, suggestions, comments and ideas podiatry arena technical support podiatry arena weekly newsletter translate this page english to german english to dutch english to spanish english to french english to italian english to portuguese english to korean english to japanese english to arabic german to english german to dutch german to spanish german to french german to italian german to portuguese german to korean german to japanese german to arabic dutch to english dutch to german dutch to spanish dutch to french dutch to italian dutch to portuguese dutch to korean dutch to japanese dutch to arabic spanish to english spanish to german spanish to dutch spanish to french spanish to italian spanish to portuguese spanish to korean spanish to japanese spanish to arabic french to english french to german french to dutch french to spanish french to italian french to portuguese french to korean french to japanese french to arabic italian to english italian to german italian to dutch italian to spanish italian to french italian to portuguese italian to korean italian to japanese italian to arabic similar threads thread thread starter forum replies last post hard orthosis crushing soft soles jbwheele biomechanics, sports and foot orthoses 2 15th july 2005 12:19 am new to site?
find all posts by cem # 10 13th december 2005, 09:15 pm kevin kirby podiatry arena veteran  most valuable
one of the first lectures i did during my biomechanics  fellowship at ccpm was on the biomechanics of downhill skiing.
there's much more to talk about, but that's all for now.
the time now is01:52 pm.
find  all posts by cem #9 13th december 2005, 01:17 am cem senior member    about:  join date: jan 2005
thanked 2 times in 2 posts one  of the interesting and often annoying things about most ski boots is that the  shaft (cuff) of the boot is set at an angle, not the forward lean angle but a  lateral angle of (depending on the make and model) approx 1-2.5 degrees  inverted the average on a mens boot being 1.5degrees.
to participate - view forum leaders - contact us - frequently asked questions - did you forget your password?
cem send a private message to cem visit  cem's homepage!
attached images  alpine skiing2.jpg (50.9 kb, 668 views) __________________
see the attached lecture  slide from 20+ years ago when we used this antiquated technology called 35 mm  kodachrome for our lectures.