did you know snowboarding and downhill skiing are among the top three causes of injury  related to snow and ice activities.
wear  layers of clothes and pack extra hats and mitts.
if your child or teen is new to skiing, sign him up for lessons with a certified instructor.
safety starts with the right equipment wear the proper equipment including a helmet and goggles,  or wrist guards for snowboarding.
k1g 4j8 phone: 613-526-9397, fax: 613-526-3332 copyright © 2012 -
- be aware of physical and environmental hazards like trees or icy patches on the trail.
if you don’t have equipment of your own, rent it from a reputable ski shop or resort, and make sure that the boots fit and the binding are adjusted correctly.
canadian paediatric society www.cps.ca - info@cps.ca this site complies to the honcode standard for trustworthy health information:verify here.
teach your child or teen that it’s important that he try more difficult slopes gradually and only as his skills get better.
among young skiers, injuries happen most often to beginners, often on  their first day.
the number of brain and spinal cord injuries resulting from skiing and  snowboarding is increasing worldwide.
- don’t borrow equipment.
preventing serious head  injuries is everyone’s job, not matter your age.
but each year, children and adults are injured while involved in these sports, and sometimes the injuries are very serious.
ask older children to check in regularly with an adult.
canadian paediatric society 2305 st. laurent blvd., ottawa, ont.
check you and your child’s equipment at the start  of each ski day.
most helmets  come with fitting instructions.
helmets for sale in canada should have certification from ce, snell or astm .
make sure you and your child’s helmet fits properly.
dress for the weather.
there may be variations in treatment that your physician may recommend based on individual facts and circumstances.
these are designed as single-impact helmets.
but there are no helmets available with thecsa seal because no helmet currently meets thecsa standard.
- check regularly for frostbite.
advanced search home >
keeping kids safe > skiing and snowboarding: safety tips for families skiing and snowboarding: safety tips for families skiing and snowboarding are popular winter sports.
more information from the cps: - frostbite - sport-related concussion: information for parents, coaches and trainers - winter safety - skiing and snowboarding injury prevention (position statement) additional resources: - lidsonkids.org - canadian ski patrol - canadian avalanche centre, parks canada - frequently asked questions, ski and snowboard helmets, safe kids canada reviewed by: cps injury prevention committee last updated: january 2012 this information should not be used as a substitute for the medical care and advice of your physician.
home  >keeping kids safe > skiing and snowboarding: safety tips for families skiing and snowboarding: safety tips for  families skiing and snowboarding are popular winter sports.
if your child or teen is new to skiing,  sign him up for lessons with a certified instructor.
safety starts with the right equipment - wear the proper equipment including a helmet and goggles, or wrist guards for snowboarding.
take care while on the slopes - never ski or snowboard alone.
release bindings on skis and snowboards should be adjusted so that they are right for your child or teen’s weight and skiing ability.
- among young skiers, injuries happen most often to beginners, often on their first day.
in 2008, the canadian standards  association (csa) released a new standard for a multi-impact ski and snowboard  helmet.
prepare before going out - check the weather forecast.
don’t borrow equipment.
prepare before going out check the weather forecast.
- helmets for sale in canada should have certification from ce, snell or astm .
you should also teach your child how to check her own equipment.
but each year, children  and adults are injured while involved in these sports, and sometimes the  injuries are very serious.
many injuries happen because of poorly adjusted bindings.
you should also teach your child how to check her own  equipment.
helmets can reduce the risk of a head injury.
release  bindings on skis and snowboards should be adjusted so that they are right for  your child or teen’s weight and skiing ability.
- rest when you become tired.
rest when you become tired.
- exercise and stretch to warm up muscles before hitting the slopes.
- know the condition of the trails.
more information from the cps: frostbite sport-related concussion: information for parents, coaches and trainers winter safety skiing and snowboarding injury prevention (position statement) additional resources:
children, teens and adults shouldalways wear a helmet that is  specifically designed for skiing and snowboarding.
but there are no helmets available with thecsa seal because no helmet  currently meets thecsa standard.
wear layers of clothes and pack extra hats and mitts.
- the number of brain and spinal cord injuries resulting from skiing and snowboarding is increasing worldwide.
don’t ski or  snowboard on trails that are closed or if you don’t know the conditions.
when you wear a helmet,  you set a good example for your children and send the message that is important.
in 2008, the canadian standards association (csa) released a new standard for a multi-impact ski and snowboard helmet.
don’t ski or snowboard on hills  that are above your skill level.
know the condition of the trails.
- make sure you and your child’s helmet fits properly.
take care while on the slopes never ski or snowboard alone.
ask older children to check  in regularly with an adult.
children, teens and adults shouldalways wear a helmet that is specifically designed for skiing and snowboarding.
if you don’t have  equipment of your own, rent it from a reputable ski shop or resort, and make  sure that the boots fit and the binding are adjusted correctly.
be aware of physical and environmental hazards like trees  or icy patches on the trail.
when you wear a helmet, you set a good example for your children and send the message that is important.
teach your child or teen that it’s  important that he try more difficult slopes gradually and only as his skills  get better.
don’t ski or snowboard on trails that are closed or if you don’t know the conditions.
- check you and your child’s equipment at the start of each ski day.
exercise and stretch to warm up muscles before hitting  the slopes.
most helmets come with fitting instructions.
preventing serious head injuries is everyone’s job, not matter your age.
did you know - snowboarding and downhill skiing are among the top three causes of injury related to snow and ice activities.
check regularly for frostbite.
don’t ski or snowboard on hills that are above your skill level.