most resorts also have ski schools for all levels.
also information on  resorts easily accessible from athens and bus services to these ski centres.
the two parnassos ski resorts are popular with athenians during the winter and is the largest ski centre in greece.
there are two ski resorts near athens in the peleponnese: kalavrita andmainalo.
ski slopes - or pistes - are graded by difficulty: note: yellow alpine routes are in a marked area, but are not groomed, are off-piste and unpatrolled.
passes are available for the day, for several days or on a seasonal basis.
most resorts offer accommodation: hotels, apartments or chalets, and have shops selling or renting ski equipment.
the bus leaves athens early in the morning, with the earliest pick up at 04:45, and returns late in the afternoon, leaving at 15:30 from the ski resorts.
(if you want to contact angloinfo for any other reason, please follow the instructions on this website'scontact page.)your name: * sign in become a member now!stay informed!
many resorts offer a combination of pistes for downhill and cross-country skiing.
lift-ticket prices usually go up on weekends, when resorts are more crowded.
snow scooters are available for rental and downhill night skiing can be organised on request.
moving to greece living in greece working in greece social security public holidays school terms schooling translate onlinemoving to athens buying a house or property in greece opening a bank account moving animals to greece renting in greece residency in greece starting a business in greece expatriate taxation in greece telephone & internet connectionslife in athens what's on markets museums ferry transport day trips & tours kids' days out holiday accommodation local tourism the great outdoors athens travel guides more information pages...
a sport for the more advanced skier or snowboarder, a  helicopter drops the skier or snowboarder at the top of an otherwise  inaccessible slope.
on the slopes ski slopes - or pistes - are graded by difficulty: green:
angloinfo makes every effort to ensure its information pages are as comprehensive, accurate and up-to-date as possible, but we're also grateful for any help!
karpenissi is located 280 km from athens at tymfristos mountain.
snowboarding is generally allowed at ski areas, though boarders will have to build their own jibs.
heli-skiing is available in northern greece at the pisoderi ski resort  (555 km from athens).
many resorts offer a combination of pistes for downhill and cross-country  skiing.
ktel busses provide a national bus service to karpenissi from athens.
skiing and ski resorts in greece share on facebook tweet this!
heli-skiing is available in northern greece at the pisoderi ski resort (555 km from athens).
medical insurance is included in the price of a ski pass.
with our weekly newsletter.
the greek ski season runs from december to may, depending on snow conditions.
home blogs classifieds directory forum information movies what's onmore advertising bookshop exchange rates games get listed!
sport & leisuretoday sunrise: 7:17 forecasts...take a break administration airports bus, tram & metro disabled driving emergencies pets essentials phone books postal codes trains & railways cia factsheets eu factsheets:
information on the winter sports; from downhill, alpine  skiing to cross-country, snowboarding and heli skiing.
snowboarding is not as popular in greece as it is in ski areas in western europe or the united states.
there are two locations for skiing in parnassos: fterolakka and kelaria.
for the pisoderi ski resort website: click here (in greek)
the greek ski season runs from december to may, depending on snow  conditions.
proof of identity with a photograph may be needed when buying a lift pass.
these resorts are respectively 200 km and 160 km away from athens.
if you believe any of the information on this page is incorrect or out-of-date, please let us know.
greece is the most mountainous country in europe with over 75 percent of  its land covered by mountains there are more than 1,000 mountain peaks of over 2,000m in greece
winter sports in greece are managed by the hellenic ski federation, which oversees the resorts across the country and works to ensure that skiers in greece comply with the rules and regulations for mountain conduct of the international ski federation.
parnassos mountain is located 180 km north of athens.
a lift-pass is needed to ski or snowboard in a resort.
during the ski season, the klaoudatos ski bus has daily departures from athens to three ski resorts: parnassos, kalavrita and mainalo.
link to us maps mobile web news newsletter postcards search tell a friend weather (angloinfo greece)athens local reference information
top of page ^page generated at 09:08; wednesday 28 march 2012 share as: http://angloinfo.com/9079i0
there are more than 20 ski resorts in north and central greece as well as  in the peloponnese skiing in greece winter sports in greece are managed by the hellenic ski federation,  which oversees the resorts across the country and works to ensure that skiers  in greece comply with the rules and regulations for mountain conduct of the international ski federation.
a sport for the more advanced skier or snowboarder, a helicopter drops the skier or snowboarder at the top of an otherwise inaccessible slope.