head injuries (c) sookie kids clobber their noggins more  than any other group, and probably would benefit from wearing helmets.
of course, some of those  injuries are pretty major -- and some are even life-threatening.
powder is soft, but trees aren't too forgiving.
broken wrists (c) adam pretty/getty images of course, if you strap both legs to the same board and fall over, the natural tendency is to put a hand down.
a part of the new york times company.
- sports injuries - outdoor first aid - cold exposure 1.
shoulder dislocations (c) neil rickards supposedly, each time you do this it gets easier.
how to treat a broken leg 4.
a closer look at skiing safety snowboarding goes easy on the knees rod brouhard sign up for my newsletter headlines related searches knee sprains matt gibson snow  transport transport devices big sticks snowboarding explore first aid   must reads 2010 cpr guidelines first aid
overall, less than 4 injuries happen for every 1,000 days of skiing or snowboarding, which isn't bad.
facial injuries (c) peter dutton believe it or not, most facial injuries in skiing are from getting smacked by the t-bar.
shoulder dislocations 6.
i wouldn't want to try.
how to treat a head injury related articles - common skiing and snowboarding injuries - common snowboarding injuries - spring skiing and snowboarding - spring skiing and snowboarding safety tips - is skiing a safe sport?
shoulder dislocations (c) neil rickards supposedly, each  time you do this it gets easier.
you'll actually use 5 reasons to call 911 life saving first aid skills tour a first aid kit most popular
of course, some of those injuries are pretty major -- and some are even life-threatening.
ankle sprains (c) ezra shaw/getty images get bindings that let go.
we comply with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
sunburns (c) mark goble not considered specifically a  skier's injury, but there's nothing like a bunch of white snow to reflect  sunshine all over your face.
spinal injuries (c) doug pensinger/getty images spinal injuries are very rare on the slopes, but still account for 4-10% of all fatalities.
whether it's a  nosebleed or a cut, it's all fun and games until somebody loses an eye.
- about.com - health - first aid first aid search free first aid newsletter!
knees are only supposed to bend in one direction, and only go a certain  distance at that.
how to  treat a sprain 7.
hypothermia (c) betty x1138 gonna get lost out of bounds?
sign up discuss in my forum common skiing and snowboarding injuries staying safe on the slopes by rod brouhard, about.com guide updated january 30, 2008 about.com health's disease and condition content is reviewed by our medical  review board see more about: outdoor first aid cold exposure whether you like to ski or snowboard (or one of  the dozens of other types of gravity-related snow transport devices) there's  always a chance of injury.
a closer look at skiing safety - snowboarding goes easy on the knees rod brouhard first aid guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches knee sprains matt gibson snow transport transport devices big sticks snowboarding explore first aid must reads most popular - 2010 cpr guidelines - first aid you'll actually use - 5 reasons to call 911 - life
saving first aid skills - tour a first aid kit see more about: - burn treatment - spider bites - spider bite pictures - diarrhea treatment - how to do cpr
spinal injuries (c) doug pensinger/getty images spinal  injuries are very rare on the slopes, but still account for 4-10% of all  fatalities.
broken legs (c) peter dutton whether you like two sticks or  one, the things are strapped to your legs.
how to treat hypothermia 10.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
ankle sprains don't help you get the most of that season ticket.
broken wrists (c) adam pretty/getty images of course, if you  strap both legs to the same board and fall over, the natural tendency is to put  a hand down.
sign up - first aid - everyday first aid - emergencies - photos/videos discuss in my forum common skiing and snowboarding injuries staying safe on the slopes by rod brouhard, about.com guide updated january 30, 2008 about.com health's disease and condition content is reviewed by our medical review board see more about: whether you like to ski or snowboard (or one of the dozens of other types of gravity-related snow transport devices) there's always a chance of injury.
sunburns (c) mark goble not considered specifically a skier's injury, but there's nothing like a bunch of white snow to reflect sunshine all over your face.
head injuries (c) sookie kids clobber their noggins more than any other group, and probably would benefit from wearing helmets.
knees are only supposed to bend in one direction, and only go a certain distance at that.
how  to treat a broken leg 4.
overall, less than 4 injuries happen for every 1,000  days of skiing or snowboarding, which isn't bad.
powder  is soft, but trees aren't too forgiving.
hypothermia gonna get lost out of bounds?
free first aid newsletter!
how to treat a broken wrist 3.
how to treat a sunburn 9.
whether it's a nosebleed or a cut, it's all fun and games until somebody loses an eye.
how to treat a suspected cervical spine injury 8.
how to treat a sprain 7.
knee sprains (c) matt gibson twisting and turning on big sticks strapped to your feet has a way of putting a bit of strain on anyone's knees.
ankle sprains (c) ezra shaw/getty images get bindings that  let go.
by category - sports injuries - outdoor first aid - cold exposure - calling for help - first aid kits - basic first aid - first aid videos - travel safety - emergency preparedness - allergy & anaphylaxis - burns and fire safety - shortness of breath - vomiting & diarrhea - heart attacks - strokes & seizures - children - pregnancy & childbirth - food safety first aid - about.com - health - first aid - basic first aid - breaks & sprains - skiing injuries - common skiing and snowboarding injuries also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - nutrition database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
how to treat a head injury related articles common skiing and snowboarding injuries common snowboarding injuries spring skiing and snowboarding - spring skiing and snowboarding safety tips is skiing a safe sport?
facial injuries (c) peter dutton believe it or not, most  facial injuries in skiing are from getting smacked by the t-bar.
bones can only handle so much.
broken legs (c) peter dutton whether you like two sticks or one, the things are strapped to your legs.
knee sprains (c) matt gibson twisting and turning on big  sticks strapped to your feet has a way of putting a bit of strain on anyone's  knees.