there's no reason to be cold out in the snow, and with a little preparation  and the proper clothing and accessories, you won't be.
damp socks worn on the trip to the ski area will quickly become cold  and uncomfortable.
poma surface  lifts poma surface lifts consist of a continuously moving cable,  which carries a series of perches, shaped like plates, on the end of poles.
the best way to become a good skier or snowboarder is to take a lesson from a qualified instructor.
stop before you become fatigued and, most of all have fun.
instruction helps the beginner and benefits skiers and snowboarders of all abilities.
be careful not to become dehydrated.
as you reach the unload sign, pull the perch out from between your legs with  your free hand.
(the only remaining poma at okemo is the pull - primarily used to access  the dew zone and blackout terrain parks.)
if you are looking for answers to other questions you may have, check out  ourfrequently asked questions (faq) page.
as your skis touch the snow, stand up and push yourself off the chair  with your free hand.
be careful  not to become dehydrated.
(the only remaining poma at okemo is the pull - primarily used to access the dew zone and blackout terrain parks.)
(this can save line-waiting time in the  morning).
and okemo promotes  responsible skiing and snowboarding behavior as the key to long term slope  safety.
be sure to clean the snow off of the boot sole first.
the secret to a fun time in the snow is having the right clothing.
when you are on the slopes, be sure to drink plenty of water.
do not change the binding settings.
okemo's snowsports shops are located around the mountain and feature all of the apparel and accessories you need to enjoy your day on the slopes.
don't be afraid to go first.
as  your skills improve and you become more confident about the type of gear you  need you may want to consider purchasing a few items.
helmets can be rented from our okemo  rental shops or purchased at our snow sports center.
this is a partial list.
you'll  want to keep warm, dry and comfortable your first day on snow.
how to use your ski bindings always clean all snow, ice and dirt from your boots, skis and snowboards  before stepping into the binding.
release your perch, making sure that it does not hit anyone.
gloves or mittens waterproof, breathable shell and  well insulated.
3) store personal belongings.
we encourage parents and others to educate themselves  about the benefits and limitations of helmets.
if the sock is too thick or if you're wearing too  many, it could make your boots too tight, reducing circulation, which causes  cold feet.
triple and quad chairlifts chairs, three or  four-seaters, mounted on a cable, move continuously up the slopes.
always stay in control and be able to stop or avoid other people or objects.
don't forget to get yourself some hand and toe warmers available at our  snowsports shops, located in various locations around the mountain.
outside guests look over outside shoulder and grasp bail as it approaches.
generally, layering is divided  into three areas: -wicking layer (polypropylene underwear - top and  bottoms) - "wick" or move moisture away from your skin and dries  quickly -insulating layer (wool, fleece, sweater) - keeps heat in and  cold out.
if you fall over, clear the track  quickly.
socks one (1) pair of light to medium weight works  best for skiing and riding.
to open the binding, depress rear lever with ski pole or ski boot.
outside guests hold poles in inside hand.
skiers and riders have unlimited in/out access all day and can store their skis and snowboards overnight and eliminate the bother of carrying equipment back and forth each day - located by the okemo base lodge and quads a &
remember: smile, ask  questions, and laugh at your mistakes.
prior to using any lift, you must have the knowledge and ability to load, ride, and unload safely.
there's no reason to be cold out in the snow, and with a little preparation and the proper clothing and accessories, you won't be.
visit ski & snowboard shop 1)get in shape to prepare for the slopes don't try to ski yourself into shape.
to get  the right boot fit, be sure to wear the proper socks (seedressing for the  weather).
coin-operated lockers you can also store your personal belongings  in our conventional coin-operated lockers in the base area.
okemo's snowsports shops  are located around the mountain and feature all of the apparel and accessories  you need to enjoy your day on the slopes.
the best way to become a good skier or snowboarder is to take a  lesson from a qualified instructor.
learn more aboutokemo lesson options.
if you find yourself on  a slope that exceeds your ability level, always leave your skis/snowboard on  and side step down the slope.
if you feel that they are not working  properly, bring them back to the shop for assistance.
open 7:30am on  weekends and holidays and 8:30am midweek, closes at 4:30pm.
you'll enjoy skiing more if you're physically fit.
remember: smile, ask questions, and laugh at your mistakes.
okemo has 5 carpet lifts around the resort.
we offer lessons 7 days a week for children as young as 2!
basket room this handy storage option  offers an alternative to conventional coin-operated lockers.
learn to ski and  snowboard smoothly-and in control.
storing your personal belongings stor-a-ski - okemo base area overnight storage take  advantage of okemo's innovative day and overnight storage for skis and  snowboards.
brace yourself to be pulled, but don't try to sit  down!
keep lip balm in a pocket and apply often.
heel will close automatically.
basket room this handy storage option offers an alternative to conventional coin-operated lockers.
place the perch between your legs, making sure your skis/snowboard are  parallel and widely spaced.
move quickly away from moving chair and keep unloading area clear.
2) layer up - put on final layers of clothing - this way you won't be so hot when trying on boots.
located next to the  learning center desk in the okemo base lodge, the basket room also offers  overnight and multi-day storage options for personal belongings.
grasp the perch with  your free hand.
hats or headbands usually made of fleece or wool, a  good hat combined with a neck warmer or gaitor will retain 80% of your body's  heat, keeping you warm and toasty even on the coldest days.
our philosophy is to have fun  while learning or improving a snow sport.
learn to ski and snowboard smoothly-and in control.
while travelling assume a relaxed stance, keeping your skis/snowboard  parallel and allow the perch to pull you.
if you have any questions or need directions, go talk to a lift attendant or anyone in a okemo uniform.
you just stand on the carpet and enjoy the gentle ride.
visit ourrental equipment page  for more information.
get prepared for your first experience on the slopes no matter what your age, preparation is very important to make that first day a positive experience.
make sure to check with the person booking your lesson  as to where your class meets as we offer many kinds of classes and different  classes meet at different places on the mountain.
visit oursnow sports shop , located in the base lodge and the staff will be happy to assist you with any  questions you may have.
carpet lifts carpet lifts are a great way to get up the hill.
the colored symbols next to the trails indicate the difficulty of the trail.
in our rental shop, you can purchase your  lift ticket, lesson packages, ski/snowboard rentals, boot rentals and helmet  rentals, where you can enjoy one-stop shopping.
we have lots of new options for lunch and dinner so be sure to check out ouron-mountain dining guide for more information.
open 7:30am on weekends and holidays and 8:30am midweek, closes at 4:30pm.
and this season is no exception.
the  okemo repair shop at jackson gore offers overnight ski and snowboard equipment  storage for skiers and riders.
middle guests should grasp back of chair as it approaches.
to exit the binding, depress rear lever with boot, ski or pole.
a daily fee allows you to store, and have unlimited access to your belongings in a convenient and secure storage area with small and large baskets available.
okemo supports individual and parental rights to choose to wear a helmet or not.
keep off closed trails and out of closed ski areas.
you must not stop where you  obstruct a trail or are not visible from above.
skiers and riders can drop off their  equipment at the end of the day and pick it up the next morning.
9) trail marking symbols and trail map take a few minutes to check out the lifts and the trails marked on the  trail map.
okemo supports individual and  parental rights to choose to wear a helmet or not.
the goal is to place the plate between your legs and be pulled to the top of the slope.
tip: a quick way to sign up for classes for the next day is to stop by a learning center or rentals desk after 3 p.m. you may also purchase your tickets and rentals for the next day this way.
before you ride a lift, make sure the trail symbols off of that lift  fit your ability.
be sure that your pants are not tucked into the boot.
-weather protection - repels water from snow and sleet, and  to block the wind while letting perspiration evaporate (both jacket and pants).
helmets can be rented from our okemo rental shops or purchased at our snow sports center.
stop before you become fatigued and, most of  all have fun.
tip: don't get dressed to ski/ride when you need rental equipment.
like anything, you'll improve the most when you receive some guidance.
if they are ready to hit the snow, here is some great advice from okemo snow stars instructor christopher del sole on that first day of school - ski school that is!
follow your responsibility code.
before you ride a lift, make sure the trail symbols off of that lift fit your ability.
dressing for the weather the secret to a fun time in the snow is having the right clothing.
whenever starting downhill or merging into a trail, look uphill and yield to others.
the sun reflects off the snow and is stronger than you  think, even on cloudy days!
it won't be long before you are up on the mountain reveling in the wonders of winter and giggling like the kid you suddenly feel showing off inside you.
in our rental shop, you can purchase your lift ticket, lesson packages, ski/snowboard rentals, boot rentals and helmet rentals, where you can enjoy one-stop shopping.
you'll want to keep warm, dry and comfortable your first day on snow.
officially endorsed by the national ski areas association
make sure to check with the person booking your lesson as to where your class meets as we offer many kinds of classes and different classes meet at different places on the mountain.
during your lesson be active, open and positive to learn.
see you on the slopes!
the  goal is to place the plate between your legs and be pulled to the top of the  slope.
should  you lose something, note the number of the next tower for orientation.
avoid walking, skiing or snowboarding through water or mud.
this  allows the boot to support you properly and helps to keep your feet dry.
to get the right boot fit, be sure to wear the proper socks (seedressing for the weather).
like anything, you'll improve the most when you receive some  guidance.
here's a great article from okemo magazine that will help you decide.
we want to make your skiing and snowboarding as happy and enjoyable as possible.
take care not to drop gloves, poles or litter.
for more information on  helmets, visit the nsaa web sitehttp://www.lidsonkids.org/. 5)
skiers and riders can drop off their equipment at the end of the day and pick it up the next morning.
check out our"what to pack for your okemo vacation" page for a complete list.
here are some tips on riding a chairlift: take a few minutes to check out the lifts and the trails marked on the trail map.
one of okemo’s most popular features is the variety and the caliber of its on-mountain dining options.
prior to using any lift, you must have the knowledge and ability to  load, ride, and unload safely.
we offer lessons 7 days a week for  children as young as 2!
this handy service eliminates the need to carry equipment back and forth each day.
it's also a good idea to change into fresh socks before putting your  boots on.
clear the unloading area immediately.
you'll find that as your skills improve, your equipment requirements will change.
be sure to buy quality clothing and  products.
a daily fee allows  you to store, and have unlimited access to your belongings in a convenient and  secure storage area with small and large baskets available.
you'll enjoy skiing more if you're  physically fit.
always use devices to help prevent run away equipment.
it  is your responsibility to avoid them.
you will be signaled by an operator.
6) take a lesson instruction helps the beginner and benefits skiers and snowboarders of all  abilities.
you don't need to be a guest of the jackson gore inn to take advantage of this convenience option.
here are some tips on riding a poma surface lift: triple and quad chairlifts chairs, three or four-seaters, mounted on a cable, move continuously up the slopes.
it is your responsibility to avoid them.
tip: a quick way to sign up for classes for the next day is to stop by a learning  center or rentals desk after 3 p.m. you may also purchase your tickets and  rentals for the next day this way.
poma surface lifts poma surface lifts consist of a continuously moving cable, which carries a series of perches, shaped like plates, on the end of poles.
see you on the  slopes!
you must not stop where you obstruct a trail or are not visible from above.
this allows the boot to support you properly and helps to keep your feet dry.
let them know how you like to learn.
eat a hearty meal  before lessons, and for the most possible fun, bring along a friend and learn  together!
you will also find them on posted signs on the mountain.
brake  once you are well clear of your companions.
x click here for more great  videos » x detailed info on  trails, lodging and more » print and go » get your okemo park pass take this short quiz and gain access to  nor'easter, dew zone, and blackout parks » x
skiers and riders have unlimited in/out access all day and can  store their skis and snowboards overnight and eliminate the bother of carrying  equipment back and forth each day - located by the okemo base lodge and quads a  & b. jackson gore - overnight storage
b. jackson gore - overnight storage the okemo repair shop at jackson gore offers overnight ski and snowboard equipment storage for skiers and riders.
the okemo express rental shops are located on the lower level of okemo base lodge and the jackson gore base area.
here are some tips on  riding a poma surface lift: when you are getting on, hold your poles in one hand.
always stay in control and be able to stop or avoid  other people or objects.
the colored symbols next to the trails indicate the difficulty of  the trail.
wait until it is  clear to proceed.
(this can save line-waiting time in the morning).
our philosophy is to have fun while learning or improving a snow sport.
where can we eat lunch?
carpet lifts carpet lifts are a  great way to get up the hill.
prepare to  arrive early enough to get equipment and sign up for lessons (2 hours before  the lesson is an adequate amount of time to get equipment and ready for your  lesson).
when getting off keep an eye out for signs warning of approaching arrival.
officially endorsed by the national ski areas association 8) using okemo's lifts at first, they can be intimidating contraptions, but you will quickly  master them.
here are some tips on riding a  chairlift: skiers need to take the straps off their wrists.
eye protection have sunglasses and goggles with you.
water, mud and  dirt can affect your bindings making release more difficult.
dress in layers layering allows you to accommodate  your body's constantly changing temperature.
we recommend that you rent your equipment for your first few visits.
while you are skiing or snowboarding, keep your boots properly closed.
the  high-speed quads, cruise up the mountain, but slow down considerately to  load/unload skiers/snowboarders.
we want to make your  skiing and snowboarding as happy and enjoyable as possible.
4) okemo's helmet policy okemo recommends helmets as a consideration for skiing and boarding  participants and parents.
prepare to arrive early enough to get equipment and sign up for lessons (2 hours before the lesson is an adequate amount of time to get equipment and ready for your lesson).
how to use your ski bindings
for more information on helmets, visit the nsaa web sitehttp://www.lidsonkids.org/. stor-a-ski - okemo base area overnight storage take advantage of okemo's innovative day and overnight storage for skis and snowboards.
one of okemo’s most popular features is the variety and the caliber  of its on-mountain dining options.
mittens are usually better for those susceptible to cold hands.
the binding is now ready for re-entry.
as your skills improve and you become more confident about the type of gear you need you may want to consider purchasing a few items.
when getting off, you will see the sign warning of unload area, open the  safety bar.
whenever starting  downhill or merging into a trail, look uphill and yield to others.
while you are on the slopes you will be sure to see our mountain ambassadors and ski patrol ambassadors on the hill ready to assist you in any way you may need.
sit down as the  chair reaches you.
observe all posted signs and warnings.
we have  lots of new options for lunch and dinner so be sure to check out ouron-mountain  dining guide for more information.
follow these steps: 1) get equipment.
our instructors want you to get the most out of your lesson.
the high-speed quads, cruise up the mountain, but slow down considerately to load/unload skiers/snowboarders.
check out our"what to pack for  your okemo vacation" page for a complete list.
look for wind flaps to shield zippers, snug cuffs at wrists and  ankles, collars that can be snuggled up to the chin and drawstrings that can be  adjusted for comfort and keep wind out.
you just stand on the carpet and enjoy the gentle  ride.
your responsibility code follow the "your responsibility code," the seven safety rules of  the slopes: 1.
snowboarders need to  attach a leash.
check out skiing magazine'sfitness section for tips on the best snacks for a day on the slopes and best of all tips and routines for getting in shape to ski and ride.
don't  be afraid to go first.
11) visit the snow sports shop you'll find that as your skills improve, your equipment requirements will  change.
if you are looking for answers to other questions you may have, check out ourfrequently asked questions (faq) page.
visit ourrental equipment page for more information.
located next to the learning center desk in the okemo base lodge, the basket room also offers overnight and multi-day storage options for personal belongings.
check out skiing magazine'sfitness section for tips on the best  snacks for a day on the slopes and best of all tips and routines for getting in  shape to ski and ride.
2) layer up - put on final layers of clothing - this way you won't be so  hot when trying on boots.
trail marking symbols and trail map where can we eat lunch?
raise the tips of your skis so they don't catch as you approach the  platform.
once the chair has left the platform, lower the safety bar.
visit oursnow sports shop , located in the base lodge and the staff will be happy to assist you with any questions you may have.
this handy service eliminates the need to carry  equipment back and forth each day.
it's your responsibility
when buying skiwear, look for fabric that is water and  wind-resistant.
skiing and snowboarding are a lot more fun when you can see!
we've also lined up some frequently asked questions to better help you plan: don't try to ski yourself into shape.
3) rental equipment tips the okemo express rental shops are located on the lower level of okemo base  lodge and the jackson gore base area.
people ahead of you have the right of way.
if you have any questions, please ask for assistance.
the boot should fit like a snug hiking boot with no pressure points.
if you're tired, stop skiing.
tip: don't get dressed to ski/ride when  you need rental equipment.
at first, they can be intimidating contraptions, but you will quickly master them.
for children it becomes even more important.
middle guests hold poles in  either hand.
and okemo promotes responsible skiing and snowboarding behavior as the key to long term slope safety.
while you are on the slopes you  will be sure to see our mountain ambassadors and ski patrol ambassadors on the  hill ready to assist you in any way you may need.
we encourage parents and others to educate themselves about the benefits and limitations of helmets.
observe all  posted signs and warnings.
there are several synthetic materials on the market and available at outdoor  sports stores.
choose a lightweight garment that is made of waterproof, breathable material.
if you find yourself on a slope that exceeds your ability level, always leave your skis/snowboard on and side step down the slope.
you don't need  to be a guest of the jackson gore inn to take advantage of this convenience  option.
it won't be long before you are up on  the mountain reveling in the wonders of winter and giggling like the kid you  suddenly feel showing off inside you.
coin-operated lockers you can also store your personal belongings in our conventional coin-operated lockers in the base area.
your first big decision is "are they ready?".
if you have any questions or need directions, go talk to a  lift attendant or anyone in a okemo uniform.
okemo recommends helmets as a consideration for skiing and boarding participants and parents.
eat a hearty meal before lessons, and for the most possible fun, bring along a friend and learn together!
sunscreen and lip balm protect yourself from the  strong alpine sun.
follow the "your responsibility code," the seven safety rules of the slopes: 1.
do not bounce  or swing during the ride.