£504 hotel residence fr.
feb 12 last snowed: 2nd feb 12 fresh snow depth: 10cm depth at resort: 70cm mountain depth: 190cm piste state: excellent (great conditions - wax up your skis!)
£629 - hotel du four fr.
abta bonded travel agent no l9364.
mar --> sun 24th mar --> sun 31st
for a change, the small local area at gressoney st. jean, separate from the rest of the circuit, can provide a day's entertainment.
in gressoney la trinite there are about half that number.
snowboarding lessons are available from age ten.
ski holidays in gressoney suitable for families+ there is not a  great deal especially designed for children in the gressoney valley, although  the area's strong community values, friendly people and establishments and  beautiful setting all make it a pleasant place for a family ski trip.
now: 0800 044 3523 - contact us - site map - faqs - how do i book - customer service our phone lines on 0800 044 3523 are open 8.30am - 10.00pm monday - saturday; 9.00am - 10.00pm on sunday (uk time).
dec any january 13 --> sat 5th jan -->
gressoney-st-jean has the widest selection of shops and a weekly market.
sat 9th feb --> sun 10th feb --> sat 16th
the skiing is varied, above and below the treeline and always with wonderful scenery all around.
at the base of the lifts in stafal visit the kramenthal for good local specialities.
accommodation in gressoney - hotels - chalet du lys fr.
the only problem there is that the runs back down to resort are quite steep for beginners (graded red)
snowboarding lessons are  available from age ten.
in la trinite the  hirsch stube is one of the best bars.
weather report: overcast skies
in terms of on-piste terrain, intermediates will enjoy monte rosa the most, with more than 40 red (intermediate) graded runs to choose from covering about three quarters of the groomed trails.
it is therefore well worth signing up for a guided tour or for ski touring expeditions.
at the base of the lifts in stafal visit  the kramenthal for good local specialities.
gressoney la trintie at 1637m is the highest of the main villages and  connected to alagna.
other activities and facilities at gressoney+ most of the rather  limited range of activities beyond downhill skiing and boarding in the valley  are outdoor-based and include paragliding, sliding around on all terrain  vehicles (atv) or quad biking on an ice circuit.
- ski holidays in gressoney suitable for families+ there is not a great deal especially designed for children in the gressoney valley, although the area's strong community values, friendly people and establishments and beautiful setting all make it a pleasant place for a family ski trip.
sales@fasttrackski.co.uk mon to sat: 8.30am - 10.00pm sun: 9.00am - 10.00pm - - ski destinations - andorra - austria - bulgaria - canada - finland - france - italy - japan - norway - romania - serbia - slovenia - spain - sweden - switzerland - usa - - ski holiday guides - cheap ski holidays - group ski holidays - single ski holidays - santa claus holidays - skiing before christmas - christmas ski holidays - new year ski holidays - easter ski holidays - popular ski resorts - ski operators - ski holiday accommodation - ski chalet holidays - snow reports - - ski deals - ski holiday search - newsletter subscription - fast track ski twitter - - about fast track ski - terms & conditions - privacy policy - holiday extras can't find what you're looking for?
although it is not on the scale of the famous french three valleys, it is a big area with nearly 200km (125 miles) of piste spread across varied terrain.
feb --> sun 3rd feb -->
mar --> sun 18th mar --> sat 24th
feb --> sun 17th feb -->
intermediate skiing+ in terms of on-piste terrain, intermediates  will enjoy monte rosa the most, with more than 40 red (intermediate) graded  runs to choose from covering about three quarters of the groomed trails.
the largest village in the area is gressoney st jean which is lower down at 1387m. it is not directly connected to the main ski areas, although it does have a small ski area of its own.
it is also home to the valley's public swimming pool and a natural ice rink.
our ski experts will be happy to help.
the villages are all quite attractive in themselves, most with a traditional italian stone and wood chalet style design of building, and endeavour to keep alive the ancient regional walser cultural traditions, which originated in the area in the thirteenth century.
mar --> sun 17th mar --> sat 23rd
there is no nursery provision for younger children  and, depending on the number and age mix of participants, even the youngest  children may be out in mixed-groups with adults.
lifts up to passo salati open up huge vertical descents either back to gressoney or down to the classic resort of alagna on one side and to colle bettaforca on the other, accessing the ayas valley above champoluc and antagnod.
it extends up  to western europe's second highest peak, monte rosa, opening up one of the  world's largest lift-served skiable verticals above neighbouring alagna.
so it is likely you will need to get the lift back down for most of your first week.
please read our terms & conditions and privacy policy of sale carefully before booking.
gressoney-st-jean has the  widest selection of shops and a weekly market.
heli-boarding is an option the well-heeled and technically able will  wish to take advantage of from the resort.
- skiing for beginners+ there are nursery slopes dotted around the valley, although the most convenient are at resort level in gressoney st. jean.
temperature: -12°c open lifts: 11 of 11 view gressoney snow history - gressoney resort statistics+
the area pass covers the entire monte rosa area but also other resorts in the aosta valley including pila and la thuile, from where you can ski over the border to la rosiere in france.
matterhorn ski paradise -> monte rosa -> milky way -> aosta valley -> dolomites --> arabba --> bardonecchia --> canazei --> cervinia --> champoluc --> claviere --> cortina -->
sat 19th jan --> sun 20th jan -->
in either case the food choices are predominantly local dishes from the region and standard italian pasta and pizza.
however the area is most famous for its  freeriding, not its groomed steeps.
lifts  up to passo salati open up huge vertical descents either back to gressoney or  down to the classic resort of alagna on one side and to colle bettaforca on the  other, accessing the ayas valley above champoluc and antagnod.
£549 - lo scoiattolo fr.
however stadfal at the top of the valley is connected by cable car to champoluc in the third valley in the other direction, as well as by gondola to alagna also.
excursions to the vallee blanche, the world's longest off piste descent  above chamonix and courmayeur are offered.
slope direction ne nw se sw very easy runs 0 easy runs 2 medium runs 13 difficult runs 3 toughest run name moos skiable vertical 1334m number of lifts 7 top lift height 2970m night skiing n snowboarding parks 0 half pipes 0 swimming pools 1 night clubs 0 mountain restaurants 13 - gressoney piste map+ - gressoney transfer times+ turin: 1 hour and 30 minutes milan / milano: 2 hours
the largest village in the area is  gressoney st jean which is lower down at 1387m. it is not directly connected to  the main ski areas, although it does have a small ski area of its own.
the monte rosa region is firmly on the "must ski" list for advanced skiers because of its big verticals and spectacular off piste descents.
and there are 30km of cross-country skiing, and snow shoeing.
gressoney la trintie at 1637m is the highest of the main villages and connected to alagna.
the local monte rosa ski school accepts children for regular lessons for two-and-a-half hours on five days in the week, from age four.
all holidays listed on this web site are subject to availability at the time of booking.
the gressoney valley contains several different village bases and it is worthwhile checking which one accommodation offered is in and how that location relates to the ski lift network.
- apres ski and dining out+ après ski is informal throughout the gressoney valley and centred on local hotel bars, restaurants and cafés.
the only point that needs to be clear is that the  challenges do mostly lie off the beaten piste - there are eight black runs  dotted around, but they only offer about nine kilometres (six miles) of groomed  black descents between them, including the leonardo david slope, valid for the  alpine ski world cup.
those staying in gressoney la trinite and stafal are more likely to take the chairlift or gondolas up to altitude nursery slopes at gabiet or punta jolanda.
gressoney itself has descents nearing the world's biggest, with vertical  descents approaching 2000 metres possible.
it extends up to western europe's second highest peak, monte rosa, opening up one of the world's largest lift-served skiable verticals above neighbouring alagna.
should the holiday you have requested not be available our travel consultant will offer you an alternative.
the area pass covers the entire  monte rosa area but also other resorts in the aosta valley including pila and  la thuile, from where you can ski over the border to la rosiere in france.
it is therefore well worth signing up for a  guided tour or for ski touring expeditions.
heliskiing is also popular, with  descents including a route from zermatt in switzerland down to champoluc.
- other activities and facilities at gressoney+ most of the rather limited range of activities beyond downhill skiing and boarding in the valley are outdoor-based and include paragliding, sliding around on all terrain vehicles (atv) or quad biking on an ice circuit.
mar any december 12 --> sun 16th dec -->
jan any february 13 --> sat 2nd
however the area is most famous for its freeriding, not its groomed steeps.
the gressoney name covers the whole valley, some 12km (seven-and-a-half miles)  long, which is the central one of three lift-linked valleys, thus the area is  sometimes called "italy's three valleys".
accommodation in gressoney chalet du lys fr.
and there are 30km of  cross-country skiing, and snow shoeing.
excursions to the vallee blanche, the world's longest off piste descent above chamonix and courmayeur are offered.
gressoney itself has descents nearing the world's biggest, with vertical descents approaching 2000 metres possible.
so it is likely you will need to get the  lift back down for most of your first week.
- intermediate skiing+
saving you money on your ski holiday ski holidays in gressoney, italy suitable for: ski holidays in gressoney - beginners | - intermediates | - advanced | - boarders | - family friendly | - glacier | - height | 1624m quick links - ski holidays to gressoney - ski holidays to italy - home / - ski destinations / - italy / - gressoney gressoney is a well located ski area set in the spectacular alpine scenery of the monte rosa region of north west italy.
the only problem there is that the runs back down to resort are  quite steep for beginners (graded red)
the school has some english speaking staff.
£583 gressoney skiing price list - march 2012 £504 - december 2012 £585 - january 2013 £599 - february 2013 £675 - march 2013 £589 - christmas 2012 £833 - new year 2012 - 2013 £995 - half term 2013 £995 - easter 2013 £619 other ski resorts in italy arabba £359 bardonecchia £209 canazei £485 cervinia £405 champoluc £559 claviere £485 cortina £619 corvara £1094 courmayeur £320 folgarida £629 la thuile £285 les orres £224 livigno £289 madonna di campiglio £439 ortisei £634 passo tonale £239 pila £519 sansicario £424 sauze d`oulx £245 selva £440 sestriere £259 st cristina £545 val di fassa £439 cheap ski holidays to gressoney - chalet du lys, gressoney 25/03/12 - gatwick - 7nts £629 - lo scoiattolo, gressoney 18/03/12 - gatwick - 7nts £583 - lo scoiattolo, gressoney 18/03/12 - gatwick - 7nts £583 - hotel residence, gressoney 25/03/12 - gatwick - 7nts £549 - hotel residence, gressoney 25/03/12 - gatwick - 7nts £549 - home - ski deals - groups - ski resorts - ski holiday guides - snowboarding - newsletter - ski news - blog - snow reports - powderhound new - andorra - austria - bulgaria - canada - finland - france - italy - japan - norway - romania - serbia - slovenia - spain - sweden - switzerland - usa call free: 0800 044 3523 or email:
gressoney st. jean has the widest selection of evening eateries  with about 30 to choose from.
£629 hotel du four fr.
corvara --> courmayeur --> folgarida --> gressoney --> la thuile --> les orres --> livigno --> madonna di campiglio --> ortisei --> passo tonale --> pila --> sansicario --> sauze d`oulx --> selva --> sestriere --> st cristina --> val di fassa - airport any airport
- snowboarding at gressoney+ there are no terrain parks in the area and the main attraction, as for better skiers, is the extensive freeriding terrain.
the gressoney valley  contains several different village bases and it is worthwhile checking which  one accommodation offered is in and how that location relates to the ski lift  network.
it is also home to the valley's  public swimming pool and a natural ice rink.
in la trinite the hirsch stube is one of the best bars.
the ancient language and customs are maintained by local associations and reflected in museums and cultural events.
apres ski and dining out+ après ski is informal throughout  the gressoney valley and centred on local hotel bars, restaurants and  cafés.
turin: 1 hour and 30 minutes milan /  milano: 2 hours gressoney is a well located ski area set  in the spectacular alpine scenery of the monte rosa region of north west italy.
the gressoney name covers the whole valley, some 12km (seven-and-a-half miles) long, which is the central one of three lift-linked valleys, thus the area is sometimes called "italy's three valleys".
advanced+ the monte rosa region is firmly on the "must  ski" list for advanced skiers because of its big verticals and spectacular  off piste descents.
the school has  some english speaking staff.
- snow conditions in gressoney italy + snow report issued: 13th
mar --> sun 3rd mar --> sat 9th mar --> sun 10th mar --> sat 16th
any march 13 --> sat 2nd
any midlands any south coast any south west
any north east any london any scottish any north west birmingham bournemouth bristol doncaster gatwick glasgow manchester newcastle stansted - departure date any date any march 12 --> sun 11th mar --> sat 17th
ski school operates mornings from monday to friday.
mar - board basis any board basis half board - duration any duration 7 nights 14 nights - number of people any group size 1 person 2 people 3 people 4 people 5 people 6 people 7 people 8 people 9 people 10 people 11 people
gressoney st. jean has the widest selection of evening eateries with about 30 to choose from.
the  skiing is varied, above and below the treeline and always with wonderful  scenery all around.
those staying in gressoney la trinite and stafal are more likely to take the  chairlift or gondolas up to altitude nursery slopes at gabiet or punta jolanda.
for a change, the small local area at gressoney st. jean,  separate from the rest of the circuit, can provide a day's entertainment.
skiing for beginners+ there are nursery slopes dotted around the  valley, although the most convenient are at resort level in gressoney st. jean.
the villages are all quite attractive in themselves, most with a traditional  italian stone and wood chalet style design of building, and endeavour to keep  alive the ancient regional walser cultural traditions, which originated in the  area in the thirteenth century.
the only point that needs to be clear is that the challenges do mostly lie off the beaten piste - there are eight black runs dotted around, but they only offer about nine kilometres (six miles) of groomed black descents between them, including the leonardo david slope, valid for the alpine ski world cup.
there is no nursery provision for younger children and, depending on the number and age mix of participants, even the youngest children may be out in mixed-groups with adults.
indeed there are not many blue runs locally to progress on to.
heliskiing is also popular, with descents including a route from zermatt in switzerland down to champoluc.
indeed there are not many blue runs  locally to progress on to.
in gressoney la trinite there are about half that  number.
however stadfal at the top of the valley is  connected by cable car to champoluc in the third valley in the other direction,  as well as by gondola to alagna also.
snowboarding at gressoney+ there are no terrain parks in the area  and the main attraction, as for better skiers, is the extensive freeriding  terrain.
reset - country any country italy - resort any resort italy ->
the ancient language and customs are maintained  by local associations and reflected in museums and cultural events.
the local monte rosa ski school accepts children for regular lessons for  two-and-a-half hours on five days in the week, from age four.
in either case the food choices are predominantly local  dishes from the region and standard italian pasta and pizza.
£504 - hotel residence fr.
although it is  not on the scale of the famous french three valleys, it is a big area with  nearly 200km (125 miles) of piste spread across varied terrain.
heli-boarding is an option the well-heeled and technically able will wish to take advantage of from the resort.