click here to view the world wide submission call for full details.
americans  swept the men's and women's podiums as michael rossi, mac bohonnon and jack  boyczuk took the men's division; while madison olsen, madison gorelik and sara  swenson went one, two, three on the women's side.
niklas got the crowd to go wild with his second run, a frontside 1080 double cork mute grab.
for the skiers it  was all about the double corks with mcrae williams landing the smoothest run,  dirtiest double and snagging the $3500 top prize.
the freeskiers took to the 614-foot long pipe last, proving to the supportive crowd that the show was not over.
all sitzmark  shows are 21 and over.
" competitors will ride the alyeska aerial tram starting at 9:00 a.m. and  enter the specially designated event gate.
"it's a style jump," he said, "it's smooth and the judges like  it and gave me high scores.
video tour of stratton parks - with enough parks and features to keep a jibber busy for days, stratton's snow reporter, marsha, has put together a video tour of the current parks.
kostelic then left his opponents no chance  in "his" discipline.
deadline  for submissions is thursday, march 1st, 2012 (prior to 5pm).
mount snow staffers acted as  ushers and groomsmen, all decked out in black ski jackets and red neckties.
this was definitely one of the hardest competitions for me, with everyone stomping it.'
labbe-giguere, who was injured earlier in the season, said, "i'm not really happy with my performance, i haven't had a lot of training but i hoped to do better today.
callister, after taking the slopestyle win less than 24 hours earlier, smashed the competition with a score that lead the next contestant by four points.
registration for the race is open and available at the tram ticket office at alyeska resort between 9:30 a.m. and open until 5:30 p.m. sunday to wednesday, and until 8:30 p.m. on thursday to saturday during night-skiing.
devoted to providing a behind-the-curtain look into the athletes, sports and events that shape the action sports industry, alli sports' youtube channel will give viewers more amazing content to compliment the offerings on allisports.com and nbc broadcasts.
americans took gold and silver.
steamboat springs champagne powder® makes the perfect valentine's day present mother nature drops two feet of snow in a week, 65 inches since the new year steamboat springs, co-february 14, 2012-mother nature proved that she  "loves" steamboat, by giving the best valentine's day present: a  powder day.
we hope this means big snow for the rest of the season." since monday, february 13, heavenly has received 18" of new snow, and the entire upper mountain will now be open.
callister, after taking the slopestyle win less than  24 hours earlier, smashed the competition with a score that lead the next  contestant by four points.
as chuck wagner says, "growing grapes and winemaking takes a tenacious will and endless spirit to be successful.
the ttr standard is what competitive snowboarders use to  rank themselves against each other, and earn entry into events like the grand  prix and the olympics.
the snowmaking team has been out on the mountain this week to add a top layer of powder to the trails.
jamieson irvine of barrie, ont. was 11th at 69.00 and drummondville, que.'s jf houle was 12th after falling on both his runs, at 13.00.
gus kenworthy, telluride, colo., 75.00. 11.
mt snow cloud nine nuptials at mount snow attracts more than 20 couples; some who will tie the knot for the first time, others will renew their vows at 3,600 feet west dover, vt (february 13, 2012) -
caymus vineyards was established when a  mother and father and their son embarked on a family winery in 1972.
think twitter meets skype meets facebook, all in real life, all in real time.
the river, and friends and supporters of the faulkner breast centre and raise funds for the fight against breast cancer by skiing in a dual course in the briefcase race with mike lynch on march 3.
"valentine's day is a great reminder that skiing and riding is that  much more fun with someone you love," said john kohnke, patrol director.
*rate for kids ski free package includes one adult two-day lift ticket.
skiers and riders of all ages are invited to compete for swag and cash.
samuel viseur, centennial, colo. 3.
brita sigourney, 150. 5.
late submissions  will not be considered.
meanwhile,  in aerial action at utah olympic park, canadian national 'c' team member  marc-antoine labbe-giguere of quebec city was the top canadian in 7th with a  combined score of 142.36 .
reilly ryan scored 26.12 and dylan walczyk was 25.19.
it was lemieux's best noram finish this year.
seven inches of new snow greeted powderhounds first thing this morning, with steady snow falling throughout the day, resulting in more than two feet covering mt. werner in the past 6 days.
men's snowboard superpipe - tour rankings 1.louie vito, 330. 2.
women's freeski superpipe - tour rankings 1.devin logan, 190. 2.
labbé-giguère was happy with his performance over the three  events, where he finished seventh, tenth and seventh.
even technical specialist benni raich (aut) was  trailing 0.66 seconds behind today's winner.
"i had some troubles skiing out of my top air [a 360] today, but i managed to get back into my line so i'm happy with my performance.
"some of the folks joining us for the cloud nine nuptials met here and even got married here, so mount snow holds a special place in many hearts." mount snow also offered two lift tickets for $49 available for advance purchase online prior to monday, february 13.
" canadian team coach adrian taggart was disappointed with the showing of the national team athletes.
advanced reservations must be made with group  sales in order to attend scout weekend.
charlie, lorna and their son, chuck, began work in 1971 by planning the construction of a barn-like structure for the winery while they continued farming the already planted vineyards.
americans swept the men's and women's podiums as michael rossi, mac bohonnon and jack boyczuk took the men's division; while madison olsen, madison gorelik and sara swenson went one, two, three on the women's side.
it definitely feels good to have people at the start gate cheering for you and people to consult on your run.
the storm ended tuesday afternoon and nearly every resort posted double-digit snow totals for the week.
all interested action sport/action lifestyle photographers are asked to  submit a quicktime movie (.mov) containing a 3 minute slideshow of your images  set to music.
loon mountain park and stepchild snowboards have collaborated to host the child support blue ribbon rail jam at loon mountain park on february 18.
matt margetts, canada, 40.00.
more surprising action was put down by swedish niklas mattsson, who rounded up the podium after holding his own against 3 clear favorite opponents in the final, including former air&style winner sebastien toutant (can).
the telus world ski and snowboard  festival has released the call for entries for the world's preeminent action  sports photography competition, the olympus pro photographer showdown.
race course is set on the "downdraft" trail for all ages and abilities.
this year, the cholula triple air show was upgraded to a 3 star ttr (ticket to ride) event which means competitors earned points toward their overall worldwide ranking.
nevin brown was first at 207.47; jonathon lillis was second at 193.63 and the bronze medal went to alex bowen at 186.36.
another storm system moves into the area on sunday with additional snowfall predicted.
going into the competition, kevin rolland was leading the standings, with torin yater-wallace just two points behind him.
the challenge is fairly  simple.
ulsifer, who is a four-year member of the alberta freestyle team, said "i was really happy to make finals for the first time in a noram.
the first gatorade free flow tour athlete to ever champion in two disciplines, callister could hardly express his excitement, saying "it's pretty awesome, i'm really excited about it.
noah wallace, spokane, wash. women's snowboard slopestyle 1.
josey chase, sun valley, ore. 3.
looking forward to making up for it later in the month," said andré.
steamboat is currently in a storm cycle that, as of the 5 am report, yielded 7 inches at mid-mountain and 9 inches at the summit, 11 inches at mid and 13 inches at the summit in the past 48 hours, and 24.5 inches at mid and 29.5 inches at the summit in the past six days.
the village at squaw valley is located in the heart of squaw valley, just steps away from the lifts, and is a quick shuttle ride to alpine meadows.
son chuck wagner is the winemaker and viticulturist for caymus.
gretchen bleiler, aspen, colo., 94.25. 3.
following on the heels of last season's successful saturday night entertainment series and the first several successful shows this season that featured bands such as the paranoid social club and the alchemystics, the series continued with love in stockholm on saturday, february 4, sponsored by barefoot wine & bubbly.
red oak is very please to announce that we have reached another milestone  in the skiing and snowboarding industry and will have at this years summit  expression session annual carving event a ride and race ready alpine snowboard  built by virus featuring our industry leading glide technology using  "superglide" construction technology and tetra race base, (trb), a  waxless base material.
rates start at $158 per person, per night.
registration for the race is open and  available at the tram ticket office at alyeska resort between 9:30 a.m. and  open until 5:30 p.m. sunday to wednesday, and until 8:30 p.m. on thursday to  saturday during night-skiing.
the tickets are to be used together on the same day, wednesday, thursday or friday of this week.
the 2012 dew tour wrapped up in snowbasin today and canadian kaya turski came away with a gold medal, the dew cup and the award for athlete of the year, which she shared with american devin logan.
the shawnee mountain junior development team will perform a skiing and  snowboarding skills demonstration on the thundercloud trail and greenhouse
angel fire resort has been hosting the event for the past 30 years - racers are expected from all corners of the country.
turski's medal wraps up a five-medal weekend for the canadian freestyle team, including one in aerials, one in halfpipe, three in moguls and one in ski slopestyle.
"i know this pain, i've often had it and most of the time it was the meniscus.
ben watts, bend, ore., 67.00. 12.
said jesse boyd, vp of operations for peak resorts.
rochon explained that most of the aerialists had  planned to downgrade their jumps, but not him.
saturday: october sons will be playing in the sled pub from 4pm to 9pm. sunday: october sons hosting several lifeline benefit rock bands in "we will, we will rock cancer" from 12pm to 5pm.
finalists will be notified by thursday, march 8th, 2012.
hunter visser, canada 3.
"with two feet of snow in the past week, the conditions at steamboat are  the best of the season, and the forecast shows even more snow is on the  way."
the beautiful black virus race werks 180 pgs will be  available for viewing and scheduled demo.
paul brichta, burnsville, minn., 70.00. 11.
"it's a style jump," he said, "it's smooth and the judges like it and gave me high scores.
this friendly "competition" is scheduled for friday, february 24,  2012.
his straight air and front ten were a clean start to his cab seven, front nine, back nine and five.
the additional terrain access is accomplished by the extension of the current summit lift profile to the top of the mountain, approaching 1000 feet of vertical drop.
steamboat is currently in a storm cycle that, as of the 5 am report,  yielded 7 inches at mid-mountain and 9 inches at the summit, 11 inches at mid  and 13 inches at the summit in the past 48 hours, and 24.5 inches at mid and  29.5 inches at the summit in the past six days.
reservations are available by calling 1-800-229-loon.
just being able to land runs and enjoy doing what i do has been  awesome.
" mount snow also offered  two lift tickets for $49 available for advance purchase online prior to monday,  february 13.
there is no better time to take advantage of the tahoe super 2, a limited time offer available only for two more days (through feb. 17).
katrien  aerts, 120. 8.
" turski, who didn't have a slopestyle coach before this season, credits hard work and the resources that have become available to her since the olympic announcement, from the canadian freestyle ski association and its partners as well and her main personal sponsor, red bull, with her results to date this season.
there were no canadian women represented at the event today.
headlining the new youtube content offering are three new weekly marquee shows:inside alli sports, a weekly news show hosted by pat parnell and angela sun, providing insightful perspective into the biggest stories in action sports;awsm on alli, hosted by legendary snowboarder todd richards, giving you his fun and humorous take on the industry; andthe frendly times , a behind-the-scenes look into the lifestyles of the unique snowboard athletes who comprise the frends crew.
this is one of my favorite courses and i'm pretty confident on it."
the event has been featured on espn, abc sports, mtv, winter x games and the travel channel the master men was won by jeff hambin from austin, tx at 13.56 seconds - with a speed of 73.31 mph.
dinner by pats peak's executive chef, guy pelletier tickets purchased before the weekend of the event: $20 per person or $30  per couple.
closing out the day, the callister kicked off a weekend of success with  his frontside lipslide on the first rail, boardslide to fakie on the 2nd rail,  cab boardslide 270 out off the cannonbox, cab 900, frontside 1080.
"it has since grown into a wacky, full-bore competition with speed  suits, radar guns, costumes and family racing legacies.
special thanks goes out to the event's sponsors, cholula hot sauce,  jarritos, continuous, and more.
a perfect day on the mountain with sunny skies and warm temperatures provided riders with an amazing opportunity to let it all hang out.
charlie wagner  believed in moderation - yet had consumed about 3,000 gallonss of wine in his  life.
naude and lalonde win noram medals telluride mogul noram telluride, colorado  (february 8, 2012) - sixteen-year-old canadians andi naude and alexis  lalonde enjoyed their best noram finishes here today in a single mogul event,  taking silver and bronze, in their respective categories.
the rail jam series is back this saturday, february 18, on tyrolienne.
this unparalleled celebration of still images, and of the commitment shown to build a body of work that captures time and captivates the human spirit, tasks photographers to create a body of work indicative of their personal photographic journey.
the slopestyle course in snowbasin was fairly technical, with three rail features and two jumps.
funnel cake, kettle corn, crepe and roasted nut concessions along with face painting and carnival games for the kids will all add to the winter carnival atmosphere!
the best of show winner will take home a $10,000 cheque  and $5,000 in prizes.
carving is best seen  in the olympics as parallel s / gs.
new england disabled sports hosted the 2012 new england disabled sports ski and ride challenge and adaptive sports expo, on sunday february 5.
turski also finished on top of the dew cup standings  with 200 points.
on saturday afternoons, guests can arrive early, get their rental equipment early and start skiing/riding early with step up to "pop" tickets: ticket valid: 12pm to 10pm - $73 ticket valid: 1pm to 10pm - $63 ticket valid: 2pm to 10pm - $53 ticket valid: 3pm to 10pm - $43 the pop ticket is the only lift ticket available on saturday nights.
brandon  davis, mammoth lakes, calif. 4.
the $20,000 cholula triple air show  returned to mountain high on saturday, february 4, 2012, offering the largest  prize purse in southern california.
and her family's reaction to her success here?
wolf creek, in the southwest part of the state, boasted 35 inches for the most recent seven-day period, and steamboat, in the northwest region of the state, enjoyed a robust 28.5 inches for the week.
ian hamilton, missoula, mont. 5.
the little sister trail, with terrain park features, will be lit up from 6 - 9 p.m. for fluorescent nights from thursday, february 23 through saturday, february 25.
seven inches of new snow greeted powderhounds first thing this  morning, with steady snow falling throughout the day, resulting in more than  two feet covering mt. werner in the past 6 days.
alli sports youtube channel  now offering daily original action sports content "inside alli sports", "the frendly times"  and "awsm on alli" with todd richards headline the offering february 7, 2012 -- burr ridge, ill. - alli sports, a  division of the nbc sports group, and youtube have teamed up to provide daily  original action sports content.
kid-o-rama is a weeklong celebration, feb. 18-25, for kids of all ages.
in the ski division, some heavy hitters came out to compete including patrick goodhough, max peters, noah morrison and time gage.
beginning in november of 1971, charlie and chuck along with one other  worker pruned their 55 acres of grapes.
adult men 1 - chad denney  from angel fire, nm.
offer is subject to change and availability.
competing on the largest pipe in the world was no problem for the 18-year-old - "i added a couple hits, didn't have to add in anything new but worked on performing them better."
now in its fourteenth year, the event  continues to gain strength with many raving this year's course was the best  it's ever been.
local boys yan ziqi (2nd) and xiao yuan (3rd) also deservedly moved through, shredding hard all session on each feature.
charlie wagner believed in moderation - yet had consumed about 3,000 gallonss of wine in his life.
the first gatorade free flow  tour athlete to ever champion in two disciplines, callister could hardly  express his excitement, saying "it's pretty awesome, i'm really excited  about it.
callister doubled his  win, topping the podium for the second day in a row, along with kelly berger in  snowboard and broby leeds in freeski.
each rider gets two shots to clock the fastest time down the front of the angel fire ski mountain.
shovel racing was also once a featured sport during the early years of the winter x games.
mount snow staffers acted as ushers and groomsmen, all decked out in black ski jackets and red neckties.
the festive occasion began at 10:00am with a  procession up the sunbrook quad, complete with pachabel's cannon in d providing  the background music, followed by each couple taking their place around a giant  heart painted in the snow at the top of the mountain and a spirited ceremony  conducted by a local justice of the peace.
it was a close dual, as schwartz beat the canadian across the line.
this 3 million dollar capital investment will happen on the 10 year anniversary of the reconstruction of the resort.
peak resorts announces the acquisition of the high speed detachable quad chairlift formally of ascutney mountain, vt.
slope's golden girl turski's dew tour win wraps up a five-medal weekend for canada ogden, utah (february 12, 2012) -
championship devin logan wins
dean bercovitch was 34th; heath berkovitch was 35th, connor spence was 37th; julien dufresne was 47th; and, matt joosten was 53rd.
his impressive victory ahead of beat feuz (sui) also earned kostelic the title  in the combined world cup.
on  this day, it was katie williams out of salt lake city, utah who stole the show  and the $2000 top prize with her smooth run that included a clean front 5 on  the money booter.
this friendly "competition" is scheduled for friday, february 24, 2012.
going into the  competition, kevin rolland was leading the standings, with torin yater-wallace  just two points behind him.
a perfect day on the mountain with sunny skies and warm temperatures  provided riders with an amazing opportunity to let it all hang out.
the family tradition continues with charlie making exquisite chardonnay at mer soleil in the santa lucia highlands of monterey county and joseph making fine pinot noir under the belle glos label in the coastal areas of california.
ivica kostelic (cro) is the big  winner of today's super combined in the olympic dress rehearsal in sochi (rus).
spectators will then have the opportunity to vote for their favorite  carver and sculpture with a "peoples choice" award presented at 2pm.
pecha  kucha, loosely meaning 'chit chat' in japanese, tasks presenters with the  challenge of communicating their thoughts, ideas and concepts in short bursts  of 20 x 20 second power point slides.
vertical challenge  competition at alyeska resort february 1, 2012 ( girdwood , alaska ) -
snow is expected to fall into the evening, before skies clear giving way to a sunnywednesday.
book the champagne powder  package by february 29th through steamboat central reservations® to save an  additional 20% on lifts and lodging and get $100 in boat bucks.
but we won't be able to say anything of course until i've had it checked out in hospital," said kostelic, forced to swallow a bitter pill despite the day being so successful.
armeen pirooz, harrisonburg,  va. freeski superpipe 1.
there were no canadian women in today's event.
this continues to be the most successful fundraising  event for the childhood cancer lifeline of nh.
david wise wins freeski superpipe, kevin rolland takes second  consecutive dew cup at toyota
it is not uncommon to find a carver making s / gs turns  dragging a hip during a graceful turn, laying down trenched in the snow, and a  grin that reach ear to ear!
all interested action sport/action lifestyle photographers are asked to submit a quicktime movie (.mov) containing a 3 minute slideshow of your images set to music.
as a reward, the winning team will walk with a staggering $15,000 and recognition from their industry peers.
the  national slopestyle and halfpipe teams next compete at the mammoth mountain  world cup on march 2 and 3.
leeds, a three-time finalist, earned the victory with his nine hundred to alley-oop nine hundred, 720 tail to switch alley-oop 720, 540, right 540, and finished with a boosty 1080.
rochon explained that most of the aerialists had planned to downgrade their jumps, but not him.
you can view voleurz winning video from 2011, here.
duncan adams, 142.ollywood hangs on to yellow bib with third place finish beida lake, china (february 11, 2012) - canada's olivier rochon battled freezing temperatures and high winds en route to a bronze medal in the fis freestyle aerial event here today.
even technical specialist benni raich (aut) was trailing 0.66 seconds behind today's winner.
kent callister, bend, ore. 2.
kostelic has also increased his lead in the overall world cup at the same time.
funnel cake, kettle corn, crepe and roasted nut concessions  along with face painting and carnival games for the kids will all add to the  winter carnival atmosphere!
anais caradeux, france, 70.00. 5.
that's  over 80,000 vertical feet in a day.
he started his run with a switch  double cork 1080, followed by a rightside 900, a leftside 900, an alley oop 540  tailgrab, and a double cork 1260.
ben  ferguson, bend, ore., 83.50.
it's exciting to have  it all pay off.
simon dumont, 172. 8.
the youngest skier of the day was spot on with his 270 on the down-rail, frontside switch-up to backside 270 on the up-down rail, and 270 off the cannon rail, followed by a clean right 900 and big switch 1080.
guangpu qi of china used his  airtime well and placed first with a considerable score of 131.67; his  countryman zongyang zia took the silver at 127.66 and rochon was third with a  score of 123.45.
the monster 4x4 will roll in for winter  carnival day with free samples.
decisions  are made lot-by-lot about maceration times, fermentation temperatures, the type  and toast level of french oak barrels, and the length of barrel aging.
three professional ice carvers will each transform a 300 pound solid block of ice into a sculpted work of art in front of the festival crowd.
the event has been featured on espn, abc sports, mtv, winter x games and  the travel channel •
josiah  wells, new zealand, 76.75. 10.
we are proud of our accomplishments and the fulfilling rewards of giving back to those that deserve it.
his impressive victory ahead of beat feuz (sui) also earned kostelic the title in the combined world cup.
heavenly encourages guests to stay on the open trails as obstacles may still exist off the maintained runs.
with final scores not more than 0.6 points apart, it was clear the riders gave it their all.
the first annual instalment of intersection blew the roof off the whistler  conference centre in 2011.
mount snow has always been a  popular couples destination with stories of people meeting at the mountain, and  eventually getting married, dating back to the resort's early days of the  1950's.
lift construction and trail development are scheduled to take place starting the spring of 2012 pending approval of permitting with nh state and local township regulations.
just about every idea to blow it out of proportion in the name of good winter fun has been exploited.
the us swept the top spots with nick  goepper in first at 95.00, tom wallisch in second at 92.25 and bobby brown  third at 91.00.
"it has since grown into a wacky, full-bore competition  with speed suits, radar guns, costumes and family racing legacies.
snowtubing park the snowtubing park is open daily  during both february school vacation weeks.
conor garrecht-connelly, steamboat, colo. 5.
"but, one of the difficulties with an easy course is that it's hard for the better athletes to differentiate themselves," said taggart.
"this feels really great  especially because i didn't win at the last dew tour stop," said rolland,  after being awarded the cup.
guests can purchase a 2 or a 4-hour tubing session.
canadian men who did not advance to finals included: vincent gagnier of victoriaville, que.
think twitter meets skype meets facebook,  all in real life, all in real time.
13.81 sec., 71.98 mph adult women 1 - kelly haukebo  from angel fire, nm.
and to chuck allen, the godfather of  snowboarding and co-founder of the usasa, without whom this event would not  exist.
torin yater-wallace, snowmass, colo., 92.75.
matt margetts, 155. 10.
in the men's snowboard division, riders such as yale cousino, scotty vine, trevor jacob, ian thorley and garrettt warnick came out to compete but in the end, it was local hero and mountain high team rider, spencer link who stole the show and the $5000 top prize with his ridiculously solid run that included a cab 9, front 7 and a nasty back 10
women's freeski superpipe - tour rankings 1.devin
our guests can expect a great variety of terrain and laketahoe's best surface conditions for their trip," said pete sonntag, heavenly's general manager.
"i feel like all my hard work's been paying off -- in the gym and the summer and with my coaches and sponsor.
today naude went up against schwartz in the final.
ivica kostelic (cro) is the big winner of today's super combined in the olympic dress rehearsal in sochi (rus).
"the course really worked in my favor because i'm strong on  the rails and i worked hard to get my rail game on point here.
"and," he added, "my first coach,  [nicolas fontaine], "made us jump in every kind of weather, so i'm ready  for anything."
" rochon said he is confident in challenging weather conditions because he has good skiing skills, which help him land consistently.
carving is best seen in the olympics as parallel s / gs.
in addition, alli produces more than 130 original hours of tv across nbc and nbc sports network; this past year they also began successfully producing short form digital content includingthe alli show, step by step, and several other original content franchises which will continue to be available on the alli sports youtube channel and allisports.com.
areas beyond the ski area boundary are not patrolled or  maintained.
gatorade free flow tour crowns 2012 champions finals culminate at snowbasin resort with five new champions burr ridge, ill. - february 12, 2012 -
jack mitrani, 169. 7.
spectators will then have the opportunity to vote for their favorite carver and sculpture with a "peoples choice" award presented at 2pm.
native emerged the bronze medalist.
areas beyond the ski area boundary are not patrolled or maintained.
lesson tips are from 4pm to 6pm in the beginners area.
for more information or to schedule an interview, please contact john mccolly at 760 316 7803 cash purse breakdown open snowboard men's: 1st - spencer link - $5,000 2nd - jeremy page - $2,500 3rd - trevor jacob - $1,500 4th - garrett warnick - $600 5th - ian thorley - $200 open snowboard women's: 1st - katie williams - $2,000 2nd - nirvana ortanez - $1,000 3rd - jamie madrid - $500 4th - lynn neil - $100 5th - danika duffy - $50 open ski: 1st - mcrae williams - $3,500 2nd - patrick goodhough - $2,000 3rd - max peters - $750 4th - noah morrison - $200 5th - tim gage - $100seppe smits claims
in the ski division, some heavy hitters came out to compete including  patrick goodhough, max peters, noah morrison and time gage.
henniker, nh, february 14, 2012 --
anais caradeux, france,  70.00.
"i have  some work to do on my jumps, especially my full-full, for sure," said the  20-year-old who resides in quebec city, "but i didn't get to jump much  this winter so far because i broke my ankle in november, now that i'm on
the ttr world tour will move to oslo, norway from 10-19 february, crowning male and female halfpipe and slopestyle world champions at the first world snowboarding championships for snowboarders by snowboarders since 1999.
americans ali kariotis and sophia schwartz were second and third with scores of 23.93 and 19.76, respectively.
post-production trickery, exotic locations, superstar talent and big budget advantages are made irrelevant when filmmakers are tasked to shoot, edit and produce a 3-5 minute short film within 100km radius of whistler over the course of 72 hours.
registration ($20) is in the overflow room from 9-10:30am, competition kicks off at 11am.
marchdi gras - save the date for a village block party that'll redefine your sense of fun, march 3, 3pm til you can't take it anymore.
competing on the dew tour is something i've been wanting to do for a while, and  i'm really stoked that i get to do it now.
sarah conrad, canada, 68.50.
" competitors will ride the alyeska aerial tram starting at 9:00 a.m. and enter the specially designated event gate.
the occasion will start at 10:00am with the 'processional' going up the sunbrook quad, complete with wedding music, and couples will unload at the top to gather around a heart painted on the snow where a local justice of the peace will conduct the ceremony.
annual world championship shovel races held at angel fire resort in angel fire, new mexico this weekend.
he finished 14th after slapping back on his landing.
charlie,  lorna and their son, chuck, began work in 1971 by planning the construction of  a barn-like structure for the winery while they continued farming the already  planted vineyards.
wine dinners in the winter ski season  seemingly make for the perfect pairing.
her front five, back five, clean straight airs and front seven to cab three earned the highest marks of the contest.
" charlie has passed his passion and knowledge onto his three children,  charlie (the second), joseph and new winemaking apprentice jenny.
shannon branthoover, indian head, pa. 5.
sarah conrad, canada, 68.50. 6.
who had her best noram  finish, just outside the super final in 5th.
i have a lot to learn i think, but it should be lots of fun.
hannah teter, 83. 10.
ski area news home ski area links ski clubs advertising employment ski area events ski tips want ads great skiers lodging sixth annual sapphire outhouse race this saturday!
and who skis with the quebec performance team said his goal for the day was to finish in the top 16, "so, i'm really happy with the bronze medal."
maggie leon, west simsbury, conn. men's snowboard superpipe 1.
memories were made today and we look forward to helping create more  memories next year on valentine's day.
an endurance race event at heart, the north face vertical challenge  offers all disciplines (alpine, telemark skiers, snowboarders) an opportunity  to "lap the tram" and log as many vertical feet on alyeska resort's  infamous north face between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. as physically  possible.
" with a weekly schedule that includes content from the leading athletes,  industry movers and shakers, and premier events in action sports, the alli  sports youtube channel is an all-encompassing one-stop site to get your fill on  all that is action sports.
dinner by pats peak's executive chef, guy pelletier tickets purchased before the weekend of the event: $20 per person or $30 per couple.
in the rest of duals action, americans shane cordeau and reed snyderman were first and second.
13.73 sec., 72.40 mph 3 - justin gonzales from black lake, nm.
nearly that much came down at arapahoe basin as that resort reported a weekly snow accumulation of 19.25 inches and crested butte mountain resort reported an even 19 inches.
turski also finished on top of the dew cup standings with 200 points.
a new world record was set at 73.64 mph by chad  denney from angel fire, new mexico.
click here to view the world wide submission call for full  details.
13.81 sec., 71.98 mph adult women 1 - kelly haukebo from angel fire, nm.
initial diagnosis: meniscus injury
tomorrow's men's ski slopestyle finals will air live on nbc at 1:00pm mst.
the 2012 north face vertical challenge route takes a fresh approach with a new big-mountain course.
we are very excited about the prospect of adding a detachable lift at crotchedmountain.
noah  wallace, spokane, wash. women's snowboard slopestyle 1.
selected  lots are blended to make wines chuck wagner believes best express the vineyards  and vintage.
louie vito, bellefontaine, ohio, 98.00. 2.
gretchen bleiler, 180. 3.
more than a foot of new snow covered eldora and sunlight during the week-long storm, with those resorts both reporting 14 inches.
race course is set on the  "downdraft" trail for all ages and abilities.
freestyle action continues this week with  back-to-back mogul noram competitions at apex mountain resort tomorrow and  tuesday; an fis world cup aerials event in kreischberg, austria on february 17  and a world cup mogul competition in naeba, japan on february 18.
skiing, snowboarding, snowtubing, après-ski parties, live bands and more.
as the competitors head down the north face, they will stay to the left and descend thru an area called tram pocket.
so come on out and have a blast!!
the weather caused some serious consternation amongst athletes and coaches who were worried about safety.
as skullcandy cranked the tunes and hot chocolate and giveaways kept the  crowd warm, it was definitely a fun atmosphere despite the below-freezing  conditions!
now the series heads to shenyang in order to gather the final  three riders that will compete in the nike snow jam finals on february 25th in  beijing's chaoyang park.
competition begins at 10:00 am each day.
14.93 sec., 66.58 mph 2- paloma gonzales from angel fire, nm.
photo attached, credit hubert schriebl.
in the women's field americans kyley mckinnon and  madison olsen took the gold and silver at 132.16 and 126.29, respectively.
the most recent snowstorm to move through colorado was widespread, lasted several days, and left snow accumulations between 35 and eight inches.
"there were a lot of great moments today; from the couple that renewed their vows for their 44th wedding anniversary to the two couples that officially got married at the top of the mountain.
at this point, they will  enter the north star gate and continue through steep gladed terrain in the  northwest passage area which the resort developed two winters ago.
alli sports has made its name in the events and media world as the organization behind the summer and winter dew tour, gatorade free flow tour, lucas oil pro motocross championship, and the recently announced partnership with red bull to create the red bull signature series.
ayana onozuka, japan, 67.25. 6.
child (5 & under) $24 for rentals during pop.
women's freeski superpipe final results 1.devin
the stratton village will be lined with food and drink vendors, including an ice bar where you're encouraged to take a shot off the luge, and a day full of live music.
" huntsville, ontario's dara howell, the newest member of the canadian national slopestyle team, was sixth in the semi-finals, just missing a berth into today's finals.
"because of the wind i only got a couple of training jumps in, but i was confident about them so i decided to go for my hardest trick, [a quadruple twisting, triple backflip].
just being able to land runs and enjoy doing what i do has been awesome.
saturday & sunday: -this is a great opportunity to enjoy skiing and support nh families who  have children with cancer.
join for all or part of the event and know that you are helping to support nh families whose children have been diagnosed with cancer.
kostelic victory with consequences world cup win despite injury?
women's freeski superpipe finals awarded the first women's freeski dew cup  to devin logan, after her aggressive run blew away the competition with a score  of 90.00.
sculpted ice works of lakeville, pa will present an ice sculpture contest during the festival.
alpine  snowboarders from around the world at making turns at one of the three resort  during this week.
wylie  adams, carbondale, colo. 4.
in the  men's snowboard division, riders such as yale cousino, scotty vine, trevor  jacob, ian thorley and garrettt warnick came out to compete but in the end, it  was local hero and mountain high team rider, spencer link who stole the show  and the $5000 top prize with his ridiculously solid run that included a cab 9,  front 7 and a nasty back 10 double.
sophie rodriguez, france, 77.00. 5.
howelsen hill saw 17 inches from the storm and snowmass gained 16 inches.
it was a sweetheart of a valentine's day for penticton's andi naude as she earned her second straight noram gold in the dual moguls event today at apex mountain resort.
ben ferguson, bend, ore., 83.50.
wylie adams, carbondale, colo. 4.
advance reservations are recommended.
along with a great dinner, there are some fabulous live and silent auction items including tickets to all new england sports teams!
i got a little excited on my takeoff today so i  leaned back too much.
this event combines the competitive excitement of skier and boardercross with the speed-thrill of a downhill race.
as a reward, the winning team  will walk with a staggering $15,000 and recognition from their industry peers.
having clinched victory three times in four races  the croatian has now made things clear in this particular world cup ranking.
for the skiers it was all about the double corks with mcrae williams landing the smoothest run, dirtiest double and snagging the $3500 top prize.
under icy conditions 12.500 spectators set fire to the bergisel stadium for one of the most thrilling air&style competitions ever.
brita sigourney, carmel, calif.,  54.50.
" canada's only other noram-level aerialist, quebec team's dave blais, sat out  today's event with concussion symptoms.
some quick info: we had 100 total competitors from all corners of the country.
thomas krief, france, 90.75.
"we had excellent training and i really expected better finishes today," he said.
shawnee mountain is located in the pocono mountains of pennsylvania just  off exit 309 of interstate 80.
more details about the event can be found at loonmtn.com and information about peeps passes can be found atwww.loonmtn.com/info/rideloon.
"what we're providing on the alli sports channel is unique and fun, and with something new every day, viewers will get great access to action sports beyond the competitions.
kelly berger, mammoth lakes, calif. 2.
torin  yater-wallace, snowmass, colo., 92.75.
the round-trip bus and lift price is $89 and is purchased online.
david wise wins freeski superpipe, kevin rolland takes second consecutive dew cup at toyota
mason aguirre, duluth, minn., 80.00. 9.
as  the competitors head down the north face, they will stay to the left and  descend thru an area called tram pocket.
rentals available on a first-come, first-served basis.
- february 15, 2012 -
the snow is piling up and so are the deals.
on the women's side, china swept the podium with xin zhang in top  spot at 101.16; mengtao xu second at 95.70 and shuang cheng third with a score  of 89.30.
late submissions will not be considered.
13.5 sec., 73.64 mph (new record) 2 - john strader  from albuquerque, nm.
i tried to do my best and get the dew cup."
mount snow's director of marketing and events, matt gebo, took it a step  further by donning a tuxedo for the event.
the menu featured a  five -course evening from the kitchen of seven glaciers' executive chef jason  porter and finished with a delectable dessert from the resort's executive  pastry chef and chocolatier, judy carpetina.
the avalanche danger as  rated by the colorado avalanche information center in the steamboat zone is  considerable.
for both of the  teenagers it was only their second appearance at this level of event.
"the strongest athletes will snap off about 40 runs during the eight hour challenge.
the packed powder conditions will have you carving from edge to edge all day long.
next was alex beaulieu-marchand of quebec city in 10th at 70.00.
mount snow has always been a popular couples destination with stories of people meeting at the mountain, and eventually getting married, dating back to the resort's early days of the 1950's.
kevin rolland, 307. 2.
for five generations, the wagner family has lived in napa valley originally settling in the area in the 1800s.
jenny has been learning the ropes at caymus.
i am proud that our family  continues this way of life.
seppe smits (bel) takes the ttr big air tour trophy 2012 home, after coming in second here at the bergisel stadium in innsbruck, closely followed by niklas mattsson (swe).
congrats local dillon lovell - a hearty congratulations to stratton athlete dillon lovell for taking first at the freestyle a meet hosted on his home turf this past sunday, 2/12.
15.03 sec., 66.14 mph 3 - nancy eberhart from glen mills, pa. 15.42 sec., 64.47 mph master men jeff hambin from austin, tx. 13.56 sec., 73.31 mph sam wilson from angel fire, nm.
ski or ride a saturday night 3pm to 10pm.
"i couldn't ask for more, especially with my last dual against my hero from when i was young.
who had her best noram finish, just outside the super final in 5th.
this promises to be a fun  filled weekend, full of activity and promise!
iouri podladtchikov, 317.
featuring an identical rail setup throughout the tour, the local beidahu riders were out in force to impress the judges on their home turf.
topping a competitive field of the nation's best snowboard and freeski amateurs, the slopestyle finals saw andy partridge in ski and brooke voigte and kent callister in snowboard take the top spot, earning a prequalified spot in the 2012-13 winter dew tour.
callister doubled his win, topping the podium for the second day in a row, along with kelly berger in snowboard and broby leeds in freeski.
iouri podladtchikov, switzerland, 97.00.
she was second to ali kariotis of the us, who scored 23.79.
relying purely on originality, craft, speed and  endurance, the olympus 72 hour filmmaker showdown distills the art of  film-making into its purest form - taking creative vision from concept to  reality in record time in order for it to be enjoyed on the big screen by an  1800-strong audience.
along with the lift, the addition of 25 acres of skiable terrain will be a significant upgrade for the resort."
"even on a powder day, there's always room for friends, especially if you're skiing and riding in deep snow conditions, near trees, in the side-country or in avalanche prone areas.
topping a competitive field of the nation's best snowboard and  freeski amateurs, the slopestyle finals saw andy partridge in ski and brooke  voigte and kent callister in snowboard take the top spot, earning a  prequalified spot in the 2012-13 winter dew tour.
champagne powder® makes the perfect valentine's day present mother nature drops two feet of snow in a week, 65 inches since the new year steamboat springs, co-february 14, 2012-mother nature proved that she "loves" steamboat, by giving the best valentine's day present: a powder day.
sunday saw down-to-the-wire superpipe contests as the snow began to fall on utah.
après-ski entertainment and beer promotions in the sled pub fri, february 17: friday night karaoke: 4pm-close with djdaveentertainment.com wine & wing promo: bucket of toes & bucket of wings sat, february 18: ride & ski tour: 2-for-1 lift ticket w/r&s card, après-ski party après-ski beer promotion: 3-7pm harpoon après-ski party - live band: 4-9pm the mcmurphy's sun, february 19: après-ski beer promotion: 2-6pm samuel adams après-ski party - live band: 3-8pm dusty gray fri, february 24: friday night karaoke: 4pm-close with djdaveentertainment.com wine & wing promo: bucket of toes & bucket of wings sat, february 25: après-ski beer cancer lifeline promo: 3-7pm smuttynose/lifeline raffle après-ski party - live band: 4-9pm october sons sun, february 26: après-ski beer cancer lifeline promo: 3-7pm smuttynose/lifeline raffle après-ski party - live band: 12-5pm october sons host several lifeline benefit rock bands in "we will, we will rock cancer".
family fun is the focus for the february presidents' vacation week, when loon hosts a number of activities and events for the whole family, including mo the clown and his balloon creations, a magic show, seasonal program meet and greet, fluorescent nights, snow tubing, zipline and more.
since january 1st, steamboat has seen 5.4 feet of snow pile up at  mid-mountain and 6 feet at the summit.
the ability for us to provide the value of even more time on the slopes is very exciting.
an endurance race event at heart, the north face vertical challenge offers all disciplines (alpine, telemark skiers, snowboarders) an opportunity to "lap the tram" and log as many vertical feet on alyeska resort's infamous north face between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. as physically possible.
radio station will provide djs with outdoor music and giveaways  all from the base of shawnee mountain.
a weekly total of 20 inches of new snow fell at both copper mountain and purgatory at durango mountain resort.
women's freeski superpipe finals awarded the first women's freeski dew cup to devin logan, after her aggressive run blew away the competition with a score of 90.00.
it is assumed that there is a problem with his meniscus (which had already been giving him trouble) which flared up during kostelic's outstanding slalom run.
we had 100 total competitors from all corners  of the country.
the bronze medal means rochon, who has been on the podium four times already this season, keeps a grip on the yellow leader's bib by a margin of 50 points over jia.
tomorrow i'm just going to go our and have fun, skiing is what i  like to do best," said naude, who added that the course today was  "pretty easy - quite flat and not too technical."
presented by shawnee mountain ski area and sponsored by coca-cola, winter carnival day will feature ice sculptures, music, fun games and trivia contests, product sampling, outdoor bbq, prizes and giveaways.
reilly ryan  scored 26.12 and dylan walczyk was 25.19.
this year, the cholula triple air show was upgraded to a 3 star ttr (ticket  to ride) event which means competitors earned points toward their overall  worldwide ranking.
this continues to be the most successful fundraising event for the childhood cancer lifeline of nh.
logan, dover, vt., 90.00. 2.
so, i'm working really hard to stay in the moment and look at everything jump by jump.
"what better way to toast this holiday than by playing in the champagne powder snow with loved ones," said chris diamond, president & chief operating officer for steamboat ski & resort corporation.
it is not uncommon to find a carver making s / gs turns dragging a hip during a graceful turn, laying down trenched in the snow, and a grin that reach ear to ear!
arielle gold, steamboat springs, colo., 26.25.
• angel fire resort has been hosting the event for  the past 30 years - racers are expected from all corners of the country.
the casa snowfest returned to loon for its twelfth year on friday, february 3.
noelle edwards, west dover, vt. 4.
the  montreal-native had today's event sewn up on the first run where she scored a  93.75.
downhill the foundation stone, slalom the icing on the cake ivica kostelic had already put in a strong performance in the super combined downhill run, paving the way for the slalom with a good 15th place, only 1.52 seconds behind the leader.
"the strongest  athletes will snap off about 40 runs during the eight hour challenge.
kevin rolland, france, 93.00.
spencer shaw, 220. 4.
the  women's division was won by kelly haukebo from angel fire new mexico, with a  time of 14.93 seconds, at 66.58 mph.
• top speeds regularly exceed  60 miles per hour.
to sign up, visit www.briefcaserace.org.
this new filmmaking competition gives the audience and the media a sneak peek into what it's like to produce an original and award-worthy action sports film, with the added pressure of time restrictions.
the tahoe super 2 also includes two additional afternoons, 12:30-4 p.m., of skiing and riding at squaw valley or alpine meadows.
"the course was really good," said partridge, only fifteen years-old.
in addition, alli produces more than 130  original hours of tv across nbc and nbc sports network; this past year they  also began successfully producing short form digital content includingthe  alli show, step by step, and several other original content  franchises which will continue to be available on the alli sports youtube  channel and allisports.com.
silverton measured a weekly total of 25 inches and telluride benefited with 23 inches.
with a pre-qualified spot in next season's winter  dew tour, leeds said after his five-plus point win over second place, "i'm  very excited!
jon bolta, a longtime (yet unrelated) family friend continues as winemaker for conundrum, perfecting his craft of making that puzzling, white wine blend.
before i only had my friends, and they were my competitors, so it wasn't quite the same.
alpine snowboarding, typically known as "carving"  uses hard boots, much like ski boots, and snowboards that generally have most  advanced technology in the ski and snowboarding industry.
he had the biggest chance of winning the ttr world tour big air title, but missing the superfinal tonight, meant he had to watch seppe claim the championship.
simon  dumont, 172. 8.
meanwhile, in aerial action at utah olympic park, canadian national 'c' team member marc-antoine labbe-giguere of quebec city was the top canadian in 7th with a combined score of 142.36 .
said berger of her success, "it's really exciting!
the weather caused some  serious consternation amongst athletes and coaches who were worried about  safety.
national team member p-o gagne of montreal was 17th; david cooksley was 27th; national team member hugo blanchette of quebec city was 28th; luke ulsifer was 29th; troy minogue was 30th; zach hoffman was 31st;
" rolland edged out yater-wallace by a quarter of a point to land in second  place to earn the 2012 freeski superpipe dew cup.
tucker perkins, north hampton, nh., 78.00. 9.
this promises to be a fun filled weekend, full of activity and promise!
noram action continues in park city  and telluride tomorrow with another aerial and mogul event.
14.93 sec., 66.58 mph 2- paloma gonzales from angel  fire, nm.
five photographers will be awarded a spot to present a 9 minute  slideshow of their life's work on april 19th, 2012 in whistler, bc.
"i know this pain, i've often had  it and most of the time it was the meniscus.
logan was able to  land seven tricks due to the superpipe 615-foot length, the longest ever built  for a contest.
for more information, visitwww.usasa.org.
the tickets must be purchased in advance.
14.1 sec., 70.50 mph thomas slivan from buffalo, ny.
pecha kucha, loosely meaning 'chit chat' in japanese, tasks presenters with the challenge of communicating their thoughts, ideas and concepts in short bursts of 20 x 20 second power point slides.
book the champagne powder package by february 29th through steamboat central reservations® to save an additional 20% on lifts and lodging and get $100 in boat bucks.
14.9 sec., 66.72 mph world famous shovel race championships return to the slopes at angel fire resort new mexico wild winter competition set for february 11-12 angel fire, n.m.--(business wire)--competitors of all ages are once again waxing their snow shovels for the legendary angel fire shovel race championship happening february 11 - 12, 2012.
in 19th; charles gagnier of victoriaville, que.
friday afternoon, the freeskiers cleared the professionals from the slope  course at snowbasin as they went head to head and run for run for first place.
the women went  first, where berger made her first trip to the finals worthwhile.
iouri podladtchikov,  switzerland, 97.00.
the inaugural cloud nine nuptials at mount snow resort in southern vermont has more than 20 couples signed up, three of which will tie-the-knot for the first time with the others renewing their marriage vows at the top of the mountain on valentine's day, including last year's mount snow wedding giveaway winners dave rothman and tyne pike-sprenger who are coming back to the resort to celebrate their one year anniversary.
"the course really worked in my favor because i'm strong on the rails and i worked hard to get my rail game on point here.
kostelic then left his opponents no chance in "his" discipline.
first women's dew cup snowbasin, utah - feb. 11, 2012 -
advanced reservations must be made with group sales in order to attend scout weekend.
skiers and riders can  ski/ride day and night enjoying trails for all abilities and three terrain  parks.
the wagner  wine dinner will start at 7:00 p.m. seatings for the dinner are $165 per  person.
i'm  just in amazement right now.
snow continues to blanket ski  town, u.s.a.®.
red oak's general manager, tony stoughton, will be in aspen buttermilk, friday, february 10, 2012 for q&a. please call for scheduling: (303) 921-6809tahoe junior freeride series makes season debut at sugar bowl "inside alli sports", "the frendly times" and "awsm on alli" with todd richards headline the offering february 7, 2012 -- burr ridge, ill. - alli sports, a division of the nbc sports group, and youtube have teamed up to provide daily original action sports content.
charlie wagner will be joining the staff of seven glaciers and guests of  the wagner wine dinner for an evening of family-style story telling.
trevor jacob, 160. 8.
usasa members can earn points toward national competition in the usasa giant slalom and slalom event on february 12 and in a pipe event on february 24.
he responded: 'it was a great night, and it felt really good being here.
mark reninga, fredonia, n.y. 3.
sophia schwartz also of the us was  third at 23.03.
"what we're providing on the  alli sports channel is unique and fun, and with something new every day,  viewers will get great access to action sports beyond the competitions.
under the lights on saturday nights! saturday night pop is only $43 and includes skiing, snowboarding,  snowtubing, rental equipment, lesson tips and entertainment.
competitors will pass under the tram  tower and race towards small dawgs near west line.
this path  results in 2,000 vertical feet of off-piste terrain with a final exit near the  groomed trails of the refinery terrain park where with the aerial tram in  sight, competitors will get a chance to regroup before charging another lap.
sophie rodriguez, 113. 5.
this lift will provide quick access to the summit, ultimately providing more value and vertical to our guests.
each winery represents a unique talent and passion amongst members of the wagner family.
the menu featured a five -course evening from the kitchen of seven glaciers' executive chef jason porter and finished with a delectable dessert from the resort's executive pastry chef and chocolatier, judy carpetina.
said pat terry, general manager of crotched mountain.
trevor jacob,  malibu, calif., 88.00. 5.
the next  canadian woman was christel hamel of st. sauveur, que.
tickets are $20 and can be purchased at the little sister tubing center.
quebec team members laurent dumais and kerrian chunland were 11th and 12th 23.28 and 23.12, respectively.
mt snow cloud nine nuptials at mount snow attracts more than 20 couples; some who  will tie the knot for the first time, others will renew their vows at 3,600 feet west dover, vt (february 13, 2012) -
"with fantastic conditions this winter and a strong repeat class of competitors, it was time to raise the bar and update the course," said brian burnett, mountain services manager and race founder.
for more information or to schedule an interview, please contact john  mccolly at 760 316 7803 cash purse breakdown
earning the win with an impressive run was park city local partridge.
"so there was a little bit of trouble in my  mind.
it is assumed that there is a problem with his meniscus (which had already  been giving him trouble) which flared up during kostelic's outstanding slalom  run.
"february and march are traditionally our snowiest months, and it looks like the storm door may be opening.
"my mom was happy i made it down the course safe."
a full schedule is available at loonmtn.com.
loon is proud to host both this successful fundraising event for casa, as well as a fun day on the snow for casa volunteers.
the freeskiers took to the 614-foot long pipe last, proving to the  supportive crowd that the show was not over.
so, i'm working really hard to stay in  the moment and look at everything jump by jump.
shows begin at 8:30 p.m. and are open to anyone 21 and over.
alyeska resort's award-winning mountain-top restaurant, seven glaciers, has embarked on its third season of winter wine dinners.
when asked if he's feeling pressure to keep amassing results, rochon replied, "i try not too look at the big picture, when i do that i get ahead of myself and i learned the hard way that when i get ahead of myself i go down.
the beautiful black virus race werks 180 pgs will be available for viewing and scheduled demo.
kyle mack, w. bloomfield, mich., 73.75. 10.
with a 50-50, 50-50 frontside boardslide, tailgrab off the cannon rail, frontside 360, backside 180, voigte earned her spot in next year's winter dew tour.
telluride mogul noram telluride, colorado (february 8, 2012) - sixteen-year-old canadians andi naude and alexis lalonde enjoyed their best noram finishes here today in a single mogul event, taking silver and bronze, in their respective categories.
-view the childhood cancer awareness quilt.
park&ride runs saturday, sunday and monday
the sixth annual sapphire outhouse race takes place this saturday, february 18th at 3:00 pm.
the two-day session costs $200 and includes a two day lift ticket and rates are available for new england pass holders, too.
*this event is now sold out
the additional 25 acres of terrain will encompass three extra slopes and two glade areas.
the occasion will start at 10:00am with the 'processional' going  up the sunbrook quad, complete with wedding music, and couples will unload at  the top to gather around a heart painted on the snow where a local justice of  the peace will conduct the ceremony.
renee mcelduff of australia was third at 125.77.
the conditions were hard, but this was my mistake
the majority of activities will take place from 11am to 2pm in the base area, slope side.
'winning the big air tour trophy was unexpected, i was very happily surprised.'
a gripping final was the perfect conclusion of an action packed night.
squaw valley and alpine meadows guests visiting over the president's day holiday will have more than new snow to look forward to with a variety of events taking place at squaw valley and alpine meadows.
take a spin with marsha as she gives you a tour of big ben, lower middlebrook and tyrolienne, parks designed for all abilities.
jessika jenson, rigby, idaho 4.
"beidahu snow jam wrap-up this saturday saw the nike snow jam series head to beidahu for the second stop of the tour.
the wagner wine dinner is scheduled for sunday, february 26 and  reservations are highly recommended.
if you use any of the photos please credit "charles olsen, angel fire resort, 2012".
"but, one of the difficulties with  an easy course is that it's hard for the better athletes to differentiate  themselves," said taggart.
" turski, who didn't have a slopestyle coach before this season, credits hard  work and the resources that have become available to her since the olympic  announcement, from the canadian freestyle ski association and its partners as  well and her main personal sponsor, red bull, with her results to date this  season.
saturday: october sons will be playing in the sled pub from 4pm to 9pm. sunday: october sons hosting several lifeline benefit rock bands in "we will,  we will rock cancer" from 12pm to 5pm.
15.42 sec., 64.47 mph master men jeff hambin from austin, tx.
anna segal of australia was second at 90.75 and logan took the bronze medal at 89.00.
the expansion of terrain will benefit all of our clientele with an easier route off the top of the mountain and trails that will access our progressive terrain parks, glade skiing and allow us to stay committed to the ski racing culture of new hampshire."
it's hit, but not really.
wpc, which are designed by women to cater to women who are comfortable on terrain ranging from blue square to double black diamond rated, will be offered march 10-11.
and that's honestly what's made the difference for me.
" rolland edged out yater-wallace by a quarter of a point to land in second place to earn the 2012 freeski superpipe dew cup.
contestants are judged  on their line choice, control, fluidity, technique and overall impression.
charlie wagner will be joining the staff of seven glaciers and guests of the wagner wine dinner for an evening of family-style story telling.
the slalom expert acted as if nothing had happened during the run with his  textbook turns on what was a very difficult piste.
spencer link wins the $20,000 cholula triple air at  mountain high wrightwood, ca - february 7, 2012:
downhill the foundation stone, slalom the icing on the cake ivica kostelic had already put in a strong performance in the super  combined downhill run, paving the way for the slalom with a good 15th place,  only 1.52 seconds behind the leader.
"i'm on a hot streak for sure," said wise after his first dew tour win.
naude, 16, took won the singles yesterday with a score of 24.90 in the ladies super final.
closing out the day, the callister kicked off a weekend of success with his frontside lipslide on the first rail, boardslide to fakie on the 2nd rail, cab boardslide 270 out off the cannonbox, cab 900, frontside 1080.
olympus also steps up as the sponsor for the ever-popular 72hr filmmaker showdown, the short filmmaking competition that defies logic and breaks levels the playing field.
turski's dew tour win wraps up a five-medal weekend for canada ogden, utah (february 12, 2012) -
" noram action continues next week with moguls events in val st. come, quebec
in its fourth year, alyeska resort's north face vertical challenge will feature a new course this winter.
snow seventeen couples renew their vows and two couples tie the knot during the inaugural cloud nine nuptials at mount snow on valentine's day west dover, vt (february 14, 2012) -
and to chuck allen, the godfather of snowboarding and co-founder of the usasa, without whom this event would not exist.
forecasts are calling for additional snow through thursday with 4-8 inches of accumulation possible.
13.73 sec., 72.40 mph 3 - justin gonzales from black  lake, nm.
three professional ice carvers will each transform a 300  pound solid block of ice into a sculpted work of art in front of the festival  crowd.
women's snowboard superpipe - tour rankings 1.
in 2012, 6 to 8 teams, each receiving an immediate $1,000, will be invited to face the all-powerful voleurz team, victorious winners of this groundbreaking new event.
along with a great dinner, there are some fabulous live and silent auction  items including tickets to all new england sports teams!
lift tickets are valid the day after check-in, and are for consecutive days.
the same ticket purchased at the ski resort monday evening will be $15.wolf creek whistler, b.c. -
the national slopestyle and halfpipe teams next compete at the mammoth mountain world cup on march 2 and 3.
eventually, organizers altered the regular format to a one-jump event, which meant that each athlete had only one chance and about three-and-a-half seconds in the air to make the podium.
for both of the teenagers it was only their second appearance at this level of event.
the speed specialists certainly have bigger  advantages here.
heavenly will have 50 percent of the resort open, totaling 2,400 acres.
kelly berger, mammoth lakes, calif. men's snowboard slopestyle 1.
max jenson, rye, n.h. encompassing the "flow to pro" theme that is the cornerstone of the gatorade free flow tour, the two overall snowboard superpipe and slopestyle champions and the overall freeski superpipe and slopestyle champions earnedd a spot to compete against the pros at the first stop of the 2012-13 winter dew tour next season.
her front  five, back five, clean straight airs and front seven to cab three earned the  highest marks of the contest.
age groups of 10-14 and 15-18 for both boys and girls will be battling  for points that now count towards national ranking.
childhood cancer lifeline weekend saturday & sunday, february 25 & february 26 12th annual childhood cancer lifeline event.
luke ulsifer of calgary was the top canadian man in seventh position.
and the resort is extending hours on monday, february 20th until 9 pm in celebration of president's day.
scout weekend - saturday & sunday, march 3 & 4 this is a special scout weekend where scouts come to pats peak to enjoy skiing, riding and/or snowtubing.
katrien aerts, 120. 8.
before i only had my friends, and  they were my competitors, so it wasn't quite the same.
a limited quantity of snowmont music festival pre-sale festival  passes are expected to go on sale for $124.95 saturday, february 11 at 8:00  a.m. pst, followed by a limited quantity of advanced festival passes for  $149.95, which will go on sale immediately following the pre-sale being sold  out.
for lodging information, call  800-shawnee (shawnee inn), or 800-poconos (visitors bureau).
ses carving in aspen with red oak
and, matt joosten was 53rd.
formerly known as the ski and ride-a-thon, this event is a major fundraiser for new england disabled sports.
five photographers will be awarded a spot to present a 9 minute slideshow of their life's work on april 19th, 2012 in whistler, bc.
a mecca for designers and entrepreneurs, pecha kucha will be showcasing some of the funniest, smartest and most entertaining minds at the telus world ski and snowboard festival.
kirra kotsenburg, park city, utah 5.
cash and prizes will be given to the fastest competitors in all age-specific categories.
jack dawe, freeport 5.
skiers and riders are encouraged to safely enjoy the fresh powder and packed powder conditions, and be aware of changing mountain conditions.
scotty pike, sun valley, idaho, 63.00.
brooke voigt, canada 2.
ayana onozuka, 140. 7.
you can catch all of the final runs from today's top finishers here.
simon dumont, bethel, maine, 91.75. 5.
the 2012 ttr big air world tour title - peetu piiroinen wins the billabong air&style innsbruck, austria - february 4th 2012 - peetu piiroinen (fin) wins the 6star billabong air&style with steady backside 1260 mute grabs all evening long.
"some of the folks joining us  for the cloud nine nuptials met here and even got married here, so mount snow  holds a special place in many hearts.
each rider  gets two shots to clock the fastest time down the front of the angel fire ski  mountain.
new weekly marquee  shows:inside alli sports, a weekly news show hosted by pat parnell and  angela sun, providing insightful perspective into the biggest stories in action  sports;awsm on alli, hosted by legendary snowboarder todd richards,  giving you his fun and humorous take on the industry; andthe frendly times , a behind-the-scenes look into the lifestyles of the unique snowboard  athletes who comprise the frends crew.
"even on a powder day, there's always room for friends, especially if  you're skiing and riding in deep snow conditions, near trees, in the  side-country or in avalanche prone areas.
tickets purchased the weekend of the event: $25 per person or $40 per  couple.
it's a perfect way to enjoy the new snow with someone specials.
on the men's side, four canadians advanced to finals, but none reached the podium.
competitors will pass under the tram tower and race towards small dawgs near west line.
presented by shawnee mountain ski area and sponsored by coca-cola, winter  carnival day will feature ice sculptures, music, fun games and trivia contests,  product sampling, outdoor bbq, prizes and giveaways.
josiah wells, new zealand, 76.75. 10.
on the men's side, the us swept the podium in yesterday's single mogul competition.
sunday afternoon/evening:
noram action continues in park city and telluride tomorrow with another aerial and mogul event.
awsm  has been a project of mine for a while and to have this platform on youtube to  showcase it is amazing," said richards.
deadline for submissions is thursday, march 1st, 2012 (prior to 5pm).
the inaugural cloud nine nuptials at mount snow resort in southern vermont had 17 couples renew their vows and two couples tie-the-knot for the first time at the peak of the mountain this morning to celebrate valentine's day.
"i can't describe my feelings right now.
competitors sit on the  scoop of a standard aluminum snow shovel, handle pointed downhill, and then  lift their hands and feet to allow gravity to take them for a ride.
turski, who won the x games two weeks ago and  was also crowned x games female athlete of the year, has had a perfect season  so far, winning every slopestyle event she's entered.
" mount snow also offered two lift tickets for $49 available for advance purchase online prior to monday, february 13.
the event has  even been featured by national news outlets including espn, abc sports, mtv and  the travel channel.
despite going into a clear  lead he appeared to be disturbed by something.
when the chinese guys who jumped after me saw that i landed well, they decided to do harder tricks too i don't mind, i'm happy for them, but i am glad that i blocked a chinese sweep.
lalonde explained that while he had an excellent run in the finals, he got a little out of control in the middle section of the super final, but managed to pull it together in time to do his signature jump, a 'cork 720 truck driver'.
in 17th; philip casabon of grand-mère,  que.
the first of the series, held on sunday, january 29,  featured merryvale winery from napa valley, california.
it's the kind of course turski loves.
children as young as age 6 are invited to participate in the "little  scoop" race category.
canadian men who did not advance to finals included: vincent  gagnier of victoriaville, que.
in 17th; philip casabon of grand-mère, que.
the gatorade free flow tour was one of the main things i was focusing  on this year, so i'm stoked."
besides the three-day music festival, the nor'beaster event will also include  the winter tweed river music festival at pico mountain march 23-25, k-town  showdown rail jam march 24, air, metal and mayhem april 1, community events and  more.
forecasts are calling for additional  snow through thursday with 4-8 inches of accumulation possible.
other restrictions apply.
childhood cancer lifeline weekend saturday & sunday,  february 25 & february 26 12th annual childhood cancer lifeline event.
kelly berger,  mammoth lakes, calif. men's snowboard slopestyle 1.
big trucks, street parties, balloon animals, kids' concerts, races, s'mores and snowtubing are just a few of the festivities in the lineup.
a mecca for designers and entrepreneurs,  pecha kucha will be showcasing some of the funniest, smartest and most  entertaining minds at the telus world ski and snowboard festival.
offer is valid for one-night stays and available for other room types, rates will vary.
" the next canadian woman was christel hamel of st. sauveur, que.
lalonde scored 24.99.
zachary black, 199. 5.
heavenly mountain resort 18" of snow since monday allows resort to open more expert terrain heavenly mountain resort, calif./nev.
he made it down the course in 13.5 seconds kids as young as 6 can compete
red oak is very please to announce that we have reached another milestone in the skiing and snowboarding industry and will have at this years summit expression session annual carving event a ride and race ready alpine snowboard built by virus featuring our industry leading glide technology using "superglide" construction technology and tetra race base, (trb), a waxless base material.
eventually, organizers altered the regular format to a one-jump event,  which meant that each athlete had only one chance and about three-and-a-half  seconds in the air to make the podium.
jenny has been  learning the ropes at caymus.
" with their wins at the gatorade free flow tour finals, partridge, voigte callister, berger and leeds will make their professional contest debut at the 2012-13 winter dew tour, where they will compete against the biggest names in their sport.
the wagner wine dinner is scheduled for sunday, february 26 and reservations are highly recommended.
a special $10 evening ticket - good from 3 - 9 pm is available online.
as skullcandy cranked the tunes and hot chocolate and giveaways kept the crowd warm, it was definitely a fun atmosphere despite the below-freezing conditions!
xuetong cai, china, 89.75. 4.
aj kemppainen, finland, 86.25. 7.
proceeds from the north  face vertical challenge will benefit alyeska resort's ski patrol avalanche dog  program.
13.56 sec., 73.31 mph sam wilson from angel fire, nm.
if you use any  of the photos please credit "charles olsen, angel fire resort, 2012".
matt  margetts, canada, 40.00.
kirby kelly, chicago, ill. 3.
thomas krief, 191. 7.
the challenge for participants is to try to ride and ski from every lift within their ability at loon and everyone who completes the challenge will be entered into a raffle to win a pair of fischer skis.
the popular women's performance camps (wpc), which debuted last winter, return this season.
the first annual instalment of intersection blew the roof off the whistler conference centre in 2011.
steamboat central reservations, which represents the majority of the lodging properties in the area, offers a variety of winter vacation packages and air specials as well as its exclusive online icoris technology, allowing guests to book their entire vacation online.
the men's freeski superpipe final at the toyota championship saw one of the closest dew cup races in winter dew tour history culminate today in snowbasin.
rosalind groenewoud, 154. 4.
lesson tips are  from 4pm to 6pm in the beginners area.
labbe-giguere, who was injured  earlier in the season, said, "i'm not really happy with my performance, i  haven't had a lot of training but i hoped to do better today.
turski's medal wraps up a  five-medal weekend for the canadian freestyle team, including one in aerials,  one in halfpipe, three in moguls and one in ski slopestyle.
labbé-giguère represents canada at uop aerial norams, finishes seventh at the utah olympic park in the third of three aerial noram events today, canada's lone entry, marc-antoine labbé-giguère, was seventh.
hudson knoll, hood  river, ore. 4.
and feb. 23-24 marks the second annual rahlves banzai tour stop at alpine meadows.
finals culminate at snowbasin resort with five new champions burr ridge, ill. - february 12, 2012 -
seven glaciers prepares a wine dinner feast as special guest charlie wagner of mer soleil winery makes appearance at upcoming wine dinner on february 26, 2012 february 1, 2012 (girdwood, alaska) -
reservations are highly recommended, as the first camp held in january sold out.
pecha kucha:  monday april 16th, the $10 ticket includes one drink ticket and a seat at the  most stimulating event of the year!
jon bolta, a longtime (yet unrelated) family  friend continues as winemaker for conundrum, perfecting his craft of making  that puzzling, white wine blend.
it definitely feels good to have people at the start gate cheering  for you and people to consult on your run.
world cup action continues here tomorrow with a mogul event.
mount snow's director of marketing and events, matt gebo, took it a step further by donning a tuxedo for the event.
now the series heads to shenyang in order to gather the final three riders that will compete in the nike snow jam finals on february 25th in beijing's chaoyang park.
in addition, all four runners up will receive $1,500 cash as an appearance fee.
and who skis with the quebec performance team said his goal  for the day was to finish in the top 16, "so, i'm really happy with the  bronze medal."
with massive crowds cheering them on, the contestants at the gatorade free flow tour finals took to the professional winter dew tour courses in prospect of being crowned the 2012 champion.
his straight air and front ten were a clean start to  his cab seven, front nine, back nine and five.
tickets for  the shows are $10 in advanced and $15 day of show, and can be purchased online,  at any alyeska ticket office and over the phone at 907-754-2275.
with a pre-qualified spot in next season's winter dew tour, leeds said after his five-plus point win over second place, "i'm very excited!
call toll-free (800) 922-2722 or  visit steamboat.com while the new snow is welcome by everyone, the resort reminds skiers and  riders to be aware of changing mountain conditions.
with this initial effort began a bonded  relationship, which would endure until charlie's death in 2002.
when asked if he's feeling pressure to  keep amassing results, rochon replied, "i try not too look at the big  picture, when i do that i get ahead of myself and i learned the hard way that  when i get ahead of myself i go down.
quebec team members laurent dumais  and kerrian chunland were 11th and 12th 23.28 and 23.12, respectively.
child (5 & under)  $24 for rentals during pop.
local boys yan ziqi (2nd) and  xiao yuan (3rd) also deservedly moved through, shredding hard all session on  each feature.
for the month of february, the featured vineyards and wineries includes a  meritage of wines from the wagner family of napa valley, california.
angle fire annual world championship shovel races held at angel fire resort in angel  fire, new mexico this weekend.
with new snow and more on the way, now is a great time to plan ahead and take advantage of the incredible value of the kids ski free package - purchase an adult two-day lift ticket and receive two children's two-day tickets for free when you stay at the village at squaw valley.
jamieson irvine of barrie, ont. was 11th at 69.00 and  drummondville, que.'s jf houle was 12th after falling on both his runs, at  13.00.
while replacing the current summit fixed grip lift, the only high speed quad lift in southern nh will provide an uphill capacity of 2400 persons per hour, and access to an additional 25 acres of terrain in less than 4 minutes of time on the lift.
" huntsville, ontario's dara howell, the newest member of the canadian national  slopestyle team, was sixth in the semi-finals, just missing a berth into  today's finals.
the avalanche danger as rated by the colorado avalanche information center in the steamboat zone is considerable.
"this is an inaugural year for both the snowmont music  festival and nor'beaster; we're looking forward to a great start with our new  spring event lineup."
snow continues to blanket ski town, u.s.a.®.
" the organized competition has been held for over 30 years at angel fire  resort, and racers are expected from all corners of the country.
the region's best junior big  mountain skiers will test their skills each day in a two run cumulative score  format.
"valentine's day is a great reminder that skiing and riding is that much more fun with someone you love," said john kohnke, patrol director.
alyeska resort's award-winning  mountain-top restaurant, seven glaciers, has embarked on its third season of  winter wine dinners.
loveland and winter park enjoyed 21.5 inches of new snow for the week and monarch celebrated 20.5 inches.
the telus world ski and snowboard festival has released the call for entries for the world's preeminent action sports photography competition, the olympus pro photographer showdown.
dillon skis with stratton's allegro freestyle a team, a seasonal program.
andy partridge, park city, utah 2.
sophia schwartz also of the us was third at 23.03.
the tahoe junior freeride  series began as a friendly competition between sugar bowl and squaw valley's  freeride team and has since become a structured regional event that boasts some  of the best junior talent in the country, with teams representing squaw free,  auburn ski club, kirkwood freeride team, squaw valley freeride team, alpine  meadows freeride team and the sugar bowl freeride team.
the grooming crew spends each night grooming out  the slopes to provide the best snow conditions daily.
they will be able to use the patrol line to reload the tram and accumulate laps until 5:00 p.m. top finishers in the race in their respective categories will win a variety of winter-themed prizes as well as bragging rights.
the women's division was won by kelly haukebo from angel fire new mexico, with a time of 14.93 seconds, at 66.58 mph.
hudson knoll, hood river, ore. 4.
year-to-date: 298" film, photo  and fast-paced intellect at twssf 2012 whistler, b.c. -
teams are challenged to produce a 5-7  minute action sports film incorporating both skiing and snowboarding, shot over  7 consecutive days, starting tuesday april 10th, all within 100km of whistler.
"i'm on a hot streak for sure,"  said wise after his first dew tour win.
followed by the men's snowboard division, the contest came down to everyone's second runs as they proved their abilities were made to flow to pro.
she was second  to ali kariotis of the us, who scored 23.79.
decisions are made lot-by-lot about maceration times, fermentation temperatures, the type and toast level of french oak barrels, and the length of barrel aging.
with a 50-50, 50-50 frontside boardslide, tailgrab off the cannon rail,  frontside 360, backside 180, voigte earned her spot in next year's winter dew  tour.
lalonde explained that while he had an excellent run in the finals, he got a  little out of control in the middle section of the super final, but managed to  pull it together in time to do his signature jump, a 'cork 720 truck driver'.
each winery represents a unique talent and passion amongst members of the  wagner family.
the monster 4x4 will roll in for winter carnival day with free samples.
the $20,000 cholula triple air show returned to mountain high on saturday, february 4, 2012, offering the largest prize purse in southern california.
reservations for the dinner can be made by calling 907-754-2237 or online.
just about every idea  to blow it out of proportion in the name of good winter fun has been  exploited.
they will be able to use the patrol  line to reload the tram and accumulate laps until 5:00 p.m. top finishers in  the race in their respective categories will win a variety of winter-themed  prizes as well as bragging rights.
proceeds from the north face vertical challenge will benefit alyeska resort's ski patrol avalanche dog program.
special thanks goes out to the event's sponsors, cholula hot sauce, jarritos, continuous, and more.
photos and results below as well.
and this time, it's a day jam!
"i have some work to do on my jumps, especially my full-full, for sure," said the 20-year-old who resides in quebec city, "but i didn't get to jump much this winter so far because i broke my ankle in november, now that i'm on snow my jumps are getting better and better the more i train.
"following the  success of the inaugural cloud nine nuptials we have already decided to make  this an annual event," said gebo.
imagine nascar on ice!!!!loon mountain's midseason calendar is packed with special events lincoln, nh, february 5: new hampshire's loon mountain rolls into february with over 97% of total trail acreage open, five terrain parks, new hampshire's only superpipe, and celebrates midseason with a calendar full of upcoming entertainment and special events.
pats peak nastar race course the nastar race course will be open everyday during the  february president's vacation week from 11am to 3pm.
already holding the lead, she dropped into the pipe, starting her run  with a japan grab to a 540 tail grab, followed by a flare, mute grab, alley-oop  critical grab, 720 mute, ending with a switch alley-oop 540.
so all in all the chances were balanced," says kostelic, who once again showed that he is capable of seizing an opportunity.
winter dew tour toyota championship snowbasin, utah feb. 9-12, 2012 women's snowboard superpipe final results 1.
this was hardly surprising as the winner of the combined world cup had to limp out of the finish area and was treated immediately in the medical tent.
labbé-giguère  represents canada at uop aerial norams, finishes seventh at  the utah olympic park in the third of three aerial noram events today, canada's  lone entry, marc-antoine labbé-giguère, was seventh.
this  unparalleled celebration of still images, and of the commitment shown to build  a body of work that captures time and captivates the human spirit, tasks  photographers to create a body of work indicative of their personal  photographic journey.
benoit valentin, france, 29.75.
" the only other canadian in the field was quebec team member david blais, who  was 9th at 137.00
now in its fourteenth year, the event continues to gain strength with many raving this year's course was the best it's ever been.
trevor  jacob, 160. 8.
pato banton is scheduled to play thursday to saturday night, february 23-25, 2012.
for lodging information, call 800-shawnee (shawnee inn), or 800-poconos (visitors bureau).kostelic victory with consequences world cup win despite injury?
spencer whiting, mammoth lakes, calif. 5.
children as young as age 6 are invited to participate in the "little scoop" race category.
"killington  resort is thrilled host to a three-day music festival in partnership with the  s.n.o.w. series that will feature live performances from top-notch  musicians," stated matt porter, events and partnerships manager for  killington resort.
based on two adults, per night, two-night stay for a standard room, up to four children for free.
pecha kucha, held in the comfy confines of maxx fish nightclub, is the most explosive, up to the minute form of public speaking and entertainment.
-make a donation to the childhood cancer lifeline.
ski or ride a  saturday night 3pm to 10pm.
winter carnival day set for sunday, february 26, 2012 shawnee-on-delaware, pa - the base of shawnee mountain will come alive on sunday, february 26 with a festive carnival atmosphere and a fun day for skiers, snowboarders, snow tubers and spectators.
adult men 1 - chad denney from angel fire, nm.
pats peak nastar race course the nastar race course will be open everyday during the february president's vacation week from 11am to 3pm.
this new filmmaking competition gives the audience and the media a sneak peek  into what it's like to produce an original and award-worthy action sports film,  with the added pressure of time restrictions.
cash and prizes will be given to the fastest  competitors in all age-specific categories.
radio station will provide djs with outdoor music and giveaways all from the base of shawnee mountain.
"with two feet of snow in the past week, the conditions at steamboat are the best of the season, and the forecast shows even more snow is on the way."
this was hardly surprising as  the winner of the combined world cup had to limp out of the finish area and was  treated immediately in the medical tent.
currently 162 out of 165 trails covering 2,885 acres, or 97% of terrain, including the resort's legendary tree skiing area-shadows, closets, flying z, twilight, triangle 3 and pioneer ridge.
après-ski entertainment and beer promotions in the sled pub fri, february 17: friday night karaoke: 4pm-close with djdaveentertainment.com wine  & wing promo: bucket of toes & bucket of wings sat, february 18: ride & ski tour: 2-for-1 lift ticket w/r&s card, après-ski  party après-ski beer promotion: 3-7pm harpoon après-ski party - live band: 4-9pm the mcmurphy's sun, february 19: après-ski beer promotion: 2-6pm samuel adams après-ski party - live band: 3-8pm dusty gray fri, february 24: friday night
the top canadian was st. boniface, que.'s alex  bellemare in sixth at 88.00.
gus kenworthy, 206. 6.
the snow system brought echo mountain 11 inches of powder, buttermilk nine inches and ski cooper eight inches.
competitors sit on the scoop of a standard aluminum snow shovel, handle pointed downhill, and then lift their hands and feet to allow gravity to take them for a ride.
brita sigourney, carmel, calif., 54.50.
"we at crotched pride our self on the commitment of service to all skiing and snowboarding guests from beginners all the way to expert terrain park and racing enthusiasts.
eric willett (usa) earned the second highest score of the night with a switch backside 1260 double cork mute grab, worth 94.0 points, but failed to make the superfinal after encountering peetu piiroinen in the second round.
the first of the series, held on sunday, january 29, featured merryvale winery from napa valley, california.
prizes will be handed out informally and competitors will be judged on overall impression.
the resort is reporting a 51-inch base at mid-mountain and 60-inch base at the summit on powder conditions.
utah olympic park aerial noram park city, utah (february 8, 2012) -
top speeds regularly exceed 60 miles per hour.
zachary black, breckenridge, colo., 86.00.
" the organized competition has been held for over 30 years at angel fire resort, and racers are expected from all corners of the country.
neither was able to get past david wise tonight,  after he landed a solid first run, scoring a 94.50 that could not be topped by  anyone's second attempt through the pipe.
maddie bowman, south lake tahoe, calif., 80.00. 4.
snow seventeen couples renew their vows and two couples tie the knot during the  inaugural cloud nine nuptials at mount snow on valentine's day west  dover, vt (february 14, 2012) -
"the course was really good," said partridge, only fifteen  years-old.
awsm has been a project of mine for a while and to have this platform on youtube to showcase it is amazing," said richards.
i am proud that our family continues this way of life.
i'm so happy with everyone skiing and myself."
-take a chance on a raffle.
"it's fun to be out here enjoying  the sport.
the speed specialists certainly have bigger advantages here.
the best of show winner will take home a $10,000 cheque and $5,000 in prizes.
the festive occasion began at 10:00am with a procession up the sunbrook quad, complete with pachabel's cannon in d providing the background music, followed by each couple taking their place around a giant heart painted in the snow at the top of the mountain and a spirited ceremony conducted by a local justice of the peace.
thanks to the season long hard work of the snowmaking team, pats peak, southern new hampshire's favorite mountain, will continue to have 100% of their slopes and trails open for the winter school vacation weeks.
double gold for naude lemieux takes bronze in noram dual moguls pentiction, british columbia (february 14, 2012) -
saturday & sunday: -this is a great opportunity to enjoy skiing and support nh families who have children with cancer.
freestyle action continues this week with back-to-back mogul noram competitions at apex mountain resort tomorrow and tuesday; an fis world cup aerials event in kreischberg, austria on february 17 and a world cup mogul competition in naeba, japan on february 18.
the women's snowboard division was stacked with riders like lynn neil, mariah dugan, nirvana ortanez, jamie madrid and melissa evans competing.
"there were a lot of great moments  today; from the couple that renewed their vows for their 44th wedding  anniversary to the two couples that officially got married at the top of the  mountain.
sculpted ice works of lakeville, pa will present an ice sculpture contest  during the festival.
following the awards ceremony on friday night at the sitzmark, pato banton will take the stage at 10:00 p.m for a reggae themed party.
justin dorey, 166. 9.
tickets purchased the weekend of the event: $25 per person or $40 per couple.
there is also a three course sweetheart tasting menu  dinner being offered at harriman's restaurant in the grand summit resort hotel  from 6:00pm to 9:00pm tonight.
arielle gold, 107. 7.
followed by the men's snowboard division,  the contest came down to everyone's second runs as they proved their abilities  were made to flow to pro.
14.9 sec., 66.72 mph world  famous shovel race championships return to the slopes at angel fire resort new mexico wild winter competition set for february 11-12 angel fire,  n.m.--(business wire)--competitors of all ages are once again waxing their snow  shovels for the legendary angel fire shovel race championship happening  february 11 - 12, 2012.
alpine snowboarding, typically known as "carving" uses hard boots, much like ski boots, and snowboards that generally have most advanced technology in the ski and snowboarding industry.
and i work well with [my coaches] toben [sutherland] and jf [cusson].
memories were made today and we look forward to helping create more memories next year on valentine's day.
following the race, enjoy an après ski auction and awards party babe's lounge in the governors lodge.
he started his run with a switch double cork 1080, followed by a rightside 900, a leftside 900, an alley oop 540 tailgrab, and a double cork 1260.
alyeska big snow year, course change for 4th annual north face
the snow continues to fall as meadows snowpack reaches the century mark special $79 online deal for 2 midweek lift tickets this week at skihood.com mt.
"because of the wind i only  got a couple of training jumps in, but i was confident about them so i decided  to go for my hardest trick, [a quadruple twisting, triple backflip].
wrightwood, ca - february 7, 2012:
the top canadian was st. boniface, que.'s alex bellemare in sixth at 88.00.
with the powder piling up, you have to act just as fast!
under the lights on saturday nights! saturday night pop is only $43 and includes skiing, snowboarding, snowtubing, rental equipment, lesson tips and entertainment.
denver, colo. - february 15, 2012 - every colorado ski country usa (cscusa) resort received a good helping of fresh snow within the last seven days.
max szekely, red wood city, calif. 4.
logan dobson, canada women's snowboard superpipe 1.
the 2012 dew tour  wrapped up in snowbasin today and canadian kaya turski came away with a gold  medal, the dew cup and the award for athlete of the year, which she shared with  american devin logan.
snowmont music festival was created from the producers of the  snowball music festival (avon, co) and snowglobe music festival (south lake  tahoe, ca), snowmont will feature a one-of-a-kind music festival experience  with national acts that have averaged 10,000 festival goers per day at previous  events.
carving is thrilling and for many in the sport, addictive.
she added, "i was excited to compete at home in front of my friends and family."
as chuck wagner says, "growing grapes and winemaking takes a  tenacious will and endless spirit to be successful.
the event has even been featured by national news outlets including espn, abc sports, mtv and the travel channel.
the majority of activities will take place from 11am to 2pm in the base  area, slope side.
snow  my jumps are getting better and better the more i train.
registration ($10 for am, $20 for pro) is 10-12pm; practice, 12-1pm; am qualifying jam, 1-2pm; pro qualifying jam, 2-3pm; finals, 3-4pm.
but in the end, naude's turns and air scores gave her the edge.
the 2012 north face vertical challenge route takes a fresh approach with a  new big-mountain course.
" with a weekly schedule that includes content from the leading athletes, industry movers and shakers, and premier events in action sports, the alli sports youtube channel is an all-encompassing one-stop site to get your fill on all that is action sports.
nirvana ortanez, la jolla, calif. 3.
olympus also steps up as the sponsor for the ever-popular 72hr filmmaker  showdown, the short filmmaking competition that defies logic and breaks levels  the playing field.
more information is available at nedisabledsports.org.
labbé-giguère was happy with his performance over the three events, where he finished seventh, tenth and seventh.
a childhood cancer awareness pin.
the weekend events will include  race clinics, snow shovel sculpture contests, family activities and live music.
park education and etiquette pass (peeps) holders will receive $5 off tickets for fluorescent nights.
post-production trickery, exotic locations, superstar talent  and big budget advantages are made irrelevant when filmmakers are tasked to  shoot, edit and produce a 3-5 minute short film within 100km radius of whistler  over the course of 72 hours.
today's race, however, also had a negative consequence for the best skier in the world at the current time: kostelic may have injured a knee joint.
the slopestyle course in snowbasin was fairly  technical, with three rail features and two jumps.
"it's fun to be out here enjoying the sport.
naude, who comes from penticton b.c. and skis with the bc freestyle team earned a score of 23.38 and the fastest time in the women's division.
once again it would be a russian at the top of the podium as stepan stomped  a number of technical tricks on each jib option!
guangpu qi of china used his airtime well and placed first with a considerable score of 131.67; his countryman zongyang zia took the silver at 127.66 and rochon was third with a score of 123.45.
ollywood hangs on to yellow bib with third place finish beida lake, china (february 11, 2012) - canada's olivier  rochon battled freezing temperatures and high winds en route to a bronze medal  in the fis freestyle aerial event here today.
cold wars rail jam -
kelly clark, west dover, vt., 95.00. 2.
" mount snow also  offered two lift tickets for $49 available for advance purchase online prior to  monday, february 13.
" rochon said he is confident in  challenging weather conditions because he has good skiing skills, which help  him land consistently.
at alpine meadows, feb. 18, skiers and riders will kick off their boots and get down at the apres ski party featuring headphone union.
"mother nature has finally come through at a perfect time, as we head into the president's holiday.
" "shovel racing began as a simple contest here in the 1970's when our lift operators would ride their shovels down the mountain at the end of their shifts," explains dave dekema, director of marketing, angel fire resort.
"what better way to toast this holiday than by playing in the  champagne powder snow with loved ones," said chris diamond, president  & chief operating officer for steamboat ski & resort corporation.
scout weekend - saturday & sunday, march 3 & 4 this is a special scout weekend where scouts come to pats peak to enjoy  skiing, riding and/or snowtubing.
in the small final canadian national team rookie simon lemieux battled his one-time idol american nathan roberts and the repentigny, que.
tickets may be purchased at pats peak guest services, (603) 428-3245, throughout the event weekend in the main lodge or at the door.
"this feels really great especially because i didn't win at the last dew tour stop," said rolland, after being awarded the cup.
not valid feb. 17-20, 2012.
"following the success of the inaugural cloud nine nuptials we have already decided to make this an annual event," said gebo.
a new world record was set at 73.64 mph by chad denney from angel fire, new mexico.
this unique event has no divisions, no pressure, and is open to all ages.
turski, who won the x games two weeks ago and was also crowned x games female athlete of the year, has had a perfect season so far, winning every slopestyle event she's entered.
pecha kucha: monday april 16th, the $10 ticket includes one drink ticket and a seat at the most stimulating event of the year!alyeska big snow year, course change for 4th annual north face vertical challenge competition at alyeska resort february 1, 2012 ( girdwood , alaska ) -
"i'm so excited," exclaimed logan following her win.
mike riddle, canada, 83.75. 8.
with massive crowds  cheering them on, the contestants at the gatorade free flow tour finals took to  the professional winter dew tour courses in prospect of being crowned the 2012  champion.
" montreal's jean-christophe andré was the only other canadian in today's competition.
sunday saw down-to-the-wire  superpipe contests as the snow began to fall on utah.
today's race, however, also had a negative consequence for the best skier in  the world at the current time: kostelic may have injured a knee joint.
sarah conrad, 107. 6.
already holding the lead, she dropped into the pipe, starting her run with a japan grab to a 540 tail grab, followed by a flare, mute grab, alley-oop critical grab, 720 mute, ending with a switch alley-oop 540.
the grooming crew spends each night grooming out the slopes to provide the best snow conditions daily.
"we had excellent training and i really expected  better finishes today," he said.
$10 monday evening 3 - 9 pm online special
i got a little excited on my takeoff today so i leaned back too much.
"i feel like all my hard work's been paying off -- in  the gym and the summer and with my coaches and sponsor.
resorts are welcoming guests during president's day weekend and spring break with events and deals.
armeen pirooz, harrisonburg, va. freeski superpipe 1.
held at the sapphire valley ski area.
rate does not include taxes.
the north face challenge is limited to the first 50 registrants and competitor spots sell out annually.
shovel racing was also once a featured sport during the  early years of the winter x games.
it's the kind of course  turski loves.
as an added bonus, receive a $100 american express gift card for every airline ticket purchased into steamboat/hayden airport as part of the champagne powder package through steamboat central reservations.
" montreal's  jean-christophe andré was the only other canadian in today's  competition.
the shawnee mountain junior development team will perform a skiing and snowboarding skills demonstration on the thundercloud trail and greenhouse slope in full view of the base area spectators.
" canadian team coach adrian taggart  was disappointed with the showing of the national team athletes.
national team member p-o gagne of montreal was 17th; david cooksley was 27th;  national team member hugo blanchette of quebec city was 28th; luke ulsifer was  29th; troy minogue was 30th; zach hoffman was 31st;
"there's just something about this place that sparks romance", said communications manager, david meeker, who met his wife while working at mount snow back in 2004.
the first round of musicians include snoop  dogg, chromeo, lotus, slightly stoopid, datsik, gramatik, easy star all stars,  kaskade and ott.
congratulations came immediately from 3 time ttr tour winner peetu, who won tonight with a clean and stylish backside 1260 mute grab.
killington resort announces initial lineup of 2012 snowmont music  festival, march 30-april 1 the largest winter music festival in the  east will feature snoop dogg and chromeo killington, vt. (february 9,  2012) - vermont's killington resort is set to host snowmont music festival, a  three-day music festival march 30-april 1, 2012 in conjunction with  nor'beaster, the biggest kickoff party to the spring, and will feature  world-class musicians including snoop dogg, chromeo and dj shadow along with  the best spring skiing and riding in the east.
beginning in november of 1971, charlie and chuck along with one other worker pruned their 55 acres of grapes.
that's over 80,000 vertical feet in a day.
next was alex beaulieu-marchand of quebec city in  10th at 70.00.
henniker, nh, february 14, 2012 -- thanks  to the season long hard work of the snowmaking team, pats peak, southern new  hampshire's favorite mountain, will continue to have 100% of their slopes and  trails open for the winter school vacation weeks.
reservations for the dinner can be made by calling 907-754-2237 or  online.
anna segal of australia was second at 90.75 and logan took the bronze  medal at 89.00.
" canada's only other noram-level aerialist, quebec team's dave blais, sat out today's event with concussion symptoms.
there is also a three course sweetheart tasting menu dinner being  offered at harriman's restaurant in the grand summit resort hotel from 6:00pm  to 9:00pm.
the men's freeski  superpipe final at the toyota championship saw one of the closest dew cup races  in winter dew tour history culminate today in snowbasin.
charlie died in  his 90th year of his hard working yet illustrious career.
the wagner wine dinner will start at 7:00 p.m. seatings for the dinner are $165 per person.
maddy schaffrick, 76.
tomorrow i'm just going to go our and have fun, skiing is what i like to do best," said naude, who added that the course today was "pretty easy - quite flat and not too technical.
the slalom expert acted as if nothing had happened during the run with his textbook turns on what was a very difficult piste.
he made it down the course in 13.5 seconds • kids as young as 6 can compete •
" "shovel racing began as a simple contest here in the  1970's when our lift operators would ride their shovels down the mountain at  the end of their shifts," explains dave dekema, director of marketing,  angel fire resort.
an icy slope, a technically  demanding run and interesting terrain do of course favour slalom experts such  as kostelic, but: "the downhill is also extremely fast, with lots of bumps  and it really takes it out of you.
naude, who comes from penticton b.c. and skis with the bc freestyle team earned  a score of 23.38 and the fastest time in the women's division.
alex-anne gagnon of the  quebec team was 21st; katrine bazinet was 25th; clare lambert of alberta was 32 nd; kate targett was 35th; on the men's side, lalonde, who hails from  chateauguay, que.
another storm  system moves into the area on sunday with additional snowfall predicted.
wine dinners in the winter ski season seemingly make for the perfect pairing.
so all in all the chances were balanced," says kostelic,  who once again showed that he is capable of seizing an opportunity.
broby leeds, vail, colo. 2.
there is also a three course sweetheart tasting menu dinner being offered at harriman's restaurant in the grand summit resort hotel from 6:00pm to 9:00pm tonight.
help us to chase the blues away for nh families whose children have cancer.
the canadian halfpipe and slopestyle teams compete in the dew tour finals in ogden, ut tomorrow and sunday.
red bull butter cup - the pro and am contest series, landing at stratton on saturday, february 25, showcases creativity in technical flatland trickery.
teams are challenged to produce a 5-7 minute action sports film incorporating both skiing and snowboarding, shot over 7 consecutive days, starting tuesday april 10th, all within 100km of whistler.
this path results in 2,000 vertical feet of off-piste terrain with a final exit near the groomed trails of the refinery terrain park where with the aerial tram in sight, competitors will get a chance to regroup before charging another lap.
guests must be age 21 or older to participate in this event.
torin yater-wallace, 291. 3.
tucker perkins, 244. 5.
following the awards ceremony on friday night at the sitzmark, pato banton  will take the stage at 10:00 p.m for a reggae themed party.
spencer shaw, stratton, vt., 90.00. 4.
the resort is celebrating valentine's week with a 2-for-1 online lift ticket offer - purchase 2 midweek lift tickets for just $79.
once again the alpine carving community converges on aspen colorado.
the wagner  wine family includes world-acclaimed caymus, conundrum, mer soleil, and belle  glos.
sugar bowl stratton couldn't be poised with more pleasant conditions as it prepares to dip into nine days of presidents' week events, bookended by two can't miss rail jams.
friday afternoon, the freeskiers cleared the professionals from the slope course at snowbasin as they went head to head and run for run for first place.
" with their wins at the gatorade free flow tour finals, partridge, voigte  callister, berger and leeds will make their professional contest debut at the  2012-13 winter dew tour, where they will compete against the biggest names in  their sport.
an icy slope, a technically demanding run and interesting terrain do of course favour slalom experts such as kostelic, but: "the downhill is also extremely fast, with lots of bumps and it really takes it out of you.
and i did two good jumps against roberts.
relying purely on originality, craft, speed and endurance, the olympus 72 hour filmmaker showdown distills the art of film-making into its purest form - taking creative vision from concept to reality in record time in order for it to be enjoyed on the big screen by an 1800-strong audience.
devoted to providing a behind-the-curtain look  into the athletes, sports and events that shape the action sports industry,  alli sports' youtube channel will give viewers more amazing content to  compliment the offerings on allisports.com and nbc broadcasts.
the weekend events will include race clinics, snow shovel sculpture contests, family activities and live music.
in 22nd; and, alexi godbout of mont tremblant, que.
"i'm stoked itw as on the dew tour course.
featuring an identical rail setup throughout the tour, the  local beidahu riders were out in force to impress the judges on their home  turf.
kyle mack, w. bloomfield, mich., 73.75.
same as previous years, the entry gate at the top of the venue will be positioned just uphill of the upper tram terminal portal.
the tahoe junior freeride series makes its first stop at  sugar bowl resort this weekend, february 11-12th.
for the month of february, the featured vineyards and wineries includes a meritage of wines from the wagner family of napa valley, california.
in 2012, 6 to 8 teams, each receiving an immediate  $1,000, will be invited to face the all-powerful voleurz team, victorious  winners of this groundbreaking new event.
the top  national team athlete, simon lemieux of repentigny fell on his finals run and  landed in 15th position.
once again it would be a russian at the top of the podium as stepan stomped a number of technical tricks on each jib option!
red oak's general manager, tony  stoughton, will be in aspen buttermilk, friday, february 10, 2012 for q&a.
americans swept the podium today.
same as previous years, the entry gate at the top of  the venue will be positioned just uphill of the upper tram terminal portal.
peetu is back after wrestling with injury, but is again landing all his tricks with his exceptional ease.
and i work well with [my coaches] toben [sutherland] and jf  [cusson].
snowtubing park the snowtubing park is open daily during both february school vacation weeks.
it's exciting to have it all pay off.
"and," he added, "my first coach, [nicolas fontaine], "made us jump in every kind of weather, so i'm ready for anything."
friday throuh sunday, february 10-12, 2012 snowbasin, utah freeski slopestyle 1.
the top national team athlete, simon lemieux of repentigny fell on his finals run and landed in 15th position.
since january 1st, steamboat has seen 5.4 feet of snow pile up at mid-mountain and 6 feet at the summit.
in tribute to the masters of their field, we invite  action sports and lifestyle photographers from around the world to submit their  work for an opportunity to earn a trip to whistler bc, during the 2012 telus  world ski & snowboard festival to showcase their work for an audience of  sports enthusiasts, media and industry professionals….and to win the  $10,000 cash prize for best in show.
steamboat central reservations, which represents the majority of the  lodging properties in the area, offers a variety of winter vacation packages  and air specials as well as its exclusive online icoris technology, allowing  guests to book their entire vacation online.
selected lots are blended to make wines chuck wagner believes best express the vineyards and vintage.
upcoming shows include the doctor doom orchestra on saturday, february 11, mcalister drive on february 18 and the crowd pleasing bad rabbits return on february 25.
shawnee mountain winter carnival day set for sunday, february 26, 2012 shawnee-on-delaware, pa - the base of shawnee mountain will come alive on  sunday, february 26 with a festive carnival atmosphere and a fun day for  skiers, snowboarders, snow tubers and spectators.
heading into the holiday weekend meadows will run its park&ride shuttle buses saturday, sunday and monday (president's day.)
pato banton is  scheduled to play thursday to saturday night, february 23-25, 2012.
the inaugural cloud nine nuptials at mount snow  resort in southern vermont had 17 couples renew their vows and two couples  tie-the-knot for the first time at the peak of the mountain this morning to  celebrate valentine's day.
the wagner wine family includes world-acclaimed caymus, conundrum, mer soleil, and belle glos.
the conditions were hard, but this was my mistake and i'm looking forward to making up for it later in the month," said andré.
winter school vacation week  line-up at pats peak skiing, snowboarding, snowtubing, après-ski parties, live bands and  more.
" saturday the snowboarders took to the rails and immaculate jumps, where  voigte and callister proved they were ready to make the step up from amateur  status.
mike  riddle, canada, 83.75. 8.
there were no  canadian women in today's event.
" saturday the snowboarders took to the rails and immaculate jumps, where voigte and callister proved they were ready to make the step up from amateur status.
currently 162 out of 165 trails covering 2,885  acres, or 97% of terrain, including the resort's legendary tree skiing  area-shadows, closets, flying z, twilight, triangle 3 and pioneer ridge.
gretchen bleiler, aspen, colo.,  94.25.
this event is a fund raiser to sponsor ski scholarships so children may attend our after school ski programs, children who otherwise may not have the opportunity to ski or to learn this life skill.
at this point, they will enter the north star gate and continue through steep gladed terrain in the northwest passage area which the resort developed two winters ago.
but we won't be able to say  anything of course until i've had it checked out in hospital," said  kostelic, forced to swallow a bitter pill despite the day being so successful.
call toll-free (800) 922-2722 or visit steamboat.com while the new snow is welcome by everyone, the resort reminds skiers and riders to be aware of changing mountain conditions.
with this initial effort began a bonded relationship, which would endure until charlie's death in 2002.
13.5 sec., 73.64 mph (new record) 2 - john strader from albuquerque, nm.
men's freeski superpipe final results 1.david wise, reno, nev., 94.50.
we've got the beads; now bring your friends to enjoy a day into night of music, drinks and just enough naughtiness to keep you on santa's nice list next year.
"with fantastic conditions this winter and a strong repeat class of  competitors, it was time to raise the bar and update the course," said  brian burnett, mountain services manager and race founder.
the family  tradition continues with charlie making exquisite chardonnay at mer soleil in  the santa lucia highlands of monterey county and joseph making fine pinot noir  under the belle glos label in the coastal areas of california.
the north face challenge is limited to the first  50 registrants and competitor spots sell out annually.
on the men's side, four canadians advanced to  finals, but none reached the podium.
competing on the largest pipe in the world was no problem for the 18-year-old -  "i added a couple hits, didn't have to add in anything new but worked on  performing them better."
the women went first, where berger made her first trip to the finals worthwhile.
caymus vineyards was established when a mother and father and their son embarked on a family winery in 1972.
in its fourth year, alyeska  resort's north face vertical challenge will feature a new course this winter.
alli  sports has made its name in the events and media world as the organization  behind the summer and winter dew tour, gatorade free flow tour, lucas oil pro  motocross championship, and the recently announced partnership with red bull to  create the red bull signature series.
"it has since grown into a wacky, full-bore competition with speed suits, radar guns, costumes and family racing legacies.
on the women's side, china swept the podium with xin zhang in top spot at 101.16; mengtao xu second at 95.70 and shuang cheng third with a score of 89.30.
in 22nd; and, alexi  godbout of mont tremblant, que.
the gatorade free flow tour was one of the main things i was focusing on this year, so i'm stoked."
there is also a three course sweetheart tasting menu dinner being offered at harriman's restaurant in the grand summit resort hotel from 6:00pm to 9:00pm.
" charlie has passed his passion and knowledge onto his three children, charlie (the second), joseph and new winemaking apprentice jenny.
"so there was a little bit of trouble in my mind.
and exactly a foot of snow piled up at aspen, aspen highlands, powderhorn and solvista basin at granby ranch.
join for all or part of the event  and know that you are helping to support nh families whose children have been  diagnosed with cancer.
sarka pancochova, 87.
hood, or (immediate release) - mt. hood meadows received some valentine's day love in the form of new snow - so far 4 inches have accumulated in this storm, increasing the base area snowpack to 100 inches.
on saturday afternoons, guests can arrive early, get their rental equipment  early and start skiing/riding early with step up to "pop" tickets: ticket valid: 12pm to 10pm - $73 ticket valid: 1pm to 10pm - $63 ticket valid: 2pm to 10pm - $53 ticket valid: 3pm to 10pm - $43 the pop ticket is the only lift ticket available on saturday nights.
the  canadian halfpipe and slopestyle teams compete in the dew tour finals in ogden,  ut tomorrow and sunday.
saturday night entertainment continues in the bunyan room through march 24.
priced at $98 ($49 per day), the tahoe super 2 provides two days of skiing and riding with absolutely no date restrictions and is valid for any two days in the 2011/2012 season (the two days do not need to be consecutive).
headlining the new youtube content offering are three
" beidahu snow jam  wrap-up this saturday saw the nike snow jam series head to beidahu for the second  stop of the tour.
3pm: raffles, silent and live auction 5-5:30pm:
the montreal-native had today's event sewn up on the first run where she scored a 93.75.
karaoke: 4pm-close with djdaveentertainment.com wine & wing promo: bucket of toes & bucket of wings sat, february 25: après-ski beer cancer lifeline promo: 3-7pm smuttynose/lifeline  raffle après-ski party - live band: 4-9pm october sons sun, february 26: après-ski beer cancer lifeline promo: 3-7pm smuttynose/lifeline  raffle après-ski party - live band: 12-5pm october sons host several  lifeline benefit rock bands in "we will, we will rock cancer".
for five generations, the wagner family has lived in napa valley originally  settling in the area in the 1800s.
men's snowboard superpipe final results 1.
dean bercovitch was 34th;  heath berkovitch was 35th, connor spence was 37th; julien dufresne was 47th;
the us swept the top spots with nick goepper in first at 95.00, tom wallisch in second at 92.25 and bobby brown third at 91.00.
having clinched victory three times in four races the croatian has now made things clear in this particular world cup ranking.
"i'm a bit disappointed.
guests can purchase a 2 or a 4-hour  tubing session.
each rider gets two shots to clock the fastest time down the  front of the angel fire ski mountain.
charlie died in his 90th year of his hard working yet illustrious career.
ulsifer also made finals today, finishing in 15th.
despite going into a clear lead he appeared to be disturbed by something.
tickets for the shows are $10 in advanced and $15 day of show, and can be purchased online, at any alyeska ticket office and over the phone at 907-754-2275.
the  youngest skier of the day was spot on with his 270 on the down-rail, frontside  switch-up to backside 270 on the up-down rail, and 270 off the cannon rail,  followed by a clean right 900 and big switch 1080.
jessika  jenson, rigby, idaho 4.
as the snow finally started to fall on the slopes of snowbasin, the snowboarders and freeskiers took their best tricks to the pipe.
mason aguirre, 181. 6.
the bronze medal means rochon, who has been on  the podium four times already this season, keeps a grip on the yellow leader's  bib by a margin of 50 points over jia.
tubing hours are from 5pm to 10pm.
with the powder piling up, you have to  act just as fast!
neither was able to get past david wise tonight, after he landed a solid first run, scoring a 94.50 that could not be topped by anyone's second attempt through the pipe.
seven glaciers prepares a wine dinner feast as special guest  charlie wagner of mer soleil winery makes appearance at upcoming wine dinner on  february 26, 2012 february 1, 2012 (girdwood, alaska) -
naude, who is with the bc freestyle academy program and calls apex her home mountain, said, "i probably had a bit of an advantage because i know this course so well."
jack mitrani, mammoth lakes, calif., 81.50. 8.
the installation of the lift, along with a terrain expansion is planned at crotched mountain, nh for the 2012-2013 season.
simon dumont, bethel, maine, 91.75.
alex-anne gagnon of the quebec team was 21st; katrine bazinet was 25th; clare lambert of alberta was 32 nd; kate targett was 35th; on the men's side, lalonde, who hails from chateauguay, que.
as an added  bonus, receive a $100 american express gift card for every airline ticket  purchased into steamboat/hayden airport as part of the champagne powder package  through steamboat central reservations.
logan was able to land seven tricks due to the superpipe 615-foot length, the longest ever built for a contest.
the jam session format keeps the action flowing while riders compete for cash and fresh gear.
" the only other canadian in the field was quebec team member david blais, who was 9th at 137.00
alpine snowboarders from around the world at making turns at one of the three resort during this week.
with temperatures that have risen since last weekend's cold spell, groomers have been able to canvas the hill in a most pristine corduroy.
brandon davis, mammoth lakes, calif. 4.
men's freeski superpipe - tour rankings 1.
skiers and riders can ski/ride day and night enjoying trails for all abilities and three terrain parks.
the ttr standard is what competitive snowboarders use to rank themselves against each other, and earn entry into events like the grand prix and the olympics.
"i had some troubles skiing out of my top air [a  360] today, but i managed to get back into my line so i'm happy with my  performance.
in the women's field americans kyley mckinnon and madison olsen took the gold and silver at 132.16 and 126.29, respectively.
after receiving 12" of new snow on tuesday night and early wednesday morning, heavenly mountain resort will open milky way bowl for the first time this season, giving the resort additional expert and off-piste terrain.
rosalind groenewoud, canada, 82.50.
in tribute to the masters of their field, we invite action sports and lifestyle photographers from around the world to submit their work for an opportunity to earn a trip to whistler bc, during the 2012 telus world ski & snowboard festival to showcase their work for an audience of sports enthusiasts, media and industry professionals .and to win the $10,000 cash prize for best in show.
shawnee mountain is located in the pocono mountains of pennsylvania just off exit 309 of interstate 80.
"i'm super excited to be part of the alli sports youtube channel.
the new terrain will have 100 percent fan snowmaking coverage as well as being lit for night skiing.
tickets may be purchased at pats peak guest services, (603) 428-3245,  throughout the event weekend in the main lodge or at the door.
competitors sit on the scoop of a standard aluminum snow shovel, handle  pointed downhill, and then lift their hands and feet to allow gravity to take  them for a ride.
more will be announced wednesday, february 15, 2012.
in addition, all four runners up will  receive $1,500 cash as an appearance fee.
just about  every idea to blow it out of proportion in the name of good winter fun has been  exploited.
please call for scheduling: (303) 921-6809 tahoe junior freeride series makes season debut at sugar bowl
when the  chinese guys who jumped after me saw that i landed well, they decided to do  harder tricks too … i don't mind, i'm happy for them, but i am glad that i  blocked a chinese sweep.
the resort is reporting a 51-inch base at mid-mountain and 60-inch base at  the summit on powder conditions.
the snowmaking team has been out on the mountain this week to add a top  layer of powder to the trails.
15.03 sec., 66.14 mph 3 - nancy eberhart from glen mills, pa.
ben watts, bend, ore., 67.00.
all sitzmark shows are 21 and over.
the women's snowboard division was stacked with riders like lynn neil,  mariah dugan, nirvana ortanez, jamie madrid and melissa evans competing.
max  jenson, rye, n.h. encompassing the "flow to pro" theme that is the cornerstone of  the gatorade free flow tour, the two overall snowboard superpipe and slopestyle  champions and the overall freeski superpipe and slopestyle champions earnedd a  spot to compete against the pros at the first stop of the 2012-13 winter dew  tour next season.
pecha kucha, held in the comfy confines of maxx fish nightclub, is the most  explosive, up to the minute form of public speaking and entertainment.
said berger of her success, "it's really  exciting!
commented seppe smits.
nevin  brown was first at 207.47; jonathon lillis was second at 193.63 and the bronze  medal went to alex bowen at 186.36.
tonight's performances had a major influence on the ttr overall tour ranking, with seb toutant now leading the pack, and stale sandbech (nor), roope tonteri (fin), seppe smits and eric willett all move up, rounding up the top 5.
slope in full view of the base area spectators.
maddy schaffrick,  76.
the inaugural cloud nine  nuptials at mount snow resort in southern vermont has more than 20 couples  signed up, three of which will tie-the-knot for the first time with the others  renewing their marriage vows at the top of the mountain on valentine's day,  including last year's mount snow wedding giveaway winners dave rothman and tyne  pike-sprenger who are coming back to the resort to celebrate their one year  anniversary.
the master men was won by jeff hambin from  austin, tx at 13.56 seconds - with a speed of 73.31 mph.
troy tully was first at 24.87, nathan roberts was second at 24.7 and nicholas keating was third at 22.06.
as the snow finally started to fall on the slopes of snowbasin, the  snowboarders and freeskiers took their best tricks to the pipe.
"there's just something about this place that sparks  romance", said communications manager, david meeker, who met his wife  while working at mount snow back in 2004.
trevor jacob, malibu, calif., 88.00. 5.
i'm just in amazement right now.
leeds, a three-time finalist,  earned the victory with his nine hundred to alley-oop nine hundred, 720 tail to  switch alley-oop 720, 540, right 540, and finished with a boosty 1080.
on this day, it was katie williams out of salt lake city, utah who stole the show and the $2000 top prize with her smooth run that included a clean front 5 on the money booter.
competing on the dew tour is something i've been wanting to do for a while, and i'm really stoked that i get to do it now.
peetu piiroinen took home the ring of glory and another 1000 points for the world tour rankings.
teams competed on skis and snowboards in a shotgun-style golf tournament with proceeds going to support the court appointed special advocates program in new hampshire.
the challenge is fairly simple.
carving is thrilling and for many in the  sport, addictive.