the single most important factor that makes people want to choose a specific property is of course the view – a sweeping view of the mountains in winter park is priceless.
perched on the doorstep of jasper national park, the small town of valemount is true northern bc – far enough away from mega-resort frill to be authentic but still close to the action.
play around with your camera  settings before you come to ensure your familiarity with the controls.
on average they record only 1.5 down days (non skiing days) per season.
maximum group size is eight, and only two groups per machine.
posted in heli skiing, skiing, skiing vacations | tagged backcountry skiing, heli skiing canada, heli skiing powder, heliskiing, holidays, ski vacations, skiing, skiing vacation, snowboarding, travel | leave a comment here’s four easy ways to help you make it the best memory it can be.
pullout beds are very helpful, and as mentioned above, can help save a lot on rental costs.
we can choose the best skiing and best  flying for each and every day.
you can arrange for colorado ski vacation rentals easily and quickly, using your internet connection.
“we want to avoid the ‘factory skiing’ mentality, so our guests can enjoy the experience without pressure.”
lift-skiing is just an hour away at marmot basin ski area in jasper,  which also offers world-class dining, shopping and luxury experiences.
posted in uncategorized | leave a comment eagle pass heli skiing seems to have it all, deep powder, pristine mountains – and oh did i say deep powder? check out this video for some pre winter stoke!
amenities should include everything that people use at home, plus things a ski resort needs such as space for skis, bikes, etc.
an intimate backcountry lodge setting with  gourmet dining, outdoor hot tubs, massage facilities and high speed wireless  internet throughout.
12 to 18 metres of snow falls annually (40 to 60 feet), and only 15 percent of their total terrain is actually skied.
it’s not absolutely necessary but your legs and lungs will be love you a  whole lot more if you do.
as a result, most of their guests come back year after year.
in addition to offering over 2,300 square miles (1.8m acres) of vast  and varied ski terrain via helicopter, they have just announced the opening of  a new catskiing area featuring 7,000 additional acres of skiable terrain  covering over 2,500 vertical feet of rise.
in addition to offering over 2,300 square miles (1.8m acres) of vast and varied ski terrain via helicopter, they have just announced the opening of a new catskiing area featuring 7,000 additional acres of skiable terrain covering over 2,500 vertical feet of rise.
mica has been around since 2003 and has 4,700 square kilometres of terrain to keep their guests smiling for weeks.
it may sound a little overzealous, but every year, they’ve  worked to perfect the heli-skiing experience.
this means  virtually no waiting for multiple groups.
so bring your friends with you and take advantage of the ride!
two guides per group, for a high level of service – a 5 guests to 1 guide ratio.
intermediate groups  can improve powder technique in a fun, relaxed setting, while advanced groups  can rock the hero lines.
perched on the doorstep of jasper  national park, the small town of valemount is true northern bc – far  enough away from mega-resort frill to be authentic but still close to the  action.
now they want to get the word out about how incredible crescent spur heli skiing is.
now they want to get the word out about how  incredible crescent spur heli skiing is.
pullout beds are very helpful, and as mentioned above, can help save a lot on  rental costs.
some make it a lot better by paying attention to detail, and  offering guests everything from discount lift tickets to free laundry, use of  free video games and parking garages.
the downtown area is at a breathtaking altitude of 9,100 ft while the highest incorporated point stretches into the clouds at 12,060 ft. getting down to the vacation rentals, visitors have a truckload of choices, starting from ski-in/ski-out town homes and condos scattered all over the resort.
some other note worth stats about mica: check out this mica heliskiing video for more proof.
the combination of services ensures guaranteed skiing or snowboarding  during every day of a client’s package.
- 3 days: $3655 - 7  days: $8438
posted on november 11, 2010 by  backcountryskiing mica heli guides has long been know as one of the best in the industry and  you only need to ask their guests what they think of the experience.
eagle pass heli skiing posted in uncategorized | leave a comment quality winter park colorado vacation rentals posted on november 2,  2010 by joe duffer it’s important to know a little bit more about winter park colorado  vacation rentals and the town itself, in order to find a good place to stay.
to do this they want you to become a ‘fan’ on facebook – do this and enter their competition and thats it – you may be the lucky winner.
not to mention a little comparison shopping for finding the  right one with all kinds of facilities and a lot of space.
last frontier’s heliskiing tenure boasts  some of the biggest mountains in north america and the untouched powder in  these ranges is truly endless.
options for double or single occupancy.
lift-skiing is just an hour away at marmot basin ski area in jasper, which also offers world-class dining, shopping and luxury experiences.
all this adds up to making a difference in an industry whos image has been one of a carbon-spewing mechanized backcountry vacation for the rich and famous.
snowwater also has an on-site  recycling facility and encourages staff members to car pool, and employs an  environmental purchasing policy.
try the fat skis or the big board – sometimes,  skiers and riders who are used to their old equipment are suspicious of using  anything else, especially on their big canadian heliskiing trip!
in the downtown area, sawmill station and telemark are  popular locations.
in the event of weather conditions clearing during the course of a day, northern escape’s fast and powerful koala helicopters will pick up skiers from the cat-skiing area and resume heliskiing for the rest of the day.
their interior location means that storms rarely are accompanied by fog,  allowing guests to continue skiing when others cannot fly, are lodge bound or  looking for alternate types of skiing.
most homes in winter park  have a fireplace and a full-service kitchen with everything from refrigerators  to microwaves and utensils.
we can choose the best skiing and best flying for each and every day.
bottom line - you’re skiing every day!
“while we love the phenomenal heli-ski conditions enjoy up here year after year, unfortunately all of that snow doesn’t come from blue skies,” says john forrest, general manager and president of northern escape heli-skiing.
no worries though—last frontier heliskiing  knows that heliskiing is more than helicopters and skiing—it’s  fresh pacific salmon, heaping nachos, bc wine and other hearty cuisine to keep  you happy.
tagged backcountry skiing, heli skiing canada, heli skiing powder,  heliskiing, holidays, ski vacations, skiing, skiing vacation, snowboarding,  travel | leave a comment how to prepare for your heli skiing trip posted on november 25, 2010  by backcountryskiing here’s four easy ways to help you make it the best memory it can be.
tagged heli skiing, heli skiing canada, heli skiing  powder, last frontier heli skiing, skiing | leave a comment mica heli guides – the proof!
all that deep off-piste skiing will work up your  appetite and make you thirsty.
chef steve ridley keeps guests happy with his incredible  culinary prowess.
we advise you  to put your fears aside and embrace fat skis if you haven’t already.
san francisco, ca, december 14, 2010 /24-7pressrelease/ — located in remote northwestern region of british columbia, northern escape heli-skiing has long been renowned for providing some of the deepest, most reliable snowpack in the world.
you can get the most out of your winter holiday by choosing winter park  colorado vacation rentals.
posted in  uncategorized | leave a comment eagle pass heliskiing video
the vast new catskiing terrain features both tree-skiing terrain as well as wide open bowls, and it encompasses an area nearly as large as the whistler and blackcomb ski areas combined.
you can get the most out of your winter holiday by choosing winter park colorado vacation rentals.
to do this they want you to become a  ‘fan’ on facebook – do this and enter their competition and  thats it – you may be the lucky winner.
two mountain ranges to choose from, with different weather  and snow conditions in each.
- 1500 square  kilometres of wide alpine bowls, steep faces and classic glades - average  up to seven metres annual snowfall - two guides per group with smaller  groups on widely varied terrain allows for greater choice.
from there, you’ll have a chance to win 6 days/7 nights at crescent spur, which includes skiing, accommodation (based on double occupancy), meals, and the use of specialized powder skis and poles.
finding such a matching property in a suitable location such as fraser
posted in heli skiing, skiing, skiing vacations | tagged backcountry skiing, cat skiing, heli skiing, heli skiing canada, heli skiing powder, heliskiing, holidays, skiing | leave a comment rhm provides a semi-private experience for less than the standard industry group rate.
there are many condos and townhomes here that are a short walk away from the lifts and the resort’s new village, and also on the free resort shuttle route.
“while we love the phenomenal heli-ski conditions enjoy up here year  after year, unfortunately all of that snow doesn’t come from blue  skies,” says john forrest, general manager and president of northern  escape heli-skiing.
posted on january 24, 2011 by backcountryskiing crescent spur started small, impressed a few people, and they brought their  friends.
that’s right, just visit the crescent spur facebook page, click  the like button, and enter yourself in the giveaway.
crescent spur is famous for it’s consistent dry fluffy snowfall.
mountain homes offer a cozy alpine experience similar to wealthy swiss chalets.
tagged heli skiing canada, heli skiing powder, heliskiing, skiing | leave a comment crescent spur has 1500 square miles of terrain in both of these mountain ranges, giving an unending choice for skiing and boarding, from glaciers, to alpine bowls to naturally gladed forests.
if you want all inclusive food & accommodation at cost – you can  have that too.
over the last 8 years they have  averaged only 1.5 down days a season, that’s less than 2% down time!
let’s assume, again, that the purpose of the trip is a ski vacation.
in the event of weather conditions clearing  during the course of a day, northern escape’s fast and powerful koala  helicopters will pick up skiers from the cat-skiing area and resume heliskiing  for the rest of the day.
pure powder bliss quality over volume.
consistently high quality powder from  early december through the end of april!
so all a small family on a  ski vacation has to do is find an affordable 1-bedroom condo with suitable  amenities in this or a similar location in the resort.
the town is, after all, primarily a ski resort.
a good one it is too, with a nice location and magnificent ski slopes a short drive away from denver, and shopping, dining, entertainment, etc.
all of these winter park colorado vacation rentals, and many more in and  around the town and resort, will almost surely offer a uniquely exciting ski  experience.
eagle pass heli skiingposted in uncategorized | leave a comment it’s important to know a little bit more about winter park colorado vacation rentals and the town itself, in order to find a good place to stay.
most homes in winter park have a fireplace and a full-service kitchen with everything from refrigerators to microwaves and utensils.
if your  camera is set to a 100 iso and it’s a classic sunny powder day, set your  shutter speed to 1/1000th and your aperature to f5.6.
posted  in heli skiing, skiing, skiing vacations | tagged heli skiing canada, heli  skiing powder, heliskiing, skiing | leave a comment cresent spur 2-2-2 policy posted on december 30, 2010 by  backcountryskiing crescent spur has 1500 square miles of terrain in both of these mountain  ranges, giving an unending choice for skiing and boarding, from glaciers, to  alpine bowls to naturally gladed forests.
a boutique company with a great history, crescent spur offers a very personal heli-skiing experience for a maximum of 20 guests per week.
a few  good tips include using the rule of thirds and exposing correctly.
two guides per group, for a high level of service –  a 5 guests to 1 guide ratio.
“we want to avoid the  ‘factory skiing’ mentality, so our guests can enjoy the experience  without pressure.”
with fewer skiers per helicopter,  the rhm experience is more personalized.
you can arrange for colorado ski vacation rentals  easily and quickly, using your internet connection.
“our philosophy is ‘smaller is better’,” says christine dolbec, manager at rhm.
crossing shouldn’t be all that hard.
and we want you to bring your closest friends along with you to share your experience.
all this adds up to making a difference in an  industry whos image has been one of a carbon-spewing mechanized backcountry  vacation for the rich and famous.
just $140 per person for breakfast, lunch, dinner, and some  delicious après ski.
this means knowing the layout and the hotspots popular among ski enthusiasts and other vacationers.
so all a small family on a ski vacation has to do is find an affordable 1-bedroom condo with suitable amenities in this or a similar location in the resort.
all of these winter park colorado vacation rentals, and many more in and around the town and resort, will almost surely offer a uniquely exciting ski experience.
so a 1-bedroom condo with pullout beds would be cheaper for a family of four, as compared to a 2-bedroom without pullouts.
a  bigger board means an easier turn, a smoother descent and more energy in the  long run.
group of 4 for $935 pp – january only
with fewer skiers per helicopter, the rhm experience is more personalized.
snowwater heli skiing snowwaters helicopters cannot run on any viable alternative fuel but they do run an astar with a more fuel-efficient aftermarket engine.
if so, choosing the right one basically depends on the budget, number of people  and length of stay.
posted in heli skiing, skiing, skiing vacations | 2 comments you are receiving this offer because you are someone who loves to ride champagne powder.
for optimal results, hit the gym 2-3 times a week for a month before  coming.
and we want you  to bring your closest friends along with you to share your experience.
mica has  been around since 2003 and has 4,700 square kilometres of terrain to keep their  guests smiling for weeks.
two mountain ranges to choose from, with different weather and snow conditions in each.
posted in heli skiing, skiing, skiing vacations | 2 comments eagle pass heli skiing deal – smile!
alternatively, if the weather deteriorates during the day while groups are helicopter skiing, the choppers will take them to the snowcats where there can continue skiing the catski terrain for the rest of the day.
the single most important factor that  makes people want to choose a specific property is of course the view – a  sweeping view of the mountains in winter park is priceless.
the operation is based on kinbasket lake, about two hours north of revelstoke.
complimentary cat skiing on the rare no fly day.
now even when the conditions are severe, we can  still offer world-class skiing and snowboarding in deep, fresh powder thanks to  our new catskiing operation.”
posted in heli skiing, skiing, skiing vacations | tagged backcountry skiing, heli skiing, heli skiing canada, heliskiing, holidays, ski vacations, skiing, skiing holiday, skiing vacation, skiing vacations, travel, vacations | leave a comment northern escape heli-skiing has announced the purchase of two snowcats and the opening of new 7,000 acre catskiing area offering runs over 2,500 vertical feet and encompassing some of the very most spectacular skiing terrain imaginable.
if so, choosing the right one basically depends on the budget, number of people and length of stay.
visitors can combine a ski vacation along with urban activities like shopping and dining in winter park.
this new area will be serviced by  two new snowcats recently put into operation by northern escape heli-skiing.
crescent spur started small, impressed a few people, and they brought their friends.
brush up on your camera skills – part of the allure  of heli skiing in canada is the magnificent views.
“with all that snow comes some inevitability difficult flying conditions.
outdoor hot tubs and heated pools are quite common too, and so is wifi internet, cable tv with a dvd player and movie collection.
snowwater heli skiing snowwaters helicopters cannot run on any viable alternative fuel but they  do run  an astar with a more fuel-efficient aftermarket engine.
not to mention a little comparison shopping for finding the right one with all kinds of facilities and a lot of space.
the shutter will freeze  any skiing action and help combat the natural vibrations of the helicopter  during out-the-window landscape shots.
so a 1-bedroom condo  with pullout beds would be cheaper for a family of four, as compared to a  2-bedroom without pullouts.
someone we like a lot.
incredible heliskiing runs are less than a two minute  flight from the lodge!
this means knowing the layout and the hotspots popular among ski enthusiasts  and other vacationers.
vacation rentals with all this and more are available at strategic  locations in the resort, from the new village lofts to founder’s pointe  and fraser crossing.
a good one it is too, with  a nice location and magnificent ski slopes a short drive away from denver, and  shopping, dining, entertainment, etc.
on average they record only 1.5  down days (non skiing days) per season.
it may sound a little overzealous, but every year, they’ve worked to perfect the heli-skiing experience.
tagged  backcountry skiing, bc, heli skiing, heli skiing canada, heli skiing powder,  heliskiing, holidays, skiing, snowboarding, vacations | leave a comment snowwater heli goes green
concentrate on cardio, squats, lunges and a good core workout.
let’s assume, for now, that the vacation rental is  for a ski vacation.
posted in skiing  vacations | tagged leisure, ski, skiing vacations, travel, vacation | leave a  comment ← older posts
this new area will be serviced by two new snowcats recently put into operation by northern escape heli-skiing.
stupid deep crescent spur guest experience is centered around it’s “2-2-2” policy: two groups of 10 only share one helicopter.
from there, you’ll  have a chance to win 6 days/7 nights at crescent spur, which includes skiing,  accommodation (based on double occupancy), meals, and the use of specialized  powder skis and poles.
“our philosophy is ‘smaller is better’,”  says christine dolbec, manager at rhm.
- 1 day: $769 - 3 days: $3655 - 7 days: $8438 snowwater heli skiing based out of nelson is going green but not due to lack of snow – they are doing their part for the environment by using biodiesel in their generator and snowcats, the operation has an 18-kilowatt micro-hydroplant running six months of the year, and is heated by wood-burning boilers fueled by the scrub trees that, per government requirements, must be removed from the edges of snowcat roads.
posted in heli skiing, skiing,  skiing vacations |
“with all that snow comes some inevitability  difficult flying conditions.
these small steps aim to make a difference and ensure that all that fluffy  white is enjoyed in a green way.
the downtown area in winter park and neighboring fraser offer an even wider range of rentals.
posted on december 2, 2010 by  backcountryskiing snowwater heli skiing based out of nelson is going green but not due to  lack of snow – they are doing their part for the environment by using  biodiesel in their generator and snowcats, the operation has an 18-kilowatt  micro-hydroplant running six months of the year, and is heated by wood-burning  boilers fueled by the scrub trees that, per government requirements, must be  removed from the edges of snowcat roads.
amenities should include everything that people use at home, plus things a  ski resort needs such as space for skis, bikes, etc.
posted in skiing vacations | tagged leisure, ski, skiing vacations, travel, vacation | leave a comment
intermediate groups can improve powder technique in a fun, relaxed setting, while advanced groups can rock the hero lines.
posted on january 19, 2011  by backcountryskiing full day heliski for only $975 pp
there are many condos and townhomes  here that are a short walk away from the lifts and the resort’s new  village, and also on the free resort shuttle route.
heli skiing directory
alternatively, if the weather deteriorates during the  day while groups are helicopter skiing, the choppers will take them to the  snowcats where there can continue skiing the catski terrain for the rest of the  day.
let’s assume, for now, that the vacation rental is for a ski vacation.
the combination of services ensures guaranteed skiing or snowboarding during every day of a client’s package.
maximum group size is eight, and only  two groups per machine.
tagged backcountry skiing, heli skiing, heli skiing canada,  heliskiing, holidays, ski vacations, skiing, skiing holiday, skiing vacation,  skiing vacations, travel, vacations | leave a comment northern escape heli-skiing announces opening of catskiing terrain posted on december 22, 2010 by backcountryskiing northern escape heli-skiing has announced the purchase of two snowcats  and the opening of new 7,000 acre catskiing area offering runs over 2,500  vertical feet and encompassing some of the very most spectacular skiing terrain  imaginable.
the downtown area in winter park and neighboring fraser offer an even  wider range of rentals.
whether it’s for powder or pasta, you’ll never go  hungry at last frontier heliskiing.
visitors can combine a ski vacation along with urban  activities like shopping and dining in winter park.
posted in heli skiing, skiing, skiing  vacations |
some make it a lot better by paying attention to detail, and offering guests everything from discount lift tickets to free laundry, use of free video games and parking garages.
now even when the conditions are severe, we can still offer world-class skiing and snowboarding in deep, fresh powder thanks to our new catskiing operation.”
the vast new catskiing terrain features both tree-skiing terrain as well as  wide open bowls, and it encompasses an area nearly as large as the whistler and  blackcomb ski areas combined.
but for those that want to put a price on it, it is equivalent to the cost of a vacation rental.
some other note worth stats about mica: small ski groups, a 4:1 guest to guide ratio and a  maximum capacity of 16 guests!
if you want all inclusive food & accommodation at cost – you can have that too.
last frontier mica heli guides has long been know as one of the best in the industry and you only need to ask their guests what they think of the experience.
their interior location means that storms rarely are accompanied by fog, allowing guests to continue skiing when others cannot fly, are lodge bound or looking for alternate types of skiing.
tagged backcountry skiing, cat skiing, heli skiing, heli  skiing canada, heli skiing powder, heliskiing, holidays, skiing | leave a  comment robson heli magic formula posted on december 9, 2010 by  backcountryskiing rhm provides a semi-private experience for less than the standard industry  group rate.
12 to 18 metres of snow falls annually (40 to 60  feet), and only 15 percent of their total terrain is actually skied.
check out this mica heliskiing video for more proof.
posted on november 4, 2010 by  backcountryskiing eagle pass heli skiing seems to have it all, deep powder, pristine  mountains – and oh did i say deep powder? check out this video for some  pre winter stoke!
this means virtually no waiting for multiple groups.
state of the art safety equipment for every guest including, hand held radio, snowpulse air bag,  digital tranceiver, shovel and probe.
as a result, most of their guests  come back year after year.
you are receiving this offer because you are someone who loves to ride  champagne powder.
posted in heli skiing, skiing, skiing vacations |
get heliski fit – heli skiing bc is not like resort  skiing in colorado or ontario.
just $140 per person for breakfast, lunch, dinner, and some delicious après ski.
these small steps aim to make a difference and ensure that all that fluffy white is enjoyed in a green way.
bring your appetite – helicopter skiing is  invigorating and exciting.
that’s right, just visit the crescent spur facebook page, click the like button, and enter yourself in the giveaway.
the downtown area is at a  breathtaking altitude of 9,100 ft while the highest incorporated point  stretches into the clouds at 12,060 ft. getting down to the vacation rentals, visitors have a truckload of choices,  starting from ski-in/ski-out town homes and condos scattered all over the  resort.
san francisco, ca, december 14, 2010 /24-7pressrelease/ — located in  remote northwestern region of british columbia, northern escape heli-skiing has  long been renowned for providing some of the deepest, most reliable snowpack in  the world.
the  operation is based on kinbasket lake, about two hours north of revelstoke.
snowwater also has an on-site recycling facility and encourages staff members to car pool, and employs an environmental purchasing policy.
mountain homes offer a cozy alpine experience similar  to wealthy swiss chalets.
the fitter you are, the more fun you’ll  have.
great terrain, snow and selection.
in the downtown area, sawmill station and telemark are popular locations.
free heli skiing week!
outdoor hot tubs and heated pools are quite common  too, and so is wifi internet, cable tv with a dvd player and movie collection.
vacation rentals with all this and more are available at strategic locations in the resort, from the new village lofts to founder’s pointe and fraser crossing.
try out k2 skis and prior snowboards for free and see how  they make your day better, not only when heliskiing bc but on your home hill as  well.
a boutique company with a great  history, crescent spur offers a very personal heli-skiing experience for a  maximum of 20 guests per week.
- 1500 square kilometres of wide alpine bowls, steep faces and classic glades - average up to seven metres annual snowfall - two guides per group with smaller groups on widely varied terrain allows for greater choice.
finding such a matching property in a suitable location such as fraser crossing shouldn’t be all that hard.
but for those that  want to put a price on it, it is equivalent to the cost of a vacation rental.
last frontier posted in heli skiing,  skiing, skiing vacations |
flights are more relaxed and the snow is wide open.