some are borrowed from other sports such as skateboarding, while others are exclusive to snowboarding.
it was also responsible for getting  snowboarding into the 1998 winter olympics in nagano, japan.
inverted manoeuvres with ever more difficult combinations  of twists, rolls, hand grabs, reverse landings and spins provide great  entertainment.
let the best boarder win.
snowboarding purists and competition don't mix.
an international licence gives access to open and then european events.
thesnowlife events diary has dates and website links to  european events happening this year.
inverted manoeuvres with ever more difficult combinations of twists, rolls, hand grabs, reverse landings and spins provide great entertainment.
hey – it's meant to be about self–expression and personal enjoyment.
the moves get wilder every year, as the impossible becomes the humdrum.
first across the line wins and moves on to the  next round.
but here's the truth – good riders still like to be measured against the best, and world–class riders can make a lot of money.
world cup events have entry restrictions and are usually for british team members only (fis).
although it was designed for freestyle skiing, the ramp was instantly adopted  by the snowboard big air specialists.
this is where competition gets gladiatorial (although deliberate bodily contact is a strict no-no).
groups of four or six riders start together and descend a specially built course which mix up banked turns, jumps, waves and other variations in the terrain.
the pipe is the ultimate playground for tricks on a snowboard.
there are regular snowboard competitions on the uk's artificial slopes, indoor snow slopes and the scottish ski areas – all great places to start competing.
boardercross (olympic discipline)
judges award points for the degree of difficulty and the execution.
british half pipe star lesley mckenna made history in 2002 in salt lake city as the first british snowboarder to compete in the winter olympics.
independent international competitions such as air and style, verbier ride,  bomb comp and cham jam are open events held in europe for both the pros and  aspiring rider alike.
the moves get wilder every year, as the impossible  becomes the humdrum.
parallel slalom and giant slalom think fast.
snowlife is an initiative of the snowsport foundation and is supported by snowsport industries of great britain (sigb).
this is where competition gets gladiatorial (although deliberate bodily  contact is a strict no-no).
the rider performs a variation of tricks back to back over a course of obstacles including jumps, halfpipe, hips, rails and fun boxes.
snowlife is an initiative of the snowsport foundation and is supported by  snowsport industries of great britain (sigb).
as well as slalom, competitors can also  compete in giant slalom (control gates set wider apart), parallel slalom (two  riders race head to head on identical courses set beside each other) and
add a good run in, landing zone and  plenty of music.
groups of four or six riders start together and  descend a specially built course which mix up banked turns, jumps, waves and  other variations in the terrain.
sheffield also has the national aerials water ramp.
an international licence gives access  to open and then european events.
but here's the truth  – good riders still like to be measured against the best, and  world–class riders can make a lot of money.
to move to the international stage you need to be performing to a very high level at national competitions.
the main snowboard competition circuit in the uk is the british snow tour.
first across the line wins and moves on to the next round.
images © 2005 burton snowboards.
parallel giant slalom.
some are borrowed  from other sports such as skateboarding, while others are exclusive to  snowboarding.
to compete on the fis tour you must have a fis licence, which is issued by  snowsport gb.
independent international competitions such as air and style, verbier ride, bomb comp and cham jam are open events held in europe for both the pros and aspiring rider alike.
fis is the governing body for skiing, and started to run world cup snowboard competitions in 1995.
just check out thesnowlife events diary.
riders take to the pipe one at a time, with judges marking on degree of difficulty and execution.
competitors race down a course of tightly set  control gates against the clock.
all site content is © 2005  sigb.
to take part you'll need to register, visit the british snow tour website.
it plays host  to a number of competitions, and is perfect for practising moves before heading  into a real snow half pipe.
for more information on the uk snowboarding visit the soulsports website and thesnowboard club uk.
competitors race down a course of tightly set control gates against the clock.
for more information on the uk snowboarding visit the soulsports website  and thesnowboard club uk.
the average gradient is 17 degrees, and the walls  around four metres high.
the title says it all.
fis is the governing body for skiing, and started to run world cup  snowboard competitions in 1995.
hey – it's meant to  be about self–expression and personal enjoyment.
to move to the international stage you need to be performing to a  very high level at national competitions.
thesnowlife events diary has dates and website links to european events happening this year.
world cup events have entry restrictions and  are usually for british team members only (fis).
the snowboard half pipe involves riding from wall to wall in a pipe around 110 metres long, 15 metres wide the average gradient is 17 degrees, and the walls around four metres high.
all site content is © 2005 sigb.
snowboarding with disabilities competition snowboarding purists and competition don't mix.
uk competitions there are regular snowboard competitions on the uk's artificial slopes,  indoor snow slopes and the scottish ski areas – all great places to start  competing.
judges award points for the degree of difficulty and the  execution.
although it was designed for freestyle skiing, the ramp was instantly adopted by the snowboard big air specialists.
the rider performs a variation of tricks back to back over a course of  obstacles including jumps, halfpipe, hips, rails and fun boxes.
there is a full half–pipe at the sheffield ski village.
add a good run in, landing zone and plenty of music.
to compete on the fis tour you must have a fis licence, which is issued by snowsport gb.
it plays host to a number of competitions, and is perfect for practising moves before heading into a real snow half pipe.
riders take to the pipe one at a time, with judges marking on  degree of difficulty and execution.
british half pipe  star lesley mckenna made history in 2002 in salt lake city as the first british  snowboarder to compete in the winter olympics.
the international competition circuit is made up of independent events in various disciplines and an established world cup series run by fis (international ski federation).
it was also responsible for getting snowboarding into the 1998 winter olympics in nagano, japan.
half pipe (olympic discipline)
international competitions the international competition circuit is made up of independent events in  various disciplines and an established world cup series run by fis  (international ski federation).
the  snowboard half pipe involves riding from wall to wall in a pipe around 110  metres long, 15 metres wide
riders take off and perform a huge range of manoeuvres.
as well as slalom, competitors can also compete in giant slalom (control gates set wider apart), parallel slalom (two riders race head to head on identical courses set beside each other) and parallel giant slalom.