once that's accomplished, riders must learn to shift the balance from the toe edge to the heel edge of the board.
in 1982, the first national snowboard race was held in woodstock, vermont.
he won his first competition by putting a binding on the snowboard, which made a difference in handling the board.
burton introduced the first real ski technology for snowboards in 1980 and is now a leader in the industry, continuing to streamline the product.
"the movements are much different.
wetmore says the major difference in learning to ski or snowboard  is the learning curve.
boarding  injuries are upper body -- such as broken wrists, dislocated shoulders.
as you come across the hill on a toe edge, point the board into the hill, then  lift the toes, look in the direction you wish to turn and come across the  mountain by transferring your weight to the heel edge.
but the sport has long been available, asmountain creek in vernon is kass' home mountain.
"if it does  influence adults, it's because it will make them more willing to let their own  kids come out and try snowboarding.
the required equipment includes a snowboard and bindings (which are usually  attached) and snowboard boots, which are soft sided but fairly stiff in order  to support your ankles.
in 1969, dimitrije milovich built a board that combined surfboards and  skis.
don't think that knowing how to ski will help; snowboarding is actually  easier to learn by going in fresh.
it is also fun and exhilarating.
read current newsletter privacy statementemail address: sussex county native danny kass brought national attention to the skylands region in the 2002 winter olympics when he won a silver medal for snowboarding.
from there the  popularity began to grow among youngsters.
and while the kids are still out there, snowboarding has blossomed into an all-ages, all-gender activity.
but after you learn  how to turn, the rest of it is just tweaking those turns, burying the turn  shape, the turn size and the amount of pressure.
triple combine national  champion.
mountain creek sussex county native danny kass brought national attention to the skylands  region in the 2002 winter olympics when he won a silver medal for snowboarding.
by the 1990's skiers and riders were sharing mountains and soon, terrain parks with quarter pipes and half pipes were opened specifically for snowboarders.
"i think the media and marketers picked up on that small segment and kind of exploited it.
but the sport has long been available, asmountain creek  in vernon  is kass' home mountain.
a word of warning -- do not buy  equipment for teens who will outgrow their boots in six months.
the required equipment includes a snowboard and bindings (which are usually attached) and snowboard boots, which are soft sided but fairly stiff in order to support your ankles.
if i  had the choice of blowing out my knee or dislocating my shoulder, i'd take the  shoulder."
there are people like that on snowboards, but the demographics have changed so much." case in point is 52-year-old milford resident fred stem, who began riding five years ago.
"as far as style and attitude, they had these crazy maneuvers and antics they were trying to do in the terrain park.
the pipes are what you see in the olympics and x games, when boarders go up a sloped wall, turn around in midair and come back down.
wetmore has had students come in with the  attitude they would never learn, and they didn't.
"you know you're doing it right if, when you're balancing on your toe  edge, all of you is over the toe edge.
once you are certain it will become a fulltime hobby and want to purchase equipment, a quality full package can run from $450 to $500.
for those in the area who knew nothing about the sport, it suddenly became interesting.
get our newsletter, this week in the nj skylands, with updates, special offers and good ideas!
your knees are over the toes, and you  have your belly button poking out," wetmore explains.
kids wanted to snowboard and be part of a rough, tough, bad element.
in 1969, dimitrije milovich built a board that combined surfboards and skis.
some 35  years later, various forms of snowboards began to surface, starting with  "the snurfer" - two skis pounded together with a rope going through  the front to enable the rider to keep his balance.
"it's no more difficult to learn than skiing," says the 28-year-old wetmore, who began riding six years ago.
"ski injuries are usually to your thumb and lower body -- knee injuries and things like that.
according to wetmore, no one should be intimidated about  trying to start snowboarding, no matter what the age.
once you are  certain it will become a fulltime hobby and want to purchase equipment, a  quality full package can run from $450 to $500.
what appears to be this kind of group of baggy-clothes kids who have reputations as bad boys, are really every-day kids that seem to be respectful and polite on the slopes."
so, learning how to balance is the primary thing."
in 1982, the  first national snowboard race was held in woodstock, vermont.
as you come across the hill on a toe edge, point the board into the hill, then lift the toes, look in the direction you wish to turn and come across the mountain by transferring your weight to the heel edge.
for those in the area who knew nothing about the sport, it suddenly became  interesting.
photo courtesy shawnee mountain
wetmore has had students come in with the attitude they would never learn, and they didn't.
"if you get too far forward, the board goes out behind you, if you go too far behind, it slips out in front of you.
since a rider has both feet attached to one board  as opposed to a ski for each leg, the first thing they need to learn is to  stand and balance on the board with one foot, than attach the other foot  between the front and back binding and learn to balance on that while staying  over center.
don't think that knowing how to ski will help; snowboarding is actually easier to learn by going in fresh.
in 1977, jack burton, who had entered various snurfer competitions, saw major potential in snowboarding.
while wetmore feels it is difficult to teach the art of snowboarding  without giving a visual demonstration, she did her best to explain the basic  nuances of getting started.
there was a time when there was conflict between skiers and boarders.
from there the popularity began to grow among youngsters.
how far a rider wants to go after that depends on the individual's confidence level or ability.
"it doesn't matter what age you are, if you're willing to suffer through three days of falling until you find your balance point, and wear appropriate protective gear to teal with bumps and bruises, you can learn it."
wait until the growth spurt stops.
they thought it was too dangerous, that i was going to get hurt, that all the people who snowboard are strange looking, they're a nuisance and i didn't want to be with them.
once that's accomplished, riders must learn to shift the balance  from the toe edge to the heel edge of the board.
"if you ride down the hill with the board flat, you'll tip over.
"i don't know if that was ever the case," wetmore says.
"all that coverage can excite young people and i think he'll  serve as a role model for some of these kids.
some 35 years later, various forms of snowboards began to surface, starting with "the snurfer" - two skis pounded together with a rope going through the front to enable the rider to keep his balance.
but i find it all handled very  politely.
those who are determined  usually have some degree of success.
"ski injuries are usually  to your thumb and lower body -- knee injuries and things like that.
just ask fred stern.
wait until the  growth spurt stops.
"if it does influence adults, it's because it will make them more willing to let their own kids come out and try snowboarding.
they thought it was too dangerous, that i was going to get hurt,  that all the people who snowboard are strange looking, they're a nuisance and i  didn't want to be with them.
since then, he has had two knee operations and still continues  to snowboard.
it is more difficult to actually learn how to snowboard, but easier to become proficient at it.
"it doesn't matter what age you are, if you're  willing to suffer through three days of falling until you find your balance  point, and wear appropriate protective gear to teal with bumps and bruises, you  can learn it."
"if i wanted to hang out with them and do what they were doing, it made  sense to change over to snowboarding."
"the injuries are just different," wetmore said.
"it started as a carry-over from skateboarding," stem says.
"as far as style and attitude, they had these crazy maneuvers and antics  they were trying to do in the terrain park.
there was a time when there was  conflict between skiers and boarders.
your knees are over the toes, and you have your belly button poking out," wetmore explains.
so, learning how to balance is the primary  thing."
with the exception of learning to ride  the lift, you can throw all you know about skiing out the window when you learn  to snowboard.
sometimes it's harder, because people who have skied before are  used to doing skiing things
for those who want to  try it, there are ample areas in the region besides shawnee mountain and  mountain creek, including hidden valley in vernon, campgaw mountain in mahwah,  new york's hunter mountain and ski windham and the pocono resorts at camelback,  jack frost/big boulder and blue mountain.
justin, a delaware valley regional high  school graduate who now lives in colorado, is the three-time defending united  states amateur snowboarding association (usasa)
by the 1990's skiers and riders were sharing  mountains and soon, terrain parks with quarter pipes and half pipes were opened  specifically for snowboarders.
"if you're on  your heel edge, you would be kind of squatting, sitting in an imaginary chair,  with your spine aligned over your heel edge.
burton  introduced the first real ski technology for snowboards in 1980 and is now a  leader in the industry, continuing to streamline the product.
and it's hard for them to put those moves aside."
"if i wanted to hang out with them and do what they were doing, it made sense to change over to snowboarding."
wetmore does not recommend attempting a halfpipe  until you can turn proficiently in both directions.
"i think danny kass has had an effect on the (popularity) of the sport around here," says jim tust, administrative manager ofshawnee mountain in the poconos.
"you know you're doing it right if, when you're balancing on your toe edge, all of you is over the toe edge.
justin, a delaware valley regional high school graduate who now lives in colorado, is the three-time defending united states amateur snowboarding association (usasa)
kids wanted to snowboard and be part of a rough, tough, bad  element.
"it's no more difficult to learn than  skiing," says the 28-year-old wetmore, who began riding six years ago.
those who are determined usually have some degree of success.
and it's hard for them to put those moves  aside."
the website www.sbhistory.de, credits a man named "jack" burchett with inventing the first snowboard in 1929, when he cut out a plank of plywood and tried to secure his feet with some clothesline and horse reins.
he won his first competition by putting a  binding on the snowboard, which made a difference in handling the board.
but i find it all handled very politely.
like stem, many adults have followed their children into the sport and been pleasantly surprised.
it's basically fine  tuning."
while many mountains initially  resisted the boarders because of the rift between them and skiers, the sport  became too popular to ignore.
beginning riders should rent their equipment when starting out.
sometimes it's harder, because people who have skied before are used to doing skiing things
" "i don't know if (kass) will influence adults too much in terms of trying it, but he will do a lot for kids," adds jennifer wetmore, assistant director of shawnee's ski and snowboarding school.
"i  think the media and marketers picked up on that small segment and kind of  exploited it.
"my folks weren't enthusiastic at all about letting me get on a  snowboard.
since a rider has both feet attached to one board as opposed to a ski for each leg, the first thing they need to learn is to stand and balance on the board with one foot, than attach the other foot between the front and back binding and learn to balance on that while staying over center.
stem's two sons, 21-year-old justin and 18-year-old greg, have been riding for the past 10 years.
what appears to be this kind of group of baggy-clothes kids who have  reputations as bad boys, are really every-day kids that seem to be respectful  and polite on the slopes."
but that seems to be changing  dramatically.
by rich fisher questions and comments site contents and contact information advertising and promotions -- http://www.njskylands.com -- revised: january, 2012-- copyright ©1996-2012 guest services, inc.
"if you get  too far forward, the board goes out behind you, if you go too far behind, it  slips out in front of you.
as with anything new, it will take patience and confidence.
"the  injuries are just different," wetmore said.
she also says there is no difference in the danger level.
stem's two sons, 21-year-old justin and 18-year-old greg, have  been riding for the past 10 years.
the website www.sbhistory.de, credits a man named "jack" burchett  with inventing the first snowboard in 1929, when he cut out a plank of plywood  and tried to secure his feet with some clothesline and horse reins.
as with anything new, it  will take patience and confidence.
helmets are not required but highly recommended.
a word of warning -- do not buy equipment for teens who will outgrow their boots in six months.
" "i don't know if (kass) will influence adults too much in terms of  trying it, but he will do a lot for kids," adds jennifer wetmore,  assistant director of shawnee's ski and snowboarding school.
there are people like that on snowboards, but the demographics have  changed so much." case in point is 52-year-old milford resident fred stem, who began riding  five years ago.
if i had the choice of blowing out my knee or dislocating my shoulder, i'd take the shoulder."
"you're standing on a platform," wetmore said.
by rich fisher chevrolet us snowboard grand prix held at mountain creek ski resort.
while many mountains initially resisted the boarders because of the rift between them and skiers, the sport became too popular to ignore.
"my folks weren't enthusiastic at all about letting me get on a snowboard.
in skiing, it is easier to learn, but  more difficult to become proficient.
but after you learn how to turn, the rest of it is just tweaking those turns, burying the turn shape, the turn size and the amount of pressure.
it's basically fine tuning."
and while the kids are still out there,  snowboarding has blossomed into an all-ages, all-gender activity.
with the exception of learning to ride the lift, you can throw all you know about skiing out the window when you learn to snowboard.
without any edge in the snow you have no way to control it.
like stem,  many adults have followed their children into the sport and been pleasantly  surprised.
boarding injuries are upper body -- such as broken wrists, dislocated shoulders.
"all that coverage can excite young people and i think he'll serve as a role model for some of these kids.
this allows the rider to turn.
but that seems to be changing dramatically.
but the bottom line is that the snowboarding populace is not a motley crew of  grungy, tattooed teenagers who love to wreak havoc on unsuspecting skiers.
triple combine national champion.
"i used to ski while they were snowboarding," fred stem says.
"if you're on your heel edge, you would be kind of squatting, sitting in an imaginary chair, with your spine aligned over your heel edge.
photo courtesy shawnee mountain it looks hard and appears to be dangerous, and at that level it might be if  you are not prepared.
since then, he has had two knee operations and still continues to snowboard.
" indeed, the sport has grown up with skewed perceptions and misconceptions.
for those who want to try it, there are ample areas in the region besides shawnee mountain and mountain creek, including hidden valley in vernon, campgaw mountain in mahwah, new york's hunter mountain and ski windham and the pocono resorts at camelback, jack frost/big boulder and blue mountain.
wetmore says the major difference in learning to ski or snowboard is the learning curve.
wetmore does not recommend attempting a halfpipe until you can turn proficiently in both directions.
in 1977, jack burton, who had entered various snurfer competitions, saw  major potential in snowboarding.
it is more difficult to actually learn how to snowboard,  but easier to become proficient at it.
while wetmore feels it is difficult to teach the art of snowboarding without giving a visual demonstration, she did her best to explain the basic nuances of getting started.
in skiing, it is easier to learn, but more difficult to become proficient.
it looks hard and appears to be dangerous, and at that level it might be if you are not prepared.
"i think danny kass has had an effect on the (popularity) of the sport  around here," says jim tust, administrative manager ofshawnee mountain in  the poconos.
but the bottom line is that the snowboarding populace is not a motley crew of grungy, tattooed teenagers who love to wreak havoc on unsuspecting skiers.
according to wetmore, no one should be intimidated about trying to start snowboarding, no matter what the age.
the pipes are what you see in the olympics and x  games, when boarders go up a sloped wall, turn around in midair and come back  down.
how far a rider wants to go after that depends on the individual's  confidence level or ability.