injured while working where you should be covered by your employer.
world nomads is supported by different insurers from around the world.
your winter sports equipment isn’t covered while you’re using  it, but it may be covered if stolen from an official resort storage (where  you’ve checked it in, kept the receipt and have a police report within 24  hours of it being stolen).
as long as you have taken proper care of it in the first place, you are  probably covered.
am i covered in any ski resort anywhere?
if you stay within these safe areas and keep within your ability, then we can help if you have an accident.
backcountry or any areas out of bounds of the ski resort.
ski resorts are often held liable for all winter sports activities within their boundaries and so they take time to make sure the runs are groomed, the instructors are competent and any dangerous conditions like heavy snow, ice, and avalanche risks are properly managed or marked as closed or out of bounds.
where you've bought a plan which includes the type of snowsports you'll be doing, there is cover for emergency medical treatment undertaken by qualified resort staff and any air evacuation or road ambulance transport to get you to the nearest suitable medical facility, all subject to theemergency assistance team’s approval.
you only ever seem hear complaints about travel insurance and that companies are a bunch of cheating lying thieves.
where you've bought a plan which includes the type of snowsports you'll be  doing, there is cover for emergency medical treatment undertaken by qualified  resort staff and any air evacuation or road ambulance transport to get you to  the nearest suitable medical facility, all subject to theemergency assistance  team’s approval.
we offer general travel insurance for adventurous travellers, not search and rescue cover, so we wont be able to come look for you in the wilderness.
again, our insurers have different terms of cover, dependent on which  country you are from, so check out the policy conditions carefully to make sure  that the cover is right for you and your particular winter sporting adventure.
top 5 snow questions 1.
always read your policy wording to review your specific coverage and to make sure that the policy is right for you.
skiing causes a lot of medical claims and as pretty as  the white stuff looks, it can be dangerous so let's be careful out there.
not all of our plans automatically include cover if  you’re in an accident on the hill, so check the list ofcovered adventure  sports and activities and read the full description of cover before you hit the  slopes.
need help working out which plan you’ll need, ask us!
if you're thinking of more extreme skiing  it's important to check with us and read the policy wording carefully because  some of our insurers can't offer cover - they find it very difficult to verify  the individual's ability and level of risk.
not all of our plans automatically include cover if you’re in an accident on the hill, so check the list ofcovered adventure sports and activities and read the full description of cover before you hit the slopes.
your gear wont be covered if you simply forget it or leave it anywhere where the general public has constant access or where items can be taken without your knowledge, including ski racks or roof racks (secured or not), unattended while you get lunch or in resort lockers in public areas.
some plans also cover off piste skiing and snowboarding, provided it is not  done in restricted or unsafe areas.
if you stay within these safe areas and keep within your ability, then we can  help if you have an accident.
in general, cover is available for recreational skiing or snowboarding on piste and in areas designated 'safe' by ski resort staff within the resort’s boundaries.
to be covered for snowsports, you must choose the correct plan or adventure sport upgrade at the time you buy your policy.
our insurers take different views on this type of incident.
if you choose one of our plans, which do not include cover for snowsports.
even if you’re with a guide or you’re an experience backcountry skier, if you go into closed areas or outside the resort boundaries, our insurers may decide you’ve put yourself at needless risk and it’s likely you wont be covered.
if you're thinking of more extreme skiing it's important to check with us and read the policy wording carefully because some of our insurers can't offer cover - they find it very difficult to verify the individual's ability and level of risk.
well, we thought we'd open the lid on a little of what we do and tell it as it is from some of the people we have helped.in and out just messin’ around ligament injuries look both ways, and down next time, shin guards not what i call beginner’s luck skiing accident snowboarding accident if you still have any questions about covering adventure activities, please don't hesitate to ask.
am i covered while i am learning to ski?
where can i ski or board?
your gear wont be covered if you simply forget it or  leave it anywhere where the general public has constant access or where items  can be taken without your knowledge, including ski racks or roof racks (secured  or not), unattended while you get lunch or in resort lockers in public areas.
ski resorts are often held liable for all winter sports activities within  their boundaries and so they take time to make sure the runs are groomed, the  instructors are competent and any dangerous conditions like heavy snow, ice,  and avalanche risks are properly managed or marked as closed or out of bounds.
if you're not sure justcall us or drop us an e-mail
yes, as long as the accident occurred within the bounds of a ski resort.
and let us know if you find a really unusual one.
skiing and snowboarding can be risky and injuries are common, even for the most experienced riders.
please check your policy wording for all of the details and to make sure the  cover is right for you.
faq's cover yourself skiing and snowboarding skiing and snowboarding can be risky and injuries are common, even for the  most experienced riders.
always read your policy wording to review your specific coverage and to make  sure that the policy is right for you.
and we'll come straight  back to you!
check our list ofcovered adventure sports and activities to make sure you're choosing the correct plan for your winter adventure.
in general, cover is available for recreational skiing or snowboarding on  piste and in areas designated 'safe' by ski resort staff within the  resort’s boundaries.
to be covered for snowsports, you must choose the correct plan or adventure  sport upgrade at the time you buy your policy.
yes, as long as you are within the boundaries of the resort and are being  sensible.
no, ski equipment isn't covered while you are using it.
you are not covered where you are: willfully exposing yourself to a needless risk like cliff drops or taking  on the double black diamond run after your first ever day on the slopes.
check our list ofcovered  adventure sports and activities to make sure you're choosing the correct plan  for your winter adventure.
your winter sports equipment isn’t covered while you’re using it, but it may be covered if stolen from an official resort storage (where you’ve checked it in, kept the receipt and have a police report within 24 hours of it being stolen).
some plans also cover off piste skiing and snowboarding, provided it is not done in restricted or unsafe areas.
learn the lingo on your mp3 player or iphone with our free language guides find us on these social networks:
well, we thought we'd open the  lid on a little of what we do and tell it as it is from some of the people we  have helped.
learn the lingo on your mp3 player or iphone with our free language  guides find us on these social networks: insurance
intoxicated or have taken illegal drugs where your ability and decision  making is probably compromised.
if you still have any questions about covering adventure activities, please  don't hesitate to ask.
and we'll come straight back to you!
extreme skiing or snowboarding.
even if you’re with a guide or you’re an experience backcountry  skier, if you go into closed areas or outside the resort boundaries, our  insurers may decide you’ve put yourself at needless risk and it’s  likely you wont be covered.
if i break my leg on the mountain and need to be brought down, am i  covered?
we offer general travel insurance for adventurous  travellers, not search and rescue cover, so we wont be able to come look for  you in the wilderness.
how we help you only ever seem hear complaints about travel insurance and that  companies are a bunch of cheating lying thieves.
in and out just messin’ around ligament injuries look  both ways, and down next time, shin guards not what i call beginner’s luck skiing accident snowboarding accident ask a question
so what does safe mean?
if you’re in a race or competition.
if i wipe-out and break my new ski's are they covered?
skiing causes a lot of medical claims and as pretty as the white stuff looks, it can be dangerous so let's be careful out there.
what happens if someone steals my gear?
again, our insurers have different terms of cover, dependent on which country you are from, so check out the policy conditions carefully to make sure that the cover is right for you and your particular winter sporting adventure.