some skiers are now dabbling in snowboarding, but many boarders are new to the slopes.
to get your trip planning started, here are just five of the best european snowboarding destinations.
switzerland from the stunning views of the alps to the amazing runs and top notch  accommodations for visitors, you cannot find a better place to snowboard than  switzerland.
there are just fewer than 150 runs at this destination and the skill levels are scattered to include everyone.
you will have a better time on trails suitable to boarders and you will enjoy the companionship of many other boarders.
enjoy some party time and get shuttled right to the peaks when it is time to gear up and get serious again.
you can reach the daring slopes of the alps, and there are destinations for low budget as well as high budget snowboarding adventures.
france it wasn’t until the 1992 olympic games that most people realized france is a great place to hit the slopes.
make sure to plan a lesson or two before you hit the slopes alone.
every year, snowboarders head to northern spain to hit the trails of the pyrenees.
written by snowboard and ski guy october 17th, 2011 at 2:12 pm posted in snowboarding-skiing destinations tagged with austria, europe snowboarding, france, italy, snowboarding europe ,spain, switzerland « older entries
if you are going for an extended stay, hop on a shuttle and hit some runs  at keystone.
all others will leave you disappointed.
france it wasn’t until the 1992 olympic games that most people realized  france is a great place to hit the slopes.
if you are traveling in canada, look for resorts in lake louise and  whistler.
many people take  vacations or head to vacation homes in locations where flip flops are still  appropriate, but others jump for joy and drag out the snowboards.
for  those with an adventurous spirit and enough skill, this is an excellent  snowboarding destination.
the huge historic district is the largest in the state and comes  with shopping opportunities, restaurants serving delicious food, and oxygen  bars for lively entertainment.
for the  tricksters in the pack, there are three terrain parks, such as freeway  superpark.
there is another terrain park more suitable for beginners, so you don’t have to jump into the big leagues right away.
free shuttles are also offered  into town for shopping, dining out, and a few bars to relax in and have a good  time.
snowboarding vacation resorts whether snowboarding is your only vacation goal or just one element of your vacation, you can’t go wrong by visiting a resort.
this is the capital of winter resorts in the united states, so you will never struggle to find an open resort.
for those with an adventurous spirit and enough skill, this is an excellent snowboarding destination.
if this will be your first time on a snowboard, add the desire to learn something new to that list.
those who know what they are  doing and want to turn some tricks, there is a terrain park as well.
not only do these resorts offer snowboarding opportunities, but they offer a variety of sports suitable to the mounds of wet, white snow.
most states in the u.s. that get a lot of snow will have resorts dotted along their terrain, especially those near mountain ranges.
this is one of the largest and most reputable ski resorts in the country and it happens to be perfect for those just exploring snowboarding.
safety comes first, but fun is a close second!
daytime snowboarding is always  full of adventure, but there is nothing like the alps after dark.
snowboarding and skiing equipment news and reviews without comments while skiers used to rule the slopes, more and more people are now sliding over the slopes on snowboards.
written by snowboard and ski guy october 17th, 2011 at 2:12 pm posted in snowboarding-skiing destinations tagged with austria, europe snowboarding, france, italy, snowboarding europe ,spain, switzerland« older entries the journalist template by lucian e. marin — built for wordpress
written by snowboard and ski guy october 18th, 2011 at 9:36 am posted in snowboarding-skiing destinations tagged with breckenridge, colorado, colorado resorts, colorado snowboarding, keystone, vail snowboarding europe on any budget without comments what do you do when the temperatures plummet, the snow starts to fall, and  you can no longer walk out the front door in flip flops?
in some areas, snowboarders seem to be taking over the slopes completely.
if you may be among them this winter, make sure to consider the condition of the slopes before you head out for those first runs.
aspen is the most popular area in the state, but some of the top resorts across the state include: if you are traveling in canada, look for resorts in lake louise and whistler.
italy high altitude snowboarders with a true desire to feel their blood pump are now turning to italy.
this terrain park is the home of a few snowboarding competitions and  gets the most attention from boarders in colorado.
once you decide which resort you want to visit, try to schedule  snowboarding lessons ahead of time.
not only do they offer great runs for snowboarding, but they  offer a hassle-free environment where boarders are free to explore.
so, check out thesecolorado snowboarding destinations breckenridge
many will offer snowboarding lessons, so you don’t have to teach yourself how to board.
this terrain park is the home of a few snowboarding competitions and gets the most attention from boarders in colorado.
what is amazing about these resorts is that you step out the  front door directly onto the slopes.
you have to learn the safety guidelines so you make it back safe and sound.
they offer  quite a few runs just for beginners, plus a school with more than 800  instructors who speak a variety of languages.
there are actually hundreds of shops and restaurants, so there is  always something to do in vail.
there are some excellent resorts, such as megeve and chamonix, where the slopes are perfect for the thrill of snowboarding.
this ensures you get into the lessons soon  after arriving, that way you can spend the rest of the time improving  your skills.
if you are going for an extended stay, hop on a shuttle and hit some runs at keystone.
if you want to board in colorado, there are three destinations that are hot for boarders.
the board has brought them out of hiding in the winter months and given them a form of physical activity they find enjoyable.
once you decide which resort you want to visit, try to schedule snowboarding lessons ahead of time.
austria slip into a world where the modern mingles with the traditional and small chalet villages welcome visitors with open arms.
many people take vacations or head to vacation homes in locations where flip flops are still appropriate, but others jump for joy and drag out the snowboards.
written by snowboard and ski guy october 18th, 2011 at 9:36 am posted in snowboarding-skiing destinations tagged with breckenridge, colorado, colorado resorts, colorado snowboarding, keystone, vail without comments what do you do when the temperatures plummet, the snow starts to fall, and you can no longer walk out the front door in flip flops?
if you bring all of your gear rather than renting it there,  you can hit the slopes immediately without standing around in lines.
if you are one of these winter-loving thrill seekers, there is no better place to hit the trails than europe.
the tourist offices are nicely designed and staffed, and transportation is never a problem.
once you  know the basics of the sport, you can have an adventurous snowboardiing  vacation without putting your life in danger.
for boarders with experience, there are many different trails that offer  challenge and blood-rushing adventure.
preparing for a snowboarding vacation you only need two things to have a great snowboarding vacation: the perfect location and the desire to get out there and have fun.
if you are one of these winter-loving thrill seekers, there is no better  place to hit the trails than europe.
no matter what your budget may be, there  are destinations just perfect for you.
no travel required, so you can get in more  hours on the trails.
you have  to learn the safety guidelines so you make it back safe and sound.
free shuttles are also offered into town for shopping, dining out, and a few bars to relax in and have a good time.
if you want to stay away from conflict and go where you are welcome, it is important to identify trails suitable for snowboarders.
if you want to visit the best resorts for colorado snowboarding, pick one of these.
the resorts offer packages that can work with any budget, so you  don’t have to go broke to put your board on the snow.
besides the challenging and fun trails open to snowboarders, visitors  get to immerse themselves in the dynamic culture of spain for a complete  vacation.
you will  have a better time on trails suitable to boarders and you will enjoy the  companionship of many other boarders.
to get your trip planning started, here  are just five of the best european snowboarding destinations.
this hasn’t always been a hot spot for boarders, but the amazing mountains with high altitudes have turned that around.
these are the people who love the joys that come with the cold winter season.
there are many hotel rooms to be found at affordable prices, so low budget snowboarding is always an option.
the tickets are interchangeable between breckenridge and keystone,  so you can enjoy daytime boarding in breckenridge then hit up keystone for the  nightlife.
the most important rule is to have fun on your snowboarding vacation.
besides the challenging and fun trails open to snowboarders, visitors get to immerse themselves in the dynamic culture of spain for a complete vacation.
written by snowboard and ski guy october 19th, 2011 at 3:35 pm posted in snowboarding-skiing destinations tagged with snowboard vacation, snowboard vacations, snowboarding resort,  snowboarding vacation, snowboarding vacations the best colorado snowboarding destinations without comments snowboarding is picking up more fans with each passing year, but that  hasn’t changed the fact that skiers are never thrilled to see boards on  their trails.
keystone also offers amusements beyond snowboarding, including: ice skating dog sledding hiking no matter what time of year it may be, there is something to do at  breckenridge and keystone.
not only do they offer great runs for snowboarding, but they offer a hassle-free environment where boarders are free to explore.
there is a lot of excitement and thrill that comes with gliding down a mountain  on a board, but this sport can also be dangerous if you don’t have the  right snowboarding gear and knowledge.
there are just fewer than 150 runs at this destination and the skill levels
no matter what your budget may be, there are destinations just perfect for you.
written by snowboard and ski guy october 19th, 2011 at 3:35 pm posted in snowboarding-skiing destinations tagged with snowboard vacation, snowboard vacations, snowboarding resort, snowboarding vacation, snowboarding vacations without comments snowboarding is picking up more fans with each passing year, but that hasn’t changed the fact that skiers are never thrilled to see boards on their trails.
there are many hotel rooms to be found at affordable prices, so low  budget snowboarding is always an option.
some of the more popular areas in the u.s. include: utah is one of the biggest states for snowboarding.
before taking up snowboarding, they never really enjoyed the cold, wet snow.
are scattered to include everyone.
keystone also offers amusements beyond snowboarding, including: no matter what time of year it may be, there is something to do at breckenridge and keystone.
the tickets are interchangeable between breckenridge and keystone, so you can enjoy daytime boarding in breckenridge then hit up keystone for the nightlife.
no travel required, so you can get in more hours on the trails.
the resorts offer packages that can work with any budget, so you don’t have to go broke to put your board on the snow.
top it  all off with super friendly people and you see why so many flock to switzerland  to hit the trails every year.
for boarders with experience, there are many different trails that offer challenge and blood-rushing adventure.
there are actually hundreds of shops and restaurants, so there is always something to do in vail.
once you know the basics of the sport, you can have an adventurous snowboardiing vacation without putting your life in danger.
there is a lot of excitement and thrill that comes with gliding down a mountain on a board, but this sport can also be dangerous if you don’t have the right snowboarding gear and knowledge.
whether you are a pro or a complete  beginner, there is a trail for you to explore in breckenridge.
if you bring all of your gear rather than renting it there, you can hit the slopes immediately without standing around in lines.
daytime snowboarding is always full of adventure, but there is nothing like the alps after dark.
these are  people who will gladly trade their flip flops in for their snowboarding boots,  jackets, and goggles.
top it all off with super friendly people and you see why so many flock to switzerland to hit the trails every year.
the tourist offices  are nicely designed and staffed, and transportation is never a problem.
if this will be your  first time on a snowboard, add the desire to learn something new to that list.
if you want to visit the best resorts for colorado snowboarding, pick  one of these.
so, check  out thesecolorado snowboarding destinations breckenridge
austria slip into a world where the modern mingles with the traditional and small  chalet villages welcome visitors with open arms.
enjoy some party time and get shuttled right to  the peaks when it is time to gear up and get serious again.
this ensures you get into the lessons soon after arriving, that way you can spend the rest of the time improving your skills.
whether you are a pro or a complete beginner, there is a trail for you to explore in breckenridge.
these are the  people who love the joys that come with the cold winter season.
preparing for a snowboarding vacation you only need two things to have a great snowboarding vacation: the perfect  location and the desire to get out there and have fun.
what is amazing about these resorts is that you step out the front door directly onto the slopes.
you can reach the daring  slopes of the alps, and there are destinations for low budget as well as  high budget snowboarding adventures.
whether you just want to snowboard or you want to pack in adventures on skis and explore other winter sports as well, you will find it all in this state.
the huge historic district is the largest in the state and comes with shopping opportunities, restaurants serving delicious food, and oxygen bars for lively entertainment.
there are some excellent resorts,  such as megeve and chamonix, where the slopes are perfect for the thrill of  snowboarding.
this hasn’t always been a hot spot for boarders,  but the amazing mountains with high altitudes have turned that around.
if you want to board in colorado, there are three destinations that are hot  for boarders.
there is another terrain  park more suitable for beginners, so you don’t have to jump into the big  leagues right away.
these are people who will gladly trade their flip flops in for their snowboarding boots, jackets, and goggles.
some of the best resorts include: colorado is another big state for snowboarders.
every year, snowboarders head to northern spain to hit the trails of the  pyrenees.
if you want to stay away from conflict and go where you are  welcome, it is important to identify trails suitable for snowboarders.
they offer quite a few runs just for beginners, plus a school with more than 800 instructors who speak a variety of languages.
switzerland from the stunning views of the alps to the amazing runs and top notch accommodations for visitors, you cannot find a better place to snowboard than switzerland.
for the tricksters in the pack, there are three terrain parks, such as freeway superpark.
you can find resorts all across the state and many are perfectly suited for planning a snowboarding vacation.
this is one of the largest and most reputable ski resorts in the country  and it happens to be perfect for those just exploring snowboarding.
italy high altitude snowboarders with a true desire to feel their blood pump are  now turning to italy.
those who know what they are doing and want to turn some tricks, there is a terrain park as well.