the resort's proximity to salzburg, with transfers in less than an hour, is another plus point.
jan any february 13 -->
abta bonded travel agent no l9364.
in werfenweng's case, the onus is on 'soft mobility' - if you are driving  to resort you have the option to hand over your car keys on arrival and use the  resort's taxi service or carbon-neutral vehicle rentals, along with bikes and  foot paths to get around.
the family resort werfenweng operates a children's club.
now: 0800 044 3523 - contact us - site map - faqs - how do i book - customer service our phone lines on 0800 044 3523 are open 8.30am - 10.00pm monday - saturday; 9.00am - 10.00pm on sunday (uk time).
apres ski and dining out+ werfenweng's après ski scene is  generally quiet with a few dozen venues scattered widely around the area, most  of them within hotels.
rauris --> saalbach --> scheffau --> schladming --> seefeld --> solden --> soll --> st anton --> st wolfgang --> telfes -->
waidring --> werfenweng --> westendorf --> zell am see --> zell am ziller --> zurs - airport any airport any northern irish any midlands
the relaxed  atmosphere of the resort makes it an all-round good choice for your first try  at skiing!
with no real black runs werfenweng's attractions for advanced skiers are rather limited on the piste itself.
werfenweng is a small community in salzburgerland above the larger village of werfen, which is in the valley below.
for dining - which ranges from pizza to  mountain favourites such as fondue - the wenger alpenhof or barbarhof are both  recommended.
if you do stay out late, a free night bus operates until 4am to get you back to your hotel.
in recent years the village  has made a particular virtue of its eco-tourism credentials.
still more remarkable, the village boasts austria's second largest solar power system - testimony to the amount of sunshine the area enjoys!
- werfenweng resort statistics+
- skiing for beginners+ most highly rated for first timers, there are three beginner lifts at zaglau on the outskirts of the village and two different ski schools that will be pleased to teach you to ski.
the village gives equal prominence to non-mechanised snow sports, including  snowshoe hikes, toboggan runs, cross country skiing and even night time llama  treks - all provided free of charge in some holiday packages.
altogether the pass covers almost 90 resorts, offering over 700 lifts, with a  combined uplift of just under 1 million skiers per hour, serving more than  2,200km of runs spread over 970 trails - enough to keep most skiers entertained  for a week at least!
our ski experts will be happy to help.
skiing for beginners+ most highly rated for first timers, there are  three beginner lifts at zaglau on the outskirts of the village and two  different ski schools that will be pleased to teach you to ski.
salzburg: 0 minutes : 0 minutes werfenweng is a small community in salzburgerland above the  larger village of werfen, which is in the valley below.
for dining - which ranges from pizza to mountain favourites such as fondue - the wenger alpenhof or barbarhof are both recommended.
kuhtai --> lech --> maria alm --> mayrhofen --> neustift --> niederau --> oberau --> obergurgl --> obertauern --> ramsau -->
other activities and facilities at werfenweng+ most of the non-ski  activities available are outdoor, many are available free of charge (at least  for the first time during your stay).
the resort's proximity to salzburg, with transfers in  less than an hour, is another plus point.
advanced+ with no real black runs werfenweng's attractions for  advanced skiers are rather limited on the piste itself.
the village gives equal prominence to non-mechanised snow sports, including snowshoe hikes, toboggan runs, cross country skiing and even night time llama treks - all provided free of charge in some holiday packages.
please read our terms & conditions and privacy policy of sale carefully before booking.
there are small ski areas dotted around the region, which is  known collectively as tennengebirg, but most of the skiing is above werfenweng  itself, accessed by chairlift from two points above the village - these can be  reached with your free private electric car transfer to the ski lifts!
the zaglauhof and liftstuberl are among the better après ski choices.
accommodation in werfenweng
werfenweng is also a participant in the giant salzburger  skicard regional pass (also known as the salzburger superski card) which has  the widest coverage of any ski pass so far created, with 23 ski regions close  to the german border, and even the allrounder winter world indoor ski hall in  germany included, and yet other ski areas closer to werfenweng!
reset - country any country austria - resort
there are small ski areas dotted around the region, which is known collectively as tennengebirg, but most of the skiing is above werfenweng itself, accessed by chairlift from two points above the village - these can be reached with your free private electric car transfer to the ski lifts!
saving you money on your ski holiday ski holidays in werfenweng, austria suitable for: ski holidays in werfenweng - beginners | - intermediates | - advanced | - boarders | - family friendly | - glacier | - height | 1000m quick links - ski holidays to werfenweng - ski holidays to austria - home / - ski destinations / - austria / - werfenweng
- other activities and facilities at werfenweng+ most of the non-ski activities available are outdoor, many are available free of charge (at least for the first time during your stay).
- snowboarding at werfenweng+ werfenweng's jam park has a great range of features including three kickers with 4, 7 and 17m tables respectively, rails ranging from six metre straight or down rails through to a nine metre kink rail, and boxes ranging from three metre straight boxes to a 12m elephant box.
werfenweng's jam park has a great range  of features including three kickers with 4, 7 and 17m tables respectively,  rails ranging from six metre straight or down rails through to a nine metre  kink rail, and boxes ranging from three metre straight boxes to a 12m elephant  box.
altogether the pass covers almost 90 resorts, offering over 700 lifts, with a combined uplift of just under 1 million skiers per hour, serving more than 2,200km of runs spread over 970 trails - enough to keep most skiers entertained for a week at least!
the family resort werfenweng has a  spa, sauna, indoor-outdoor pool and solarium, and offers massage treatments.
all holidays listed on this web site are subject to availability at the time of booking.
any south west any scottish any london any north west any north east belfast birmingham bristol east midlands edinburgh gatwick glasgow luton manchester newcastle stansted - departure date any date any december 12 --> sat 22nd
the zaglauhof and liftstuberl are among the better  après ski choices.
it is a member of the alpine pearls organisation - an association of ski resorts across six countries in the alps which jointly promote environmentally friendly travel.
the huge solar power facility means werfenweng is  virtually self-sufficient in green energy with 260 households powered by the  system.
should the holiday you have requested not be available our travel consultant will offer you an alternative.
ski holidays in werfenweng suitable for families+ a very relaxed  place for a family holiday with lift ticket prices at the lower end of the  scale, particularly for children, who pay half price until around age 16.
- apres ski and dining out+ werfenweng's après ski scene is generally quiet with a few dozen venues scattered widely around the area, most of them within hotels.
£945 - new year 2012 - 2013 £1025 - half term 2013 £958 other ski resorts in austria alpbach £289 axamer lizum £349 bad gastein £415 bad hofgastein £469 ellmau £359
£629 werfenweng skiing price list - december 2012 £945 - january 2013 £629 - february 2013
slope direction very easy runs 0 easy runs 9 medium runs 19 difficult runs 0 toughest run name skiable vertical 836m number of lifts 10 top lift height 1836m night skiing n
intermediate skiing+ intermediates will get the most from the local  skiing above werfenweng with the majority of this small ski area's terrain best  suited to them.
however ski touring is  the most popular choice for advanced skiers in the region, with several high  altitude routes available above the resort around the schaibling, eiskogel and  bleikogel peaks, which again the local ski schools will be happy to take you to.
in recent years the village has made a particular virtue of its eco-tourism credentials.
any resort austria -> ski welt -> ski circus -> artiberg circus -> zillertal valley --> alpbach --> axamer lizum --> bad gastein --> bad hofgastein --> ellmau --> fieberbrunn --> filzmoos --> finkenberg --> fulpmes --> galtur --> hinterglemm --> hochgurgl --> hopfgarten --> igls --> ischgl --> kaprun --> katschberg --> kirchberg --> kirchdorf --> kitzbuhel -->
accommodation in werfenweng - hotels - hotel werfenweng fr.
there's also a boarder cross course, a natural half pipe, a wall spine and extensive freeriding terrain.
the 800m plus vertical is quite respectable and there are some lovely long reds up to 4.5km (just under three miles) long back down to the village.
children five and older can join regular ski school  classes with learn-to-board from age seven.
there's also a boarder cross course, a natural half pipe, a wall spine and  extensive freeriding terrain.
there is also a local ski museum.
the resort has a llama farm which organises torch-lit night-time treks once per week.
you can enjoy ice skating, toboggan runs, a sleigh ride, snowshoeing and more than 40km of cross country trails for all ability levels.
the relaxed atmosphere of the resort makes it an all-round good choice for your first try at skiing!
- intermediate skiing+ intermediates will get the most from the local skiing above werfenweng with the majority of this small ski area's terrain best suited to them.
most of the ski runs are cut through the thickly forested slopes above the resort, so heading in to the trees with a guide is always an option.
the huge solar power facility means werfenweng is virtually self-sufficient in green energy with 260 households powered by the system.
both of the  resort's ski schools pro werfenweng and illmer offer ski kindergarten for  children aged four and older children aged three or four can opt for  four hour "ski and play" sessions which combine two hours on the  slopes with two hours play.
you can enjoy ice skating, toboggan runs,  a sleigh ride, snowshoeing and more than 40km of cross country trails for all  ability levels.
both of the resort's ski schools pro werfenweng and illmer offer ski kindergarten for children aged four and older children aged three or four can opt for four hour "ski and play" sessions which combine two hours on the slopes with two hours play.
the resort has a llama farm which organises torch-lit  night-time treks once per week.
snowboarding parks 1 half pipes 1 swimming pools 3 night clubs 0 mountain restaurants 5 - werfenweng transfer times+ salzburg: 0 minutes : 0 minutes both the village and the ski area are quite small and will appeal most of all to people looking for a beautiful, unspoilt, quiet village that's off the beaten track for most skiing brits.
werfenweng is also a participant in the giant salzburger skicard regional pass (also known as the salzburger superski card) which has the widest coverage of any ski pass so far created, with 23 ski regions close to the german border, and even the allrounder winter world indoor ski hall in germany included, and yet other ski areas closer to werfenweng!
£699 - march 2013 £699 - christmas 2012
still more remarkable, the village boasts  austria's second largest solar power system - testimony to the amount of  sunshine the area enjoys!
it is a member of  the alpine pearls organisation - an association of ski resorts across six  countries in the alps which jointly promote environmentally friendly travel.
snowboarding at werfenweng+
both the  village and the ski area are quite small and will appeal most of all to people  looking for a beautiful, unspoilt, quiet village that's off the beaten track  for most skiing brits.
any march 13 --> sat 2nd
the family resort werfenweng has a spa, sauna, indoor-outdoor pool and solarium, and offers massage treatments.
mar - board basis any board basis full board - duration any duration 7 nights - number of people any group size 1 person 2 people 3 people 4 people 5 people 6 people 7 people 8 people 9 people 10 people 11 people
most of the ski runs  are cut through the thickly forested slopes above the resort, so heading in to  the trees with a guide is always an option.
dec any january 13 --> sat 5th jan --> sat 12th
the 800m plus vertical is quite respectable and there are some  lovely long reds up to 4.5km (just under three miles) long back down to the  village.
in werfenweng's case, the onus is on 'soft mobility' - if you are driving to resort you have the option to hand over your car keys on arrival and use the resort's taxi service or carbon-neutral vehicle rentals, along with bikes and foot paths to get around.
children five and older can join regular ski school classes with learn-to-board from age seven.
however ski touring is the most popular choice for advanced skiers in the region, with several high altitude routes available above the resort around the schaibling, eiskogel and bleikogel peaks, which again the local ski schools will be happy to take you to.
if you do stay out late, a free night bus operates until  4am to get you back to your hotel.
- ski holidays in werfenweng suitable for families+ a very relaxed place for a family holiday with lift ticket prices at the lower end of the scale, particularly for children, who pay half price until around age 16.
fieberbrunn £525 filzmoos £354 finkenberg £489 fulpmes £489 galtur £545 hinterglemm £449 hochgurgl £794 hopfgarten £495 igls £357 ischgl £545 kaprun £275 katschberg £665 kirchberg £475 kirchdorf £319 kitzbuhel £335 kuhtai £679 lech £502 maria alm £339 mayrhofen £279 neustift £485 niederau £209 oberau £389 obergurgl £514 obertauern £545 ramsau £515 rauris £214 saalbach £299 scheffau £419 schladming £425 seefeld £344 solden £398 soll £295 st anton £480 st wolfgang £335 telfes £613 waidring £665 westendorf £394 zell am see £359 zell am ziller £415 zurs £819 cheap ski holidays to werfenweng - hotel werfenweng, werfenweng 12/01/13 - gatwick - 7nts £629 - hotel werfenweng, werfenweng 12/01/13 - gatwick - 7nts £629 - home - ski deals - groups - ski resorts - ski holiday guides - snowboarding - newsletter - ski news - blog - snow reports - powderhound new - andorra - austria - bulgaria - canada - finland - france - italy - japan - norway - romania - serbia - slovenia - spain - sweden - switzerland - usa call free: 0800 044 3523 or email: sales@fasttrackski.co.uk mon to sat: 8.30am - 10.00pm sun: 9.00am - 10.00pm - - ski destinations - andorra - austria - bulgaria - canada - finland - france - italy - japan - norway - romania - serbia - slovenia - spain - sweden - switzerland - usa - - ski holiday guides - cheap ski holidays - group ski holidays - single ski holidays - santa claus holidays - skiing before christmas - christmas ski holidays - new year ski holidays - easter ski holidays - popular ski resorts - ski operators - ski holiday accommodation - ski chalet holidays - snow reports - - ski deals - ski holiday search - newsletter subscription - fast track ski twitter - - about fast track ski - terms & conditions - privacy policy - holiday extras can't find what you're looking for?