after completing your transaction at the ski school desk, you may proceed to the rental shop.
once again, avoid cotton.
coats/jackets  and snow pants that are waterproof and breathable provide protection from  wetness on the outside, while allowing moisture from the inside to escape.
you need  your ears to hear others who are around you, including the areas you cannot  always see.
feel free to bring an extra change of  clothes; especially hats, gloves, and socks.
view details day lockers and seasonal lockers are available.
you will improve the most  when you receive some guidance.
the sport involves some inherent risks.
hats that cover your ears are recommended.
to  check out what you should wear, see "what should i wear" in the faqs.
you'll see it posted at many resorts to  remind you of the seven, simple safety guidelines of your responsibility code: 1.
if your child is under the age of 5, its important  to recognize that walking in their ski boots and making straight glides are big  accomplishments.
- what should i wear?
wicking fabrics include synthetics, such as polypropylene.
both cases will require documentation from your doctor or employer.
remember that even veteran skiers and riders can improve their skills and enjoy the mountain experience better with coachings from a professional.
the best way to avoid a collision is to follow the seven steps of your responsibility code.
if you are renting skis you will need to know the skier type, which  can be found by viewing the skier ability chart.
if your child is under the age of 5, its important to recognize that walking in their ski boots and making straight glides are big accomplishments.
%u2018wicking%u2019 fabrics move sweat away from your skin  to the outer surface of the fabric, where it evaporates.
this can cause the chair you are in and those around  you to derail.
coats/jackets and snow pants that are waterproof and breathable provide protection from wetness on the outside, while allowing moisture from the inside to escape.
such and event can cause serious injury or death.
to help reduce cost you can purchase your lesson,  ski pass, and rental equipment in a package.
- can i get a refund on my season pass?
whenever starting downhill or  merging into a trail, look uphill and yield to others.
some things to remember about boot fit: - boots are supposed to fit like a firm handshake, and your toes are supposed to touch the front of boot when you stand up.
at the ski school desk, in the lower level of the lodge, you can sign up and pay for your lessons, your lift ticket, and rental all in one transaction.
remember, skiing and snowboarding  require a mental and physical presence.
check out  www.terrainparksafety.org for information on how to get the most out of your  park experience safely for you and those around you.
helmets do have their limits and users need to be aware of them.
many styles of leashes can be found at your local board shop and also in our alpine shop in the lodge.
- how do i sign up for a lesson and get rental  equipment?
to learn more about  helmet safety, check outlids on kids, by following this link.
the second reason against borrowing is that the equipment may not fit.
if you are renting a snowboard you will need to know  if the person rides with their left or right foot forward (the rental techs can  help you determine this if you are unsure).
you may also be surprised at how many expensive boards we find in bushes, far from the edge of any runs, when the snow melts in spring.
we shoot to open around thanksgiving but will certainly open earlier if we can.
the decision to transfer a season pass will be made on a  case-by-case basis.
park, where music is often provided for skiers and boarders.
once you have paid the cashier they will validate your rental form, which  you will hand to the next available technician as you proceed into the boot  fitting area.
in fact, rental technicians cannot adjust many old bindings because manufacturers will no longer indemnify the equipment.
women generally have poorer circulation than men, making it harder to keep their hands and feet warm.
after a few lessons you'll be enjoying a wider range of our winter slopes.
please feel free to view the full responsibility code, smart style and the tips for safety and mountain etiquette, by clicking on these links.
at the ski school desk, you will complete a lesson registration/liability release and equipment rental form if you are renting.
remember that even  veteran skiers and riders can improve their skills and enjoy the mountain  experience better with coachings from a professional.
this is a  great way to meet people!
always stay in control, and be able to stop or avoid other people or objects.
when entering any lift line, be sure that you are attentive and ready to follow the line and load properly.
children under the age of 5 often remain on the beginner slope for most, if not all, of their first day.
if you are skiing or boarding alone, check the line for single riders so you can be paired with other riders.
however, a helmet can make a difference in reducing or preventing injury, and many skiers and snowboarders today are choosing to wear them.
be careful not to become dehydrated.
obtain the  appropriate ski/snowboard attire, and be prepared for changes in weather.
winter policy the ski area has determined that the use of any power-driven devices or vehicles by the public, including other power-driven mobility devices used by individuals with mobility disabilities, would conflict with the ski areas safety requirements necessary for the reasonably safe operation of our on-slope activities.
in addition  to eye protection, we also recommend sunscreen to protect your skin.
ski or  ride with a buddy especially if using remote runs or glades where there is  minimal traffic.
if you're registering children for their first ski lesson its important to set realistic expectations.
be aware of the snow conditions and how they can change.
at the ski school desk, in the lower level of the lodge, you can sign up and  pay for your lessons, your lift ticket, and rental all in one transaction.
visit  http://www.treewelldeepsnowsafety.com/ for detailed info on how to avoid and  deal with entrapment in tree wells.
however,  lessons are available for younger children as well.
fill them out before you approach the rental desk.
you will need to know the age, height, weight, and shoe size for each person renting equipment.
doing so reduces the overall cost  of your day.
picture id will be required.
it may take two, three - maybe four lessons to have a solid grasp of  the sport.
even if your  friend is the same size as you, you should avoid borrowing their equipment.
these safety concerns include the use of devices on the slopes that expose the user and skiers/snowboarders to a safety hazard; collisions with downhill skiers and snowboarders; and the use of devices that may provide access into closed areas that pose avalanche hazards.
this is a great way to meet people!
most children under the age of 5 are not yet capable of the necessary motor skills required to achieve speed control and braking movement patterns.
do your part, burn a board or a pair of skis  in sacrifice to ullr and think snow!
nearly every professional ski and snowboard association, and most state  laws, endorse your responsibility code.
stop before you become fatigued and, most of all have fun.
a person who has a disability is allowed to  utilize any specialized equipment that has been designed and manufactured  solely for use by individuals who have disabilities, for example mono skis, bi  skis, outriggers, and sit-skis, in accordance with the american with  disabilities act (ada) 28 cfr 36.302 (b)(2)(a)(ii) requirements concerning  reasonable modifications in rules, practices, or procedures, unless the entity  can demonstrate that making such modifications would be a adaptive equipment  that meets this definition when requested by individuals wanting to enjoy  winter sports at the 49° north ski area
cooperation of the weather gods is the key.
the best way to become a good skier or snowboarder is to take a lesson from a qualified instructor.
these are located at the entryway to the ski rental shop.
the key to successful skiing/snowboarding is control.
view details the key to keeping comfortable throughout your day is dressing in layers and wearing the right fabrics.
advance reservations are highly recommended for all lesson and daycare programs.
however, they are challenging and require physical skills that are only learned over time with practice.
skiing and snowboarding do not mix with alcohol or drugs.
riders may be knocked around or thrown from their chair, leading  to serious injury.
the first reason is that many skis and bindings may be outdated, and no longer  safe for you to use.
however, your toes should not feel jammed into the front of the boot.
once you have paid the cashier they will validate your rental form, which you will hand to the next available technician as you proceed into the boot fitting area.
as good a skier as your friend may be, it's best to let them ski their favorite runs while you enroll in a lesson from a professional ski or snowboard instructor.
boarders also must attach a leash to their body while hiking with their board.
the all-important warm-up run prepares you mentally and physically for the day ahead.
prior to using any lift, you must have the knowledge and ability to load, ride and unload safely.
hands you will be best off if you wear a pair  of gloves or mittens that can provide you with good insulation and moisture  protection.
goggles will help keep your vision clear on snowy days.
they can ensure that it is in good working order, and properly adjusted  for you.
if you don't sign up in advance we may not be able to accommodate you when you arrive.
feel free to bring an extra change of clothes; especially hats, gloves, and socks.
observe all posted signs and warnings.
to learn more about the rental process and how equipment should  fit please follow this link, or scroll down to the next question.
after you have been properly fitted for your equipment, you should proceed to the lesson meeting area designated by your ski school desk cashier.
these safety  requirements are based on actual risks and are not intended to be  discriminatory in any way.
for additional information on ski/snowboarder safety, check out the facts about skiing/snowboarder safety on nsaa's safety web page.
these safety concerns are  compounded by our facilities high volume of trail use.
the ski area shall ask a person using another power-driven mobility device to provide a credible assurance that the mobility device is required because of the person´s disability.
this can cut off circulation to your feet, making them cold.
whenever starting downhill or merging into a trail, look uphill and yield to others.
if you don't sign up in advance we may not be able to  accommodate you when you arrive.
do not bounce or swing in  the chair you are riding.
remember to sit back all the way in your chair.
lodge space is limited, so please be courteous to others.
transfers may be made in special cases, such as serious injury or moving over 200 miles due to employment related reasons.
remember to sit back all the way in your  chair.
remember, skiing and snowboarding require a mental and physical presence.
however, a helmet can make a difference in reducing or preventing injury, and  many skiers and snowboarders today are choosing to wear them.
sizing equipment depends on many other factors besides your physical  similarities.
make sure  you're clear on its location before you leave the desk, otherwise, a rental  technician should be able to help you find your way.
however, they are challenging and require physical skills that are only learned  over time with practice.
as conditions change, different  techniques are required.
don't expect too much from yourself after just one lesson.
engaging in such activities can result in revocation of your pass and possible legal action.
the amount of enjoyment you get out of a sport is  directly related to your proficiency.
many guests  often place their belongings in the lodge under the tables.
it is common for injuries to happen when people decide to take one last run.
these safety requirements are based on actual risks and are not intended to be discriminatory in any way.
imagine a snowboard that gets  dropped in the terrain park and speeds toward the lift line.
this is why snowboards must have a safety leash that attaches to its user, both while they are on the lift and riding.
you must not stop where you obstruct a trail, or are not visible from above.
boarders also must attach a leash to their body  while hiking with their board.
view details tuning into your favorite music while your cruising down the slopes can be a very enjoyable part of your mountain experience.
after  completing your transaction at the ski school desk, you may proceed to the  rental shop.
the three points to smart style are great guidelines.
respect  gets respect from the lift line through the park.
skis have brakes built into the binding system to prevent runaway equipment, but snowboards do not.
always use devices to help prevent runaway equipment.
you can also call in your lesson request at 509.935.6649 ext.
do your part, burn a board or a pair of skis in sacrifice to ullr and think snow!
ski or ride with a buddy especially if using remote runs or glades where there is minimal traffic.
view  details properly using a helmet can reduce the risk of serious head  injuries.
tips for hitting the slopes 4.
winter policy the ski area has determined that the use of any power-driven devices or  vehicles by the public, including other power-driven mobility devices used by  individuals with mobility disabilities, would conflict with the ski areas  safety requirements necessary for the reasonably safe operation of our on-slope  activities.
the amount of enjoyment you get out of a sport is directly related to your proficiency.
see how to sign up by following this link to our ski school web page.
appropriate equipment should take into consideration skill level and preferred style.
there are  three layers you will need to consider for both top and bottom; the wicking  layer, insulation layer, and the shell layer.
to learn more about helmet safety, check outlids on kids, by following this link.
you can also try a facemask to keep your face warm.
we discourage borrowing equipment for two reasons.
visit http://www.treewelldeepsnowsafety.com/ for detailed info on how to avoid and deal with entrapment in tree wells.
%u2018wicking%u2019 fabrics move sweat away from your skin to the outer surface of the fabric, where it evaporates.
doing so reduces the overall cost of your day.
nearly every professional ski and snowboard association, and most state laws, endorse your responsibility code.
however, your toes  should not feel jammed into the front of the boot.
- do i need to wear a helmet?
before heading up to the mountain you should also be prepared to properly equip your feet, hands, head, eyes, and skin.
be aware of the  snow conditions and how they can change.
remember to  allow an hour for this process so you can make it to your lesson on time.
we manicure our slopes during the summer months so we can open with great conditions with a minimum of snow.
the ski area has determined that while the use of  segways by individuals with mobility disabilities, on trails are permitted, the  use of atvs, golf carts or pickup trucks by the public is not permitted.
contact  the ticket office for specific details.
look before you leap scope around the jumps first, not over them.
this can lead to getting lost and incurring serious injury and/or costly search and rescue fees.
many guests often place their belongings in the lodge under the tables.
while injuries are always possible, wearing outdated or ill-fitting or  inappropriate equipment also increases your chance of injury.
these fabrics keep your skin dry, and therefore warmer.
the ski area has determined that while the use of segways by individuals with mobility disabilities, on trails are permitted, the use of atvs, golf carts or pickup trucks by the public is not permitted.
also, avoid tucking thick pants into your boots.
please avoid borrowing equipment.
you can wear goggles  or sunglasses, depending on the weather.
we only offer private lessons for children under age 5.
view details opening day is much anticipated.
- why shouldn't i let my friends teach me how to ski/ride?
if you are renting skis you will need to know the skier type, which can be found by viewing the skier ability chart.
most children under the age of 5 are not yet capable  of the necessary motor skills required to achieve speed control and braking  movement patterns.
if you are renting a snowboard you will need to know if the person rides with their left or right foot forward (the rental techs can help you determine this if you are unsure).
always stay in control, and be able to stop or avoid other people or  objects.
in the absence of such documents, the ski area shall allow the use of another  power-driven mobility device if the individual states that the device is being  used for a mobility disability.
imagine a snowboard that gets dropped in the terrain park and speeds toward the lift line.
learn to ski and snowboard smoothly and in  control.
our instructors are extensively trained, and their job is to teach newcomers the fundamentals of skiing and boarding %u2014 allowing you to build a strong foundation.
listening to music may be gratifying, but it impairs your hearing and attention.
summer policy the use of any  power driven devices or vehicles by the public, including other power driven  mobility devices used by individuals with mobility disabilities, that were not  primarily designed for use by individuals with disabilities, creates a  substantial risk of serious harm to the immediate environment and natural  resources.
some people prefer using  mittens to gloves.
we often see skiers and boarders
we recommend wearing a thin pair of synthetic or wool socks.
use of adaptive devices the ski area allows the use of adaptive devices  or other manually-powered mobility aids designed for use on the slopes.
there is no excuse to not having a leash.
this includes: staying in control, stopping in a safe place for you and others, and when starting downhill or merging, look uphill and yield.
the next layer should  act as an insulator in keeping your body warm.
prior to  using any lift, you must have the knowledge and ability to load, ride and  unload safely.
once a pass is issued, they cannot be transferred.
you can find lift,  rental and lesson rates on our website at ski49n.com or in our 49°n  brochure.
as an alternative we recommend spending some time in the terrain
- how do i sign up for a lesson and get rental equipment?
use fabrics made of wool, polyester, polypropylene  or other synthetic materials.
learn to ski and snowboard smoothly and in control.
in fact, rental technicians cannot adjust many old  bindings because manufacturers will no longer indemnify the equipment.
skier ability charts are  posted in the rental shop.
there are three layers you will need to consider for both top and bottom; the wicking layer, insulation layer, and the shell layer.
depending on their individual muscle control and development, skiing and snowboarding can be difficult for them to master in their first days.
lessons and rentals - the rental process and how equipment should  fit view details before you can rent your equipment we will need  you to fill out a rental form.
you'll enjoy skiing more if you're physically fit.
know your landings are clear  and clear yourself out of the landing area.
tips for on the slopes 7.
http://www.nsaa.org/nsaa/press/facts-ski-snbd-safety.asp and the national ski safety initiative http://www.nsc.org/skisafe.htm general - equipment use policy view details ski area - ski equipment use policy november 22, 2011 when operated in accordance with the rules and regulations of the 49° north ski area, ski equipment is allowed, with the exception of ski bikes (and any other prohibited equipment) which is prohibited at 49° north ski area due to safety concerns.
obtain the appropriate ski/snowboard attire, and be prepared for changes in weather.
it start small and work your way up.
trying to take newcomers on terrain that they are not ready for.
for  instance, you can't control the weather, or others on the mountain around you.
children under the age of 5 often remain on the beginner slope  for most, if not all, of their first day.
- your responsibility code view details whether you ski, snowboard or telemark, you need to know "the rules  of the road" so that you and everyone around you will have a safe, fun  day.
shell layer your shell layer should protect you, and your inside layers, from becoming wet.
doing so can cause boots  to fit incorrectly and cut off circulation, inhibiting performance and causing  cold feet.
both cases will require documentation from your  doctor or employer.
any evidence to the contrary may be evaluated  and acted upon by the ski area.
a  rental technician will assist you in selecting the correct equipment for your  height.
state law enforces this code (rcw 79a.45.030).
ear warmers are a convenient alternative to hats on warmer days, but they don%u2019t prevent the escape of body heat from the head.
wicking layer the first layer you want to put on is  the wicking layer.
please keep  tables clear when you are not using them.
keep in mind, if you lose control and hit a tree, an object, or another skier at moderate or high speed, a helmet may not prevent or reduce a serious injury.
to check out what you should wear, see "what should i wear" in the faqs.
children age 5 - 11 can enroll into group lessons, but may also take private lessons.
you must not stop where you obstruct a  trail, or are not visible from above.
even if your friend is the same size as you, you should avoid borrowing their equipment.
depending on their individual muscle  control and development, skiing and snowboarding can be difficult for them to  master in their first days.
skis have brakes built into the binding  system to prevent runaway equipment, but snowboards do not.
some people prefer using mittens to gloves.
the most important thing to remember is that their first taste of skiing needs to be positive, non-threatening and fun.
not only can this cause the chairlifts to bounce, but you may also lose your equipment, resulting in an injury to someone below you.
goggles are recommended over sunglasses.
forest service designation in the colville  national forest travel management plan as shown on the motor vehicle use map  colville national forest southwest area february 1, 2010 reflect a policy of no  motorized use on the ski area special use permit as indicated through  administrative closure orders.
never  ride in closed areas or out-of-bounds.
you can also call in your lesson request at  509.935.6649 ext.
keep a positive attitude and have fun!
- terrain park safety view details the terrain park offers challenging fun and excitement.
the decision to transfer a season pass will be made on a case-by-case basis.
use of adaptive devices the ski area allows the use of adaptive devices or other manually-powered mobility aids designed for use on the slopes.
head about 80% of body heat is lost though the head, so hats are very important.
these safety concerns are compounded by our facilities high volume of trail use.
the three points to smart  style are great guidelines.
at the ski school desk, you will complete a lesson  registration/liability release and equipment rental form if you are renting.
clothing and equipment - are snowboard leashes required?
obtain proper equipment.
however, even if it isn%u2019t snowing, you should still  wear sunglasses or goggles to protect your eyes from uv and wind.
we  recommend wearing a thin pair of synthetic or wool socks.
view details as good a skier as your friend may be,  it's best to let them ski their favorite runs while you enroll in a lesson from  a professional ski or snowboard instructor.
many injuries occur when people overextend themselves.
contact the ticket office for specific details.
the first reason is that many skis and bindings may be outdated, and no longer safe for you to use.
helmets are  designed to reduce the severity of head injuries, but they are most effective  at providing protection from a direct blow to the head at speeds of 12 mph or  slower.
though lessons are an additional expense, the cost is well worth avoiding the strain on your friendship.
the next layer should act as an insulator in keeping your body warm.
eyewear the final addition for your head would be uv and wind protection for your eyes.
adaptive devices are any specialized equipment that has been designed and  manufactured primarily for use by individuals who have disabilities, including  without limitation mono skis, bi skis, outriggers and sit-skis.
view details properly using a helmet can reduce the risk of serious head injuries.
uv exposure is increased in a mountain environment due to altitude and reflection off of the snow.
skiing and snowboarding do not mix with alcohol  or drugs.
follow your responsibility code,the seven safety rules of the slopes.
we are lucky to have grass all the way to our summit and very few rocks.
a person who has a disability is allowed to utilize any specialized equipment that has been designed and manufactured solely for use by individuals who have disabilities, for example mono skis, bi skis, outriggers, and sit-skis, in accordance with the american with disabilities act (ada) 28 cfr 36.302 (b)(2)(a)(ii) requirements concerning reasonable modifications in rules, practices, or procedures, unless the entity can demonstrate that making such modifications would be a adaptive equipment that meets this definition when requested by individuals wanting to enjoy winter sports at the 49° north ski area - motorized use policy view details motorized use policy 49° north ski area use of mobility devices the ski area allows individuals with mobility disabilities to use wheelchairs and manually-powered mobility aids, such as walkers, crutches, canes, braces, or other similar devices designed for use by individuals with mobility disabilities in areas open to pedestrian use.
when entering any lift line, be sure that you are attentive and ready to  follow the line and load properly.
this can cut off circulation to your feet, making them  cold.
having a fresh set for after lunch can prolong your day, and help you further enjoy your mountain experience.
always use  devices to help prevent runaway equipment.
be aware that following this trend can result in stolen or lost possessions.
such and event can  cause serious injury or death.
listening  to music may be gratifying, but it impairs your hearing and attention.
for instance, you can't control the weather, or others on the mountain around you.
this includes: staying in control, stopping in a safe place for you and others,  and when starting downhill or merging, look uphill and yield.
it may take two, three - maybe four lessons to have a solid grasp of the sport.
this can cause the chair you are in and those around you to derail.
while injuries are always possible, wearing outdated or ill-fitting or inappropriate equipment also increases your chance of injury.
view details lesson information for beginners, group lessons, private lessons, and multi-week lesson packages can be found by clicking on the appropriate link.
this is why  snowboards must have a safety leash that attaches to its user, both while they  are on the lift and riding.
(if  you go to the lift ticket window first and then need to enroll in a lesson,  you'll end up waiting in two lines versus one.)
you will need  to know the age, height, weight, and shoe size for each person renting  equipment.
doing so can cause boots to fit incorrectly and cut off circulation, inhibiting performance and causing cold feet.
after you have been properly fitted for your equipment, you should proceed to  the lesson meeting area designated by your ski school desk cashier.
view details lesson information for beginners, group  lessons, private lessons, and multi-week lesson packages can be found by  clicking on the appropriate link.
its important that the user doesn't think that they can take more risks  because they're wearing a helmet and therefore will be more protected.
eyewear the final addition for  your head would be uv and wind protection for your eyes.
riders may be knocked around or thrown from their chair, leading to serious injury.
also, avoid banging your skis together while on the lift.
skier ability charts are posted in the rental shop.
it  is best to complete these forms before you reach the cashier.
transfers may be made in  special cases, such as serious injury or moving over 200 miles due to  employment related reasons.
its important that the user doesn't think that they can take more risks because they're wearing a helmet and therefore will be more protected.
it is your  responsibility to avoid them.
- why shouldn't i let my friends teach me how  to ski/ride?
use of these devices by the public would pose safety hazards to individuals using the trails for mountain biking and hiking given the size, weight, dimensions, and speed of these devices; the potential for collisions with other visitors; the high volume of traffic on the trails; and the substantial risk of serious impacts to natural resources caused by these vehicles.
as an alternative we recommend spending some time in the terrain park, where music is often provided for skiers and boarders.
it is also important to obey signs designating slow zones and intersecting areas.
one pair of light- to medium-weight ski specific wool socks will keep you  warmer than three pairs of cotton, orange hunting socks.
don't try to ski yourself into shape.
ski49n frequently asked questions lessons and rentals - the rental process and how equipment should fit view details before you can rent your equipment we will need you to fill out a rental form.
be sure to have  your ski or snowboard bindings adjusted correctly at a local ski shop.
avoid wearing thick  socks or layering socks.
you'll enjoy skiing  more if you're physically fit.
to learn more about the damaging affects of the sun%u2019s uv  rays, and how to protect yourself from them, check out go sun smart at http://www.gosunsmart.org/. safety - tips for safety and mountain etiquette view details ski lift safety 1.
the  all-important warm-up run prepares you mentally and physically for the day  ahead.
it is your responsibility to avoid them.
the key to successful  skiing/snowboarding is control.
remember to allow an hour for this process so you can make it to your lesson on time.
be sure to have your ski or snowboard bindings adjusted correctly at a local ski shop.
if you  don't have your own equipment, you may rent ski or snowboarding equipment from  our ski rental shop.
hands you will be best off if you wear a pair of gloves or mittens that can provide you with good insulation and moisture protection.
avoid cotton as it looses its insulating properties when it becomes wet.
in the absence of such documents, the ski area shall allow the use of another power-driven mobility device if the individual states that the device is being used for a mobility disability.
we are not able to allow you to board a chair lift without the proper devices  to prevent runaway equipment.
view details we discourage borrowing equipment for two reasons.
this is  known as a false sense of security.
a lesson from a professional instructor ensures that you'll learn the proper methods of the sport in a time-proven progression.
feet ski and snowboarding boots already include insulation, so you will not need to put on several layers of socks to keep warm.
you'll see it posted at many resorts to remind you of the seven, simple safety guidelines of your responsibility code: 1.
buying or renting equipment that is suited for your size and abilities will enhance your comfort, and provide you with a safer and better experience on the mountain.
appropriate equipment should take into consideration skill level  and preferred style.
a lesson from a  professional instructor ensures that you'll learn the proper methods of the  sport in a time-proven progression.
make sure you're clear on its location before you leave the desk, otherwise, a rental technician should be able to help you find your way.
if you are tired, take a break.
many styles of leashes  can be found at your local board shop and also in our alpine shop in the lodge.
as conditions change, different techniques are required.
use fabrics made of wool, polyester, polypropylene or other synthetic materials.
sizing equipment depends on many other factors besides your physical similarities.
if you  do use borrowed equipment, we recommend having the equipment thoroughly checked  by your local equipment retailer and service shop prior to your trip to the  slopes.
- motorized use policy view details motorized use policy 49° north ski area use of  mobility devices the ski area allows individuals with mobility  disabilities to use wheelchairs and manually-powered mobility aids, such as  walkers, crutches, canes, braces, or other similar devices designed for use by  individuals with mobility disabilities in areas open to pedestrian use.
we  are lucky to have grass all the way to our summit and very few rocks.
women generally have poorer circulation than men,  making it harder to keep their hands and feet warm.
- where can i store my belongings?
advance reservations are  highly recommended for all lesson and daycare programs.
fabrics such as fleece, wool, and down or other synthetic materials are good choices for your insulating layer.
ear warmers are a convenient  alternative to hats on warmer days, but they don%u2019t prevent the escape of  body heat from the head.
you can find lift, rental and lesson rates on our website at ski49n.com or in our 49°n brochure.
it is best to complete these forms before you reach the cashier.
be aware of the dangers of tree wells.
these safety concerns include the use of devices on the slopes that  expose the user and skiers/snowboarders to a safety hazard; collisions with  downhill skiers and snowboarders; and the use of devices that may provide  access into closed areas that pose avalanche hazards.
if you're  registering children for their first ski lesson its important to set realistic  expectations.
view  details your responsibility code states,"always use devices to help  prevent runaway equipment".
keep in mind, if you lose control and hit a tree, an object, or another  skier at moderate or high speed, a helmet may not prevent or reduce a serious  injury.
adaptive devices are any specialized equipment that has been designed and manufactured primarily for use by individuals who have disabilities, including without limitation mono skis, bi skis, outriggers and sit-skis.
don't expect too much from yourself after just one  lesson.
the  ski area shall ask a person using another power-driven mobility device to  provide a credible assurance that the mobility device is required because of  the person´s disability.
to have it, you must be aware of your technique, the terrain and the skiers/snowboarders around you.
due to the need to address soil integrity, erosion and vegetative  concerns, the ski area has adopted a motorized policy for the public during the  summer season.
do not bounce or swing in the chair you are riding.
(inverted aerials not allowed).
they can ensure that it is in good working order, and properly adjusted for you.
bringing a scarf or a neck warmer is a smart choice.
head about 80% of body heat is lost  though the head, so hats are very important.
forest service designation in the colville national forest travel management plan as shown on the motor vehicle use map colville national forest southwest area february 1, 2010 reflect a policy of no motorized use on the ski area special use permit as indicated through administrative closure orders.
goggles are  recommended over sunglasses.
children age 5 - 11 can enroll into group lessons, but may also take private  lessons.
lodge space is limited, so please be  courteous to others.
for additional information on ski/snowboarder safety,  check out the facts about skiing/snowboarder safety on nsaa's safety web page.
to learn more about the damaging affects of the sun%u2019s uv rays, and how to protect yourself from them, check out go sun smart at http://www.gosunsmart.org/. safety - tips for safety and mountain etiquette view details ski lift safety 1.
avoid cotton as it looses its insulating  properties when it becomes wet.
engaging in such  activities can result in revocation of your pass and possible legal action.
summer policy the use of any power driven devices or vehicles by the public, including other power driven mobility devices used by individuals with mobility disabilities, that were not primarily designed for use by individuals with disabilities, creates a substantial risk of serious harm to the immediate environment and natural resources.
advance reservations are recommended for all  lesson programs.
(if you go to the lift ticket window first and then need to enroll in a lesson, you'll end up waiting in two lines versus one.)
protect your equipment, and protect each other.
you will improve the most when you receive some guidance.
many winter coats and snow pants include an  insulating layer, but we recommend that you bring an extra layer in case you  need additional warmth.
these fabrics keep  your skin dry, and therefore warmer.
it is common for injuries to happen when people decide to take one  last run.
before heading up to the mountain  you should also be prepared to properly equip your feet, hands, head, eyes, and  skin.
drink plenty of water.
view details the key to keeping comfortable throughout your day is dressing in layers and  wearing the right fabrics.
this can lead to getting lost and  incurring serious injury and/or costly search and rescue fees.
however, even if it isn%u2019t snowing, you should still wear sunglasses or goggles to protect your eyes from uv and wind.
- your responsibility code view details whether you ski, snowboard or telemark, you need to know "the rules of the road" so that you and everyone around you will have a safe, fun day.
be aware that  following this trend can result in stolen or lost possessions.
please keep tables clear when you are not using them.
bringing a  scarf or a neck warmer is a smart choice.
you can wear goggles or sunglasses, depending on the weather.
this is known as a false sense of security.
though lessons are an additional expense, the cost is well worth avoiding the  strain on your friendship.
if you find yourself on a slope that exceeds your ability level, always leave your skis/snowboard on and side step down the slope.
you need your ears to hear others who are around you, including the areas you cannot always see.
if its your first time skiing or snowboarding  or if you are enrolling children in our kids' ski programs, your first stop  should be the ski school desk, not the lift-ticket window or the rental shop.
from there, you will follow the line to get your skis and poles or snowboard.
see how to sign up by  following this link to our ski school web page.
fabrics such as gore-tex provide this waterproof and breathable feature.
- can i listen to music while skiing/riding?
many winter coats and snow pants include an insulating layer, but we recommend that you bring an extra layer in case you need additional warmth.
view details tuning into your favorite music while your  cruising down the slopes can be a very enjoyable part of your mountain  experience.
fabrics such as fleece, wool,  and down or other synthetic materials are good choices for your insulating  layer.
if you don't have your own equipment, you may rent ski or snowboarding equipment from our ski rental shop.
our instructors are extensively  trained, and their job is to teach newcomers the fundamentals of skiing and  boarding %u2014 allowing you to build a strong foundation.
we often see skiers and boarders trying to take newcomers on terrain that they are not ready for.
please refrain from leaning forward.
check out www.terrainparksafety.org for information on how to get the most out of your park experience safely for you and those around you.
never ride in closed areas or out-of-bounds.
follow your responsibility code,the seven safety rules of  the slopes.
the ski area accepts the presentation of a  valid, state-issued, disability parking placard or card, or other state-issued  proof of disability, as a credible assurance that the use of the other  power-driven mobility device is for the individual´s mobility disability.
- can i borrow equipment from my friends?
if its your first time skiing or snowboarding or if you are enrolling children in our kids' ski programs, your first stop should be the ski school desk, not the lift-ticket window or the rental shop.
helmets are designed to reduce the severity of head injuries, but they are most effective at providing protection from a direct blow to the head at speeds of 12 mph or slower.
contact us | employment | faqs |links | real estate copyright ©2009-2012 49° north mountain resort
be safe, and begin your run cautiously.
the  second reason against borrowing is that the equipment may not fit.
if you are skiing or boarding alone, check  the line for single riders so you can be paired with other riders.
you will also find that mittens promote the exchange of heat  between your fingers, keeping your hand warmer than if you were to wear gloves,  which separate your fingers.
hats that cover your ears are  recommended.
easy style it start  small and work your way up.
if  you are tired, take a break.
know your landings are clear and clear yourself out of the landing area.
advance reservations are recommended for all lesson programs.
having a fresh set for after lunch  can prolong your day, and help you further enjoy your mountain experience.
- teaching children to ski view details snowboard lessons for children usually start at about age 7.
you can, however, take steps to avoid accidents on the hill.
many injuries occur when people overextend  themselves.
view  details skiing and snowboarding are no more dangerous than other  high-energy participation sports, and less so than some common activities.
the user, whether wearing a helmet or not,  should always ski responsibly and within their ability.
view details skiing and snowboarding are no more dangerous than other high-energy participation sports, and less so than some common activities.
curb alcohol consumption.
feet ski and snowboarding boots already include insulation,  so you will not need to put on several layers of socks to keep warm.
view details your responsibility code states,"always use devices to help prevent runaway equipment".
avoid wearing thick socks or layering socks.
if you find yourself on a slope that exceeds your ability level,  always leave your skis/snowboard on and side step down the slope.
goggles will help keep your vision  clear on snowy days.
please feel free to view the full responsibility code,  smart style and the tips for safety and mountain etiquette, by clicking on  these links.
we  shoot to open around thanksgiving but will certainly open earlier if we can.
due to the need to address soil integrity, erosion and vegetative concerns, the ski area has adopted a motorized policy for the public during the summer season.
it is  recommended that all skiers and snowboarders share the slopes and always show  respect for others.
if you do use borrowed equipment, we recommend having the equipment thoroughly checked by your local equipment retailer and service shop prior to your trip to the slopes.
- are snow sports dangerous?
ill-fitting boots, skis, boards, and poles can make you do  more work than necessary, making play time on the hill feel more like a chore.
these are located at the entryway to the ski  rental shop.
contact us | employment | faqs  |links | real estate copyright ©2009-2012 49° north mountain resort
to learn more about the rental process and how equipment should fit please follow this link, or scroll down to the next question.
http://www.nsaa.org/nsaa/press/facts-ski-snbd-safety.asp and the national ski  safety initiative http://www.nsc.org/skisafe.htm general - equipment use policy view details ski area - ski equipment use policy november 22, 2011 when operated in accordance with the rules and regulations of the 49° north  ski area, ski equipment is allowed, with the exception of ski bikes (and any  other prohibited equipment) which is prohibited at 49° north ski area due  to safety concerns.
we are not able to allow you to board a chair lift without the proper devices to prevent runaway equipment.
we  manicure our slopes during the summer months so we can open with great  conditions with a minimum of snow.
to help reduce cost you can purchase your lesson, ski pass, and rental equipment in a package.
a rental technician will assist you in selecting the correct equipment for your height.
there are coin operated lockers available in the lodge.
but we don't recommend the use of personal sound systems.
not only can this cause the chairlifts to bounce, but you may also lose your  equipment, resulting in an injury to someone below you.
the most important thing to remember is that their first taste of  skiing needs to be positive, non-threatening and fun.
observe all posted signs and  warnings.
people ahead of you have the right of way.
keep off closed trails and out of closed areas.
ill-fitting boots, skis, boards, and poles can make you do more work than necessary, making play time on the hill feel more like a chore.
it is recommended that all skiers and snowboarders share the slopes and always show respect for others.
you will also find that mittens promote the exchange of heat between your fingers, keeping your hand warmer than if you were to wear gloves, which separate your fingers.
any evidence to the contrary may be evaluated and acted upon by the ski area.
some  things to remember about boot fit: boots are supposed to fit like a firm handshake, and your toes are  supposed to touch the front of boot when you stand up.
respect from the lift line through the park.
the user, whether wearing a helmet or not, should always ski responsibly and within their ability.
however, lessons are available for younger children as well.
this prevents a run-away board in the event they  should fall and drop their snowboard.
to have it, you must be aware of your  technique, the terrain and the skiers/snowboarders around you.
- one pair of light- to medium-weight ski specific wool socks will keep you warmer than three pairs of cotton, orange hunting socks.
the best way to become a good skier or  snowboarder is to take a lesson from a qualified instructor.
after a few lessons you'll be enjoying a  wider range of our winter slopes.
you may also be surprised at how many expensive  boards we find in bushes, far from the edge of any runs, when the snow melts in  spring.
in addition to eye protection, we also recommend sunscreen to protect your skin.
wicking fabrics include synthetics, such  as polypropylene.
view details season passes are non-refundable.
the ski area accepts the presentation of a valid, state-issued, disability parking placard or card, or other state-issued proof of disability, as a credible assurance that the use of the other power-driven mobility device is for the individual´s mobility disability.
this prevents a run-away board in the event they should fall and drop their snowboard.
the best way to  avoid a collision is to follow the seven steps of your responsibility code.
uv  exposure is increased in a mountain environment due to altitude and reflection  off of the snow.
use of  these devices by the public would pose safety hazards to individuals using the  trails for mountain biking and hiking given the size, weight, dimensions, and  speed of these devices; the potential for collisions with other visitors; the  high volume of traffic on the trails; and the substantial risk of serious  impacts to natural resources caused by these vehicles.
the technician will give you a pair of boots to try on.
shell layer your shell layer  should protect you, and your inside layers, from becoming wet.
buying or renting  equipment that is suited for your size and abilities will enhance your comfort,  and provide you with a safer and better experience on the mountain.
it is also  important to obey signs designating slow zones and intersecting areas.
wicking layer the first layer you want to put on is the wicking layer.