- apres ski and dining out+ après ski is usually concentrated on a half dozen lively night spots including the ski bistro and the music bar piste, which is one of the hippest, with live bands and djs urged on by the young boarder crowd.
but thermal layers are essential including well  insulated gloves and socks.
shops and restaurants at street level create a village atmosphere and lodging has direct access to the ski slopes, with no roads to cross in most cases.
£459 - ruka village fr.
£485 ruka skiing price list - december 2012 £769 - january 2013 £459 - february 2013 £519 - christmas 2012 £795 - new year 2012 - 2013 £769 - half term 2013 £739 other ski resorts in finland iso-syote £459 levi £424 saariselka £424 yllas £384 cheap ski holidays to ruka - rukahovi hotel, ruka 20/01/13 - gatwick - 7nts £689 - ruka village, ruka 20/01/13 - gatwick - 7nts £485 - aurinkorinne, ruka 20/01/13 - gatwick - 7nts £465 - rukahovi hotel, ruka 20/01/13 - gatwick - 7nts £689 - maston aitio c, ruka 20/01/13 - gatwick - 7nts £475 - home - ski deals - groups - ski resorts - ski holiday guides - snowboarding - newsletter - ski news - blog - snow reports - powderhound new - andorra - austria - bulgaria - canada - finland - france - italy - japan - norway - romania - serbia - slovenia - spain - sweden - switzerland - usa call free: 0800 044 3523 or email:
abta bonded travel agent no l9364.
saunas are a big feature, virtually every property has its own, so  you are likely to experience the two extremes of temperature during your visit.
- skiing for beginners+ a great place to experience snow sports for the first time, ruka has ideal beginner terrain close to your lodging and an excellent english-speaking ski school.
for younger children the  santa magic is hard to beat and older children can take part in most of the  activities.
now: 0800 044 3523 - contact us - site map - faqs - how do i book - customer service our phone lines on 0800 044 3523 are open 8.30am - 10.00pm monday - saturday; 9.00am - 10.00pm on sunday (uk time).
- snow conditions in ruka finland + snow report issued: 13th
the cold  temperatures also aid snowfall and the durability of snow once it arrives, and  ruka has one of the longest seasons in europe of a resort without a glacier -  typically from mid-october to mid-june.
first ski lessons are available from age five with the ski  school and these are excellent.
jan any february 13 --> sun 3rd feb -->
also worth note, lift  passes here are some of the cheapest in europe, about a third less than the  price at most large resorts in the alps.
for younger children the santa magic is hard to beat and older children can take part in most of the activities.
nearby kuusamo (20km/13 miles) has a  superb tropical spa swimming pool complex.
expect to eat a lot of reindeer, salmon, wild mushrooms and loganberries, with double rations if you sign up for one of the excellent lappish nights.
the kaltiolampi kids outdoor play area has its  own small lift.
apres ski and dining out+ après ski is usually concentrated  on a half dozen lively night spots including the ski bistro and the music bar  piste, which is one of the hippest, with live bands and djs urged on by the  young boarder crowd.
as with other resorts in  lapland, downhill skiing and boarding are minority activities for most, with  huge cross country ski and snowmobiling areas, plus a host of other full and  half day activities such as dog sledding and reindeer safaris.
ruka is located just  below the arctic circle and close to the russian border in the north east of  the country.
there's a friendly, frontier town feel, and the  finns often party hard when they're in town, which tends to be towards the end  of the season.
santa also welcomes visitors all season long.
£459 - rukahovi hotel fr.
ruka has an excellent indoor sports centre with indoor tennis,  squash, badminton and a golf simulator.
more unusual options in the resort include the chance for a lappish evening on the russian border and icelandic horse riding.
but thermal layers are essential including well insulated gloves and socks.
in common with all resorts at this latitude it can be  very cold - in to double figures below zero, although it is often warmer,  meaning closer to zero.
intermediate skiing+ in most cases the slopes are rather uninspiring  and rather short compared to the alps, usually straight affairs down the gently  rolling fells, and with less than 300m of vertical to play with.
snowboarding at ruka+ aware of the limitations of their slopes for  regular downhillers, the finns have been capitalising on their possibilities  for new school snow sports.
kuusamo: 30 minutes oulu: 3 hours ruka has been the fastest growing of lapland's ski areas over the  past decade, and is now one of finland's major ski resorts.
weather report: overcast skies temperature: -9°c open lifts: 16 of 20 view ruka snow history - ruka resort statistics+
sales@fasttrackski.co.uk mon to sat: 8.30am - 10.00pm sun: 9.00am - 10.00pm - - ski destinations - andorra - austria - bulgaria - canada - finland - france - italy - japan - norway - romania - serbia - slovenia - spain - sweden - switzerland - usa - - ski holiday guides - cheap ski holidays - group ski holidays - single ski holidays - santa claus holidays - skiing before christmas - christmas ski holidays - new year ski holidays - easter ski holidays - popular ski resorts - ski operators - ski holiday accommodation - ski chalet holidays - snow reports - - ski deals - ski holiday search - newsletter subscription - fast track ski twitter - - about fast track ski - terms & conditions - privacy policy - holiday extras can't find what you're looking for?
packages including tuition,  rentals and lift ticket are offered, which provide very good value for money.
for more challenges there are mogul fields and the  world cup freestyle arena, or sign up with the ski school to try some off piste  skiing through the trees.
however, ski bistro serves alpine cuisine including fondue and raclette, and you can also find chinese or pizza if the mood takes you!
expect to eat a lot of reindeer, salmon, wild mushrooms and  loganberries, with double rations if you sign up for one of the excellent  lappish nights.
on the up side the cold temperatures help maintain the integrity of the snow and it's a great choice for early intermediates and families.
there is a non-ski kindergarten, kumpare kids, which accepts children aged two to seven between 9.30am and 5pm daily, although you will need to return to look after your children at lunchtime when cover is not provided.
our ski experts will be happy to help.
advanced+ opportunities for advanced skiers are limited on the  piste, although there are steeper runs including several blacks on the north  and west side of the area.
shops and restaurants at street  level create a village atmosphere and lodging has direct access to the ski  slopes, with no roads to cross in most cases.
as with other resorts in lapland, downhill skiing and boarding are minority activities for most, with huge cross country ski and snowmobiling areas, plus a host of other full and half day activities such as dog sledding and reindeer safaris.
there are around 30 different choices for places to dine out.
- ski holidays in ruka suitable for families+ ruka is an exciting destination for families with the atmosphere of the far north combined with the convenience of a modern and well equipped resort.
please read our terms & conditions and privacy policy of sale carefully before booking.
dec any january 13 --> sun 6th jan --> sun 13th
also worth note, lift passes here are some of the cheapest in europe, about a third less than the price at most large resorts in the alps.
feb - board basis any board basis half board self catering - duration any duration 7 nights - number of people any group size 1 person 2 people 3 people 4 people 5 people 6 people 7 people 8 people 9 people 10 people 11 people
there is a non-ski kindergarten, kumpare kids, which  accepts children aged two to seven between 9.30am and 5pm daily, although you  will need to return to look after your children at lunchtime when cover is not  provided.
the cold temperatures also aid snowfall and the durability of snow once it arrives, and ruka has one of the longest seasons in europe of a resort without a glacier - typically from mid-october to mid-june.
ruka is located just below the arctic circle and close to the russian border in the north east of the country.
£689 - apartments - aurinkorinne fr.
all holidays listed on this web site are subject to availability at the time of booking.
the resort boasts three half pipes  and a big choice of jumps, rails and boxes in the terrain park.
jan --> sun 20th jan --> sun 27th
slope direction n s e w very easy runs 8 easy runs 12 medium runs 9 difficult runs 2 toughest run name battery run skiable vertical 201m number of lifts 18 top lift height 492m night skiing y snowboarding parks 2 half pipes 1 swimming pools 2 night clubs 2 mountain restaurants 10 - ruka piste map+ - ruka transfer times+ kuusamo: 30 minutes oulu: 3 hours leading international resort planners of ecosign, the same business responsible for whistler, have worked to make the whole ski holiday experience here a seamless one.
on the up side  the cold temperatures help maintain the integrity of the snow and it's a great  choice for early intermediates and families.
there are around 30 different choices for places to  dine out.
it can also be dark in mid-winter, with  slopes floodlit at the ends of the day, although conversely it is very light  once you are through the period from mid-december to mid-february.
the kaltiolampi kids outdoor play area has its own small lift.
should the holiday you have requested not be available our travel consultant will offer you an alternative.
it  also shares the common feature of resorts in northern lapland - the magical  blue light of the area, the likelihood of seeing the still more magical  northern lights, and a location in a pristine near-arctic wilderness with  little human activity between you and the north pole.
freestyle and boarding are both big here,  with ruka hosting the freestyle world ski championships in 2005, as well as  many international boarding competitions.
more unusual  options in the resort include the chance for a lappish evening on the russian  border and icelandic horse riding.
other activities and facilities at ruka+ not many people go to  lapland to ski in the 9am-4pm, six-days-a-week sense.
it can also be dark in mid-winter, with slopes floodlit at the ends of the day, although conversely it is very light once you are through the period from mid-december to mid-february.
leading  international resort planners of ecosign, the same business responsible for  whistler, have worked to make the whole ski holiday experience here a seamless  one.
feb 12 last snowed: 10th feb 12 fresh snow depth: 1cm depth at resort: 62cm mountain depth: 62cm piste state: excellent (great conditions - wax up your skis!)
- intermediate skiing+
in most cases the slopes are rather uninspiring and rather short compared to the alps, usually straight affairs down the gently rolling fells, and with less than 300m of vertical to play with.
packages including tuition, rentals and lift ticket are offered, which provide very good value for money.
planning for the new village dates back to 1999 when the resort's current  master plan was first set out, with the idea of building a pedestrian village  and moving car parking underground.
over the past decade the  region has profited from our decreasing interest in that type of winter  holiday, and has instead concentrated on winter sports alternatives -  snowmobiling (600km of trails, bring your driving license), dog-sledding,  reindeer-safaris to name a few, all available in ruka.
skiing for beginners+ a great place to experience snow sports for  the first time, ruka has ideal beginner terrain close to your lodging and an  excellent english-speaking ski school.
- other activities and facilities at ruka+ not many people go to lapland to ski in the 9am-4pm, six-days-a-week sense.
ruka has an excellent indoor sports centre with indoor tennis, squash, badminton and a golf simulator.
more than three quarters  of the ski slopes are floodlit for skiing through to 7pm.
it also shares the common feature of resorts in northern lapland - the magical blue light of the area, the likelihood of seeing the still more magical northern lights, and a location in a pristine near-arctic wilderness with little human activity between you and the north pole.
planning for the new village dates back to 1999 when the resort's current master plan was first set out, with the idea of building a pedestrian village and moving car parking underground.
saving you money on your ski holiday ski holidays in ruka, finland suitable for: ski holidays in ruka - beginners | - intermediates | - advanced | - boarders | - family friendly | - glacier | - height | 291m quick links - ski holidays to ruka - ski holidays to finland - home / - ski destinations / - finland / - ruka ruka has been the fastest growing of lapland's ski areas over the past decade, and is now one of finland's major ski resorts.
£465 - maston aitio c fr.
steepest is the 225m long battery run which reaches  a pitch of 53%.
- snowboarding at ruka+ aware of the limitations of their slopes for regular downhillers, the finns have been capitalising on their possibilities for new school snow sports.
accommodation in ruka - hotels - rukahovi apartments fr.
for more challenges there are mogul fields and the world cup freestyle arena, or sign up with the ski school to try some off piste skiing through the trees.
more than three quarters of the ski slopes are floodlit for skiing through to 7pm.
freestyle and boarding are both big here, with ruka hosting the freestyle world ski championships in 2005, as well as many international boarding competitions.
steepest is the 225m long battery run which reaches a pitch of 53%.
- advanced+ opportunities for advanced skiers are limited on the piste, although there are steeper runs including several blacks on the north and west side of the area.
sun 10th feb --> sun 17th
however, ski bistro serves alpine cuisine including  fondue and raclette, and you can also find chinese or pizza if the mood takes  you!
saunas are a big feature, virtually every property has its own, so you are likely to experience the two extremes of temperature during your visit.
the resort boasts three half pipes and a big choice of jumps, rails and boxes in the terrain park.
ski holidays in ruka suitable for families+ ruka is an exciting  destination for families with the atmosphere of the far north combined with the  convenience of a modern and well equipped resort.
in common with all resorts at this latitude it can be very cold - in to double figures below zero, although it is often warmer, meaning closer to zero.
over the past decade the region has profited from our decreasing interest in that type of winter holiday, and has instead concentrated on winter sports alternatives - snowmobiling (600km of trails, bring your driving license), dog-sledding, reindeer-safaris to name a few, all available in ruka.
nearby kuusamo (20km/13 miles) has a superb tropical spa swimming pool complex.
reset - country any country finland - resort any resort finland --> iso-syote --> levi --> ruka --> saariselka --> yllas - airport any airport gatwick - departure date any date any december 12 --> sun 23rd dec --> sun 30th
accommodation in ruka
£475 - ruka suites fr.
there's a friendly, frontier town feel, and the finns often party hard when they're in town, which tends to be towards the end of the season.
first ski lessons are available from age five with the ski school and these are excellent.