silver star also has lift-served  downhill skiing and snowboarding.
in the jura mountains near geneva, we've found fun  skating at chapelle des bois.
nearest airport is bozeman, montana -- but could also consider flying to salt lake city with the hope of doing somexc skiing around there between the airline flight and a long drive in darkness to or from west yellowstone.
on the maindachstein glacier page, select "sommer", then  "gletscherbahn", and "trainingszentrum").
kenneth s. roberts qqqqqqqqqq qqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqqq
sovereign lake -- british columbia, canada (near vernon and the kelowna airport) -- notably technically interesting cross country ski trails, and connects to the silver star trail network (which also has alpine downhill skiing with lifts).
in the jura mountains near geneva, we've found fun skating at chapelle des bois.
also has lift-served downhill skiing and snowboarding.
silver star also has lift-served downhill skiing and snowboarding.
nearest airport is  salzburg, but could also drive there from munich.
seegavin watt's website so far, the only xc skiing i've heard of is in ushuaia in tierra del fuego, argentina, near the southern tip of the continent.
some say it's better to wait until there's skiing in anchorage -- story1 --  some elite racers have trained on the eagle glacier in spring and summer.
mt bachelor also has lift-served downhill skiing and snowboarding.
key organizational point:  if you  cannot get a good flight to the kelowna airport, it's a long drive from  anywhere else, difficult in bad weather.
places to ski xcski skate classic places blog
france -- for a holiday that combines cross-country with downhill skiing or backcountry ski mountaineering, the french alps deliver.
on the maindachstein glacier page, select "sommer", then "gletscherbahn", and "trainingszentrum").
i've had fun xc skiing in oslo  nordmarka (great skiing just a trolley ride from downtown oslo), sjusjoen ( cabins), geilo.
australia gavin watt wrote (on the rec.skiing.nordic group):  the main nordic  skiing sites in australia are the victorian high country resorts of falls creek  (where thekangaroo hoppet race is held in late august), mount hotham (they also  have a biathlon range), lake mountain and in new south wales, perisher  blue.
seewebsite1 - website2 - story1 alaska some elite american racers train around fairbanks or hatcher pass in autumn  -- but it's dark a lot then.
perhaps the problem is that dramatic peaks are surrounded by steep slopes which are not appropriate for cross-country ski trails -- so might want to be prepared to rent snowshoes to hike to, or ride a mechnical lift up to see bigger views (but then also make inquiries about avalanche danger).
more new places favorites hudson valley lake placid non-winter more skate secrets faq climb hills leg theory resources learn motions ideas+qs blog more classic secrets faq resources learn motions ideas+qs
see ski info - story1 but lots of the trails i skied in norway did not have so many interesting curves + fun dips + rolls as favorite ski centers in france and italy (though not so different from average trails in france + italy).
see silver star - sovereign lake famous place for summer and fall skiing -- story1 - story2 - story3.
note that this place is near a very large body of water, which influences its weather.
likely airport is milano, but perhaps could also be reached by train and bus (or rental car in good conditions) from zurich.
northeast italy -- some interesting trail designs and some dramatic rock peaks -- see italy stories linked fromthis page.
some say it's better to wait until there's skiing in anchorage -- story1 -- some elite racers have trained on the eagle glacier in spring and summer.
and ancient city walking areas in annecy  and briancon, also interesting city walking in grenoble, lyon, geneva.
see xc ski alaska west yellowstone, montana (near wyoming border) traditional place for usa race camps in november -- rendezvous ski trails -  -free heel & wheel.
autumn training site for some famous national race teams.
see ski info -  story1 but lots of the trails i skied in norway did not have so many interesting  curves + fun dips + rolls as favorite ski centers in france and italy (though  not so different from average trails in france + italy).
nearest airport is salzburg, but could also drive there from munich.
some of the "alpine downhill" ski trails (and alpine ski  mountaineering tours) are more likely to have dramatic views than the  cross-country ski trails -- but alpine downhill skiing (or ski mountaineering)
seegavin watt's website south america so far, the only xc skiing i've heard of is in ushuaia in tierra del fuego,  argentina, near the southern tip of the continent.
in addition to race camps, they've been holding actual elite races here before the end of november.
i assume there must be  more interesting fun ski trails in norway, so if it's important to you to ski  that sort of style, i'd suggest do some more specific research in advance,  rather than assuming you'll find it on the obvious trails at the obvious places.
in the northern alps, we like: la féclaz for wonderfully fun trails; les saisies for hillier fun trail design, views of big mountains, late-season snow; bessans for gentle trails amidst dramatic mountains with late-season snow.
(my question:  is  it true that tierra del fuego is surrounded by oceans known for furious  weather?)
gavin watt wrote (on the rec.skiing.nordic group): the main nordic skiing sites in australia are the victorian high country resorts of falls creek (where thekangaroo hoppet race is held in late august), mount hotham (they also have a biathlon range), lake mountain and in new south wales, perisher blue.
key drawback is that it's so far from any major airport.
a place some american racers have tried is sognefjellet, near the sognefjord.
lots of people already  know about the incredible beauty and range of the downhill resorts and ski  mountaineering.
norway a place some american racers have tried is sognefjellet, near the  sognefjord.  note that this place is near a very large body of water,  which influences its weather.
and most of the scenery is not dramatic in the obvious way of some places in the alps, so if you're looking to ski with a view of something more obviously dramatic than the wide spaces of the overall "plateau" environment, do some specific advance research.
mt bachelor also has  lift-served downhill skiing and snowboarding.
some elite american racers sometimes train here.
but the french have also applied their joy in living to their cross-country  skiing.
lots of skiers you meet on the trails speak english,  though you might not guess that from the websites.
bend, oregon -- fun for spring skiing.
seewebsite1 - website2 - story1 some elite american racers train around fairbanks or hatcher pass in autumn -- but it's dark a lot then.
sovereign lake -- british columbia, canada (near vernon and the kelowna  airport) -- notably technically interesting cross country ski trails, and  connects to the silver star trail network (which also has alpine downhill  skiing with lifts).
in the northern alps, we like: la féclaz for wonderfully fun  trails; les saisies for hillier fun trail design, views of big mountains,  late-season snow;  bessans for gentle trails amidst dramatic mountains  with late-season snow.
organizational point:   sognefjellet is a long way from oslo, and oslo gets little direct air service  from north america.
see xc ski alaska traditional place for usa race camps in november -- rendezvous ski trails - -free heel & wheel.
but it's worth doing some advance research: the fun interesting trail designs are not necessarily near the dramatic views or the obvious tourist destinations.
see thisski info val senales / schnalstal -- near kurzras in the südtirol (trentino  alto adige) region of northeastern italy, just south of the austrian border.
for more ideas, see xcskiworld ski hudson valley (new york) road-skate touring in the hudson valley bike hudson valley (new york) concept words: ski skiing cross country cross-country xc snow skier skiers skis nordic roberts skating: skate skates skater skaters push glide classic: stride striding diagonal kick glide home | classic technique | skate | places to ski | more to send us questions or comments about this website, see the contact information -- -- homepage is www.roberts-1.com/xcski © copyright 2001-2005
cross-country ski world -- where to ski cross country ski areas association -- usa and canada canadian trail guide see also:  reports on skiing in usa |  europe cross-country skiing in the hudson valley -- new york mohonk + minnewaska -- when a cross-country skier visits metro new york or  northern new jersey, the first question should be "what are the snow  conditions at mohonk and minnewaska?".
requires different skills and equipment than cross-country skiing.
but it's worth doing some advance research: the fun interesting trail  designs are not necessarily near the dramatic views or the obvious tourist  destinations.
perhaps the problem is that dramatic peaks are surrounded by steep  slopes which are not appropriate for cross-country ski trails -- so might want  to be prepared to rent snowshoes to hike to, or ride a mechnical lift up to see  bigger views (but then also make inquiries about avalanche danger).
see mt bachelor cross country - tumalo langlauf club - race camp  schedule.
note: the glacier is at a much higher altitude than most folks normally do their xc skiing, so it's worth considering how your body is going to handle acclimatization.
likely  airport is milano, but perhaps could also be reached by train and bus (or  rental car in good conditions) from zurich.
for more ideas, see xcskiworld see also ski hudson valley (new york) road-skate touring in the hudson valley bike hudson valley (new york) concept words: ski skiing cross country cross-country xc snow skier skiers  skis nordic roberts skating: skate skates skater skaters push glide classic: stride striding diagonal kick glide [ print this | help ] home | classic technique | skate |  places to ski | more to send us questions or comments about this website, see the contact  information -- -- homepage is www.roberts-1.com/xcski © copyright 2001-2005
nearest airport is bozeman, montana -- but could  also consider flying to salt lake city with the hope of doing somexc skiing  around there between the airline flight and a long drive in darkness to or from  west yellowstone.
(my question: is it true that tierra del fuego is surrounded by oceans known for furious weather?)
lots of people already know about the incredible beauty and range of the downhill resorts and ski mountaineering.
i've had fun xc skiing in oslo nordmarka (great skiing just a trolley ride from downtown oslo),
france -- for a holiday that combines cross-country with downhill skiing or  backcountry ski mountaineering, the french alps deliver.
lake placid | mt van hoevenberg snow before and after winter silver star + sovereign lake -- british columbia, canada.
lots of skiers you meet on the trails speak english, though you might not guess that from the websites.
more cross country skiing cross-country ski world --
where to ski cross country ski areas association -- usa and canada canadian trail guide see also: reports on skiing in usa | europe cross-country skiing in the hudson valley -- new york mohonk + minnewaska -- when a cross-country skier visits metro new york or northern new jersey, the first question should be "what are the snow conditions at mohonk and minnewaska?".
see also:reports on skiing in france.
november training site for serious north american racers, and for serious  skiers looking for fun skiing.
organizational point: sognefjellet is a long way from oslo, and oslo gets little direct air service from north america.
note: the glacier is at  a much higher altitude than most folks normally do their xc skiing, so it's  worth considering how your body is going to handle acclimatization.
lake placid | mt van hoevenberg november training site for serious north american racers, and for serious skiers looking for fun skiing.
key organizational point: if you cannot get a good flight to the kelowna airport, it's a long drive from anywhere else, difficult in bad weather.
seegavin watt's website new zealand gavin watt wrote (on the rec.skiing.nordic group):  new zealand has a  good resort calledwaiorau ski farm near queenstown on the south  island.
i assume there must be more interesting fun ski trails in norway, so if it's important to you to ski that sort of style, i'd suggest do some more specific research in advance, rather than assuming you'll find it on the obvious trails at the obvious places.
northeast italy -- some interesting trail designs and some dramatic rock  peaks -- see italy stories linked fromthis page.
some of the "alpine downhill" ski trails (and alpine ski mountaineering tours) are more likely to have dramatic views than the cross-country ski trails -- but alpine downhill skiing (or ski mountaineering) requires different skills and equipment than cross-country skiing.
and ancient city walking areas in annecy and briancon, also interesting city walking in grenoble, lyon, geneva.
also has  lift-served downhill skiing and snowboarding.
and there's some spectacular mountain groups which have  cross-country ski trails nearby which donot have much view of those  mountains.
see thisski info autumn training site for some famous national race teams.
see silver star - sovereign lake dachstein glacier -- near ramsau, in the steiermark region of austria.
seegavin watt's website gavin watt wrote (on the rec.skiing.nordic group): new zealand has a good resort calledwaiorau ski farm near queenstown on the south island.
norway -- where it all started.
and there's some spectacular mountain groups which have cross-country ski trails nearby which donot have much view of those mountains.
and most of the scenery is not dramatic in the obvious way of some places  in the alps, so if you're looking to ski with a view of something more  obviously dramatic than the wide spaces of the overall "plateau"  environment, do some specific advance research.
see mt bachelor cross country - tumalo langlauf club - race camp schedule.
kenneth s. roberts qqqqqqqqqq
famous place for summer and fall skiing -- story1 - story2 - story3.
but the french have also applied their joy in living to their cross-country skiing.
sjusjoen ( cabins), geilo.