guide – the wisp snowboarding resort has a vertical drop of 700 feet.
the resort also offers two quad chairlifts, three ski  carpets, five triple chairlifts, and four surface tows.
in all, the area  receives an average of 100 feet of natural snowfall per year.
if you are  looking for even more of a challenge, you might want to try to work your way  from the green diamond to the black diamond on one of the many trails as well.
hangout & hookup – in addition to all of the winter activities available at the wisp snowboarding resort, there are plenty of other places to hangout.
for example, you can do a little shopping or you can grab a bite to eat.
in all, the area receives an average of 100 feet of natural snowfall per year.
it features 132 acres of skiable terrain with the trails covering a total distance of 10.5 miles.
this includes the terrain gardens mini parks, the super pipe, the whip saw terrain trail, the rail park & kid zones, and the pro park.
if you are looking for even more of a challenge, you might want to try to work your way from the green diamond to the black diamond on one of the many trails as well.
it features 132  acres of skiable terrain with the trails covering a total distance of 10.5  miles.
this includes the terrain gardens mini parks, the super pipe, the whip saw  terrain trail, the rail park & kid zones, and the pro park.
if you are looking to snowboard in maryland, wisp is a great place to go.
if you are looking to snowboard in maryland, wisp is a great place to  go.
half pipe at wisp wisp resort skier scoop: 25% off 1-day adult non-holiday lift tickets pick up your  wisp mountain lift ticket at participating costco locations and receive 25% off* snowboarding zone - wisp resort, md: riders
snowboarding zone - wisp resort, md: riders guide – the wisp snowboarding resort has a vertical drop of 700 feet.
this is the most popular trail to be found on the east ridge and includes going  through a tunnel.
phone:  303-759-1179     fax:  303-459-4295     email:
in fact, the resort offers nine lanes dedicated to tubing as well as two lifts.
this trail is 1.5 miles long and covers 10.6 acres of land.
of its 32 different runs, 41% have a slope difficulty rates as  beginner.
one of the more popular beginner trails at the wisp snowboarding resort is possum.
if you are looking for something a bit more difficult, check out go down under.
parks and pipes - there are plenty of parks to enjoy at the wisp snowboarding resort.
or, you can relax at the spa.
out of bounds – if you feel like taking on more  than just snowboarding, tubing is also available at the wisp snowboarding  resort.
one of the more popular beginner trails at the wisp snowboarding  resort is possum.
the wisp snowboarding facility also has a super  pipe, which was removed for a short period of time but has returned in a new  location.
the resort also offers two quad chairlifts, three ski carpets, five triple chairlifts, and four surface tows.
cross-country skiing, snowmobiling, and snowshoeing is also available.
the base is at 2,415 feet and the summit is at 3,115 feet.
hangout & hookup – in addition to all of  the winter activities available at the wisp snowboarding resort, there are  plenty of other places to hangout.
in fact, the resort offers nine lanes dedicated to tubing as well as  two lifts.
for example, you can do a little shopping or  you can grab a bite to eat.
getting to the facility is an easy drive and is only about two hours away from pittsburgh and a little less than three hours from washington, d.c. copyright © 1998 - 2012 vacation coupons.
getting to the facility is an easy drive and is only about two hours away  from pittsburgh and a little less than three hours from washington, d.c. copyright © 1998 - 2012 vacation coupons.
28% of the slopes are rated as intermediate and 31% are advanced.
cross-country skiing, snowmobiling, and snowshoeing is also  available.
home |  sitemap employment opportunities   about us   contact us   disclaimer skicoupons.com is a subsidiary of  vacationcoupons.com 7853 east arapahoe ct., suite 3700, englewood, co 80112 p.o. box 4331, greenwood village, co 80155
this is the most popular trail to be found on the east ridge and includes going through a tunnel.
in  addition, over 90% of the skiable terrain at the wisp snowboarding resort is  open for skiing at night.
parks and  pipes - there are plenty of parks to enjoy at the wisp snowboarding resort.
the wisp snowboarding facility also has a super pipe, which was removed for a short period of time but has returned in a new location.
out of bounds – if you feel like taking on more than just snowboarding, tubing is also available at the wisp snowboarding resort.
in addition, over 90% of the skiable terrain at the wisp snowboarding resort is open for skiing at night.
of its 32 different runs, 41% have a slope difficulty rates as beginner.