seite weiterempfehlen
then, garmisch-partenkirchen is the  right place for you, for germany's top winter sports resort has much to offer.
you love skiing, snowboarding, carving or freestyle skiing.
then, garmisch-partenkirchen is the right place for you, for germany's top winter sports resort has much to offer.
germany's highest altitude skiing area offers 21 km of varied ski runs, from  easy to difficult.
please activate javascript to use all features of our website!
you will find conditions here that make your heart beat faster: more than 60 km of skiing slopes, the perfect snow from november to may, well-prepared slopes ranging from easy to demanding, modern lift facilities, beautiful views and cosy ski huts.
not only were the lift facilities modernised, the famous  kandahar ski slope was reconstructed.
skiing area garmisch classic+zugspitze skiing area eckbauer maintenance periods germany´s top winter sports resort you love skiing,  snowboarding, carving or freestyle skiing.
there was a good reason as to why  garmisch-partenkirchen was selected as the venue for the alpine skiing world  championship 2011.
if you prefer snowboarding, carving or freestyle skiing, you will enjoy the classic skiing area.
there was a good reason as to why garmisch-partenkirchen was selected as the venue for the alpine skiing world championship 2011.
you will find conditions here that make your heart beat faster: more than 60 km  of skiing slopes, the perfect snow from november to may, well-prepared slopes  ranging from easy to demanding, modern lift facilities, beautiful views and  cosy ski huts.
there are five downhill runs with  artificial snow, so that you can enjoy skiing all the way down to 700m.
germany's highest altitude skiing area offers 21 km of varied ski runs, from easy to difficult.
if you prefer snowboarding, carving or freestyle skiing, you will enjoy the  classic skiing area.
not only were the lift facilities modernised, the famous kandahar ski slope was reconstructed.
and of course: the skiing area of mount zugspitze.
- town+region - sports+adventure - summer - winter - skiing+snowboarding - cross-country skiing+biathlon - winter hiking - snowshoeing - skiing tours - tobogganing - ice sports - family - further offers - health+well-being - events+dates - business - gapa multimedia - find+book - weather - event calendar - routes+plans - gapa shop - shortlist - partner - contact+service - press - sitemap - imprint - about us - shortlist
there are five downhill runs with artificial snow, so that you can enjoy skiing all the way down to 700m.
garmisch classic+zugspitze - skiing area eckbauer - maintenance periods germany´s top winter sports resort
type: contrast + deutsch english find start search - contact+service - | - press - | - about us - | - shortlist - town+region - sports+adventure - health+well-being - events+dates - business - gapa multimedia - skiing+snowboarding - cross-country skiing+biathlon - winter hiking - snowshoeing - skiing tours - tobogganing - ice sports - family - further offers further related articles - alpine huts+lodges - ski schools+ski rental further information - skiing area
are you ready? - seite weiterempfehlen - kommentare - merkzettel - drucken - partner - | - sitemap - | - imprint © 2009 markt garmisch-partenkirchen browser info: currently this website has been optimized for use with firefox, internet explorer 7+, opera, safari.