goggles work best as they can protect your eyes in all conditions.
when trying on boots  remember comfortable feet are key.
also get to know the other people in your lesson.
if you would like to book snow school programs now please call: 1-888-231-1499
be prepared  for any conditions.
whether it's sunny or snowing we always suggest you have something on your eyes.
not only will it keep your head warm but it will also keep it  protected.
just remember you can always change your mind!
visitaltitude sport and gift located in the  main lodge.
it’s all about having fun and learning something new.
once you choose you can create your plan of attack.
that means only one pair of socks.
skiing and snowboarding is going to make you use muscles you never knew you had.
once you choose you can create  your plan of attack.
however ultimately the decision is yours to make.
just remember it’s never too late to learn.
when you get dressed think layers.
to start choose something that you think you will be comfortable with, remember this is all about having fun.
goggles work best as they can protect your eyes in  all conditions.
your body will need the energy later.
chances are they might be a little nervous too.
never tried it, tried it once with a friend, had a previous knee injury, afraid of the chairlifts, etc.
new to skiing and  snowboarding new to skiing & snowboarding welcome to mount washington and your entry to the exciting new world of  snow sports!
open at 8am daily, the express rentals centre in the bradley centre is located just below the main lodge.
here our rentals technicians will get you suited up in the best rental equipment designed by rossignol and burton specifically for beginners.
wearing more pairs will not keep your feet any warmer and can cause pressure points in your boots which can become very uncomfortable throughout the day.
when filling out your  rentals forms you will be asked your height, weight and shoe size.
relax this is not work or school.
when  you get dressed think layers.
try to be early as the bradley centre can get quite busy especially on weekends and holidays.
if you missing something stop by theexpress rentals  centre in the bradley centre if you feel like you are  missing a few of these things in your wardrobe or you just plain forgot them at  home.
a good lesson can take you from an alright day on the hill to an amazing one!mount washington snow school has many different lesson options to suit your individual needs.
private lessons are an excellent way to kick start your day with 2 hrs of one on one instruction and feedback.
wake up and get excited!
helmets are included in all discover ski, snowboard and kids programs.
skiing and snowboarding is going to make you use  muscles you never knew you had.
rentals open at 8am daily, the express rentals centre in  the bradley centre is located just below the main lodge.
best part is, if it gets to warm you can always ditch it.
here our rentals  technicians will get you suited up in the best rental equipment designed by rossignol and burton specifically for beginners.
don’t worry no one is judging anything.
skiing or snowboarding everyone has their own opinion on which they like better, skiing or  snowboarding.
this information is used to select the appropriate gear and fit for your needs.
you  can learn a lot from watching other beginners find their balance.
private lessons are an excellent  way to kick start your day with 2 hrs of one on one instruction and feedback.
ask about our learn to turn program new for the 2010-2011 season!
just remember you can always change  your mind!
this is all important information that will help your instructor create a better experience for you.
welcome to mount washington and your entry to the exciting new world of snow sports!
proper layering starts with good thermals that  keep you warm and wick away moisture.
visitaltitude sport and gift located in the main lodge.
also get to know  the other people in your lesson.
we keep our class  sizes small to ensure quality lessons.
whether it's sunny or snowing we always suggest you  have something on your eyes.
not only will it keep your head warm but it will also keep it protected.
proper layering starts with good thermals that keep you warm and wick away moisture.
just  remember it’s never too late to learn.
make sure you drink some fluids and get some breakfast.
never tried it, tried it once with a friend, had a previous knee  injury, afraid of the chairlifts, etc.
helmets are included in all discover ski, snowboard and kids  programs.
we keep our class sizes small to ensure quality lessons.
to start choose something that you think you will be comfortable  with, remember this is all about having fun.
chances are they might be a little nervous  too.
this is all important information that  will help your instructor create a better experience for you.
next we suggest a lightweight, breathable fleece to help keep you warm and dry.
if you have any questions or concerns about the gear and how it should fit, our  friendly rentals technicians will be happy to help you.
whichever foot is in front will decide if you are left or right foot forward.
with the following tips we will help you to create the best skiing or snowboarding experience possible.
it’s  all about having fun and learning something new.
a good lesson can take you from an alright day on the hill to an amazing  one!mount washington snow school has many different  lesson options to suit your individual needs.
if you missing something stop by theexpress rentals centre in the bradley centre if you feel like you are missing a few of these things in your wardrobe or you just plain forgot them at home.
get to know your instructor and fill him/her in on anything that you think may be important.
next we suggest a  lightweight, breathable fleece to help keep you warm and dry.
with the following tips we will help you to create the best skiing or  snowboarding experience possible.
wearing  more pairs will not keep your feet any warmer and can cause pressure points in  your boots which can become very uncomfortable throughout the day.
do some stretches to loosen up  your back and leg muscles.
you can save yourself some time and  pick up your rentals at 3pm the night before at no extra charge that way you  can hit the slopes first thing in the morning.
if you have any questions or concerns about the gear and how it should fit, our friendly rentals technicians will be happy to help you.
everybody was a beginner at some time.
when filling out your rentals forms you will be asked your height, weight and shoe size.
wear a jacket and pants that are both  wind and water resistant this will not only make your day more enjoyable but  also help you to focus on all the important things like perfecting those turns  on your skis and boards.
do some stretches to loosen up your back and leg muscles.
there you can get suited up in all the latest trends and necessities for your first day on the hill.
we also offer discover skiing and snowboarding packages which include rentals,  a easy acres lift ticket and a 2 hr beginner group lesson.
you can learn a lot from watching other beginners find their balance.
later on you may decide to do both as many of us do.
listen to the weather forecast but remember mount washington weather can change rapidly.
lastly, don’t forget to wear a helmet.
when it's time to meet for your lesson, don’t be shy.
if you  are snowboarding you will be asked if you are left foot forward or right foot  forward.
wear a jacket and pants that are both wind and water resistant this will not only make your day more enjoyable but also help you to focus on all the important things like perfecting those turns on your skis and boards.
try to be early as the bradley centre can get quite  busy especially on weekends and holidays.
if you have no idea, consider how you would slide across the floor.
everyone has their own opinion on which they like better, skiing or snowboarding.
when trying on boots remember comfortable feet are key.
whether it’s to spend more time with your family, expand your active lifestyle, hang out with your friends or just to spend some time above the clouds, the possibilities are endless.
listen to the weather  forecast but remember mount washington weather can change rapidly.
if you’re getting tired, rest for a minute and watch and learn.
we also offer discover skiing and snowboarding packages which include rentals, a easy acres lift ticket and a 2 hr beginner group lesson.
ask about our learn to turn program new  for the 2010-2011 season!
if you are snowboarding you will be asked if you are left foot forward or right foot forward.
this  information is used to select the appropriate gear and fit for your needs.
make sure you drink some fluids and get some  breakfast.
get to know  your instructor and fill him/her in on anything that you think may be  important.
later on you  may decide to do both as many of us do.
email programs @ snowschool@mountwashington.ca or use our contact page
best part is, if  it gets to warm you can always ditch it.
you can save yourself some time and pick up your rentals at 3pm the night before at no extra charge that way you can hit the slopes first thing in the morning.
lastly, don’t forget to  wear a helmet.
if you have time organize your gear the night before.
there you can get suited up in all the latest trends and  necessities for your first day on the hill.
be prepared for any conditions.
whether it’s to spend more  time with your family, expand your active lifestyle, hang out with your friends  or just to spend some time above the clouds, the possibilities are endless.