the award results from many initiatives across the resort, but some of the more unique include bedtime stories read on monday nights, family sledging evenings and even bakery for children aged six and older in the haueter bakery on wednesday afternoons.
the award results from many initiatives across the resort, but  some of the more unique include bedtime stories read on monday nights, family  sledging evenings and even bakery for children aged six and older in the  haueter bakery on wednesday afternoons.
abta bonded travel agent no l9364.
children aged  from four years upwards are welcome to join the day or week long ski classes  organised by the school.
now: 0800 044 3523 - contact us - site map - faqs - how do i book - customer service our phone lines on 0800 044 3523 are open 8.30am - 10.00pm monday - saturday; 9.00am - 10.00pm on sunday (uk time).
from the end of december to the end of february, a two kilometre long cross country ski trail in boden (near adelboden) is floodlit from 6.30pm to 9.30pm every monday and wednesday.
the main indoor leisure centre is the sports centre at neighbouring frutigen.
here you will find everything from the little known genre of bernese hip-hop group to pop hits parties and rock performers.
children aged from four years upwards are welcome to join the day or week long ski classes organised by the school.
the official  snowboard school adelboden offers "sampler" courses, private and  group tuition at all levels.
apres ski and dining out+ the alte taverne has built a long standing  reputation for top bands in a cosy, informal venue.
weather report: overcast skies
adelboden's restaurants offer a choice of  dining from fast food to gourmet, the bodenhuettli is a homely restaurant where  you can enjoy fresh "wood oven" pizzas.
snowboarding at adelboden+ adelboden always has a lot of major  snowboarding events each winter, centred on the resort's highly regarded gran  masta park.
- apres ski and dining out+ the alte taverne has built a long standing reputation for top bands in a cosy, informal venue.
frutigen is also  home to an indoor horse riding centre.
sales@fasttrackski.co.uk mon to sat: 8.30am - 10.00pm sun: 9.00am - 10.00pm - - ski destinations - andorra - austria - bulgaria - canada - finland - france - italy - japan - norway - romania - serbia - slovenia - spain - sweden - switzerland - usa - - ski holiday guides - cheap ski holidays - group ski holidays - single ski holidays - santa claus holidays - skiing before christmas - christmas ski holidays - new year ski holidays - easter ski holidays - popular ski resorts - ski operators - ski holiday accommodation - ski chalet holidays - snow reports - - ski deals - ski holiday search - newsletter subscription - fast track ski twitter - - about fast track ski - terms & conditions - privacy policy - holiday extras can't find what you're looking for?
the route is perfect for beginners and the snow sports school  adelboden organises private lessons on request.
the beau site has a rustic  dining area with gourmet lounge.
our ski experts will be happy to help.
it was the first boarding-only school in the swiss  canton of bern to open, back in 1992.
the school is located next to crazy  sports which rents out all required gear.
located in the hahnenmoos sector, the park offers different lines  with rails and jumps designed for all ability levels from beginners to experts.
it is firmly fixed in the fis ski world cup calendar, with the giant slalom race on chuenisbärgli one of the classic ski events, annually drawing well over 20,000 spectators to witness the action live.
it is firmly fixed in the fis ski world cup calendar, with the  giant slalom race on chuenisbärgli one of the classic ski events, annually  drawing well over 20,000 spectators to witness the action live.
located in the hahnenmoos sector, the park offers different lines with rails and jumps designed for all ability levels from beginners to experts.
tickets (which are best purchased the  day before) include use of special beginner lifts so you do not need to  purchase a full area lift ticket from day one if you are a complete beginner.
£673 - waldhaus huldi fr.
tickets (which are best purchased the day before) include use of special beginner lifts so you do not need to purchase a full area lift ticket from day one if you are a complete beginner.
having climbed to the top of one of the surrounding  mountains, you can enjoy the magnificent view before skiing back through deep  snow to engstligenalp.
please read our terms & conditions and privacy policy of sale carefully before booking.
from the end of  december to the end of february, a two kilometre long cross country ski trail  in boden (near adelboden) is floodlit from 6.30pm to 9.30pm every monday and  wednesday.
this has a 25  metre long main pool for swimmers, a large multi-function pool, a children's  fun pool with a small slide and a whirlpool for 12 people, with a relaxation  room where people have a beautiful view over the mountains.
the pistes are open from 7pm to 9.45pm.
the ski school operates a bus  and lessons begin at the tourist centre.
here you will find  everything from the little known genre of bernese hip-hop group to pop hits  parties and rock performers.
the picturesque resort sits below one of switzerland's largest  ski areas, which links the local slopes with those of neighbouring lenk.
especially popular  are the children's races and of course the children's parties.
these are multiplied by numerous off-piste routes available to be tackled with  a local mountain guide.
all holidays listed on this web site are subject to availability at the time of booking.
any south west any scottish any london
night time skiing on chuenisbärgli takes place every friday in february and is free for multi-day lift ticket holders.
ski holidays in adelboden suitable for families+ the village of cosy  chalet style buildings is particularly popular with families - indeed adelboden  has won the accolade "families welcome" from the swiss tourist board  for its children-friendly infrastructure and range of activities for its  younger guests.
the alpine school adelboden runs tour weeks of the high elevation, engstligenalp which enjoys snow from december to mid-may.
fully-qualified mountain guides explain how to assess the avalanche situation,  operate the avalanche rescue device, improve ski technique and how to measure  the mountain gradient.
should the holiday you have requested not be available our travel consultant will offer you an alternative.
reset - country any country switzerland - resort any resort switzerland -> four valleys -> saastal -> matterhorn ski paradise --> adelboden --> davos --> grindelwald --> kandersteg --> klosters --> lauterbrunnen --> les diablerets --> nendaz --> saas fee --> st moritz --> verbier --> veysonnaz -->
- intermediate skiing+ with more than 20 high speed chair lifts, gondolas and cable cars it's easy to get around adelboden's huge ski area which stretches for more than 10km (six miles) as the crow flies to lenk, with runs up to seven kilometres (four and a half miles) long.
frutigen is also home to an indoor horse riding centre.
the park is well maintained by a dedicated team led by dänu kaufmann and has recently had local toilets and a new chill out zone added.
slope direction nw, ne very easy runs 1 easy runs 40 medium runs 50 difficult runs 14 toughest run name skiable vertical 1022m number of lifts 56 top lift height 2362m night skiing y snowboarding parks 3 half pipes 0 swimming pools 4 night clubs 2 mountain restaurants 47 - adelboden piste map+ - adelboden transfer times+ zürich: 2 hours geneva: 2 hours and 30 minutes adelboden is popular with skiers of all standards and has plenty of leisure facilities for non-skiers too.
with 14 black runs covering more than 20km (13 miles) of piste, adelboden has well above average attractions for the advanced skier.
these are multiplied by numerous off-piste routes available to be tackled with a local mountain guide.
adelboden's restaurants offer a choice of dining from fast food to gourmet, the bodenhuettli is a homely restaurant where you can enjoy fresh "wood oven" pizzas.
mar any april 12 --> sat 7th
other activities and facilities at adelboden+ dog sledding is  available with dog driver markus röthlisberger who has set up winter home  with his four-legged friends on engstligenalp.
temperature: -10°c open lifts: 57 of 57 view adelboden snow history - adelboden resort statistics+
- ski holidays in adelboden suitable for families+ the village of cosy chalet style buildings is particularly popular with families - indeed adelboden has won the accolade "families welcome" from the swiss tourist board for its children-friendly infrastructure and range of activities for its younger guests.
fully-qualified mountain guides explain how to assess the avalanche situation, operate the avalanche rescue device, improve ski technique and how to measure the mountain gradient.
skiing for beginners+ the ski school offers lessons from monday to  friday with sessions lasting about three hours.
the main indoor  leisure centre is the sports centre at neighbouring frutigen.
night time skiing on  chuenisbärgli takes place every friday in february and is free for  multi-day lift ticket holders.
the berna bar in the hotel bernerhof is another  popular choice and the arte bar is an interesting venue combining works of art  with a bar serving rum, whiskies, port and fine wines, to provide an experience  of artistic ambience.
to the north is the fitzer mountain, to the west the ammerten peak, to the south west the wildstrubel dominates and in the north east lies the aetelen ridge.
the official snowboard school adelboden offers "sampler" courses, private and group tuition at all levels.
other activities include paragliding, sleigh rides, snowshoeing and curling.
villars --> wengen --> zermatt - airport
saving you money on your ski holiday ski holidays in adelboden, switzerland suitable for: ski holidays in adelboden - beginners | - intermediates | - advanced | - boarders | - family friendly | - glacier | - height | 1353m quick links - ski holidays to adelboden - ski holidays to switzerland - home / - ski destinations / - switzerland / - adelboden one of switzerland's classic ski areas, adelboden has a long history of winter sports dating back to the start of the last century.
there is no non-ski nursery  for babies but the children's club run by the swiss snowsports school adelboden  is suitable for all children from three to five years old.
the alpine school adelboden runs tour weeks  of the high elevation, engstligenalp which enjoys snow from december to  mid-may.
the baren serves local and  international dishes in a cosy dining lounge and has a choice of 160 wines in  their cellar to choose from to accompany your meal.
the route is perfect for beginners and the snow sports school adelboden organises private lessons on request.
the ski school operates a bus and lessons begin at the tourist centre.
this has a 25 metre long main pool for swimmers, a large multi-function pool, a children's fun pool with a small slide and a whirlpool for 12 people, with a relaxation room where people have a beautiful view over the mountains.
any airport any midlands
intermediate skiing+ with more than 20 high speed chair lifts,  gondolas and cable cars it's easy to get around adelboden's huge ski area which  stretches for more than 10km (six miles) as the crow flies to lenk, with runs  up to seven kilometres (four and a half miles) long.
the school is located next to crazy sports which rents out all required gear.
the berna bar in the hotel bernerhof is another popular choice and the arte bar is an interesting venue combining works of art with a bar serving rum, whiskies, port and fine wines, to provide an experience of artistic ambience.
there is no non-ski nursery for babies but the children's club run by the swiss snowsports school adelboden is suitable for all children from three to five years old.
it is the largest high plateau in the western swiss alps.
having climbed to the top of one of the surrounding mountains, you can enjoy the magnificent view before skiing back through deep snow to engstligenalp.
£687 - hotel bristol fr.
the picturesque resort sits below one of switzerland's largest ski areas, which links the local slopes with those of neighbouring lenk.
accommodation in adelboden - hotels - arena steinmatt fr.
- snowboarding at adelboden+ adelboden always has a lot of major snowboarding events each winter, centred on the resort's highly regarded gran masta park.
the beau site has a rustic dining area with gourmet lounge.
guides - snowboarding - newsletter - ski news - blog - snow reports - powderhound new - andorra - austria - bulgaria - canada - finland - france - italy - japan - norway - romania - serbia - slovenia - spain - sweden - switzerland - usa call free: 0800 044 3523 or email:
- snow conditions in adelboden switzerland + snow report issued: 13th feb 12 last snowed: 11th feb 12 fresh snow depth: 2cm depth at resort: 70cm mountain depth: 210cm piste state: excellent (great skiing thanks to the recent snowfalls)
any north east any north west birmingham bristol edinburgh exeter gatwick glasgow leeds bradford liverpool luton manchester newcastle stansted - departure date any date any march 12 --> sat 3rd mar --> sat 10th mar --> sat 17th
- other activities and facilities at adelboden+ dog sledding is available with dog driver markus röthlisberger who has set up winter home with his four-legged friends on engstligenalp.
adelboden is popular with skiers of all standards and has plenty of  leisure facilities for non-skiers too.
other activities include  paragliding, sleigh rides, snowshoeing and curling.
zürich: 2 hours geneva: 2 hours  and 30 minutes one of switzerland's classic ski areas,  adelboden has a long history of winter sports dating back to the start of the  last century.
accommodation in adelboden
especially popular are the children's races and of course the children's parties.
although there's skiing for all abilities here, the resort has built a particular reputation as a serious ski destination.
it was the first boarding-only school in the swiss canton of bern to open, back in 1992.
the park is well maintained by a dedicated team led by dänu kaufmann and  has recently had local toilets and a new chill out zone added.
although there's skiing for all  abilities here, the resort has built a particular reputation as a serious ski  destination.
to the north  is the fitzer mountain, to the west the ammerten peak, to the south west the  wildstrubel dominates and in the north east lies the aetelen ridge.
- skiing for beginners+ the ski school offers lessons from monday to friday with sessions lasting about three hours.
advanced+ with 14 black runs covering more than 20km (13 miles) of  piste, adelboden has well above average attractions for the advanced skier.
£747 adelboden skiing price list - march 2012 £673 - april 2012 £768 other ski resorts in switzerland davos £894 grindelwald £489 kandersteg £454 klosters £785 lauterbrunnen £504 les diablerets £887 nendaz £279 saas fee £345 st moritz £820 verbier £466 veysonnaz £565 villars £277 wengen £414 zermatt £473 cheap ski holidays to adelboden - beau site, adelboden 17/03/12 - luton - 7nts £687 - beau site, adelboden 17/03/12 - luton - 7nts £687 - waldhaus huldi, adelboden 17/03/12 - luton - 7nts £747 - hotel bristol, adelboden 17/03/12 - luton - 7nts £673 - hotel bristol, adelboden 17/03/12 - luton - 7nts £673 - home - ski deals - groups - ski resorts - ski holiday
apr - board basis any board basis half board - duration any duration 7 nights 14 nights - number of people any group size 1 person 2 people 3 people 4 people 5 people 6 people 7 people 8 people 9 people 10 people 11 people
the baren serves local and international dishes in a cosy dining lounge and has a choice of 160 wines in their cellar to choose from to accompany your meal.