however, it is  also quite close to the st. paul´s area where you can enjoy bars, clubs  and restaurants.
another special offer of afton alps  ski resort are special lessons for women by women.
learn skiing and  snowboarding in your own time or take a special racing class.
if you´re tired from skiing after a few days why not spending  a day snow tubing for some fun and adventure?
learn skiing and snowboarding in your own time or take a special racing class.
afton alps offers a variety of classes in all levels of difficulty.
full view: trail map afton alps ski area go skiing and snow tubing surrounded by the afton state park afton  alps ski resort is located in the valley of the st croix valley.
another special offer of afton alps ski resort are special lessons for women by women.
forum afton alps ski area (no comment available yet) create new topic ski resort lift facilities 3 surface lifts 18
afton alps offers  a variety of classes in all levels of difficulty.
just grab your friends and family and cruise the six tubing chutes in the meadows area tubing center.
snowboarders can also choose between 4 terrain parks of which one offers a half pipe to do some tricks.
however, it is also quite close to the st. paul´s area where you can enjoy bars, clubs and restaurants.
if you want  to spend a very special birthday that your friends won´t forget you can  book a birthday party at the center.
contact mountain railways address afton alps recreation area 6600 peller ave.
18 chairs total: 21 lift facilities full view: trail map afton alps ski area go skiing and snow tubing surrounded by the afton state park afton alps ski resort is located in the valley of the st croix valley.
forum  afton alps ski area (no comment available yet) create new topic ski resort
ski resorts specials: - austria - switzerland - usa - canada - germany - france - italy - czech republic - poland - australia - new zealand search ski resort - summer ski resorts - ski resort finder accommodations community news - austria - switzerland - usa - germany - france - italy - australia - new zealand advertisement supported by: - ski magazine - events archive - home - ski resorts usa - ski resorts minnesota - ski resort afton alps ski area afton alps ski resort ski resort details trail map pictures ski pass prices contact - ski resort - webcams - snow report - weather - forum the following information and images originate from the authorized tourist office of afton alps ski area and are not a resort review created by www.skiresorts-test.com!
just grab your friends and family  and cruise the six tubing chutes in the meadows area tubing center.
with over 2101 ha of slopes and 48 trails it offers enough  space to keep you busy all day without getting bored.
s. hastings, mn 55033 phone 1-800-328-1328 e-mail send message web aftonalps.com webcams more webcams afton alps ski area weather -5°c overcast weather forecast afton alps ski area © tourispo gmbh & co. kg (2004-2012)
snowboarders can also  choose between 4 terrain parks of which one offers a half pipe to do some  tricks.
if you want to spend a very special birthday that your friends won´t forget you can book a birthday party at the center.
partner contact legal notice login - ski resorts | accommodations
slopes 20 ha 60 ha 20 ha 0 ha easy medium difficult ski routes groomed total: 100 ha lift facilities 3 surface lifts
with over 2101 ha of slopes and 48 trails it offers enough space to keep you busy all day without getting bored.
if you´re tired from skiing after a few days why not spending a day snow tubing for some fun and adventure?
chairs total: 21 lift facilities slopes groomed total: 100 ha easy medium difficult ski routes 20 ha 60 ha 20 ha 0 ha sea level 359 - 466m above sea level snowboarding 4 terrain parks 1 half pipe miscellaneous ski rental ski service lift tickets adults 1 day: us$ 28,00 children 1 day: us$ 21,00 seniors 1 day: us$ 21,00 group discount all lift ticket rates...