on clear winter  days, in the same direction you can see asnow-white wall with  blue shadows.
these days, youth  competitions in rock-climbing are held in this area.
during the winter season, the residents of tashkent and travelers from the other regions of uzbekistan and foreign countries come to chimgan for skiing, snowboarding and sledding.
legends of chimgan >>>
the length of the route is from 700 to 1000 m.
ski  slopes, ski lifts and options for snowboarding and skiing in uzbekistan description of the slopes, lifts and routes of chimgan: when you are  in tashkent, before the sunrise, in the east, against the background of the  blue sky you can see a lightblue silhouette.
rising to more than 3000 meters, they  have an eternal blanket of snow that descends to the foot of the mountain in  winter.
in tashkent now new pages shaxzoda lux hotel combined tour elita hotel, andijan scheduled tour uzbekistan hotels hotels in tashkent hotels in samarkand hotels in bukhara hotels in khiva uzbekistan resorts guest houses tours to uzbekistan easter holidays historical tours trekking and eco tours combined tours guaranteed departures daily excursions vip services things to do... about uzbekistan airlines arts & crafts bazaars cities & places cuisine cultural events customs rules exhibitions in uzbekistan general information historical figures maps of uzbekistan monumental sites museums/galleries night life provinces restaurants rivers & lakes shopping speaking uzbek traditions transport tourism in central asia tourism in uzbekistan useful information weather in uzbekistan our partners ato uzbekistan unwto samarkand san'at magazine uzbekistan irresistible acknowledgements charity found a mistake?
we're here to help you.
whatever time it takes to assist you, thats the time you'll receive.
uzbek restaurants and cafes, shashlik cafes and small  shops are available not far from the slopes.
following his example,  the elite began to constructsummer houses and cottages, and  later,sanatoriums and resorts.
next, the road rises above the dam of thecharvak water reservoir where you'll have a marvelous view of this highland water reservoir.
all rights reserved created by orexca.com creative group license ¹ 037-04, certification ¹ 006550 iso 9001:2008 certified terms of use our contacts: e-mail: info@orexca.com reservation department: (+998 71) 235 70 98 tourism department: (+998 71) 235 76 50 administrative department: (+998 71) 235 90 82 london: +44 (0) 20 3287 5671
this wall, surrounding tashkent from the east is the western tian-shan mountains.
add  information chimgan mountain resort skiing and snowboarding in uzbekistan.
chimgan pictures >>>
in chimgan there are several hotel complexes and cottages at your service, as well as a rental station with skis, snowboards and sleds.
the cost of single ride: rope tow - 0,7 us$ for adult, 0,3 us$ for children; chair-lift - 2,7 us$ for adult, 1,3 us$ for children.
the mountain skiing season here is not very long, it starts in december and lasts until mid-march.
in chimgan there are several hotel complexes and cottages at your service, as well as a rental station with skis,  snowboards and sleds.
"red" and "blue" routes are located on the slopes of the main peak's spur which is equipped with a rope-tow.
the main peak of the  area -big chimgan ( 3309 m) looks like the point of a giant  star from which, adorned by rugged peaks, rays of slopes scatter in all  directions.
uzbek restaurants and cafes, shashlik cafes and small shops are available not far from the slopes.
articles about chimgan in uzbek and central asian travel magazines: more chimgan pictures >>> about company | contact us | careers | newsroom orexca.com
chimgan information: peak "big chimgan": 3309 m rise of the chairlift: 800 m vertical rise: 385 m duration of chairlift ride: 10 min length of rope tow: 570 m vertical rise: 250 m duration of ride: about 10 min routes of the "chimgan" complex route for beginners, with a length of 1500 m and equipped with rope tows are considered "blue" routes (long, slightly sloping and easy routes) slalom routes with a length of 900 m, equipped with chairlifts are classified as "red" routes (medium level of difficulty)
following his example, the elite began to constructsummer houses and cottages, and later,sanatoriums and resorts.
you are also invited by the locals to ride horses and visit uzbek homes in the village ofchimgan.
these days, youth competitions in rock-climbing are held in this area.
rising to more than 3000 meters, they have an eternal blanket of snow that descends to the foot of the mountain in winter.
there are two existing roads leading from tashkent to chimgan; one lies along the valley of thegalvasay river, with its picturesque steep slopes.
near the hotel complex "chimgan" there is arestaurant, bar, several dance clubs, billiard club, tennis courts, and sauna.
"red" and  "blue" routes are located on the slopes of the main peak's spur which  is equipped with a rope-tow.
- central asia - general information about central asia - tourism in central asia - combined tours in central asian countries - transportation advisory - feedback about central asia tour - the great silk road - general information about great silk road - the great silk road map - unesco world heritage site - samarkand office of the unwto - silk road tours - kazakhstan - hotels in kazakhstan - tours to kazakhstan - visa support - flights to kazakhstan - kazakhstan photo gallery - azerbaijan - hotels in azerbaijan - tours to azerbaijan - visa support - flights to azerbaijan - azerbaijan photo gallery - turkmenistan - hotels in turkmenistan - tours to turkmenistan - visa support - flights to turkmenistan - turkmenistan photo gallery - kyrgyzstan - hotels in kyrgyzstan - tours to kyrgyzstan - visa support - flights to kyrgyzstan - kyrgyzstan photo gallery - tajikistan - hotels in tajikistan - tours to tajikistan - visa support - flights to tajikistan - tajikistan photo gallery - armenia - hotels in armenia - tours to armenia - visa support - flights to armenia - armenian photo gallery - georgia - hotels in georgia - tours to georgia - visa support - flights to georgia - georgia photo gallery orexca.com - your ultimate travel guide in central asia central asia | the great silk road | kazakhstan | azerbaijan | turkmenistan | kyrgyzstan | tajikistan | armenia | georgia | russia - about us - contact us - news - careers - photo gallery - video gallery add to favorite about uzbekistan | uzbekistan news | uzbekistan hotels | uzbekistan travel | testimonial | uzbekistan visa | flights | faq our highly trained, courteous english speaking staff is waiting to take your call.
ski slopes, ski lifts and options for snowboarding and skiing in uzbekistan description of the slopes, lifts and routes of chimgan: when you are in tashkent, before the sunrise, in the east, against the background of the blue sky you can see a lightblue silhouette.
85 km from the capital of uzbekistan, among the spurs of the chatkal ridge at a height of 1600 meters, the large tourist skiing complex "chimgan" is located.
near the hotel complex  "chimgan" there is arestaurant, bar, several  dance clubs, billiard club, tennis courts, and sauna.
add information chimgan mountain resort skiing and snowboarding in uzbekistan.
during the winter season, the residents of tashkent and  travelers from the other regions of uzbekistan and foreign countries come to  chimgan for skiing, snowboarding and sledding.
"black" and "red" slopes are located on the main slopes (there are 5 of them) which are served by chairlift.
the climate conditions of the chimgan tract are so wonderful that at the  end of the 19th century the governor general (during russian  tsarist times) built a house for himself in this area.
chimgan information: peak "big chimgan": 3309 m rise of the chairlift: 800 m vertical rise: 385 m duration of chairlift ride: 10 min length of  rope tow: 570 m vertical rise: 250 m duration of ride: about 10 min routes of the "chimgan" complex route for beginners, with a length of 1500 m and equipped with rope tows  are considered "blue" routes (long, slightly sloping and easy routes) slalom routes with a length of 900 m, equipped with chairlifts are  classified as "red" routes (medium level of difficulty)
charvak car "niva" - 25 us$ per day more useful links: hotels and accommodation in chimgan >>> hotels and accommodation in charvak >>> backcountry skiing in uzbekistan >>>
the routes of chimgan are equipped withchairlifts, a  rope tow and several ski tows, located on the different slopes of chimgan.
charvak car "niva" - 25 us$ per day more useful links: hotels and accommodation in chimgan   >>> hotels and accommodation in charvak   >>> backcountry skiing in uzbekistan   >>>
"black" and "red" slopes are located on the main slopes  (there are 5 of them) which are served by chairlift.
the main peak of the area -big chimgan ( 3309 m) looks like the point of a giant star from which, adorned by rugged peaks, rays of slopes scatter in all directions.
this road is considered to be the shortest route to the chimgan tract, and the second one passes over the chirchik river and khodjikent village - famous for its ancient tea house located in the shade ofgiant old plane trees that keep the centuries-old secrets of this area and petroglyphs from the ancient inhabitants.
there are also runs for beginners supplied with ski tows around the entire  resort.
in the second half of march, the descent becomes more difficult, due to the heavy and damp snow.
transfer: tashkent - chimgan - tashkent car ( daewoo "nexia") - 130 us$ mini-bus (ssangyong "istana", hyundai "starex", 8-14  passengers) -200 us$ transfer: charvak (hotel " charvak oromgohi") - chimgan -
next, the road rises above  the dam of thecharvak water reservoir where you'll have a  marvelous view of this highland water reservoir.
in the second  half of march, the descent becomes more difficult, due to the heavy and damp  snow.
transfer: tashkent - chimgan - tashkent car ( daewoo "nexia") - 130 us$ mini-bus (ssangyong "istana", hyundai "starex", 8-14 passengers) -200 us$ transfer: charvak (hotel " charvak oromgohi") - chimgan -
the routes of chimgan are equipped withchairlifts, a rope tow and several ski tows, located on the different slopes of chimgan.
you are also invited by the locals  to ride horses and visit uzbek homes in the village ofchimgan.
there are also runs for beginners supplied with ski tows around the entire resort.
this road is considered to be the shortest route to the chimgan tract, and the second one passes over the chirchik  river and khodjikent village - famous for its ancient  tea house located in the shade ofgiant old plane trees that keep the centuries-old secrets of this area and petroglyphs from the ancient inhabitants.
the climate conditions of the chimgan tract are so wonderful that at the end of the 19th century the governor general (during russian tsarist times) built a house for himself in this area.
chimgan is a "green" mountain, a wonderful place for skiing, travel of just relaxation .
there are two existing roads leading from tashkent to chimgan; one lies  along the valley of thegalvasay river, with its picturesque  steep slopes.
on clear winter days, in the same direction you can see asnow-white wall with blue shadows.