more about spring snowboarding how to wax your snowboard how to setup your snowboard stance all about snowboard lessons spring skiing and snowboarding - spring skiing and snowboarding safety tips men's spring fashion essentials spring skiing - dress for spring skiing japanese ski resorts - ski resorts in japan spring budget decorating - spring on a budget related video make fresh shrimp spring rolls more videos see all  about.com videos related searches first signs of spring pond  skimming signs of spring warm weather driving snow easter egg explore  snowboarding  must reads
and don't worry - you won't forget what you learned over the summer!
videos - - make fresh shrimp spring rolls related searches first signs of spring pond skimming signs of spring warm weather driving snow easter egg explore snowboarding must reads most popular - snowboarding lessons - getting ready to snowboard - what to wear snowboarding - before you buy a snowboard - how to set up your snowboard stance see more about: - snowboardstance - beforeyoubindings - snowboard clothing - top10mensfree - beforeyoubuysnowboardboots by category - spring snowboarding - snowboard resorts - winter activities - learning to snowboard - snowboarding competitions - snowboarding glossary - snowboard fitness/training - snowboard equipment - snowboard lessons - backcountry snowboarding - snowboard resorts & travel - snowboard clothing - professional snowboarders - companies & organizations
a part of the new york times company.
a good application of spring wax  can easily negate this "sticky effect.
warm weather  bbq's, pond skimming contests, costume parades, easter egg hunts and more are  usually on the list, all of which present a great opportunity to kick back and  enjoy the last few days of snow before a long summer!
more about spring snowboarding related articles - how to wax your snowboard - how to setup your snowboard stance - all about snowboard lessons related video - spring skiing and snowboarding - spring skiing and snowboarding safety tips - men's spring fashion essentials - spring skiing - dress for spring skiing - japanese ski resorts - ski resorts in japan - spring budget decorating - spring on a budget - - spring party table setting more videos see all about.com
the second thing to be  aware of is the importance of a proper wax application on the base of your  snowboard.
" once you've decided you're still up for a few more days on snow, be sure to check out your local resort's events page to see what's going on.
spring snow contains a high water content, which can make it difficult for the snowboard to slide properly.
a good application of spring wax can easily negate this "sticky effect.
by wearing several light layers of clothing, you'll be able to easily  shed layers throughout the day as temperatures warm up.
although many folks are quick to put their equipment away at the first  signs of spring, don't follow their lead!
nothing ruins a day of snowboarding more than being uncomfortable, be it too warm or too cold.
- about.com - sports - snowboarding snowboarding search - snowboarding - equipment - where to ride - instruction apply now to guide this site discuss in our forum spring snowboarding a reward for all those cold days!
warmer weather, longer days and softer snow are in  effect, as are fun events at resorts, discounted pricing on lift tickets and  lodging, as well as great deals on snowboard equipment.
although many folks are quick to put their equipment away at the first signs of spring, don't follow their lead!
snowboarding - about.com - sports - snowboarding - snowboard resorts & travel - spring snowboarding - snowboarding in spring - snowboarding also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - exercise database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
most resorts are open well into april, with deep base depths and a full slate of services still being offered.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
spring is also a great time to take a lesson or two, as class sizes are generally smaller, leading to more personalized instruction.
by wearing several light layers of clothing, you'll be able to easily shed layers throughout the day as temperatures warm up.
spring snow contains a high water content, which can make it  difficult for the snowboard to slide properly.
there are a few things that are important to remember when snowboarding  during the spring.
warmer weather, longer days and softer snow are in effect, as are fun events at resorts, discounted pricing on lift tickets and lodging, as well as great deals on snowboard equipment.
spring is also a great time to take a lesson or two, as class sizes are  generally smaller, leading to more personalized instruction.
the second thing to be aware of is the importance of a proper wax application on the base of your snowboard.
and don't worry -  you won't forget what you learned over the summer!
most resorts are open well into  april, with deep base depths and a full slate of services still being offered.
" once you've decided you're still up for a few more days on snow, be sure to  check out your local resort's events page to see what's going on.
from christopher del sole, former about.com guide see more about: - spring snowboarding - snowboard resorts - winter activities image courtesy okemo mountain resort okemo mountain resort spring snowboarding is like a reward from mother nature.
warm weather bbq's, pond skimming contests, costume parades, easter egg hunts and more are usually on the list, all of which present a great opportunity to kick back and enjoy the last few days of snow before a long summer!
after a season spent  battling the elements - cold weather, howling winds, driving snow, rain, and  other forms of precipitation - the spring season presents a kinder, gentler  form of snowboarding.
there are a few things that are important to remember when snowboarding during the spring.
image courtesy okemo mountain resort okemo mountain resort spring snowboarding is like a reward from mother nature.
nothing  ruins a day of snowboarding more than being uncomfortable, be it too warm or  too cold.
after a season spent battling the elements - cold weather, howling winds, driving snow, rain, and other forms of precipitation - the spring season presents a kinder, gentler form of snowboarding.
first, remember to layer your clothing effectively.