obesity, often accompanied by diabetes and heart disease, is just one more consequence of our high-sugar diet.
the average american has 140 to 150 pounds of sugar per person of sugar  added to their diets each year.
it can be as addictive as illegal drugs for many people.
another 20 percent of our calories come from  white flour, a simple carbohydrate, which acts a lot like sugar in our bodies.
sugar is highly addictive.
but now  many of the calories we consume come from sugar and white flour added by food  processing.
the leaves of the stevia rebaudiana plant  have a refreshing taste, zero glycemic index, zerocalories and zerocarbs.
eating almost twice our weight in sugar and white flour each year, it’s not surprising that we have become a nation of sugar addicts.
i really enjoyed this artical, i have been using splenda for years and thought it was ok and now i know different and will start using stevia.
enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email.
the more food is processed, the less healthy it becomes.
do not try to stop cold turkey as you may get withdrawal symptoms,  just like stopping other drugs.
your long-term goal should be to slowly decrease the sugar and simple carbohydrates (white flour, white rice, ect.)
obesity, often accompanied by diabetes and heart disease, is just one more  consequence of our high-sugar diet.
it is 25-30 times sweeter than sugar, and far more healthy.
eventually, your “credit line” runs out and you find yourself  exhausted, anxious, and moody.
but the fact is that sugar is everywhere  in our diet, and it is dumped into what we eat and drink during food  processing.
stevia is a south american herb which has been used  as a natural sweetener for centuries.
→ sugar – as addicting as drugs posted on march 24, 2012 | 2  comments sugar is highly addictive.
in fact,  sugar acts as an energy loan shark, taking away more energy than it gives.
notify me of new posts via email.
but the fact is that sugar is everywhere in our diet, and it is dumped into what we eat and drink during food processing.
you  know a whole grain because it will contain a fair amount of fiber.
in fact, sugar acts as an energy loan shark, taking away more energy than it gives.
do not try to stop cold turkey as you may get withdrawal symptoms, just like stopping other drugs.
sugar gives you an initial high and  then you crash several hours later, leaving you wanting more sugar.
like many other addictive substances, sugar may leave you feeling a bit better for a few hours, but then wreaks havoc on your body.
processing food  removes nutrients, minerals, and fiber.
cancel connecting to %s notify me of follow-up comments via email.
join 191 other followerspowered by wordpress.com
with one-third of our calories coming from sugar and white flour, and the stress of modern life increasing, we are seeing the makings of the perfect storm of medical problems.
another 20 percent of our calories come from white flour, a simple carbohydrate, which acts a lot like sugar in our bodies.
replace simple sugars with whole grains.
for thousands of years, humans ate sugar found naturally in their food.
there have not been any  reports of toxicity with stevia, which is consumed by millions of people daily.
processing food removes nutrients, minerals, and fiber.
for thousands of years, humans ate sugar  found naturally in their food.
eating almost twice our weight in sugar and white flour each year, it’s  not surprising that we have become a nation of sugar addicts.
sugar is a mood-altering substance, which is no  surprise to anyone with a sweet tooth.
fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: you are commenting using your wordpress.com account.
in addition to the immediate fatigue and  emotional problems, sugar also causes many long-term health problems.
i find stevia works well as a sweetener instead of sugar and artificial sweeteners.
with one-third of our calories coming from sugar and white flour,  and the stress of modern life increasing, we are seeing the makings of the  perfect storm of medical problems.
stevia is a south american herb which has been used as a natural sweetener for centuries.
you know a whole grain because it will contain a fair amount of fiber.
eating sugar causes blood sugar to surge, insulin levels to spike, and fat to get deposited throughout your body.
artificial sweeteners are just as bad and can have many side effects.
the leaves of the stevia rebaudiana plant have a refreshing taste, zero glycemic index, zerocalories and zerocarbs.
it is  25-30 times sweeter than sugar, and far more healthy.
join 191 other followers get every new post delivered to your inbox.
eat more fruit to satisfy your sweet tooth.
although the sugar industry sometimes tries to confuse the public by claiming that corn syrup is not sugar, it is a form of sugar as far as your body is concerned, and more toxic.
like many other  addictive substances, sugar may leave you feeling a bit better for a few hours,  but then wreaks havoc on your body.
although the sugar industry sometimes tries to  confuse the public by claiming that corn syrup is not sugar, it is a form of  sugar as far as your body is concerned, and more toxic.
your long-term goal should be to slowly  decrease the sugar and simple carbohydrates (white flour, white rice, ect.)
in addition to the immediate fatigue and emotional problems, sugar also causes many long-term health problems.
the more  fiber the better.
how much sugar is too much?
artificial  sweeteners are just as bad and can have many side effects.
but now many of the calories we consume come from sugar and white flour added by food processing.
the more fiber the better.
thanks dr. greenberg thanks for your feedback.
eating sugar causes blood sugar to surge,  insulin levels to spike, and fat to get deposited throughout your body.
our consumption of high-fructose corn syrup has risen 250 percent in the past fifteen years, and our rate of diabetes has increased approximately 45 percent during the same time period.
eventually, your “credit line” runs out and you find yourself exhausted, anxious, and moody.
it can be as addictive as illegal drugs for many  people.
the average american has 140 to 150 pounds of sugar per person of sugar added to their diets each year.
you are commenting using your twitter account.
sugar was not a problem; it was a treat.
our bodies simply were not designed to handle this massive load.
there have not been any reports of toxicity with stevia, which is consumed by millions of people daily.
you are commenting using your facebook account.
there are several  chronic medical problems associated with excess sugar in our diet including:  weight gain, chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia, chronic sinusitis,  irritable bowel syndrome and spastic colon, cancer, metabolic syndrome with  high cholesterol and hypertension, heart disease and stroke, adhd, and  anxiety/depression.
sugar gives you an initial high and then you crash several hours later, leaving you wanting more sugar.
sugar is a mood-altering substance, which is no surprise to anyone with a sweet tooth.
there are several chronic medical problems associated with excess sugar in our diet including: weight gain, chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia, chronic sinusitis, irritable bowel syndrome and spastic colon, cancer, metabolic syndrome with high cholesterol and hypertension, heart disease and stroke, adhd, and anxiety/depression.
our  consumption of high-fructose corn syrup has risen 250 percent in the past  fifteen years, and our rate of diabetes has increased approximately 45 percent  during the same time period.