some of my favorite sweet treats using natural sweeteners: raw carrot  cake grilled nectarines with honey & mint chocolate dipped mango  bites interesting breakdown of white sugar substitutes - i need to  test a few of these out!
stevia is available in a powder or liquid form, but be sure to get the green or brown liquids or powders, because the white and clear versions are highly refined.
question from amy in nyc: a few months ago i gave up splenda, mostly prompted by my friend asking me if i'd ever tasted it on it's own because it "tastes like chemicals."
step up and ask away (sarah@sarahwaldmanwellness.com).
it can be used in cooking, baking and beverages, does not affect blood sugar levels, and has zero calories.
that said, ideally you wouldn't put sugar in your coffee anymore but a few sprinkles a day really isn't a big deal.
for  cooking/baking: if you're cooking/baking my favorite sweetener is maple  syrup or other unprocessed, whole and natural foods.
splenda is horrible for you and should be avoided at all costs (as should all artificial sweeteners including sweet'n'low, equal, nutrasweet etc).
i love this  question because it reflects how totally confusing seemingly simple choices can  be.
am i still putting a bad product into my body?
for coffee/tea: try pure cane sugar.
so, my question is the following, what is  your favorite natural sweetener?
i am always confused!
find pure cane sugar for coffee but  try to cut back on sugar in coffee and if cooking/baking use maple syrup,  molasses, honey, sweet fruits and vegetables or pure cane sugar.
the team is happy to add them to my green team lemonade (in place of the usual simple syrup they would typically add).
try to test yourself and put a little less and less in each week and see if you can cut it down to just a little cane sugar or none at all.
i gave up my splenda addiction about a year ago and always bring my own stevia packets to starbucks every morning.
- sarah jan 9, 2012 08:23
so, my question is the following, what is your favorite natural sweetener?
the extract from stevia is 100 to 300 times sweeter than white sugar.
honey, agave, molasses, and cane sugar are also good substitutions but never cook with artificial sweeteners - your creations will taste like chemicals and your body will become intoxicated.
i can't wait to share them with you.
ps- i love this blog and remembering all the fun family visits we had over the years!
have you had luck with any of these substitutions?
question from amy in nyc: a few months ago i gave up splenda, mostly  prompted by my friend asking me if i'd ever tasted it on it's own because it  "tastes like chemicals."
which reminds me of something...i was recently in line at a coffee shop and the woman in front of me ordered a turbo iced coffee with 6 artificial sweeteners, blueberry flavored syrup, and whipped cream on top.
so seek out the green or brown unrefined stevia (may have to call a few specialty stores) but the real goal is to wean yourself off of it
stevia isn't approved by the fda in the us, canada, or the european union because of concerns re: toxicity levels so don't try it until they feed it to the mice for 20 years then tell us the mice died or grew long noses or something gross...oh poor mice!
| blog design by smitten blog designs
i think stevia is a better option than splenda so in general it is a good switch.
i would like to avoid adding extra calories to my morning addiction.
thank you everyone for sending along your  creative and thoughtful questions!
skip to main | skip to sidebar pages monday, september 19, 2011 ask sarah:
use items that are the least processed as possible.
but  maybe she's thinking choosing a particular sweetener is the healthier choice  because that's what the commercials tell her?
so, moral of the story.
substitution chart commonly used sweeteners equivalent to 1 cup of  white sugar sucanat 1 cup
posted by sarah at 8:07 pm labels: ask sarah, dessert, gluten-free, learning more, sarah, vegan, vegetarian 3 comments: add comment - the sentimental suitcase sep 20, 2011 07:15 am
but maybe she's thinking choosing a particular sweetener is the healthier choice because that's what the commercials tell her?
oh sarah this is so wonderful!
here is what i know: this leafy herb has been used for centuries by native south americans.
newer post older post home subscribe to: post comments (atom) - almonds (7) - anchovy (1) - anna (112) - appetizers (29) - apples (4) - apricots (2) - artichokes (8) - arugula (9) - asian (2) - ask sarah (6) - asparagus (6) - avocado (17) - baby (16) - bananas (6) - basil (16) - beans (40) - beets (6) - berries (6) - blueberries (5) - bok choy (3) - breads (22) - breakfast (31) - broccoli (4) - brussel sprouts (2) - buttermilk (1) - butternut squash (14) - cabbage (5) - capers (5) - carrot (18) - cauliflower (5) - celery (1) - chicken (1) - chickpeas (13) - chili (6) - chocolate (5) - cilantro (3) - coconut (13) - cookies (2) - corn (11) - couscous (3) - cranberries (2) - cucumber (13) - curry (15) - dessert (30) - dill (10) - dips (2) - dogs (2) - drinks (5) - eggplant (10) - eggs (18) - falafel (1) - fall (14)
thank you everyone for sending along your creative and thoughtful questions!
amy, the short answer is that  your friend is right.
stevia isn't approved by the fda in  the us, canada, or the european union because of concerns re: toxicity levels  so don't try it until they feed it to the mice for 20 years then tell us the  mice died or grew long noses or something gross...oh poor mice!
since i don't have much of a sweet tooth i  haven't experimented with other fun sounding items like rice syrup, barley  malt, and date sugar.
since i don't have much of a sweet tooth i haven't experimented with other fun sounding items like rice syrup, barley malt, and date sugar.
if the coffee shop doesn't have cane sugar then agave is also an okay choice.
skip to main  | skip to sidebar pages monday, september 19, 2011 ask sarah:
- farmers' market (13) - farro (1) - fava beans (3) - fennel (4) - figs (1) - fish (8) - focaccia (2) - fruit (4) - garlic (26) - gift ideas (2) - ginger (7) - gluten-free (162) - grape leaves (1) - grapefruit (4) - green beans (3) - halibut (1) - hash (1) - honey (7) - hot chocolate (1) - hummus (2) - ice cream (1) - indian (14) - italian (5) - kale (10) - learning more (17) - leeks (3) - lemon (26) - lentils (7) - lentls (1) - lettace (1) - lima beans (1) - lime (11) - lunch (23) - mache (1) - main dishes (119) - mango (7) - maple syrup (6) - mexican (13) - middle eastern (3) - millet (2) - mint (9) - muffins (6) - mushrooms (10) - nectarines (2) - nuts (16) - oats (5) - okra (1) - olives (6) - onion (31) - orange (6) - parsley (1) - parsnip (1) - pasta (21) - pea pods (1) - peaches (5) - peanut butter (3) - pears (4) - peas (6) - pecans (3) - peppers (9) - pesto (9) - pie (6) - pine nuts (8) - pineapple (1) - pizza (7) - plantains (2) - polenta (2) - pomegranate (1) - popcorn (1) - potatoes (16) - pumpkin (4) - pumpkin seeds (4) - quinoa (13) - radicchio (2) - radish (4) - raisins (2) - raspberry (1) - raw (13) - red pepper (16) - rice (15) - risotto (1) - rosemary (4) - saffron (1) - salad (34) - salmon (1) - sandwiches (6) - sangría (3) - sarah (181) - scallion (2) - shallots (5) - shrimp (1) - sides (99) - smoothie (2) - snacks (9) - soba noodles (7) - soup (15) - spinach (12) - strawberries (6) - string beans (1) - summer (26) - summer squash (4) - sunflower seeds (2) - sweet potatoes (14) - swiss chard (4) - swordfish (2) - tacos (5) - tahini (5) - tarragon (2) - tempeh (1) - toddler (21) - tofu (16) - tomato (34) - turnip (1) - vegan (195) - vegetarian (260) - victory garden (1) - vinaigrette (1) - walnuts (9) - watercress (4) - whipped cream (3) - yogurt (6) - zucchini (7) © 2011.
replydelete xo sam - hannahalicehall jan 8, 2012 04:52
stevia looks interesting and it sounds like a good idea although i feel like it's a new product and i don't really trust it yet.
replydelete i would love to know your thoughts on stevia (which oddly enough
i can't wait to hear from you!
stevia looks  interesting and it sounds like a good idea although i feel like it's a new  product and i don't really trust it yet.
if the coffee shop  doesn't have cane sugar then agave is also an okay choice.
substitution chart commonly used sweeteners equivalent to 1 cup of white sugar sucanat 1 cup unrefined sugar 1 cup date sugar 1 cup barley malt 1 ½ cup - reduce liquids by 1-2 tablespoons brown rice syrup 1 cup powder fructose ½ to 2/3 cup molasses ½ to ¾ cup concentrated fruit juices - varies honey ½ cup - reduce liquid by ½ cup & temperatures by 25 ¼ f *from wholesome foods every monday i'll be posting an "ask sarah" question submitted by a reader with my take on it.
that said, ideally you wouldn't put sugar in  your coffee anymore but a few sprinkles a day really isn't a big deal.
thanks so much for the information on sugars.
i'd guess there are hundreds of natural andless than natural sweeteners on the market - all promising to be the best for you in their own way.
and i'm already having a good time.
use items  that are the least processed as possible.
for cooking/baking: if you're cooking/baking my favorite sweetener is maple syrup or other unprocessed, whole and natural foods.
amy, the short answer is that your friend is right.
i'd guess there are hundreds of  natural andless than natural sweeteners on the market - all promising to  be the best for you in their own way.
honey,  agave, molasses, and cane sugar are also good substitutions but never cook with  artificial sweeteners - your creations will taste like chemicals and your body  will become intoxicated.
i still remember watching adventures in babysitting over and over again!
sweeteners this is the first monday of ask sarah
which reminds me of something...i was recently in line at a coffee shop and  the woman in front of me ordered a turbo iced coffee with 6 artificial  sweeteners, blueberry flavored syrup, and whipped cream on top.
some of my favorite sweet treats using natural sweeteners: raw carrot cake grilled nectarines with honey & mint chocolate dipped mango bites interesting breakdown of white sugar substitutes - i need to test a few of these out!
try to  test yourself and put a little less and less in each week and see if you can  cut it down to just a little cane sugar or none at all.
splenda is horrible for you and should be avoided at  all costs (as should all artificial sweeteners including sweet'n'low, equal,  nutrasweet etc).
find pure cane sugar for coffee but try to cut back on sugar in coffee and if cooking/baking use maple syrup, molasses, honey, sweet fruits and vegetables or pure cane sugar.
get creative with cooking  and incorporate sweet fruits and vegetables - add mashed bananas, dates, dark  chocolate, top something with applesauce, make sweet potato muffins!
a little here and there won't hurt but in general try to add less and less over the next month and see how you feel.
i have recently switched from brown rice syrup to maple syrup but would love to omit sugar forever!
get creative with cooking and incorporate sweet fruits and vegetables - add mashed bananas, dates, dark chocolate, top something with applesauce, make sweet potato muffins!
it's actually the least processed of granulated sugars and easiest on your body.
i think tastes different than truvia- although i believe it is supposed to be the same plant?)
i love this question because it reflects how totally confusing seemingly simple choices can be.
or is this all natural claim something i can trust?
it's actually the least processed of granulated  sugars and easiest on your body.