nutrasweet petitioned the fda in 1997 and received final  approval for a wide variety of sweetening purposes in 2002.
they advertise that magnasweet  "can be used in a wide range of applications to enhance, intensify and  potentiate flavors; augment or modify sweetness; eliminate or modify  bitterness; and mask unpleasant aftertastes."142
inulin may be standardized to an average dp of 22, which is considered to be long-chain inulin.159 these chains of fructose cannot be broken down by the human digestive system, but they can be broken down and consumed by the bacteria in the digestive tract.
149- www.ketofoods.com/updates/sugaralcohol_article.html 150- www.dainet.de/fnr/ctvo/byproducts/heming_hbi.doc 151-
as such, it has always been a part of the human diet, but  has only been available as an isolated ingredient since 1995.
www.gnc.com/health_notes/food_guide/non_nutritive_artificial_sweeteners.htm 69.www.mercola.com/2000/dec/3/sucralose_dangers.htm 70.
for example, given the choice between treating a child’s ear infection with a course of antibiotics or with administration of a therapeutic dose of xylitol, the latter option would certainly be preferable.
the lo han fruit has been used by local people  in southern provinces of china for centuries as a sweetener and a medicinal  herb for the treatment of lung congestion, colds, sore throats and minor  stomach and intestinal problems.
(stevioside, the most commonly-used extractive of stevia, is about 300  times sweeter than sucrose.)120 stevia leaves and stevioside are virtually calorie-free, beneficial in the  prevention of cavities and do not trigger a rise in blood sugar.
these people must monitor or  eliminate their intake of phenylalanine, which also occurs naturally in certain  foods.
glycerine  (which is technically known as a trihydric alcohol) definitely deserves to be  included in the macronutrient arena, even though it defies clear categorization.
to generalize, all of these substances share a relatively limited degree of market share, name recognition, general availability and usage by the food industry or at-home consumers, but they are still worth reviewing.
a number of compounds (dubbed as mogrosides) were isolated from the fruit, of which mogrosides iv and v were determined to be the principle sweet constituents.
and finally we come to the hodgepodge category of "what is left," a few other sweet plants and herbs that have been and are still being tested for possible use as commercial sweeteners.
http://members.shaw.ca/duncancrow/inulin_probiotic.html 125.
www.sweetpoison.com/aspartame-sweeteners.html 51.
there is a very long historical record of the safety of licorice as a food  and a medicinal herb.
molecules of glycerine form the structural backbone  of nearly all vegetable oils and animal fats.
while  fos products are commercially available from different sources, the author  recommends an inulin product called chicolin, from bioquest imports  international, inc. (www.greenalive.com/chicolin.html).
those who are trying to avoid carbohydrates and burn  body fat should also know that sugar alcohols will immediately take the body  out of ketosis, the state wherein fat reserves rather than dietary calories are  being metabolized. . .
(it should be noted that the extensive scientific studies conducted on stevia by the japanese have not indicated any toxicity or reproductive hazards.)135 in september of 1995, after much thankless effort on the part of many parties, the fda finally relented by revising their 1991 import alert with the issuance of the dietary supplement health and education act.
the fda and ada consider nutritive sweeteners to include anything  from raw honey, pure maple syrup, molasses, sorghum or other nutritious  options, to such dietary dead-ends as white sugar, high fructose corn syrup and  concentrated fruit juices.
we’ll  stick with acesulfame k for our purposes!
while the general popularity of acesulfame-k was on the rise, a few voices began to raise questions.
does it remain stabile or react with other substances to  form new compounds?
www.gnc.com/health_notes/food_guide/non_nutritive_artificial_sweeteners.htm 32.www.btinternet.com/~amcbryan/aspartame/comment1a.htm 33.
information taken from wisdom natural brands stevia product brochures 115.
nhdc is grouped as a flavonoid, yet it has not been discovered anywhere in a naturally-occurring state.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor)
clearly, sucralose consumption poses potential hazards which have not  been sufficiently acknowledged or studied.
from this point on (beginning with thaumatin) is what the author likes to term as "the best options," although not all of them are readily available options at this time for various reasons.
consequently, there is a great deal to be said on the subject of aspartame.
it accumulates  within the cells, and reacts with cellular proteins such as enzymes and dna.
it is  formed as a result of changes to lactose as heat is applied.
it does not affect blood sugar levels, and so is suitable for diabetics and hypoglycemics.
in 1901, queeny cashed in his personal savings and took out a  loan to found a new corporation for the sole purpose of producing its own  saccharin for the us market.
developed by pharmaceutical  giant pfizer, alitame is sold under the name aclame in several countries,  including australia, mexico, new zealand, china, indonesia, colombia and chile.
while technically  classified by the fda as a carbohydrate, this placement was made by default  only.
the food industry’s primary interest in glycerine is as a moisturizing/softening/texture agent, but it is also used in skin moisturizers, lotions, deodorants, soaps, makeup, toothpaste, pharmaceuticals, paper manufacturing, inks for printing, textiles, plastics, electronic components, paint brush cleaners, topical medications for male erectile dysfunction and in the manufacture of nitroglycerine (the main component of dynamite).154 there are over 1500 end-use applications for glycerine.155
pfizer applied for fda approval of  alitame in 1986, but has yet to receive a conclusive ruling.91 any sweetener  that may be described as "similar to aspartame" deserves a red flag  of caution, but no commentary of any detail is readily available at the present  time.
they chose it due to the fact  that thaumatin molecules have a very unusual crystalline structure, suitable to  the research that nasa was doing at the time.)114 immediately grasping upon the potential of this newly-identified sweetener,  the british sugar multinational tate & lyle established massive katemfe  plantations in ghana, liberia and malaysia in the 1970s.
it is also referred to as a,a-trehalose, mushroom  sugar or mycose, but its proper chemical name is a-d-glucopyranosyl  a-d-glucopyranoside.
both the metabolites and unchanged absorbed sucralose are excreted in urine, but some absorbed sucralose has been found to concentrate in the liver, kidney and gastrointestinal tract.76 not only does sucralose break down within the digestive system, but, as the fda notes, "[it] may hydrolyze in some food products…[and] the resulting hydrolysis products may also be ingested by the consumer."
147- www.chifaisgourmet.com/cflohanpage.htm 148- "lo han: a natural sweetener comes of age" article from whole foods, june 2003, by peilin guo and dallas clouatre.
the stevia was all  burned and the company was instructed to cease and desist from any further  importation.
similar to aspartame, alitame is composed of amino acids, including l-aspartic acid, d-alanine and 2,2,4,4-tetramethylthietanyl amine.90
xylitol has the additional claims of increasing absorption of b-vitamins and calcium, re-mineralizing tooth enamel and fighting/preventing ear infections,99 as well as possibly contributing to fresher breath, greater athletic performance, and recovery from sinus infections.100
this solves certain difficulties that the  food industry encounters when trying to mechanically blend sweeteners.
the fda has no apparent interest in  pressing the issue.
[the] fda allows these nutritive sweeteners to be labeled as having fewer kilocalories per gram than other nutritive sweeteners. . . .
however, some researchers dispute these claims.
may recounts that he was told in a phone conversation with the fda that (once again) the nutrasweet company had been behind the complaint.
but this wasn't the end of sunrider's legal problems with stevia.
www.mercola.com/2000/dec/3/sucralose_dangers.htm 74.
flaws notwithstanding, several pre-approval tests still indicated  potential toxicity, although this was written off by the company as  insignificant.
these people may experience intestinal distress after consuming foods containing trehalose, whether they be natural sources of the sugar or not.
mother nature clearly did not intend for us to have to suffer from the sugar-free blues.
some additional sweeteners are tagalose,  trehalose and neohesperidin dihyrochalcone (nhdc).
available online atwww.stevia.net/newagesweet.htm 134-
in 1996, spherix granted a license to arla foods of denmark to produce and market the sweetener.
the first of these two was conducted in uruguay by a purdue university  biochemist named joseph kuc.
glycerine does not qualify as a fat since it does not contain fatty acids, and it does not qualify as a protein because it has no amino acids, so the only remaining macronutrient category is the carbohydrates.
(don’t these scientists wash  their hands after a hard day at the lab?)
there has never  been a single documented case of adverse reaction to the consumption of  licorice root in its whole, ground-up form.139 this is not quite the case with  the extracted glycyrrhizin, which is still very safe for most people but may  cause hypertension, edema, sodium retention and mild depletion of potassium  when consumed excessively or by certain sensitive individuals.
"75 the reason for this host of side effects is not fully understood.
lactitol frequently finds its way into blends with more potent sweeteners, such as aspartame, saccharin and acesulfame-k. whatever their intended usage, all of the sugar alcohols are touted as being safe for diabetics and hypoglycemics, lower in calories than sugar, and non-contributory towards tooth decay and the growth of intestinal yeasts.
while the fda interprets this study as casting reasonable doubt upon the safety of stevia, kuc himself has gone on record as saying that his results are not supportive of these claims.
after reviewing the data provided by hoechst’s product safety tests, the center for science in the public interest (cspi) concluded that the company had not done an adequate job with the testing and had ignored problematic data.
dr.  michael friedman, then the acting head of the fda, later accepted a high-level  position at monsanto, the corporation which was to purchase the nutrasweet  company from searle in 1985.14 monsanto has also brought the world such  atrocities as agent orange, pcbs, dioxins, recombinant bovine growth hormone  (rbgh), round-up herbicide and a host of genetically modified foods.15
however, spherix is currently arbitrating a legal dispute against arla foods  concerning the new sweetener, thus delaying the entry of tagatose into the us  market.
two rat studies suggest that the additive might cause  cancer. . .
to generalize, all of these  substances share a relatively limited degree of market share, name recognition,  general availability and usage by the food industry or at-home consumers, but  they are still worth reviewing.
it is also released into the body when a person metabolizes body-fat reserves.
exercising after consuming these  types of products may put one at risk for heat stroke, muscle cramping and  cardiovascular problems.
the plant is also referred to as bertoni, a nod of remembrance toward moises s. bertoni, the italian botanist who first studied stevia in 1899.
more correctly, there are five separate sweet proteins which may be isolated and derived from katemfe berries--thaumatins i, ii, iii, a and b.
concentrated fruit juice) and. . .
nutrasweet petitioned the fda in 1997 and received final approval for a wide variety of sweetening purposes in 2002.
(many herbalists recommend against long-term, excessive consumption of ground licorice root due to concerns that it also may cause hypertension and edema in some people.)
its widespread usage has  left an extensive trail of complaints and documentation of its negative side  effects.
in addition, large doses of acetoacetamide, a breakdown product,  have been shown to affect the thyroid in rats, rabbits and dogs."59
www.globalsweet.com/polyols.asp 94.
by the time the war ended, america and its european allies had grown quite fond of the new sweetener.
the plant is also referred to as bertoni, a nod of remembrance  toward moises s. bertoni, the italian botanist who first studied stevia in 1899.
meanwhile, a st. louis company by the name of meyer brothers drug company had been importing saccharin from germany, and an enterprising young employee by the name of john f. queeny immediately recognized the sweetener’s great potential.
will sucralose begin to appear in our water supplies, just as  some drugs [such as antibiotics] are beginning to be found? . . .
(a particularly beneficial subset of the flavonoids is the  bioflavonoids, which are sometimes collectively called "vitamin p.")
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 158- http://members.shaw.ca/duncancrow/inulin_probiotic.html 159- ibid 160- www.vitaminretailer.com/vr/articles/probiotics.htm 161-
we will all see soon enough how neotame is received by the  public.80,81,82 as a concluding remark on all five of the fda-approved non-nutritive  sweeteners, it should be noted that many animal studies on these products only  yield negative results when test animals are fed the equivalent of several  hundred artificially sweetened products daily.
it was only as recently as the early 20th century that lo han has come to the attention of the western scientific community, and it has undergone several changes in its official botanical classification.
thaumatin thaumatin is a naturally-occurring sweet protein (not a carbohydrate at  all) derived from the berries of the west african katemfe plant, also called  the sweet prayer plant and the miracle plant, botanically known as thaumatococcus daniellii.
this may be why consumption of tagatose in large amounts reportedly causes gastrointestinal distress, including diarrhea, nausea and flatulence.
information taken from a personal e-mail exchange with overseal color, inc. 113.
notwithstanding the  baseless nature of this complaint, sunrider knew that they did not have the  economic resources to fight a legal battle with nutrasweet.
if the final  product has 50 percent or more of maltitol or sorbitol, it is named accordingly  as either a maltitol syrup or sorbitol syrup.
www.archive.hoechst.com/english_3er/publikationen/future/ernaehr/art8.html 56.alternative sweeteners, third edition.
while natives of paraguay have used the stevia plant for many centuries,  the western world has also had a few centuries of experience with this sweet  plant, dating back much earlier than bertoni’s time.
this is a potential concern to those who consume a lot of low-carb, energy bar types of foods.
to further dispute the manufacturer’s claims, research indicates that about 20 to 30 percent of the absorbed sucralose is metabolized.
http://aspartametruth.com/92symptoms.html 25.
it is also used in other countries in sweetener blends, chewing  gums, vitamin tablets, baked goods, dairy products and pharmaceuticals.117
the canadian government responded by immediately banning all use of saccharin in food and beverages.43 to forestall a possible fda ban on the popular sweetener, congress passed the saccharin study and labeling act.
webster’s dictionary of the english language: deluxe encyclopedic edition. 1991.
similar to the situation with aspartame after it first entered the market, there are currently no independent, long-term studies on the effects of sucralose consumption.73 of the few human studies which have been conducted, one focusing on diabetics using sucralose showed "a statistically significant increase in glycosylated hemoglobin (hba1c), which is a marker of long-term blood glucose levels and is used to assess glycemic control in diabetic patients."
commercially available tagatose is synthetically produced from whey.
www.eatright.org/public/governmentaffairs/92_adap0598.cfm 97.
this is  possible due to the fact that some high-intensity sweeteners form positively  charged ions in certain solutions, whereas others form negatively charged ions.
one of these conditions is  metabolic acidosis, which can lead to acid reflux and an increased risk of  cancer of the larynx.
next on the list is neohesperidin dihydrochalcone, usually abbreviated to  nhdc or neohesperidin dc.
sulfonamide compounds have been  shown to cause dermatological reactions in those who are allergic to sulfa  drugs, especially in children.
fahlberg later applied for and received german patents on saccharin and moved his operation to westerhusen, germany.
the t-shirts are intended to utilize this same property to  keep a person cooler in warm weather.101
both sugar alcohols and non-nutritive  sweeteners can replace sugar sweeteners and are therefore termed macronutrient  substitutes, sugar substitutes, sugar replacers, or alternative sweeteners.
it was discovered by accident in 1965 by mr. james schlatter, a scientist who was working on new drugs to treat ulcers, when he licked his fingers to pick up a piece of paper and accidentally tasted the intense sweetness of the compound he had created.
if the final product has 50 percent or more of maltitol or sorbitol, it is named accordingly as either a maltitol syrup or sorbitol syrup.
it is here in the bowels that the "passive diffusion" mentioned by the ada takes place, meaning that the presence of the sugar alcohols draws water into the bowels.
cyclamate was discovered in 1937 by michael sveda, a graduate student at  the university of illinois, working on the synthesis of anti-pyretic  (anti-fever) drugs.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 87.
www.gnc.com/health_notes/food_guide/non_nutritive_artificial_sweeteners.htm 29.www.finchcms.edu/biochem/walters/sweet/history.html 30.
it is  estimated that neotame could replace up to 50 percent of the current market  share for aspartame.
for some clarity on the issue, we shall quote from the american dietetic  association (ada): "although sweeteners can be grouped a number of  different ways, the grouping "nutritive" and  "non-nutritive" acknowledges a difference in the amount of energy  provided by sweeteners.
one liter of a  beverage sweetened with aspartame may contain as much as 56 milligrams of  methanol.18 other sources also link aspartame consumption with  parkinson’s disease, alzheimer’s disease and the gulf war syndrome  experienced by u.s. soldiers after serving in iraq during operation: desert  storm.19 according to dr. christine lydon, an accomplished aspartame researcher:  "aspartame’s breakdown products, or metabolites, are even scarier  than its components.
the neurotoxic effects of these amino acids, when consumed as isolates, can be linked to headaches, mental confusion, balance problems and possibly seizures.
it is estimated that neotame could replace up to 50 percent of the current market share for aspartame.
licorice root has  been used since ancient egyptian times to treat upset stomachs, chest  infections and coughs, and has also been used by various cultures to ward of  demons and invoke mystical powers.138 licorice root may be used in its unadulterated, ground-up form, or the  primary sweetening compound may be extracted.
this is possible due to the fact that some high-intensity sweeteners form positively charged ions in certain solutions, whereas others form negatively charged ions.
the food industry’s primary interest in  glycerine is as a moisturizing/softening/texture agent, but it is also used in  skin moisturizers, lotions, deodorants, soaps, makeup, toothpaste,  pharmaceuticals, paper manufacturing, inks for printing, textiles, plastics,  electronic components, paint brush cleaners, topical medications for male  erectile dysfunction and in the manufacture of nitroglycerine (the main  component of dynamite).154 there are over 1500 end-use applications for  glycerine.155 the issue of how glycerine is digested and used by the body is complex.
according to the splenda website, "sucralose, is made from sugar  through a patented, multi-step process that selectively replaces three  hydrogen-oxygen groups on the sugar molecule with three chlorine atoms.
this would  have left the fda in the position of having to publicly defend its actions,  something which they were unwilling to do.
the fda also admits that aspartic acid has the potential to cause brain damage at very high doses, but they assure us that "under normal intake levels, the brain’s mechanism for controlling aspartic acid levels ensures no adverse effects."
dried lo han fruit is frequently  available in chinese and oriental markets, or may be ordered online at www.chinanaturalproduct.com/whole_dried_lo_han_kuo_fruit.htm.
in 1977, canadian scientists found that high doses of saccharin seemed to  cause cancer in laboratory rats.
(the fda and nutrasweet both deny that nutrasweet ever had any involvement in the fda’s actions.)
may, who had only been selling between $100 and $200 worth of stevia per month, says that he was also told by one fda agent that "if [the fda] wanted to make carrots [be] against the law, we could do it."128
at this point, a number of companies and individuals began to seriously address the task of seeking fda approval through formal, procedural channels.
since it is entirely likely that both of them will all be approved at  some point in the future, they must be considered as well.
thaumatin is a naturally-occurring sweet protein (not a carbohydrate at all) derived from the berries of the west african katemfe plant, also called the sweet prayer plant and the miracle plant, botanically known as thaumatococcus daniellii.
but there is no argument about the fact that phenylalanine, the largest component of aspartame by weight, is a danger to people who have a hereditary condition called phenylketonuria (pku).
stevia, another natural sweetener derived from a plant, is becoming a well-known option in many u.s. health food stores.
when the final product contains 50 percent or more of  hydrogenated glucose, it is called a hydrogenated glucose syrup.
flaws notwithstanding, several pre-approval tests still indicated potential toxicity, although this was written off by the company as insignificant.
(remember, chemically speaking saccharin is called an o-toluene sulfonamide derivative.)
tagatose has the exact same chemical formula as ordinary fructose, but the molecular structures of the two are slightly different.
this ban was lifted 5 years later with the advent of the first world war.37
in an amazing display of sweetening power, neotame hits the scales at 8000 times sweeter than sucrose, and its chemical name is a mouthful--n-[n-(3,3-dimethylbutyl)-l-a-aspartyl]-l-phenylalanine 1-methyl ester.
in 1991 the fda began to escalate the whole matter to the level of a war on drugs, issuing "import alert number 45-06," which declared stevia an "unsafe food additive" and prohibited its import into the u.s. (it is interesting to note that the text of this document mentions that stevia "has been used throughout history" without any mention of negative side
in fact, it is one of the most commonly-used herbs worldwide.
www.cspinet.org/foodsafety/labeling_sorbitol.html 105.
the fda has also alluded to  several south american studies which have supposedly questioned the safety of  stevia, although they admit that they have never even been able to acquire  copies of these studies.
by 1977 the maruzen kasei co., ltd. started  extracting stevioside on a commercial basis in japan.
glycerine does not qualify as a fat since it does not contain fatty  acids, and it does not qualify as a protein because it has no amino acids, so  the only remaining macronutrient category is the carbohydrates.
tests performed by the japanese food sanitation council  have found that as much as 40 percent of ingested sucralose is absorbed.
consumed in  moderation as part of a nutrient-dense diet that includes plenty of good  quality fats, these mineral-rich, naturally sweet foods allow us to enjoy the  sweet taste while nourishing the body at the same time.
abbott has been hard at work ever since 1970, petitioning the fda for re-approval in 1973, 1976 and 1982, and also requesting special hearings on the matter in 1977 and ’78.
be categorized as sugar replacers because they can replace sugar sweeteners, usually on a one-to-one basis; offer less energy; and offer potential health benefits, such as reduced glycemic response and reduced dental caries risk.
it has been given gras status in the u.s., but is only allowed as a flavor enhancer in flavoring agents, animal feeds, oral care products and beverages.
these candy "licorices" are typically mixtures of corn syrup, sugar, flour, margarine and artificial flavorings.)
largely at the insistence of these sugar producers, the german government enacted new laws which made saccharin available only to pharmacies for use in prescription medicines.33
the burden of proving that such synthetic compounds are safe, from the process of their creation through the human digestive system and into our environment, should fall upon the purveyors of these chemicals.
[ultimately] the ecological impact of this new chemical being introduced into the environment is unknown.
its widespread usage has left an extensive trail of complaints and documentation of its negative side effects.
despite these stirring words of reassurance, some stubborn people remained unconvinced.
there has never been a single documented case of adverse reaction to the consumption of licorice root in its whole, ground-up form.139 this is not quite the case with the extracted glycyrrhizin, which is still very safe for most people but may cause hypertension, edema, sodium retention and mild depletion of potassium when consumed excessively or by certain sensitive individuals.
sugar alcohols are  not broken down in the stomach, so they make their way intact into the bowels.
in the mid 1980s, representatives of an "anonymous firm" lodged a trade complaint with the fda, charging that the celestial seasonings company was using stevia extracts in four products which were therefore "adulterated."
the study documented only very scant information about the quantities of stevia which the mice consumed and how it was prepared.
once this change of course was established, the fda  dropped its embargo and relinquished all concerns over its "suspicion of  adulteration.
adverse symptoms of excessive glycyrrhizin consumption generally disappear shortly after a person lowers their dietary intake of products containing the sweetener.
key rat tests were afflicted by disease in the animal colonies; a mouse study was several months too brief and did not expose animals during gestation.
it is also released into the body when a person metabolizes  body-fat reserves.
the reader is strongly advised to thoroughly research these plants  before attempting to ingest any part(s) of them.
chlorinated molecules, which are used as the basis for pesticides such as ddt, tend to accumulate in body tissues.
at this point, a number of companies and individuals began to seriously  address the task of seeking fda approval through formal, procedural channels.
aspartame is 180 times sweeter than sucrose (common table sugar).6
www.ketofoods.com/updates/sugaralcohol_article.html 104.
this section has been  updated from what originally appeared in the print edition ofwise traditions , winter 2003.
there are also some exciting possibilities brewing in canada, where stevia may  be sold as a tea but not a sweetener.
for some clarity on the issue, we shall quote from the american dietetic association (ada): "although sweeteners can be grouped a number of different ways, the grouping "nutritive" and "non-nutritive" acknowledges a difference in the amount of energy provided by sweeteners.
it  has reportedly captured over 50% of the japanese sweetening market,125 even  though the japanese technically classify it as a food additive.
a person ingesting the tdi for some chemical may find that it causes cancer, or immune system or neurological problems, after many years or decades of use.
however, it is still used in 50 countries around the  world--the major producers and exporters are located in china, indonesia,  taiwan and spain86--so it almost certainly still finds its way into the us via  products from these countries.
it was first identified as a constituent in the ergot of rye in 1832, even before the discovery of saccharin.
(ergot is a fungus known to afflict rye and other cereal grains and grasses.)
www.chemopharma.com/citrosa.htm 112.
atonietta corti (editor) 111.
tagatose is 92 percent as sweet as sucrose and is said to occur "naturally" in heated cow’s milk and some other presumably heat-treated dairy products. . .
hayashibara’s trehalose is the only source currently in production, and japan is by far the largest consumer of products containing trehalose.
he wrote of the fruit's "extraordinary power on the palate," and clearly identified its capabilities "to enhance flavours and mask off-notes."112
fitness-conscious people may appreciate glycerine because it increases blood volume (thus helping delay dehydration when exercising), enhances temperature regulation and is claimed to improve physical performance in the heat.
the berries were frozen and shipped to its factories in the uk.
in 1974 the food and drug administration gave its first halting approval to aspartame, then a product of pharmaceutical giant g.d. searle & company.
in spite of the fda go-ahead, cspi and a handful of independent scientists  maintain their objections to acesulfame-k, citing inadequate testing and the  fact that previous tests suggest serious problems, including possible  carcinogenicity.
this author recommends against willingly acting as a guinea pig for yet another questionable product--read on for better options later in this article.
while sugar alcohols may indeed occur in nature, their usage as sweeteners also suffers from the same problem as many other sweeteners, pharmaceutical drugs and other substances today--one single factor from a natural food item is being isolated from its normal co-constituents and consumed at levels that are difficult to obtain when eating the food item itself.
of these, the author’s two product recommendations are slim & sweet from wisdom natural brands ( www.wisdomherbs.com) and sweetlife from chi fai’s inc. ( www.chifaisgourmet.com/cfsweetlife2.htm).
[ultimately]  the ecological impact of this new chemical being introduced into the  environment is unknown.
trehalose occurs naturally in a number of foods, including honey, wines, sherries, breads, lobster, crab, prawns, brine shrimp, various edible fungi (including commercially-grown mushrooms), insects, baker’s yeast and brewer’s yeast.
according  to the ada website: "all [sugar alcohols] are absorbed slowly and  incompletely from the intestine by passive diffusion.
the fda and ada consider nutritive sweeteners to include anything from raw honey, pure maple syrup, molasses, sorghum or other nutritious options, to such dietary dead-ends as white sugar, high fructose corn syrup and concentrated fruit juices.
the above quotation lists the official, generally agreed upon thresholds for sorbitol and mannitol, but each sugar alcohol has its own threshold.
glycyrrhizin is between 50 and 100 times sweeter than sucrose, but it also imparts a definite (and familiar) aftertaste of licorice.
in 1903, the  monsanto corporation began to ship saccharin to a little-known company in  georgia called coca-cola.
the issue of how glycerine is digested and used by the body is complex.
while it is not generally recommended that glycerine be consumed undiluted,  there are a number of health benefits to consuming it as a component of foods  or beverages.
(the reader  is advised to recall that this was the same time period during which g d searle  & company and monsanto were winning major victories toward fda approval of  aspartame.
one of these conditions is metabolic acidosis, which can lead to acid reflux and an increased risk of cancer of the larynx.
to forestall  a possible fda ban on the popular sweetener, congress passed the saccharin  study and labeling act.
when we took  them over to the area where we had the stevia, the inspector dug out a bunch of  red tags and started slapping them on everything."
http://presidiotex.com/bressler/ 9.
one  of these smaller firms was a utah-based nutritional products company by the  name of sunrider international.
commercially  available tagatose is synthetically produced from whey.
the food industry, in their  never-ending quest to increase their profits and jeopardize the safety of our  foods, later found a way to use genetic engineering and gene splicing to  produce the sweet thaumatin proteins from bacterial cultures, thus by-passing  the need to cultivate, harvest, transport and process any katemfe berries.
apologists for non-nutritive sweeteners point to this as a way of dismissing negative test data.
a number of compounds (dubbed  as mogrosides) were isolated from the fruit, of which mogrosides iv and v were  determined to be the principle sweet constituents.
in the early 1950s, abbott began to market cyclamate tablets as diabetic-friendly sweeteners.
and, as it is not metabolized by the body, it is excreted unchanged in the urine.52 it was discovered in 1967 by a german chemist, karl clauss, who was working with derivatives of acetoacetic acid.53 in what should now be a familiar theme, the sweetness of one particular derivative revealed itself one day when he licked his finger to pick up a piece of paper.54 at the time, mr. clauss was employed at a german chemical company by the name of the hoechst group.
these five are collectively referred to as thaumatin in a  generalized sense.
saccharin is the most thoroughly  tested of all the non-nutritive sweeteners--more than 2374 studies have been  done, with aspartame coming in second at 598.49 even the most staunch critics  are left to admit that no one has been able to draw a definite link between  saccharin consumption (even at high levels) and cancer in humans.
it has still  not been satisfactorily resolved whether or not cyclamate is a co-carcinogen  with other substances or promotes tumor growth, and thus it is still pending  re-approval.88 alitame of alitame, there is very little to report.
according to the american dietetics association: "[sugar alcohols] can . . .
the low level of sweetness has limited the applications of trehalose as a  sweetening agent, but it has not stopped the food industry from finding other  uses.
(this fermentation of intestinal bacteria can lead to or exacerbate problems with candida and other yeast problems.)
the low level of sweetness has limited the applications of trehalose as a sweetening agent, but it has not stopped the food industry from finding other uses.
hereafter, any mention of fos is meant to include inulin as well, unless otherwise specified.)
as more and more us  sugar was being sent across the ocean to the soldiers in europe, the sweetening  needs of the populace at home were met with cheap and plentiful saccharin.
critics derided the substance as having no nutritional value and (ironically enough) no calories, and some people doubted that the new sweetener was safe.
nhdc does not function well as the sole sweetening agent in food items due to its slow onset of sweetness and a lingering menthol or licorice aftertaste.
www.gene.ch/gentech/1998/may-jul/msg00060.html 116.
as mr. nielson himself recalls, "i thought it was  strange because they asked specifically to see the stevia [whereas normally]  they would just go through and have a look at everything….
this suggestion was met with significant opposition from a  public which had become greatly enamored with the concept of artificial  sweeteners and had just lost their only other option at the time, cyclamate.
in 1970, the fda imposed a total ban on the use of  cyclamate within the u.s.
antonietta corti (editor) 79.
www.finchcms.edu/cms/biochem/walters/sweet/history.html 85.
the talin company changed hands several times and underwent a  corporate merger before being acquired by the braes group, a european natural  food ingredients company.
trehalose is not commercially available to consumers anywhere at this time.108 nhdc
www.emperorsherbologist.com/steviahist.shtml 118.
, what happens to it next is simply a matter for speculation.
clearly, sucralose consumption poses potential hazards which have not been sufficiently acknowledged or studied.
the  moratorium was extended seven times, until 1991 when the fda decided it was no  longer suspicious of saccharin as a serious threat.45 technically, ever since  that time the fda has given saccharin something of a probationary status,  allowing it equal footing with the other three non-nutritive sweeteners but  still classifying it as an "anticipated human carcinogen,"46 whatever  that means.
the fda stonewalled this information and dragged their feet until sadler, the ahpa and pendergast were finally forced to drop the matter, which was draining much time and money.
the so-called nutritive sweeteners include a class of substances known  variously as sugar alcohols, polyols, polyalcohols or polyhydric acids.
it is likely for this reason that some people experience gastric distress after consuming foods containing nonspecific blends of fos--if one already has a problem with the balance of the intestinal flora, a nonspecific blend of fos may exacerbate the problem.161 aside from feeding the bacteria of the digestive tract, all forms of fos act as dietary fiber.
the neurotoxic  effects of these amino acids, when consumed as isolates, can be linked to  headaches, mental confusion, balance problems and possibly seizures.
it almost certainly still finds its way into the us via products from these countries.
while neotame has not yet been introduced into any markets, critics surmise that all of the toxic effects of aspartame and more will plague consumers of neotame.
some additional sweeteners are tagalose, trehalose and neohesperidin dihyrochalcone (nhdc).
while sugar alcohols are certainly the lesser of two evils when compared to the non-nutritive sweeteners, they should be consumed with prudence if at all.
alike, whereas standardized extracts of long-chain inulin will selectively nourish only the friendly flora.
"20 supporters of aspartame claim that the levels of methanol are not high  enough to be worrisome and that phenylalanine and aspartic acid are of only  limited concern.
the product they created, at an impressive 600 times sweeter than sucrose, would be known as sucralose and marketed as splenda.
according to a former searle employee, rumsfeld told them that "no matter what, he would see to it that aspartame would be approved. . .
www.chifaisgourmet.com/cflohanpage.htm 123.
it was only as recently as the early 20th century that lo han has come to  the attention of the western scientific community, and it has undergone several  changes in its official botanical classification.
just because they have not been  commercially utilized doesn’t necessarily mean that one could not attempt  to cultivate them and do some personal experimentation.
the rest, as they say, is history.34,35 saccharin’s early history in the us was somewhat rocky.
additional concerns with sugar alcohols stem from the fact that they seem to increase the frequency of seizures in epileptics, and children are especially sensitive to the gastrointestinal side effects, possibly due to their propensity for bingeing on sweet foods.
neotame, another product of monsanto’s nutrasweet company and also the most recently approved sweetener, deserves several red flags of caution.
stevia is also used as a sweet food additive in south korea, brazil,  argentina and paraguay, and as a dietary supplement in china, western europe  and the u.s.126 stevia did not have a very easy entry into the u.s. market.
this appears to be the only safety issue  with trehalose.
nutritive sweeteners include sugar sweeteners (e.g., refined sugars, high fructose corn syrup, crystalline fructose, glucose. . .
according to the ada website: "all [sugar alcohols] are absorbed slowly and incompletely from the intestine by passive diffusion.
for these and other reasons, it has found more favor as a component of sweetener blends and as a flavor-modifying/enhancing agent.
www.btinternet.com/~amcbryan/aspartame/comment1a.htm 10.
abbott  reportedly wished to use the new product to mask the bitter taste of certain  antibiotics and medications.85
lynda sadler, president of the california-based traditional medicinals herbal-tea company, along with the american herbal products association (ahpa) and an attorney by the name of william r. pendergast, started to work on persuading the fda that the marketing of stevia should be permitted based on its having been used safely and widely in food prior to 1958.
it also takes the  prize as the sweetener with the most bizarre application--a japanese company  recently began to market a line of women’s t-shirts with xylitol infused  into the fabric.
if anyone has  bothered to specifically research the effects of hydrogenating sugars, that  information is not readily available at this time.
they are not  only safe for diabetics and hypoglycemics, but in some countries stevia leaves  are even prescribed as a medicinal substance for these conditions because they  normalize pancreatic function and thus aid in the metabolism of sugar.121
scientific  studies on lo han did not begin until the 1970s.
thus, consumption of fos may help to shorten fecal transit time, increase fecal bulk and reduces constipation.
the familiar theme continues: sveda noticed the sweet taste of a compound he was working with after he accidentally sat his cigarette down in some of it and then took a puff.84 as word got out about the discovery of what was then only the second existing artificial sweetener, dupont quickly bought the patent, and then later sold it to abbott laboratories.
while even this has not been a complete list of all of the artificial/alternative sweeteners that are available, we have at least touched upon all of the major options currently in use.
to that end, here is a  short list of additional sweet plants by botanical name: hydrangea macrophylla  seringe var.
whereas the patent on aspartame was extremely lucrative for these companies, it is impossible under u.s. law to hold a patent on a naturally occurring substance.)
the exception to this is its use in herbal tea blends, where the licorice aftertaste may be blended quite well with other tastes.
its potential applications include stabilizing proteins in dried or  frozen foods, stabilizing flavors, colors and fatty acids, and maintaining the  texture of food coatings.
the katemfe plant was first "discovered" by the western world by a british army surgeon, w. f. daniell, during his army posting in west africa in the 1840s.
the katemfe plant was first "discovered" by the western world by  a british army surgeon, w. f. daniell, during his army posting in west africa  in the 1840s.
once this change of course was established, the fda dropped its embargo and relinquished all concerns over its "suspicion of adulteration.
this cumulative reaction could spell grave consequences for those who consume  aspartame-laden diet drinks and foods on a daily basis.
prebiotics and probiotics are additionally beneficial when taken together.160
www.cfsan.fda.gov/~dms/fdsugar.html 22.
some chemicals are much more than 10 times more toxic in humans than in rodents (or will cause cancer in humans in low-dose, long-term exposure and do not cause cancer in rodents at all).
in 1901, queeny cashed in his personal savings and took out a loan to found a new corporation for the sole purpose of producing its own saccharin for the us market.
two of  searle’s own scientists, concerned about the safety of the new product,  filed a formal objection to try to keep aspartame from coming to the market.9
may recounts that he was  told in a phone conversation with the fda that (once again) the nutrasweet  company had been behind the complaint.
if a person has a neutral or positive state of general metabolic energy, glycerine may be (at least partially) excreted unchanged, metabolized into phoshoglycerides for use within cell membranes, or used in the conversion of extra dietary calories into body fat.
this is the holy grail of the artificial sweetener industry--compounds that taste sweet, are stable in prepackaged foods and beverages, and which are so foreign to the human diet that our digestive system cannot metabolize them to create any dietary calories.
while no formal lists currently exist to catalogue adverse reactions to  sucralose consumption, dr. mercola provides several anecdotal incidents on his  website.
for this reason, fos is considered to be a prebiotic--a  substance which provides nourishment for the gastrointestinal flora.
(is) expressed as the acceptable daily intake (adi), that is, the estimated amount per kilogram body weight that a person can safely consume every day over a lifetime without risk.. . .
(this fermentation of intestinal bacteria can lead to or exacerbate  problems with candida and other yeast problems.)
these secretions, known by native peoples to be edible and sweet, were called the "trehala manna."
as with lactose (another disaccharide) which requires a special enzyme, lactase, to break it down, a small percentage of people are genetically prone towards deficiency in trehalase, the enzyme that metabolizes trehalose.
www.globalsweet.com/healthyalternatives.asp#p 98.
xylitol, like several other sugar alcohols, exhibits a cooling effect in the mouth.
this solves certain difficulties that the food industry encounters when trying to mechanically blend sweeteners.
xylitol has the additional claims of increasing absorption of b-vitamins  and calcium, re-mineralizing tooth enamel and fighting/preventing ear  infections,99 as well as possibly contributing to fresher breath, greater  athletic performance, and recovery from sinus infections.100
independent studies have shown formaldehyde formation, resulting from aspartame ingestion, to be extremely common.
also known as "superaspartame," it was first synthesized from a base of aspartame and 3,3-dimethylbutyraldehyde by french scientists claude nofre and jean-marie tinti.
alternative sweeteners, third edition.
the  pituitary gland is the master gland upon which the proper function of all  biochemical processes depend.
cyclamate was banned by the fda that same  year.42
critics  derided the substance as having no nutritional value and (ironically enough) no  calories, and some people doubted that the new sweetener was safe.
(of course it is also helpful for the compounds to be dirt cheap to produce in bulk.)
one of the next major targets would be the colorado-based tea company  celestial seasonings.
it was first identified in a  laboratory in sweden in 1779 by karl wilhelm scheele.
according to the ada: "demand for aspartame in the united states rose from 8.4 million pounds in 1986 to 17.5 million pounds in 1992, a figure that represents more than 80 percent of the world demand.
it was discovered  in 1988 by scientists working for a beltsville, maryland corporation called  biospherics (the company name has since been changed to spherix).
immediately grasping the potential for a new  artificial sweetener, hoechst conducted its own safety testing on the compound  throughout the 1970s.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 121-
modern scientific research has shown that lo han extracts help relieve  gastritis, constipation and respiratory inflammations, and they also appear to  inhibit the epstein-barr virus and display anti-carcinogenic properties.148 while the fda has not made any conclusive rulings upon the status of lo han  and its extractives, they are currently available to u.s. consumers and have  not been opposed in any way by regulatory authorities.
therefore, an excessive load (e.g., greater than 50 g sorbitol per day, greater than 20 g mannitol per day) may cause diarrhea. . . .
industry-sponsored tests did not find any safety issues with the use of  nhdc, and also ruled that it does not promote cavities.
meanwhile, the public at large continued to gobble up saccharin-containing products, and every time the moratorium on banning saccharin expired, congress extended it until more research could be done.
www.cspinet.org/reports/chemcuisine.htm 60.
for over 25 years now, the japanese have used stevia and its extracts as a table top sweetener, in soft drinks, baked goods, pickles, fruit juices, jams and jellies, candies, yogurts, pastries, chewing gum, sherbets, toothpaste and tobacco products.
spanish  conquistadors of the sixteenth century learned about stevia from the local  guarani and mato grosso societies, who used it to sweeten teas and herbal  medicines.
as with saccharin, the prudent consumer would be wise to  seek out better options.
it was discovered in 1988 by scientists working for a beltsville, maryland corporation called biospherics (the company name has since been changed to spherix).
consequently, it triggers  no rise in blood sugar levels and is completely safe for diabetics and  hypoglycemics.
the european union, switzerland, the czech republic and turkey allow it to be used as a sweetener.
shashikant phadnis, a foreign graduate student working on the  project, misunderstood a request for "testing" of a chlorinated sugar  as a request for "tasting," leading to the discovery that many  chlorinated sugars are hundreds or thousands of times sweeter than sucrose.65 following this discovery, tate & lyle arranged with johnson &  johnson, then the world’s largest health care company, to develop and  test a new sweetener from chlorinated sugars.
(unfortunately, this information is very seldom available when glycerine shows up as an ingredient in a product.)
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 71.
www.eatright.org/public/governmentaffairs/92_adap0598.cfm
in 1985, kerry nielson was director of operations at sunrider.
this article appeared in wise traditions in food, farming and the healing arts, the quarterly magazine of the weston a. price foundation, winter 2003.
initially, may received confirmation that there would be no problems with importing the whole leaves of the plant or a liquid concentrate of stevioside.
www.tagatose.com/whatis.html 108.
there are currently no plans to seek approval of these substances for human  consumption, but they may at some point be utilized in other ways and thereby  find their way into the food chain.78 the chemical formula of neotame, published in the february 10, 1998 federal  register, reveals that neotame is extremely similar to aspartame.
the fda itself has stated that "increases in glycosolation in hemoglobin imply lessening of control in diabetes.
currently,  more than 100 countries allow the use of acesulfame-k.55,56 the entry of the new sweetener into the u.s. began in 1988 when, based  largely upon acceptance of hoechst’s own research, the fda gave a partial  green light for its use as a tabletop sweetener and as an ingredient in baked  goods, frozen desserts, alcoholic beverages and candies.57
www.gnc.com/health_notes/food_guide/non_nutritive_artificial_sweeteners.htm 7.www.eatright.org/public/governmentaffairs/92_adap0598.cfm 8.
as so frequently happens when a nation has to buckle down for a  protracted war, resources in the us had to be rationed in order to provide for  the troops abroad.
in the final analysis glycerine is a sweetening option worth experimenting with, unless one is pregnant or has high blood pressure, diabetes or kidney disease.
this leads to the fermentation by undesirable bacteria  and a resultant partial degradation or "metabolism" of the sugar  alcohols.
senator hatch has been  an outspoken advocate for the sweetener, possibly due to his holdings in twin  lab, a health supplement company that has used aspartame in a number of their  products.13 between 1981 and 1985, rumsfeld and searle began seeing the payoff for  their newly-formed subsidiary, the nutrasweet company.
after consumption, sucralose passes through the body  without being broken down.
however, the inspectors did not take any samples of the stevia with them in order to test for contamination.
the familiar theme continues: sveda noticed the sweet taste  of a compound he was working with after he accidentally sat his cigarette down  in some of it and then took a puff.84 as word got out about the discovery of  what was then only the second existing artificial sweetener, dupont quickly  bought the patent, and then later sold it to abbott laboratories.
it accumulates within the cells, and reacts with cellular proteins such as enzymes and dna.
low, which mixed saccharine with cyclamate (to counter the metallic aftertaste of saccharin) in the small packet form that we still know today.
this leads to the fermentation by undesirable bacteria and a resultant partial degradation or "metabolism" of the sugar alcohols.
it is not yet available as a commercial tabletop sweetener, and it was as recently as august 21, 2003, that 7-eleven inc. became the very first american company to use tagatose (marketed by spherix as naturlose) in a food or beverage--a diet-pepsi-flavored slurpee drink.
(it is not  cheap, though--1 ounce of the dried fruit goes for $30.)
compared to aspartame and saccharin, there is very little information  available about acesulfame-k. it is 200 times sweeter than sucrose (table sugar) 51 and, as it is not metabolized by the body, it is excreted unchanged in the  urine.52 it was discovered in 1967 by a german chemist, karl clauss, who was  working with derivatives of acetoacetic acid.53 in what should now be a  familiar theme, the sweetness of one particular derivative revealed itself one  day when he licked his finger to pick up a piece of paper.54 at the time, mr. clauss was employed at a german chemical company by the  name of the hoechst group.
64 sucralose may have the strangest "accidental discovery" story of all.
by the time the war ended, america and its european allies had grown quite  fond of the new sweetener.
hydrogenation of  fats and oils is certainly detrimental to the nutritive qualities of said  items, but the process must be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
to quote from dr. joseph mercola’s website ( www.mercola.com/2000/dec/3/sucralose_dangers.htm): "although sucralose is being flushed down toilets [after human excretion]. . .
many of these terms seem to be used as synonyms.
tagatose tagatose, known scientifically as d-tagatose, is very new to the sweetening  scene and there is comparatively little to be said about it.
the price foundation itself is playing a role in this cause,  but one of the most well-known advocates is donna gates, author of the body  ecology diet.
theodore  roosevelt, president at the time, eloquently defended saccharin’s safety  by saying, "anybody who says saccharin is injurious to health is an  idiot.
despite these stirring words of reassurance, some stubborn  people remained unconvinced.
try to seek out glycerine available from a product line  which is trustworthy--frontier natural products is one reliable source,  available on the internet at www.frontiercoop.com/shop/merchant.mvc (search  under the "glycerin" spelling).
this act placed a two-year moratorium on any ban of saccharin, allowing for further testing to be done, and also mandated that all products containing saccharin carry the following cautionary label: "use of this product may be hazardous to your health.
gates openly champions the cause of stevia as a sweetener and has  stated that she will go to jail, if necessary, to win the fda’s approval.
the  above quotation lists the official, generally agreed upon thresholds for  sorbitol and mannitol, but each sugar alcohol has its own threshold.
world war ii again  brought sugar rationing and a dramatic increase in saccharin usage, which this  time did not decline with the war’s end.38 however, during that period,  saccharin took on second-place status as cyclamate, another artificial  sweetener discovered in 1937, came on the scene.39 in 1958, marvin eisenstadt, owner of cumberland packing company in  brooklyn, ny, introduced sweet‘n low, which mixed saccharine with  cyclamate (to counter the metallic aftertaste of saccharin) in the small packet  form that we still know today.
additionally, independent reviewers of johnson &  johnson’s tests have found them to be inadequate and methodologically  flawed.
fahlberg and remsen published their  findings jointly, naming the compound saccharin after the latin saccharum,  which means sugar.30 what poetic justice for the name of the first artificial  sweetener.
industry-sponsored tests did not find any safety issues with the use of nhdc, and also ruled that it does not promote cavities.
the final word on sugar alcohols as a group seems to be a mixed message.
while neotame has not yet been introduced into any markets, critics  surmise that all of the toxic effects of aspartame and more will plague  consumers of neotame.
the result is an exceptionally stable sweetener that tastes like sugar, but without sugar’s calories.
and diabetics and hypoglycemics should be aware that  sugar alcohols do raise blood sugar levels, although not as much as sugar.
it was in that same year when  a gang of armed federal marshals raided the arlington, texas warehouse of  businessman oscar rodes, served him with a warrant, and proceeded to seize and  burn his most recent shipment of stevia and stevioside powder for use in  natural teas.131
some people believe that this is a similar substance to the manna that was gathered and eaten by the israelites of the old testament.
a native of paraguay and a  member of the sunflower family, the stevia plant is botanically known as stevia  rebaudiana.
while natives of paraguay have used the stevia plant for many centuries, the western world has also had a few centuries of experience with this sweet plant, dating back much earlier than bertoni’s time.
the safety limit of food additives. . .
(the reader is advised to recall that this was the same time period during which g d searle & company and monsanto were winning major victories toward fda approval of aspartame.
162 due to the relatively-low sweetness of fos and inulin, it is easier to use it for sweetening purposes in combination with another sweet substance.
there is also another, lesser-studied concern with saccharin due to the fact that it is a sulfonamide.
chicolin has recommended specifications for blending with stevia to achieve a desirable level of sweetness.
any one of them just may turn up on a product label one day, and having some knowledge of what a substance is may help each of us to make informed purchases.
where it is still used, cyclamate is frequently  blended with aspartame and acesulfame-k to make a "super sweetener.
21 this dismissal of phenylalanine and aspartic acid as significant health hazards is a dangerous bit of sleight of hand.
the fda  stonewalled this information and dragged their feet until sadler, the ahpa and  pendergast were finally forced to drop the matter, which was draining much time  and money.
on their own,  they enter the central nervous system in abnormally high concentrations,  causing aberrant neuronal firing and potential cell death.
one source claims that alitame will soon be approved as a sweetener in  the us, marketed under the name novasweet.
www.btinternet.com/~amcbryan/aspartame/comment1a.htm 42.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 114.
problems associated with aspartame consumption are neatly summarized in  nourishing traditions.
indeed, the fda showed very little  interest in saccharin until 1969, when researchers discovered that cyclamate  was carcinogenic in laboratory mice.
however,  certain individuals have been known to experience reactions at much lower  dosages.
44 during the ensuring 26 years, the fda and other groups performed numerous studies attempting to determine conclusively whether or not saccharin was a carcinogen.
effects.)130 it was in that same year when a gang of armed federal marshals raided the arlington, texas warehouse of businessman oscar rodes, served him with a warrant, and proceeded to seize and burn his most recent shipment of stevia and stevioside powder for use in natural teas.131
non-nutritive  sweeteners (e.g., saccharin, aspartame, acesulfame-k. . .
according to the american dietetics association: "[sugar alcohols] can  . .
they advertise that magnasweet "can be used in a wide range of applications to enhance, intensify and potentiate flavors; augment or modify sweetness; eliminate or modify bitterness; and mask unpleasant aftertastes."142
both the metabolites  and unchanged absorbed sucralose are excreted in urine, but some absorbed  sucralose has been found to concentrate in the liver, kidney and  gastrointestinal tract.76
even if one does not consume any glycerine as an ingredient of any food items, it is normally liberated from various naturally occurring food sources during the digestive process.
as with saccharin, the prudent consumer would be wise to seek out better options.
is a neurotoxic substance that has  been associated with numerous health problems including dizziness, visual  impairment, severe muscle aches, numbing of extremities, pancreatitis, high  blood pressure, retinal hemorrhaging, seizures and depression.
the two substances are variously rated at being between 230 and 425 times sweeter than sucrose, depending upon their application.146 the whole dried fruit is 300 times sweeter than sucrose.147
www.holisticmed.com/splenda/ 84.
those who suffer from candida or other yeast problems may find it especially beneficial.
since no specific monitoring practices or epidemiological  studies of acesulfame-k are currently in progress, it is possible that relevant  data may not be gathered for some time.
for example, given the choice between treating a child’s ear infection  with a course of antibiotics or with administration of a therapeutic dose of  xylitol, the latter option would certainly be preferable.
all one has to do is add an "e" to the end of the word to change it to "saccharine," an adjective which means "sickeningly sweet."
140 glycyrrhizin glycyrrhizin and other compounds derived from it are widely used in japan  for sweetening foods, beverages, medicines, and tobacco.
even if these "impurities" are within existing manufacturing guidelines, they are still all potentially dangerous to human health.77 sucralose production and consumption may also pose a threat to the environment in general.
in strict moderation,  they can even be used by diabetics in conjunction with a nutrient-dense,  high-fat diet.
there are also some exciting possibilities brewing in canada, where stevia may be sold as a tea but not a sweetener.
even  if products are consistently kept at cooler temperatures we are not safe.
independent studies have shown formaldehyde formation,  resulting from aspartame ingestion, to be extremely common.
additionally, as the fda again acknowledges, sucralose may contain up to 2 percent of various impurities, such as heavy metals, arsenic, triphenilphosphine oxide, methanol, chlorinated disaccharides and chlorinated monosaccharides.
it is a heat-stable compound, 2000 times sweeter than sucrose, which could potentially be incorporated into any sweetened product.
the simple answer is that glycerine is utilized by the body in different ways (or not at all) depending upon the state one is in when one consumes it.
it was first identified as a constituent in the ergot of  rye in 1832, even before the discovery of saccharin.
this author’s personal favorite stevia products are  available from wisdom natural brands, found at www.wisdomherbs.com .
the number of fructose molecules which  are bound together is called the "degree of polymerization," or dp,  and it varies according to the plant source, type of climate, time of harvest,  and the duration and conditions of post-harvest storage.
[i]ncomplete absorption causes indirect  metabolism of [sugar alcohols] via fermentive (sic) degradation by the  intestinal flora.
trehalose was given gras status in the us in october  of 2000 and is approved as a food additive in britain, japan, korea and taiwan.
in fact, it is one of the most commonly-used herbs  worldwide.
a handful of companies are marketing lo  han sweetening products in the u.s. and elsewhere.
the  fda itself has stated that "increases in glycosolation in hemoglobin imply  lessening of control in diabetes.
in the final analysis glycerine is a sweetening option worth experimenting  with, unless one is pregnant or has high blood pressure, diabetes or kidney  disease.
this author recommends against  willingly acting as a guinea pig for yet another questionable product--read on  for better options later in this article.
pfizer applied for fda approval of alitame in 1986, but has yet to receive a conclusive ruling.91 any sweetener that may be described as "similar to aspartame" deserves a red flag of caution, but no commentary of any detail is readily available at the present time.
after experimentally hydrogenating a particular citrus phenolic glycoside, they observed that the resultant compound was very sweet, 1500 to 1800 times sweeter than sucrose.
in 1970, the fda imposed a total ban on the use of cyclamate within the u.s.
naturally occurring  sources of fos generally contain mixtures of various degrees of polymerization,  but standardized extracts of fos generally average at a dp of about 4.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 114- http://science.nasa.gov/newhome/headlines/msad14sep98_1.htm 115- www.dsharma.org/biotech/bitter.htm 116-
the stevia was all burned and the company was instructed to cease and desist from any further importation.
this ban was lifted 5 years later with the advent of the first world  war.37
for more  information on stevia, the reader is advised to read the book the stevia story:  a tale of incredible sweetness & intrigue, by bill and linda bonvie and  donna gates.
these studies turned out very badly and remain as some of the most damning evidence against aspartame’s safety.8
in may of 2000, the nutrasweet company was purchased from monsanto by the  j.w. childs equity partners, lp.79 the new leadership at nutrasweet must be  quite excited about the approval of neotame, as the patent rights on aspartame  expired in the 1990s and generic versions have been allowed ever since.
"127 it was around that same time that the arizona-based wisdom natural brands  company began having problems with stevia products as well.
dried lo han fruit is frequently available in chinese and oriental markets, or may be ordered online at www.chinanaturalproduct.com/whole_dried_lo_han_kuo_fruit.htm.
(is) expressed as the acceptable daily intake (adi), that  is, the estimated amount per kilogram body weight that a person can safely  consume every day over a lifetime without risk.. . .
even if  one does not consume any glycerine as an ingredient of any food items, it is  normally liberated from various naturally occurring food sources during the  digestive process.
the food industry, in their never-ending quest to increase their profits and jeopardize the safety of our foods, later found a way to use genetic engineering and gene splicing to produce the sweet thaumatin proteins from bacterial cultures, thus by-passing the need to cultivate, harvest, transport and process any katemfe berries.
in the mid 1980s, representatives of an "anonymous  firm" lodged a trade complaint with the fda, charging that the celestial  seasonings company was using stevia extracts in four products which were  therefore "adulterated."
no matter how the glycerine molecules find their way into the digestive system, their fate seems to depend upon the energy status of the person at that moment.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 57.
http://www.dominion-web.com/directory.top/society/issues/business/ allegedly_unethical_firms/monsanto 16.
chicolin has  recommended specifications for blending with stevia to achieve a desirable  level of sweetness.
world war ii again brought sugar rationing and a dramatic increase in saccharin usage, which this time did not decline with the war’s end.38 however, during that period, saccharin took on second-place status as cyclamate, another artificial sweetener discovered in 1937, came on the scene.39 in 1958, marvin eisenstadt, owner of cumberland packing company in brooklyn, ny, introduced sweet‘n
nhdc is a type of flavonoid, a broad term referring  to a group of over 4000 substances known to occur naturally in all higher forms  of plants.
the safety limit of  food additives. . .
the product they created, at an impressive 600 times sweeter than  sucrose, would be known as sucralose and marketed as splenda.
both sugar alcohols and non-nutritive sweeteners can replace sugar sweeteners and are therefore termed macronutrient substitutes, sugar substitutes, sugar replacers, or alternative sweeteners.
sulfonamide compounds have been shown to cause dermatological reactions in those who are allergic to sulfa drugs, especially in children.
that dose is then known as the maximum tolerable daily intake (tdi) for lifetime use.
nielson and his company were among the first to feel the regulatory backlash directed at stevia and its purveyors.
(the fda and nutrasweet both deny that  nutrasweet ever had any involvement in the fda’s actions.)
the fda has even gone so far as to raid health food stores  suspected of selling stevia products and to order the confiscation of books  which refer to stevia’s potential use as a natural sweetener.132
one of the next major targets would be the colorado-based tea company celestial seasonings.
glycyrrhizin is between 50  and 100 times sweeter than sucrose, but it also imparts a definite (and  familiar) aftertaste of licorice.
and diabetics and hypoglycemics should be aware that sugar alcohols do raise blood sugar levels, although not as much as sugar.
if a person has a neutral or positive state of general metabolic  energy, glycerine may be (at least partially) excreted unchanged, metabolized  into phoshoglycerides for use within cell membranes, or used in the conversion  of extra dietary calories into body fat.
lynda sadler, president of the california-based traditional medicinals  herbal-tea company, along with the american herbal products association (ahpa)  and an attorney by the name of william r. pendergast, started to work on  persuading the fda that the marketing of stevia should be permitted based on  its having been used safely and widely in food prior to 1958.
this product contains saccharin which has been determined to cause cancer in laboratory animals."
even if products are consistently kept at cooler temperatures we are not safe.
while the johnson & johnson corporation claims that they have hundreds  of self-conducted studies demonstrating the product’s safety, sucralose  has the fewest independent scientific tests to its credit of all non-nutritive  sweeteners.
lactitol in particular may be problematic in small doses, especially  for lactose-sensitive individuals.103,104 stomach cramping and diarrhea are certainly not as serious as the  conditions associated with some of the non-nutritive sweeteners, but the sugar  alcohols can cause other more serious problems.
(it should be noted that certain individuals should avoid  consuming excessive amounts of glycerine due to the very fact that it does
by 1977 the maruzen kasei co., ltd. started extracting stevioside on a commercial basis in japan.
so how much is too much?
the fda proposed also banning saccharin until conclusive tests could  prove its safety.
in 1991 the fda began to escalate the  whole matter to the level of a war on drugs, issuing "import alert number  45-06," which declared stevia an "unsafe food additive" and  prohibited its import into the u.s. (it is interesting to note that the text of  this document mentions that stevia "has been used throughout history"  without any mention of negative side
the material safety data sheet on aspartame (cas#  22839-47-0) says that to work with the sweetener, one should wear chemical  goggles, protective gloves to prevent skin exposure, a chemical apron and a  nios/msha approved air purifying dust or mist respirator.16 whatever else one  may say about refined white sugar, at least one doesn’t have to wear  chemical goggles to work with it!
lactitol frequently finds its way into  blends with more potent sweeteners, such as aspartame, saccharin and  acesulfame-k. whatever their intended usage, all of the sugar alcohols are  touted as being safe for diabetics and hypoglycemics, lower in calories than  sugar, and non-contributory towards tooth decay and the growth of intestinal  yeasts.
developed by pharmaceutical giant pfizer, alitame is sold under the name aclame in several countries, including australia, mexico, new zealand, china, indonesia, colombia and chile.
he observed that the local people used it "to improve sour  fruit and bad palm wine."
to deal with this category, we must first rid ourselves of the silly idea that the word "nutritive" necessarily indicates that a substance will contribute anything positive to our general well being.
in an amazing display of sweetening power, neotame hits  the scales at 8000 times sweeter than sucrose, and its chemical name is a  mouthful--n-[n-(3,3-dimethylbutyl)-l-a-aspartyl]-l-phenylalanine 1-methyl ester.
[the] fda allows these nutritive sweeteners to be  labeled as having fewer kilocalories per gram than other nutritive sweeteners.
despite the best efforts of the establishment to hold it back, there exists something of an informal "underground" of those who seek to vindicate stevia and openly market it as a sweetener.
it is formed as a result of changes to lactose as heat is applied.
in this case, that compound is known as glycyrrhizin (or also glycyrrhizic acid).
the production of talin is now handled by a british  subsidiary of the braes group, overseal foods, ltd.116 thaumatin was first permitted as a food additive by the japanese in 1979  and has since been approved as a sweetener in australia and several european  countries.
although this technology exists, for reasons unknown it has not been  commercially utilized yet.115
(it should be noted that certain individuals should avoid consuming excessive amounts of glycerine due to the very fact that it does increase blood volume.
the official status of stevia has not changed as of the time of this  article’s publication, but the future of this contentious little plant is  being shaped in very exciting ways.
www.gnc.com/health_notes/food_guide/non_nutritive_artificial_sweeteners.htm 40.
about the author jim earles is a kundalini yoga teacher and weston price enthusiast who resides in dubuque, iowa with his wife amber and children sienna and connor.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 119.
www.aspartamekills.com 15.
in spite of the fda go-ahead, cspi and a handful of independent scientists maintain their objections to acesulfame-k, citing inadequate testing and the fact that previous tests suggest serious problems, including possible carcinogenicity.
johnson & johnson  maintains that sucralose passes through the digestive system without any  absorption or metabolization, but the fda’s own research has shown that  11 to 27 percent of sucralose is absorbed in humans, while the rest is excreted  unchanged in the feces.
sugar alcohols also promote dehydration and loss of electrolytes, creating  feelings of excessive thirst.
in  this case and the previous attempts by pendergast et al., the fda ignored their  usual protocol and refused to even file the petitions for approval.
sunrider continued to meet with fda  stonewalling on the matter and eventually gave up on the idea of using stevia  as a sweetener, opting instead to formulate a less-controversial skin-care  product containing stevia.
so it seems that tagatose only occurs "in nature" to the same  extent that heat-treated dairy products occur "in nature."
despite lipton’s credentials within the food industry, they met with similar bureaucratic resistance.
for this reason, it is traditionally consumed and served during the hot summer months in china.
the brazilian study involved an overly-small  group of mice and suffered from a number of methodological and design flaws.
www.globalsweet.com/healthyalternatives.asp#p 101.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 145- www.chifaisgourmet.com/cflohanpage.htm 146-
the two substances are  variously rated at being between 230 and 425 times sweeter than sucrose,  depending upon their application.146 the whole dried fruit is 300 times sweeter  than sucrose.147
traditional chinese doctors consider it to be  a yin substance, meaning that it releases excess heat from the body.
the fda's direct  additives branch chief, eugene coleman, replied: "this may sound flippant,  but we [will] know that number when we see it."133
we’ll stick with acesulfame k for our purposes!
toluene is also used in the manufacture of certain dyes, pharmaceutical drugs  and trinitrotoluene, the blasting agent more commonly known as tnt.26 saccharin  is currently manufactured by a more cost-effective method, beginning with  synthetically produced methyl anthranilate, a compound that also occurs  naturally in grape and other fruit juices.
162 due to the relatively-low sweetness of fos and inulin, it is easier to use  it for sweetening purposes in combination with another sweet substance.
alternative sweeteners , third edition.
while fos products are commercially available from different sources, the author recommends an inulin product called chicolin, from bioquest imports international, inc. (www.greenalive.com/chicolin.html).
the term  "trehalose" was coined in later years when the same substance was  identified as a component of the secretions of a beetle in the iraqi desert.
157 fos is commonly extracted from chicory roots and jerusalem artichokes (as it occurs in relatively large quantities in these items), but it is also found in onions, leeks, garlic, common artichokes, bananas, rye, barley, dandelion leaves, burdock roots and honey.
choosing a brand name of talin for the new product, tate & lyle established a subsidiary called the talin company to handle its production and marketing.
the material safety data sheet on aspartame (cas# 22839-47-0) says that to work with the sweetener, one should wear chemical goggles, protective gloves to prevent skin exposure, a chemical apron and a nios/msha approved air purifying dust or mist respirator.16 whatever else one may say about refined white sugar, at least one doesn’t have to wear chemical goggles to work with it!
sweeteners from the hsh family commonly serve as viscosity or bodifying agents, humectants, crystallization modifiers, cryoprotectants, and rehydration aids.
the fda declined to even process the company’s petition and continued to pressure them to stop using stevia, as well as to turn over the names of other companies which were using the controversial sweetener.
in this case and the previous attempts by pendergast et al., the fda ignored their usual protocol and refused to even file the petitions for approval.
tagatose has the exact same chemical formula as ordinary fructose, but the  molecular structures of the two are slightly different.
the actual proteins responsible  for the sweetness were first isolated from the plant and identified in 1971 by  h. van der wel.
(fos is something of an umbrella term for a class of oligosaccharides; inulin  is a specific type of fos.
nhdc has been accorded various levels of  regulatory status around the world.
in 1980, johnson & johnson  formed a subsidiary company by the name of mcneil specialty products for this  purpose.66
in the u.s., it is only allowed  as a flavor ingredient (used at levels below the threshold of sweetness) in 16  food categories.
being a member of the  cucurbitaceae family, it was first classified as momordica grosvenorii, then  thladiantha grosvenorii, and most recently as siraitia grosvenorii.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 90.
in strict moderation, they can even be used by diabetics in conjunction with a nutrient-dense, high-fat diet.
a cursory glance down the aisles of any grocery store these days will reveal a host of sugar-free, low-calorie products, all promising to be the dieter’s best friend.
www.foodproductdesign.com/archive/1992/0792de.html 91.
"lo han: a natural sweetener comes of age,"whole foods, june 2003, by peilin guo and dallas clouatre.
this would include pregnant women and people who suffer  from high blood pressure, diabetes or kidney diseases.)151 glycerine is also a  source of lecithin and tocopherols (vitamin e).152 food-grade glycerine is produced from animal sources (usually tallow),  vegetable sources (various vegetable oils) and from propylene alcohol.
www.supplementwatch.com/supatoz/supplement.asp?supplementid=152 152- http://journeytoforever.org/biodiesel_glycerin.html#sweet 153- www.aubrey-organics.com/about/dictionary/v_diction.cfm 154- http://journeytoforever.org/biodiesel_glycerin.html#sweet 155- www.dainet.de/fnr/ctvo/byproducts/heming_hbi.doc 156- www.getbig.com/articles/nutritionbars.htm 157- alternative sweeteners, third edition.
the evidence does seem to support the positive claims made on behalf of these  sweeteners, and perhaps this gives them a valid place in certain applications.
a case may certainly be made that lo han should be allowed as a gras substance due to its substantial history of safe usage prior to 1958.
the energy return from indirect metabolism is less than the direct route; thus, [sugar alcohols] are referred to as reduced-energy or low-energy sweeteners.
these conditions generally resolve themselves within 36 hours after  ingestion of the formula.48 (this last bit is most likely an unnecessary  warning for readers of wise traditions.
some technical information  about all of the plants in this list may be found in the book, alternative  sweeteners, third edition, lyn o’brien nabors (editor).
sugar alcohols (e.g., sorbitol, mannitol, xylitol, isomalt, and hydrogenated starch hydrolysates).
in 1976, a british sugar company by the name of tate & lyle was conducting experiments in collaboration with queen elizabeth college at the university of london, searching for ways to use sucrose as a chemical intermediate.
"some sweeteners are considered generally recognized as safe (gras) ingredients and others are considered food additives. . . .
is a neurotoxic substance that has been associated with numerous health problems including dizziness, visual impairment, severe muscle aches, numbing of extremities, pancreatitis, high blood pressure, retinal hemorrhaging, seizures and depression.
"83 cyclamate aside from the five current non-nutritive sweeteners, there are two  additional non-nutritive sweeteners under review by the fda--cyclamate and  alitame.
while acesulfame-k is frequently  blended with aspartame to achieve synergistic sweetening capabilities,  twinsweet is actually a blend of the two at the molecular level.
it does not  affect blood sugar levels, and so is suitable for diabetics and hypoglycemics.
while talin is not commercially available to the average consumer in this  country, it is possible to order the dried, unprocessed fruit of the katemfe  plant online atwww.bouncingb.com/thaumatococcus_danielli.php .
meanwhile, a st. louis company by the name of meyer brothers drug company  had been importing saccharin from germany, and an enterprising young employee  by the name of john f. queeny immediately recognized the sweetener’s  great potential.
keep in mind that the tdi is  just an estimate.
for these and other  reasons, it has found more favor as a component of sweetener blends and as a  flavor-modifying/enhancing agent.
this would include pregnant women and people who suffer from high blood pressure, diabetes or kidney diseases.)151 glycerine is also a source of lecithin and tocopherols (vitamin e).152 food-grade glycerine is produced from animal sources (usually tallow), vegetable sources (various vegetable oils) and from propylene alcohol.
an excellent resource for recipes  using glycerine as a sweetener is the complete candida cookbook, by gail burton.
http://members.shaw.ca/duncancrow/inulin_probiotic.html references corresponding to better options addendum 112- www.overseal.co.uk/talin3.htm 113- alternative sweeteners, third edition.
as noted above in the history of saccharin, cyclamate was also a part of the original "formula" of sweet’n low, introduced to the public in 1958.
www.gene.ch/gentech/1998/may-jul/msg00060.html 122- information taken from wisdom natural brands stevia product brochures 123- www.wisdomherbs.com/faq/stevioside.htm 124- information taken from wisdom natural brands stevia product brochures 125- www.emperorsherbologist.com/steviahist.shtml 126- alternative sweeteners, third edition.
www.btinternet.com/~amcbryan/aspartame/comment1a.htm 13.
www.btinternet.com/~amcbryan/aspartame/comment1a.htm 52.
it has also been noted that acesulfame-k stimulates insulin secretion in a dose dependent fashion, thereby possibly aggravating reactive hypoglycemia ("low blood sugar attacks").61 based on these objections, in 1996 cspi urged the fda to reconsider its position on the new sweetener, but two years later the fda approved acesulfame-k for all other general sweetening purposes, including non-alcoholic liquid use.
it is safe for diabetics, but its lack of versatility as an all-around sweetening agent limits its potential applications.
jim may, founder and president of the company, had even gone so far as to submit test samples of stevia to the fda to assure that it would be okay to use it in the company’s products.
within the u.s., glycyrrhizin has gras status as a flavoring agent, but is not allowed as a sweetener.141 to date, there is only one commercial glycyrrhizin product available--magnasweet from mafco worldwide.
the t-shirts are intended to utilize this same property to keep a person cooler in warm weather.101
it is also referred to as a,a-trehalose, mushroom sugar or mycose, but its proper chemical name is a-d-glucopyranosyl a-d-glucopyranoside.
these people must monitor or eliminate their intake of phenylalanine, which also occurs naturally in certain foods.
also known as "superaspartame," it was first synthesized from a base  of aspartame and 3,3-dimethylbutyraldehyde by french scientists claude nofre  and jean-marie tinti.
a team from the fda conducted its own study of searle’s data and on the corpses of aspartame-poisoned mice, and issued a scathing document called the bressler report.10 this report, however, did not spell the end for aspartame.
adverse  symptoms of excessive glycyrrhizin consumption generally disappear shortly  after a person lowers their dietary intake of products containing the sweetener.
in one meeting with fda officials, an ahpa representative asked what amount of information would be required for submission before the fda would formally file a petition.
while we have clearly found some of the sweeteners in use today to be plagued with numerous dangers, there are also many healthful and promising options available to the informed consumer.
www.nutrasweet.com/infocenter/index.asp 80.
the plant of which licorice root is the  root is the blue flowering pea plant, botanically known as glycyrrhiza glabra.
from its discovery in 1879 until 1917, saccharin was primarily employed as an antiseptic agent and food preservative.32 fahlberg, an experienced sugar chemist, did recognize the potential of the new compound for sweetening purposes, and he aggressively attempted to profit on these capabilities as early as 1885.
neotame neotame, another product of monsanto’s nutrasweet company and also  the most recently approved sweetener, deserves several red flags of caution.
(some sources also say that the fda refuses to label any natural substance as a  sweetener unless it is a carbohydrate.)134 these allegations are based upon two  studies--a 1968 rat study and a 1988 mouse study published in a brazilian  pharmacological journal.
according to fahlberg’s account, he accidentally spilled some laboratory material on his hand and noticed the sweet taste later in the evening when he was eating dinner.
all one has to do is add an "e" to the end of the word to  change it to "saccharine," an adjective which means "sickeningly  sweet."
assuming that the body was in a state of ketosis to  begin with.
due to its low sweetness (in comparison to  many artificial sweeteners) and strong aftertaste, it has not enjoyed much  success as a commercial sweetener.
it was first identified in a laboratory in sweden in 1779 by karl wilhelm scheele.
it is a  heat-stable compound, 2000 times sweeter than sucrose, which could potentially  be incorporated into any sweetened product.
www.gnc.com/health_notes/food_guide/non_nutritive_artificial_sweeteners.htm 58.www.archive.hoechst.com/english_3er/publikationen/future/ernaehr/art8.html 59.
some of the remaining sweeteners are not classified by the fda as being sweeteners at all, yet they undeniably possess some degree of sweetness.
the canadian government responded by  immediately banning all use of saccharin in food and beverages.43
ibid 3.www.fda.gov/bbs/topics/answers/2002/ans01156.html 4.
largely at the insistence of these sugar producers, the  german government enacted new laws which made saccharin available only to  pharmacies for use in prescription medicines.33
but there is no argument about the fact that phenylalanine,  the largest component of aspartame by weight, is a danger to people who have a  hereditary condition called phenylketonuria (pku).
these conditions generally resolve themselves within 36 hours after ingestion of the formula.48 (this last bit is most likely an unnecessary warning for readers of wise traditions.
it has also been shown to reduce both cholesterol and triglyceride levels and may provide improved absorption of minerals such as calcium, magnesium, iron, and phosphate.
it is interesting to note that even the manufacturers and the official regulatory bodies hint at the potential problems with sugar alcohols.
tagatose is  92 percent as sweet as sucrose and is said to occur "naturally" in  heated cow’s milk and some other presumably heat-treated dairy products.
one must keep  in mind, however, that fats and oils were hydrogenated for some time before we  became aware of the detrimental effects of this practice.
the berries were  frozen and shipped to its factories in the uk.
www.drgreene.com/21_837.html 100.
the two then performed similar experiments on other citrus derivatives and discovered several additional sweet compounds, but it was only the original product, nhdc, which would go on to have commercial application.
http://members.shaw.ca/duncancrow/inulin_probiotic.html 162- ibid 163- alternative sweeteners, third edition.
disaccharides include lactitol (derived  from lactose, 30 percent to 40 percent as sweet as sucrose, gras status),  maltitol (derived from maltose, 90 percent as sweet as sucrose, gras status) and isomalt (derived from enzymatically-treated sucrose, 45  percent to 65 percent as sweet as sucrose, gras status).
rarely, if ever, does this situation lend itself to good health.
anticipating this, the wrigley  company has already filed several patents to use the new sweetener in its  chewing gums.92 "nutritive" sweeteners having now dealt with all of the currently-approved and pending  non-nutritive sweeteners, we must return our attention briefly to the so-called  "nutritive" sweeteners.
the fda has even gone so far as to raid health food stores suspected of selling stevia products and to order the confiscation of books which refer to stevia’s potential use as a natural sweetener.132
www.gnc.com/health_notes/food_guide/non_nutritive_artificial_sweeteners.htm 86.alternative sweeteners, third edition.
www.ecit.emory.edu/ecit/chem_ram/synth/hodgin.htm 55.
www.btinternet.com/~amcbryan/aspartame/comment1a.htm 81.
as of 1995, over 75 percent of the adverse reactions reported to the arms were due to aspartame.23
"12 searle re-applied for fda approval of aspartame on the very same day that ronald reagan took office in 1980.
in the early 1950s, abbott began to market cyclamate tablets as  diabetic-friendly sweeteners.
some sources say that glycerine from propylene alcohol is irritating to the skin and scalp when used in topical products.153 non-food-grade glycerine is a major by-product in the production of biodiesel fuels.
some of the end products do not  contain a specific sugar alcohol in any clear majority; these are simply  referred to by the generalized term--hydrogenated starch hydrolysate.
australia and new zealand allow nhdc as an artificial flavoring.
it has been  shown that saccharin causes bladder cancer in male rats of a certain genetic  predisposition, but this appears to be a gender- and species-specific  phenomenon.
http://web1.caryacademy.org/chemistry/rushin/studentprojects/compoundwebsites /2001/ saccharin/bittersweet.htm 38.
from this point on (beginning with thaumatin) is what the author likes to  term as "the best options," although not all of them are readily  available options at this time for various reasons.
the two then performed similar experiments on other citrus  derivatives and discovered several additional sweet compounds, but it was only  the original product, nhdc, which would go on to have commercial application.
while the fda classifies fos as being only a food ingredient which is usually used as a fat-replacer in low-fat foods, it does have some potential as a sweetening substance.
dr. michael friedman, then the acting head of the fda, later accepted a high-level position at monsanto, the corporation which was to purchase the nutrasweet company from searle in 1985.14 monsanto has also brought the world such atrocities as agent orange, pcbs, dioxins, recombinant bovine growth hormone (rbgh), round-up herbicide and a host of genetically modified foods.15 the company has made a fortune off aspartame, at the expense of those who purchase and consume it, and at the hazard of those who actually do the work of producing and handling it.
i know of no studies showing what happens to the chemical when the raw sewage is treated and then released back into the environment.
it has reportedly captured over 50% of the japanese sweetening market,125 even though the japanese technically classify it as a food additive.
www.splenda.com/page.jhtml?id=splenda/pressctr/pressreleases.inc 72.
the  simple answer is that glycerine is utilized by the body in different ways (or  not at all) depending upon the state one is in when one consumes it.
many healthful and promising alternative sweeteners are now available to the informed consumer; please note that most of the good options are provided to us by plants and herbs, while most of the bad options have been created in laboratories.
"lo han: a natural sweetener comes of age" article from whole foods, june 2003, by peilin guo and dallas clouatre.
"127 it was around that same time that the arizona-based wisdom natural brands company began having problems with stevia products as well.
methanol is also found in fruit juices, and our regulatory  agencies have seized upon this fact to assure us that the methanol by-product  of aspartame is not harmful.
cspi  has also gone on record as saying that the hoechst scientists "followed  inadequate protocols, which are greatly at variance with current standards for  test design, execution and reporting required for the national toxicology  program’s bioassays.
to quote from dr. janet starr hull: "saccharin is not genotoxic; the presumed mechanism of toxicity is the binding of saccharin to urinary proteins (not normally found in humans), creating a nidus for the formation of silicate crystals, which are cytotoxic to bladder epithelium (of rats)."50 however--and this is the important part--while the fda has chosen to say that it cannot be proven that saccharin’s effect on mice is relevant to humans, one could just as easily say that the studies have failed to prove that there is no link between saccharin and bladder cancer in humans.
available online atwww.stevia.net/newagesweet.htm 128- ibid 129- ibid 130- www.emperorsherbologist.com/steviahist.shtml 131-
chlorinated molecules, which are used as the basis for pesticides  such as ddt, tend to accumulate in body tissues.
choosing a brand name of talin for the new product, tate & lyle  established a subsidiary called the talin company to handle its production and  marketing.
(although many people equate licorice with the sweet red strips of candy called by the same name, those do not actually contain any licorice root.
the number of fructose molecules which are bound together is called the "degree of polymerization," or dp, and it varies according to the plant source, type of climate, time of harvest, and the duration and conditions of post-harvest storage.
although this technology exists, for reasons unknown it has not been commercially utilized yet.115
saccharin may be found in ingredient  lists under three slightly variant forms--acid saccharin, sodium saccharin and  calcium saccharin.27 unlike aspartame, saccharin is not metabolized by the human body and is  excreted rapidly through the urine.28
however, the inspectors did not take any samples of the stevia with  them in order to test for contamination.
some of the remaining  sweeteners are not classified by the fda as being sweeteners at all, yet they  undeniably possess some degree of sweetness.
these secretions, known by native peoples to be edible and sweet, were called  the "trehala manna."
products with sorbitol and mannitol may have the following statement on  the label because high intakes increase the risk of malabsorption:  ‘excess consumption may have a laxative effect.
they were found to be 3000 times sweeter than sucrose, thus making thaumatin the sweetest natural substance known to man.113 (thaumatin also has the unusual distinction of having been selected by nasa to be synthesized in a space lab orbiting the earth.
cspi has also gone on record as saying that the hoechst scientists "followed inadequate protocols, which are greatly at variance with current standards for test design, execution and reporting required for the national toxicology program’s bioassays.
once a  petition is filed, the information submitted becomes available for public  review during the same time period in which the fda is reviewing it.
magnasweet is currently  only available to the food processing industry.
the difference is  virtually irrelevant to your tongue, but the digestive system has no idea how  to handle this unnatural molecule, just as the body cannot properly assimilate  many synthetic vitamins, which are mirror images of their natural counterparts.
no substantial ground was gained until 1985, when  the cancer assessment committee of fda’s center for food safety and  applied nutrition concluded that cyclamate is not a carcinogen.
a 1995 report from the us department of health and human services entitled "symptoms attributed to aspartame in complaints submitted to the fda" (which once again had to be forced into public light through the freedom of information act) lists 92 separate categories of symptoms, including the frequency of each reported claim.24 saccharin, the first artificial sweetener to be discovered, is chemically classified as an o-toluene sulfonamide derivative.25 it was originally synthesized from toluene, a colorless liquid hydrocarbon distilled from coal tar, which may account for saccharin’s bitter, metallic aftertaste.
currently, more than 40 nations have given their  approval to sucralose, although a number of european nations still have it  under preliminary
one of those resources was table sugar.
additionally, as the fda again acknowledges,  sucralose may contain up to 2 percent of various impurities, such as heavy  metals, arsenic, triphenilphosphine oxide, methanol, chlorinated disaccharides  and chlorinated monosaccharides.
the earliest  introduction into this country was probably in the late 1970s or early  ‘80s.
under continuing harassment, celestial seasonings relented on both counts.129 it would preserve some small measure of the fda’s dignity if these had only been isolated incidents, or even if they were the worst incidents of their kind…but it gets worse.
hayashibara’s trehalose is  the only source currently in production, and japan is by far the largest  consumer of products containing trehalose.
despite the best efforts of the  establishment to hold it back, there exists something of an informal  "underground" of those who seek to vindicate stevia and openly market  it as a sweetener.
in 1963, nhdc was discovered by two researchers by the names of horowitz  and gentili who were studying bitter compounds found in citrus fruits.
essentially, neotame molecules are aspartame molecules chemically combined with a neohexyl group.
the weston a. price foundation for wise traditions in food, farming, and the healing arts.
pendergast and the others submitted more than 900 articles to the fda,  documenting that the herb has been used safely for "hundreds of  years" by "millions of people."
after the us cyclamate ban, would-be producers were legally obligated to prove its safety to the fda’s satisfaction if it was to be re-approved.
according to dr. christine lydon, an accomplished aspartame researcher: "aspartame’s breakdown products, or metabolites, are even scarier than its components.
prebiotics, like probiotics (such as live-culture yogurt--substances which actually contain the same bacteria which are the beneficial flora in the human digestive tract), help promote regularity, prevent yeast overgrowth and are beneficial for those with crohn’s disease, colitis or who are on kidney dialysis.
it is here in the bowels that the "passive diffusion" mentioned by  the ada takes place, meaning that the presence of the sugar alcohols draws  water into the bowels.
while a few other countries had previously given a green light to tagatose, in april of 2001 the fda accepted it as a gras substance for use in foods, beverages, cosmetics, toothpastes and pharmaceutical drugs.
to quote from the cspi website: "the safety tests of acesulfame-k were. . .
available online atwww.stevia.net/newagesweet.htm 132-www.gene.ch/gentech/1998/may-jul/msg00060.html 133- "sinfully sweet?" article from new age journal, jan./feb.
sugar alcohols (e.g., sorbitol, mannitol,  xylitol, isomalt, and hydrogenated starch hydrolysates).
some people believe that this is a similar  substance to the manna that was gathered and eaten by the israelites of the old  testament.
www.finchcms.edu/cms/biochem/walters/sweet/history.html 66.
abbott has been hard at work ever since 1970, petitioning the fda for  re-approval in 1973, 1976 and 1982, and also requesting special hearings on the  matter in 1977 and ’78.
initially, may received confirmation that there would  be no problems with importing the whole leaves of the plant or a liquid  concentrate of stevioside.
following the issuance of the bressler report came a period of thickening  political intrigue and red tape, wherein two key figures at the fda failed to  press forward with further investigations, only to leave the fda for jobs with  searle’s law firm, sidley & austin.
while even this has not been a complete list of all of the  artificial/alternative sweeteners that are available, we have at least touched  upon all of the major options currently in use.
better options--updated 12 apr 2004 many healthful and promising alternative sweeteners are now available to  the informed consumer; please note that most of the good options are provided  to us by plants and herbs, while most of the bad options have been created in  laboratories.
essentially,  neotame molecules are aspartame molecules chemically combined with a neohexyl  group.
while the author could not find any information commenting on this fact, the use of a hydrogenation process may or may not be of concern.
"12 searle re-applied for fda approval of aspartame on the very same day that  ronald reagan took office in 1980.
scientific studies on lo han did not begin until the 1970s.
cyclamate enjoyed a great deal of  controversy-free popularity from this time until the late 1960s, when  laboratory tests began to suggest that it caused genetic damage, testicular  atrophy and cancer in rats.
lactitol in particular may be problematic in small doses, especially for lactose-sensitive individuals.103,104 stomach cramping and diarrhea are certainly not as serious as the conditions associated with some of the non-nutritive sweeteners, but the sugar alcohols can cause other more serious problems.
rarely, if ever, does  this situation lend itself to good health.
some technical information about all of the plants in this list may be found in the book, alternative sweeteners, third edition, lyn o’brien nabors (editor).
(some sources also say that the fda refuses to label any natural substance as a sweetener unless it is a carbohydrate.)134 these allegations are based upon two studies--a 1968 rat study and a 1988 mouse study published in a brazilian pharmacological journal.
while there may not be any organized groups at this time  compiling lists of adverse reactions or calling public attention to the  possibilities of danger, this does not necessarily indicate that this compound  presents no danger.
the actual proteins responsible for the sweetness were first isolated from the plant and identified in 1971 by h. van der wel.
is the sucralose or any resulting chemicals safe for the  environment?
when trehalose is ingested, it undergoes a similar digestive process as other disaccharides; it is enzymatically broken into individual glucose molecules which the body then metabolizes.
there are currently a number of outlets through which one may acquire stevia (seewww.holisticmed.com/sweet/sweet.txt ), and they vary quite a bit in taste and quality.
previously it had  been too expensive to extract or produce commercially, but hayashibara  biochemical laboratories of okayama, japan developed a feasible method using  the action of soil microorganisms on starch.
"98 it should be noted that lactitol, mannitol and some of the hydrogenated  starch hydrolysates have less than half of the sweetening power of sucrose, and  for this reason are usually employed for other purposes.
some chemicals are much more than 10 times more toxic in  humans than in rodents (or will cause cancer in humans in low-dose, long-term  exposure and do not cause cancer in rodents at all).
while sugar alcohols are certainly  the lesser of two evils when compared to the non-nutritive sweeteners, they  should be consumed with prudence if at all.
there is a very long historical record of the safety of licorice as a food and a medicinal herb.
the only explanation given by the inspectors for this action was "suspicion of adulteration," which usually means contamination of some sort.
early european settlers sweetened foods, teas and other beverages  with stevia, and gauchos (the local version of what we might call cowboys) in  the region of paraguay later used it as a sweetener.
"researchers at utah state university found that even at low levels aspartame induces adverse changes in the pituitary glands of mice.
currently, more than 40 nations have given their approval to sucralose, although a number of european nations still have it under preliminary
usage of saccharin leveled off when sugar became  available once again, but it had entered the scene to stay.
abbott reportedly wished to use the new product to mask the bitter taste of certain antibiotics and medications.85
sucralose the fourth fda-approved non-nutritive sweetener is sucralose, chemically  known as  1,6-dichloro-1,6-dideoxy-beta-d-fructofuranosyl-4-chloro-4-deoxy-alpha-d-galactopyranoside.
traditional chinese doctors consider it to be a yin substance, meaning that it releases excess heat from the body.
www.eatright.org/public/governmentaffairs/92_adap0598.cfm 2.
this would have left the fda in the position of having to publicly defend its actions, something which they were unwilling to do.
while the fda classifies fos as  being only a food ingredient which is usually used as a fat-replacer in low-fat  foods, it does have some potential as a sweetening substance.
hydrogenation of fats and oils is certainly detrimental to the nutritive qualities of said items, but the process must be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
it also takes the prize as the sweetener with the most bizarre application--a japanese company recently began to market a line of women’s t-shirts with xylitol infused into the fabric.
(it is not cheap, though--1 ounce of the dried fruit goes for $30.)
http://web1.caryacademy.org/chemistry/rushin/studentprojects/compoundwebsites/2001/ saccharin/bittersweet.htm 43.
searle owned the original patent on aspartame and did the original laboratory studies on its safety.
after conducting extensive tests on stevia and stevioside, they accepted it as a safe alternative and gave it government sanction for widespread usage.
www.sweetpoison.com/aspartame-sweeteners.html 48.
while the rats in the study did suffer from the effects of toxicity and from a reduction in the numbers of offspring, kuc points out that they were fed the entire stevia plant, not just the sweet leaves.
for this very reason, japanese and dutch regulatory agencies agree that the total daily consumption of glycyrrhizin should not exceed 200 milligrams.
nielson and his company were among the first to feel the  regulatory backlash directed at stevia and its purveyors.
fahlberg later  applied for and received german patents on saccharin and moved his operation to  westerhusen, germany.
the direct result of this chain of events is the severe stomach cramping and diarrhea that many people experience after ingesting too much sugar alcohol.
(remember, chemically speaking saccharin is  called an o-toluene sulfonamide derivative.)
the first of these two was conducted in uruguay by a purdue university biochemist named joseph kuc.
while technically classified by the fda as a carbohydrate, this placement was made by default only.
the fda recommends that pregnant and lactating women, people with  advanced liver disease and phenylketonurics avoid products containing aspartame  due to concern over metabolizing phenylalanine.
thunbergii (and other species in this genus), dioscoreophyllum  cumminsii diels, capparis masakai levl, pentadiplandra brazzeana baillon,  curculigo latifolia, lippia dulcis, rubus suavissimus, phlomis betonicoides  diels, polypodium vulgare, polypodium glycyrrhiza, and pterocarya paliurus  batal.163
despite lipton’s credentials  within the food industry, they met with similar bureaucratic resistance.
www.mercola.com/2000/dec/3/sucralose_dangers.htm 67.
also, there has been talk of growing canadian stevia as a cash crop, possibly even replacing canadian tobacco.137 to summarize, while we will all have to wait to see what the future holds for stevia, we should not wait to begin using it and reaping its benefits.
scheele named the substance after the greek word "glykys," which means "sweet."150
naturally occurring sources of fos generally contain mixtures of various degrees of polymerization, but standardized extracts of fos generally average at a dp of about 4.
this is a potential concern to those who consume  a lot of low-carb, energy bar types of foods.
sucralose is also said to be diabetic-safe, as it does not increase blood sugar levels.
traditions may already know that the words "sugar-free" on a product label frequently translate into "do not take internally--contains aspartame," but what about all of the other sugar substitutes out there?
fahlberg and remsen published their findings jointly, naming the compound saccharin after the latin saccharum, which means sugar.30 what poetic justice for the name of the first artificial sweetener.
inulin  may be standardized to an average dp of 22, which is considered to be  long-chain inulin.159 these chains of fructose cannot be broken down by the human digestive  system, but they can be broken down and consumed by the bacteria in the  digestive tract.
nutritive sweeteners include sugar sweeteners (e.g.,  refined sugars, high fructose corn syrup, crystalline fructose, glucose. . .
not only does sucralose break down within the digestive system, but, as the  fda notes, "[it] may hydrolyze in some food products…[and] the  resulting hydrolysis products may also be ingested by the consumer."
methanol, or wood alcohol, is a known poison.
although soft drinks account for more than 70 percent of aspartame consumption, this sweetener is added to more than 6,000 foods, personal care products, and pharmaceuticals.
certainly the best answer would be to give up soft drinks entirely in favor of a more health-promoting alternative, but this is much easier said than done for many long-time addicts of the sugar-water industry.
however--and this is the important part--while the fda has  chosen to say that it cannot be proven that saccharin’s effect on mice is  relevant to humans, one could just as easily say that the studies have failed  to prove that there is no link between saccharin and bladder cancer in humans.
to  further dispute the manufacturer’s claims, research indicates that about  20 to 30 percent of the absorbed sucralose is metabolized.
nhdc is marketed world-wide under the name citrosa by the spanish-based exquim, s.a. company, a subsidiary of the pharmaceutical group ferrer internacional, s.a.109,110,111 clearly, most artificial sweeteners in use today pose significant dangers.
www.aspartamekills.com/lydon.htm 19.www.aspartamekills.com 20.
many detractors have raised concerns due to the fact that sucralose is a chlorinated molecule.
149 glycerine is a colorless, odorless, viscous liquid with a very sweet and slightly astringent taste.
higher authorities in the fda quietly consigned the bressler report to the archives, and only made it public later, through a freedom of information act request.11 while the public remained ignorant, searle & co had maneuvered to bring in donald rumsfeld, previously the chief of staff in the ford administration and the then secretary of defense, as their new ceo.
after conducting extensive tests on stevia  and stevioside, they accepted it as a safe alternative and gave it government  sanction for widespread usage.
the earliest introduction into this country was probably in the late 1970s or early ‘80s.
sugar alcohols the eight categories of sugar alcohols may be subdivided into mono-, di-  and polysaccharides.
"lo han: a natural sweetener comes of age" article from whole foods, june 2003, by peilin guo and dallas clouatre. 135- "sinfully sweet?" article from new age journal, jan./feb.
fitness-conscious people may appreciate glycerine because it  increases blood volume (thus helping delay dehydration when exercising),  enhances temperature regulation and is claimed to improve physical performance  in the heat.
to quote from dr. janet starr hull: "saccharin is not  genotoxic; the presumed mechanism of toxicity is the binding of saccharin to  urinary proteins (not normally found in humans), creating a nidus for the  formation of silicate crystals, which are cytotoxic to bladder epithelium (of  rats)."50
fructooligosaccharides (fos) terminology the substances which will be discussed here are often referred to on  product labels by many (seemingly) interchangeable terms: artificial/synthetic  sweeteners, sugar alternatives, alternative sweeteners, non-nutritive  sweeteners, non-caloric/low-cal/low-carb sweeteners, diabetic-safe sweeteners,  etc.
"74 it is not only diabetics who need worry about the safety of sucralose.
it was discovered by accident in 1965 by mr. james schlatter, a  scientist who was working on new drugs to treat ulcers, when he licked his  fingers to pick up a piece of paper and accidentally tasted the intense  sweetness of the compound he had created.
as soon as they were satisfied with the results of their  testing, hoechst began to market their new product around the world.
the fda recommends that pregnant and lactating women, people with advanced liver disease and phenylketonurics avoid products containing aspartame due to concern over metabolizing phenylalanine.
fructooligosaccharides (usually abbreviated to fos) and inulin are terms referring to naturally-occurring, mildly-sweet, indigestible carbohydrates.
rather than do so,  they changed the product's name to sunectar and hoped that this would resolve  the issue.
not long afterward, the u.s. department of agriculture paid a visit to the  company's headquarters.
in 1974 the food and drug administration gave its first halting approval to  aspartame, then a product of pharmaceutical giant g.d. searle & company.
they fail to point out that the methanol content of a diet soft drink is 15 to 100 times higher than that of fruit juices."
more correctly, there are five separate sweet  proteins which may be isolated and derived from katemfe berries--thaumatins i,  ii, iii, a and b.
other sources also link aspartame consumption with parkinson’s disease, alzheimer’s disease and the gulf war syndrome experienced by u.s. soldiers after serving in iraq during operation: desert storm.19
a person ingesting the tdi  for some chemical may find that it causes cancer, or immune system or  neurological problems, after many years or decades of use.
according to dr. lydon, "phenylalanine and aspartic acid are amino acids that are normally supplied by the foods we eat; however, they can only be considered natural and harmless when consumed in combination with other amino acids.
since it is entirely likely that both of them will all be approved at some point in the future, they must be considered as well.
how will this chemical affect aquatic life such as fish, as well as other animals?
consequently, there is a great deal to be said on the subject of  aspartame.
www.ecit.emory.edu/ecit/chem_ram/synth/hodgin.htm 63.
searle owned the original patent on aspartame and did the original laboratory  studies on its safety.
at  cold temperatures, methanol will spontaneously give rise to a colorless toxin  known as formaldehyde.
while acesulfame-k is frequently blended with aspartame to achieve synergistic sweetening capabilities, twinsweet is actually a blend of the two at the molecular level.
prolonged storage, particularly at high temperatures and low ph, causes sucralose to break down into other chemicals, including 4-chloro-4-deoxy-galactose, 1,6-dichloro-1,6-dideoxy-fructose and 1,6-dichlorofructose, none of which has ever specifically been tested in terms of safety for human ingestion.
so, if the manufacturer claims that the dose was equivalent to 50 diet sodas, then the tdi would be one-half (1/2) of a diet soda, and even that dose may or may not be safe.
children who regularly consume sugar alcohols also seem to have an increased incidence of childhood obesity.105
while there may not be any organized groups at this time compiling lists of adverse reactions or calling public attention to the possibilities of danger, this does not necessarily indicate that this compound presents no danger.
the finer point here which is frequently overlooked is that nonspecific  extracts of fos will provide nourishment for friendly bacteria (lactobacilli,  bifidobacteria, etc.) and pathogenic bacteria (e. coli, salmonella,  staphylococcus, clostridium, etc.)
the talin company changed hands several times and underwent a corporate merger before being acquired by the braes group, a european natural food ingredients company.
phenylalanine decomposes into diketopiperazine (dkp) a known carcinogen, when exposed to warm temperatures or prolonged storage.
this plant grows wild in much of southern europe and in asia.
"1 while one might  justifiably quibble with the ada over its use of the term "nutritive"  to describe many highly-refined sweeteners, that is how the diet dictocrats  have structured the official terminology.
there are currently no plans to seek approval of these substances for human consumption, but they may at some point be utilized in other ways and thereby find their way into the food chain.78 the chemical formula of neotame, published in the february 10, 1998 federal register, reveals that neotame is extremely similar to aspartame.
so it seems that tagatose only occurs "in nature" to the same extent that heat-treated dairy products occur "in nature."
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 118- www.emperorsherbologist.com/steviahist.shtml 119-
keep in mind that the tdi is just an estimate.
it is suspected  of causing birth defects and chemical disruptions in the brain.
sunrider, which had recently began marketing a stevioside sweetening  product called trusweet, was informed of a trademark infringement complaint  filed by the nutrasweet company against their product.
licorice root has been used since ancient egyptian times to treat upset stomachs, chest infections and coughs, and has also been used by various cultures to ward of demons and invoke mystical powers.138 licorice root may be used in its unadulterated, ground-up form, or the primary sweetening compound may be extracted.
this may be why consumption of tagatose in large amounts reportedly causes  gastrointestinal distress, including diarrhea, nausea and flatulence.
in the u.s., it is only allowed as a flavor ingredient (used at levels below the threshold of sweetness) in 16 food categories.
" 21 this dismissal of phenylalanine and aspartic acid as significant health  hazards is a dangerous bit of sleight of hand.
’"102 the ada description hints at more than it actually says.
although several sugar alcohols are touted as naturally occurring in various foods--which is technically true--all commercially-available sugar alcohols are synthesized by the hydrogenation of sugars from various sources.94
in 1912, saccharin was briefly banned in the us due to concerns about its safety.
after  experimentally hydrogenating a particular citrus phenolic glycoside, they  observed that the resultant compound was very sweet, 1500 to 1800 times sweeter  than sucrose.
"20 supporters of aspartame claim that the levels of methanol are not high enough to be worrisome and that phenylalanine and aspartic acid are of only limited concern.
glycerine (which is technically known as a trihydric alcohol) definitely deserves to be included in the macronutrient arena, even though it defies clear categorization.
the term "trehalose" was coined in later years when the same substance was identified as a component of the secretions of a beetle in the iraqi desert.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 83.
there was relatively little popular awareness of stevia at that time, but a handful of food producers were including it in their products under that most nebulous of categories--"natural flavors."
www.ketofoods.com/updates/sugaralcohol_article.html 95.
(stevioside, the most commonly-used extractive of stevia, is about 300 times sweeter than sucrose.)120 stevia leaves and stevioside are virtually calorie-free, beneficial in the prevention of cavities and do not trigger a rise in blood sugar.
after the us cyclamate ban, would-be producers were legally obligated to  prove its safety to the fda’s satisfaction if it was to be re-approved.
the present formula has abandoned the cyclamate,  but the main ingredient is still saccharin.40 during this entire period of saccharin’s history, the fda allowed the  makers of saccharin (and cyclamate) to determine for themselves whether it was  a safe product for human consumption.41
the fda's direct additives branch chief, eugene coleman, replied: "this may sound flippant, but we [will] know that number when we see it."133
there has never been any recorded incidence of adverse reactions to lo han fruit or its extractives.143,144,145
and finally we come to the hodgepodge category of "what is left,"  a few other sweet plants and herbs that have been and are still being tested  for possible use as commercial sweeteners.
(many herbalists  recommend against long-term, excessive consumption of ground licorice root due  to concerns that it also may cause hypertension and edema in some people.)
not long afterward, the u.s. department of agriculture paid a visit to the company's headquarters.
. be categorized as sugar replacers because they can replace sugar  sweeteners, usually on a one-to-one basis; offer less energy; and offer  potential health benefits, such as reduced glycemic response and reduced dental  caries risk.
consumption of saccharin by these sensitive individuals may result in pruritus (itching), urticaria (blotchy skin discolorations), eczema, photosensitivity, prurigo (a condition characterized by small, intensely itchy skin bumps), wheezing, nausea, diarrhea, tongue blisters, tachycardia, fixed eruptions, headache, diuresis (increased urination) or sensory neuropathy.47 also, regardless of sulfa allergies, consumption of saccharin-sweetened infant formula has been associated with irritability, hypertonia (abnormal increase in muscle tension with reduced muscle elasticity), insomnia, opisthotonos (an abnormal posturing condition characterized by rigidity and severe arching of the back) and strabismus (a condition in which the eyes uncontrollably deviate from the intended object of focus).
in one meeting with fda officials,  an ahpa representative asked what amount of information would be required for  submission before the fda would formally file a petition.
the burden of proving that such synthetic compounds are safe,  from the process of their creation through the human digestive system and into  our environment, should fall upon the purveyors of these chemicals.
there is nary a commercial infant  formula out there which is truly healthful, whether or not it contains  saccharin.)
"1 while one might justifiably quibble with the ada over its use of the term "nutritive" to describe many highly-refined sweeteners, that is how the diet dictocrats have structured the official terminology.
www.fda.gov/bbs/topics/answers/ans00155.html 89.
from its discovery in 1879  until 1917, saccharin was primarily employed as an antiseptic agent and food  preservative.32 fahlberg, an experienced sugar chemist, did recognize the  potential of the new compound for sweetening purposes, and he aggressively  attempted to profit on these capabilities as early as 1885.
we can expect to see much  more of naturlose/tagatose in the future, as arla foods and spherix are both  actively promoting its use around the world.107 trehalose trehalose, a disaccharide composed of two glucose molecules, is only 45  percent as sweet as sucrose.
any adverse reaction to a food item that is regulated under the fda’s authority is supposed to be reported back to their adverse reaction monitoring system (arms).
a quotation from the holistic healing website explains the fallacy of this assertion.
an excellent resource for recipes using glycerine as a sweetener is the complete candida cookbook, by gail burton.
tagatose, known scientifically as d-tagatose, is very new to the sweetening scene and there is comparatively little to be said about it.
however, it is still used in 50 countries around the world--the major producers and exporters are located in china, indonesia, taiwan and spain86--so
it is not yet available as a commercial tabletop sweetener, and it was  as recently as august 21, 2003, that 7-eleven inc. became the very first  american company to use tagatose (marketed by spherix as naturlose) in a food  or beverage--a diet-pepsi-flavored slurpee drink.
www.karinya.com/neotame.htm 17.
glycerine glycerine (also spelled as glycerin or called glycerol) takes the prize as  the most versatile and vexatious substance in our discussion.
since no specific monitoring practices or epidemiological studies of acesulfame-k are currently in progress, it is possible that relevant data may not be gathered for some time.
he may be contacted at yogaspectrum (at) yahoo.com .
there were plenty of favors to be called in from within the new administration, and significant clout was also to be wielded by robert shapiro and utah senator orrin hatch.
information taken from wisdom natural brands stevia product brochures 120-
aspartame is approved for use in more than 100 nations.7 it has been sold around the world under various brand names including nutrasweet, equal, spoonfuls, canderel, bienvia, natrasweet and miwon.
there were plenty of favors to be called in  from within the new administration, and significant clout was also to be  wielded by robert shapiro and utah senator orrin hatch.
try to seek out glycerine available from a product line which is trustworthy--frontier natural products is one reliable source, available on the internet at www.frontiercoop.com/shop/merchant.mvc (search under the "glycerin" spelling).
the official status of stevia has not changed as of the time of this article’s publication, but the future of this contentious little plant is being shaped in very exciting ways.
sugar alcohols are not broken down in the stomach, so they make their way intact into the bowels.
it has been shown that saccharin causes bladder cancer in male rats of a certain genetic predisposition, but this appears to be a gender- and species-specific phenomenon.
when aspartame is digested it breaks down into the amino acids phenylalanine and aspartic acid, plus methanol.
there are currently a number of outlets through which one may acquire stevia  (seewww.holisticmed.com/sweet/sweet.txt ), and they vary quite a bit in taste  and quality.
thaumatin is metabolized by the human body similarly as other proteins.
the most widely used non-nutritive sweetener is aspartame, scientifically known as 1-aspartyl 1-phenylalanine methyl ester.4
according to the splenda website, "sucralose, is made from sugar through a patented, multi-step process that selectively replaces three hydrogen-oxygen groups on the sugar molecule with three chlorine atoms.
trehalose occurs naturally in a number of foods, including honey, wines,  sherries, breads, lobster, crab, prawns, brine shrimp, various edible fungi  (including commercially-grown mushrooms), insects, baker’s yeast and  brewer’s yeast.
the fda said that they needed more specific and scientific information, so the herbal research foundation did extensive scientific research to address specific fda concerns.
according to dr. lydon,  "phenylalanine and aspartic acid are amino acids that are normally  supplied by the foods we eat; however, they can only be considered natural and  harmless when consumed in combination with other amino acids.
scientists call them sugar alcohols because part of their structure chemically resembles sugar and part is similar to alcohol, but they don’t completely fit into either category.93 each of these substances has its own particular history, but mercifully--for the purpose of brevity--they all share a great deal of similarity.
indeed, the fda showed very little interest in saccharin until 1969, when researchers discovered that cyclamate was carcinogenic in laboratory mice.
that corporation was monsanto.
licorice root licorice root is a substance of which virtually everyone is aware, but  comparatively few people realize its sweetening properties.
two rat studies suggest that the additive might cause cancer. . .
www.eatright.org/public/governmentaffairs/92_adap0598.cfm 47.
www.eridex.com/html/history/html 96.
there is nary a commercial infant formula out there which is truly healthful, whether or not it contains saccharin.)
although soft drinks  account for more than 70 percent of aspartame consumption, this sweetener is  added to more than 6,000 foods, personal care products, and pharmaceuticals.
however, some researchers dispute  these claims.
shashikant phadnis, a foreign graduate student working on the project, misunderstood a request for "testing" of a chlorinated sugar as a request for "tasting," leading to the discovery that many chlorinated sugars are hundreds or thousands of times sweeter than sucrose.65 following this discovery, tate & lyle arranged with johnson & johnson, then the world’s largest health care company, to develop and test a new sweetener from chlorinated sugars.
only about 20 percent of ingested tagatose is absorbed, this taking place by means of metabolism in the small intestine.106 tagatose manufacturers have presented their product as a virtual panacea, claiming that it promotes weight loss, is safe for diabetics, shows potential as a therapeutic agent in the treatment of type ii diabetes, reduces "spiking" of blood glucose levels, fights plaque and halitosis, is a prebiotic (provides food for healthy intestinal bacteria), fights colon cancer, combats certain types of pathogenic bacteria and microorganisms, and raises blood levels of the "good" hdl-cholesterol.
in 1977, canadian scientists found that high doses of saccharin seemed to cause cancer in laboratory rats.
while sugar alcohols may indeed occur in nature, their usage as sweeteners  also suffers from the same problem as many other sweeteners, pharmaceutical  drugs and other substances today--one single factor from a natural food item is  being isolated from its normal co-constituents and consumed at levels that are  difficult to obtain when eating the food item itself.
lo han kuo lo han kuo (sometimes spelled lo han guo) is a sweet chinese fruit in the  cucumber, melon, squash, and gourd family which has the potential to be as good  of a natural option as stevia.
the fda has no apparent interest in pressing the issue.
while the molecular structure of glycerine from any of these sources is exactly the same, there are obvious concerns as to the source of the glycerine which one may be consuming.
these are the substances which are usually, but not always, identifiable by the suffix "-itol"--sorbitol, xylitol, mannitol, erythritol, lactitol, maltitol, isomalt and hydrogenated starch hydrolysates (hsh).
"in order to estimate a potential safe dose [of a chemical] in  humans, one must divide the lowest dose given to rodents that was seen to have  any negative effects. . .
twinsweet dissolves in water into separated molecules of the two individual components, so all the safety concerns of aspartame and acesulfame-k should be applied as well to twinsweet.63
they chose it due to the fact that thaumatin molecules have a very unusual crystalline structure, suitable to the research that nasa was doing at the time.)114 immediately grasping upon the potential of this newly-identified sweetener, the british sugar multinational tate & lyle established massive katemfe plantations in ghana, liberia and malaysia in the 1970s.
they are not only safe for diabetics and hypoglycemics, but in some countries stevia leaves are even prescribed as a medicinal substance for these conditions because they normalize pancreatic function and thus aid in the metabolism of sugar.121 the whole stevia leaves contain a number of beneficial compounds, including ascorbic acid, calcium, beta-carotene, chromium, cobalt, iron, magnesium, manganese, niacin, phosphorus, potassium, riboflavin, selenium, silicon, sodium, thiamin, tin and zinc.122 (it should be noted that only the whole stevia leaves have nutritive benefits.
www.btinternet.com/~amcbryan/aspartame/comment1a.htm 88.
saccharin was discovered in 1879 by constantine fahlberg, a chemistry  research assistant working in the laboratory of professor ira remsen at johns  hopkins university.29 according to fahlberg’s account, he accidentally  spilled some laboratory material on his hand and noticed the sweet taste later  in the evening when he was eating dinner.
even though this was not full fda  approval, to quote splenda’s own website, the product was "approved  for use in 15 food and beverage categories, the broadest initial approval ever  given to a no-calorie sweetener."
(don’t these scientists wash their hands after a hard day at the lab?)
apologists for non-nutritive  sweeteners point to this as a way of dismissing negative test data.
"in order to estimate a potential safe dose [of a chemical] in humans, one must divide the lowest dose given to rodents that was seen to have any negative effects. . .
the sweetness of these purified substances varies between 50 to 450 times that of sucrose.
compared to aspartame and saccharin, there is very little information available about acesulfame-k. it is 200 times sweeter than sucrose (table sugar) 51
these five are collectively referred to as thaumatin in a generalized sense.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 64.
this product contains  saccharin which has been determined to cause cancer in laboratory animals." 44 during the ensuring 26 years, the fda and other groups performed numerous  studies attempting to determine conclusively whether or not saccharin was a  carcinogen.
http://web1.caryacademy.org/chemistry/rushin/studentprojects/compoundwebsites /2001/saccharin/history.htm 35.
licorice root is a substance of which virtually everyone is aware, but comparatively few people realize its sweetening properties.
prebiotics, like probiotics (such as live-culture yogurt--substances which  actually contain the same bacteria which are the beneficial flora in the human  digestive tract), help promote regularity, prevent yeast overgrowth and are  beneficial for those with crohn’s disease, colitis or who are on kidney  dialysis.
problems associated with aspartame consumption are neatly summarized in nourishing traditions.
although several sugar alcohols are touted as naturally occurring in  various foods--which is technically true--all commercially-available sugar  alcohols are synthesized by the hydrogenation of sugars from various sources.94
magnasweet is currently only available to the food processing industry.
as is also the case with stevia, the human digestive system is unable to break down the sweet compounds within lo han fruit.
nhdc is grouped as a flavonoid, yet it has not been discovered anywhere in a  naturally-occurring state.
this appears to be the only safety issue with trehalose.
the company has made a fortune off aspartame, at the expense of those who  purchase and consume it, and at the hazard of those who actually do the work of  producing and handling it.
(of course it is  also helpful for the compounds to be dirt cheap to produce in bulk.)
in 1912, saccharin was briefly banned in the us due to concerns about its  safety.
www.eatright.org/public/governmentaffairs/92_adap0598.cfm 53.
to quote from dr. joseph mercola’s website ( www.mercola.com/2000/dec/3/sucralose_dangers.htm): "although sucralose is  being flushed down toilets [after human excretion]. . .
modern scientific research has shown that lo han extracts help relieve gastritis, constipation and respiratory inflammations, and they also appear to inhibit the epstein-barr virus and display anti-carcinogenic properties.148 while the fda has not made any conclusive rulings upon the status of lo han and its extractives, they are currently available to u.s. consumers and have not been opposed in any way by regulatory authorities.
www.daniscosweeteners.com/dsw/web/dsw/publicsite/presentation/home/ news_and_events/latest_news.html&newspath=/web/dsw/publicsite/content/news/ stay_cool_in_the_summer_heat.html 102.
in september of 1997, hoechst established a subsidiary corporation called nutrinova nutrition specialties & food ingredients, in part to handle the growing business of acesulfame k, marketed under the brand name sunett.58 it has also been sold under the names sweet one, swiss sweet and sweet & safe.
non-nutritive sweeteners (e.g., saccharin, aspartame, acesulfame-k. . .
molecules of glycerine form the structural backbone of nearly all vegetable oils and animal fats.
while it is not generally recommended that glycerine be consumed undiluted, there are a number of health benefits to consuming it as a component of foods or beverages.
140 glycyrrhizin and other compounds derived from it are widely used in japan for sweetening foods, beverages, medicines, and tobacco.
he obtained a us patent on the new substance without crediting professor remsen’s role in its discovery or even seeking remsen’s consent, and then proceeded to open a small plant in new york to manufacture saccharin in bulk.
a handful of companies are marketing lo han sweetening products in the u.s. and elsewhere.
at cold temperatures, methanol will spontaneously give rise to a colorless toxin known as formaldehyde.
the direct result of this  chain of events is the severe stomach cramping and diarrhea that many people  experience after ingesting too much sugar alcohol.
lo han kuo (sometimes spelled lo han guo) is a sweet chinese fruit in the cucumber, melon, squash, and gourd family which has the potential to be as good of a natural option as stevia.
also, there has been talk of growing  canadian stevia as a cash crop, possibly even replacing canadian tobacco.137 to summarize, while we will all have to wait to see what the future holds  for stevia, we should not wait to begin using it and reaping its benefits.
on the rare occasions when someone managed to get a straight answer from an  fda official as to their bizarre stance towards stevia, the usual reasons have  been suspicions of toxicity and/or a possible adverse effect on fertility.
therefore, an excessive  load (e.g., greater than 50 g sorbitol per day, greater than 20 g mannitol per  day) may cause diarrhea. . . .
the fda also admits that  aspartic acid has the potential to cause brain damage at very high doses, but  they assure us that "under normal intake levels, the brain’s  mechanism for controlling aspartic acid levels ensures no adverse effects.
the company responded by formally  petitioning for stevia’s gras status and presenting the fda with  substantial evidence that stevia had a long history of safe usage.
(a particularly beneficial subset of the flavonoids is the bioflavonoids, which are sometimes collectively called "vitamin p.")
by varying this manufacturing process,  different end products may be created to meet different requirements of the  food processing industry.
the fda  declined to even process the company’s petition and continued to pressure  them to stop using stevia, as well as to turn over the names of other companies  which were using the controversial sweetener.
no substantial ground was gained until 1985, when the cancer assessment committee of fda’s center for food safety and applied nutrition concluded that cyclamate is not a carcinogen.
stevioside extracts merely function as a  sweetener and pass through the body undigested, although they do possess  anti-viral and anti-bacterial properties.)123 when applied topically, the  stevia leaves also fight acne and speed wound healing while also reducing the  formation of scar tissue.124
(although many  people equate licorice with the sweet red strips of candy called by the same  name, those do not actually contain any licorice root.
research conducted with rats, mice and rabbits has shown that sucralose consumption can cause shrinking of the thymus gland (up to 40 percent shrinkage), enlargement of the liver and kidneys, atrophy of lymph follicles in the spleen and thymus, increased cecal weight, reduced bodily growth rate, decreased red blood cell count, hyperplasia of the pelvis, extension of gestational periods in pregnancy, decreased fetal body weights and placental weights, and diarrhea.
products with sorbitol and mannitol may have the following statement on the label because high intakes increase the risk of malabsorption: ‘excess consumption may have a laxative effect.
scheele named the  substance after the greek word "glykys," which means  "sweet."150
jim may, founder  and president of the company, had even gone so far as to submit test samples of  stevia to the fda to assure that it would be okay to use it in the  company’s products.
we will all see soon enough how neotame is received by the public.80,81,82 as a concluding remark on all five of the fda-approved non-nutritive sweeteners, it should be noted that many animal studies on these products only yield negative results when test animals are fed the equivalent of several hundred artificially sweetened products daily.
available online atwww.stevia.net/newagesweet.htm 136- www.emperorsherbologist.com/steviahist.shtml 137-
anticipating this, the wrigley company has already filed several patents to use the new sweetener in its chewing gums.92 having now dealt with all of the currently-approved and pending non-nutritive sweeteners, we must return our attention briefly to the so-called "nutritive" sweeteners.
it is also used in other countries in sweetener blends, chewing gums, vitamin tablets, baked goods, dairy products and pharmaceuticals.117 while talin is not commercially available to the average consumer in this country, it is possible to order the dried, unprocessed fruit of the katemfe plant online atwww.bouncingb.com/thaumatococcus_danielli.php .
" this additional consideration of environmental impact should also be  applied to the other non-nutritive sweeteners, as well as all synthetic foods  and additives.
any  adverse reaction to a food item that is regulated under the fda’s  authority is supposed to be reported back to their adverse reaction monitoring  system (arms).
aspartame the fda has approved 5 non-nutritive sweeteners: aspartame, saccharin,  acesulfame k, sucralose and neotame.2,3
the fda has approved 5 non-nutritive sweeteners: aspartame, saccharin, acesulfame k, sucralose and neotame.2,3
[i]ncomplete absorption causes indirect metabolism of [sugar alcohols] via fermentive (sic) degradation by the intestinal flora.
while the author could not find any information commenting on this fact, the  use of a hydrogenation process may or may not be of concern.
amidst ongoing controversy, aspartame was slowly but surely given full fda approval.
the study documented only very scant information about the quantities of stevia  which the mice consumed and how it was prepared.
by 1902, his new product was causing nervousness in the  german sugar industry.
some presence of fos has been noted in over 36,000 plants worldwide, so this is a very partial list.158 fos is structurally built out of chains of fructose molecules, with the chains ranging from 2 to 60 units long.
according to the ada: "demand for aspartame in the united states rose from  8.4 million pounds in 1986 to 17.5 million pounds in 1992, a figure that  represents more than 80 percent of the world demand.
amidst ongoing  controversy, aspartame was slowly but surely given full fda approval.
http://web1.caryacademy.org/chemistry/rushin/studentprojects/compoundwebsites/2001/ saccharin/history.htm 41.
spanish conquistadors of the sixteenth century learned about stevia from the local guarani and mato grosso societies, who used it to sweeten teas and herbal medicines.
some of the end products do not contain a specific sugar alcohol in any clear majority; these are simply referred to by the generalized term--hydrogenated starch hydrolysate.
the company responded by formally petitioning for stevia’s gras status and presenting the fda with substantial evidence that stevia had a long history of safe usage.
even though this was not full fda approval, to quote splenda’s own website, the product was "approved for use in 15 food and beverage categories, the broadest initial approval ever given to a no-calorie sweetener."
additionally, independent reviewers of johnson & johnson’s tests have found them to be inadequate and methodologically flawed.
alternative sweeteners, third edition, lyn o’brien
these studies turned out very badly and remain as some  of the most damning evidence against aspartame’s safety.8
trehalose is not commercially available to consumers anywhere at this time.108 next on the list is neohesperidin dihydrochalcone, usually abbreviated to nhdc or neohesperidin dc.
the eight categories of sugar alcohols may be subdivided into mono-, di- and polysaccharides.
the exception to this is its use in herbal  tea blends, where the licorice aftertaste may be blended quite well with other  tastes.
canada became the first nation to approve sucralose in 1991,67 soon to be followed by many more.
www.eatright.org/public/governmentaffairs/92_adap0598.cfm 103.
cyclamate was discovered in 1937 by michael sveda, a graduate student at the university of illinois, working on the synthesis of anti-pyretic (anti-fever) drugs.
amazingly, neotame doesn’t even come close to being the sweetest compound that nofre and tinti synthesized.
in all this  time, there have never been any reports of toxicity or adverse reactions to its  usage.
the evidence does seem to support the positive claims made on behalf of these sweeteners, and perhaps this gives them a valid place in certain applications.
however, the fda later reversed course and ordered  the company to stop importing all stevia products.
as such, it has always been a part of the human diet, but has only been available as an isolated ingredient since 1995.
it is  likely for this reason that some people experience gastric distress after  consuming foods containing nonspecific blends of fos--if one already has a  problem with the balance of the intestinal flora, a nonspecific blend of fos  may exacerbate the problem.161 aside from feeding the bacteria of the digestive tract, all forms of fos  act as dietary fiber.
these candy  "licorices" are typically mixtures of corn syrup, sugar, flour,  margarine and artificial flavorings.)
wisdom natural brands stevia product brochures 117.
however, spherix is currently arbitrating a legal dispute against arla foods concerning the new sweetener, thus delaying the entry of tagatose into the us market.
after consumption, sucralose passes through the body without being broken down.
as more and more us sugar was being sent across the ocean to the soldiers in europe, the sweetening needs of the populace at home were met with cheap and plentiful saccharin.
"22 while aspartame has been the subject of hundreds of fda-approved studies, they clearly have not laid to rest the controversy surrounding its safety.
stevia is also used as a sweet food additive in south korea, brazil, argentina and paraguay, and as a dietary supplement in china, western europe and the u.s.126 stevia did not have a very easy entry into the u.s. market.
one of these smaller firms was a utah-based nutritional products company by the name of sunrider international.
amazingly, neotame doesn’t even come close to being the sweetest  compound that nofre and tinti synthesized.
review.68,69,70 the new product made a grand entrance into  the us market with fda approval in 1998.
unfortunately, the dilemma doesn’t end with our choice of beverages.
it is suspected of causing birth defects and chemical disruptions in the brain.
www.ketofoods.com/updates/sugaralcohol_article.html 106.
it was only 16 months later in 1999 when  the fda finished the job and gave full approval for all sweetening purposes.71
in 1996, spherix granted a license to arla foods of denmark to produce and  market the sweetener.
64 sucralose may have the strangest "accidental discovery" story of  all.
a case may certainly be  made that lo han should be allowed as a gras substance due to its substantial  history of safe usage prior to 1958.
the fda said that they needed  more specific and scientific information, so the herbal research foundation did  extensive scientific research to address specific fda concerns.
where it is still used, cyclamate is frequently blended with aspartame and acesulfame-k to make a "super sweetener.
gates openly champions the cause of stevia as a sweetener and has stated that she will go to jail, if necessary, to win the fda’s approval.
acesulfame-k the third of our non-nutritive sweeteners is acesulfame-k, also referred to  as acesulfame potassium (k is the chemical symbol for potassium), potassium  acesulfame, ace-k or ack.
89 similar to aspartame, alitame is composed of amino acids, including  l-aspartic acid, d-alanine and 2,2,4,4-tetramethylthietanyl amine.90
thus, consumption of fos may help to shorten fecal  transit time, increase fecal bulk and reduces constipation.
www.sweetpoison.com/aspartame-sweeteners.html 62.
additional concerns with sugar alcohols stem from the fact that they seem  to increase the frequency of seizures in epileptics, and children are  especially sensitive to the gastrointestinal side effects, possibly due to  their propensity for bingeing on sweet foods.
it is no accident that most of the good options are provided to us by plants and herbs, while most of the bad options have been created in laboratories.
only  about 20 percent of ingested tagatose is absorbed, this taking place by means  of metabolism in the small intestine.106 tagatose manufacturers have presented their product as a virtual panacea,  claiming that it promotes weight loss, is safe for diabetics, shows potential  as a therapeutic agent in the treatment of type ii diabetes, reduces  "spiking" of blood glucose levels, fights plaque and halitosis, is a  prebiotic (provides food for healthy intestinal bacteria), fights colon cancer,  combats certain types of pathogenic bacteria and microorganisms, and raises  blood levels of the "good" hdl-cholesterol.
no matter how the glycerine molecules find their way into the digestive  system, their fate seems to depend upon the energy status of the person at that  moment.
once a petition is filed, the information submitted becomes available for public review during the same time period in which the fda is reviewing it.
may, who had  only been selling between $100 and $200 worth of stevia per month, says that he  was also told by one fda agent that "if [the fda] wanted to make carrots  [be] against the law, we could do it."128
some presence of fos has been noted in over  36,000 plants worldwide, so this is a very partial list.158 fos is structurally built out of chains of fructose molecules, with the  chains ranging from 2 to 60 units long.
www.btinternet.com/~amcbryan/aspartame/comment1a.htm 92.
the moratorium was extended seven times, until 1991 when the fda decided it was no longer suspicious of saccharin as a serious threat.45 technically, ever since that time the fda has given saccharin something of a probationary status, allowing it equal footing with the other three non-nutritive sweeteners but still classifying it as an "anticipated human carcinogen,"46 whatever that means.
similar to the situation with aspartame after it first entered  the market, there are currently no independent, long-term studies on the  effects of sucralose consumption.73 of the few human studies which have been conducted, one focusing on  diabetics using sucralose showed "a statistically significant increase in  glycosylated hemoglobin (hba1c), which is a marker of long-term blood glucose  levels and is used to assess glycemic control in diabetic patients."
will sucralose begin to appear in our water supplies, just as some drugs [such as antibiotics] are beginning to be found? . . .
saccharin is the most thoroughly tested of all the non-nutritive sweeteners--more than 2374 studies have been done, with aspartame coming in second at 598.49 even the most staunch critics are left to admit that no one has been able to draw a definite link between saccharin consumption (even at high levels) and cancer in humans.
under that law, stevia was cleared for import into the u.s., providing that it only be labeled and used as a dietary supplement and not as a sweetener.136 this allows u.s. companies to use and sell stevia, but only by walking the narrow line of not implicating it in any way as a sweetener.
sucralose is also said to be diabetic-safe,  as it does not increase blood sugar levels.
there has never been any recorded incidence of adverse reactions to lo  han fruit or its extractives.143,144,145
any one of them just may turn up on a product  label one day, and having some knowledge of what a substance is may help each  of us to make informed purchases.
to deal with this category, we must first rid  ourselves of the silly idea that the word "nutritive" necessarily  indicates that a substance will contribute anything positive to our general  well being.
notwithstanding the baseless nature of this complaint, sunrider knew that they did not have the economic resources to fight a legal battle with nutrasweet.
www.sweetpoison.com/aspartame-sweeteners.html 54.
the difference is virtually irrelevant to your tongue, but the digestive system has no idea how to handle this unnatural molecule, just as the body cannot properly assimilate many synthetic vitamins, which are mirror images of their natural counterparts.
thunbergii (and other species in this genus), dioscoreophyllum cumminsii diels, capparis masakai levl, pentadiplandra brazzeana baillon, curculigo latifolia, lippia dulcis, rubus suavissimus, phlomis betonicoides diels, polypodium vulgare, polypodium glycyrrhiza, and pterocarya paliurus batal.163
according to a former searle employee, rumsfeld  told them that "no matter what, he would see to it that aspartame would be  approved. . .
it was only 16 months later in 1999 when the fda finished the job and gave full approval for all sweetening purposes.71
they fail to point out that the methanol content  of a diet soft drink is 15 to 100 times higher than that of fruit juices."
sunrider continued to meet with fda stonewalling on the matter and eventually gave up on the idea of using stevia as a sweetener, opting instead to formulate a less-controversial skin-care product containing stevia.
the energy return from indirect metabolism is less than the  direct route; thus, [sugar alcohols] are referred to as reduced-energy or  low-energy sweeteners.
low-calorie sweeteners: present and future (from the world conference on low-calorie sweeteners).
"98 it should be noted that lactitol, mannitol and some of the hydrogenated starch hydrolysates have less than half of the sweetening power of sucrose, and for this reason are usually employed for other purposes.
as of 1995, over 75 percent of the adverse reactions reported to  the arms were due to aspartame.23 a 1995 report from the us department of  health and human services entitled "symptoms attributed to aspartame in  complaints submitted to the fda" (which once again had to be forced into  public light through the freedom of information act) lists 92 separate  categories of symptoms, including the frequency of each reported claim.24 saccharin saccharin, the first artificial sweetener to be discovered, is chemically  classified as an o-toluene sulfonamide derivative.25
polysaccharides refers to a family of sweeteners including  hydrogenated glucose syrups, maltitol syrups and sorbitol syrups, often called  "hydrogenated starch hydrolysates" because they are produced by the  partial hydrolysis of corn, wheat or potato starch and subsequent hydrogenation  at high temperatures and pressure.
it has been given gras status in the u.s., but is only allowed as a  flavor enhancer in flavoring agents, animal feeds, oral care products and  beverages.
for  this very reason, japanese and dutch regulatory agencies agree that the total  daily consumption of glycyrrhizin should not exceed 200 milligrams.
research conducted with rats, mice and rabbits has shown that sucralose  consumption can cause shrinking of the thymus gland (up to 40 percent  shrinkage), enlargement of the liver and kidneys, atrophy of lymph follicles in  the spleen and thymus, increased cecal weight, reduced bodily growth rate,  decreased red blood cell count, hyperplasia of the pelvis, extension of  gestational periods in pregnancy, decreased fetal body weights and placental  weights, and diarrhea.
the lipton tea company then picked up the cause in 1994, submitting a 2-inch thick petition for gras status.
i know of no studies showing what  happens to the chemical when the raw sewage is treated and then released back  into the environment.
early european settlers sweetened foods, teas and other beverages with stevia, and gauchos (the local version of what we might call cowboys) in the region of paraguay later used it as a sweetener.
while the fda interprets this study as casting  reasonable doubt upon the safety of stevia, kuc himself has gone on record as  saying that his results are not supportive of these claims.
in the early 1970s, the japanese government and regulatory agencies began to take a distinct stand against artificial sweeteners, especially aspartame, due to their possible health risks.
www.ecit.emory.edu/ecit/chem ram/synth/hodgin.htm 6.
1996, by linda and bill bonvie.
"researchers at utah state university found that even at low levels  aspartame induces adverse changes in the pituitary glands of mice.
" this additional consideration of environmental impact should also be applied to the other non-nutritive sweeteners, as well as all synthetic foods and additives.
currently, more than 100 countries allow the use of acesulfame-k.55,56 the entry of the new sweetener into the u.s. began in 1988 when, based largely upon acceptance of hoechst’s own research, the fda gave a partial green light for its use as a tabletop sweetener and as an ingredient in baked goods, frozen desserts, alcoholic beverages and candies.57
aspartame and acesulfame-k are the first two sweeteners which have been successfully bonded in this way to form what is known as a "sweetener-sweetener salt."
we can expect to see much more of naturlose/tagatose in the future, as arla foods and spherix are both actively promoting its use around the world.107 trehalose, a disaccharide composed of two glucose molecules, is only 45 percent as sweet as sucrose.
according to the fda’s "final rule" report on sucralose, it was considered to be "weakly mutagenic in a mouse lymphoma mutation assay.
[and neotame]) offer no energy, and, as they sweeten with little volume, can also be referred to as high-intensity sweeteners.
it was originally  synthesized from toluene, a colorless liquid hydrocarbon distilled from coal  tar, which may account for saccharin’s bitter, metallic aftertaste.
cyclamate enjoyed a great deal of controversy-free popularity from this time until the late 1960s, when laboratory tests began to suggest that it caused genetic damage, testicular atrophy and cancer in rats.
it has still not been satisfactorily resolved whether or not cyclamate is a co-carcinogen with other substances or promotes tumor growth, and thus it is still pending re-approval.88 of alitame, there is very little to report.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 107.
when we took them over to the area where we had the stevia, the inspector dug out a bunch of red tags and started slapping them on everything."
those who suffer from candida or other yeast problems may find it  especially beneficial.
it is no accident that most of the good options are provided to us by  plants and herbs, while most of the bad options have been created in  laboratories.
of their numerous other discoveries, carrelame, bernadame, sucrononate and lugduname are the sweetest substances known to man, ranging from 150,000 to over 220,000 times sweeter than sucrose!
www.mercola.com/2000/dec/3/sucralose_dangers.htm 65.
so, if the  manufacturer claims that the dose was equivalent to 50 diet sodas, then the tdi  would be one-half (1/2) of a diet soda, and even that dose may or may not be  safe.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 5.
hereafter, any mention of fos is meant to include  inulin as well, unless otherwise specified.)
the lipton tea company then picked up the cause in 1994, submitting a  2-inch thick petition for gras status.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 126.
this act placed a two-year moratorium on any ban of  saccharin, allowing for further testing to be done, and also mandated that all  products containing saccharin carry the following cautionary label: "use  of this product may be hazardous to your health.
the reader is strongly advised to thoroughly research these plants before attempting to ingest any part(s) of them.
all hsh products have a gras status and are variously from 25 percent to 50 percent as sweet as sucrose.96,97 having reviewed all of the non-nutritive sweeteners and the sugar alcohols, we enter into the murky, little-known world of "what else is out there."
while the johnson & johnson corporation claims that they have hundreds of self-conducted studies demonstrating the product’s safety, sucralose has the fewest independent scientific tests to its credit of all non-nutritive sweeteners.
references (all web addresses were visited on or before october, 12, 2003) 1.
of course, there may be even better options.
nhdc is marketed world-wide under the name citrosa by the  spanish-based exquim, s.a. company, a subsidiary of the pharmaceutical group  ferrer internacional, s.a.109,110,111 healthy options clearly, most artificial sweeteners in use today pose significant dangers.
consumption of saccharin by these sensitive  individuals may result in pruritus (itching), urticaria (blotchy skin  discolorations), eczema, photosensitivity, prurigo (a condition characterized  by small, intensely itchy skin bumps), wheezing, nausea, diarrhea, tongue  blisters, tachycardia, fixed eruptions, headache, diuresis (increased  urination) or sensory neuropathy.47 also, regardless of sulfa allergies,  consumption of saccharin-sweetened infant formula has been associated with  irritability, hypertonia (abnormal increase in muscle tension with reduced  muscle elasticity), insomnia, opisthotonos (an abnormal posturing condition  characterized by rigidity and severe arching of the back) and strabismus (a  condition in which the eyes uncontrollably deviate from the intended object of  focus).
he wrote of the fruit's "extraordinary  power on the palate," and clearly identified its capabilities "to  enhance flavours and mask off-notes."112
in the early 1970s, the japanese government and regulatory agencies began  to take a distinct stand against artificial sweeteners, especially aspartame,  due to their possible health risks.
there are many healthy alternatives to both refined sugar and artificial sweeteners, including maple syrup, dehydrated sugar cane juice (sold as sucanat and rapadura), date sugar, raw unfiltered honey and molasses.
in 1980, johnson & johnson formed a subsidiary company by the name of mcneil specialty products for this purpose.66
a vancouver company by the name of royal-sweet international is developing a stevia sweetener which they plan to export into the booming asian market, a move which just may attract the attention of other corporate interests.
pendergast and the others submitted more than 900 articles to the fda, documenting that the herb has been used safely for "hundreds of years" by "millions of people."
although the fda had not ruled on stevia one way or another at that  time, a provision in federal law allows for the food industry to make a  self-determination of generally recognized as safe (gras) status for items with  a long history of "common use in food" prior to 1958, providing that  it enjoyed widespread use without any apparent adverse health effects.
theodore roosevelt, president at the time, eloquently defended saccharin’s safety by saying, "anybody who says saccharin is injurious to health is an idiot.
aspartame and acesulfame-k are the first two sweeteners which have been  successfully bonded in this way to form what is known as a  "sweetener-sweetener salt."
(unfortunately, this information is very seldom available  when glycerine shows up as an ingredient in a product.)
not  implicating it in any way as a sweetener.
this section has been updated from what originally appeared in the print edition ofwise traditions , winter 2003.
by varying this manufacturing process, different end products may be created to meet different requirements of the food processing industry.
mother nature clearly did not intend for us to have to suffer  from the sugar-free blues.
it has also been noted that acesulfame-k  stimulates insulin secretion in a dose dependent fashion, thereby possibly  aggravating reactive hypoglycemia ("low blood sugar attacks").61 based on these objections, in 1996 cspi urged the fda to reconsider its  position on the new sweetener, but two years later the fda approved  acesulfame-k for all other general sweetening purposes, including non-alcoholic  liquid use.
if a person is in a negative state of metabolic energy, the glycerine may be metabolized into energy through two different processes, gluconeogenesis (the production of blood glucose) or glycolysis (a different energy-creation pathway in the body).156
(fos is something of an umbrella term for a class of oligosaccharides; inulin is a specific type of fos.
www.mercola.com/2000/dec/3/sucralose_dangers.htm 50.
sweeteners from the hsh family commonly serve as  viscosity or bodifying agents, humectants, crystallization modifiers,  cryoprotectants, and rehydration aids.
when aspartame is digested it breaks down into the amino acids  phenylalanine and aspartic acid, plus methanol.
in 1976, a british sugar company by the name of tate & lyle was  conducting experiments in collaboration with queen elizabeth college at the  university of london, searching for ways to use sucrose as a chemical  intermediate.
thaumatin is metabolized by the human body similarly as  other proteins.
[and  neotame]) offer no energy, and, as they sweeten with little volume, can also be  referred to as high-intensity sweeteners.
it is interesting to note that even the manufacturers and the official  regulatory bodies hint at the potential problems with sugar alcohols.
for more information on stevia, the reader is advised to read the book the stevia story: a tale of incredible sweetness & intrigue, by bill and linda bonvie and donna gates.
despite the fact that it is 300 times sweeter than sucrose (table sugar),31 saccharin was not initially used as a sweetener.
in september of  1997, hoechst established a subsidiary corporation called nutrinova nutrition  specialties & food ingredients, in part to handle the growing business of  acesulfame k, marketed under the brand name sunett.58 it has also been sold  under the names sweet one, swiss sweet and sweet & safe.
nhdc does not function  well as the sole sweetening agent in food items due to its slow onset of  sweetness and a lingering menthol or licorice aftertaste.
assuming that the body was in a state of ketosis to begin with.
is the sucralose or any resulting chemicals safe for the environment?
(ergot is a fungus known  to afflict rye and other cereal grains and grasses.)
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 28.
it’s a dilemma that many health-conscious people have witnessed, if not experienced themselves, and it frequently seems to "pop up" over pop (or soda, depending upon one’s regional vernacular).
however, the fda later reversed course and ordered the company to stop importing all stevia products.
by 1902, his new product was causing nervousness in the german sugar industry.
this suggestion was met with significant opposition from a public which had become greatly enamored with the concept of artificial sweeteners and had just lost their only other option at the time, cyclamate.
being a member of the cucurbitaceae family, it was first classified as momordica grosvenorii, then thladiantha grosvenorii, and most recently as siraitia grosvenorii.
according to the fda’s "final rule"  report on sucralose, it was considered to be "weakly mutagenic in a mouse  lymphoma mutation assay.
the production of talin is now handled by a british subsidiary of the braes group, overseal foods, ltd.116 thaumatin was first permitted as a food additive by the japanese in 1979 and has since been approved as a sweetener in australia and several european countries.
this is the holy grail of the artificial  sweetener industry--compounds that taste sweet, are stable in prepackaged foods  and beverages, and which are so foreign to the human diet that our digestive  system cannot metabolize them to create any dietary calories.
mother nature did not intend for us to suffer from the sugar-free blues.
children who regularly consume  sugar alcohols also seem to have an increased incidence of childhood obesity.105
toluene is also used in the manufacture of certain dyes, pharmaceutical drugs and trinitrotoluene, the blasting agent more commonly known as tnt.26 saccharin is currently manufactured by a more cost-effective method, beginning with synthetically produced methyl anthranilate, a compound that also occurs naturally in grape and other fruit juices.
as soon as they were satisfied with the results of their testing, hoechst began to market their new product around the world.
"sinfully sweet?" article from new age journal, jan/feb. 1996, by linda and bill bonvie.
www.foodproductdesign.com/archive/1992/0792de.html 93.
it also helps promote the metabolization of stored body fat.
fructooligosaccharides fructooligosaccharides (usually abbreviated to fos) and inulin are terms  referring to naturally-occurring, mildly-sweet, indigestible carbohydrates.
www.eatright.org/public/governmentaffairs/92_adap0598.cfm 99.
17 the environmental protection agency (epa) defines the "safe  consumption level" of methanol at 7.8 milligrams per day.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 127-
trehalose was given gras status in the us in october of 2000 and is approved as a food additive in britain, japan, korea and taiwan.
aspartame is approved for use in more than 100 nations.7 it has been sold  around the world under various brand names including nutrasweet, equal,  spoonfuls, canderel, bienvia, natrasweet and miwon.
in all this time, there have never been any reports of toxicity or adverse reactions to its usage.
australia and new  zealand allow nhdc as an artificial flavoring.
among those marketing or developing products containing stevia were the lipton tea company, celestial seasonings, and traditional medicinals, as well as a host of smaller firms.
as with lactose (another  disaccharide) which requires a special enzyme, lactase, to break it down, a  small percentage of people are genetically prone towards deficiency in  trehalase, the enzyme that metabolizes trehalose.
if a person is in a negative state of  metabolic energy, the glycerine may be metabolized into energy through two  different processes, gluconeogenesis (the production of blood glucose) or  glycolysis (a different energy-creation pathway in the body).156
consumed in moderation as part of a nutrient-dense diet that includes plenty of good quality fats, these mineral-rich, naturally sweet foods allow us to enjoy the sweet taste while nourishing the body at the same time.
the most widely used non-nutritive  sweetener is aspartame, scientifically known as 1-aspartyl 1-phenylalanine  methyl ester.4
www.ecit.emory.edu/ecit/chem_ram/synth/hodgin.htm 39.
although the fda had not ruled on stevia one way or another at that time, a provision in federal law allows for the food industry to make a self-determination of generally recognized as safe (gras) status for items with a long history of "common use in food" prior to 1958, providing that it enjoyed widespread use without any apparent adverse health effects.
the pituitary gland is the master gland upon which the proper function of all biochemical processes depend.
to quote from the cspi website: "the safety tests of acesulfame-k  were. . .
17 the environmental protection agency (epa) defines the "safe consumption level" of methanol at 7.8 milligrams per day.
cyclamate was banned by the fda that same year.42 the fda proposed also banning saccharin until conclusive tests could prove its safety.
saccharin was discovered in 1879 by constantine fahlberg, a chemistry research assistant working in the laboratory of professor ira remsen at johns hopkins university.29
higher authorities in the fda  quietly consigned the bressler report to the archives, and only made it public  later, through a freedom of information act request.11 while the public  remained ignorant, searle & co had maneuvered to bring in donald rumsfeld,  previously the chief of staff in the ford administration and the then secretary  of defense, as their new ceo.
the  result is an exceptionally stable sweetener that tastes like sugar, but without  sugar’s calories.
of these, the author’s  two product recommendations are slim & sweet from wisdom natural brands ( www.wisdomherbs.com) and sweetlife from chi fai’s inc. ( www.chifaisgourmet.com/cfsweetlife2.htm).
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 36.
usage of saccharin leveled off when sugar became available once again, but it had entered the scene to stay.
table of contents the substances which will be discussed here are often referred to on product labels by many (seemingly) interchangeable terms: artificial/synthetic sweeteners, sugar alternatives, alternative sweeteners, non-nutritive sweeteners, non-caloric/low-cal/low-carb sweeteners, diabetic-safe sweeteners, etc.
sugar alcohols also promote dehydration and loss of electrolytes, creating feelings of excessive thirst.
due to its low sweetness (in comparison to many artificial sweeteners) and strong aftertaste, it has not enjoyed much success as a commercial sweetener.
it is safe for diabetics, but its lack of versatility as an  all-around sweetening agent limits its potential applications.
if anyone has bothered to specifically research the effects of hydrogenating sugars, that information is not readily available at this time.
there are a number of additional substances that defy clear inclusion into the previously discussed categories.
methanol, or wood alcohol, is a  known poison.
while a few other countries had previously given a green  light to tagatose, in april of 2001 the fda accepted it as a gras substance for  use in foods, beverages, cosmetics, toothpastes and pharmaceutical drugs.
disaccharides include lactitol (derived from lactose, 30 percent to 40 percent as sweet as sucrose, gras status), maltitol (derived from maltose, 90 percent as sweet as sucrose, gras status) and isomalt (derived from enzymatically-treated sucrose, 45 percent to 65 percent as sweet as sucrose, gras status).
while the rats in  the study did suffer from the effects of toxicity and from a reduction in the  numbers of offspring, kuc points out that they were fed the entire stevia  plant, not just the sweet leaves.
this author’s personal favorite stevia products are available from wisdom natural brands, found at www.wisdomherbs.com .
they were found to be 3000 times sweeter than sucrose, thus  making thaumatin the sweetest natural substance known to man.113 (thaumatin  also has the unusual distinction of having been selected by nasa to be  synthesized in a space lab orbiting the earth.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 120.
glycerine is not chemically related to sugar and seems to have a very negligible effect on insulin and blood sugar levels, thus making it a safe sweetener for diabetics, hypoglycemics and people with candida yeast problems.
saccharin may be found in ingredient lists under three slightly variant forms--acid saccharin, sodium saccharin and calcium saccharin.27 unlike aspartame, saccharin is not metabolized by the human body and is excreted rapidly through the urine.28
in 1963, nhdc was discovered by two researchers by the names of horowitz and gentili who were studying bitter compounds found in citrus fruits.
nhdc has been accorded various levels of regulatory status around the world.
he observed that the local people used it "to improve sour fruit and bad palm wine."
as so frequently happens when a nation has to buckle down for a protracted war, resources in the us had to be rationed in order to provide for the troops abroad.
two of searle’s own scientists, concerned about the safety of the new product, filed a formal objection to try to keep aspartame from coming to the market.9
mannitol is frequently  used as a dusting agent on chewing gum, intended to prevent the gum from  sticking to the wrapper.
for over 25 years now,  the japanese have used stevia and its extracts as a table top sweetener, in  soft drinks, baked goods, pickles, fruit juices, jams and jellies, candies,  yogurts, pastries, chewing gum, sherbets, toothpaste and tobacco products.
the only explanation given by the inspectors for this action was  "suspicion of adulteration," which usually means contamination of  some sort.
the  sweetness of these purified substances varies between 50 to 450 times that of  sucrose.
the brazilian study involved an overly-small group of mice and suffered from a number of methodological and design flaws.
for this  reason, it is traditionally consumed and served during the hot summer months in  china.
polysaccharides refers to a family of sweeteners including hydrogenated glucose syrups, maltitol syrups and sorbitol syrups, often called "hydrogenated starch hydrolysates" because they are produced by the partial hydrolysis of corn, wheat or potato starch and subsequent hydrogenation at high temperatures and pressure.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 141-
on the rare occasions when someone managed to get a straight answer from an fda official as to their bizarre stance towards stevia, the usual reasons have been suspicions of toxicity and/or a possible adverse effect on fertility.
following the issuance of the bressler report came a period of thickening political intrigue and red tape, wherein two key figures at the fda failed to press forward with further investigations, only to leave the fda for jobs with searle’s law firm, sidley & austin.
a quotation from the holistic healing website explains the fallacy of this  assertion.
"sinfully sweet?" article from new age journal, jan./feb.
the finer point here which is frequently overlooked is that nonspecific extracts of fos will provide nourishment for friendly bacteria (lactobacilli, bifidobacteria, etc.) and pathogenic bacteria (e. coli, salmonella, staphylococcus, clostridium, etc.)
149 glycerine is a colorless, odorless, viscous liquid with a very sweet and  slightly astringent taste.
rather than do so, they changed the product's name to sunectar and hoped that this would resolve the issue.
of course, there may  be even better options.
while the general popularity of acesulfame-k was on the rise, a few voices  began to raise questions.
monosaccharides include sorbitol (derived from glucose, 50 percent to 70 percent as sweet as sucrose, gras status), xylitol (derived from xylan, a substance found in the bark of birch trees, equally sweet as sucrose, gras status),mannitol (derived from glucose syrups, 50 percent to 70 percent as sweet as sucrose, permitted for limited use on an interim basis by the fda) anderythritol (derived from corn products,95 70 percent as sweet as sucrose, gras status).
exercising after consuming these types of products may put one at risk for heat stroke, muscle cramping and cardiovascular problems.
there is also another, lesser-studied concern with saccharin due to the  fact that it is a sulfonamide.
the fda has also alluded to several south american studies which have supposedly questioned the safety of stevia, although they admit that they have never even been able to acquire copies of these studies.
canada became the first nation to approve sucralose in 1991,67 soon to be  followed by many more.
its potential applications include stabilizing proteins in dried or frozen foods, stabilizing flavors, colors and fatty acids, and maintaining the texture of food coatings.
some sources say that  glycerine from propylene alcohol is irritating to the skin and scalp when used  in topical products.153 non-food-grade glycerine is a major by-product in the  production of biodiesel fuels.
available online atwww.stevia.net/newagesweet.htm 138- www.panda.fi/engl/licorice.htm 139- www.holisticmed.com/sweet/sweet.txt 140- alternative sweeteners, third edition.
the  whole stevia leaves contain a number of beneficial compounds, including  ascorbic acid, calcium, beta-carotene, chromium, cobalt, iron, magnesium,  manganese, niacin, phosphorus, potassium, riboflavin, selenium, silicon,  sodium, thiamin, tin and zinc.122 (it should be noted that only the whole  stevia leaves have nutritive benefits.
this  term, or the abbreviation "hsh," may correctly be applied to any of  these products.
concentrated fruit juice) and. .
glycerine is not chemically related to sugar and seems to  have a very negligible effect on insulin and blood sugar levels, thus making it  a safe sweetener for diabetics, hypoglycemics and people with candida yeast  problems.
in addition, large doses of acetoacetamide, a breakdown product, have been shown to affect the thyroid in rats, rabbits and dogs.
fallon, sally and enig, mary g, phd,nourishing traditions, newtrends publishing, 2001, washington, dc. 18.
in 1903, the monsanto corporation began to ship saccharin to a little-known company in georgia called coca-cola.
senator hatch has been an outspoken advocate for the sweetener, possibly due to his holdings in twin lab, a health supplement company that has used aspartame in a number of their products.13 between 1981 and 1985, rumsfeld and searle began seeing the payoff for their newly-formed subsidiary, the nutrasweet company.
the fourth fda-approved non-nutritive sweetener is sucralose, chemically known as 1,6-dichloro-1,6-dideoxy-beta-d-fructofuranosyl-4-chloro-4-deoxy-alpha-d-galactopyranoside.
a  team from the fda conducted its own study of searle’s data and on the  corpses of aspartame-poisoned mice, and issued a scathing document called the  bressler report.10 this report, however, did not spell the end for aspartame.
www.aspartamekills.com/lydon.htm 21.
the so-called nutritive sweeteners include a class of substances known variously as sugar alcohols, polyols, polyalcohols or polyhydric acids.
previously it had been too expensive to extract or produce commercially, but hayashibara biochemical laboratories of okayama, japan developed a feasible method using the action of soil microorganisms on starch.
stevia stevia, another natural sweetener derived from a plant, is becoming a  well-known option in many u.s. health food stores.
the present formula has abandoned the cyclamate, but the main ingredient is still saccharin.40 during this entire period of saccharin’s history, the fda allowed the makers of saccharin (and cyclamate) to determine for themselves whether it was a safe product for human consumption.41
of their numerous other discoveries,  carrelame, bernadame, sucrononate and lugduname are the sweetest substances  known to man, ranging from 150,000 to over 220,000 times sweeter than sucrose!
xylitol, like several other sugar alcohols, exhibits a cooling  effect in the mouth.
within the u.s.,  glycyrrhizin has gras status as a flavoring agent, but is not allowed as a  sweetener.141 to date, there is only one commercial glycyrrhizin product  available--magnasweet from mafco worldwide.
these people may experience  intestinal distress after consuming foods containing trehalose, whether they be  natural sources of the sugar or not.
as noted above in the history of saccharin,  cyclamate was also a part of the original "formula" of sweet’n  low, introduced to the public in 1958.
there are better choices.
phenylalanine decomposes into diketopiperazine (dkp) a  known carcinogen, when exposed to warm temperatures or prolonged storage.
under that law,  stevia was cleared for import into the u.s., providing that it only be labeled  and used as a dietary supplement and not as a sweetener.136 this allows u.s.  companies to use and sell stevia, but only by walking the narrow line of
www.holisticmed.com/neotame/whatis.html 82.
after reviewing the data provided by hoechst’s  product safety tests, the center for science in the public interest (cspi)  concluded that the company had not done an adequate job with the testing and  had ignored problematic data.
118 taken as a whole, the leaves of the stevia plant average at about 30 times  sweeter than sucrose.119 scientists have isolated and named a number of  individual sweet compounds within the stevia plant, chiefly including  stevioside, steviobioside, rebaudiosides a, b, c, d and e, and dulcoside a.
those who are trying to avoid carbohydrates and burn body fat should also know that sugar alcohols will immediately take the body out of ketosis, the state wherein fat reserves rather than dietary calories are being metabolized. . .
while  the molecular structure of glycerine from any of these sources is exactly the  same, there are obvious concerns as to the source of the glycerine which one  may be consuming.
does it remain stabile or react with other substances to form new compounds?
mannitol is frequently used as a dusting agent on chewing gum, intended to prevent the gum from sticking to the wrapper.
any of these names are greatly preferable to the chemical name of the product--5,6-dimethyl-1,2,3-oxathiazine-4(3h)-one-2,2-dioxide.
aside from the five current non-nutritive sweeteners, there are two additional non-nutritive sweeteners under review by the fda--cyclamate and alitame.
all hsh products have a gras status and are variously from 25  percent to 50 percent as sweet as sucrose.96,97 other sweeteners having reviewed all of the non-nutritive sweeteners and the sugar alcohols,  we enter into the murky, little-known world of "what else is out  there."
one source claims that alitame will soon be approved as a sweetener in the us, marketed under the name novasweet.
how will this chemical affect aquatic life such as fish, as well  as other animals?
as mr. nielson himself recalls, "i thought it was strange because they asked specifically to see the stevia [whereas normally] they would just go through and have a look at everything….
in may of 2000, the nutrasweet company was purchased from monsanto by the j.w. childs equity partners, lp.79 the new leadership at nutrasweet must be quite excited about the approval of neotame, as the patent rights on aspartame expired in the 1990s and generic versions have been allowed ever since.
one liter of a beverage sweetened with aspartame may contain as much as 56 milligrams of methanol.18
note that reference numbers in this section correspond to  the "references corresponding to better options addendum" list  following the original references.
alike, whereas standardized extracts of  long-chain inulin will selectively nourish only the friendly flora.
the price foundation itself is playing a role in this cause, but one of the most well-known advocates is donna gates, author of the body ecology diet.
it has also been  shown to reduce both cholesterol and triglyceride levels and may provide  improved absorption of minerals such as calcium, magnesium, iron, and phosphate.
review.68,69,70 the new product made a grand entrance into the us market with fda approval in 1998.
tests performed by the japanese food sanitation council have found that as much as 40 percent of ingested sucralose is absorbed.
increase blood volume.
that dose is then known as the maximum  tolerable daily intake (tdi) for lifetime use.
as soon as it was approved, pepsi announced that it would be used  in a new drink, pepsi one.62 since 1995, there has also been another product available, marketed by the  holland sweetener company as twinsweet.
www.btinternet.com/~amcbryan/aspartame/comment1a.htm 61.
www.aspartamekills.com/lydon.htm 23.www.holisticmed.com/aspartame/summary.html 24.
scientists call  them sugar alcohols because part of their structure chemically resembles sugar  and part is similar to alcohol, but they don’t completely fit into either  category.93 each of these substances has its own particular history, but  mercifully--for the purpose of brevity--they all share a great deal of  similarity.
these  are the substances which are usually, but not always, identifiable by the  suffix "-itol"--sorbitol, xylitol, mannitol, erythritol, lactitol,  maltitol, isomalt and hydrogenated starch hydrolysates (hsh).
prebiotics and probiotics are additionally beneficial when taken  together.160
he obtained a us  patent on the new substance without crediting professor remsen’s role in  its discovery or even seeking remsen’s consent, and then proceeded to  open a small plant in new york to manufacture saccharin in bulk.
when the final product contains 50 percent or more of hydrogenated glucose, it is called a hydrogenated glucose syrup.
118 taken as a whole, the leaves of the stevia plant average at about 30 times sweeter than sucrose.119 scientists have isolated and named a number of individual sweet compounds within the stevia plant, chiefly including stevioside, steviobioside, rebaudiosides a, b, c, d and e, and dulcoside a.
for this reason, fos is considered to be a prebiotic--a substance which provides nourishment for the gastrointestinal flora.
twinsweet dissolves in water into separated molecules of the two individual  components, so all the safety concerns of aspartame and acesulfame-k should be  applied as well to twinsweet.63
this cumulative reaction could spell grave consequences for those who consume aspartame-laden diet drinks and foods on a daily basis.
methanol is also found in fruit juices, and our regulatory agencies have seized upon this fact to assure us that the methanol by-product of aspartame is not harmful.
any of these names are greatly preferable to the  chemical name of the  product--5,6-dimethyl-1,2,3-oxathiazine-4(3h)-one-2,2-dioxide.
johnson & johnson maintains that sucralose passes through the digestive system without any absorption or metabolization, but the fda’s own research has shown that 11 to 27 percent of sucralose is absorbed in humans, while the rest is excreted unchanged in the feces.
while no formal lists currently exist to catalogue adverse reactions to sucralose consumption, dr. mercola provides several anecdotal incidents on his website.
the european union, switzerland, the czech  republic and turkey allow it to be used as a sweetener.
as is also the case with stevia, the human digestive system is unable to  break down the sweet compounds within lo han fruit.
prolonged storage, particularly at high temperatures and low ph, causes  sucralose to break down into other chemicals, including  4-chloro-4-deoxy-galactose, 1,6-dichloro-1,6-dideoxy-fructose and  1,6-dichlorofructose, none of which has ever specifically been tested in terms  of safety for human ingestion.
so where does this leave the matter?
ingredients and others are considered food additives. . . .
glycerine (also spelled as glycerin or called glycerol) takes the prize as the most versatile and vexatious substance in our discussion.
one must keep in mind, however, that fats and oils were hydrogenated for some time before we became aware of the detrimental effects of this practice.
"22 while aspartame has been the subject of hundreds of fda-approved studies,  they clearly have not laid to rest the controversy surrounding its safety.
http://presidiotex.com/bressler/ 11.
ibid 142- www.preparedfoods.com/literature/0006/mafco.htm 143-
(it should be noted that the extensive scientific  studies conducted on stevia by the japanese have not indicated any toxicity or  reproductive hazards.)135 in september of 1995, after much thankless effort on the part of many  parties, the fda finally relented by revising their 1991 import alert with the  issuance of the dietary supplement health and education act.
the plant of which licorice root is the root is the blue flowering pea plant, botanically known as glycyrrhiza glabra.
this term, or the abbreviation "hsh," may correctly be applied to any of these products.
the lo han fruit has been used by local people in southern provinces of china for centuries as a sweetener and a medicinal herb for the treatment of lung congestion, colds, sore throats and minor stomach and intestinal problems.
the third of our non-nutritive sweeteners is acesulfame-k, also referred to as acesulfame potassium (k is the chemical symbol for potassium), potassium acesulfame, ace-k or ack.
monosaccharides include sorbitol (derived  from glucose, 50 percent to 70 percent as sweet as sucrose, gras status), xylitol (derived from xylan, a substance found in the bark of  birch trees, equally sweet as sucrose, gras status),mannitol (derived from glucose syrups, 50 percent to 70 percent as sweet as sucrose,  permitted for limited use on an interim basis by the fda) anderythritol (derived from corn products,95 70 percent as sweet as sucrose, gras  status).
when william dufty published his classic book, sugar blues, he probably did not envisage the dilemma that so many people would face in later years with the profusion of sugar substitutes.
immediately grasping the potential for a new artificial sweetener, hoechst conducted its own safety testing on the compound throughout the 1970s.
when trehalose is ingested, it undergoes a similar digestive process as  other disaccharides; it is enzymatically broken into individual glucose  molecules which the body then metabolizes.
nhdc is a type of flavonoid, a broad term referring to a group of over 4000 substances known to occur naturally in all higher forms of plants.
despite the fact that it is 300 times sweeter than sucrose (table sugar),31  saccharin was not initially used as a sweetener.
there was relatively little popular awareness of stevia at that time, but a  handful of food producers were including it in their products under that most  nebulous of categories--"natural flavors."
stevioside extracts merely function as a sweetener and pass through the body undigested, although they do possess anti-viral and anti-bacterial properties.)123 when applied topically, the stevia leaves also fight acne and speed wound healing while also reducing the formation of scar tissue.124
meanwhile, the public at large continued to gobble up  saccharin-containing products, and every time the moratorium on banning  saccharin expired, congress extended it until more research could be done.
note that reference numbers in this section correspond to the "references corresponding to better options addendum" list following the original references.
among those marketing or  developing products containing stevia were the lipton tea company, celestial  seasonings, and traditional medicinals, as well as a host of smaller firms.
as soon as it was approved, pepsi announced that it would be used in a new drink, pepsi one.62 since 1995, there has also been another product available, marketed by the holland sweetener company as twinsweet.
"some sweeteners are considered generally recognized as safe (gras)
www.ecit.emory.edu/ecit/chem_ram/synth/hodgin.htm 31.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 34.
even if these "impurities" are  within existing manufacturing guidelines, they are still all potentially  dangerous to human health.77 sucralose production and consumption may also pose a threat to the  environment in general.
while we have clearly found  some of the sweeteners in use today to be plagued with numerous dangers, there  are also many healthful and promising options available to the informed  consumer.
sunrider, which had recently began marketing a stevioside sweetening product called trusweet, was informed of a trademark infringement complaint filed by the nutrasweet company against their product.
many  detractors have raised concerns due to the fact that sucralose is a chlorinated  molecule.
lyn o’brien nabors (editor) 122.
information taken from a personal e-mail exchange with overseal color, inc. 117- alternative sweeteners, third edition.
the dilemma goes something like this: "i would really like to cut out all the sugar and empty calories i get from soft drinks, but i’ve heard that the aspartame in the diet drinks is bad for me too.
www.gnc.com/health_notes/food_guide/non_nutritive_artificial_sweeteners.htm 45.www.ecit.emory.edu/ecit/chem_ram/synth/hodgin.htm 46.
consequently, it triggers no rise in blood sugar levels and is completely safe for diabetics and hypoglycemics.
in this case, that compound is  known as glycyrrhizin (or also glycyrrhizic acid).
there  are many healthy alternatives to both refined sugar and artificial sweeteners,  including maple syrup, dehydrated sugar cane juice (sold as sucanat and  rapadura), date sugar, raw unfiltered honey and molasses.
www.sweetpoison.com/aspartame-sweeteners.html 26.
under continuing harassment,  celestial seasonings relented on both counts.129 it would preserve some small measure of the fda’s dignity if these  had only been isolated incidents, or even if they were the worst incidents of  their kind…but it gets worse.
key rat tests were afflicted by disease in the  animal colonies; a mouse study was several months too brief and did not expose  animals during gestation.
a native of paraguay and a member of the sunflower family, the stevia plant is botanically known as stevia rebaudiana.
157 fos is commonly extracted from chicory roots and jerusalem artichokes (as  it occurs in relatively large quantities in these items), but it is also found  in onions, leeks, garlic, common artichokes, bananas, rye, barley, dandelion  leaves, burdock roots and honey.
whereas the patent on aspartame was extremely lucrative for these  companies, it is impossible under u.s. law to hold a patent on a naturally  occurring substance.)
there are a number of additional substances that defy clear  inclusion into the previously discussed categories.
just because they have not been commercially utilized doesn’t necessarily mean that one could not attempt to cultivate them and do some personal experimentation.
however, certain individuals have been known to experience reactions at much lower dosages.
, what happens to it  next is simply a matter for speculation.
to that end, here is a short list of additional sweet plants by botanical name: hydrangea macrophylla seringe var.
a vancouver company by the name of  royal-sweet international is developing a stevia sweetener which they plan to  export into the booming asian market, a move which just may attract the  attention of other corporate interests.
on their own, they enter the central nervous system in abnormally high concentrations, causing aberrant neuronal firing and potential cell death.