they may be used to sweeten drinks such as tea and cocktails, in desserts, as pancake and waffle toppings, on cereals, and for baking, for example.
as with artificial sweeteners, the fda regulates the use of sugar  alcohols.
but they're lower in calories than is regular sugar, making them an attractive alternative.
sugar alcohols (polyols) are carbohydrates that occur naturally in certain fruits and vegetables, but they also can be manufactured.
a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only.
honey and sugar, for instance, are nutritionally similar, and both end up in your body as glucose and fructose.
while artificial sweeteners and sugar substitutes may help with weight management, they aren't a magic bullet and should be used only in moderation.
for instance, some manufacturers call their sweeteners "natural" even though they're processed or refined, as is the case with stevia preparations.
artificial sweeteners may be a good alternative  to sugar if you have diabetes.
in addition, other sugar substitutes are being touted as healthier sweeteners than regular sugar, even if they don't have fewer calories, such as honey and agave nectar.
artificial sweeteners are also known as intense sweeteners because they are  many times sweeter than regular sugar.
possible health concerns with artificial sweeteners artificial sweeteners have been the subject of intense scrutiny for decades.
if you're trying to lose weight or prevent weight gain,  products sweetened with artificial sweeteners rather than with higher calorie  table sugar may be an attractive option.
uses for artificial sweeteners artificial sweeteners  are attractive alternatives to sugar because they add virtually no calories to  your diet.
artificial sweeteners are synthetic sugar substitutes but may be derived from naturally occurring substances, including herbs or sugar itself.
approved sugar alcohols and novel sweeteners include: erythritol
among the natural sweeteners that the fda recognizes as being generally safe for consumption are: uses for natural sweeteners natural sweeteners have a variety of uses both at home and in processed foods.
for permission to reprint multiple copies or to order presentation-ready copies for distribution, use the reprints link below.
artificial sweeteners artificial sweeteners are synthetic sugar substitutes but may be derived  from naturally occurring substances, including herbs or sugar itself.
check the  labels on artificial sweeteners for appropriate home use.
and some artificial sweeteners are derived from naturally occurring substances — sucralose comes from sugar, for example.
some artificial sweeteners may leave an aftertaste.
and some artificial sweeteners are derived from  naturally occurring substances — sucralose comes from sugar, for example.
possible health benefits of natural sweeteners
artificial sweeteners currently approved by the food and drug  administration (fda) are: acesulfame potassium (sunett, sweet one)
and what's their role in your diet?
the fda has also established an acceptable daily intake (adi) for each  artificial sweetener.
and some  sweeteners, such as cyclamate, are not approved in the united states but are  approved for use in other countries.
artificial sweeteners are regulated by the fda as food additives.
certain recipes may need modification, though, because artificial sweeteners provide no bulk or volume, as does sugar.
novel sweeteners, such as stevia, are hard to fit into one particular category because of what they're made from and how they're made.
sugar alcohols are often combined with artificial sweeteners in products to enhance sweetness.
although natural sugar substitutes may seem healthier than processed table sugar, their vitamin and mineral content isn't significantly different from that of sugar.
sugar alcohols aren't considered  noncaloric or non-nutritive sweeteners because they contain calories.
just what are all these artificial sweeteners and sugar substitutes?
stevia also is available as a dietary supplement.
in some cases, the fda declares a substance "generally recognized as  safe" (gras).
and some sweeteners, such as cyclamate, are not approved in the united states but are approved for use in other countries.
artificial sweeteners are widely used in processed products, including tabletop sweeteners, baked goods, soft drinks, powdered drink mixes, candy, puddings, canned foods, jams and jellies, dairy products, and scores of other foods and beverages.
as with artificial sweeteners, the fda regulates the use of sugar alcohols.
this is the maximum amount considered safe to consume each day over the course of your lifetime.
natural sweeteners are sugar substitutes that are often promoted as healthier options than processed table sugar or other sugar substitutes.
the fda has also established an acceptable daily intake (adi) for each artificial sweetener.
some can even be used  in baking or cooking.
some sugar substitutes, such as aspartame, are promoted because they add virtually no calories to your diet.
these gras substances, including highly refined stevia preparations, are deemed by qualified professionals based on scientific data as being safe for their intended use, or they have such a lengthy history of common use in food that they're considered generally safe and don't require fda approval before sale.
also, be aware that honey can contain small amounts of bacterial spores that can produce botulism toxin.
unlike sugar, artificial sweeteners  don't contribute to tooth decay.
you may need to  experiment with artificial sweeteners to find one or a combination that you  enjoy most.
critics of artificial sweeteners say that they cause a variety of health  problems, including cancer.
possible health benefits of artificial sweeteners weight control.
sugar alcohols typically are labeled as "generally recognized as safe" (gras) and don't require fda approval before sale.
the topic of sugar substitutes can be complex and confusing.
one of the most appealing aspects of  artificial sweeteners is that they are non-nutritive — they have  virtually no calories.
in contrast, each gram of regular table sugar contains 4  calories.
newer sugar substitutes, including stevia and agave nectar, claim to be lower calorie, tastier and healthier options.
any use of this site constitutes your agreement to these terms and conditions of use.
the popularity of artificial sweeteners and other sugar substitutes is on the  rise as manufacturers and consumers seek lower calorie alternatives to regular  white sugar without sacrificing sweetness.
in addition, you need only a fraction compared with the amount of regular sugar you would normally use for sweetness.
uses for artificial sweeteners artificial sweeteners are attractive alternatives to sugar because they add virtually no calories to your diet.
for perspective, consider that  one 12-ounce can of a sweetened cola contains 8 teaspoons of added sugar, or  about 130 calories.
sometimes sugar substitutes are categorized by whether or not they contain calories.
newer sugar  substitutes, including stevia and agave nectar, claim to be lower calorie,  tastier and healthier options.
if you eat too many sugar-free foods, you can still gain weight if they have other ingredients that contain calories.
artificial sweeteners are just one  type of sugar substitute.
that's largely because of studies dating to the 1970s that linked saccharin to bladder cancer in laboratory rats.
the popularity of artificial sweeteners and other sugar substitutes is on the rise as manufacturers and consumers seek lower calorie alternatives to regular white sugar without sacrificing sweetness.
sugar substitutes are loosely considered any sweetener that you use instead of regular table sugar (sucrose).
today, artificial sweeteners and other sugar substitutes are found in a  variety of food and beverages marketed as "sugar-free" or  "diet," including soft drinks, chewing gum, jellies, baked goods,  candy, fruit juice and ice cream.
they are sometimes known as added sugars because they're added to foods during processing.
novel  sweeteners, such as stevia, are hard to fit into one particular category  because of what they're made from and how they're made.
choose a natural sweetener based on how it tastes and its uses, rather than on its health claims.
they don't contain ethanol, which is found in alcoholic beverages.
they  must be reviewed and approved by the fda before being made available for sale.
as a result of  the newer studies, the warning label for saccharin was dropped.
"mayo," "mayo clinic," "mayoclinic.com," "embodyhealth," "enhance your life," and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research.
but according to the national cancer institute and other health agencies, there's no sound scientific evidence that any of the artificial sweeteners approved for use in the united states cause cancer or other serious health problems.
tagatose is a low-carbohydrate sweetener similar to fructose that occurs naturally but is also manufactured from lactose in dairy products.
" possible health benefits of sugar alcohols possible health concerns with sugar alcohols
when choosing sugar substitutes, it pays to be a savvy consumer.
terms and conditions of use policy (updated aug. 2, 2011)
understanding artificial sweeteners and other sugar substitutes sugar substitutes are loosely considered any sweetener that you use  instead of regular table sugar (sucrose).
because of that, honey shouldn't be given to babies less than 1 year old.
a teaspoon of sugar is about 4 grams.
sugar alcohols aren't considered noncaloric or non-nutritive sweeteners because they contain calories.
these gras substances, including highly refined stevia  preparations, are deemed by qualified professionals based on scientific data as  being safe for their intended use, or they have such a lengthy history of  common use in food that they're considered generally safe and don't require fda  approval before sale.
they must be reviewed and approved by the fda before being made available for sale.
uses for sugar alcohols sugar alcohols generally aren't used when you prepare food at home.
© 1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research.
there are few health concerns associated with sugar alcohols.
check the food label to help see if a product contains sugar alcohols.
our biweekly topic-specific e-newsletters also include blogs, questions and answers with mayo clinic experts, and other useful information that will help you manage your health.
because of  those studies, saccharin once carried a warning label that it may be hazardous  to your health.
privacy policy (updated aug. 2, 2011)
new — mayo clinic healthy heart for life!
unlike sugar, artificial sweeteners generally  don't raise blood sugar levels because they are not carbohydrates.
on the other hand, some research has  suggested that consuming artificial sweeteners may be associated with increased  weight, but the cause is not yet known.
artificial sweeteners are also known as intense sweeteners because they are many times sweeter than regular sugar.
adis are intended to be about 100  times less than the smallest amount that might cause health concerns.
but because  of concerns about how sugar substitutes are labeled and categorized, always  check with your doctor or dietitian about using any sugar substitutes if you  have diabetes.
one problem is that the terminology regarding sugar substitutes is often open to interpretation.
possible health concerns with natural sweeteners so-called natural sweeteners are generally safe.
just because a food is marketed as sugar-free doesn't mean it's free of calories.
one problem  is that the terminology regarding sugar substitutes is often open to  interpretation.
they also help food stay moist, prevent browning when heated, and add a cooling sensation to products.
in addition, you need only a fraction compared with the amount of  regular sugar you would normally use for sweetness.
we do not share your e-mail address sign up view the health heart book artificial sweeteners: understanding these and other sugar substitutes whether your goal is cutting calories or eating healthier, options for  sugar substitutes abound.
for instance, some manufacturers call their sweeteners  "natural" even though they're processed or refined, as is the case  with stevia preparations.
foods containing tagatose can't be labeled as "sugar-free."
sugar alcohols are used in a broad range of products, including chocolate, candy, frozen desserts, chewing gum, toothpaste, mouthwash, baked goods and fruit spreads.
by mayo clinic staff if you're trying to reduce the sugar and calories in your diet, you may be  turning to artificial sweeteners or other sugar substitutes.
sugar alcohols and novel sweeteners sugar alcohols (polyols) are carbohydrates that occur naturally in certain  fruits and vegetables, but they also can be manufactured.
because of those studies, saccharin once carried a warning label that it may be hazardous to your health.
and consuming too much added sugar, even natural sweeteners, can lead to health problems such as tooth decay, poor nutrition, weight gain and increased triglycerides.
share on: clicking "send" signifies that you have read and agree to our privacy policy.
and remember that processed foods, which often contain sugar substitutes, generally don't offer the same health benefits as do whole foods, such as fruits and vegetables.
in addition, other sugar substitutes are  being touted as healthier sweeteners than regular sugar, even if they don't  have fewer calories, such as honey and agave nectar.
recipes, tools and other helpful information
check the  food label to see if a product contains artificial sweeteners.
they're categorized by the fda as gras substances.
trehalose is found naturally in mushrooms.
this single copy is for your personal, noncommercial use only.
about our newsletters housecall, our weekly general-interest e-newsletter, keeps you up to date on a wide variety of health topics with timely, reliable, practical information, recipes, blogs, questions and answers with mayo clinic experts and more.
© 1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research (mfmer).
if you're trying to reduce the sugar and calories in your diet, you may be turning to artificial sweeteners or other sugar substitutes.
adis are intended to be about 100 times less than the smallest amount that might cause health concerns.
novel sweeteners are combinations of various types of sweeteners.
we comply with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information:verify here.
get informed and look beyond the hype.
despite their name, sugar alcohols aren't alcoholic.
artificial sweeteners are just one type of sugar substitute.
rather, they are found in many processed foods and other products, usually replacing sugar on an equal basis.
artificial sweeteners currently approved by the food and drug administration (fda) are: fda approval is being sought for other artificial sweeteners.
as with artificial sweeteners, the fda regulates sugar alcohols as food additives.
artificial sweeteners are also popular for home use.
product labels may carry a warning about this potential laxative effect.
artificial sweeteners: understanding these and other sugar substitutesguidelines for sites linking to mayoclinic.com check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from mayo clinic.
when eaten in large amounts, usually more than 50 grams but sometimes as little as 10 grams, sugar alcohols can have a laxative effect, causing bloating, intestinal gas and diarrhea.
certain recipes may need modification, though, because  artificial sweeteners provide no bulk or volume, as does sugar.
they don't  contain ethanol, which is found in alcoholic beverages.
and numerous research studies confirm that artificial sweeteners are  generally safe in limited quantities, even for pregnant women.
they're not  considered intense sweeteners, because they aren't sweeter than sugar —  in fact, some are less sweet than sugar.
understand their pros and cons to make an informed  choice.
critics of artificial sweeteners say that they cause a variety of health problems, including cancer.
regardless of what they're called or how they're classified, sugar  substitutes aren't magic bullets for weight loss.
· order reprints of this article now.
and numerous research studies confirm that artificial sweeteners are generally safe in limited quantities, even for pregnant women.
aspartame (equal, nutrasweet) saccharin (sugartwin, sweet'n low) sucralose (splenda) fda approval is being sought for other artificial sweeteners.
when added to foods, sugar alcohols add sweetness, bulk and texture.
that's largely because of studies dating to the  1970s that linked saccharin to bladder cancer in laboratory rats.
in some cases, the fda declares a substance "generally recognized as safe" (gras).
check the food label to see if a product contains artificial sweeteners.
but even these so-called natural sweeteners often undergo processing and refining, including agave nectar.
possible health benefits of artificial sweeteners possible health concerns with artificial sweeteners artificial sweeteners have been the subject of intense scrutiny for decades.
today, artificial sweeteners and other sugar substitutes are found in a variety of food and beverages marketed as "sugar-free" or "diet," including soft drinks, chewing gum, jellies, baked goods, candy, fruit juice and ice cream.
as a result of the newer studies, the warning label for saccharin was dropped.
but  they're lower in calories than is regular sugar, making them an attractive  alternative.
some sugar substitutes, such as aspartame, are  promoted because they add virtually no calories to your diet.
you may need to experiment with artificial sweeteners to find one or a combination that you enjoy most.
regardless of what they're called or how they're classified, sugar substitutes aren't magic bullets for weight loss.
but there's no health advantage to consuming added sugar of any type.
sometimes sugar substitutes are categorized by whether or not they contain  calories.
and  what's their role in your diet?
they're not considered intense sweeteners, because they aren't sweeter than sugar — in fact, some are less sweet than sugar.
food labels may list the specific name, such as xylitol, or simply use the general term "sugar alcohol.
this is the maximum amount considered safe to consume  each day over the course of your lifetime.
but according to the national cancer institute and other health agencies,  there's no sound scientific evidence that any of the artificial sweeteners  approved for use in the united states cause cancer or other serious health  problems.
rather, only certain highly refined stevia preparations can be used in food products.
tagatose and trehalose are considered novel sweeteners because of their chemical structure.
some can even be used in baking or cooking.
artificial sweeteners are  widely used in processed products, including tabletop sweeteners, baked goods,  soft drinks, powdered drink mixes, candy, puddings, canned foods, jams and  jellies, dairy products, and scores of other foods and beverages.
approved sugar alcohols and novel sweeteners include: note that the fda has not approved the use of whole-leaf stevia or crude stevia extracts for use as a sweetener.
legal conditions and terms of use applicable to all users of this site.
check the labels on artificial sweeteners for appropriate home use.
subscribe to receive the latest updates on health topics.