for more  information on this site, please read ourprivacy policy and terms of service.
it contains the same calories as white  sugar, but it's considerably sweeter -- so you don't need to use as much.
it contains more antioxidants than all other natural sweeteners, and it also contains a small amount of iron, says sandon.
white sugar it may not be as trendy as other natural sweeteners, but white sugar  "holds up better than the others in high heat," says sandon.
but it isn't any healthier than the white stuff.
copyright © 2011 studio one networks.
raw sugar raw sugar comes  from sugar cane, just like white sugar, but it's less refined, so it's coarser  in texture and has a golden color (from the molasses it retains).
if a  recipe calls for 1 cup of sugar, you'd use only 1/3 cup of agave, says  registered dietitian angela ginn, a baltimore-based spokeswoman for the  american dietetic association.
"you can use it for baking, but it's not very sweet and it may make a  cake more dense," says ginn.
stevia this sweetener is derived from  the leaves of the stevia plant and contains almost no calories -- yet it can be  used cup-for-cup as a replacement for sugar, says ginn.
roasted sweet potatoes and summer vegetables
"you can use it for baking, but it's not very sweet and it may make a cake more dense," says ginn.
molasses molasses is derived from sugar cane or sugar beets.
stacey colino has written for the washington post health section and many national magazines, including newsweek, real simple, woman's day, self, marie claire, cosmopolitan, glamour, parenting, sports illustratedand ladies' home journal.
so there you have it: the whole sugary story so you can make wiser choices to satisfy your sweet tooth.
the surprising health benefits of sex eat fiber, feel better natural sweeteners: any better than white sugar?
should you try a gluten-free diet?
well agave syrup, stevia, honey and other natural sweeteners are all the rage  these days, as more people worry that white sugar and high-fructose corn syrup  are making them gain weight and increasing their risk for type 2 diabetes.
often used in tea and other beverages or as a topping on baked goods, raw sugar can be sweeter than white sugar --
natural sweeteners: any better than white sugar?
maple syrup genuine maple syrup is very sweet and has a slightly woodsy flavor, says ginn,  "so a little goes a long way."
besides its typical use on pancakes, waffles or french toast, maple syrup  also works as a glaze on root vegetables, like sweet potatoes, acorn or  butternut squash, turnips and carrots.
and most sweeteners contain similar  amounts of calories: approximately 16 per teaspoon.
but different sweeteners do have different properties when it comes to  cooking and health.
but "because it has a higher percentage of fructose  than what's in high-fructose corn syrup, it may raise triglyceride levels in  your blood, according to studies done at ut southwestern," warns sandon.
"and it's great for mixing in yogurt, drizzling on chicken or using  in salad dressings."
but it isn't  any healthier than the white stuff.
appetizers salads seafood  poultry meat pasta side dishes breads vegetarian dessert breakfast holiday  sandwiches soup submit one!
besides its typical use on pancakes, waffles or french toast, maple syrup also works as a glaze on root vegetables, like sweet potatoes, acorn or butternut squash, turnips and carrots.
so you'll need less to achieve the desired sweetness, says ginn.
it also  "gives a better texture to baked goods because of how it absorbs water and  adds volume to whatever you're preparing."
raw sugar raw sugar comes from sugar cane, just like white sugar, but it's less refined, so it's coarser in texture and has a golden color (from the molasses it retains).
it contains more  antioxidants than all other natural sweeteners, and it also contains a small  amount of iron, says sandon.
brown sugar made from molasses and white sugar,  light brown sugar is best for baking (cakes, cookies, pies and sweet breads) or  sprinkling on oatmeal.
but  are natural sweeteners really any better than plain baking sugar?
stacey colino has written for the washington post health section and many national  magazines, including newsweek, real simple, woman's day, self, marie  claire, cosmopolitan, glamour, parenting, sports illustratedand ladies' home journal.
the surprising secret to happiness what’s upsetting your stomach?
but "because it has a higher percentage of fructose than what's in high-fructose corn syrup, it may raise triglyceride levels in your blood, according to studies done at ut southwestern," warns sandon.
and most sweeteners contain similar amounts of calories: approximately 16 per teaspoon.
"honey is ideal for beverages because it's easily absorbed," says  ginn.
5 tips to bulldoze a bad mood
"honey is ideal for beverages because it's easily absorbed," says ginn.
"added sugar, no matter where it comes from, is added sugar -- and in excessive amounts, it could increase body fat," says registered dietitian lona sandon, an assistant professor of clinical nutrition at the university of texas southwestern medical center.
a reality check: for the most part, your body can't tell the difference between one type of sweetener and another.
the dark brown variety, in contrast, gives foods (like baked beans, stews  and gingerbread) a richer flavor, thanks to the extra molasses it contains,  says ginn.
"added sugar, no matter where it comes from, is added sugar -- and in  excessive amounts, it could increase body fat," says registered dietitian  lona sandon, an assistant professor of clinical nutrition at the university of  texas southwestern medical center.
when researchers at virginia tech compared the antioxidant content of various sweeteners, they found considerable variability: here's a guide to how sweeteners otherwise stack up, along with directions for best using each one: agave syrup agave syrup is a natural sweetener made from the sap of the agave plant.
so there you have it: the whole sugary story so you can make wiser choices  to satisfy your sweet tooth.
but different sweeteners do have different properties when it comes to cooking and health.
a reality check: for the most part, your body can't tell the difference  between one type of sweetener and another.
however, because of its consistency, it's "not as good for baking," she says.
the  information contained in or provided through this site section is intended for  general consumer understanding and education only and is not intended to be and  is not a substitute for professional advice.
updated: march  31, 2011 12:03 pm edt © hemera / thinkstock from live
so you'll need less to achieve the  desired sweetness, says ginn.
because it lends foods a rich, dark flavor as well as a touch of sweetness, it's a good choice for baking spice cakes, gingerbread or ginger snaps.
it also "gives a better texture to baked goods because of how it absorbs water and adds volume to whatever you're preparing."
also, agave syrup is low on the glycemic index, meaning it doesn't raise  blood sugar quickly.
maple syrup genuine maple syrup is very sweet and has a slightly woodsy flavor, says ginn, "so a little goes a long way."
in addition  to antioxidants, honey also has some antibacterial properties.
also, agave syrup is low on the glycemic index, meaning it doesn't raise blood sugar quickly.
however, because of its consistency, it's "not as good for  baking," she says.
when researchers at virginia tech compared the antioxidant  content of various sweeteners, they found considerable variability: most antioxidants: dark and blackstrap molasses some antioxidants: maple syrup, brown sugar, honey minimal antioxidants: refined sugar, corn syrup, agave nectar
"no matter what your sweetener comes  from, you need to stick with it in moderation and not overdo it."
vitamins that keep your brain young eat this: foods that help heartburn
you can also sprinkle it in your coffee or on  berries or oatmeal.
use of this site section and any  information contained on or provided through this site section is at your own  risk and any information contained on or provided through this site section is  provided on an "as is" basis without any representations or  warranties.
"no matter what your sweetener comes from, you need to stick with it in moderation and not overdo it."
you can also sprinkle it in your coffee or on berries or oatmeal.
the dark brown variety, in contrast, gives foods (like baked beans, stews and gingerbread) a richer flavor, thanks to the extra molasses it contains, says ginn.
because it lends foods a rich, dark flavor as well as a touch of sweetness,  it's a good choice for baking spice cakes, gingerbread or ginger snaps.
well agave syrup, stevia, honey and other natural sweeteners are all the rage these days, as more people worry that white sugar and high-fructose corn syrup are making them gain weight and increasing their risk for type 2 diabetes.
but are natural sweeteners really any better than plain baking sugar?
stevia this sweetener is derived from the leaves of the stevia plant and contains almost no calories -- yet it can be used cup-for-cup as a replacement for sugar, says ginn.
white sugar it may not be as trendy as other natural sweeteners, but white sugar "holds up better than the others in high heat," says sandon.
here's a guide to how sweeteners otherwise stack up, along with directions  for best using each one: agave syrup agave syrup is a natural sweetener  made from the sap of the agave plant.
by stacey colino from live
all content ©  copyright 2000 - 2012 worldnow and kxlt.
"and it's great for mixing in yogurt, drizzling on chicken or using in salad dressings."
if a recipe calls for 1 cup of sugar, you'd use only 1/3 cup of agave, says registered dietitian angela ginn, a baltimore-based spokeswoman for the american dietetic association.
it contains the same calories as white sugar, but it's considerably sweeter -- so you don't need to use as much.
often used in tea and other beverages or as a topping on baked goods, raw  sugar can be sweeter than white sugar --
by stacey colino from live
brown sugar made from molasses and white sugar, light brown sugar is best for baking (cakes, cookies, pies and sweet breads) or sprinkling on oatmeal.
in addition to antioxidants, honey also has some antibacterial properties.