at our practice, we encourage our patients to build their snacks and meals from whole food, which means food that has not been processed and manipulated.
(a  more recent study also shows that splenda significantly decreases beneficial  gut flora.)
over the course of 15 years, those same side effects increasingly appeared in humans.
and this includes sugar.
again,  it’s the sheer quantity not the substance itself that causes concern.
the wave is coming because “low–sugar” or “sugar–free” is the latest fad — a welcome trend, given the health hazards of all the sugar in the average diet.
as shipping and trade routes grew, sugar became widely available.
i think it’s great to try and lose unwanted weight, but i question whether these packaged items should be marketed as healthy choices.
artificial sweeteners are body toxins.
in our view,  determining that something is safe (or not) in laboratory rats isn’t a  definitive answer, as we’ve seen countless examples of foods and drugs  that have proved dangerous to humans that were first found to be safe in  laboratory rats, both in short- and long-term studies.
enter the modern era with its advanced food-processing techniques and  competitive food companies, and presto!
these authorities say that splenda has more in common with ddt than  with food.
then there’s the fact that  splenda, as a product, consists of more than just sucralose—it’s  made with dextrose, and sometimes also with maltodextrin,neither of  which were included in the original studies and trials of sucralose.
these authorities say that splenda has more in common with ddt than with food.
we think that our regulatory system doesn’t do a  good enough job ensuring our long-term safety.
foods with these additives are marketed to women as low-fat, low-sugar, and low-calorie.
accept it and give your body extra support elsewhere.
if you've had it with traditional methods that don't work, you can find real, lasting weight loss with our combination approach.
but unlike many holistic practitioners, i do think artificial sweeteners can  serve a purpose for some women.
artificial sweeteners are chemicals, not food!
scientists report that eating chocolate initiates a brain response similar to  falling in love.
we unwittingly reprogram our biochemistry to perpetuate these cravings.
sugar can also be disguised as evaporated cane juice, cane sugar, beet sugar, glucose, sucrose, maltose, maltodextrin, dextrose, sorbitol, fructose, corn sugar, fruit juice concentrate, barley malt, caramel, and carob syrup.
but no one can say to what degree  consuming splenda affects the rest of us, and there are no long-term studies in  humans with large numbers of subjects to say one way or the other if it’s  safe foreveryone.
women tend to  notice this more during perimenopause, when excess sugar and other simple  carbohydrates triggersymptoms of hormonal imbalance.
even in the short term, too much sugar can trigger headaches, tooth decay, and indigestion.
sweet’n low®,  nutrasweet®, etc. — and according to the claims, that this splenda is  the perfect sugar substitute: as sweet as sugar, but no calories; as sweet as  sugar, but no surge in insulin; as sweet as sugar, but no side effects or  long-term health damage.
your fatigue  tells you to have that extra cup of coffee or high–carb snack at  mid-morning and again in the afternoon.
i don’t argue with this recommendation, but i  encourage you to find out as much as you can about any chemical before you  ingest it.
but savor  it slowly like a rare treat you may not have again for a while.
aside from splenda, the most popular artificial sweeteners are aspartame (and its cousin, neotame) and saccharin.
refined sugar is everywhere and in  everything.
it’s been around a relatively long time and seems to cause fewer problems than aspartame.
sales in granulated sugar have dropped four percent in the past six months.
healthy  weight» sugar substitutes and splenda weight loss sugar substitutes and the potential danger of splenda by marcelle pick, ob/gyn np tweet few of us are really aware of how many new splenda® products there are  in the supermarkets.
and, to help balance out the accompanying insulin surge, eat a piece of protein with it.
scientists are calling splenda a mild mutagen, based on how much is absorbed.
people have been using artificial sweeteners for decades.
in one study, people who used artificial sweeteners ate up to  three times the amount of calories as the control group.
in my practice i’ve seen that many patients are better able to break  their addiction to sugar and maintain weight loss with the help of sugar  substitutes.
once your brain is allowed to fully register the experience, you may find you’re sated after a few bites.
even in the short term, too much sugar can trigger headaches, tooth decay, and  indigestion.
so if you consume them, do so  prudently.
it’s  likely you won’t want dessert after all!
remember these healthy habits: take a daily multivitamin to support your body’s nutritional needs.
a sugar craving  (which is really a craving for an energy and serotonin surge) becomes a habit.
again, it’s the sheer quantity not the substance itself that causes concern.
you may find you don’t need anything sweeter!
while some industry experts claim the molecule is similar to table salt or sugar, other independent researchers say it has more in common with pesticides.
work on healthy nutrition and you’ll find your cravings  will disappear.
aspartame and saccharin: are they safer than splenda?
what happens to our metabolism, on all that sugar?
keep a bowl of fresh ripe fruit nearby to snack on, to  relieve your sugar cravings.
but of the hundreds of new diet foods that will soon appear, most will use splenda as a sugar substitute.
that’s why most  diet sodas are loaded with caffeine — so you’ll still feel a jolt.
i think any amount of formaldehyde in your brain  is too much.
(see our article on endocrine disruptors for more  information on toxins and persistent organic pollutants.)
the fda  admits this is true, but claims the amount is low enough in most that it  shouldn’t raise concern.
the fda chose not to take these findings into account when it approved aspartame for public use.
looking for a different kind of plan for finding your healthy weight?
most of the testing is funded by the food industry, which has a vested interest in the outcome.
they have no calories because they don’t nourish your body in anyway — they’re toxins your body has to clear, or, depending on how well you detoxify, store.
eliminating sugar entirely from your diet for a couple of weeks, then  reintroducing it for a day to see how you feel.
(for more on this process,  see our article on insulin resistance.)
for women trying to stay healthy, artificial sweeteners can seem like  the best of both worlds — sugar without calories.
better-tasting nutrasweet took its place in almost every  diet soda, but saccharin is still an ingredient in some prepared foods, gum,  and over-the-counter medicines.
but even if your brain is distracted momentarily, soon enough it wants the energy boost you promised it — and you find yourself craving carbohydrates.
while most polyalcohol sugars have no side effects, sorbitol is a natural laxative and can cause diarrhea, irritable bowel syndrome, bloating and flatulence.
so  let’s make sure you are.
but no one can say to what degree consuming splenda affects the rest of us, and there are no long-term studies in humans with large numbers of subjects to say one way or the other if it’s safe foreveryone.
remember those carcinogen warnings on the side of products that contained saccharin?
they have half the calories of sugar and are not digested by the small intestine.
while most polyalcohol sugars have no side effects, sorbitol is a natural  laxative and can cause diarrhea, irritable bowel syndrome, bloating and  flatulence.
another big difference between prehistoric times and now is that sugar back then came solely from complex natural sources that had other nutritional qualities, such as fruit, honey, bark, and leaves.
another big difference between prehistoric times and now is that sugar  back then came solely from complex natural sources that had other nutritional  qualities, such as fruit, honey, bark, and leaves.
sucralose has been implicated as a possible migraine trigger, for  example.
and we are especially sensitive to the  women who can benefit from using artificial sweeteners as a bridge to a better  life with healthier nutrition.
if you are craving something sweet, don’t feel guilty.
in certain cases, i think moderate use of artificial sweeteners is okay  — as long as you feel well.
identify what's causing your body's resistance to weight loss with our  uniqueprofile.
for many years, diabetics have used products sweetened with polyalcohol sugars like sorbitol, xylitol, malitol, and mannitol.
foods with these additives are  marketed to women as low-fat, low-sugar, and low-calorie.
sugar is a food processor’s fantasy: it’s cheap, it adds bulk and texture, and it makes consumers prefer their product over a less-sweet alternative.
stevia and sorbitol — natural alternatives to artificial sweeteners other countries and diabetics have both taught us a lot about controlling insulin naturally.
excess sugar consumption also upsets the balance of intestinal flora in your digestive tract and can cause symptoms of intestinal distress such as bloating, cramping, and gas.
new studies in accelerated aging link elevated sugar intake with a process called glycosylation: proteins in our bodies morph into age’s, or advanced glycosylation end-products, a kind of metabolic debris that collects in our organ, joint, and skin tissues.
when you look at the huge increase in sugar in our diets this past century — particularly in processed foods — you see that it marches in step with the epidemic increase in metabolic diseases.
the evolution of sugar over thousands of years our bodies used naturally sweet food safely and efficiently in this way.
in my practice i’ve seen that many patients are better able to break their addiction to sugar and maintain weight loss with the help of sugar substitutes.
it is true that the splenda molecule is comprised of  sucrose (sugar) — except that three of thehydroxyl groups in the  molecule have been replaced by threechlorine atoms.
if it’s a natural food, why is sugar so hard to digest?
(see our article on endocrine disruptors for more information on toxins and persistent organic pollutants.)
if you still want a piece of chocolate or pie, go ahead!
new  refining technology put granulated white sugar on every table, replacing the  more nutritionally complex honey, molasses, barley and maple sugars.
the set point can you speed up your metabolism to lose weight?
there are  no long-term studies of the side effects of splenda in humans.
but even if your brain is distracted momentarily, soon enough it wants the  energy boost you promised it — and you find yourself craving  carbohydrates.
your fatigue tells you to have that extra cup of coffee or high–carb snack at mid-morning and again in the afternoon.
check with your healthcare practitioner and try the elimination diet,
they are never a good idea for  pregnant women, children or teenagers — despite the reduced sugar content  — because of possible irreversible cell damage.
possible side effects of aspartame include  headaches, migraines, panic attacks, dizziness, irritability, nausea,  intestinal discomfort, skin rash, and nervousness.
if we really listened to our bodies, we probably wouldn’t consume so  much sugar.
most of the testing is funded  by the food industry, which has a vested interest in the outcome.
second, none of the trials that were done was very large — the largest was 128 people studied for three months, making us wonder,what happens when you’ve used sucralose for a year, or two, or ten?
in one study, people who used artificial sweeteners ate up to three times the amount of calories as the control group.
sugar became its own  food group — an empty calorie, devoid of protein, fat, or fiber —  but still relatively rare.
the fda has  approved its use as a food supplement, but not as a food additive due to a lack  of studies.
and now, are our children the next trial group?
this can lead  to misleading claims on both sides.
sucralose has been implicated as a possible migraine trigger, for example.
stevia has been enormously popular in japan, where it has been in  use for more than 20 years, now rivaling equal and sweet’n low.
moreover, sugar floods us with pleasure by stimulating the release of the neurotransmitter serotonin, and probably other mood-elevating substances.
even if you don’t have a  reaction or sensitivity to sugar, continue to use refined sugar rarely, if  ever.
but one thing is certain: some of the chemicals that comprise artificial sweeteners are known hazards — the degree to which you experience side effects just depends on your individual biochemistry.
the question is, how do you know how much artificial sweeteners your  individual body can tolerate?
in our view, determining that something is safe (or not) in laboratory rats isn’t a definitive answer, as we’ve seen countless examples of foods and drugs that have proved dangerous to humans that were first found to be safe in laboratory rats, both in short- and long-term studies.
good nutrition needs to  take more into account than calories and fat content — especially when it  comes to how many artificial sweeteners we’re eating and what we’re  mixing them with.
our  program helps you pinpoint the physiological reasons that your body is  resistant to losing weight and shows you how to create the conditions for real,  lasting weight loss.
if you listen to your body, it may surprise you with a craving for eggs, not a diet soda.
so if you consume them, do so prudently.
too much sugar can deplete levels of serotonin, the neurotransmitter whose deficiency is linked to depression.
sugar became its own food group — an empty calorie, devoid of protein, fat, or fiber — but still relatively rare.
try a piece of fruit first — you may find your craving diminishes.
products featuring splenda are perceived as “natural” because  even the fda’s press release about sucralose parrots the claim that  “it is made from sugar” — an assertion disputed by the sugar  association, which is suing splenda’s manufacturer, mcneil nutritionals.
remember that wine and alcohol are sugar.
most of the time,  uncontrollable or patterned cravings stem from a malfunctioning metabolism or  low serotonin.
that being said, some practitioners think saccharin in moderation is the  best choice if you must have an artificially sweetened beverage or food  product.
the enzymes in your mouth begin a cascade that primes your cell receptors for an insulin surge, and when it doesn’t arrive your brain feels cheated.
they have half the calories of sugar and are not  digested by the small intestine.
perhaps you always crave sugar in the mornings because you associate family, home, and security with the pancake breakfasts your mother used to make.
when you look at the huge increase in sugar in our diets this past century  — particularly in processed foods — you see that it marches in step  with the epidemic increase in metabolic diseases.
while some industry experts claim the molecule is similar to table salt or  sugar, other independent researchers say it has more in common with pesticides.
until an independent, unbiased research group conducts long-term studies on humans (six months is hardly long-term!)
the truth about cholesterol and fat sugar substitutes and the danger of splenda
once your brain  is allowed to fully register the experience, you may find you’re sated  after a few bites.
what’s more, this process is exacerbated by stress — because  that’s when your body needs immediate energy and serotonin.
finding comfort in the right places after taking a closer look at what you eat, it may also be useful for you to examine the role sweet food plays in your life.
if you've had it with traditional methods that don't work,  you can find real, lasting weight loss with our combination approach.
aside from splenda, the most popular artificial sweeteners are aspartame  (and its cousin, neotame) and saccharin.
it’s been linked with ms, lupus, fibromyalgia and other central nervous disorders.
it’s been around a relatively long time and seems to cause fewer  problems than aspartame.
recent studies in europe show that aspartame use can  result in an accumulation of formaldehyde in the brain, which can damage your  central nervous system and immune system and cause genetic trauma.
even now when we eat sweet foods, special taste buds trigger enzymes that prime our brain to anticipate this extra boost.
once you start tracking your response to artificial sweeteners, it may surprise you.
enter the modern era with its advanced food-processing techniques and competitive food companies, and presto!
focus more on what you’d like to cook and eat than what you shouldn’t.
but of the hundreds of  new diet foods that will soon appear, most will use splenda as a sugar  substitute.
there are no long-term studies of the side effects of splenda in humans.
it is naturally low in carbohydrates.
sales in granulated sugar have dropped four percent in the past six  months.
remember, we have sweet taste  buds for a reason.
i think any amount of formaldehyde in your brain is too much.
with all the new splenda products on our shelves, it  looks as if we are now in the process of another grand public experiment  — without our permission.
call  1-800-233-5104
long-term sugar intolerance leads to type 2 diabetes and other complications like obesity and inflammation.
until an independent, unbiased research  group conducts long-term studies on humans (six months is hardly long-term!),  how can we be certain?
if you already suffer from weight gain, diabetes, inflammation, chronic  pain, migraines, headaches, or depression, you may have sugar intolerance.
it’s metabolized directly  into blood sugar, or glucose, which fuels our brain and muscles.
long-term sugar intolerance leads to type 2 diabetes and other  complications like obesity and inflammation.
and i am especially concerned about its use for children, which i recommend you avoid.
and we are especially sensitive to the women who can benefit from using artificial sweeteners as a bridge to a better life with healthier nutrition.
more importantly, you can do a lot to support your body in other ways to  reduce your dependency on sugar and sugar substitutes — something i  encourage every woman to do.
the majority of people  don’t absorb a significant amount of splenda in their small intestine  — about 15% by some accounts.
i think  it’s great to try and lose unwanted weight, but i question whether these  packaged items should be marketed as healthy choices.
there’s an equally strong biological urge here that’s hard-wired.
according to the us  department of agriculture, the average american is supplied with 140 pounds of  caloric sweeteners per year.
and if you do, you’ll appreciate it more.
but again, this is  individual.
in my experience, that path only leads back to  the same place — more pain, and eventually, sickness.
we’re concerned about the bigger picture, too — the dependence on sweets in the american diet to make us feel good — whether those sweets are satisfied by sugar or artificial sweeteners like splenda.
these show up at one end of the spectrum — in the people who have an allergy or sensitivity to the sucralose molecule.
aspartame should be avoided by most women, but particularly in those with neuropsychiatric concerns.
we’ve known about stevia in the us since 1918, but pressure from the  sugar import trade blocked its use as a commodity.
i don’t argue with this recommendation, but i encourage you to find out as much as you can about any chemical before you ingest it.
we want you to be fully  informed about the dangers of splenda (which isn’t what food marketers  want!)
diet programs like weight watchers sell low-calorie foods that trade real nutrients for artificial ingredients, including sugar substitutes.
here are two other reasons for our concern: first, in the eleven years after splenda was put on the market, no independent studies of sucralose lasting more than six months have been done in humans.
nothing is more discouraging than not being able to lose weight no matter how hard you try.
what’s more, this process is exacerbated by stress — because that’s when your body needs immediate energy and serotonin.
and we may not know the health implications for  decades.
the purer the source, the faster it gets into the bloodstream, bypassing much of the digestive process.
new refining technology put granulated white sugar on every table, replacing the more nutritionally complex honey, molasses, barley and maple sugars.
your food should resemble its source as closely as possible (e.g., fresh fish,  not fish sticks).
if you already suffer from weight gain, diabetes, inflammation, chronic pain, migraines, headaches, or depression, you may have sugar intolerance.
the purer the  source, the faster it gets into the bloodstream, bypassing much of the  digestive process.
once your body returns to its natural state of  balance, you may find that you can toss out those artificial sweeteners and put  sugar in its proper place: where you have control over it and not vice versa.
excess sugar consumption also upsets the balance of  intestinal flora in  your digestive tract and can cause symptoms of intestinal distress such as  bloating, cramping, and gas.
no  studies have been done on the safety of mixing artificial sweeteners, and who  wants to become a living, breathing test subject.
these show up  at one end of the spectrum — in the people who have an allergy or  sensitivity to the sucralose molecule.
, how can we be certain?
this is how sugar  addiction begins.
and so our brains have learned over time to equate the taste of  “sweet” with a rapid infusion of energy and pleasure — a good  thing when food was hard-won and life a battle to survive.
that’s why most diet sodas are loaded with caffeine — so you’ll still feel a jolt.
some researchers have linked aspartame with depression and manic episodes.
of course,  rats had been chosen for the testing specifically because they metabolize  sucralose more like humans than any other animal used for testing.
the irony is that your body tries to clear  unrecognizable substances by digesting them, so it’s not unlikely that  the healthier your gastrointestinal system is, the more you’ll absorb the  chlorinated molecules of splenda.
starting your day with a sugary or high-carb breakfast dooms you to a day of up-and-down blood sugar levels — which will drive you to eat too much of the wrong things all day long.
short-circuiting the insulin spike basically, artificial sweeteners confuse your brain.
this is how sugar addiction begins.
instead, sweeten sparingly with the more nutritionally complex natural  sugars such as honey, rice syrup, molasses, and maple syrup.
but our bodies simply  aren’t equipped to handle such large amounts of sugar on a daily basis.
these empty calories take the place of real nutrients — so while we eat and gain weight, we’re actually starving our cells.
better-tasting nutrasweet took its place in almost every diet soda, but saccharin is still an ingredient in some prepared foods, gum, and over-the-counter medicines.
in this case, artificial sweeteners may help short-circuit  the dependency.
for women who want to move through their cravings  for sugar without artificial chemicals, stevia is a great option.
try a piece of fruit first — you may find your craving  diminishes.
so now consumers get sugar everywhere, from simple carbohydrates (so-called white food) to pure granulated sugar, and in other forms like dextrose, fruit juice concentrate, maltodextrin, and high–fructose corn syrup.
and that has to do with the old question  — which is better, sugar or an artificial sweetener?
some react poorly, some don’t — the problem is, you never know until you’re already sick.
we often put  our bodies through the binge–crash cycle several times a day.
so, is splenda safe?
remember these healthy habits: take a daily multivitamin to support your body’s nutritional  needs.
many of our patients are amazed  at how much better they feel after breaking the sugar habit.
the premise offered next is that just because  something contains chlorine doesn’t guarantee that it’s toxic.
the  manufacturer’s own short-term studies showed that very high doses of  sucralose (far beyond what would be expected in an ordinary diet) caused  shrunken thymus glands, enlarged livers, and kidney disorders in rodents.
they no longer appear because industry testing showed that saccharin only caused bladder cancer in rats.
drinking more than one soda a day  raises your risk of serious weight gain by 80%.
so the reality is that we are the guinea pigs for splenda.
if you decide it’s worth the risks, then go ahead, but pay attention to your body and your cravings.
stevia can be used for anything you might use sugar in, including baking.
many of our patients are amazed at how much better they feel after breaking the sugar habit.
second, none of the  trials that were done was very large — the largest was 128 people studied  for three months, making us wonder,what happens when you’ve used  sucralose for a year, or two, or ten?
thanks to an agreement  between mcneil nutritionals (makers of splenda) and pto today, which provides  marketing and fund-raising aid to parents’ associations, your elementary  school’s next bake sale may be sponsored by splenda — complete with  baked goods made with the product.
and so our brains have learned over time to equate the taste of “sweet” with a rapid infusion of energy and pleasure — a good thing when food was hard-won and life a battle to survive.
the usda recommends an average of 10 teaspoons a day for a healthy adult (still too much for most women, in my book).
simple carbs and sugar fire up your insulin receptors and spark those sugar cravings.
so i encourage you to nourish yourself from the inside out, with healthy food, self-care, and healthy relationships.
we’ve been told that this artificial sweetener is  different from all the past failures —
it all comes down to the brain’s perception of calories,  which can get thrown off whenever artificial ingredients are substituted for  whole food.
you can buy stevia at most health food stores and over the web.
(xylitol can be  derived from birch tree pulp.)
eat protein, healthy fats and complex carbohydrates for breakfast.
according to thenew york times, by the end of this summer 11% of the food items on supermarket shelves will be labeled “reduced sugar” — most of those targeted at kids and their health-conscious moms.
they have no calories  because they don’t nourish your body in anyway — they’re  toxins your body has to clear, or, depending on how well you detoxify, store.
not in everyone, of course — but in  those who were vulnerable to the chemical structure of aspartame.
instead, sweeten sparingly with the more nutritionally complex natural sugars such as honey, rice syrup, molasses, and maple syrup.
these empty calories take the place of real nutrients — so while  we eat and gain weight, we’re actually starving our cells.
also, the  substitutes are hundreds of times sweeter than sugar, so you may use less of  them.
for this reason, we recommend the herb stevia (stevia rebaudiana)  over sorbitol as a natural sweetener to our patients.
aspartame should be avoided by most women, but particularly in those with  neuropsychiatric concerns.
stevia has been enormously popular in japan, where it has been in use for more than 20 years, now rivaling equal and sweet’n low.
this is probably because insulin is not involved.
splenda — the public health experiment “low–sugar” is the successor to the “low–carb” craze, even though they are essentially the same thing.
but again, this is individual.
in other words, the fda has tried to have it both ways — they accepted the manufacturer’s studies on rats because the manufacturer had shown that rats and humans metabolize the sweetener in similar ways, but shrugged off the safety concerns on the grounds that rats and humans are different.
if there are no other nutrients to sustain our blood sugar level, it crashes as quickly as it rises — and we crave another hit.
we’re concerned about the  bigger picture, too — the dependence on sweets in the american diet to  make us feel good — whether those sweets are satisfied by sugar or  artificial sweeteners like splenda.
if  there are no other nutrients to sustain our blood sugar level, it crashes as  quickly as it rises — and we crave another hit.
the premise offered next is that just because something contains chlorine doesn’t guarantee that it’s toxic.
that’s because the bonds holding the carbon and chlorine atoms together  are more characteristic of a chlorocarbon than a salt — and most  pesticides are chlorocarbons.
eating sugar shoots our blood sugar levels up and triggers a spike in the  hormone insulin, which is needed to prep our cells to absorb the sugar.
comment on this article: references & further  reading on splenda last modified date: 05/25/2011 principal author: marcelle pick, ob/gyn np weight loss resistance the myth of calories in, calories out emotional eating essential nutrition for healthy weight popular weight loss plans for women - what works?
what should you think about artificial sweeteners?
not in everyone, of course — but in those who were vulnerable to the chemical structure of aspartame.
with a balanced diet and a healthy metabolism, a  calorie–control mechanism kicks in after a few minutes to regulate the  desire for more food, including the satiety hormone leptin.
too much sugar can deplete levels of serotonin, the neurotransmitter whose  deficiency is linked to depression.
it may also contribute to male  infertility.
your food should resemble its source as closely as possible (e.g., fresh fish, not fish sticks).
the truth is we just don’t know yet.
evidence that there are side effects of splenda is accumulating little by little.
in my experience, that path only leads back to the same place — more pain, and eventually, sickness.
but in this case, the fda decided that because these studies  weren’t based on human test animals, they were not conclusive.
as food additives, artificial sweeteners are not subject to the same  gauntlet of fda safety trials as pharmaceuticals.
as our knowledge evolved, we  grew adept at refining pure sugar from its food source.
almost all of the independent research into aspartame found dangerous side effects in rodents.
once it gets to the gut, sucralose goes largely unrecognized in the body as food — that’s why it has no calories.
self-reported adverse reactions to splenda or sucralose collected by  the sucralose toxicity information center include skin rashes/flushing,  panic-like agitation, dizziness and numbness, diarrhea, swelling, muscle aches,  headaches, intestinal cramping, bladder issues, and stomach pain.
(xylitol can be derived from birch tree pulp.)
the fresher the fruit, the more succulent and satisfying it will be.
manufacturers are banking  on the fact that our bodies won’t absorb very much of these compounds at  any one time.
minimize or avoid products that have sugar, high-fructose corn  syrup or corn syrup near the top of their ingredient list.
what starts out initially as a survival tool quickly becomes a crutch if sugar is easy to procure.
known in south america as  the “sweet herb,” stevia has been used for over 400 years without  ill effect.
our love affair with sugar has enjoyed a slow and subtle evolution — with daily nudges from the food industry.
once it gets to the gut, sucralose goes largely unrecognized in the body  as food — that’s why it has no calories.
splenda — the public health experiment “low–sugar” is the successor to the  “low–carb” craze, even though they are essentially the same  thing.
there will always be those who have a sensitivity to a substance, but based on reports from other countries it appears to have little to no side effects.
usually we’ve had powerful emotional incentives set up in childhood — like getting a lollipop after a doctor’s visit — and most of us unconsciously associate sugar with love, pleasure, and reward.
aspartame, the main ingredient in equal and nutrasweet, is responsible for the most serious cases of poisoning, because the body actually digests it.
sugar is a food processor’s fantasy: it’s cheap, it adds bulk  and texture, and it makes consumers prefer their product over a less-sweet  alternative.
drinking more than one soda a day raises your risk of serious weight gain by 80%.
diet programs like weight watchers sell low-calorie foods that trade real  nutrients for artificial ingredients, including sugar substitutes.
simple carbs and sugar fire up your insulin receptors and spark those  sugar cravings.
(a more recent study also shows that splenda significantly decreases beneficial gut flora.)
what’s behind this trend?
in life there is bound to be some  bitterness — the secret is to restore enough balance to delight in the  sweet.
that’s 43 teaspoons for every man, woman and  child every day!
but in this case, the fda decided that because these studies weren’t based on human test animals, they were not conclusive.
here are two other reasons for our concern: first, in the eleven years  after splenda was put on the market, no independent studies of sucralose  lasting more than six months have been done in humans.
there’s an equally strong biological urge here that’s  hard-wired.
indulge yourself sometimes.
in this case, artificial sweeteners may help short-circuit the dependency.
it is true that the splenda molecule is comprised of sucrose (sugar) — except that three of thehydroxyl groups in the molecule have been replaced by threechlorine atoms.
and i am  especially concerned about its use for children, which i recommend you avoid.
we’re often made to feel that avoiding sugar is only matter of  willpower, but it’s more complicated than that.
thanks to an agreement between mcneil nutritionals (makers of splenda) and pto today, which provides marketing and fund-raising aid to parents’ associations, your elementary school’s next bake sale may be sponsored by splenda — complete with baked goods made with the product.
if this sounds familiar, it should: we went down the same path with aspartame, the main ingredient in equal and nutrasweet.
the biggest sources are the corn sugar and corn syrup found in beverages like juice drinks and soda.
but our bodies simply aren’t equipped to handle such large amounts of sugar on a daily basis.
that being said, some practitioners think saccharin in moderation is the best choice if you must have an artificially sweetened beverage or food product.
risk factors for bone health interpreting test results home » articles »
usually we’ve had powerful emotional incentives  set up in childhood — like getting a lollipop after a doctor’s  visit — and most of us unconsciously associate sugar with love, pleasure,  and reward.
refined sugar is everywhere and in everything.
and we may not know the health implications for decades.
our love affair with sugar has enjoyed a slow and subtle evolution  — with daily nudges from the food industry.
but with too much sugar, we eat and eat and can’t get satisfied.
living the sweet life with better nutrition
no studies have been done on the safety of mixing artificial sweeteners, and who wants to become a living, breathing test subject.
shop the perimeter of your grocery store — avoid  the processed foods in the center aisles.
think primitive and eat fruit that is in season.
as our knowledge evolved, we grew adept at refining pure sugar from its food source.
but with too much  sugar, we eat and eat and can’t get satisfied.
but what happens when we are ingesting a combination of artificial sweeteners like splenda dozens of times a week through many different “low–sugar” or “sugar–free” products?
so i urge you to be concerned about the potential dangers of splenda — as with any unnatural substance you put in your body.
(for more on this process, see our article on insulin resistance.)
sugar and insulin: the energy rush like pooh bear and the honey jar, sweet treats are the comfort food of  choice for most of us.
remember, we’re  still primitive at a cellular level.
(to get a better picture of what this looks like, see thisimage of a sucralose molecule.)
it’s 200–300 times sweeter than sugar, so just a small portion of stevia will sweeten even a strong cup of tea.
(to get a better  picture of what this looks like, see thisimage of a sucralose molecule.)
it’s 200–300 times sweeter than sugar, so just a small portion of  stevia will sweeten even a strong cup of tea.
what’s worse, low levels of serotonin actually trigger more sugar cravings.
looking for a different kind of plan for finding your healthy  weight?
and that is also true, but you and your family may prefer not to serve as test subjects for the latest post-market artificial sweetener experiment — however “unique.”
today stevia is slowly gaining steam as a sugar substitute, despite similar hurdles.
on the other side of the argument are responsible experts who say that splenda is unsafe — the latest in a succession of artificial sweeteners that claim at first to be healthy, only later to be proven to be full of side effects.
what starts out initially as a survival  tool quickly becomes a crutch if sugar is easy to procure.
manufacturers are banking on the fact that our bodies won’t absorb very much of these compounds at any one time.
shop the perimeter of your grocery store — avoid the processed foods in the center aisles.
but just as a pancake breakfast won’t satisfy your emotional  longings, fake sugar won’t feed your body’s needs — nor real  sugar, for that matter.
why else would we call our dear ones “honey,” “sugar,” and “sweetie”?
perhaps you always crave sugar  in the mornings because you associate family, home, and security with the  pancake breakfasts your mother used to make.
artificial sweeteners can be just as troublesome, with one exception: sugar addiction — those of us who simply cannot stop eating sugar once we start.
even if you don’t have a reaction or sensitivity to sugar, continue to use refined sugar rarely, if ever.
but if you can’t live without your diet drink, don’t beat yourself  up about it.
once your body returns to its natural state of balance, you may find that you can toss out those artificial sweeteners and put sugar in its proper place: where you have control over it and not vice versa.
remember those carcinogen warnings on the side  of products that contained saccharin?
they no longer appear because industry  testing showed that saccharin only caused bladder cancer in rats.
there will always be those who have a sensitivity  to a substance, but based on reports from other countries it appears to have  little to no side effects.
of course, rats had been chosen for the testing specifically because they metabolize sucralose more like humans than any other animal used for testing.
you may  find you don’t need anything sweeter!
scientists report that eating chocolate initiates a brain response similar to falling in love.
almost all of the  independent research into aspartame found dangerous side effects in rodents.
so let’s make sure you are.
starting your day with a sugary or high-carb breakfast dooms  you to a day of up-and-down blood sugar levels — which will drive you to  eat too much of the wrong things all day long.
we want you to be fully informed about the dangers of splenda (which isn’t what food marketers want!)
for women who want to move through their cravings for sugar without artificial chemicals, stevia is a great option.
related to this article:references & further reading on splenda last modified date: 05/25/2011 principal author: marcelle pick, ob/gyn np questions about the personal program?
for many years, diabetics have used products sweetened with  polyalcohol sugars like sorbitol, xylitol, malitol, and mannitol.
when it comes  to sugar, having a glass or two of wine every day is just like a daily dessert.
according to thenew york times, by the end of this summer 11%  of the food items on supermarket shelves will be labeled “reduced  sugar” — most of those targeted at kids and their health-conscious  moms.
so i urge you to be concerned about the potential dangers of splenda  — as with any unnatural substance you put in your body.
take a short walk after eating and breathe in deeply.
the biggest sources  are the corn sugar and corn syrup found in beverages like juice drinks and soda.
we’ve been told that this artificial sweetener is different from all the past failures — sweet’n low®, nutrasweet®, etc. — and according to the claims, that this splenda is the perfect sugar substitute: as sweet as sugar, but no calories; as sweet as sugar, but no surge in insulin; as sweet as sugar, but no side effects or long-term health damage.
stevia and sorbitol — natural alternatives to  artificial sweeteners other countries and diabetics have both taught us a lot about controlling  insulin naturally.
work on healthy nutrition and you’ll find your cravings will disappear.
some react  poorly, some don’t — the problem is, you never know until  you’re already sick.
splenda side effects evidence that there are side effects of splenda is accumulating little by  little.
so you can make the best choices for yourself and for your family.
so now consumers get sugar everywhere, from simple carbohydrates  (so-called white food) to pure granulated sugar, and in other forms like  dextrose, fruit juice concentrate, maltodextrin, and high–fructose corn  syrup.
but one thing is certain: some of the chemicals that comprise artificial  sweeteners are known hazards — the degree to which you experience side  effects just depends on your individual biochemistry.
the wave is coming because “low–sugar” or  “sugar–free” is the latest fad — a welcome trend, given  the health hazards of all the sugar in the average diet.
the usda recommends an average of 10 teaspoons a day for a  healthy adult (still too much for most women, in my book).
in other  words, the fda has tried to have it both ways — they accepted the  manufacturer’s studies on rats because the manufacturer had shown that  rats and humans metabolize the sweetener in similar ways, but shrugged off the  safety concerns on the grounds that rats and humans are different.
overcome your personal obstacles to losing weight with our new  personal program for weight loss resistance nothing is more discouraging than not being able to lose weight no matter  how hard you try.
but then what happened?
the health effects of sugar what happens to our metabolism, on all that sugar?
and if you do, you’ll  appreciate it more.
some researchers have linked  aspartame with depression and manic episodes.
right now, it’s anyone’s guess what portion of the population is being exposed to the dangers of splenda or already suffering from splenda side effects.
why else would we call our dear ones “honey,”  “sugar,” and “sweetie”?
these had been generally added to food after preparation or to taste during baking and preserving, not pumped into the food itself.
it’s metabolized directly into blood sugar, or glucose, which fuels our brain and muscles.
the enzymes in your  mouth begin a cascade that primes your cell receptors for an insulin surge, and  when it doesn’t arrive your brain feels cheated.
known in south america as the “sweet herb,” stevia has been used for over 400 years without ill effect.
but there simply is no free lunch.
so the  reality is that we are the guinea pigs for splenda.
the evolution of sugar over thousands of years our bodies used naturally sweet food safely and  efficiently in this way.
facing what is really going on in our emotions, our bodies, and our lives can  be challenging, and it’s tempting to take the easy out, buffeted by  sugary treats and comfort food.
but just as a pancake breakfast won’t satisfy your emotional longings, fake sugar won’t feed your body’s needs — nor real sugar, for that matter.
weight loss by marcelle pick, ob/gyn nptweet few of us are really aware of how many new splenda® products there are in the supermarkets.
over time, your body loses the ability to make enough sugar-digesting enzymes to meet the demand, and sugar sensitivity develops.
it all comes down to the brain’s perception of calories, which can get thrown off whenever artificial ingredients are substituted for whole food.
we often put our bodies through the binge–crash cycle several times a day.
see all articles on see all 1,100 articles on women's health "my sweet cravings have completely disappeared!"
self-reported adverse reactions to splenda or sucralose collected by the sucralose toxicity information center include skin rashes/flushing, panic-like agitation, dizziness and numbness, diarrhea, swelling, muscle aches, headaches, intestinal cramping, bladder issues, and stomach pain.
more importantly, you can do a lot to support your body in other ways to reduce your dependency on sugar and sugar substitutes — something i encourage every woman to do.
most  researchers agree that in sufficient doses, saccharin is carcinogenic in  humans.
eating sugar shoots our blood sugar levels up and triggers a spike in the hormone insulin, which is needed to prep our cells to absorb the sugar.
recent studies in europe show that aspartame use can result in an accumulation of formaldehyde in the brain, which can damage your central nervous system and immune system and cause genetic trauma.
what’s worse, low levels of serotonin  actually trigger more sugar cravings.
at our practice, we encourage our patients to build their snacks and meals  from whole food, which means food that has not been processed and manipulated.
in certain cases, i think moderate use of artificial sweeteners is okay — as long as you feel well.
but if you can’t live without your diet drink, don’t beat yourself up about it.
but savor it slowly like a rare treat you may not have again for a while.
this often ties in to deep associations and emotions buried in childhood.
stevia can be used for anything you might use sugar in, including  baking.
the question is, how do you know how much artificial sweeteners your individual body can tolerate?
but you should know that sugar substitutes don’t have to be  artificial.
good nutrition needs to take more into account than calories and fat content — especially when it comes to how many artificial sweeteners we’re eating and what we’re mixing them with.
so i encourage you to nourish yourself from the inside out, with healthy  food, self-care, and healthy relationships.
see how our personal program for weight loss resistance works.
these are natural sweeteners that do not trigger an insulin reaction.
focus more on what you’d like to cook and eat than what you  shouldn’t.
sugar can  also be disguised as evaporated cane juice, cane sugar, beet sugar, glucose,  sucrose, maltose, maltodextrin, dextrose, sorbitol, fructose, corn sugar, fruit  juice concentrate, barley malt, caramel, and carob syrup.
we're here to listen and help.
and that has to do with the old question — which is better, sugar or an artificial sweetener?
women tend to notice this more during perimenopause, when excess sugar and other simple carbohydrates triggersymptoms of hormonal imbalance.
also, the substitutes are hundreds of times sweeter than sugar, so you may use less of them.
it’s been linked with ms, lupus, fibromyalgia and other  central nervous disorders.
this is important because for tens of millions of women, their diet soda or artificially-sweetened food is a keystone of what they think are healthy nutrition and food choices — both for themselves and for their families.
as food additives, artificial sweeteners are not subject to the same gauntlet of fda safety trials as pharmaceuticals.
it may also contribute to male infertility.
on the other side of the argument are responsible experts who say that  splenda is unsafe — the latest in a succession of artificial sweeteners  that claim at first to be healthy, only later to be proven to be full of side  effects.
studies show that our bodies actually work harder in sugar’s afterburn to  restore metabolic homeostasis.
studies show that our bodies actually work harder in sugar’s afterburn to restore metabolic homeostasis.
saccharin, the first widely available chemical sweetener, is hardly mentioned any more.
there is another way!
if you listen to your body, it may surprise you with  a craving for eggs, not a diet soda.
the fda has no definition for “natural,” so please bear with us for a biochemistry moment: splenda is the trade name for sucralose, a synthetic compound stumbled upon in 1976 by scientists in britain seeking a new pesticide formulation.
we think that our regulatory system doesn’t do a good enough job ensuring our long-term safety.
and many of us don’t.
minimize or avoid products that have sugar, high-fructose corn syrup or corn syrup near the top of their ingredient list.
moreover, sugar floods us with pleasure by stimulating the release of the  neurotransmitter serotonin, and probably other mood-elevating substances.
the fda has no definition for “natural,” so please bear with  us for a biochemistry moment: splenda is the trade name for sucralose, a  synthetic compound stumbled upon in 1976 by scientists in britain seeking a new  pesticide formulation.
aspartame has had the most complaints of any food additive available to the public.
the irony is that your body tries to clear unrecognizable substances by digesting them, so it’s not unlikely that the healthier your gastrointestinal system is, the more you’ll absorb the chlorinated molecules of splenda.
once you start tracking your response to artificial sweeteners, it  may surprise you.
and because naturally sweet  food is seasonal, ripening with the sun in the summer or growing almost  exclusively in warm climates, it was relatively rare in past times.
for women trying to stay healthy, artificial sweeteners can seem like the best of both worlds — sugar without calories.
over time, your body loses the ability to make enough sugar-digesting  enzymes to meet the demand, and sugar sensitivity develops.
with all the new splenda products on our shelves, it looks as if we are now in the process of another grand public experiment — without our permission.
and because naturally sweet food is seasonal, ripening with the sun in the summer or growing almost exclusively in warm climates, it was relatively rare in past times.
but there simply is no  free lunch.
we’re often made to feel that avoiding sugar is only matter of willpower, but it’s more complicated than that.
remember, we’re still primitive at a cellular level.
today stevia is slowly  gaining steam as a sugar substitute, despite similar hurdles.
so is it any surprise that we’ve turned to artificial sweeteners for answers?
but unlike many holistic practitioners, i do think artificial sweeteners can serve a purpose for some women.
a sugar craving (which is really a craving for an energy and serotonin surge) becomes a habit.
even now when we eat  sweet foods, special taste buds trigger enzymes that prime our brain to  anticipate this extra boost.
these are  natural sweeteners that do not trigger an insulin reaction.
read this story  |all stories questions about the personal program?
read all labels and be wary of food  that contains aspartame, neotame, saccharin, acesulfame k, or sucralose.
the fda has approved its use as a food supplement, but not as a food additive due to a lack of studies.
this is important because for tens of millions of women, their diet  soda or artificially-sweetened food is a keystone of what they think are  healthy nutrition and food choices — both for themselves and for their  families.
most of the time, uncontrollable or patterned cravings stem from a malfunctioning metabolism or low serotonin.
the manufacturer’s own short-term studies showed that very high doses of sucralose (far beyond what would be expected in an ordinary diet) caused shrunken thymus glands, enlarged livers, and kidney disorders in rodents.
but you should know that sugar substitutes don’t have to be artificial.
our program helps you pinpoint the physiological reasons that your body is resistant to losing weight and shows you how to create the conditions for real, lasting weight loss.
the fda chose not to take these findings into account when it approved  aspartame for public use.
aspartame has had the most complaints of any food additive available to  the public.
other symptoms of sugar sensitivity are headaches,  insomnia, aggression, panic attacks, irritability, mood swings, and depression.
in life there is bound to be some bitterness — the secret is to restore enough balance to delight in the sweet.
this can lead to misleading claims on both sides.
they are never a good idea for pregnant women, children or teenagers — despite the reduced sugar content — because of possible irreversible cell damage.
then there’s the fact that splenda, as a product, consists of more than just sucralose—it’s made with dextrose, and sometimes also with maltodextrin,neither of which were included in the original studies and trials of sucralose.
and  that is also true, but you and your family may prefer not to serve as test  subjects for the latest post-market artificial sweetener experiment —  however “unique.”
saccharin saccharin, the first widely available chemical sweetener, is hardly  mentioned any more.
read all labels and be wary of food that contains aspartame, neotame, saccharin, acesulfame k, or sucralose.
if this sounds familiar, it should: we went down the same path with  aspartame, the main ingredient in equal and nutrasweet.
as with all things, time will unveil truth.
that’s because the bonds holding the carbon and chlorine atoms together are more characteristic of a chlorocarbon than a salt — and most pesticides are chlorocarbons.
this often ties in to deep  associations and emotions buried in childhood.
remember, we have sweet taste buds for a reason.
the majority of people don’t absorb a significant amount of splenda in their small intestine — about 15% by some accounts.
after all, sugar (sucrose) is a carbohydrate.
just make it a treat, not a habit.
you can buy stevia at most health  food stores and over the web.
dangers in aspartame aspartame, the main ingredient in equal and nutrasweet, is responsible for  the most serious cases of poisoning, because the body actually digests it.
like pooh bear and the honey jar, sweet treats are the comfort food of choice for most of us.
if we really listened to our bodies, we probably wouldn’t consume so much sugar.
check with your healthcare practitioner and try the elimination diet, eliminating sugar entirely from your diet for a couple of weeks, then reintroducing it for a day to see how you feel.
and, to help balance out the accompanying insulin surge, eat  a piece of protein with it.
possible side effects of aspartame include headaches, migraines, panic attacks, dizziness, irritability, nausea, intestinal discomfort, skin rash, and nervousness.
but what happens when we are  ingesting a combination of artificial sweeteners like splenda dozens of times a  week through many different “low–sugar” or  “sugar–free” products?
finding comfort in the right places after taking a closer look at what you eat, it may also be useful for you  to examine the role sweet food plays in your life.
these had  been generally added to food after preparation or to taste during baking and  preserving, not pumped into the food itself.
we’re predisposed to seek out sugar when we can find it.
so is it any surprise that we’ve turned to artificial sweeteners for  answers?
new studies in accelerated aging link elevated sugar intake with a process  called glycosylation: proteins in our bodies morph into age’s, or advanced glycosylation end-products, a kind of metabolic debris that  collects in our organ, joint, and skin tissues.
for this reason, we recommend the herb stevia (stevia rebaudiana) over sorbitol as a natural sweetener to our patients.
according to the us department of agriculture, the average american is supplied with 140 pounds of caloric sweeteners per year.
facing what is really going on in our emotions, our bodies, and our lives can be challenging, and it’s tempting to take the easy out, buffeted by sugary treats and comfort food.
scientists are calling splenda a mild mutagen, based  on how much is absorbed.
right now, it’s anyone’s guess what  portion of the population is being exposed to the dangers of splenda or already  suffering from splenda side effects.
most researchers agree that in sufficient doses, saccharin is carcinogenic in humans.
artificial sweeteners can be just as troublesome, with one  exception: sugar addiction — those of us who simply cannot stop eating  sugar once we start.
with a balanced diet and a healthy metabolism, a calorie–control mechanism kicks in after a few minutes to regulate the desire for more food, including the satiety hormone leptin.
let’s start with sugar, where the problems all begin.
other symptoms of sugar sensitivity are headaches, insomnia, aggression, panic attacks, irritability, mood swings, and depression.
the fda admits this is true, but claims the amount is low enough in most that it shouldn’t raise concern.
it’s likely you won’t want dessert after all!
that’s 43 teaspoons for every man, woman and child every day!
products featuring splenda are perceived as “natural” because even the fda’s press release about sucralose parrots the claim that “it is made from sugar” — an assertion disputed by the sugar association, which is suing splenda’s manufacturer, mcneil nutritionals.
there simply are no shortcuts in that department.
over the course of 15 years, those same side effects  increasingly appeared in humans.
when it comes to sugar, having a glass or two of wine every day is just like a daily dessert.
let’s start  with sugar, where the problems all begin.
if you decide it’s  worth the risks, then go ahead, but pay attention to your body and your  cravings.
talk to a woman who knows just what you're going through.
we’ve known about stevia in the us since 1918, but pressure from the sugar import trade blocked its use as a commodity.
keep a bowl of fresh ripe fruit nearby to snack on, to relieve your sugar cravings.