and the kicker?multiple studies have shown this type of training is proven to keep your body burning more calories for up to 2-4 hours after your workout!
questions?  call the studio at 913 499 7510 or email me,  tina@pilates1901.com posted in fat loss | 1 comment  »
can  anyone say yo-yo diet?
shoot for: at least one half-cup serving (a third of your  whole-grain requirements) per day.
how do you make sure that your party clothes fit?
this is always a shock to most  people (especially die hard vegetarians) who have been falsely led to believe  that soy is actually good for you.
yes, i said two tablespoons.
great in theory,  but not so perfect in practice.
sugar is also extremely addictive (causing feeling of highs and lows in the body similar to most drugs).
in fact, if you follow this myth of weight loss, you will end up stranded somewhere, frustrated that you didn’t reach your weight loss goal.
all  of them, no doubt, will have a buffet table packed with delicious holiday  treats: mini quiches, swedish meatballs, the dozens of clever ways people  devise to stuff cream cheese into pastry puffs, elaborate chocolate confections  and spiced buttery baked goods.
the size the authorities measure a standard drink in can look a bit of  a lame joke to a seasoned and thirsty drinker.
eating starchy carbs like rice and  potatoes after a workout will also help you develop the lean, muscular physique  most men and women are looking for.
this means you got to move to make the changes you want for a  sleek, hard body.
cook it as you would any other grain (although some brands require rinsing).
so the only  benefits to gain from an alcoholic drink are those related to alcohol as a  relaxant.
when you get into the cardio heart rate zone, your body will eventually become catabolic, which means it will start burning muscle for fuel.
yes, consuming less calories than you burn each day will result in weight lossbut not necessarily fat loss.
beware: if you grab five of those little 1-inch cubes, you’ve just housed 345 calories.
eat slowly, stopping to put your fork down between bites, feeling yourself becoming fuller.
a high  quality omega 3 supplement also works wonders for your body and helps to burn  off unwanted fat.
and the negative side effects are just as bad as drugs, if not worse.
this is only partially true and the  complete elimination of all fats from your diet is a big mistake.
( i like a combo of healthy carbs, proteins and fats,  like a sliced steak salad or peanut butter and apple.)
shoot for: three servings daily.
recent research showed that boosting fiber by 8 grams for every 1,000 calories consumed resulted in losing about 4 1/2 pounds over the course of 2 years.
now the excuse becomes, “i tried diet and exercise, and it didn’t work for me at all!”
ignoring your muscles needs for fuel protein is not just for bodybuilders.
the answer is high intensity interval training (hiit), and it is the only type we ever prescribe for my clients at pilates 1901.
if you’d  rather sample some of the special seasonal treats, just put two or three of the  most delicious-looking hors d’oeuvres on your plate and enjoy.
if the ingredients list  to your favorite cereal is more complicated than your college organic chemistry  final, chances are you should stay away from it at all costs.
abstinence has meant that i always have my wits about me regarding my daily food choices and i am always motivated enough to exercise and enjoy my healthy lifestyle.
but skip  the hair of the dog—it only delays your misery.
our new class schedule begins next monday!
that’s why i went undercover to discover these super sleuth turkey recipes that are so good, your loved ones will never dream they’re eatingleftovers.
this makes you eat between meals during the day, which tends to add on to the weight.
now, eventually, after all your recently ingested energy is consumed, your body will look elsewhere for energy to fuel you.
or put a small scoop of hummus on your plate.
these uber-healthy fats may help promote fat burning by making your metabolism more efficient, according to kleiner.
you can get rid of  it.
of course you can save face, save calories and save all the misery by just  practicing a little moderation… but just in case….
instead of prepackaged stuffing mix, start with good, wholesome ingredients.
while this can be daunting at first,  you will become accustomed to satisfying your craving with a small treat and  you’ll learn when to say “when” and in turn feel more  confident in your weight-loss efforts.
let us weigh and measure you at pilates 1901 to find out your current body composition (exactly how much of you is fat and how much is not) and set you up with areal life nutrition and exercise programguaranteed to get you results!
eat up and slim down!
but what makes almonds most interesting is their ability to block calories.
add a small handful of crackers to that and you’re easily at 500 calories.
and seeing the big picture  — that little slip-ups don’t count, but long-term changes do  — helps keep things in perspective.
you and approximately hundreds of thousands of  other people who have purchased pre-packaged“health” foods.
keep that anti-inflammatory paleo diet, do resistance training (pilates) a few times a week, and if you want to boost your calorie burn,have a cardio routine that works for you instead of against you.
swarms of people were flocking to his weight loss program as the next big revolution in weight loss.
declaring your intentions publicly is the only way to get real about owning your decision.
sorbitol, saccharin, aspartame and sucrolose are actually worse for you than sugar itself.
in addition to our fabulous vendors, we’re asking you to bring in your gently used workout and casual wear for our first everpilates 1901 swap and shop to benefit our favorite cause, save,inc. this is how it works: we all dig out all the perfectly great workout and casual wear that we don’t sport anymore and swap with each other so we get fun new things for nearly nothing!
step three: stop saying the “d word” d for diet, that is.
free metabolism 101 workshop saturday, september 17th  1:00pm it’s a simple fact of life.
scaring away the cravings halloween can be a scary time of year for those trying to eat less.
pronounced keen-wah, this whole grain contains 5 grams of fiber and 11 grams of protein per half cup.
rewards don’t have to cost a dime — they can be as simple as allowing yourself time to read a chapter of a favorite author or enjoying a long bath.
sideline sodium current dietary guidelines recommend capping sodium at no more than 2,300 milligrams per day; those with high blood pressure (or a family history of the condition), diabetes, or kidney disease, adults over the age of 40, and african americans are encouraged to consume no more than 1,500 milligrams of sodium each day.
yes, some of these people did lose weight but they also were fatigued, extremely constipated and theyall had the kind of bad breath that no amount of altoids could conquer.
this article by jennifer  scott will help you understand the connection between weight-loss difficulties  and this mind frame and provide steps on how to lose weight and avoid all or  nothing thinking.
drain well and transfer to a food processor.
stevia leaves are 250-400 times sweeter than sugar and perfect for helping anyone wean themselves away of refined white sugar and artificial sweeteners.
a great alternative to sugar and artificial sweeteners is the supplement stevia.
repackage cookies in  single-portion bags (or pay more for individually portioned snacks); wrap  leftover slices of lasagna individually in foil and freeze.
that ever-present sense of deprivation not only makes overeating a risk, it also makes life downright miserable.
on any  ordinary day, you’d know that cheese is a high-fat, high-cal  choice—but when those simple little cubes are sitting there amid all the  holiday treats, they start to look like a good choice.
mash it, then stir in leftover potatoes.
keep  that anti-inflammatory paleo diet, do resistance training (pilates) a few times  a week, and if you want to boost your calorie burn,have a cardio  routine that works for you instead of against you.
furthermore, the better your heart and lungs  function, the more effective they become at the fast paced cardio, the less  calories you will burn over time doing the same amount of cardio.
it gets  rid of dryness and flakyness and repairs and heals your dry skin.
leafy greens their cancer-preventing carotenoids won’t help shrink your waistline, but their low calorie count definitely will.
what you eat—or “calories in”—is only one half of  the weight-loss equation.
drops that is, if we don’t intervene to keep our bodies fat  burning machines instead of fat storing machines.
you exercise your heart rate recovery (hrr) which trains your body to be able to recover from intense exercise quicker.
so, if a long life with a lean, healthy and vibrant body is what you are looking for, commit yourself right now to learning exactly how this is possible for you for the long term.
(the low fat, high carbohydrate diet of the day didn’t help much either).
if you have mashed potatoes and cauliflower make: curry-cauli potato cakes put cauliflower in a microwavable bowl with enough water to barely submerge it.
set a weekly goal to  burn 1,000 calories through “programmed” exercise—such as our  hit classes, bootcamp and cardio tramp workouts.
you can lose weight and not give up alcohol in the process.
if you intend to drink and diet, your alcohol consumption will be the square root of not very much at all.
why is this important in your efforts tolose fat?
so you get thebenefit of lean, toned muscles and a way to not be hungry.
so don’t think just because you made less-than-ideal choices today, you can’t start over tomorrow.
and to make sure your skin isn’t looking too hungover… try these great tips!
better bet: go ahead and have one small serving of a  spiced-nut mix that feels more like a treat.
muscle requires more energy (food!) to sustain itself, so if you are using your muscles as fuel, you are in effect lowering your metabolism.
repeat after me: keeping a food journal is not optional!
reduce heat to simmer and cook for 15 minutes.
author:admin aren’t you hip to your own excuses by now?
eat slowly,  stopping to put your fork down between bites, feeling yourself becoming fuller.
and you help celebrate good health, good times and
it’s no wonder these are the same people that complain of a flabby body, fatigue, and hunger pangs that just won’t go away.
beat egg whites in a medium bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until soft peaks form (see tip).
they’re also a good source of magnesium, a mineral your body must have in order to produce energy, build and maintain muscle tissue, and regulate blood sugar.
snacking at midnight first of all disrupts the metabolism.
the fact is, you can get twice  the results in half the time by simply changing the way you do cardio!
frustrated dieters all over the world can’t figureout why their new weight loss shake is not working like the commercial suggested.
step 5: celebrate small victories reward yourself for the small challenges you surmount.
include a source  of healthy protein into each meal (that includes snacks).
december 28th, 2010 | author: admin all or nothing thinking can negatively  affect your weight-loss efforts in ways you don’t even realize.
(one egg packs about 213 milligrams of cholesterol.)
unfortunately, most people go the entire day without eating any protein at  all.
all of them, no doubt, will have a buffet table packed with delicious holiday treats: mini quiches, swedish meatballs, the dozens of clever ways people devise to stuff cream cheese into pastry puffs, elaborate chocolate confections and spiced buttery baked goods.
drain and return to pot.
brush your teeth before sleeping.
or put  a small scoop of hummus on your plate.
where do you find these omega 3’s?
make these foods an integral part of your eating regimen and you will see some great results in your weight loss efforts.
transfer to a lightly oiled 9-by-13-inch baking pan.
if cookies are your downfall, it might be too tempting to keep in your house—but you can go our for a really good one (great harvest bakery) or pick some up on the way to a party so you don’t take them home.
a new year… and the choice is all yours.
a thin body is a body in balance.
midnight hunger pangs are a common phenomenon but they are not only inconvenient but also has bad effects on your health.
this recipe makes: 10 servings, about 3/4 cup each calories per serving: 183 calories; 4 g fat (1 g sat, 2 g mono); 17 mg cholesterol; 26 g carbohydrate; 2 g added sugars; 11 g protein; 4 g fiber; 512 mg sodium; 317 mg potassium.
but before bed you enjoyed a few more.
even some energy sports bars and shakes are loaded up with hydrogenated oils and many other toxic preservatives.
now, our weight loss  progress has all but stopped, so we get discouraged, and quit going to the gym.
i do agree that reducing the amount of carbohydrates in your meal plan will help you loseweight and lean down.
at pilates 1901 we believe in a realistic approach to health and fat loss.
if you burn muscles as an energy source, you also burn up your potential to burn more calories in the future.
to prepare meringue topping: position rack in top third of oven; preheat broiler.
better bet: if you’re just eating to eat (not that i  advocate that… but it happens), go for the vegetables, unadorned.
and seeing the big picture — that little slip-ups don’t count, but long-term changes do — helps keep things in perspective.
let’s get the hopeful, positive stuff over with before turning to the grim bits.
this means going slow-like you’re running a marathon rather than running a sprint race.
translated, this means that seafood may help slow digestion and prevent cravings.
let us weigh and measure you at pilates 1901 to  find out your current body composition (exactly how much of you is fat and how  much is not) and set you up with areal life nutrition and  exercise programguaranteed to get you results!
let stand at room temperature for about 45 minutes before baking.
training for sumo wrestling sumo wrestlers make a concerted effort to get fat for their sport.
in grocery stores, stevia products are typically found  in the health food aisle with other supplements.
most soft drinks, juices and even some “health” drinks have anywhere between 5-10 teaspoons of sugar in each 8 oz serving.
december 22nd, 2010 |
i’d rather have the wine!
"hot" or "not?" december 26th, 2011 |
even some energy sports bars and shakes are  loaded up with hydrogenated oils and many other toxic preservatives.
of course you can save face, save calories and save all the misery by just practicing a little moderation… but just in case….
are you wondering what you are doing wrong or how you will ever be able to lose the weight you have been desperately trying to lose for so long?
well this is exactly  what you are doing when you drink any kind of soft drink, juice and most other  drinks on the market today.
skip the sugary kid candy (unless that’s what you love) and instead choose a few that you really love.
find the middle ground: somewhere between following that overly-strict diet and eating everything you want, there is a point at which you can be both happyand healthy.
(the spaghetti will be very firm to the bite.)
top with turkey, then cabbage mixture, then cheese.
so, you decided to follow that “give in” step last night and  allow yourself a cookie.
studies suggest that feeling deprived—even if you are consuming  plenty of calories—can actually trigger overeating.
i just don’t want my clients to make the same mistakes i did!
per serving: 224 cal, 11.4 g fat (2 g sat), 12 g carbs, 52 mg sodium, 3 g fiber, 19 g protein bonus:
recording everything—the holiday cookie binge as well as the carrots  and celery—makes you accountable for what you eat and can be incredibly  motivating.
well, the other job of  your liver is to burn body fat and if it is too busy ridding youof toxic  overload, it has no time (or energy) to get rid of your unwanted fat.
you may feel better.
does that mean  it’s time to go off the rails the rest of the day just because you blew  it this morning?
furthermore, the better your heart and lungs function, the more effective they become at the fast paced cardio, the less calories you will burn over time doing the same amount of cardio.
find out what you may be doing to sabotage your best fitness efforts!
shoot for: two four-ounce servings per week.
following a strict diet naturally lends itself to giving in to all or nothing thinking: you’re either “on your diet” or you’ve “blown your diet” and if you’ve done the latter … well, you might as well quit altogether and eat whatever you want, right?
you invariably seek solace in your refrigerator when you start looking for a midnight snack.
temptation becomes much less powerful when you know it is fleeting and can be quelled with less than you think.
learn the right carb approach to look great and feel great at the same time.
a touch of highlighter on the inner corners of your eye will make them look brighter.
if you really want a drink or two a day, carefully study a calorie counter guide.
shoot for: an ounce a day (about 23 almonds), with  approximately 160 calories.
(if it doesn’t say wild, it’s farm-raised.)
drizzle broth over the mixture and toss until evenly moistened.
however, that’s the sad  reality.
per serving: 196 calories; 7 g fat (1 g sat, 3 g mono); 46 mg cholesterol; 29 g carbohydrate; 10 g added sugars; 5 g protein; 3 g fiber; 194 mg sodium; 361 mg potassium.
you find them in salmon, walnuts, flax seeds and organic eggs.
repeat after me: keeping a  food journal is not optional!
does this sound like the kind of long term health  plan you should be following?
add oil and salt and pepper to taste.
of course they inevitably discover that you’ve been sneaking and stealing their candy.
it sounds quite feasible till the 3rd or 4th beer.
stevia products are great for beverages, soft  foods, and baking.
eat fearlessly without guilt.
check out our vitabot online nutrition program to learn more about serving sizes.
studies have shown that when people give up their daily “diet drink” (filled withaspartame) they quickly lose up to 10 pounds just by eliminating the consumption of this toxic sweetener.
you can also opt for herbal tea with artificial sweetener.
furthermore, your calorie burn rate drops down to a point where you have to stay on that dang machine for two hours to burn off the calories equivalent to what you ate for breakfast!
they contain cysteine, a substance that breaks down acetaldehyde, a hangover-causing toxin in alcohol.
you want to look toned and healthy  and without visible fat stores that make up a body that looks out of shape.
there is power in accountability.
the worst of today’s soy  protein products are soy protein isolate, soy protein concentrate, texturized  vegetable protein and hydrolyzed vegetable protein.
a bold creamy lip color will not only distract from tired eyes and dullness, it will add some dewyness to your look.
if your family is like mine, the option of leftovers (other than dressing and pie) is usually met with some resistance or even disdain!
sip wisely brew peppermint tea with honey or pour a glass of 100 percent fruit juice.
the protein and fat in the egg may be contributing to the feeling of  satiety.
if you consume more sugar than your body  needs, your clever body will plan to park it somewhere in case you need it  later.
let put this stubborn concept to rest once and for all.
there  are 3 things to include to make your breakfasts healthy: whole grains and lean  protein to help you stay full right through until lunch, and some fruit for  added fiber.
these fats,called omega 3 essential fatty acids, are actually so critical to your body’s functioning, that it is very difficult to experience any weight loss without including them in your meal plan.
set a weekly goal to burn 1,000 calories through “programmed” exercise—such as our hit classes, bootcamp and cardio tramp workouts.
but you’ve got to burn to turn your body into a fat torching machine.
many times when people decide to give up sugar, they quickly resort to artificial sweeteners.
(and they are supposed to be good for you?)
makeup: layer on mascara and line your upper lids to draw attention away from redness in the whites of your eyes.
these uber-healthy fats may help  promote fat burning by making your metabolism more efficient, according to  kleiner.
that kind of “black and white” thinking  can make your weight-loss efforts much more difficult and may even prevent you  from losing weight at all.
you must develop the habit of eating frequent meals  all day long to develop the kind of warp speed metabolism that is going to  allow you to get lean and stay lean (no sense in getting there without being  able to maintain it right?)
i repeat, eat less + increase activity does not equal weight loss.
transfer to a large bowl.
sweep a highlighter or a shimmery bronzer over your cheekbones and along your  t-zone to give your skin a subtle glow.
enlist that help wherever you can find it and expect great returns.
many people actually mistake hunger for dehydration and eat tons more calories than they actually need when all they really needed to do was drink some water!
with the invention of the light bulb at the start of the 20th century, humans became exposed to unnatural light at night.
most of you have all seen the little  diagrams on most cardio equipment.
have a happy holiday everyone and watch out for those calorie bombs!
you will be smaller,yes, (also known as “skinny fat”) , but is that really what you want?
we will be closed friday and saturday, dec 24th and 25th for  christmas
plus we skip the marshmallows and top it with meringue.
click here to upload everything you need to know about kansas city’s best pilates fat loss  program!
a touch of  highlighter on the inner corners of your eye will make them look brighter.
stay tuned for more info on our winter session of leaner stronger  sooner!
most people’s next question is then, “well what is left if i wanta little something sweet?”
the next time you think you have to stay up late to get it all done, remember that your lack of sleep undermines your resistance and ability to burn fat.
or, even worse, you may will circle the world of mainstream empty  weight loss promises and come back to where you started, more overweight than  when you began.
remember, it’s like one cheat  meal per week, have 2 or 3 drinks on one day on the weekend as a regular treat  – if you can stick to it.
better bet: if you’re just eating to eat (not that i advocate that… but it happens), go for the vegetables, unadorned.
pronounced keen-wah, this whole grain contains 5 grams  of fiber and 11 grams of protein per half cup.
you and millions of other people are completely confused about what  constitutes good nutrition and what is really “bad”.
a bold creamy lip color  will not only distract from tired eyes and dullness, it will add some dewyness  to your look.
but what about your body fat?  what’s happening  (or not happening) there.
hit the gym you can’t flush out  alcohol with exercise, but some people find that a workout makes them feel  better, probably due to the feel-good chemicals physical activity  releases.
and you’re staying away from the spiked punch for various reasons.
add a  handful of fresh chopped fruit for flavor and extra fiber.
this means you got to move to make the changes you want for a sleek, hard body.
because even  secret agents need a little help now and then….
like everything related to sensible diet, the amount of alcohol  you can safely consume in a day according to the health police is very very  little.
i’d rather have the  wine!
and don’t miss our free metabolism 101 workhop on saturday,  jan 22nd at 1pm.
so we cut the butter and sugar and use evaporated milk for creaminess and crushed pineapple (with just 2 tablespoons of brown sugar) for a mellow touch of sweetness.
avoiding fat like the plague
posted in fat loss |
interval cardio is short bursts of high intensity work immediately followed by brief periods of rest, for 20 to 30 minutes.
i have never kept  weight off when i did not give up drinking.
yes, eating regularly will help prevent you from feeling deprived and hungry, but grazing at the holiday buffet can easily supply several meal’s worth of calories.
this event is going to be a blast, as usual, so bring your  friends and family-
translated, this means that seafood  may help slow digestion and prevent cravings.
salmon seafood, especially fatty fish like salmon, tuna, and mackerel, is an excellent source of omega-3 fatty acids.
it turned out that the mice in groups-2 and -3 did not gain weight when their mealtimes were restricted to normal activity hours.
eating fibrous carbohydrates like fruits and vegetables actually turns  your body into a fat burning machine.
bake for about 45 minutes or until bubbling.
the same goes for your snacks at home: stash the chips inside a cupboard and keep the apples out on the counter.
as we like to say, you get twice the results in half the time!
cardio burns calories right?
in  other words, they help fuel your workouts.
not only are they overwhelmed and frustrated with all the conflicting information on the market today, they (and probably you) just don’t know where to begin.
if you can’t say itoutloud to your friends and your family, you won’t get past the first hurdle.
it’s not your fault and we can  help!
they contain cysteine, a substance that breaks down  acetaldehyde, a hangover-causing toxin in alcohol.
the only way to reach your ideal weight and stay there is  to develop a healthy way of eating that you enjoy and that you can maintain  (key word is maintain!)
red wine is actually  promoted as a healthy drink in moderation, so you might want to have a glass  with a meal.
subconsciously you think: “oh, now i’ve  screwed up.
people who are “off”  sugar, don’t even miss it.
quinoa’s nutty flavor and  crunchy-yet-chewy texture are like a cross between whole wheat couscous and  short-grain brown rice.
it’s an  office party and you’re staying away from the spiked punch for various  reasons.
shoot for: an ounce a day (about 23 almonds), with approximately 160 calories.
cook until wine evaporates (about 3 minutes).
these diagrams are correct.
yes, you should eliminate unhealthy fats like hydrogenated oils (sorry, that means no french fries or doughnuts).
laboratory experiments should not be considered  “food” have you noticed how much fatter americans have gotten since more  “weight loss” and “diet” foods have been put out on the  market?
use a small bowl for soup and a white-wine glass instead of a big red-wine glass.
perhaps you’ve told someone about the studio – this is  a great time to introduce them to what 1901 is all about!
the worst of today’s soy protein products are soy protein isolate, soy protein concentrate, texturized vegetable protein and hydrolyzed vegetable protein.
you can’t erase last night’s binge, but youcan aim for a much healthier today!
combined, these delicious recipes will save you and your family a whopping 1273 calories at the table this thanksgiving!
most cereals and  packaged foods have sugar (or some form of sugar) listed as the first or second  ingredient (which means it is the ingredient in the highest quantity).
at each, include a little protein  for additional staying power.
have all your meals in a designated place without distractions (i.e., not in front of the tv or at your desk in front of your computer).
the problem is, it can also be unhealthy and downright unsexy too!
to make differentiating between healthy natural food vs. non foods, just stay away from anything that contains ingredients on a labelthat you can’t pronounce.
take a few capsules with each meal to ensure you are getting your omega 3’s daily.
after all, you’re only human … a soon-to-be much lighter human!
posted in pilates fat loss formula program, pilates 1901, fat loss | 1 comment » five no fail things you must do to get your body back in 2012!
you still can’t make like an unrestrained doberman in the butcher shop, but you can have a few drinks to unwind and still manage to lose your unwanted fat.
so  we get fun new things for nearly nothing!
this classic stuffing pairs turkey sausage with the tangy sweetness of apples.
lots of foods that are packed with  antioxidants, vitamins and minerals are also full of calories.
most will probably give up on their diet to boot.
yogurt people who get their calcium from yogurt rather than from other sources may  lose more weight around their midsection, according to a recent study published  in the international journal of obesity.
have you  ever purchased the foods that someone claimed to be “guaranteed to make  you lose weight” only to see the scale go up instead of down?
so, allow yourself a small portion of something  “bad” that you really love now and again instead of telling  yourself it’s off-limits for good.
the more  fiber you eat — experts say that it’s best to get between 25 and 35  grams every day — the fewer calories you absorb from all the other stuff  you put in your mouth.
per serving: 276 cal, 6.8 g fat (3.4 g sat), 26 g carbs, 619 mg sodium, 4 g fiber, 28 g protein revamped reuben 1/2 c packed thin-sliced or shredded green cabbage (1.5 oz) 1 tsp white wine vinegar 1/2 tsp coarse ground mustard 1-2 slices rye bread, lightly toasted 2 oz sliced skinless roast turkey breast 1 slice 2% milk swiss cheese 1.
on any ordinary day, you’d know that cheese is a high-fat, high-cal choice—but when those simple little cubes are sitting there amid all the holiday treats, they start to look like a good choice.
avoid aspirin, which can irritate your stomach, and ditto acetaminophen: it has to be metabolized by your liver, which is already working overtime from the alcohol.
use the hiit philosophy to maximize your time in the gym and not only start seeing results but keep seeing them.
that ever-present sense of deprivation not only  makes overeating a risk, it also makes life downright miserable.
there are 3 things to include to make your breakfasts healthy: whole grains and lean protein to help you stay full right through until lunch, and some fruit for added fiber.
because they were allowing their bodies to enter a state of  “ketosis” which does cause people to lose weight but also quickly  lands them in the hospital.
we’re proud of each of our current participants weight loss and progress and on december 18th one of these people will win a free beach trip to the destination of their choice.
other good choices:  broth and bananas, which restore the sodium and potassium, respectively, you  lost during the night’s frequent bathroom trips.
at the buffet you must opt for a small plate, raw stuff first, food that doesn’t touch or stack on the plate and one and only one special treat.
top with another slice of bread (optional).
if you still think that going on the next crash diet is the only way to lose weight than i have some bad news for you: you have a long life of yo-yo dieting ahead of you.
and keeping track of your calories can help you lose weight, too, as it helps tip you off to behaviors that lead to weight gain.
( i like a combo of healthy carbs, proteins and fats, like a sliced steak salad or peanut butter and apple.)
reward yourself for the small challenges you surmount.
our special guests include:  imagery boutique, dress quest  and lots of bling from premier jewelry designs.
want your body to use fat for fuel?
hydrate: first things first – drink water!
you may even notice your energy and outlook are better.
typically, every client i have ever trained, has come to me prepared to do endless hoursof cardio exercise.
and here is where it gets tragic.
now, our weight loss progress has all but stopped, so we get discouraged, and quit going to the gym.
post it to your facebook page and share the love!
halloween is a great time to teach your kids how to enjoy a little candy as part of a healthy and active lifestyle.
the only  problem is-  this is how you end up getting fat.
have you noticed how much fatter americans have gotten since more “weight loss” and “diet” foods have been put out on the market?
if you factor your  (minimal) alcohol intake into your daily calorie countit is  worth remembering that alcohol = empty calories .
at pilates1901 we know it works.
try doing these five fabulous things instead to get the body you deserve  this year!
we all have a not-so-forgiving little black dress to get into for new year’s eve.
perhaps you’ve told someone about the studio – this is a great time to introduce them to what 1901 is all about!
and try to add activity into  your everyday routines too.
remember, it’s like one cheat meal per week, have 2 or 3 drinks on one day on the weekend as a regular treat – if you can stick to it.
red wine is actually promoted as a healthy drink in moderation, so you might want to have a glass with a meal.
severely limiting your food intake or completely cutting out your favorite foods sets you up for a binge.
place two spoons in your freezer for about ten minutes, then hold the back of them your eyes for about five minutes.
a salad plate or kid-size plate is perfect for your main meal.
it inhibits prostaglandin, a pain messenger linked to increased hangover severity.
you  will be smaller,yes, (also known as “skinny fat”) , but is that  really what you want?  probably not.
steer clear opt for pale spirits (vodka,  white wine, gin) over red wine, bourbon and whiskey.
to make the day especially festive, we’ll have some healthy  nibbles, a seasonal cocktail, and some extra fun vendors so you can shop til  you drop!
but this week, a well-designed study shed some light on how the absence of darkness while we sleep may contribute to weight gain, at least in mice.
no comments » 10 ways to make sure that little black dress fits for the holidays!
“what is the difference,” you say?
that is where many people are  mistaken.
don’t miss our free metabolism 101 workshop on sat jan 21st!
shoot for: one egg a day, unless you have high blood  cholesterol, in which case you should check with your doctor first.
and try to add activity into your everyday routines too.
alcohol disrupts brain chemicals that regulate sleep, so you’ll spend less time in restorative sleep and more in light sleep.
subconsciously you think: “oh, now i’ve screwed up.
but you’ve got to burn to turn your body into a fat  torching machine.
with hundreds of studies showing stevia is a safe alternative, it’s the next big thing.
this event is going to be a blast, as usual, so bring your friends and family-
use the hiit philosophy  to maximize your time in the gym and not only start seeing results but keep  seeing them.
i like to keep mine in a plastic bag in the freezer.
you still can’t make like an unrestrained doberman in the butcher shop,  but you can have a few drinks to unwind.
and just in case you think you’ll skip the cocktail and go for a nice cup of egg nog, remember an 8 ounce glass of that magic will cost you 350 calories, 191 of them as fat calories.
don’t assume that just because something is healthy it is also low-cal.
in fact, if you follow this  myth of weight loss,  you will end  up stranded somewhere, frustrated that you didn’t reach your weight loss  goal.
but what about your body fat?
so now that we have established the difference between weight loss and fat loss, how can we make sure the weight we lose is fat?
nix the alarm you may crash hard, but your  quality of shut-eye will be less than dreamy.
if you lose weight without regard to the amount of fat you have, chances are you will look the same (i.e. love handles, flabby thighs and arms that continue to wave long after your hand has finished).
the protein and fat in the egg may be contributing to the feeling of satiety.
broil 3 inches from the heat source until the cheese melts (about 5 minutes).
the point is, i was working out hours a day doing every kind of  cardio you can imagine, and i was still fat!
this is only partially true and the complete elimination of all fats from your diet is a big mistake.
so now you end up having to domore cardio to equal the calories burned when you first began this exercise routine.
now is the time to forget the notion that more is better when it  comes to cardio.
a fabulous variety of ab flattening  foods!
there’s never been a better time to lose that unwanted  belly fat and we can help you do it!
you may sleep better.
d for diet, that is.
fuel first a liquid dinner is a bad plan;  eat before you go out.
because they were allowing their bodies to enter a state of “ketosis” which does cause people to lose weight but also quickly lands them in the hospital.
set them aside to eat when you really want them.
to make the day especially festive, we’ll have some healthy nibbles, a seasonal cocktail, and some extra fun vendors so you can shop til you drop!
dehydration (a side effect of alcohol, a diuretic) reduces the liquid around  blood cells, making your brain shrivel and leading to headaches, dizziness and  nausea.
you’re pumped up and you’re ready to lose that body fat once and  for all!
well if you lived in asia you would quickly  see that most asians eat soy in small quantities and in the form of old  fashioned fermented soy (such as miso, tempeh, natto, shoyu and tamari) not the  processed, toxic soy that is used in so many vegetarian type products and  weight loss products on the market today.
so before you head out to party, check out these surprisingly unhealthy  holiday calorie bombs and better bets to choose instead.
toss with a fork, pressing a few orange chunks lightly to release juice.
there was a brief moment in time when i thought dr. robert atkins was going  to beelected president.
few of us can stick to a diet plan that restricts entire food groups or relies on one type of food — such as freeze-dried, pre-prepared meals — as its mainstay.
research indicates that the composition of their cell walls may help reduce the absorption of all of their fat, making them an extra-lean nut.
secondly, late night snacks usually are not healthy.
spread mustard on toast.
great in theory, but not so perfect in practice.
recycle your turkey so
studies suggest that feeling deprived—even if you are consuming plenty of calories—can actually trigger overeating.
yes, artificial sweeteners cause weight gain by disrupting  your body’s natural hormones.
when you eat at this time, the digestive system pushes to digest the food.
our pilates fat loss formula has worked to give women just like you and me awesome results- results they had all but given up hope of achieving!
sip wisely brew peppermint tea with honey or  pour a glass of 100 percent fruit juice.
no comments » avoiding the "seasonal 7" december 6th, 2010 | author:  admin avoid holiday upload your holiday survival guide here
call 913 499  7510 for more information!
these ingredients are found  in everything from shake powders, energy bars and veggie burgers to canned  tuna.
you can pipe the meringue to make it look fancy or simply spread it neatly with a rubber spatula.
spread on half of the ricotta mixture, half the spinach, half the turkey, half the remaining tomatoes, and half the provolone.
acknowledging your  achievements — no matter how insignificant they seem — with  non-food rewards will help you stay motivated throughout your weight-loss  journey.
you have nearly 50 classes per week (and that schedule will be expanding very  soon) – of kansas city’s best pilates based mat, ball, cardio,  fusion, kettlebell and equipment classes!
you find them in salmon, walnuts,  flax seeds and organic eggs.
not only will you be saving  yourself from a myriad of health problems (like decreased thyroid function and  hormone disruption) you will also see a dramatic loss in unwanted body fat.
your tactic for avoiding temptation may be to steer clear of all the  special treats and divert yourself with only healthy foods.
… try these great tips!
spread bread on a baking sheet and bake until lightly toasted, 15 to 20 minutes.
but as a relaxant, alcohol takes away the desire to exercise, to eat  well and to give a damn about your fatty bits.
sleep late and you just might bypass any post-party pain.
five great ways to get involved at pilates1901 in 2012!
believe me, i’ve been there: go on a diet that requires you to eat foods you don’t like and you will eventuallydread every meal.
recent research showed that boosting fiber by 8 grams  for every 1,000 calories consumed resulted in losing about 4 1/2 pounds over  the course of 2 years.
you make yourself get up an extra hour every day to walk on the treadmill, do the elliptical, or ride your bike.
plan four “eating episodes” each day—three meals and a snack—spaced at regular intervals to avoid going long stretches without eating (which can also trigger overeating).
stir in pineapple and its juice.
step two: give in now and then severely limiting your food intake or completely cutting out your favorite  foods sets you up for a binge.
perk up your skin: after you wash your face, lock in some moisture – try any of dermadoctor’s kp duty.
lots of foods that are packed with antioxidants, vitamins and minerals are also full of calories.
reduce puffy eyes: while good old tea bags will do the trick, cold spoons will give you thataaah feeling.
not only are  they overwhelmed and frustrated with all the conflicting information on the  market today, they (and probably you) just don’t know where to begin.
while some thought atkins was the best thing since sliced bread, others thought that fat was the root of all evil.
following a strict diet naturally lends itself to  giving in to all or nothing thinking: you’re either “on your  diet” or you’ve “blown your diet” and if you’ve  done the latter … well, you might as well quit altogether and eat  whatever you want, right?
for some, the idea of either doing things to “perfection” or not at  all may even keep them from losing weight altogether.
if you like the healthy treats that sometimes show up at holiday  parties, that’s great!
the next time you think you have to stay up late to get it all done,  remember that your lack of sleep undermines your resistance and ability to burn  fat.
so don’t think just because you  made less-than-ideal choices today, you can’t start over tomorrow.
there are thousands health foods that contain this toxic oil.
even if all health and nutrition ngurus don’t agree on all the same principles, they do all agree on one: water is the magic potion to ensure weight loss.
this lightened-up take on the classic thanksgiving sweet potato casserole is spiked with crushed pineapple and toasted pecans.
any goal worth  achieving is worth investing in and that means going beyond the statement into  action.
archive for the ‘fat loss’ category « older entries let us get you twice the results in half the time february 3rd,  2012 | author:tina you know the story.
(if it  doesn’t say wild, it’s farm-raised.)
spoon the meringue into a gallon-size sealable bag.
everyone is welcome.
wonderful sources of  protein are grass fed meats, free range poultry, organic eggs, wild fish, and  organic raw nuts.
come  and find out what you have to lose!
surprising calorie bomb: cheese and crackers.
quinoa’s nutty flavor and crunchy-yet-chewy texture are like a cross between whole wheat couscous and short-grain brown rice.
but if you try to do too much too soon, the changes will last only days.
(keep hunger at bay with these yummy snacks in 100-, 150-, 200- and 250-calorie increments.)
similarly, gin and tonic has a sneaky number of calories but a lot of these are in the tonic water.
americans, truly, don’t realize how much sugar they  are consuming in one day.
muscle requires more energy (food!) to  sustain itself, so if you are using your muscles as fuel, you are in effect  lowering your metabolism.
add potato mixture and milk, stirring constantly, until smooth.
season liberally with pepper and set aside.
get the stuff kids love rather than bags and bags of your favorites.
but you didn’t choose to put it there so stop mindlessly putting it in your mouth!
let’s get the hopeful, positive stuff over with before turning to the  grim bits.
it inhibits  prostaglandin, a pain messenger linked to increased hangover severity.
now is the point where it gets tricky.
well this is exactly what you are doing when you drink any kind of soft drink, juice and most other drinks on the market today.
quinoa never heard of it?
december 6th,  2010 |
don’t limit yourself to the usual suspects, like raspberries, blueberries, and strawberries.
this is especially true if you don’t use your muscles (do resistance training, like pilates) on a regular basis.
take a few capsules with each meal to ensure you are getting  your omega 3’s daily.
the more fiber you eat — experts say that it’s best to get between 25 and 35 grams every day — the fewer calories you absorb from all the other stuff you put in your mouth.
you want to look toned and healthy and without visible fat stores that make up a body that looks out of shape.
stevia is a naturally sweet plant native to paraguay that is 30 times sweeter than sugar in its unprocessed form.
you find yourself foraging treats from the pumpkin basket and burying the candy wrappers at the bottom of the garbage can so your children won’t find out.
there is no fat in alcohol, but the  sugar can be a killer for your diet.
come find out how many women, just like you have discovered how to reclaim  their bodies with thepilates fat loss formula program!
even if all  health and nutrition ngurus don’t agree on all the same principles, they  do all agree on one: water is the magic potion to ensure weight loss.
as someone who came into this businessduring the 80′s (the era of jane fonda, leg warmers, thongs and dance aerobics), i fell into the trap of believing cardio was the key to my own fat loss, fitness and health.
most people just can’t seem to get it through their head that not only don’t they have to spend hours on the treadmill,but that they shouldn’t.
be sure to enter to win at the door!
yes, brown bagging a healthy lunch four days in a row instead of getting fast food is a victory.
we love fage greek yogurt!
if you often feel like you are starving all day no matter how much food you’ve consumed, chances are you may be severely dehydrated.
you still can’t make like an unrestrained doberman in the butcher shop, but you can have a few drinks to unwind.
remember the next time you think you’ll save a few extra calories by skipping breakfast, you’re really just sabotaging yourself and setting yourself up for irresistible cravings later in the day.
if you don’t have this discipline, your  weight loss efforts will fail.
and just in case you think you’ll skip the cocktail and go for a nice  cup of egg nog, remember an 8 ounce glass of that magic will cost you 350  calories,  191 of them as fat calories.
learn the right carb  approach to look great and feel great at the same time.
go to bed after eating this heavy meal.
well by jessie price.
“a large apple has 5 grams of fiber, but it’s also nearly 85 percent water, which helps you feel full,” explains elisa zied, rd, author ofso
our special guests include: imagery boutique, dress quest and lots of bling from premier jewelry designs.
master mixing diet soda empties out of your stomach more quickly than regular, so you’ll get woozy faster if you use it.
if you have fruits, chances are high that you will have acidity and you might not be able to sleep properly.
i have never kept weight off when i did not give up drinking.
that kind of “black and white” thinking can make your weight-loss efforts much more difficult and may even prevent you from losing weight at all.
it’s not brain surgery.
continue beating until stiff peaks form.
don’t just read this!
let sit for 5 minutes.
alcohol disrupts brain chemicals  that regulate sleep, so you’ll spend less time in restorative sleep and  more in light sleep.
can you imagine putting 8 oz of water in a cup and then  adding 10 teaspoons of white sugar and then drinking it?
so where are we now?
and in between now and then we have to survive a myriad of holiday parties, each one providing it’s own eating and drinking challenges.
pipe the meringue onto the casserole, making marshmallow-size dots.
it would be impossible to pick up any diet or weight loss book without it  saying somewhere “drink 8-10 cups of water each day.”
* source: fitness magazine posted  infat loss |
protein is not just for bodybuilders.
“how is this possible,” one might ask?
have h2o gulp a glass or two of water.
you can’t expect to lose  weight if your hormones are raging from stress, low blood sugar and lack of  sleep.
fuel first a liquid dinner is a bad plan; eat before you go out.
processed foods can truly be  considered “non foods” since they resemble more of a science  experiment than they do real food.
so now that you are completely discouraged and don’t know what to do,  here is the light at the end of the tunnel.
“a stable  blood-sugar level helps prevent cravings that can lead to overeating and weight  gain,” says david katz, md, a professor at the yale university school of  medicine.
more classes -more  variety- more results for you!
find out what you may be doing to  sabotage your best fitness efforts!
the hunger is sudden and you usually do not prepare something for yourself.
(and they  are supposed to be good for you?)
mint soothes your stomach, and honey  and fructose (fruit sugar) help the body metabolize alcohol faster.
stevia leaves are 250-400 times sweeter than  sugar and perfect for helping anyone wean themselves away of refined white  sugar and artificial sweeteners.
it’s okay to have sparkling water or club soda, but be sure to read the fine print on labels since many of them have added sodium.
join us this saturday at pilates1901 for our metabolism 101  workshop.  this event is free and everyone is welcome.
the fact is, most people who successfully lose weight —  and more importantly,keep that weight off — make healthy,  permanent lifestyle changes such as getting regular exercise, consciously  practicing portion control and finding ways to prevent emotional eating.
check out this post from eating well magazine, because  knowledge is power!
“a stable blood-sugar level helps prevent cravings that can lead to overeating and weight gain,” says david katz, md, a professor at the yale university school of medicine.
the scientists exposed three groups of mice to different light cycles.
stayed tuned for more recipes from the leaner stronger sooner pilates fat loss program and pilates 1901.
sign up under the workshop tab today via your online account.
antioxidants help improve blood flow, which can help  muscles contract more efficiently.
and its not just drinks that are loaded with sugar.
don’t just think your goals, say them loud and say them  proud!
you must have  that moment to make good choices.
furthermore, your calorie burn rate drops down to a  point where you have to stay on that dang machine for two hours to burn off the  calories equivalent to what you ate for breakfast!
if that doesn’t hook you, consider this: seafood is an excellent source of ab-friendly protein.
per serving (using 1 slice of bread): 205 cal, 2.5 g fat (0.7 g sat), 19 g carbs, 511 mg sodium,3 g fiber, 25 g protein curried turkey soup 2 c peeled roasted sweet potatoes, cut into chunks 1 tbsp flour 1 tbsp canola oil 1 tsp curry powder 1 tsp grated fresh ginger 1 1/2 c finely chopped broccoli 1/2 c sliced scallion (white and green parts) 2 c 1% milk 1 1/2 c (8 oz) finely chopped skinless roast turkey hot sauce (optional) 1.
you don’t stay in  the high cardio range long enough to burn muscle.
recording everything—the holiday cookie binge as well as the carrots and celery—makes you accountable for what you eat and can be incredibly motivating.
“less” can really yeild  ‘more” killer results!
author:admin leftovers like they’ve never seen before!
the first way to avoid all or nothing thinking is to shake the idea that losing weight is something you do “right” just temporarily and then the work is done.
add the sweet potato; whisk until smooth.
here’s 5 amazingly creative meal options: herbed turkey ragout with spaghetti 1/3 c minced carrot 1/3 c minced onion 1 tbsp olive oil 2 tsp crumbled dry sage leaves 1/2 tsp black pepper 1/4 tsp salt 1/4 c dry white wine 1 1/2 c (8 oz) finely chopped skinless roast turkey 3/4 c fat-free no salt added chicken broth 1/2 c reduced-sodium canned tomato puree 1/2 c 1% milk 3 tbsp chopped parsley 8 oz whole-wheat spaghetti 1.
almonds these delicious and versatile nuts contain filling protein and fiber, not to mention vitamin e, a powerful antioxidant.
so if your number one goal was to get fat this is exactly what you could do: 1.
yes, brown bagging a healthy lunch four days in a row instead of  getting fast food is a victory.
sweep a highlighter or a shimmery bronzer over your cheekbones and along your t-zone to give your skin a subtle glow.
don’t spend hours on the machines and put yourself at risk for failure in the battle against fat.
if seafood’s not your thing, you can get your omega-3′s from flaxseed (grind and sprinkle on your cereal) or walnuts.
and that is true inevery aspect of life.
at the buffet you must opt for a small plate,  raw stuff first, food that doesn’t touch or stack on the plate and one  and only one special treat.
all of these artificial sweeteners have been linked to cancer,  tumors, and obesity.
the tricky part is that labeling the foods you love as evil actually increases their power over you.
in addition to our fabulous vendors, we’re asking you to bring in  your gently used workout and casual wear for our first everpilates 1901  swap and shop to benefit our favorite cause, save,inc. this is how it works:  we all dig out all the perfectly great workout  and casual wear that we don’t sport anymore and swap with each other
plan four “eating episodes” each day—three meals and a  snack—spaced at regular intervals to avoid going long stretches without  eating (which can also trigger overeating).
darker booze contains more congeners, chemicals that up inflammation in the body, intensifying your hangover.
alcohol has an affinity for salty, fatty snack foods.
you’ll see the puffyness decrease and look  more awake.
so before you head out to party, check out these surprisingly unhealthy holiday calorie bombs and better bets to choose instead.
keep your food diary!
take it easy on yourself as you learn how to be a new, improved, healthier you.
most soft drinks, juices and even some  “health” drinks have anywhere between 5-10 teaspoons of sugar in  each 8 oz serving.
it’s for every person who wants to achieve a lean, slender and toned physique (did i just describe every person on the planet?)
process until smooth.
all of these artificial sweeteners have been linked to cancer, tumors, and obesity.
swarms of people were flocking to his weight loss  program as the next big revolution in weight loss.
if the ingredients list to your favorite cereal is more complicated than your college organic chemistry final, chances are you should stay away from it at all costs.
typically, every client i have ever trained, has come to me prepared to  do endless hoursof cardio exercise.
upload your copy here!
so, if  a long life with a lean, healthy and vibrant body is what you are looking for,  commit yourself right now to learning exactly how this is possible for you for  the long term.
how to get motivated again: 5 steps to avoid all or nothing thinking!
drinking alcohol dehydrates your body, causing your skin to lose its  firmness and dewy appearance.
it’s a great time of year to get the excess out of your  closets!
so the next time you think you don’t have time to cook, drive past the drive thru and into the grocery salad bar instead.
most cereals and packaged foods have sugar (or some form of sugar) listed as the first or second ingredient (which means it is the ingredient in the highest quantity).
for some, the idea of either doing things to “perfection” or not at all may even keep them from losing weight altogether.
add wine, and increase heat to medium high.
or, perhaps, as this article from caloriecount.com suggests, the time when food is eaten may be more important than was previously thought.
back into classes that is!
(one egg  packs about 213 milligrams of cholesterol.)
expanding that “family” to include your friends at work or your workout facility is not only a nice idea, but an essential one.
because even secret agents need a little help now and then….
give up grazing (at the buffet)
if you really want some candy, ask your child to share a few pieces with you.
no unrealistic and unhealthy diet scheme is ever going to get you looking and feeling the way you have been wanting to look and feel for so long.
it  sounds trite, but every day truly is a new beginning.
we like them because they keep our hands out of the cookie jar.
shoot for: at least one half-cup serving (a third of your whole-grain requirements) per day.
most people’s next question is then, “well  what is left if i wanta little something sweet?”
we have less muscle and burn less  calories than we did when we stepped foot in the gym.
include a source of healthy protein into each meal (that includes snacks).
declaring your intentions publicly is the only way to get real about  owning your decision.
not allowing yourself to make mistakes is the worst mistake you can make.
in other words, they help fuel your workouts.
your heart and lungs get the required demand put upon them to make them stronger.
but  perhaps more importantly (at least this time of year!), research shows that  people who are most successful at losing weight eat breakfast every day.
the following ten mistakes from nutrition expert isabele de los rios are preventing millions of people from finally enjoying the body they’re dreaming of.
when office workers were given candies in clear dishes to place on their desktops, they helped themselves to candy 71 percent more often than a similar group that was given the same candy in opaque dishes so the candy wasn’t visible, according to research out of cornell university.
cheese and bread or fruits are the common available options.
it’s not your fault and we can help! questions?
the fact is, most people who successfully lose weight — and more importantly,keep that weight off — make healthy, permanent lifestyle changes such as getting regular exercise, consciously practicing portion control and finding ways to prevent emotional eating.
you can’t expect to lose weight if your hormones are raging from stress, low blood sugar and lack of sleep.
lay the foil, sprayed side down, over lasagna and loosely seal the edges.
one cup of spinach contains only  about 40 calories, while a cup of broccoli has 55 calories and satisfies 20  percent of your day’s fiber requirement.
nix the alarm you may crash hard, but your quality of shut-eye will be less than dreamy.
this simple exercise in accountability makes all the difference in attitude and action.
steer clear opt for pale spirits (vodka, white wine, gin) over red wine, bourbon and whiskey.
if you keep off the booze through the week and let your guard down a bit for only one day on the weekend, it could work for you .
artificial sweeteners are definitelynot the answer!
when grocery shopping, look for foods and beverages labels that boast “sodium free,” “very low sodium,” “low sodium,” “unsalted,” “no salt added,” and “without added salt on labels;” choose fresh meats and poultry over “deli meats;” and choose fresh fish and shellfish over processed, canned options (though you can rinse canned fish to remove about half the sodium).
season with curry powder, salt, and pepper to taste.
being physically active feels good and provides numerous benefits for your health.
shoot for: at least one cup of low-calorie, low-sodium  vegetable soup every day!
if you’d rather sample some of the special seasonal treats, just put two or three of the most delicious-looking hors d’oeuvres on your plate and enjoy.
(honestly, how long do youreally think you  will be able to eat those for each meal?)
these chemicals  are all toxins to your body (just as artificial sweeteners are) and your liver  becomes extremely overwhelmed trying to rid your body of these harmful toxins.
you can lose weight and not give up alcohol in the  process.
tips: calories saved: 187 healthy eating secret: stuffing is best made from scratch.
weaning yourself off sugar and sugar containing products will cause a  drastic and immediate change in your weight.
so you get thebenefit of lean, toned  muscles and a way to not be hungry.
the answer is high intensity interval training (hiit), and  it is the only type we ever prescribe for my clients at pilates 1901.
acknowledging your achievements — no matter how insignificant they seem — with non-food rewards will help you stay motivated throughout your weight-loss journey.
after all, does it really make sense to eat all your dinner to earn dessert?
you make yourself get up an extra hour every day to walk on the treadmill,  do the elliptical, or ride your bike.
while good old tea bags will  do the trick, cold spoons will give you thataaah feeling.
being scammed by “health food”
we all go through it at one point or another–our pants get snug, our fingers swell, and we feel puffed out.
if you have an unhealthy snack, it adds on to your weight and disrupts the metabolic activities as mentioned earlier.
sounds like a win, win to me.
we like them because they keep our hands out  of the cookie jar.
add the sausage, toasted bread, sage, thyme and basil to the bowl.
if you look at your weight-loss efforts as something you’re only  doing “for now,” those new, healthy changes won’t be  permanent.
and the kicker?multiple studies have shown this type  of training is proven to keep your body burning more calories for up to 2-4  hours after your workout!
well, one of the nasty culprits causing millions ofpeople to pack on the pounds is hydrogenated oil.
if you factor your (minimal) alcohol intake into your daily calorie countit is worth remembering that alcohol = empty calories .
preheat oven to 350°f.
but how effective your  workouts are that matter.
better bet: stick to 1 cup of cider, then switch to seltzer with lime.
and keeping track of your calories can help you lose weight, too,  as it helps tip you off to behaviors that lead to weight gain.
but as a relaxant, alcohol takes away the desire to exercise, to eat well and to give a damn about your fatty bits.
if you didn’t know better, it would be easy to mistake the classic marshmallow-topped sweet potato casserole for a dessert instead of a side dish.
there are many health foods on the market today that are causing people to gain weight, as well as making it near impossiblefor them to lose weight.
avoid  aspirin, which can irritate your stomach, and ditto acetaminophen: it has to be  metabolized by your liver, which is already working overtime from the alcohol.
but skip the hair of the dog—it only delays your misery.
call the studio at 913 499 7510 or email me, tina@pilates1901.com all or nothing thinking can negatively affect your weight-loss efforts in ways you don’t even realize.
wine is not the worst choice for a weight control diet and if you can bear  a spritzer of half wine and half flat or fizzy water; you can double your  drink, but limit your alcohol.
soup eaters also maintained, on average, a total weight loss of 16 pounds after one year.
but how effective your workouts are that matter.
any goal worth achieving is worth investing in and that means going beyond the statement into action.
stevia is a naturally sweet  plant native to paraguay that is 30 times sweeter than sugar in its unprocessed  form.
most leafy greens are also a good source of calcium, an essential ingredient for muscle contraction.
better bet: go ahead and have one small serving of a spiced-nut mix that feels more like a treat.
the first way to avoid all or nothing thinking is to shake the idea that  losing weight is something you do “right” just temporarily and then  the work is done.
from now until january 7th, you  can save $50 on our next session of pilates fat loss formula!
if you really want a drink or two a day, carefully study a calorie counter  guide.
yes, eating regularly will help prevent you from feeling deprived and  hungry, but grazing at the holiday buffet can easily supply several  meal’s worth of calories.
have a happy holiday everyone and watch out for those calorie  bombs!
reading nutrition facts panels on packages (and on calorie count) is a great way to find lower sodium options.
kc’s best pilates fat loss  program is about to kick off another season at pilates 1901!
one 7 ounce beer is around 100 calories.
shoot for: one egg a day, unless you have high blood cholesterol, in which case you should check with your doctor first.
we all know that guilt leads to more eating, not less, so let it go.
eating starchy carbs like rice and potatoes after a workout will also help you develop the lean, muscular physique most men and women are looking for.
cover and cook, stirring occasionally, until onion is golden (about 3 minutes).
alcohol suppresses the t cells the body needs to  defend itself, leaving you vulnerable to germs at the bar, exacerbating  hangover symptoms.
want your body to use fat  for fuel?
berries  (and other fruits) are also high in antioxidants, which not only help protect  you from chronic diseases like cancer but may also help you get more results  from your workouts.
that means for every “standard” beer you drink, you could walk briskly for 10-15 minutes to negate the calories consumed or go without 100 calories of some other, more nutritious food or drink.
the worst soy oil products are margarines and shortenings made from  partially hydrogenated soybean oil containing dangerous trans fatty acids.
shoot for: one to three cups a day of low-fat or fat-free  yogurt.
click here to upload everything you need to know about kansas city’s best pilates fat loss program!
if you don’t have this discipline, your weight loss efforts will fail.
it also causes blood flow to be directed away from your skin and to your vital organs, so your skin has poorer circulation.
so now that you are completely discouraged and don’t know what to do, here is the light at the end of the tunnel.
no unrealistic and unhealthy diet scheme is ever going to get you looking  and feeling the way you have been wanting to look and feel for so long.
if you look at your weight-loss efforts as something you’re only doing “for now,” those new, healthy changes won’t be permanent.
you’ll be less tempted to get into the kid’s holiday candy if stop depriving yourself the rest of the year.
when you get on that treadmill, bike, or elliptical trainer, your body begins to use energy.
expanding  that “family” to include your friends at work or your workout  facility is not only a nice idea, but an essential one.
to digest food, your body closes the valve into the small intestine, where alcohol is most quickly absorbed, so you’re less likely to get buzzed.
in a heavy pot, combine carrot, onion, oil, sage, pepper, and salt over medium heat.
don’t fall into the “no carb” trap.
it is the processed and refined wheat and grains that are causingeveryone to blow up like balloons.
there is nothing to stop  you having one or even two drinks a day if you want to.
author: admin why we are fat… and how not to be.
stick to your meal times.
if you can find them, add  boysenberries, gooseberries, and black currants to the mix for excitement.
drinking lowered my resistance to food cravings and i gave into them over time.
check out this post from eating well magazine, because knowledge is power!
the fact is, you can get twice the results in half the time by simply changing the way you do cardio!
try substituting altiplano gold brand instant quinoa hot cereal (160 to 210 calories per packet), in chai almond and spiced apple raisin, for oatmeal.
unfortunately, most people go the entire day without eating any protein at all.
cover the stuffing with foil and bake until heated through, 35 to 45 minutes.
when office workers were given candies in clear dishes to place on their  desktops, they helped themselves to candy 71 percent more often than a similar  group that was given the same candy in opaque dishes so the candy wasn’t  visible, according to research out of cornell university.
sugar is also extremely addictive (causing feeling of highs and lows in the  body similar to most drugs).
eat 5-7 well portioned meals each day and you will see your body burn fat faster than you can say “sumo wrestler.”
drink a minimum of ½ of your bodyweight in ounces of filtered water each day to ensure that your body rids itself of the unwanted fat youare aiming to lose.
if you are going to drink alcohol and successfully diet at the same time,  you need to be very aware of how many calories as well as standard drinks you  are consuming.
but the healthy fats found in wild fish and nuts  are absolutely necessary for your body to function at optimum.
hanging near the crudité tray is a great way to keep calories in check—so long as you stay away from the ranch (or blue cheese) dressing, which delivers a devastating 150 calories and 16 grams of fat per two tablespoons.
breakfast gives me a much-needed energy boost for the rest of the day.
yes, some of these people  did lose weight but they also were fatigued, extremely constipated and theyall  had the kind of bad breath that no amount of altoids could conquer.
try substituting altiplano gold brand  instant quinoa hot cereal (160 to 210 calories per packet), in chai almond and  spiced apple raisin, for oatmeal.
all of these result in that dry, dullness you see in the mirror.
how do you beat water weight gain?
we say nearly nothing because  there is a$10 entry fee that goes to benefit save,inc for all swapper  shoppers.
season with salt and pepper.
plus we go with whole-wheat bread for added fiber and turkey sausage because it has less fat than regular pork sausage.
weaning yourself off sugar and sugar containing products will cause a drastic and immediate change in your weight.
get into the groove with our pilates on ramp  group intro to reformer training workouts- priced right and a pure  delight.
gently stir in garlic and oregano.
call 913 499 7510 for more  information!
use a  small bowl for soup and a white-wine glass instead of a big red-wine glass.
any weight we may have lost comes back and then some since our calorie burning ability has diminished.
this is something i usually do not  recommend, but in the effort to get real to  get moving,  i am suggesting youget on the scale.
“less” can really yeild ‘more” killer results!
there simply is no  program more effective for melting fat and inches off your body!
this is always a shock to most people (especially die hard vegetarians) who have been falsely led to believe that soy is actually good for you.
while some thought atkins was the best thing since sliced bread, others  thought that fat was the root of all evil.
call 913 499 7510 or visit us online at www.pilates1901.com posted in fat loss | 2 comments » what to eat today for flatter abs tomorrow!
and the negative side effects are just as bad as  drugs, if not worse.
when you consider that water helps the body metabolize stored fat, rid the body of waste (as in unwanted fat and toxins), and is a natural diuretic and a natural laxative, no wonder it is an absolute must when fat loss is your goal.
the result: we cut more than 400 calories and 15 grams of fat per serving.
this strategy has been working for sumo wrestlers for  years.
another nasty culprit is processed soy.
add broccoli and scallions.
to make matters worse, the number on the scale goes up even though we’re sticking to a healthful routine.
it has a more reasonable 50 calories and  3 grams of fat.
we want you to rock your body this year so make the commitment and  sign up today!
don’t limit yourself to the usual suspects, like  raspberries, blueberries, and strawberries.
when you go slow and keep your heart rate in the “fat burning” zone, your heart and lungs no longer have to work as hard, so they aren’t getting stronger anymore.
the three groups of mice ate the same amount of food and got the same amount of exercise, but the mice in groups-2 and -3 gained almost 50 percent more weight than the mice in group-1 and they experienced a rise in blood sugar too.
your life should not be one of denial – it should be one of joy!
please post in the space below….
light probably disrupts the biological clock, and when that’s combined with nighttime eating, weight gain and blood sugar problems may ensue.
keep a bag of prewashed baby spinach in your fridge and toss a handful into soups, salads, pasta dishes, stir-fries, and sandwiches.
self care requires a moment between stimulus and response.
exercise is equally important.
which of these do you think is holding you back?
antioxidants help improve blood flow, which can help muscles contract more efficiently.
with hundreds of studies showing stevia is a safe alternative, it’s  the next big thing.
the following ten mistakes from nutrition expert  isabele de los rios are preventing  millions of people from finally enjoying the body they’re dreaming  of.
and as long as we are going faster, lets go longer and really amp up that weight loss for faster results.
author:admin don’t be anywhere else on saturday, december 18th as  pilates1901
if you are going to drink alcohol and successfully diet at the same time, you need to be very aware of how many calories as well as standard drinks you are consuming.
losing fat isn’t really that difficult if you know what to do.
processed foods can truly be considered “non foods” since they resemble more of a science experiment than they do real food.
share your holiday drinking tips with others – add it to the post below.
tired of thanksgiving turkey?
contact us | terms of use | trademarks | privacy statement copyright © 2010 pilates 1901 - pilates in kansas city.
for more information on pilates 1901 and our pilates fat loss formula, this *post, from kc’s best fat loss program, the pilates fat loss formula, details the top 8 foods to eat to gid rid of that pooch!
step one: get a life (change)!
8 pilates equipment classes -just $199!
in grocery stores, stevia products are typically found in the health food aisle with other supplements.
i’ve known girls to drink rum and diet coke in the misguided belief that the diet coke is saving them enough calories to justify the sugar saturated, calorie laden rum component.
so what about the formula:  eat less + increase  activity=weight loss.???
for more information on pilates 1901 and our pilates fat loss  formula, posted in fat loss | 1 comment » what happened to my metabolism?
shriveling up like a prune
eggs you won’t find a more perfect protein source.
spread 1/4 c tomatoes over bottom of baking dish and place 3 noodles, overlapping slightly, over sauce.
since we’ve  lost muscle mass  our metabolism is slower.
as we like to say, you get twice the results in half  the time!
november 29th, 2010 |
if your family is like mine, the option of leftovers (other than dressing  and pie) is usually met with some resistance or even disdain!
toss with dressing to coat.
believe me, i’ve been there: go  on a diet that requires you to eat foods you don’t like and you will  eventuallydread every meal.
if you have the urge, drink a glass of water or two.
: after you wash your face,  lock in some moisture – try any of dermadoctor’s kp duty.
here’s some food for thought: all or nothing thinking is a way to let yourself off the hook.
but the healthy fats found in wild fish and nuts are absolutely necessary for your body to function at optimum.
shoot for: at least half a cup daily, or about 30 calories’ worth.
stay tuned for more recipes from the leaner stronger sooner fat loss program, kansas city’s premier pilates program to save your family up to 1300 calories this thanksgiving!
december 27th, 2011 |
darker booze contains more  congeners, chemicals that up inflammation in the body, intensifying your  hangover.
they’re also a good source  of magnesium, a mineral your body must have in order to produce energy, build  and maintain muscle tissue, and regulate blood sugar.
look for it in health-food stores.
these ingredients are found in everything from shake powders, energy bars and veggie burgers to canned tuna.
this sausage stuffing has about half the calories and 87% less saturated fat than traditional sausage stuffing because we use more apples and vegetables and less bread and sausage.
the first few days may be a bit of  a “detox” (just like a drug) but these symptoms quickly disappear  (and so do the pounds!)
posted infat loss | no comments » can i drink on
add turkey and simmer just until it’s heated (about 3 minutes).
besides having the proper  diet, which is the key to losing fat, we look to exercise to supplement this  goal.
pump up potassium many fruits and vegetables boast potassium, a mineral that helps maintain the body’s water balance.
apples a 2003 study in the journal nutrition found that overweight women who consumed three apples or pears a day for three months lost more weight than their counterparts who were fed a similar diet with oat cookies instead of fruits.
surprising calorie bomb: spiced cider.
eat the bulk of your caloric intake in a large heavy meal, filled with complex carbohydrates in the evening 3.
when you get sick of spinach, reach for a  bunch of arugula, broccoli rabe, or broccolini, a cross between broccoli and  chinese kale.
it’s no wonder these are the same people that complain of a flabby  body, fatigue, and hunger pangs that just won’t go away.
i worked out every day, for hours a day, sometimes teaching as many as 3-4 aerobic classes per day, and guess what, i was still too fat!
cook it as you would any other  grain (although some brands require rinsing).
wild salmon,  though pricey, contains more omega-3 fatty acids than farm-raised.
a study published in  thejournal of agricultural and food chemistry found that the red  delicious, cortland, and northern spy varieties had the highest antioxidant  activity.
if you’re consuming 2,000  calories per day, aim to increase your fiber by 16 grams.
we’re proud of each of our current participants weight loss and  progress and on december 18th one of these people will win a free beach trip to  the destination of their choice.
how do you handle halloween candy?
stayed tuned for great new fun stuff at pilates 1901 as we delve into 2012!
top with the remaining noodles, ricotta mixture, spinach, turkey, tomatoes, and provolone.
but you must reduce the bad and increase the  good.
your tactic for avoiding temptation may be to steer clear of all the special treats and divert yourself with only healthy foods.
if you love it that much, act like it!
and then this  morning … you polished off the package for breakfast.
so if you drink even a moderate amount of alcohol while trying to lose weight, your body is likely to thank you by slapping lard deposits in all your bumpiest storage facilities.
“plus, it’s a simple way to get your vegetables,”  says susan kleiner, phd, rd, author of power eating (human kinetics, 2001).
frustrated  dieters all over the world can’t figureout why their new weight loss  shake is not working like the commercial suggested.
choose unsweetened yogurt that contains live active cultures.
december 16th, 2010 |
the point is, i was working out hours a day doing every kind of cardio you can imagine, and i was still fat!
alcohol has an affinity for salty,  fatty snack foods.
it’s all-natural, contains zero calories, and has a zero glycemic index.
i do miss a good red or a cold beer, but for me the trade off is worth the sacrifice.
can you imagine putting 8 oz of water in a cup and then adding 10 teaspoons of white sugar and then drinking it?
(honestly, how long do youreally think you will be able to eat those for each meal?)
of course you can drink (alcohol) and diet.
doing an exercise video a just twice this week  is a triumph if you didn’t do it at all last week.
you  don’t have to live in a body you’re not comfortable in one more day!
making any food  off-limits just increases its allure: you can’t avoid a trigger food your  whole life, but you can learn how to eat the foods you binge on in moderation.
an empty altoids tin will hold your daily dose  perfectly.
this is how you end up getting fat.
our cardio kettlebells, cardio tramp, cardio sculpt and cardio tramp classes are all just 29 minutes long!
this means going slow-like you’re running a marathon rather  than running a sprint race.
choose fresh, dried or canned fruit made without added sugar and aim for 1.5 to 2 cups a day.
as someone who came into this businessduring the 80′s  (the era of jane fonda, leg warmers, thongs and dance aerobics), i fell into  the trap of believing cardio was the key to my own fat loss, fitness and  health.
so what about the formula: eat less + increase activity=weight loss.???
what’s happening (or not happening) there.
it sounds trite, but every day truly is a new beginning.
does that mean it’s time to go off the rails the rest of the day just because you blew it this morning?
3.meanwhile, in a large pot, cook spaghetti for 2 minutes less than package directions indicate.
drinking lowered my resistance to  food cravings and i gave into them over time.
so it is equally as important to eliminate any food that contains the above  mentioned sweeteners as it is to eliminate sugar from your daily intake.
some lucky guest is going to win $250 pilates1901 gift certificate  just for coming!
add celery, onions and garlic; cook, stirring, until softened, about 5 minutes.
the worst soy oil products are margarines and shortenings made from partially hydrogenated soybean oil containing dangerous trans fatty acids.
nutrition bonus: vitamin a (281% daily value), vitamin c (23% dv).
better bet: stick to 1 cup of cider, then switch to  seltzer with lime.
and, if i feel myself waiver, i just take a hard look at  my naked butt in the shower.
all too often we eat whatever shows up–halloween candy, donuts in the break room, or samples in the grocery store.
author:admin help to prevent and cure your holiday hangover… #1.
eating fibrous carbohydrates like fruits and vegetables actually turns your body into a fat burning machine.
these  fats,called omega 3 essential fatty acids, are actually so critical to your  body’s functioning, that it is very difficult to experience any weight  loss without including them in your meal plan.
stay tuned for more info on our winter session of leaner stronger sooner!
salmon seafood, especially fatty fish like salmon, tuna, and mackerel, is an  excellent source of omega-3 fatty acids.
why would  you want to waste one minute doing something unproductive?
making an effort to be mindful no matter what you’re eating can help break the tendency to binge, experts say.
there is strength in community.
going faster makes your lungs and heart work harder to keep up with the intensity, thereby making them stronger and more efficient the more often you do this.
no comments  » don't miss our lss awards party and open house!
enjoy those m&ms® one at a time, mindfully without distractions.
get in under the wire!
that will prepare you mentally not to eat.
stevia products are available in most local natural foods and healthfood stores.
what you eat—or “calories in”—is only one half of the weight-loss equation.
shoot for: at least one cup of low-calorie, low-sodium vegetable soup every day!
you knew there’d be a “but” didn’t you?
december 3rd, 2010 |
when you get sick of spinach, reach for a bunch of arugula, broccoli rabe, or broccolini, a cross between broccoli and chinese kale.
thanks all and see you then!
i worked out every day, for hours a day, sometimes teaching as  many as 3-4 aerobic classes per day, and guess what, i was still too fat!
“plus, it’s a simple way to get your vegetables,” says susan kleiner, phd, rd, author of power eating (human kinetics, 2001).
low fat- high in protein!
making an effort to be mindful no matter what you’re eating can help  break the tendency to binge, experts say.
drinking alcohol dehydrates your body, causing your skin to lose its firmness and dewy appearance.
the only way to reach your ideal weight and stay there is to develop a healthy way of eating that you enjoy and that you can maintain (key word is maintain!)
so, load up on that h2o!
you must develop the habit of eating frequent meals all day long to develop the kind of warp speed metabolism that is going to allow you to get lean and stay lean (no sense in getting there without being able to maintain it right?)
total: 1 hour 20 minutes | to make ahead: prepare through step 4; cool, cover and refrigerate for up to 1 day.
an australian study showed that overweight people who ate fish daily improved their glucose-insulin response.
but grab a couple of small handfuls and you’re easily getting a half cup—nearly 450 calories and 40 grams of fat!
cardio burns calories  right?
there are many tips to avoid midnight snacking.
now, besides staying up after nightfall, people commonly fall asleep with lights on from tvs, computers, other gadgets, and outdoor lights.
the first few days may be a bit of a “detox” (just like a drug) but these symptoms quickly disappear (and so do the pounds!)
researchers at the pennington biomedical research center found that when people ate eggs in the morning, they felt less hungry throughout the day than when breakfast consisted of complex carbohydrates like bagels.
(keep hunger at bay with these yummy snacks in  100-, 150-, 200- and 250-calorie increments.)
when you get into the cardio heart  rate zone, your body will eventually become catabolic, which means it will  start burning muscle for fuel.
but perhaps more importantly (at least this time of year!), research shows that people who are most successful at losing weight eat breakfast every day.
add apples and cook, stirring, until tender, 8 to 10 minutes more.
why not reinvent yourself with thenew body you deserve!
to digest food, your  body closes the valve into the small intestine, where alcohol is most quickly  absorbed, so you’re less likely to get buzzed.
this strategy has been working for sumo wrestlers for years.
intrigued?  call 913 499 7510 or click here to access our  online schedule.
an australian study showed that overweight people who ate fish daily  improved their glucose-insulin response.
you’ve got things to do!
better bet: if you truly want cheese and crackers, limit  yourself to a few—say five crackers (about 80 calories) and top each with  a very thin layer of a cheese spread (think: goat cheese or even cheese ball).
the body is used to getting relaxed late at night and the metabolism also is slow.
you can’t erase  last night’s binge, but youcan aim for a much healthier today!
it is probably much too soon to extrapolate the results of the mice studies to humans, but it is interesting to think about whether weight gain and glucose control is related to when calories are consumed.
meanwhile, cook sausage in a large nonstick skillet over medium heat, stirring with a wooden spoon to break it up, until no longer pink, 5 to 10 minutes.
researchers at the pennington biomedical research center  found that when people ate eggs in the morning, they felt less hungry  throughout the day than when breakfast consisted of complex carbohydrates like  bagels.
“a large apple has 5 grams of fiber, but it’s also nearly  85 percent water, which helps you feel full,” explains elisa zied, rd,  author ofso what can i eat?!
plan for the occasional treat.
in a small bowl, toss cabbage, vinegar, salt to taste, and a pinch of sugar.
lightly coat a 12-by-8-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
there’s nothing like community and shared experience to help you reach your goals.
now the excuse becomes, “i tried  diet and exercise, and it didn’t work for me at all!”
in fact, good old h20 can make us eliminate excess fluid and sodium.
get into the groove 3 days a week at a very nice  price!
that mean’s they win twice- once for achieving their goal  of fat loss and transformation- the 2nd for the trip!
but grab a couple of small handfuls and you’re easily getting a half  cup—nearly 450 calories and 40 grams of fat!
and those first few bites are always the best, so think before you dive in for more.
that  means for every “standard” beer you drink, you could walk briskly  for 10-15 minutes to negate the calories consumed or go without 100 calories of  some other, more nutritious food or drink.
what mattered more than light was timing of meals.
toxins in a little blue, pink and yellow packet many times when people decide to give up sugar, they quickly resort to  artificial sweeteners.
or you could try keeping off the booze through the week and  letting your guard down a bit for only one day on the weekend – it could  work for you.
small, gradual changes are what will work.
there’s an old saying: “no matter how far you’ve gone  down the wrong path, it’s never too late to turn back.”
check out my video with jill tupper, my friend and awesome life coach, who is joining our pff program this session!
so, load up on  that h2o!
add a  small handful of crackers to that and you’re easily at 500 calories.
berries (and other fruits) are also high in antioxidants, which not only help protect you from chronic diseases like cancer but may also help you get more results from your workouts.
add oil to the pan and heat over medium-low heat.
check out my video with jill tupper, my friend and awesome life  coach, who is joining our pff program this session!
you embark on a new fitness routine.
the 130 million americans who  are overweight or obese.
there is no fat in alcohol, but the sugar can be a killer for your diet.
our last year’s winner chose hawaii!
share your holiday drinking tips with others – add it to  the post below.
keep a bag of prewashed  baby spinach in your fridge and toss a handful into soups, salads, pasta  dishes, stir-fries, and sandwiches.
potassium-rich vegetables include spinach, sweet or white potatoes, beet greens, mushrooms, bok choy, parsnips, and tomato products (paste, sauce, or pureed).
many of you know that i have been a self confessed cardio junkie for nearly 30 years.
that’s why i went undercover to discover these super sleuth turkey recipes that are so good, your loved ones will never dream they’re  eatingleftovers.
add turkey, broth, tomato puree, and milk.
click here to purchase!
reduce heat and simmer mixture until broccoli is tender but crisp (about 3 minutes).
yes, nuts of all kinds are full of heart-healthy fats and the various types provide good amounts of other nutrients too (e.g., calcium, folate, selenium, vitamin e).
while this can be daunting at first, you will become accustomed to satisfying your craving with a small treat and you’ll learn when to say “when” and in turn feel more confident in your weight-loss efforts.
don’t spend hours on the machines and put  yourself at risk for failure in the battle against fat.
now, eventually, after all your recently ingested energy is consumed, your body  will look elsewhere for energy to fuel you.
whisk whole eggs, brown sugar, cinnamon, oil, evaporated milk, vanilla and salt in a large bowl until smooth.
americans, truly, don’t realize how much sugar they are consuming in one day.
per serving: 274 cal, 7 g fat (1.6 g sat), 31 g carbs, 106 mg sodium, 3 g fiber, 23 g protein turkey-orange salad 1/2 navel orange 2 tsp extra-virgin olive oil 1 c mixed salad greens, packed 1/3 c (2 oz) skinless roast turkey chunks 2 thin slices red onion, quartered 1.
you may even notice your energy and outlook are  better.
so maybe like me, you over indulged a bit during the holidays.
you and millions of other people are completely confused about what constitutes good nutrition and what is really “bad”.
it takes a village, after all!
if you want a crisp top, uncover it for the last 15 minutes.
and what to eat instead… the holidays are here and with them come a multitude of parties—some  that we’re psyched about, some that we’re obligated to attend.
preheat oven to 375°f.
the digestive system gets overworked and the extra food content disrupts the whole cycle and if you develop a habit of snacking at midnight, your digestion will get thrown out of gear.
sorbitol, saccharin, aspartame and sucrolose are actually worse for you than  sugar itself.
shoot for: at least half a cup daily, or about 30  calories’ worth.
you may sleep  better.
and as long as we are going faster, lets go  longer and really amp up that weight loss for faster results.
it’s all-natural, contains zero calories,  and has a zero glycemic index.
have them—in moderation.
yes, you have been scammed.
when you  consider that water helps the body metabolize stored fat, rid the body of waste  (as in unwanted fat and toxins), and is a natural diuretic and a natural  laxative, no wonder it is an absolute must when fat loss is your goal.
add ragout and toss intermittently for about 2 minutes so the pasta absorbs some of the sauce.
weight watchers and lean cuisine meals and bars almost all contain hydrogenated oil.
it’s an office party
potassium-rich fruits include canned pumpkin (just in time for thanksgiving), papaya, bananas, plantains, and dried fruit including dates, raisins, and prunes.
if you keep off the booze through the week and let your guard  down a bit for only one day on the weekend, it could work for you .
place two  spoons in your freezer for about ten minutes, then hold the back of them your  eyes for about five minutes.
so it is equally as important to eliminate any food that contains the above mentioned sweeteners as it is to eliminate sugar from your daily intake.
and don’t miss our free metabolism 101 workhop on saturday, jan 22nd at 1pm.
that’s why, i am suggesting a little shock therapy to get the new year in gear….
stir in parsley and simmer for 2 minutes.
weight gain and sleep
don’t assume that just because something is healthy it is also  low-cal.
kill the pain pick ibuprofen.
you don’t have to be.
eating instead of sleeping the researchers noticed that the mice exposed to light ate more than half of their calories during normal sleeping hours, and so they went back to the lab to control the time when the mice ate.
if you want to have your fruitcake and eat it, too, try simply controlling portions.
it is the processed and refined wheat and  grains that are causingeveryone to blow up like balloons.
all of these recipes are from a wonderful book called, the simple art of eating
that mean’s they win twice- once for achieving their goal of fat loss and transformation- the 2nd for the trip!
warm food tends to satisfy your appetite better.
also the digestive system that is meant to rest at night does extra work.
stayed tuned for great new fun stuff at pilates 1901 as we delve  into 2012!
people who are “off” sugar, don’t even miss it.
have all your meals in a designated place without distractions (i.e., not  in front of the tv or at your desk in front of your computer).
these chemicals are all toxins to your body (just as artificial sweeteners are) and your liver becomes extremely overwhelmed trying to rid your body of these harmful toxins.
but if you’re trying to be festive with a couple cups of spiced  cider (240 calories), you’re doing just as much damage as you would if  you were having a glass of wine—from a calorie perspective anyway.
if you can’t say itoutloud to your friends and your  family, you won’t get past the first hurdle.
or you could try keeping off the booze through the week and letting your guard down a bit for only one day on the weekend – it could work for you.
here is your fat burning zone, here is your cardio zone.
and when you’re mindlessly munching as you’re mingling, those calories can add up fast!
therefore it is highly likely that you will not have the right amount of breakfast.
yes, you  should eliminate unhealthy fats like hydrogenated oils (sorry, that means no  french fries or doughnuts).
we’re not saying you have to punish your body- quite the contrary!
find the middle ground: somewhere between  following that overly-strict diet and eating everything you want, there is a  point at which you can be both happyand healthy.
how to stop raiding your kid’s trick-or-treat loot minimize your exposure.
that’s why you must declare your intentions  publicly and then enlist the support of your friends and loved ones.
dehydration (a side effect of alcohol, a diuretic) reduces the liquid around blood cells, making your brain shrivel and leading to headaches, dizziness and nausea.
(alternatively, use a pastry bag fitted with a 1/2-inch tip or spread the meringue over the casserole as if you were frosting a cake.)
when brushing your teeth, wash your hands and face, too.
wait until the last minute to buy halloween candy then buy only what you really think you’ll need for the big night.
healthier secret: sweet potatoes need not taste like dessert.
and less calories equals fat loss right?
temptation  becomes much less powerful when you know it is fleeting and can be quelled with  less than you think.
and when  you’re mindlessly munching as you’re mingling, those calories can  add up fast!
shoot for: one to three cups a day of low-fat or fat-free yogurt.
the 130 million americans who are overweight or obese.
i do miss a good red or a cold beer, but for me the trade off is worth the  sacrifice.
if you lose weight without regard to the amount of  fat you have, chances are you will look the same (i.e. love handles, flabby  thighs and arms that continue to wave long after your hand has finished).
it may be that “a calorie is not always a calorie” when the biological clock is upset by exposure to light.
make these foods an integral part of your eating  regimen and you will see some great results in your weight loss efforts.
come and learn how you, like so many other women, can  banish that fat forever and regain your youthful appearance!
boosting your fiber intake is one way to help prevent weight gain—or  even promote weight loss.
hanging near the crudité tray is a great way to keep calories in  check—so long as you stay away from the ranch (or blue cheese) dressing,  which delivers a devastating 150 calories and 16 grams of fat per two  tablespoons.
the size the authorities measure a standard drink in can look a bit of a lame joke to a seasoned and thirsty drinker.
combining hiit training with  resistance work, you get the optimal cardio-strength-fat-loss results  possible.
the following words on a nutritional label mean “sugar” and should probably be avoided: corn sweetener, corn syrup, or corn syrup solids, dehydrated cane juice, dextrin, dextrose, fructose, fruit juice concentrate, glucose, high fructose corn syrup, honey, lactose, maltodextrin, malt syrup, maltose, maple syrup, molasses, raw sugar, rice syrup, saccharose, sucrose, syrup, treacle, turbinado sugar, xylose fortunately for those looking for a lean, defined body, once you stop eating sugar, your addiction will quickly disappear.
and you know who else it is working for?
eat 5-7 well portioned meals each day and you will  see your body burn fat faster than you can say “sumo wrestler.”
questions?  call tina or lisa at 913 499 7510!
eggs are highly respected by dietitians because of their balance of essential amino acids (protein building blocks used by your body to manufacture everything from muscle fibers to brain chemicals).
so, based on this information, most people tend to think that going faster will kick that calorie burn up.
you work yourself up to 45 to 50  minutes and you start to sweat.
we will be closed friday and saturday, dec 24th and 25th for christmas
bake the casserole until heated through and the edges are bubbling, 35 to 45 minutes.
hit the gym you can’t flush out alcohol with exercise, but some people find that a workout makes them feel better, probably due to the feel-good chemicals physical activity releases.
… for some of us, quitting something just because we didn’t do it perfectly is an easy escape route.
the three groups of mice were exposed to the same differing light cycles, but the time when they ate was controlled.
work up a sweat even though being bloated may make you want to do nothing but drown yourself in comfort foods while sprawled out on the sofa, taking time to go on a brisk walk, take acardio tramp class, or circuit train in apilates bootcamp workout to help you sweat out even more sodium and feel lighter on your toes.
most of you have all seen the little diagrams on most cardio equipment.
skip breakfast and eat very little all day long 2.
like everything related to sensible diet, the amount of alcohol you can safely consume in a day according to the health police is very very little.
meringue topping 4 teaspoons dried egg whites (see note), reconstituted according to package directions,or 2 large pasteurized egg whites, at room temperature 1/4 cup granulated sugar 1.
this is something i usually do not recommend, but in the effort to get real to get moving, i am suggesting youget on the scale.
group-1 was exposed to 16 hours of bright light and 8 hours of darkness; group-2 was exposed to 24 hours of bright light; group-3 was exposed to 16 hours of bright light and 8 hours of dim light.
there is nothing to stop you having one or even two drinks a day if you want to.
sprinkle with pecans.
making any food off-limits just increases its allure: you can’t avoid a trigger food your whole life, but you can learn how to eat the foods you binge on in moderation.
to make differentiating between healthy  natural food vs. non foods, just stay away from anything that contains  ingredients on a labelthat you can’t pronounce.
this is especially true if you don’t use  your muscles (do resistance training, like pilates) on a regular basis.
the caffeine makes you feel less tipsy  than you are, so you may not realize when you’ve hit your limit.
while it is parked, it will convert to fat.
other good choices: broth and bananas, which restore the sodium and potassium, respectively, you lost during the night’s frequent bathroom trips.
so, you decided to follow that “give in” step last night and allow yourself a cookie.
there  are many health foods on the market today that are causing people to gain  weight, as well as making it near impossiblefor them to lose weight.
if that doesn’t hook you,  consider this: seafood is an excellent source of ab-friendly protein.
this *post, from kc’s best fat loss program, the pilates fat  loss formula, details the top 8 foods to eat to gid rid of that pooch!
here’s some food for thought: all or nothing thinking is a way to let  yourself off the hook.
most people just can’t seem to get it  through their head that not only don’t they have to spend hours on the  treadmill,but that they shouldn’t.
or, even worse, you may will circle the world of mainstream empty weight loss promises and come back to where you started, more overweight than when you began.
our cardio kettlebells, cardio tramp, cardio sculpt and cardio tramp  classes are all just 29 minutes long!
if you want to have your fruitcake and eat it, too, try simply controlling  portions.
if you still think that going on the next crash diet is the only way to  lose weight than i have some bad news for you: you have a long life of yo-yo  dieting ahead of you.
if you’re going to eat halloween candy (you know you are!), then adjust for it.
our most successful clients are the ones who take the time to write down what they are eating and drinking every day!
our clients  are our proof!
yogurt people who get their calcium from yogurt rather than from other sources may lose more weight around their midsection, according to a recent study published in the international journal of obesity.
alcohol suppresses the t cells the body needs to defend itself, leaving you vulnerable to germs at the bar, exacerbating hangover symptoms.
are you wondering what you are doing wrong or how you will ever be  able to lose the weight you have been desperately trying to lose for so long?
by being  mindful of what is going into your body, you are gaining power over all the  little daily decisions that add up to huge results!
few of us can stick to a diet plan that restricts entire food groups or  relies on one type of food — such as freeze-dried, pre-prepared meals  — as its mainstay.
just keep in mind that your goal, a vibrant, healthy, lean and strong body is not supported by sugar!
make overeating a hassle.
save room for dessert.
and that is  true inevery aspect of life.
most leafy greens are also a  good source of calcium, an essential ingredient for muscle contraction.
you work yourself up to 45 to 50 minutes and you start to sweat.
cerave is another product dr kunin recommends for winter skin.
so now that we have established the difference between weight loss and fat  loss, how can we make sure the weight we lose is fat?
makeup: layer on mascara and line your upper  lids to draw attention away from redness in the whites of your eyes.
transfer to a serving plate.
that’s why you must declare your intentions publicly and then enlist the support of your friends and loved ones.
there’s never been a better time to lose that unwanted belly fat and we can help you do it!
studies have shown that when people give up  their daily “diet drink” (filled withaspartame) they quickly lose  up to 10 pounds just by eliminating the consumption of this toxic sweetener.
apples also contain quercetin, a compound shown to help fight certain cancers, reduce cholesterol damage, and promote healthy lungs.
seal the bag, pressing out as much air as possible.
if cookies are your downfall, it might be too tempting to keep in your  house—but you can go our for a really good one (great harvest bakery) or  pick some up on the way to a party so you don’t take them home.
add a handful of fresh chopped fruit for flavor and extra fiber.
it’s a great time of year to get the excess out of your closets!
we’re not saying you have to punish your body- quite  the contrary!
but you must reduce the bad and increase the good.
and in between now and then we have to survive a myriad of  holiday parties, each  one providing it’s own eating and drinking  challenges.
through observation, they learn that it is possible to balance eating for nourishment with eating for enjoyment.
the dim illumination was akin to having a portable tv in a bedroom.
remember, it’s not your food.
if you can find them, add boysenberries, gooseberries, and black currants to the mix for excitement.
repackage cookies in single-portion bags (or pay more for individually portioned snacks); wrap leftover slices of lasagna individually in foil and freeze.
drain in a colander to remove excess fat.
post in the blog space below or emailtina@pilates1901.com few of us realize the degree to which our sleeping patterns affect our weight.
cook, tossing, for about 2 minutes or until it sizzles again.
at  pilates1901 we know it works.
don’t just think your goals, say them loud and say them proud!
upload your holiday survival guide here
then we quit eating healthy and go back to the way we  were eating before.
if you like the healthy treats that sometimes show up at holiday parties, that’s great!
“what is the difference,”  you say?
the more stops you introduce in getting a food—such as needing to open a package or having to thaw something frozen—the more opportunities you have to ask, “am i really hungry?”
if you burn muscles as an energy source, you also burn up your potential to  burn more calories in the future.
so the next time you think you don’t  have time to cook, drive past the drive thru and into the grocery salad bar  instead.
after that, you will probably be making sly glances at the vending machine in the corner of the pub and checking through your loose change.
eggs are highly  respected by dietitians because of their balance of essential amino acids  (protein building blocks used by your body to manufacture everything from  muscle fibers to brain chemicals).
almonds these delicious and versatile nuts contain filling protein and fiber, not  to mention vitamin e, a powerful antioxidant.
people who are  “on” sugar crave it all the time.
surprising calorie bomb: mixed nuts.
heat in the microwave for 30 seconds or until warm.
cover tightly with microwave-safe plastic wrap and cook for 2 minutes on high.
author:admin we all  have a not-so-forgiving little black dress to get into for new  year’s eve.
yes, artificial sweeteners cause weight gain by disrupting your body’s natural hormones.
it’s for every person who wants  to achieve a lean, slender and toned physique (did i just describe every person  on the planet?)
so  avoid these forms of toxic soy at all costs.
sorry folks, but it is not true.
heat oil, curry powder, ginger, and salt to taste in a pot over medium-high heat for 1 minute or until sizzling.
you and approximately hundreds of thousands of other people who have purchased pre-packaged“health” foods.
just be careful not to turn it into punishment for eating or penance for eating something “bad.”
well, one of the nasty  culprits causing millions ofpeople to pack on the pounds is hydrogenated oil.
the fun-sized treats are the perfect size for a few mindful bites of heaven.
you may not be able to.
shoot for: an apple (or two) a day.
add a few dashes of hot sauce if desired.
this type of cardio has loads of benefits.
better bet: if you truly want cheese and crackers, limit yourself to a few—say five crackers (about 80 calories) and top each with a very thin layer of a cheese spread (think: goat cheese or even cheese ball).
we call this the eat-repent-repeat cycle.
take it easy on yourself as you learn how to be a new, improved,  healthier you.
so there you have it!
well, the other job of your liver is to burn body fat and if it is too busy ridding youof toxic overload, it has no time (or energy) to get rid of your unwanted fat.
drink a  minimum of ½ of your bodyweight in ounces of filtered water each day to  ensure that your body rids itself of the unwanted fat youare aiming to lose.
… for some  of us, quitting something just because we didn’t do it perfectly is an  easy escape route.
and, if i feel myself waiver, i just take a hard look at my naked butt in the shower.
by being mindful of what is going into your body, you are gaining power over all the little daily decisions that add up to huge results!
author:admin are you one of the millions of people who have spent countless  amounts of money and a ridiculous amount of time on a diet or exercise program  that proved absolutely no results?
this disrupts the metabolic cycle and the additional food does not get digested by the time you are up in the morning ready for breakfast.
there was a brief moment in time when i thought dr. robert atkins was going to beelected president.
here is your fat burning zone, here is your  cardio zone.
post it to your  facebook page and share the love!
no comments » help for hangovers… avoid the calories and the misery december 29th, 2010 |
eat the bulk of your caloric intake in a large heavy meal, filled with complex carbohydrates in the  evening 3.
this simple exercise in  accountability makes all the difference in attitude and action.
since we’ve lost muscle mass our metabolism is slower.
interval  cardio is short bursts of high intensity work immediately followed by brief  periods of rest, for 20 to 30 minutes.
carbohydrates falsely accused
well, i assure you it’s no coincidence.
there is nothing to stop you having one or even two alcoholic drinks a day if you want to.
soup eaters also maintained, on average, a total weight loss of 16 pounds after  one year.
an empty altoids tin will hold your daily dose perfectly.
then we quit eating healthy and go back to the way we were eating before.
no comments » leftover smeftover!
the probiotic bacteria in most yogurts  help keep your digestive system healthy, which translates into a lower  incidence of gas, bloating, and constipation, which can keep your tummy looking  flat.
but if you’re trying to be festive with a couple cups of spiced cider (240 calories), you’re doing just as much damage as you would if you were having a glass of wine—from a calorie perspective anyway.
it gets rid of dryness and flakyness and repairs and heals your dry skin.
author: admin can i drink and diet?
you must have that moment to make good choices.
if you often feel like you are starving all day no matter how much food  you’ve consumed, chances are you may be severely dehydrated.
but you can still get your gift certificates through dec 31st!
float your bloat while sodium contributes to bloating, water does not.
that’s because fiber traps food particles and shuttles them out of your system before they’re fully digested.
the following words on a nutritional label mean “sugar” and  should probably be avoided:  corn sweetener, corn syrup, or corn syrup  solids, dehydrated cane juice, dextrin, dextrose, fructose, fruit juice  concentrate, glucose, high fructose corn syrup, honey, lactose, maltodextrin,  malt syrup, maltose, maple syrup, molasses, raw sugar, rice syrup, saccharose,  sucrose, syrup, treacle, turbinado sugar, xylose fortunately for those looking for a lean, defined body, once you stop  eating sugar, your addiction will quickly disappear.
if you’re consuming 2,000 calories per day, aim to increase your fiber by 16 grams.
click here  for more information!
can anyone say yo-yo diet?
of course you can there is nothing to stop you having one or even two alcoholic drinks a day  if you want to.
you’ll see the puffyness decrease and look more awake.
our combo mat/cardio and equipment class  membership rocks!
add greens, turkey, and onion.
avoid energy drinks as mixers, too.
surprising calorie bomb: veggies with ranch dressing.
bring a friend -it’s free!
we have less muscle and burn less calories than we did when we stepped foot in the gym.
so, allow yourself a small portion of something “bad” that you really love now and again instead of telling yourself it’s off-limits for good.
although the causes aren’t quite clear, experts believe fluctuating hormone and blood sugar levels may play a role.
apples also contain  quercetin, a compound shown to help fight certain cancers, reduce cholesterol  damage, and promote healthy lungs.
no comments » top 10 nutrition mistakes that are keeping you fat january 18th,  2011 |
clean up when brushing your teeth, wash  your hands and face, too.
rewards don’t  have to cost a dime — they can be as simple as allowing yourself time to  read a chapter of a favorite author or enjoying a long bath.
combining hiit training with resistance work, you get the optimal cardio-strength-fat-loss results possible.
it also causes blood flow to be directed away  from your skin and to your vital organs, so your skin has poorer circulation.
i’ve successfully lost a lot of weight using both strategies; moderation and total abstinence.
not only will you be saving yourself from a myriad of health problems (like decreased thyroid function and hormone disruption) you will also see a dramatic loss in unwanted body fat.
so avoid these forms of toxic soy at all costs.
and all without feeling deprived!
don’t torture yourself with exercise.
the same goes for  your snacks at home: stash the chips inside a cupboard and keep the apples out  on the counter.
i’ve successfully lost a lot of weight  using both strategies; moderation and total abstinence.
you don’t stay in the high cardio range long enough to burn muscle.
so the only benefits to gain from an alcoholic drink are those related to alcohol as a relaxant.
find out how you can learn to break these bad habits and lose the  fat you want.
per serving: 360 cal, 6.3 g fat (1.4 g sat), 50 g carbs, 300 mg sodium, 9 g fiber, 26 g protein turkey-spinach lasagna 1 1/4 c fat-free ricotta cheese 1 egg 1/4 tsp ground black pepper 1 tbsp minced garlic 1 tbsp dried oregano 1 can (28 oz) crushed tomatoes 6 oven-ready lasagna noodles (half of a 12 oz box) 3 c (3 oz) finely chopped or torn baby spinach leaves 1 1/2 c (8 oz) finely chopped skinless roast turkey 3/4 c shredded provolone cheese 1.
here’s 5 amazingly creative meal  options: herbed turkey ragout with spaghetti 1/3 c minced carrot
our most successful clients are the ones who take the time to write  down what they are eating and drinking every day!
beware: if you grab five  of those little 1-inch cubes, you’ve just housed 345 calories.
homey’s there’s nothing like community and shared experience to help  you reach your goals.
stevia products are available in most local natural foods  and healthfood stores.
most women retain water for several days, or for even a week or two, before menstruation.
in a small bowl, beat ricotta, egg, and pepper with a fork until well blended.
our pilates fat loss formula has worked to give women just  like you and me awesome results- results they had all but given up hope of  achieving!
protein not only fuels your muscles, it also helps stabilize your blood sugar and prevent hunger.
the caffeine makes you feel less tipsy than you are, so you may not realize when you’ve hit your limit.
your heart and lungs get the  required demand put upon them to make them stronger.
if seafood’s not your  thing, you can get your omega-3′s from flaxseed (grind and sprinkle on  your cereal) or walnuts.
a study published in thejournal of agricultural and food chemistry found that the red delicious, cortland, and northern spy varieties had the highest antioxidant activity.
sleep late and you just might bypass any post-party  pain.
people who are “on” sugar crave it all the time.
at pilates 1901 we have seen to it that you have many  options to make the most out of your time!
a high quality omega 3 supplement also works wonders for your body and helps to burn off unwanted fat.
start cracking “eggs are my go-to hangover cure.
have a trick or two up your sleeve?
the more stops you introduce in getting a food—such as needing to  open a package or having to thaw something frozen—the more opportunities  you have to ask, “am i really hungry?”
active time: 50 minutes |
spread the mixture in the prepared baking dish.
when you get on that treadmill, bike, or elliptical trainer,  your body begins to use energy.
the holidays are here and with them come a multitude of parties—some that we’re psyched about, some that we’re obligated to attend.
so if you drink even a  moderate amount of alcohol while trying to lose weight, your body is likely to  thank you by slapping lard deposits in all your bumpiest storage facilities.
january 14th, 2011 |
glad i don’t have to bother anymore!”
you exercise your heart rate  recovery (hrr) which trains your body to be able to recover from intense  exercise quicker.
if you intend to drink and diet, your alcohol consumption will be the  square root of not very much at all.
going faster makes your  lungs and heart work harder to keep up with the intensity, thereby making them  stronger and more efficient the more often you do this.
does this sound like the kind of long term health plan you should be following?
reduce heat to a simmer and cook until tender, 10 to 15 minutes.
many people  actually mistake hunger for dehydration and eat tons more calories than they  actually need when all they really needed to do was drink some water!
i do agree that reducing the amount of carbohydrates in your meal plan will  help you loseweight and lean down.
leafy greens their cancer-preventing carotenoids won’t help shrink your waistline,  but their low calorie count definitely will.
remember the next time you think you’ll save a few extra calories by  skipping breakfast, you’re really just sabotaging yourself and setting  yourself up for irresistible cravings later in the day.
as we age, our metabolism  drops.
doing an exercise video a just twice this week is a triumph if you didn’t do it at all last week.
set aside while you make the topping.
abstinence has meant that i  always have my wits about me regarding my daily food choices and i am always  motivated enough to exercise and enjoy my healthy lifestyle.
dying a sweet death it is no longer a secret or even a shock to most people that refined sugar  causes weight gain and is one of the leading causes of obesity in the world.
coat one side of a 14-inch-long piece of aluminum foil with cooking spray.
so, with that dress as my goal, these 10 tips from eating well, should help us slip into it dec 31st, “spanx free” and wear it happily.
women should aim for about 5 to 6 8-ounce cups each day (you can add one or two cups of skim milk, up to one cup of 100% fruit juice, and even a few cups of coffee or tea can also count towards meeting your daily water quota).
the bottom line hunger can strike at all odd hours and when it does late at night, no matter what time it is, the hunger pangs refuse to ebb.
cut a 1/2-inch hole in one corner.
stevia products are great for beverages, soft foods, and baking.
wine is not the worst choice for a weight control diet and if you can bear a spritzer of half wine and half flat or fizzy water; you can double your drink, but limit your alcohol.
yes, nuts of  all kinds are full of heart-healthy fats and the various types provide good  amounts of other nutrients too (e.g., calcium, folate, selenium, vitamin e).
veggie soup researchers at pennsylvania state university found that people who ate broth-based (or low-fat cream-based) soups two times a day were more successful in losing weight than those who ate the same amount of calories in snack food.
apples a 2003 study in the journal nutrition found that overweight women  who consumed three apples or pears a day for three months lost more weight than  their counterparts who were fed a similar diet with oat cookies instead of  fruits.
at each, include a little protein for additional staying power.
start cracking “eggs are my go-to  hangover cure.
berries most are loaded with fiber, every dieter’s best friend.
it is no longer a secret or even a shock to most people that refined sugar causes weight gain and is one of the leading causes of obesity in the world.
after that, you will  probably be making sly glances at the vending machine in the corner of the pub  and checking through your loose change.
there’s an old saying: “no matter how far you’ve gone down the wrong path, it’s never too late to turn back.”
when you go slow and keep your heart rate in the “fat burning”  zone, your heart and lungs no longer have to work as hard, so they aren’t  getting stronger anymore.
no comments » so called “healthy” holiday calorie bombs to avoid….
call 913 499 7510 for more information!
sumo wrestlers make a concerted effort to get fat for their sport.
if you consume more sugar than your body needs, your clever body will plan to park it somewhere in case you need it later.
you still can’t make like an unrestrained  doberman in the butcher shop, but you can have a few drinks to unwind and still  manage to lose your unwanted fat.
the problem is, it can also be unhealthy and downright  unsexy too!
that is where many people are mistaken.
place sweet potatoes in a large saucepan and cover with water.
wonderful sources of protein are grass fed meats, free range poultry, organic eggs, wild fish, and organic raw nuts.
our last year’s winner chose  hawaii!
coat an 8-inch-square (or similar 2-quart) broiler-safe baking dish (see tip) with cooking spray.
have you ever purchased the foods that someone claimed to be “guaranteed to make you lose weight” only to see the scale go up instead of down?
some lucky guest is going to win $250 pilates1901 gift certificate just for coming!
i’ve known girls to drink rum and diet coke in the misguided  belief that the diet coke is saving them enough calories to justify the sugar  saturated, calorie laden rum component.
this article by jennifer scott will help you understand the connection between weight-loss difficulties and this mind frame and provide steps on how to lose weight and avoid all or nothing thinking.
chill a thin body is a body in balance.
it has a more reasonable 50 calories and 3 grams of fat.
choose fresh or canned products made without sodium or added sugar, and aim for 2 to 2.5 cups a day.
beat in granulated sugar in a slow, steady stream.
the good news is while we can’t completely sidestep mother nature altogether, these 4 diet and lifestyle tweaks can help us minimize bloat and help our bodies get rid of excess water weight in no time flat.
hydrate: first things first – drink  water!
wild salmon, though pricey, contains more omega-3 fatty acids than farm-raised.
similarly, gin and tonic has a sneaky  number of calories but a lot of these are in the tonic water.
it would be impossible to pick up any diet or weight loss book without it saying somewhere “drink 8-10 cups of water each day.”
research indicates that the composition of their cell walls may help  reduce the absorption of all of their fat, making them an extra-lean nut.
besides having the proper diet, which is the key to losing fat, we look to exercise to supplement this goal.
master mixing diet soda empties out of your  stomach more quickly than regular, so you’ll get woozy faster if you use  it.
mash potatoes with flour in a bowl.
posted in  fat loss |
i just don’t want my  clients to make the same mistakes i did!
questions?  call 913 499 7510!
one cup of spinach contains only about 40 calories, while a cup of broccoli has 55 calories and satisfies 20 percent of your day’s fiber requirement.
mint soothes your stomach, and honey and fructose (fruit sugar) help the body metabolize alcohol faster.
we say nearly nothing because there is a$10 entry fee that goes to benefit save,inc for all swapper shoppers.
we top it with an airy, slightly sweet meringue.
veggie soup researchers at pennsylvania state university found that people who ate  broth-based (or low-fat cream-based) soups two times a day were more successful  in losing weight than those who ate the same amount of calories in snack food.
a great alternative to  sugar and artificial sweeteners is the supplement stevia.
protein not only fuels your muscles, it also helps stabilize  your blood sugar and prevent hunger.
weight watchers  and lean cuisine meals and bars almost all contain hydrogenated oil.
pilates 1901 and the leaner stronger sooner fat loss program’s holiday eating recipes continue with this wonderful t hanksgiving sweet potato meringue recipe.
so, based on this information, most people tend to think that going faster  will kick that calorie burn up.
but what makes almonds most interesting is their ability to block  calories.
well if you lived in asia you would quickly see that most asians eat soy in small quantities and in the form of old fashioned fermented soy (such as miso, tempeh, natto, shoyu and tamari) not the processed, toxic soy that is used in so many vegetarian type products and weight loss products on the market today.
believing that dieting is the only way to lose weight
and to make sure your skin isn’t looking
so if  your number one goal was to get fat this is exactly what you could do: 1.
so now you  end up having to domore cardio to equal the calories burned when you first  began this exercise routine.
awesome  achievement at our fall 2010 leaner stronger sooner awards party and open house.
but if you try to do too much too soon, the changes will last only  days.
have the last meal 3 hours before sleeping and top it with a light salad so that there is enough fiber in the body along with a lot of water content.
and then this morning … you polished off the package for breakfast.
by using turkey sausage instead of pork, we cut the fat content from 19 grams to 4.
you may be haunted by all the candy in the house, leading to a full-blown chocolate binge, sugar hangover, and vows to do better tomorrow.
break or cut orange half into small chunks and place in a mixing bowl.
post yours below so everyone can benefit!
the probiotic bacteria in most yogurts help keep your digestive system healthy, which translates into a lower incidence of gas, bloating, and constipation, which can keep your tummy looking flat.
boosting your fiber intake is one way to help prevent weight gain—or even promote weight loss.
try a moderate combo of cardio and core work!
sweet potato casserole 2 1/2 pounds sweet potatoes (about 3 medium), peeled and cut into 2-inch chunks 2 large eggs 2 tablespoons brown sugar 1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon 1 tablespoon canola oil 1 cup low-fat evaporated milk 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 8-ounce can crushed pineapple, undrained 1/2 cup chopped pecans, toasted (see tip)
missed the bird recipe?
january 13th, 2011 |  author:admin tired of that tube around your midsection?
now is the time to forget the notion that more is better when it comes to cardio.
when what you really crave is considered “bad,” you feel guilty for even wanting it and deprived because you can’t have it.
come and learn how you, like so many other women, can banish that fat forever and regain your youthful appearance!
many of you know that i have been a self confessed cardio junkie for nearly  30 years.
come to our metabolism 101 workshop on saturday, january 21st at 1pm!
* source: fitness magazine #1.
however, that’s the sad reality.
broil until lightly browned, watching carefully to prevent burning, 30 to 90 seconds.
that’s because fiber traps food particles and  shuttles them out of your system before they’re fully digested.
so, with that dress as my goal, these 10 tips from eating well, should help us slip into it dec 31st, “spanx free”  and  wear it happily.
we love fage  greek yogurt!