i love the  heavier flavour in my coffee.
some people choose one form of sugar over another for various health or nutrition reasons.
stevia i thought i'd add this less common sweet selection that is gaining acceptance.
stevia sweeteners can be found in many health food stores, or even grown in your own garden.
turbinado sugar another name for raw sugar, mentioned above.
a part of the new york times company.
any added benefit from the extra molasses in either brown or raw sugar is pretty negligible, considering the small amounts added to your drinks.
- about.com - food & drink - coffee / tea coffee / tea search - coffee / tea - brewing basics - recipes - equipment & gifts discuss in my forum would sugar by any other name be as sweet?
produced by bees, it's a very natural form of sweetener that  requires next to no processing before use.
what exactly is the difference between white and brownsugar, and what the heck is "turbinado" sugar?
the differences between them are slight.
white sugar is processed from sugar cane to have  the molasses removed, and then it's filtered, crystalized and dried.
you can get white sugar in regular granulated form, or finer ground as icing sugar or confectioner's sugar.
though many a good coffee connoisseur takes their brew strong and black, adding a bit of something sweet is a practice enjoyed by many.
stevia sweeteners  can be found in many health food stores, or even grown in your own garden.
brown sugar honey one lump or two?
stevia i thought i'd add this less common sweet selection that is  gaining acceptance.
powdered sugar isn't typically used for simple beverage sweetening.
so it has its natural molasses content intact.
it's actually an herbal product that is far sweeter than sugar.
raw sugar raw sugar is very similar to brown sugar, except this is sugar that hasn't been processed into white.
some people choose one form of sugar over another for  various health or nutrition reasons.
liquid honey will crystalize over  time, but whipped honey will remain soft (like butter) indefinately.
white sugar white sugar is the most common sweetener used in tea or coffee.
it's lighter than brown sugar in  flavour, but the texture is more coarse (almost like kosher salt).
white sugar white sugar is the most common sweetener used in tea or  coffee.
what exactly is the difference between white and  brownsugar, and what the heck is "turbinado" sugar?
honey of course, honey isn't a kind of sugar, but it's a popular sweet touch  nonetheless.
liquid honey will crystalize over time, but whipped honey will remain soft (like butter) indefinately.
white sugar is processed from sugar cane to have the molasses removed, and then it's filtered, crystalized and dried.
see more about: - how much caffeine is in coffee, tea, cola & other drinks… - high tea vs. afternoon tea - the joy of soy - starbucks caffeine contents - chicory
i love the heavier flavour in my coffee.
raw sugar raw sugar is very similar to  brown sugar, except this is sugar that hasn't been processed into white.
by category - sugar - sweeteners - white sugar - brown sugar - honey - preparation & recipes - coffee basics - tea basics - reviews - food recipes / pairings - advanced coffee - advanced tea - tisanes / herbal teas - caffeine in coffee / tea - coffee / tea & health - glossary of terms - history & culture - the beverage industry coffee / tea - about.com - food & drink - coffee / tea - cream, sugar and more - different kinds of sugar for your coffee or tea> also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - food & recipe database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
i have heard that a piece of white bread in the container will keep your  brown sugar soft.
brown sugar brown sugar is my personal favorite.
any added benefit from the extra molasses  in either brown or raw sugar is pretty negligible, considering the small  amounts added to your drinks.
i have heard that a piece of white bread in the container will keep your brown sugar soft.
other names for raw sugar are muscovado and demerara sugar.
it's made by adding the molasses back to regular  white sugar, which makes it much moister and more prone to clumping than white  sugar.
these are not literally identical, but they are the products produced at different stages of sugar processing.
so it  has its natural molasses content intact.
other  names for raw sugar are muscovado and demerara sugar.
related resources related articles - artificial sweeteners - flavoured syrups - sweeteners - how to sweeten coffee & tea with sugar alternatives, stevia, h... - refined versus natural sugar - family nutrition - liquid sweeteners - how to sweeten iced drinks - sweetening iced coffee / t... - spiced sugar recipe - how to make spiced brown sugar for coffee, tea & spic... - sugars and natural and artificial sweeteners - being vegetarian related searches natural molasses coffee connoisseur course honey whipped honey liquid honey demerara sugar explore coffee / tea must reads most popular - caffeine in coffee / tea - espresso drinks - best green tea types - best chai recipes - tea sandwich recipes
the botanical name isstevia rebaudiana bertoni.
powdered sugar isn't typically used for  simple beverage sweetening.
these are not literally  identical, but they are the products produced at different stages of sugar  processing.
produced by bees, it's a very natural form of sweetener that requires next to no processing before use.
it's actually an herbal product that is far sweeter than  sugar.
from sean paajanen, former about.com guide see more about: - sugar - sweeteners - white sugar - brown sugar - honey one lump or two?
it's made by adding the molasses back to regular white sugar, which makes it much moister and more prone to clumping than white sugar.
it's lighter than brown sugar in flavour, but the texture is more coarse (almost like kosher salt).
honey of course, honey isn't a kind of sugar, but it's a popular sweet touch nonetheless.
though many a good coffee  connoisseur takes their brew strong and black, adding a bit of something sweet  is a practice enjoyed by many.
you can get white sugar in regular granulated form, or finer ground as  icing sugar or confectioner's sugar.