thanks for helping others.
all help would be greatly appreciated, sincerely sarah ttstharrington@hotmail.com pls email the above to communicate any helpful tips thanks, sarah stevia is an all natural sweetener that comes from a plant and is a great alternative!
i was honestly a little surprised, but of course pleased!
it would definitely be an eye-opening experience for me.
thanks friend for the share.
and if you  think this challenge sounds like a daunting task then right there is my proof  that we really are sweetener-obsessed after all.
but i am a firm believer in cutting out treats most of the time.
it is a plant that has been around for a long time, but the way it is being processed and used (and marketed) is “new.”
and following are some  resources and meal ideas to help you along the way!
aside from preferring the added flavor of sweeteners i think we might have a mental obsession with it as well.
whenever i fix my girls oatmeal i always drizzle a little honey on it before adding the cinnamon and raisins, yet i admit i’ve never even tried serving it without any honey at all.
this one will be hard though!!
i enjoy a brownie or a cupcake once in a while, but i hardly ever have those things on hand!
i have a degree in health science and am pretty passionate about health.
i’ll be sure to visit again soon.
whenever i fix  my girls oatmeal i always drizzle a little honey on it before adding the  cinnamon and raisins, yet i admit i’ve never even tried serving it  without any honey at all.
the hardest one is probably going to be store-bought bread.
as i’ve said for every mini-pledge it is up to you if you want to  join our weekly challenge and it’s also of course your decision if you  want to sign up for the entire week or just for a day or two.
abstaining from highly processed junk really gaveour palates an adjustment and now just a little bit of sweetness seems to go a long way.
so what better way to learn how to reduce your consumption  of sweeteners than to completely live without them for a few days?
i’ll do it for the week.
enjoy your holiday weekend!
why would you tell people to not use this?
i make my husband’s tea with sugar and of course when i make him desserts.
michael pollan (who inspired us to do all of this) says innovation in food is not a good thing!
i just found your blog recently and am loving it.
so what better way to learn how to reduce your consumption of sweeteners than to completely live without them for a few days?
i have a very dry mouth since i have a partial.
i caved early in the day when i was so dry i could not stand it anymore.
it is crazy how much sugar is added in food you wouldn’t guess.
this is the perfect pledge to try on a smaller scale because i would much rather everyone give this a chance rather than not do it at all.
it has only recently been approved in the u.s. and is still banned in some countries.
so if i was substituting 1/2 cup applesauce for 1/2 cup oil in say a fruit bread recipe, would that same 1/2 cup also count for replacing 1/2 cup of the sugar as well or should i use a full cup of applesauce?
the only type they should stay away from is truvia because it is mixed with an artificial sweetener.
i don’t actually consume many added sugars — and most would be very easy for me to cut out, as they’re generally just a little added treat anyway.
as  i’ve said a thousand times before, no matter what sweetener you chose  (natural, organic, raw, etc.)…a sugar is a sugar and it should always be  used in moderation.
and if you think this challenge sounds like a daunting task then right there is my proof that we really are sweetener-obsessed after all.
i am talking about all added sweeteners even including honey and maple syrup.
so thank you for encouraging people to get their lives in control and to stop eating so much sugar…
by 100 days of real food, on may  27th, 2011
it blows my mind looking through cookbooks when i see recipe after recipe for things like pancakes, soups, and sauces that call for a tablespoon or even a teaspoon of sugar…is such a small quantity even necessary?
and what do you know…my 4-year-old gobbled it down like it was the same bowl of oatmeal i’ve been fixing her for years.
i’ll opt in and take it day-by-day.
in the 10 ways to sweeten without sugar, it suggests using applesauce in place of sugar, however i know it can also be used in place of oil.
pin it knowing our society’s obsession with all things sweet i have a  feeling this could be the most difficult“real food” mini-pledge  yet.
and then at  the grocery store they sell product after product, even savory items like bread  and crackers, that can’t make it on the shelves without being sweetened.
i am looking at every opportunity to achieve the goal like putting lemon or orange slices in my ice water, but i am falling short a lot.
articles regarding sweeteners: experts say sugar is dangerous & bad for your health is sugar toxic?
(especially the 100% whole wheat breads — they overcome the supposed bitterness of the whole wheat flour with sugar… so annoying.)
recipe: whole-wheat cinnamon raisin bread (for bread machine)  » mini-pledge week 12: no sweeteners
i don’t eat much refined sugar, and don’t keep it in my house, but i sweeten tea, granola, yogurt, and toast with way too much honey or maple syrup, so hopefully a purge will help me cut back in the long run.
this is the  perfect pledge to try on a smaller scale because i would much rather everyone  give this a chance rather than not do it at all.
i want to lose some weight (go from 210 to 190) by eliminating my refined sugar intake and reducing my fruit intake to those with low levels of natural sugar eg. berries.
but don’t feel discouraged because even if you only join us for a day or two, i promise it will still be an eye-opening experience proving just how sugar-obsessed our society really is.
i’m in for the week.
a guide for at least moral support would be very helpful in order to help be consistent with meeting up to my goal.
name (required) email (will not be published) (required)
just me – all of us without sugar for a week could get very ugly!
i have a feeling i’ll be eating a lot of naturally sweet fruit to conquer my cravings….off to have a watermelon smoothie.
so after a little mental struggle on if i should or  shouldn’t “roll the dice” by leaving out the sweetener all  together i decided to add extra cinnamon just in case it could help make up for  the loss of honey.
10 ways to sweeten food without sugar real food mini-pledge week 9: no refined sweeteners sweeteners 101 what is the healthiest sugar?
i just don’t add sweeteners to most things, at least for myself.
so, does this mean chocolate is completely out?
all help would be greatly appreciated, sincerely sarah
website you can use these html tags              notify me of followup comments via e-mail.
or, subscribe without commenting.
and i admit i am just as guilty as the next person with my big ol’ sweet tooth, although my taste buds have definitely changed – for the better – since taking our100 days of real food pledge.
i’ve got frozen, no-sugar added berries and plain yogurt, so i can make plenty of smoothies and not feel deprived.
i have been doing this already for 10 days and plan on continuing for at least another 10 days.
aside from preferring the added flavor of sweeteners i think we might have  a mental obsession with it as well.
and what do you know…my 4-year-old gobbled it down  like it was the same bowl of oatmeal i’ve been fixing her for years.
put it in writing and make it official!
how many times have you sprinkled a little  sugar onto your dish or into a recipe without even trying it first?
and i admit i am just as guilty as the next person with my big ol’ sweet  tooth, although my taste buds have definitely changed – for the better  – since taking our100 days of real food pledge.
it is amazing where sweeteners natural & unnatural are hidden in our lives.
cutting out the honey will be the most difficult…..even the great bread i now use from great harvest has honey.
i have significantly reduced the amount of sweets i eat over the past few months anyway, but am continuously horrified to find sugar or corn syrup in all kinds of foods where it doesn’t belong.
my family already rarely eats refined sweeteners.
i’m going to try one meal at a time and see how it goes.
i know this one is very hard and meant to open our eyes to hidden things sneaking in to our normal day & our diet.
sweetener-free recipes and meal ideas: caprese salad
just the  other day i decided to put this little philosophy to the test.
it blows my mind looking through cookbooks when i see recipe after recipe  for things like pancakes, soups, and sauces that call for a tablespoon or even  a teaspoon of sugar…is such a small quantity even necessary?
so after a little mental struggle on if i should or shouldn’t “roll the dice” by leaving out the sweetener all together i decided to add extra cinnamon just in case it could help make up for the loss of honey.
i would like to be part of this march 2 would be my start date (if that is possible).
and i am not just referring to white sugar and otherrefined sweeteners, which we already tackled a few weeks ago.
i’ll do my best, though!)
we don’t add sweeteners to anything but there are some recipes that we cook that use them.
i am not discouraged though.
just found out yesterday i am a type 1 diabetic.
how many times have you sprinkled a little sugar onto your dish or into a recipe without even trying it first?
our society is not only emotionally addicted to sugar, but it is physically addicting!
i’m going to take this one day by day (opting out for a family birthday later in the week) and see how i do.
thanks for the inspiration!
i do help a guide for at least moral support to be consistent with this .
i could use plain baking soda i suppose.
we do use honey, agave, and pure maple syrup in treats and on our occasional pancake nights.
just curious how you might alter your cinnamon raisin bread to not have honey … what’s so bad about stevia??
i’ll give it a shot!
baby is too little to cut it out of her formula.
and then at the grocery store they sell product after product, even savory items like bread and crackers, that can’t make it on the shelves without being sweetened.
there’s added sugar in just about all of them, even the “healthiest” ones.
i never understood why some people take strawberries and dip them in sugar; strawberries are incredibly sweet to me just naturally!
and i have never felt or looked better!
so here is next week’s mini-pledge, which starts on monday: mini-pledge week 12: may 30 – june 5 – avoid  all added sweeteners including, but not limited to: white sugar, brown sugar,  raw sugar, honey, maple syrup, date sugar, maple sugar, sucanat, splenda,  stevia, agave, fruit juice concentrate, corn syrup, high-fructose corn syrup,  brown rice syrup, and cane juice.
i’ve been needing to do this, anyway.
so, i’m facing this same life change anyway…
i  was honestly a little surprised, but of course pleased!
found out there is sugar in lawry’s seasoned salt, which we use a lot when we grill.
why, oh why does this have to begin on memorial day?
and following are some resources and meal ideas to help you along the way!
are your choc./peanutbutter powerballs alright though?
this is going to be hard, but i’m willing to give it a shot!
this challenge will be a good exercise in reading labels to ferret out more of those hidden added sweeteners.
i’m going to join for 2 days.
abstaining from highly  processed junk really gaveour palates an adjustment and now just a little bit  of sweetness seems to go a long way.
my dry mouth gel (sorbitol).
if those go well, i’ll try for the other 8.
i make a chicken recipe that uses brown sugar, but i’ll just skip that one this week.
oh, and i’ve got a weekend in vegas scheduled during this time…
i’ve done a great job in cutting white sugar and artificial sweeteners from my diet.
so here is next week’s mini-pledge, which starts on monday: mini-pledge week 12: may 30 – june 5 – avoid all added sweeteners including, but not limited to: white sugar, brown sugar, raw sugar, honey, maple syrup, date sugar, maple sugar, sucanat, splenda, stevia, agave, fruit juice concentrate, corn syrup, high-fructose corn syrup, brown rice syrup, and cane juice.
i think i’ll take this one day by day.
i  am talking about all added sweeteners even including honey and maple syrup.
my family will be doing this challenge!
amazing easy to follow article with some reallyuseful information – that’s why i’ve bookmarked your site.
wow, this would be a really hard one.
only have treats once in a while…
but don’t feel discouraged because even if you only join us for a  day or two, i promise it will still be an eye-opening experience proving just  how sugar-obsessed our society really is.
as i’ve said for every mini-pledge it is up to you if you want to join our weekly challenge and it’s also of course your decision if you want to sign up for the entire week or just for a day or two.
i personally struggled to lose weight after my first baby and believe i eventually got into the best shape of my life after baby’s 2, 3 and 4 (still on my journey since #4 is only 6 months old) by cutting out sugars on a daily basis, period.
just the other day i decided to put this little philosophy to the test.
started this one a day early.
as i’ve said a thousand times before, no matter what sweetener you chose (natural, organic, raw, etc.)…a sugar is a sugar and it should always be used in moderation.
knowing our society’s obsession with all things sweet i have a feeling this could be the most difficult“real food” mini-pledge yet.
my kids (2 of them) will be mostly in, and the hubby will be in while he’s at home and i’m in control sugar is evil.
i’ve cut out most (not all) refined sugars and all refined flours.
starting the day and reading the toothpaste tube (sorbitol), mouthwash (sorbitol).
honestly i pretty much do this a lot of the time anyway.
this is the first challenge that i am finding almost impossible to do.
that sounds so hard!
articles regarding sweeteners: sweetener-free recipes and meal ideas: caprese salad to take the pledge: please leave a comment below with the number of adults and children in your household that will participate, and also share if you will do it for one meal, one day, or for the entire week.
and i am not just referring to white  sugar and otherrefined sweeteners, which we already tackled a few weeks ago.