while all of us are in the need of something sweet once in awhile, the best suggestion is reaching for mother nature’s sweet bounty in the form of an apple, orange, peach, watermelon or any of the other tasty colorful fruit selections available.
tu   we   th    fr   sa 1    2   3   4 5   6    7   8
the intake of soft drinks  containing high-fructose corn syrup or sucrose has risen in parallel with the  epidemic of obesity.
in its natural state it is highly nutritious, since the molasses has not been removed.
the number of americans consuming sugar-free  products increased from less than 70 million in 1987 to more than 160 million  in 2000.
filtered: this is raw honey that has been warmed to make it easier to filter out small particles and impurities.
obesity rates in both adults and children are reaching  epidemic proportions.
• raw: may contain bits of wax, insect parts and other small detritus.
9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 home » dining & recipes »
use in place of brown sugar for an extraordinary flavor.
other than being somewhat cleaner than raw honey, it is essentially  the same.
over time, your body loses the ability to gauge caloric intake, which leads to a tendency to consume more food than needed and thereby gain more weight.
agave nectar—juice is extracted from the core of the agave plant • has minimal effect on blood sugar and insulin release.
a recent study by purdue university found that rats given yogurt sweetened with saccharin (an artificial sweetener) consumed more calories and gained more weight than rats fed yogurt sweetened with glucose (a natural variety of sugar).
natural sweeteners to avoid: all natural sweeteners are not created equal, and although they are technically considered “natural,” they should be avoided.
in cooking: 1/3 cup of  agave syrup = 1 cup of sugar.
one packet sugar, or 1/4 teaspoon liquid stevia = 2 teaspoons sugar.
cane sugar—produced from the sugar cane plant • cane sugar does not go through the same refinery process as sugar, so it retains more of the nutrients.
when the  sugar is replaced by a no-calorie, artificial sweetener, and the calories never  reach the stomach, the body is left in a state of confusion.
while all of us are in the need of  something sweet once in awhile, the best suggestion is reaching for mother  nature’s sweet bounty in the form of an apple, orange, peach, watermelon  or any of the other tasty colorful fruit selections available.
filtered: this is raw honey  that has been warmed to make it easier to filter out small particles and  impurities.
the intake of soft drinks containing high-fructose corn syrup or sucrose has risen in parallel with the epidemic of obesity.
how artificial sweeteners can actually pack on the pounds how artificial sweeteners can actually pack on the pounds user rating: / 0 poorbest how artificial  sweeteners can actually pack on the pounds we read it in newspapers and see it on the nightly news; even hollywood is  responding with various spin-offs of the nbc hit reality show “the  biggest loser.”
surprisingly, however, switching from sugar to an artificial,  no-calorie sweetener may thwart your attempts to cut calories and actually  cause your metabolism to slow down, and slow metabolism can be a major factor  in weight gain.
obesity rates in both adults and children are reaching epidemic proportions.
how artificial sweeteners can actually pack on the pounds protect your child by going green
switching to natural sweeteners: replacing artificially processed sugars with natural sweeteners is the best solution, so consider adding one or more of the below to your diet: stevia —extracted from a plant grown in south america • does not raise blood sugar levels.
family health & nutrition » how artificial sweeteners can actually pack on the pounds user rating: / 0user
while the incidence of obesity and overweight americans  have spiked over the years, so has the trend of consuming  “sugar-free” foods.
table sugar (sucrose)—white table sugar is empty of all  vitamins, minerals, fiber, amino acids and trace elements, which are removed  during the refining process.
sucanat—organically grown, freshly squeezed sugar cane juice,  evaporated by a special swiss process.
janet little is a certified nutritionist with henry’s farmers markets.
when you consume glucose, found in foods and drinks (such as regular soda pop), your taste buds send a message to the brain that says sugar is on its way down to the stomach.
“in 2000, the intake of added sugars for the average american was two and a half times that recommended by the dietary guidelines, and nearly half of the added sugars came from high fructose corn syrup,” according to the american dietetic association.
in cooking: 1 packet stevia =
in its natural state  it is highly nutritious, since the molasses has not been removed.
stevia —extracted from a plant grown in south america • does not  raise blood sugar levels.
use in place of brown sugar  for an extraordinary flavor.
your brain then prepares your stomach to take in the sugar,  while your metabolism prepares the body for the incoming calories.
when you consume glucose, found in foods and drinks (such as regular soda pop),  your taste buds send a message to the brain that says sugar is on its way down  to the stomach.
in cooking: 1 packet stevia = one packet sugar, or 1/4 teaspoon liquid stevia = 2 teaspoons sugar.
cane sugar—produced from the sugar cane plant • cane sugar does not go through the same refinery process as sugar, so
of course,  this doesn’t mean that you should always drink regular soda either, since  the high-fructose corn syrup also packs a high-calorie punch.
artificial sweeteners to avoid: • aspartame (nutrasweet/equal) • saccharin (sweet’n low) artificial sweeteners to use with caution: • sucralose (splenda)—chlorinated; sucralose is 600 times sweeter than sugar on average and has no calories • acesulfame k (sweet one or sunnette)
table sugar (sucrose)—white table sugar is empty of all vitamins, minerals, fiber, amino acids and trace elements, which are removed during the refining process.
• 10  to 15 times sweeter than sugar.
• raw: may contain bits of wax, insect  parts and other small detritus.
switching to natural sweeteners: replacing artificially  processed sugars with natural sweeteners is the best solution, so consider  adding one or more of the below to your diet:
we read it in newspapers and see it on the nightly news; even hollywood is responding with various spin-offs of the nbc hit reality show “the biggest loser.”
over time, your  body loses the ability to gauge caloric intake, which leads to a tendency to  consume more food than needed and thereby gain more weight.
other than being somewhat cleaner than raw honey, it is essentially the same.
family health & nutrition  »
•  raises blood sugar levels.
honey—produced by honeybees • contains a  number of nutrients that include sugars, such as fructose, glucose, sucrose,  maltose, lactose and other disaccharides and trisaccharides.
it  retains more of the nutrients.
of course, this doesn’t mean that you should always drink regular soda either, since the high-fructose corn syrup also packs a high-calorie punch.
you might also  like: where have all the active kids  gone?
how they work artificial sweeteners may weaken the  body’s ability to identify the delivery of calories into the stomach.
artificial sweeteners to avoid: • saccharin (sweet’n low) artificial sweeteners to use with caution: • sucralose  (splenda)—chlorinated; sucralose is 600 times sweeter than sugar on  average and has no calories • acesulfame k (sweet one or sunnette)
• 10 to 15 times sweeter than sugar.
do artificial sweeteners really cause weight gain?
when the sugar is replaced by a no-calorie, artificial sweetener, and the calories never reach the stomach, the body is left in a state of confusion.
• honey may contain minute quantities of clostridium botulinum spores and should not be fed to children under 1 year of age.
most of the trace amounts of nutrients remain intact.
“in 2000, the intake of added  sugars for the average american was two and a half times that recommended by  the dietary guidelines, and nearly half of the added sugars came from high  fructose corn syrup,” according to the american dietetic association.
• contains calories.
there are other  healthier, more natural alternatives that are low in calories and just as sweet.
there are other healthier, more natural alternatives that are low in calories and just as sweet.
high fructose corn syrup •
how they work artificial sweeteners may weaken the body’s ability to identify the delivery of calories into the stomach.
your brain then prepares your stomach to take in the sugar, while your metabolism prepares the body for the incoming calories.
while the incidence of obesity and overweight americans have spiked over the years, so has the trend of consuming “sugar-free” foods.
the number of americans consuming sugar-free products increased from less than 70 million in 1987 to more than 160 million in 2000.
a recent  study by purdue university found that rats given yogurt sweetened with  saccharin (an artificial sweetener) consumed more calories and gained more  weight than rats fed yogurt sweetened with glucose (a natural variety of  sugar).
surprisingly, however, switching from sugar to an artificial, no-calorie sweetener may thwart your attempts to cut calories and actually cause your metabolism to slow down, and slow metabolism can be a major factor in weight gain.
this led researchers to believe that foods with artificial sweeteners, such as saccharin and aspartame, lead to greater weight gain than the same foods sweetened with high-calorie sugar.
in cooking: 1/3 cup of agave syrup = 1 cup of sugar.
sucanat—organically grown, freshly squeezed sugar cane juice, evaporated by a special swiss process.
janet little is a certified  nutritionist with henry’s farmers markets.
• honey may contain minute  quantities of clostridium botulinum spores and should not be fed to children  under 1 year of age.
• raises blood sugar levels.
agave nectar—juice is extracted from the core of the agave  plant • has minimal effect on blood sugar and insulin release.
-----------------------------
these excess calories lead to obesity.
natural sweeteners to avoid: all natural sweeteners are not  created equal, and although they are technically considered  “natural,” they should be avoided.
this led researchers to believe that foods with artificial sweeteners,  such as saccharin and aspartame, lead to greater weight gain than the same  foods sweetened with high-calorie sugar.
honey—produced by honeybees • contains a number of nutrients that include sugars, such as fructose, glucose, sucrose, maltose, lactose and other disaccharides and trisaccharides.