flesh-eating animals take their protein  raw and straight.
the extra speed with which sucrose enters the bloodstream does more harm than good.
shelton, h. m., food combining made easy, shelton health school, texas, 1951, p. 32.
martin, william coda, "when is a food a food-and when a poison?",michigan organic news, march 1957, p. 3.
the law observed by orthodox jews prohibits many combinations at the same  meal, especially flesh and dairy products.
deposit  calories (like dollars) and withdraw energy.
that is called hypoglycemia, and symptoms  may include depression, dizziness, crying spells, aggression, insomnia,  weakness, and even loss of consciousness.
the mind truly boggles when one glances over what passes for medical history.
it happens to be a front organization for the leading sugar-pushing  conglomerates in the food business, including the american sugar refining  company, coca-cola, pepsi-cola, curtis candy co., general foods, general mills,  nestlé co., pet milk co. and sunshine biscuits-about 45 such companies  in all.
actually, the ads were disguised retractions they were  forced to make in a strategic retreat after a lengthy tussle with the federal  trade commission over an earlier ad campaign claiming that a little shot of  sugar before meals would "curb" your appetite.
according to william duffy in "sugar blues" the difference between sugar addiction and narcotic addiction is largely one of degree.
in the 1930s, a research dentist from cleveland,  ohio, dr weston a. price, traveled all over the world-from the lands of the  eskimos to the south sea islands, from africa to new zealand.
as a result , our cholesterol level rises; our metabolic rate goes down; fats burn more slowly; gall stones are crystallizing in or liver; we feel less like exercising, and our weight is increasing.
if they suspect they have low blood sugar, they  are programmed to snack on vending machine candies and sodas in order to raise  their blood sugar level.
if they can't make it, call  the doctor to qualify for sick pay, hospitalization, rest cure-anything from a  day's pay without working to an artificial kidney, courtesy of the taxpayers.
selection of food (and drugs) in a  world that is undergoing rapid scientific and technological change may often be  far from the best.
so the sugar pushers have begun  to pervert the word "natural" in order to mislead the public.
what mystified them was the low, flat curves derived from disturbed, early adolescents.
if our body is unable to use all of the extra fats and  cholesterol produced from sugars,it must dump the additional load.
deposit proteins, carbohydrates,  fats, vitamins and minerals-balanced quantitatively-and the result,  theoretically, is a healthy body.
"made from natural ingredients", the television sugar-pushers tell us about product after product.
" when starches and complex sugars (like those in honey and fruits) are digested, they are broken down into simple sugars called "monosaccharides", which are usable substances-nutriments.
use of the word "carbohydrate" as a  "scientific" word for sugar has become a standard defense strategy  with sugar pushers and many of their medical apologists.
the opium poppy is as  natural as the sugar beet.
sucrose addiction is something new in the history of the human animal.
flesh-eating animals take their protein raw and straight.
heroin, too, could be advertised as being made from natural ingredients.
when these comparatively harmless places are completely filled, fatty acids  are then distributed among active organs, such as the heart and kidneys.
the sugar in the bread and the coke sit there with the hamburger and the bun waiting for them to be digested.
however, the story of the public relations attempts on the part of the sugar manufacturers began in britain in 1808 when the committee of west india reported to the house of commons that a prize of twenty-five guineas had been offered to anyone who could come up with the most "satisfactory" experiments to prove that unrefined sugar was good for feeding and fattening oxen, cows, hogs and sheep.5 food for animals is often seasonal, always expensive.
crave it is one thing-need it is another.
unless you've taken too much insulin and, in a state of insulin shock, need sugar as an antidote, hardly anyone ever has cause to take sugar alone.
its a simple sugar that tastes much like brown or turbinado sugar; however, its less refined and contains more vitamins and minerals.
sucrose: "pure" energy at a price when calories became the big thing in the 1920s, and everybody was learning  to count them, the sugar pushers turned up with a new pitch.
they were in a wasted condition due to  starvation, having consumed nothing but sugar and rum.
molasses is a by­product of the refined white, brown, and turbinado sugars.
what, you might ask, is  the nutrition foundation, inc.?
dieting to lose weight is as silly and  dangerous as taking aspirin to relieve a headache before you know the reason  for the headache.
the results were so startling that the laboratories double-checked their  techniques, then apologised for what they believed to be incorrect readings.
tintera, john w., hypoadrenocorticism, adrenal metabolic research society of the hypoglycemia foundation, inc., mt vernon, new york, 1969.
sugar of all kinds-natural sugars, such as those in honey and fruit  (fructose), as well as the refined white stuff (sucrose)-tends to arrest the  secretion of gastric juices and have an inhibiting effect on the stomach's  natural ability to move.
people qualify as healthy today if they can  crawl out of bed, get to the office and sign in.
any diet which includes refined sugar  and white flour, no matter what "scientific" name is applied to them,  is dangerous.
well, the sugar pushers came up with a new slant on purity.
these are taken to every part of the body and stored in the most inactive areas: the belly, the buttocks, the breasts and the thighs.
this leads to adrenal fatigue and in turn makes blood sugar ups and downs ever more pronounced.
refined sugar: the sweetest poison of all a multitude of common physical and mental ailments are strongly linked to  the consuming of 'pure', refined sugar.
however, one is led to believe that the manufacturers are talking about the  sucrose which is made in their refineries.
had anything come of that, you can be sure the west indian sugar  merchants would have spread the news around the world.
this manufactured word means "a substance containing carbon with oxygen and hydrogen".
such confinement began in the age of enlightenment, after sugar made the transition from apothecary's prescription to candymaker's confection.
minerals such as sodium (from salt), potassium and magnesium (from vegetables), and calcium (from the bones) are mobilized and used in chemical transmutation; neutral acids are produced which attempt to return the acid-alkaline balance factor of the blood to a more normal state.
no waste attends its use.
people have been bamboozled into thinking of their bodies the way they  think of their cheque accounts.
while the stomach is working on the  animal protein and the refined starch in the bread, the addition of the sugar  practically guarantees rapid acid fermentation under the conditions of warmth  and moisture existing in the stomach.
don't buy anything unless it says on the label prominently, in plain english: "no sugar added".
once the doctor or the exorcist had been  called in, he was under pressure to do something.
any credibility the sugar pushers have is based on our ignorance of works like that of dr price.
" sure, the body can get rid of poisons through the urine and the pores; the amount of poisons in the urine is taken as an index to what's going on in the intestine.
these begin to slow down; finally their tissues degenerate and turn to fat.
this picture becomes more marked at pubescence and often causes school  officials to complain of juvenile delinquency or underachievement.
foul stools, loose stools, impacted stools, pebbly stools, much foul gas, colitis, haemorrhoids, bleeding with stools, the need for toilet paper are swept into the orbit of the normal.
so the sugar pushers have begun to pervert the word "natural" in order to mislead the public.
beginning with world war i, the sugar pushers coated their propaganda with  a preparedness pitch.
excess sugar eventually affects every organ in the body.
it is often said that surgeons bury their  mistakes.
god to use in special cures, but not as a every day food !
correct food combining whether it's sugared cereal or pastry and black coffee for breakfast,  whether it's hamburgers and coca-cola for lunch or the full "gourmet"  dinner in the evening, chemically the average american diet is a formula that  guarantees bubble, bubble, stomach trouble.
while some witches may have survived dunking, no 'madman' survives  psychological testing...there is no behavior or person that a modern  psychiatrist cannot plausibly diagnose as abnormal or ill."
glucose has always been an essential element in the human bloodstream.
pyruvic acid accumulates in the brain and nervous  system and the abnormal sugars in the red blood cells.
this kind of confusion makes possible the flimflam practiced by sugar pushers to confound anxious mothers into thinking kiddies need sugar to survive.
while preparing his epochal volume, a history of nutrition, published in  1957, professor e. v. mccollum (johns hopkins university), sometimes called  america's foremost nutritionist and certainly a pioneer in the field, reviewed  approximately 200,000 published scientific papers, recording experiments with  food, their properties, their utilization and their effects on animals and men.
so-called preventive medicine goes further and suggests that since we only think we can handle sugar because we initially have strong adrenals, why wait until they give us signs and signals that they're worn out?
tell us about product after product.
sugar manufacturers keep trying, hoping and contributing generous research grants to colleges and universities; but the research laboratories never come up with anything solid the manufacturers can use.
so essential is balance to our bodies that we have many ways to provide  against the sudden shock of a heavy intake of sugar.
when blood glucose falls too low, our adrenal glands will mobilize the  body's stores of glycogen (starch like carbohydrate , many glucose molecules  hooked end to end in a chain,stored in liver and muscle) and will also  stimulate the synthesis of glucose from proteins and other substances present  in our body.
fatty degeneration includes atherosclerosis, fatty liver and kidneys, some tumors, obesity and some forms of diabetes.
he laid out a sweeping permanent injunction against sugar in all forms and guises.
what was once a luxury only a privileged few  could enjoy is now a food for the poorest of people."
from this  great repository of scientific inquiry, mccollum selected those experiments  which he regarded as significant "to relate the story of progress in  discovering human error in this segment of science [of nutrition]".
the first process gives us  nutriments; the second gives us poisons.
with undaunted zeal for increasing the market demand for the most important agricultural product of the west indies, the committee of west india was reduced to a tactic that has served the sugar pushers for almost 200 years: irrelevant and transparently silly testimonials from faraway, inaccessible people with some kind of "scientific" credentials.
a gtt can be performed on a young child by the micro-method without undue  trauma to the patient.
fruit sweeteners  work well in most baked goods.
even if they do, it will be less dangerous than a few ounces of sugar.
when blood glucose falls too low, our adrenal glands will mobilize the body's stores of glycogen (starch like carbohydrate , many glucose molecules hooked end to end in a chain,stored in liver and muscle) and will also stimulate the synthesis of glucose from proteins and other substances present in our body.
perhaps tintera's untimely death in 1969 at the age of fifty-seven made it easier for the medical profession to accept discoveries that had once seemed as far out as the simple oriental medical thesis of genetics and diet, yin and yang.
get to know more about the sugar/depression/energy connection.
to replace 1 cup liquid sweetener with 3/4 cup honey: add 1/4 cup water.
so it was in the 17th century.
along comes someone  who says none of this matters: take them off sugar, and keep them off it.
our body's tolerance and immunizing power becomes more limited, so we cannot respond properly to extreme attacks, whether they be cold, heat, mosquitoes or microbes.
"2 refined sugar is lethal when ingested by humans because it provides only  that which nutritionists describe as "empty" or "naked"  calories.
this stress reaction increases the production of both cholesterol and cortisone.
granulated  cane juice can be used as a substitute for both white and brown sugar, but it  is still rich in sucrose.
it lacks the natural minerals which are present in the sugar beet or  cane.
from this great repository of scientific inquiry, mccollum selected those experiments which he regarded as significant "to relate the story of progress in discovering human error in this segment of science [of nutrition]".
but, says shelton, "the  discomfort from accumulation of gas, the bad breath, and foul and unpleasant  odors are as undesirable as are the poisons".
all other foods contain energy plus.
if you are a vegetarian and eat mostly carbohydrates, the effect of extra sugar is heightened.
much that passes for modern nutrition is obsessed with a mania for quantitative counting.
the key to orderly brain function is glutamic acid, a vital compound found in  many vegetables.
bacterial  decomposition makes them unfit for use by our body.
other animals tend to eat one food at a time.
however, the story of the public relations attempts on the part of the  sugar manufacturers began in britain in 1808 when the committee of west india  reported to the house of commons that a prize of twenty-five guineas had been  offered to anyone who could come up with the most "satisfactory"  experiments to prove that unrefined sugar was good for feeding and fattening  oxen, cows, hogs and sheep.5 food for animals is often seasonal, always  expensive.
in 200 cases under treatment for hypoadrenocorticism (the lack of adequate adrenal cortical hormone production or imbalance among these hormones), he discovered that the chief complaints of his patients were often similar to those found in persons whose systems were unable to handle sugar: fatigue, nervousness, depression, apprehension, craving for sweets, inability to handle alcohol, inability to concentrate, allergies, low blood pressure.
" in megavitamin b3 therapy for schizophrenia, dr abram hoffer notes:  "patients are also advised to follow a good nutritional program with  restriction of sucrose and sucrose-rich foods.
the body does establish a tolerance for these poisons, just as it  adjusts gradually to an intake of heroin.
our body digests and absorbs these concentrated sources of sugars rapidly, and quickly turns them into saturated fatty acids and cholesterol.
what was meant by purity, besides the unarguable fact that all vitamins,  minerals, salts, fibres and proteins had been removed in the refining process?
he suggested  that perhaps someone should try again by sneaking sugar and molasses into  skimmed milk.
chemists add to the confusion by using the word "sugar" to  describe an entire group of substances that are similar but not identical.
it lacks the natural minerals which are present in the sugar beet or cane.
it has long been our goal to persuade every physician, whether oriented toward psychiatry, genetics or physiology, to recognise that one type of endocrine individual is involved in the majority of these cases: the hypoadrenocortic.15 tintera published several epochal medical papers.
don’t eat any concentrated sweetener for breakfast eat your breakfast as late as possible and start with fruit
as soon as refined, sugared foods were imported as a result of  contact with "civilization", physical degeneration began in a way  that was definitely observable within a single generation.
what was once a luxury only a privileged few could enjoy is now a food for the poorest of people."
dr herbert m. shelton asks.
these foods, which stimulate the adrenals, should be eliminated or severely restricted.
this stress  reaction increases the production of both cholesterol and cortisone.
the five surviving sailors were finally rescued after  being marooned for nine days.
they ate natural, unrefined food from their own locale.
hoffer, abram, "megavitamin b3  therapy for schizophrenia",canadian psychiatric association journal , vol. 16, 1971, p. 500.
note this, for many of us have adrenals already fatigued from overeating of sugar.
if you ever eat with a traditional japanese family and you violate this order, the orientals (if your friends) will correct you courteously but firmly.
the level of beta endorphins have a direct impact on a person’s self esteem, tolerance for pain, sense of connectiveness and to the ability to take personal responsibility for action.
our body digests and absorbs these concentrated  sources of sugars rapidly, and quickly turns them into saturated fatty acids  and cholesterol.
this kind of confusion makes possible  the flimflam practiced by sugar pushers to confound anxious mothers into  thinking kiddies need sugar to survive.
all foods contain some nutrients in  the way of proteins, carbohydrates, vitamins or minerals, or all of these.
how long would the women's christian temperance union let the liquor lobby get away with that one?
laziness, fatigue, debauchery, parental displeasure-any one problem was sufficient cause for people under twenty-five to be locked up in the first parisian mental hospitals.
people who live under so-called backward primitive conditions had excellent  teeth and wonderful general health.
when the liver is filled to its maximum capacity, the excess glycogen is returned to the blood in the form of fatty acids.
miso soup  (fermented soybean protein, yang) for breakfast; raw fish (more yang protein)
i believe  that mental disease is for the most part caused by abnormal reaction rates, as  determined by genetic constitution and diet, and by abnormal molecular  concentrations of essential substances...
one of the aspects of fatty degeneration is deposition of visible fat in  places where it is not normally found in healthy people.
so-called preventive medicine goes further and suggests that since we only  think we can handle sugar because we initially have strong adrenals, why wait  until they give us signs and signals that they're worn out?
"of course, we don't live on any such unbalanced diet," they admitted later.
carbohydrates that ferment in the digestive tract are converted into  alcohol and acetic acid, not digestible monosaccharides.
i do not recommend it !!!
from the days of the persian empire to our own, sugar has usually been used to hop up the flavour of other food and drink, as an ingredient in the kitchen or as a condiment at the table.
the word "from" is not accented  on television.
each of these periods has its own characteristic clinical picture.
the best scientific names that money could buy have been hired, in the hope that they could one day come up with something at least pseudoscientific in the way of glad tidings about sugar.
later, the sugar pushers advertised that sugar was chemically pure, topping  ivory soap in that department, being 99.9 per cent pure against ivory's vaunted  99.44 per cent.
if you are sick, avoid it !!!
choosing natural sweeteners  rich in complex carbohydrates and reading  labels before buying a product will help you reduce your consumption of refined  sugar.
too much sugar makes one sleepy; our ability to calculate and remember is lost.
such confinement began in the age of enlightenment, after sugar made  the transition from apothecary's prescription to candymaker's confection.
blackstrap molasses is the liquid left after the last  extraction of sugar crystals, and has a stronger, bittersweet flavor and is  richer in potassium, calcium, iron, and b­vitamins than sweet  molasses.
though molasses is better than white sugar, it still  contain a lot of it, so i can not recommend eating molasses.
initially, it is stored in the liver in the form of glucose (glycogen).
in orthomolecular psychiatry, dr pauling writes: "the functioning of  the brain and nervous tissue is more sensitively dependent on the rate of  chemical reactions than the functioning of other organs and tissues.
since the improved labeling of nutritional properties was required on packages and cans, refined carbohydrates like sugar are lumped together with those carbohydrates which may or may not be refined.
they boasted there  were 2,500 calories in a pound of sugar.
in the dark ages, troubled souls were rarely locked up for going off their  rocker.
like barley malt, it is ground and heated to make a thick syrup.
meanwhile, when sugar eaters did not manifest obvious terminal physical  symptoms and the physicians were professionally bewildered, patients were no  longer pronounced bewitched, but mad, insane, emotionally disturbed.
enzymic digestion of foods prepares them for use by our body.
it does not mean that the honey is free from minerals like iodine,  iron, calcium, phosphorus or multiple vitamins.
dr martin classified refined sugar as a poison because it has been depleted of its life forces, vitamins and minerals.
the first process gives us nutriments; the second gives us poisons.
dr tintera finally insisted that all his patients submit to a four-hour  glucose tolerance test (gtt) to find out whether or not they could handle  sugar.
get to know some new foods that have a subtle sweet taste from natural  sugars.
perhaps the most significant thing about mccollum's 1957 history was what  he left out: a monumental earlier work described by an eminent harvard  professor as "one of those epochal pieces of research which makes every  other investigator desirous of kicking himself because he never thought of  doing the same thing".
when blood sugar spikes it signals the adrenal glands to release more adrenaline.
each of these periods has its own characteristic clinical  picture.
any diet or regimen undertaken for the single purpose of losing weight is  dangerous, by definition.
hooton, ernest a., apes, men, and morons, putnam,  new york, 1937.
an average american consume 147 pounds of sweeteners each year.
when calories became the big thing in the 1920s, and everybody was learning to count them, the sugar pushers turned up with a new pitch.
caloric energy and habit-forming taste: that's what sucrose has, and nothing else.
the  circulatory and lymphatic systems are invaded, and the quality of the red  corpuscles starts to change.
it's their security blanket.
but huge production of insulin can not be stopped in the same moment as  sugar stop coming in the bloodstream.
eating less can aggravate this condition, unless one is concerned with the quality of the food instead of just its quantity.
when sugars are eaten with other  foods-perhaps meat and bread in a sandwich-they are held up in the stomach for  a while.
brown sugar is white sugar with molasses and/or caramel coloring added.
physicians and psychiatrists put them away; lock 'em up.
it is good concentrated sweeteners !
1 % 90 - 96 % simple sugars, fructose, glucose, and sucrose maple syrup is made from the sap of sugar maple trees.
it can leach b, c, d  vitamins, and those minerals: calcium, phosphorous, iron, selenium, zinc, chromium, vanadium, tin, boron,  bismuth, rear earth elements etc. from our teeth, bones, and tissues.
the body cannot utilize this refined starch and  carbohydrate unless the depleted proteins, vitamins and minerals are present.
obesity is talked about and treated as a disease in  20th-century america.
it follows that with higher levels of beta  endorphins the disease management process would be easier.
click logo for members access  area.
monoglycerides used in some ice creams are a possible cancer causing agent in test animals.
glucose is always present in our bloodstream, and it is often called "blood sugar".
the level of  glucose in their blood is apt to be low because they are addicted to sucrose.
an influx of sugar into the blood stream upsets the body's blood sugar balance, triggering the release of insulin, which the body uses to keep blood sugar at a safe and constant level.
a little over a quarter-pound of sugar  would produce 20 per cent of the total daily quota.
a gtt can be performed on a young child by the micro-method without undue trauma to the patient.
as you see , sugar is where it all starts, i mean disease.
according to usda biochemist richard anderson, refined sugar may also  impair the absorption of trace minerals like copper and chromium present in  some of the other foods we have eaten.
the use of the word  "carbohydrate" outside the laboratory-especially in food labeling and  advertising lingo-to describe both natural, complete cereal grains (which have  been a principal food of mankind for thousands of years) and man-refined sugar  (which is a manufactured drug and principal poison of mankind for only a few  hundred years) is demonstrably wicked.
one of the major drawbacks is that sugar raises the insulin level, which  inhibits the release of growth hormones, which in turn depresses the immune  system.
when  starches and sugars are taken together and undergo fermentation, they are  broken down into carbon dioxide, acetic acid, alcohol and water.
it makes possible more flimflam from the sugar pushers who tell us how  important sugar is as an essential component of the human body, how it is  oxidized to produce energy, how it is metabolized to produce warmth, and so on.
in almost all discussions on drug addiction, alcoholism and schizophrenia, it is claimed that there is no definite constitutional type that falls prey to these afflictions.
read food  and healing, sugar blues, or potatoes not prozac more about sugar: sugars are classified as either simple or complex carbohydrates.
in the 1930s, a research dentist from cleveland, ohio, dr weston a. price, traveled all over the world-from the lands of the eskimos to the south sea islands, from africa to new zealand.
as a matter of fact, i have been urging that these four tests be routine for all patients, even before a history or physical examination is undertaken.
an influx of sugar into the blood stream upsets the body's blood sugar  balance, triggering the release of insulin, which the body uses to keep blood  sugar at a safe and constant level.
that is beginning of  fatty degeneration.
humans [and animals] are "unable to subsist on a diet of sugar".4
these are taken to every part of the body and stored  in the most inactive areas: the belly, the buttocks, the breasts and the thighs.
" clinical research with hyperactive and psychotic children, as well as those  with brain injuries and learning disabilities, has shown: "an abnormally high family history of diabetes-that is, parents and  grandparents who cannot handle sugar; an abnormally high incidence of low blood  glucose, or functional hypoglycemia in the children themselves, which indicates  that their systems cannot handle sugar; dependence on a high level of sugar in  the diets of the very children who cannot handle it.
our body's tolerance and immunizing power  becomes more limited, so we cannot respond properly to extreme attacks, whether  they be cold, heat, mosquitoes or microbes.
nobody is going to eat a half-dozen sugar beets or a whole case of sugar cane.
serious trouble can happen if the balance is off which is easy since sugar is addictive, like a drug.
kicking sugar and white flour and substituting whole grains, vegetables and natural fruits in season, is the core of any sensible natural regimen.
initially, when the general hospital was established in paris by royal  decree, one per cent of the city's population was locked up.
his devastating  conclusion, recorded in horrifying detail in area after area, was simple.
the  more sugars you eat, the more vitamins and minerals you need.
this condition is called hyperglycemia, and is one of the symptoms of  diabetes.
glucose is a sugar found usually with other sugars, in fruits and vegetables.
the mental hospital succeeded witch-hunting and heresy-hounding as a more enlightened and humane method of social control.
consequently, consuming large amounts of refined sugars places an extra burden on the body to supply the nutrients, specifically the b vitamins, chromium, magnesium, and zinc, needed to convert glucose (blood sugar) into energy.
b vitamins are also manufactured by symbiotic bacteria which live in our intestines.
when gluttony and excess became widespread,  religious codes and commandments were invoked against it.
padnor, pa, usa currently published by warner books,  usa.
with undaunted zeal for increasing the market demand for the most important  agricultural product of the west indies, the committee of west india was  reduced to a tactic that has served the sugar pushers for almost 200 years:  irrelevant and transparently silly testimonials from faraway, inaccessible  people with some kind of "scientific" credentials.
it is also about brown/ raw/ turbinado sugar, molasses, syrups, and other concentrated sweeteners like : dextrose (glucose) , fructose, galactose, maltose, lactose, dextrin, dextrains, and honey.
craving for sugar and sweets is a symptom of chromium and vanadium deficiency.
refined sugars have been stripped of the vitamins, minerals, and fiber that  were originally present before processing.
over and over, he emphasised that improvement, alleviation, palliation or cure was "dependent upon the restoration of the normal function of the total organism".
here  are some suggestions to make the withdrawal easier: as you are reducing the amount of sugar also reduce the amount of meat you  are eating eat a bit of ginger before meals taking colloidal minerals that contain trace minerals chromium and  vanadium would solve problem of craving for sugar and sweets !
the energy-building power of sugar reaches the muscles in minutes and it was of value to soldiers as a ration given them just before an attack was launched."
to replace 1 cup dry sweetener with 3/4 cup honey: reduce another liquid by 1/4 cup or add 1/3 cup flour.
this laboratory procedure had been previously carried out only for  patients with physical findings presumptive of diabetes.
it is only a symptom, a sign, a  warning that your body is out of order.
"what is left consists of pure,  refined carbohydrates.
the dictionary gives an even broader definition for "poison": "to exert a harmful influence on, or to pervert".
fruit sweeteners work well in most baked goods.
the use of the word "carbohydrate" to describe sugar is  deliberately misleading.
it is also about brown/ raw/  turbinado sugar, molasses, syrups, and other concentrated sweeteners like  : dextrose (glucose) , fructose, galactose, maltose, lactose, dextrin,  dextrains,  and honey.
eat more fresh fruit and compote.
actually, this is the worst thing to do.
szasz, thomas s.,the manufacture of madness: a comparative study of the  inquisition and the mental health movement, harper & row, new york,  1970.
when  honey is labeled pure, this means that it is in its natural state (stolen  directly from the bees who made it), with no adulteration with sucrose to  stretch it and no harmful chemical residues which may have been sprayed on the  flowers.
sugars are classified by chemists as "carbohydrates".
much that passes for modern nutrition is obsessed with a mania for  quantitative counting.
if sugar were seven cents a pound, it would cost less than $35 for a whole year."
if , after reading those facts you feel to stop eating sugar , we are recommending next alternatives: dry fruit, fresh fruit, fresh fruit juice, resins, apple syrup, rice malt, barley malt.
" "pure" is a favorite adjective of the sugar pushers because it  means one thing to the chemists and another thing to the ordinary mortals.
one thing is common characteristic for all those sweeteners: they are  concentrated and composed of simple sugars  (monosaccharide  and  disaccharide).
cott, allan, "orthomolecular approach to the treatment of learning disabilities", synopsis of reprint article issued by the huxley institute for biosocial research, new york.
initially, when the general hospital was established in paris by royal decree, one per cent of the city's population was locked up.
he could be tolerated-if he stayed in his assigned territory,  endocrinology.
thus, the effect of the label is to hide the sugar content from the unwary buyer.
people who kick sucrose addiction and stay off sucrose find that the glucose  level of their blood returns to normal and stays there.
how long  would the women's christian temperance union let the liquor lobby get away with  that one?
1 % complex carbohydrates 90 - 96 % simple sugars, fructose, glucose, and sucrose is made from the sap of sugar maple trees.
one of the major drawbacks is that sugar raises the insulin level, which inhibits the release of growth hormones, which in turn depresses the immune system.
although honey is a natural sweetener, it is considered a refined  sugar because 96% of dry matter are simple sugars: fructose, glucose and  sucrose.
in the 1940s, dr john tintera rediscovered the vital importance of the  endocrine system, especially the adrenal glands, in "pathological  mentation"-or "brain boggling".
blackstrap molasses is the liquid left after the last extraction of sugar crystals, and has a stronger, bittersweet flavor and is richer in potassium, calcium, iron, and bvitamins than sweet molasses.
almost universally, the statement is made that all of these individuals are emotionally immature.
in addition, sugar is worse than nothing because it drains and leaches  the body of precious vitamins and minerals through the demand its digestion,  detoxification and elimination make upon one's entire system.
after this singular lack  of success in pushing sugar in cow pastures, the west indian sugar merchants  gave up.
the use of the word "carbohydrate" outside the laboratory-especially in food labeling and advertising lingo-to describe both natural, complete cereal grains (which have been a principal food of mankind for thousands of years) and man-refined sugar (which is a manufactured drug and principal poison of mankind for only a few hundred years) is demonstrably wicked.
after this singular lack of success in pushing sugar in cow pastures, the west indian sugar merchants gave up.
when the word "sugar" can  mean the glucose in your blood as well as the sucrose in your coca-cola, it's  great for the sugar pushers
refined sugars such as white, brown, and turbinado sugars, and the unrefined simple sugars, such as fruit sweeteners and concentrated fruit juices, are all simple carbohydrates.
"no food of our everyday diet is purer," we were  assured.
"if you could buy all your food energy as cheaply as you buy calories in sugar," they told us, "your board bill for the year would be very low.
in the orient, it is traditional to eat yang before yin.
white sugar is 99.9 percent sucrose,  and brown and turbinado are 96 percent sucrose.
white sugar is 99.9 percent sucrose, and brown and turbinado are 96 percent sucrose.
i believe that mental disease is for the most part caused by abnormal reaction rates, as determined by genetic constitution and diet, and by abnormal molecular concentrations of essential substances...
fats can be deposited in the cells of our liver, heart, arteries, fat tissues, kidneys, muscles, and other organs.
the key to orderly brain function is glutamic acid, a vital compound found in many vegetables.
miso soup (fermented soybean protein, yang) for breakfast; raw fish (more yang protein) at the beginning of the meal; afterwards comes the rice (which is less yang than the miso and fish); and then the vegetables which are yin.
this laboratory procedure had been previously carried out only for patients with physical findings presumptive of diabetes.
they cannot get sufficient oxygen  to survive and function normally.
by that time, physicians in london had begun  to observe and record terminal physical signs and symptoms of the "sugar  blues".
let us leave aside for the moment the known effect of sugar (long-term and short-term) on the entire system and concentrate on the effect of sugar taken in combination with other daily foods.
man learned very early in the game what improper combinations of food could  do to the human system.
inflammatory diseases of the breathing and digestive organs result from the use  of brown and white sugar.
any credibility the sugar pushers have is based on our ignorance of works  like that of dr price.
a diet rich in sugars will catch our pancreas and adrenal glands in a biochemical see-saw, overworking them.
mccollum, elmer verner,a history of nutrition: the sequence of ideas in  nutritional investigation, houghton mifflin co., boston, 1957, p. 87.
his devastating conclusion, recorded in horrifying detail in area after area, was simple.
0 % complex carbohydrates 96 % simple sugars, fructose, glucose, and sucrose is made from organically grown sugar cane juice that has been filtered and dehydrated.
33 % or more complex carbohydrates 66 % maltose, fructose, glucose, and sucrose fruit concentrate/sweetener includes frozen juice concentrates such as grape or apple juice and  refrigerated jars of fruit concentrates which are typically blends of juices  such as peach, pear, and pineapple juice.
with the  exception of the water, all these are unusable substances-poisons.
the sugar in the bread and the coke sit there with the hamburger and  the bun waiting for them to be digested.
sucrose is refined sugar made from sugar cane and sugar beet.
one early  commentator called them "hired consciences".
40 % complex carbohydrates (starch) 57 % maltose barley malt syrup is made from (yeast culture) fermented whole barley which is sprouted to  break down some of the carbohydrate into the simple sugar maltose.
sugar, by then, was dirt cheap.
sugars increase our body's production of adrenaline by four times, which  puts the body into a state of  'fight or flight'  stress, without  anything to fight or flee from , except the consumption of sugar.
to much insulin will then cause too rapid  fall of glucose level in the blood.
it's their security  blanket.
the house of commons committee was so hard-up for local cheerleaders on the  sugar question, it was reduced to quoting a doctor from faraway philadelphia, a  leader of the recent american colonial rebellion: "the great dr rush of  philadelphia is reported to have said that 'sugar contains more nutrients in  the same bulk than any other known substance'."
"of course, we don't live on any such unbalanced diet," they  admitted later.
to replace 1 cup liquid sweetener with 1 cup dry sweetener: add 1/3 cup water.
"in more than twenty years of psychiatric work," writes dr thomas  szasz, "i have never known a clinical psychologist to report, on the basis  of a projective test, that the subject is a normal, mentally healthy person.
nobody is going to eat a half-dozen sugar beets or a whole case of  sugar cane.
selection of food (and drugs) in a world that is undergoing rapid scientific and technological change may often be far from the best.
what nutritional virtue this abstract chemical purity  represents, the sugar pushers never tell us.
when these comparatively harmless places are completely filled, fatty acids are then distributed among active organs, such as the heart and kidneys.
in the dark ages, troubled souls were rarely locked up for going off their rocker.
"what is left consists of pure, refined carbohydrates.
minerals such as sodium  (from salt), potassium and magnesium (from vegetables), and calcium (from the  bones) are mobilized and used in chemical transmutation; neutral acids are  produced which attempt to return the acid-alkaline balance factor of the blood  to a more normal state.
if you eat natural food of good quality, quantity tends to take care of itself.
cardiovascular complications that follow excess glucose or fats kill many diabetics.
his working definition of "poison" was: "medically: any substance applied to the body, ingested or developed within the body, which causes or may cause disease.
lactose is milk sugar.
below is a list and brief description of some of  the natural sweeteners available.
the whole  body is affected by their reduced ability, and abnormal blood pressure is  created.
the more that the scientists disappointed them, the more the sugar pushers had to rely on the ad men.
0 % complex carbohydrates 96 % sucrose by don buscher, msn the granulated brown rice and cane juice sweeteners are roughly equal in sweetness to refined white, brown, or turbinado sugar and can be substituted on a cup for cup basis without changing t anything else in the recipe.
maltose is malt sugar.
the "quick" energy claim the sugar pushers talk about, which  drives reluctant doughboys over the top and drives children up the wall, is  based on the fact that refined sucrose is not digested in the mouth or the  stomach but passes directly to the lower intestines and thence to the  bloodstream.
"2 refined sugar is lethal when ingested by humans because it provides only that which nutritionists describe as "empty" or "naked" calories.
though molasses is better than white sugar, it still contain a lot of it, so i can not recommend eating molasses.
because of its mild taste, it can be used as a substitute for white or brown  sugar.
sugar on cereal-whether you buy it already sugared in a  box or add it yourself-almost guarantees acid fermentation.
the house of commons committee was so hard-up for local cheerleaders on the sugar question, it was reduced to quoting a doctor from faraway philadelphia, a leader of the recent american colonial rebellion: "the great dr rush of philadelphia is reported to have said that 'sugar contains more nutrients in the same bulk than any other known substance'."
this incident occurred when a vessel carrying a cargo of sugar was shipwrecked in 1793.
no useless bones like in meat,  no grounds like coffee.
while  tintera's sweeping implication of sugar as a cause of what was called  "schizophrenia" could be confined to medical journals, he was let  alone, ignored.
so effective is the purification process which sugar cane and beets undergo in the refineries that sugar ends up as chemically pure as the morphine or the heroin a chemist has on the laboratory shelves.
not something you want to happen if you want to avoid sickness.
three hundred years later, the "emotionally disturbed" can be turned into walking automatons, their brains controlled with psychoactive drugs.
special utensils for the dairy meal and different utensils for the flesh meal reinforce that taboo at the food's source in the kitchen.
"if you could buy all your food energy as cheaply as you buy calories  in sugar," they told us, "your board bill for the year would be very  low.
perhaps the most significant thing about mccollum's 1957 history was what he left out: a monumental earlier work described by an eminent harvard professor as "one of those epochal pieces of research which makes every other investigator desirous of kicking himself because he never thought of doing the same thing".
refined simple sugars also have an impact on brain chemistry.
a little over a quarter-pound of sugar would produce 20 per cent of the total daily quota.
it's what man does with it that tells the story.
complex carbohydrates tend to be absorbed more slowly, lessening the impact on blood sugar levels.
three hundred years later, the "emotionally disturbed" can  be turned into walking automatons, their brains controlled with psychoactive  drugs.
at the beginning of the meal; afterwards comes the rice (which is less yang  than the miso and fish); and then the vegetables which are yin.
when proteins are taken with sugar, they  putrefy; they are broken down into a variety of ptomaines and leucomaines,  which are nonusable substances-poisons.
make pause between fruit and other food never eat fruit together with a rest of food make treats like cookies sweetened with rice syrup (a honey like sweetener made from cultured rice) or barley malt
but, do not just replace sugar with malt, or apple syrup.
since the beginning of time, natural laws were observed, in both senses of  that word, when it came to eating foods in combination.
eating less can aggravate this condition,  unless one is concerned with the quality of the food instead of just its  quantity.
fatty degeneration  includes atherosclerosis, fatty liver and kidneys, some tumors, obesity and  some forms of diabetes.
the energy-building power of sugar reaches the  muscles in minutes and it was of value to soldiers as a ration given them just  before an attack was launched."
getting rid of a symptom is like turning off an alarm.
whether it's sugared cereal or pastry and black coffee for breakfast, whether it's hamburgers and coca-cola for lunch or the full "gourmet" dinner in the evening, chemically the average american diet is a formula that guarantees bubble, bubble, stomach trouble.
sugar on cereal-whether you buy it already sugared in a box or add it yourself-almost guarantees acid fermentation.
incomplete carbohydrate metabolism results in the formation of 'toxic metabolite' such as pyruvic acid and abnormal sugars containing five carbon atoms.
they raise serotonin levels, which can leave you feeling drowsy.
incomplete carbohydrate metabolism results in the  formation of 'toxic metabolite' such as pyruvic acid and abnormal sugars  containing five carbon atoms.
naturally, the attempt to feed livestock with sugar and molasses in england  in 1808 was a disaster.
the several types of carbohydrates are added together for an overall carbohydrate total.
the word "from" is not accented on television.
the five surviving sailors were finally rescued after being marooned for nine days.
the easiest way of decreasing consumption of sugar is by decreasing consumption of meat.
they ate natural, unrefined food from their  own locale.
actually, the ads were disguised retractions they were forced to make in a strategic retreat after a lengthy tussle with the federal trade commission over an earlier ad campaign claiming that a little shot of sugar before meals would "curb" your appetite.
if chemists want to use these hermetic terms in their  laboratories when they talk to one another, fine.
sugars lack the vitamins and minerals required for their own metabolism.
today, doctors all over the world are repeating what tintera announced  years ago: nobody, but nobody, should ever be allowed to begin what is called  "psychiatric treatment", anyplace, anywhere, unless and until they  have had a glucose tolerance test to discover if they can handle sugar.
natural sweetener % complex carbohydrates in dry matter (good ones) % simple sugars in dry matter (bad ones) is made from (yeast culture) fermented brown rice and sprouted whole barley.
man learned very early in the game what improper combinations of food could do to the human system.
there is a balance between meat consumption and sugar.
clinical research with hyperactive and psychotic children, as well as those with brain injuries and learning disabilities, has shown: "an abnormally high family history of diabetes-that is, parents and grandparents who cannot handle sugar; an abnormally high incidence of low blood glucose, or functional hypoglycemia in the children themselves, which indicates that their systems cannot handle sugar; dependence on a high level of sugar in the diets of the very children who cannot handle it.
"must we always take it for granted that the present eating practices of civilized men are normal?...
sweetener substitutions to replace 1 cup dry sweetener with 1 cup liquid sweetener: reduce another liquid by 1/3 cup or add 4-5 tablespoons flour.
this picture becomes more marked at pubescence and often causes school officials to complain of juvenile delinquency or underachievement.
below is a list and brief description of some of the natural sweeteners available.
martin, william coda, "when is a food a food-and when a  poison?",michigan organic news, march 1957, p. 3.
later, the sugar pushers advertised that sugar was chemically pure, topping ivory soap in that department, being 99.9 per cent pure against ivory's vaunted 99.44 per cent.
it  leaves the basic cause untouched.
the protocols of modern science have compounded the costs of scientific inquiry.
"you need carbohydrates.
brown rice sweeteners have a very  mild flavor and can be used to replace white or brown sugar in baked goods.
perhaps tintera's untimely death in 1969 at the age of fifty-seven made it  easier for the medical profession to accept discoveries that had once seemed as  far out as the simple oriental medical thesis of genetics and diet, yin and  yang.
it is then  ground and heated to make a thick syrup.
it is also  important to generally decrease consumption of concentrated sweeteners.
many overweight people are undernourished.
if our body is unable to use all of the extra fats and cholesterol produced from sugars,it must dump the additional load.
sugars inhibit the function of our immune system, and increase diseases  caused by poor immune function, such as colds, flu, aids, allergies,  infections, ...
as these are depleted, our body becomes less able to carry out other  functions that require minerals and vitamins to be present: to metabolize fats  and cholesterol; to convert cholesterol into bile acids for removal from our  body through the stool; or to burn-off excess fats as heat or increased  activity.
while egas moniz of portugal was receiving a nobel prize for devising the  lobotomy operation for the treatment of schizophrenia, tintera's reward was to  be harassment and hounding by the pundits of organised medicine.
in the experiments, he fed dogs a diet of sugar or olive oil  and water.
dr martin classified refined sugar as a poison because it has been depleted  of its life forces, vitamins and minerals.
since the liver's  capacity is limited, a daily intake of refined sugar (above the required amount  of natural sugar) soon makes the liver expand like a balloon.
160, april 19, 1968, pp.
simple sugars are also called rapid sugars because they do not need digestion and are absorbed rapidly in our bloodstream.
all the dogs wasted and died.3 the shipwrecked sailors and the french physiologist's experimental dogs  proved the same point.
eat  more fresh fruit and compote.
the grain syrups: barley malt and brown rice syrup, contain complex carbohydrates besides some simple sugars.
but it's rough on everybody else.
most modern research in combining food is a laboured discovery of the things grandma took for granted.
laziness,  fatigue, debauchery, parental displeasure-any one problem was sufficient cause  for people under twenty-five to be locked up in the first parisian mental  hospitals.
from that time  until the 20 century, as the consumption of sugar went up and up-especially in  the cities-so did the number of people who were put away in the general  hospital.
these conditions might seem to arise or become aggravated at puberty, but  probing into the patient's past will frequently reveal indications which were  present at birth, during the first year of life, and through the preschool and  grammar school years.
bacterial decomposition makes them unfit for use by our body.
an overabundance of white cells occurs, and the  creation of tissue becomes slower.
today, doctors all over the world are repeating what tintera announced years ago: nobody, but nobody, should ever be allowed to begin what is called "psychiatric treatment", anyplace, anywhere, unless and until they have had a glucose tolerance test to discover if they can handle sugar.
as a result , our cholesterol level rises; our metabolic rate goes  down; fats burn more slowly; gall stones are crystallizing in or liver; we feel  less like exercising, and our weight is increasing.
insulin also promotes the storage of fat,  so when you eat sweets high in sugar and fat, you're making way for rapid  weight gain and elevated triglyceride levels, both of which have been linked to  cardiovascular disease.
this  manufactured word means "a substance containing carbon with oxygen and  hydrogen".
special utensils for the dairy meal  and different utensils for the flesh meal reinforce that taboo at the food's  source in the kitchen.
when grandma warned that sugared cookies before meals "will spoil your  supper", she knew what she was talking about.
if they suspect they have low blood sugar, they are programmed to snack on vending machine candies and sodas in order to raise their blood sugar level.
and it so happens that sugar is the best-tasting carbohydrate."
one lump of sugar in your coffee after a sandwich is enough to turn your stomach into a fermenter.
it follows that with higher levels of beta endorphins the disease management process would be easier.
note this, for many of us have adrenals already  fatigued from overeating of sugar.
every grain is like every other.
"the great confinement of the insane", as one historian calls it,10 began in the late 17th century, after sugar consumption in britain had zoomed in 200 years from a pinch or two in a barrel of beer, here and there, to more than two million pounds per year.
plain  water can keep you alive for quite some time.
if we do not burn off the fat through activity, it will start  accumulating under our skin,in our lever in our arteries and other organs.
when taken alone, they pass quickly through the stomach into the small intestine.
much of the public confusion about refined sugar is compounded by language.
when proteins are digested, they are broken down into amino acids, which  are usable substances-nutriments.
these toxic metabolites interfere with the respiration of the cells.
when he got a stomach ache from combining raw fruit with grain, or honey with porridge, he didn't reach for an antacid tablet.
pyruvic acid accumulates in the brain and nervous system and the abnormal sugars in the red blood cells.
"why must we accept as normal what we find in a race of sick and weakened human beings?"
according to usda biochemist richard anderson, refined sugar may also impair the absorption of trace minerals like copper and chromium present in some of the other foods we have eaten.
"why must we accept as normal what we find in a race of sick and  weakened human beings?"
but huge production of insulin can not be stopped in the same moment as sugar stop coming in the bloodstream.
get to know some new foods that have a subtle sweet taste from natural sugars.
sugar of all kinds-natural sugars, such as those in honey and fruit (fructose), as well as the refined white stuff (sucrose)-tends to arrest the secretion of gastric juices and have an inhibiting effect on the stomach's natural ability to move.
all foods contain some nutrients in the way of proteins, carbohydrates, vitamins or minerals, or all of these.
if chemists want to use these hermetic terms in their laboratories when they talk to one another, fine.
take the load off  now by eliminating sugar in all forms and guises, starting with that soda pop  you have in your hand.
barley malt is a good substitute for brown and white sugar.
"made from natural ingredients", the television sugar-pushers
brown rice syrup  (rice malt) is made from (yeast culture) fermented brown rice and sprouted whole  barley.
an overabundance of white cells occurs, and the creation of tissue becomes slower.
as a steady diet, sugar is worse than nothing.
the best scientific names that money could buy have been hired, in the  hope that they could one day come up with something at least pseudoscientific  in the way of glad tidings about sugar.
the physician and priest handled the dirty work of street sweeping in return for royal favours.
insulin also promotes the storage of fat, so when you eat sweets high in sugar and fat, you're making way for rapid weight gain and elevated triglyceride levels, both of which have been linked to cardiovascular disease.
in 1957, dr william coda martin tried to answer the question: when  is a food a food and when is it a poison?
he laid out a sweeping permanent injunction against sugar  in all forms and guises.
it is sweeter and higher in calories than refined white sugar.
however, the unrefined  simple fruit sweeteners have less impact on brain chemistry because they are  high in the sugar fructose, which does not affect serotonin levels.
additional information on sugar this page is not only about white sugar.
this leads to adrenal fatigue and in turn makes blood sugar ups and  downs ever more pronounced.
the results were so startling that the laboratories double-checked their techniques, then apologised for what they believed to be incorrect readings.
in the 1940s, dr john tintera rediscovered the vital importance of the endocrine system, especially the adrenal glands, in "pathological mentation"-or "brain boggling".
any diet which lumps all carbohydrates together is dangerous.
what good is it if the body is fed protein, only to have it putrefy in the gastrointestinal canal?
carbohydrates that ferment in the digestive tract are converted into alcohol and acetic acid, not digestible monosaccharides.
any diet which includes refined sugar and white flour, no matter what "scientific" name is applied to them, is dangerous.
adults purchase over 50% of all chocolate sold in usa.
refined sugars have been stripped of the vitamins, minerals, and fiber that were originally present before processing.
unhappily, we must remind ourselves that scientists today, and always, accomplish little without a sponsor.
try manna bread (tastes like a muffin but is made only from sprouted grains) or oatmilk.
dextrose, also called "corn sugar", is derived synthetically from  starch.
they raise  serotonin levels, which can leave you feeling drowsy.
the dead dogs in professor magendie's laboratory alerted the sugar industry  to the hazards of free scientific inquiry.
many people, therefore, have come to equate the word "natural" with "healthy".
dextrose, also called "corn sugar", is derived synthetically from starch.
the b vitamins play a major role in dividing glutamic acid into antagonistic-complementary compounds which produce a "proceed" or "control" response in the brain.
33 % complex carbohydrates (starch) 66 % maltose are made from dried brown rice syrup or a combination of dried brown rice syrup and powdered grape juice concentrate.
people qualify as healthy today if they can crawl out of bed, get to the office and sign in.
the natural ingredients are cane  and beets.
the physician and priest handled the dirty work of street  sweeping in return for royal favours.
in 1973, the sugar information foundation placed full-page advertisements in national magazines.
in orthomolecular psychiatry, dr pauling writes: "the functioning of the brain and nervous tissue is more sensitively dependent on the rate of chemical reactions than the functioning of other organs and tissues.
cott, allan, "orthomolecular approach to  the treatment of learning disabilities", synopsis of reprint article  issued by the huxley institute for biosocial research, new york.
while egas moniz of portugal was receiving a nobel prize for devising the lobotomy operation for the treatment of schizophrenia, tintera's reward was to be harassment and hounding by the pundits of organised medicine.
even refined sugar is made from natural  ingredients.
" the avant-garde of modern medicine has rediscovered what the lowly  sorceress learned long ago through painstaking study of nature.
cortisone  inhibits immune function.
sir frederick banting, the codiscoverer of insulin, noticed in 1929 in  panama that, among sugar plantation owners who ate large amounts of their  refined stuff, diabetes was common.
(dr h. curtis wood stresses this point in his 1971 book, overfed but undernourished.)
it is store food that has given us  store teeth.
grade a maple syrup has a  lighter color and flavor than grade b, which is darker with a stronger flavor.
shelton, h. m., food combining made easy,  shelton health school, texas, 1951, p. 32.
today, pioneers of orthomolecular psychiatry, such as dr abram hoffer, dr allan cott, dr a. cherkin as well as dr linus pauling, have confirmed that mental illness is a myth and that emotional disturbance can be merely the first symptom of the obvious inability of the human system to handle the stress of sugar dependency.
however, the unrefined simple fruit sweeteners have less impact on brain chemistry because they are high in the sugar fructose, which does not affect serotonin levels.
facts about white sugar consumption the average american consumes an astounding two pounds of sugar each week, which is not surprising considering that highly refined sugars in the forms of sucrose (table sugar), dextrose (corn sugar), and high-fructose corn syrup are being processed into so many foods such as bread, breakfast cereal, ketchup, mayonnaise, peanut butter, spaghetti sauce, and a plethora of microwave meals.
if you eat meat, you need sugar, and visa versa.
in 1958, time magazine reported that a harvard biochemist and his assistants had worked with myriads of mice for more than ten years, bankrolled by the sugar research foundation, inc. to the tune of $57,000, to find out how sugar causes dental cavities and how to prevent this.
1 % complex carbohydrates 96 % sucrose is a mixture of acid secretions from the glands of honeybees and nectar from flowers.
in 1973, the sugar information foundation placed full-page advertisements  in national magazines.
according to kathleen desmaisons in her book potatoes not prozac sugar  sensitive people , those who have a more volatile reaction to the substance,  usually have low levels of serotonin and low levels of beta endorphins.
at  the same time, the same dr rush was preaching that masturbation was the cause  of insanity!
the extra speed with which sucrose enters the bloodstream does  more harm than good.
cortisone inhibits immune function.
if you eat natural food of good quality, quantity tends to take care of  itself.
the body cannot utilize this refined starch and carbohydrate unless the depleted proteins, vitamins and minerals are present.
the body is treated like a cheque account.
however, the enzymes are generally destroyed by high heat causing the honey to lose nutritional properties when used in baking.
since the beginning of time, natural laws were observed, in both senses of that word, when it came to eating foods in combination.
kicking sugar and white flour and substituting whole grains, vegetables and  natural fruits in season, is the core of any sensible natural regimen.
crave it is one  thing-need it is another.
most modern research  in combining food is a laboured discovery of the things grandma took for  granted.
it leaves the basic cause untouched.
any diet which lumps all carbohydrates together is  dangerous.
the sugar  research foundation withdrew its support.
this condition is called hyperglycemia, and is one of the symptoms of diabetes.
but, says shelton, "the discomfort from accumulation of gas, the bad breath, and foul and unpleasant odors are as undesirable as are the poisons".
sugars increase our body's production of adrenaline by four times, which puts the body into a state of 'fight or flight' stress, without anything to fight or flee from , except the consumption of sugar.
hisnutrition  and physical degeneration: a comparison of primitive and modern diets and their  effects,6 which is illustrated with hundreds of photographs, was first  published in 1939.
so essential is balance to our bodies that we have many ways to provide against the sudden shock of a heavy intake of sugar.
dorland's definition of schizophrenia (bleuler's dementia praecox) includes  the phrase, "often recognized during or shortly after adolescence",  and further, in reference to hebephrenia and catatonia, "coming on soon  after the onset of puberty".
simple sugars are also called rapid sugars because they do not  need digestion and are absorbed rapidly in our bloodstream.
complex carbohydrates are a string of simple sugars (glucose) strung  together that must be broken back down into simple sugars before they can be  absorbed into the bloodstream; whereas simple sugars can go directly into the  bloodstream.
the sugar research foundation withdrew its support.
dieting to lose weight is as silly and dangerous as taking aspirin to relieve a headache before you know the reason for the headache.
as soon as refined, sugared foods were imported as a result of contact with "civilization", physical degeneration began in a way that was definitely observable within a single generation.
the more sugars you eat, the more vitamins and minerals you need.
"but it took world war i to bring this home.
a new type of store, the natural food store, has encouraged many to become dropouts from the supermarket.
"must we always  take it for granted that the present eating practices of civilized men are  normal?...
while the stomach is working on the animal protein and the refined starch in the bread, the addition of the sugar practically guarantees rapid acid fermentation under the conditions of warmth and moisture existing in the stomach.
price, weston a., nutrition and physical degeneration: a comparison of primitive and modern diets and their effects, the american academy of applied nutrition, california, 1939, 1948.
choosing natural sweeteners rich in complex carbohydrates and reading labels before buying a product will help you reduce your consumption of refined sugar.
the negativism, hyperactivity and obstinate resentment of discipline are absolute indications for at least the minimum laboratory tests: urinalysis, complete bloodcount, pbi determination, and the five-hour glucose tolerance test.
you might as well say everybody needs liquids every day.
once the doctor or the exorcist had been called in, he was under pressure to do something.
the level of beta endorphins have a direct impact on a person’s self  esteem, tolerance for pain, sense of connectiveness and to the ability to take  personal responsibility for action.
after being absorbed in our bloodstream, they rise blood glucose levels too  high.
if we do not burn off the fat through activity, it will start accumulating under our skin,in our lever in our arteries and other organs.
this is not necessarily so.
the chart (below) will help you modify your recipes when using natural sweeteners.
33 % or more complex carbohydrates 66 % maltose, fructose, glucose, and sucrose includes frozen juice concentrates such as grape or apple juice and refrigerated jars of fruit concentrates which are typically blends of juices such as peach, pear, and pineapple juice.
"in more than twenty years of psychiatric work," writes dr thomas szasz, "i have never known a clinical psychologist to report, on the basis of a projective test, that the subject is a normal, mentally healthy person.
to use  the word "sugar" to describe two substances which are far from being  identical, which have different chemical structures and which affect the body  in profoundly different ways compounds confusion.
sugars are not digested in the mouth, like cereals, or  in the stomach, like animal flesh.
however, when tintera  dared to suggest in a magazine of general circulation that "it is  ridiculous to talk of kinds of allergies when there is only one kind, which is  adrenal glands impaired...by sugar", he could no longer be ignored.
but what doth it profit someone if the theoretically required calories and nutrients are consumed daily, yet this random eat-on-the-run, snack-time collection of foods ferments and putrefies in the digestive tract?
it is delicious in hot breakfast cereals, cookies, breads, muffins, and recipes using carob.
33 % complex carbohydrates (starch) 66 % maltose granulated brown rice sweeteners are made from dried brown rice syrup or a combination of dried brown rice  syrup and powdered grape juice concentrate.
when gluttony and excess became widespread, religious codes and commandments were invoked against it.
so effective is the  purification process which sugar cane and beets undergo in the refineries that  sugar ends up as chemically pure as the morphine or the heroin a chemist has on  the laboratory shelves.
every grain  is like every other.
40 % complex carbohydrates (starch) 57 % maltose is made from (yeast culture) fermented whole barley which is sprouted to break down some of the carbohydrate into the simple sugar maltose.
at the same time, the same dr rush was preaching that masturbation was the cause of insanity!
humans  need sugar as much as they need the nicotine in tobacco.
refined sugar: the sweetest poison of all in 1957, dr william coda martin tried to answer the question: when is a food a food and when is it a poison?
what good is  it if the body is fed protein, only to have it putrefy in the gastrointestinal  canal?
fructose is fruit sugar.
honey does contain some b vitamins, minerals, and enzymes.
dr tintera finally insisted that all his patients submit to a four-hour glucose tolerance test (gtt) to find out whether or not they could handle sugar.
the "quick" energy claim the sugar pushers talk about, which drives reluctant doughboys over the top and drives children up the wall, is based on the fact that refined sucrose is not digested in the mouth or the stomach but passes directly to the lower intestines and thence to the bloodstream.
if a weasel-worded statement like that was quoted, one can be sure
sucrose contains caloric energy, period.
too much sugar makes one sleepy; our ability to calculate and remember is  lost.
sugar taken every day produces a continuously overacid condition, and more  and more minerals are required from deep in the body in the attempt to rectify  the imbalance.
don't buy anything unless it says on the label prominently, in plain english:  "no sugar added".
company info contact us purchase of any electronic instrument (gb-4000, abpa,  life force 2000) includes free access to our private members area  which  includes file downloads, e-books, and much more.
the more that the scientists disappointed them, the more the sugar pushers  had to rely on the ad men.
if , after reading those facts you feel to stop eating sugar , we are  recommending next alternatives: dry fruit, fresh fruit, fresh fruit juice,  resins, apple syrup, rice  malt, barley malt.
a very inexpensive way to kill yourself.
allergic souls had  been entertaining each other for years with tall tales of exotic  allergies-everything from horse feathers to lobster tails.
"no food of our everyday diet is purer," we were assured.
when proteins are digested, they are broken down into amino acids, which are usable substances-nutriments.
the grain syrups: barley malt and brown rice syrup, contain  complex carbohydrates besides some simple sugars.
the material covered the period from the mid-18th century to 1940.
the sugar pushers have been harping on the  energy-building power of sucrose for years because it contains nothing else.
they boasted there were 2,500 calories in a pound of sugar.
sugars inhibit the function of our immune system, and increase diseases caused by poor immune function, such as colds, flu, aids, allergies, infections, ...
thirty­five to 50 gallons of  sap are boiled to produce one gallon of maple syrup.
birds have been  observed eating insects at one period in the day and seeds at another.
however, when tintera dared to suggest in a magazine of general circulation that "it is ridiculous to talk of kinds of allergies when there is only one kind, which is adrenal glands impaired...by sugar", he could no longer be ignored.
in addition, sugar is worse than nothing because it drains and leaches the body of precious vitamins and minerals through the demand its digestion, detoxification and elimination make upon one's entire system.
allergic souls had been entertaining each other for years with tall tales of exotic allergies-everything from horse feathers to lobster tails.
avoid it if you have candida albicans (yeast) problem !
the protocols of modern science have  compounded the costs of scientific inquiry.
the circulatory and lymphatic systems are invaded, and the quality of the red corpuscles starts to change.
the several  types of carbohydrates are added together for an overall carbohydrate total.
other  animals tend to eat one food at a time.
many people, therefore, have come to equate the word  "natural" with "healthy".
among native cane-cutters, who only got to chew the raw cane, he saw no diabetes.
in almost all discussions on drug addiction, alcoholism and schizophrenia,  it is claimed that there is no definite constitutional type that falls prey to  these afflictions.
the author and the publishers don't tell you.
when honey is labeled pure, this means that it is in its natural state (stolen directly from the bees who made it), with no adulteration with sucrose to stretch it and no harmful chemical residues which may have been sprayed on the flowers.
the body does establish a tolerance for these poisons, just as it adjusts gradually to an intake of heroin.
"the great confinement of the insane", as one historian calls it,10  began in the late 17th century, after sugar consumption in britain had zoomed  in 200 years from a pinch or two in a barrel of beer, here and there, to more  than two million pounds per year.
mccollum, elmer verner,a history of nutrition: the sequence of ideas in nutritional investigation, houghton mifflin co., boston, 1957, p. 87.
the natural ingredients are cane and beets.
over and over, he  emphasised that improvement, alleviation, palliation or cure was  "dependent upon the restoration of the normal function of the total  organism".
one lump of sugar in your coffee after a sandwich is enough to turn your  stomach into a fermenter.
dorland's definition of schizophrenia (bleuler's dementia praecox) includes the phrase, "often recognized during or shortly after adolescence", and further, in reference to hebephrenia and catatonia, "coming on soon after the onset of puberty".
price, weston a., nutrition and physical degeneration: a comparison of primitive and modern diets  and their effects, the american academy of applied nutrition, california,  1939, 1948.
when the researchers reported their findings in the dental association journal, their source of money dried up.
the dead dogs in professor magendie's laboratory alerted the sugar industry to the hazards of free scientific inquiry.
any diet or regimen undertaken with any objective short of restoration of total health of your body is dangerous.
read food and healing, sugar blues, or potatoes not prozac more about sugar: sugars are classified as either simple or complex carbohydrates.
there is no excess for  other added carbohydrates.
" when starches and complex sugars (like those in honey and fruits) are  digested, they are broken down into simple sugars called  "monosaccharides", which are usable substances-nutriments.
from the days of the persian empire to our own, sugar  has usually been used to hop up the flavour of other food and drink, as an  ingredient in the kitchen or as a condiment at the table.
physically: any substance which inhibits the activity of a catalyst which is a  minor substance, chemical or enzyme that activates a reaction.
tintera, john w., hypoadrenocorticism, adrenal metabolic  research society of the hypoglycemia foundation, inc., mt vernon, new york,  1969.
he learned not to eat that way.
when taken alone, they pass quickly through  the stomach into the small intestine.
it has long been our goal to persuade  every physician, whether oriented toward psychiatry, genetics or physiology, to  recognise that one type of endocrine individual is involved in the majority of  these cases: the hypoadrenocortic.15 tintera published several epochal medical papers.
when proteins are taken with sugar, they putrefy; they are broken down into a variety of ptomaines and leucomaines, which are nonusable substances-poisons.
all it took to be incarcerated was a complaint from parents,  relatives or the omnipotent parish priest.
" the avant-garde of modern medicine has rediscovered what the lowly sorceress learned long ago through painstaking study of nature.
but that four-letter word "from" hardly suggests that 90  per cent of the cane and beet have been removed.
sugar causes irritation and weakening of the mucous membranes of the body and robs the teeth, bones and blood of a great percentage of their minerals.
even if they do, it will be less dangerous than a few ounces of  sugar.
it could weaken pancreas and result in  diabetes.
if you ever eat  with a traditional japanese family and you violate this order, the orientals  (if your friends) will correct you courteously but firmly.
there is no excess for other added carbohydrates.
"inquiry into the dietary history of patients diagnosed as  schizophrenic reveals the diet of their choice is rich in sweets, candy, cakes,  coffee, caffeinated beverages, and foods prepared with sugar.
sir frederick banting, the codiscoverer of insulin, noticed in 1929 in panama that, among sugar plantation owners who ate large amounts of their refined stuff, diabetes was common.
it is then ground and heated to make a thick syrup.
gluttony is a capital sin in most religions; but there are no specific religious warnings or commandments against refined sugar because sugar abuse-like drug abuse-did not appear on the world scene until centuries after holy books had gone to press.
when the committee on west india made its fourth report to the house of commons, one member of parliament, john curwin, reported that he had tried to feed sugar and molasses to calves without success.
a glucose tolerance test at any of these periods could alert parents and  physicians and could save innumerable hours and small fortunes spent in looking  into the child's psyche and home environment for maladjustments of questionable  significance in the emotional development of the average child.
the mind truly boggles when one glances over what passes for medical  history.
it is often said that surgeons bury their mistakes.
they are not much better then white or brown sugar !!!
it makes possible more flimflam from the sugar pushers who tell us how important sugar is as an essential component of the human body, how it is oxidized to produce energy, how it is metabolized to produce warmth, and so on.
it does not mean that the honey is free from minerals like iodine, iron, calcium, phosphorus or multiple vitamins.
it is not much better then white or brown sugar!!!
160,  april 19, 1968, pp.
sugar and mental health
it is only a symptom, a sign, a warning that your body is out of order.
one soda with a hamburger is enough to turn your  stomach into a still.
when he tried and failed, the  poor patient had to be put away.
when grandma warned that sugared cookies before meals "will spoil your supper", she knew what she was talking about.
since the liver's capacity is limited, a daily intake of refined sugar (above the required amount of natural sugar) soon makes the liver expand like a balloon.
excessive sugar has a strong mal-effect on the functioning of the brain.
hisnutrition and physical degeneration: a comparison of primitive and modern diets and their effects,6 which is illustrated with hundreds of photographs, was first published in 1939.
this incident occurred when a vessel carrying a cargo of sugar was  shipwrecked in 1793.
they cannot get sufficient oxygen to survive and function normally.
to be metabolized, sugars must draw on our body's stores of these nutrients.
heroin, too, could be  advertised as being made from natural ingredients.
what nutritional virtue this abstract chemical purity represents, the sugar pushers never tell us.
people weren't eating it fast enough.
the eminent french physiologist f. magendie was inspired by that incident  to conduct a series of experiments with animals, the results of which he  published in 1816.
its a simple sugar that tastes much like brown or turbinado sugar;  however, its less refined and contains more vitamins and minerals.
if you want to avoid sugar in the supermarket, there is only one sure way.
one soda with a hamburger is enough to turn your stomach into a still.
when the word "sugar" can mean the glucose in your blood as well as the sucrose in your coca-cola, it's great for the sugar pushers but it's rough on everybody else.
the parasympathetic nervous system is affected; and organs governed by  it, such as the small brain, become inactive or paralyzed.
if or pancreas function as it should, it will produce enough insulin to remove excess glucose from our bloodstream with amazing efficiency.
honey does  contain some b vitamins, minerals, and enzymes.
changing the quality of your carbohydrates can change the quality of your health and life.
when he tried and failed, the poor patient had to be put away.
when sugars are eaten with other foods-perhaps meat and bread in a sandwich-they are held up in the stomach for a while.
the use of the word "carbohydrate" to describe sugar is deliberately misleading.
that is beginning of fatty degeneration.
"dietitians have known the high food value of sugar  for a long time," said an industry tract of the 1920s.
the easiest way of decreasing consumption of sugar is by decreasing  consumption of meat.
from that day to this, the sugar industry has invested millions of dollars in behind-the-scenes, subsidized science.
but that four-letter word "from" hardly suggests that 90 per cent of the cane and beet have been removed.
when the liver is  filled to its maximum capacity, the excess glycogen is returned to the blood in  the form of fatty acids.
sugars are not digested in the mouth, like cereals, or in the stomach, like animal flesh.
if they can't make it, call the doctor to qualify for sick pay, hospitalization, rest cure-anything from a day's pay without working to an artificial kidney, courtesy of the taxpayers.
all the dogs wasted and died.3 the shipwrecked sailors and the french physiologist's experimental dogs proved the same point.
these conditions might seem to arise or become aggravated at puberty, but probing into the patient's past will frequently reveal indications which were present at birth, during the first year of life, and through the preschool and grammar school years.
deposit calories (like dollars) and withdraw energy.
it is also important to generally decrease consumption of concentrated sweeteners.
sugar and water can kill you.
that is called hypoglycemia, and symptoms may include depression, dizziness, crying spells, aggression, insomnia, weakness, and even loss of consciousness.
brown rice sweeteners have a very mild flavor and can be used to replace white or brown sugar in baked goods.
according to william duffy in "sugar blues" the difference  between sugar addiction and narcotic addiction is largely one of degree.
gluttony is a capital  sin in most religions; but there are no specific religious warnings or  commandments against refined sugar because sugar abuse-like drug abuse-did not  appear on the world scene until centuries after holy books had gone to press.
people have been bamboozled into thinking of their bodies the way they think of their cheque accounts.
we have no right to be surprised when we read the introduction to mccollum's a history of nutrition and find that "the author and publishers are  indebted to the nutrition foundation, inc., for a grant provided to meet a  portion of the cost of publication of this book".
his working definition of  "poison" was: "medically: any substance applied to the body,  ingested or developed within the body, which causes or may cause disease.
harmful to humans and animals shipwrecked sailors who ate and drank nothing but sugar and rum for nine  days surely went through some of this trauma; the tales they had to tell  created a big public relations problem for the sugar pushers.
the mental hospital succeeded  witch-hunting and heresy-hounding as a more enlightened and humane method of  social control.
one thing is common characteristic for all those sweeteners: they are concentrated and composed of simple sugars (monosaccharide and disaccharide).
all it took to be incarcerated was a complaint from parents, relatives or the omnipotent parish priest.
caloric energy and habit-forming taste: that's what sucrose has, and nothing  else.
while tintera's sweeping implication of sugar as a cause of what was called "schizophrenia" could be confined to medical journals, he was let alone, ignored.
"but that figure serves to point out how inexpensive sugar  is as an energy-building food.
no useless bones like in meat, no grounds like coffee.
natural sweeteners retain most of their vitamins and minerals, and many contain complex carbohydrates.
cardiovascular complications that follow excess glucose or fats kill  many diabetics.
when refined sugar is taken daily, these bacteria wither and die, and our stock of b vitamins gets very low.
any diet which does not consider the quality of carbohydrates and  makes the crucial life-and-death distinction between natural, unrefined  carbohydrates like whole grains and vegetables and man-refined carbohydrates  like sugar and white flour is dangerous.
how to stop eating sugar ?
although honey is a natural sweetener, it is considered a refined sugar because 96% of dry matter are simple sugars: fructose, glucose and sucrose.
granulated cane juice can be used as a substitute for both white and brown sugar, but it is still rich in sucrose.
plain water can keep you alive for quite some time.
the  dictionary gives an even broader definition for "poison": "to  exert a harmful influence on, or to pervert".
thirtyfive to 50 gallons of sap are boiled to produce one gallon of maple syrup.
obesity is talked about and treated as a disease in 20th-century america.
it took them ten years to discover that there was no way to prevent sugar  causing dental decay.
almost universally, the statement is made that all of these  individuals are emotionally immature.
0 % complex carbohydrates 96 % sucrose is a byproduct of the refined white, brown, and turbinado sugars.
we have no right to be surprised when we read the introduction to mccollum's a history of nutrition and find that "the author and publishers are indebted to the nutrition foundation, inc., for a grant provided to meet a portion of the cost of publication of this book".
beginning with world war i, the sugar pushers coated their propaganda with a preparedness pitch.
her explanation might not have satisfied a chemist but, as with many traditional axioms from the mosaic law on kosher food and separation in the kitchen, such rules are based on years of trial and error and are apt to be right on the button.
these toxic metabolites  interfere with the respiration of the cells.
by william dufty © 1975 extracted/edited from his booksugar blues first published  by chilton book co.
it has been proved, however, that (1) sugar is a major factor in dental decay; (2) sugar in a person's diet does cause overweight; (3) removal of sugar from diets has cured symptoms of crippling, worldwide diseases such as diabetes, cancer and heart illnesses.
his first prescribed item of treatment was diet.
fruit concentrates are thicker than fruit juice concentrates and are made by cooking whole fruits at very low temperatures until they have been reduced to a thick syrup.
nature supplies these elements in each plant in quantities sufficient to  metabolize the carbohydrate in that particular plant.
" "pure" is a favorite adjective of the sugar pushers because it means one thing to the chemists and another thing to the ordinary mortals.
serious trouble can happen  if the balance is off which is easy since sugar is addictive, like a drug.
no animal doctor could be found in britain who would recommend sugar for the  care and feeding of cows, pigs or sheep.
"but that figure serves to point out how inexpensive sugar is as an energy-building food.
"let us go to the ignorant savage, consider his way of eating and be  wise," harvard professor ernest hooten said in apes, men, and morons.7  "let us cease pretending that toothbrushes and toothpaste are any more  important than shoe brushes and shoe polish.
the level of glucose in their blood is apt to be low because they are addicted to sucrose.
her explanation might not  have satisfied a chemist but, as with many traditional axioms from the mosaic  law on kosher food and separation in the kitchen, such rules are based on years  of trial and error and are apt to be right on the button.
use of the word "carbohydrate" as a "scientific" word for sugar has become a standard defense strategy with sugar pushers and many of their medical apologists.
let us leave aside  for the moment the known effect of sugar (long-term and short-term) on the  entire system and concentrate on the effect of sugar taken in combination with  other daily foods.
szasz, thomas s.,the manufacture of madness: a comparative study of the inquisition and the mental health movement, harper & row, new york, 1970.
after being absorbed in our bloodstream, they rise blood glucose levels too high.
many of our principal foods are converted into glucose in our bodies.
" in megavitamin b3 therapy for schizophrenia, dr abram hoffer notes: "patients are also advised to follow a good nutritional program with restriction of sucrose and sucrose-rich foods."
hoffer, abram, "megavitamin b3 therapy for schizophrenia",canadian psychiatric association journal , vol.
it is one of the best of all concentrated sweeteners !
if sugar were seven cents a pound, it would cost less than $35 for a whole  year."
(normal brain function is rarely thought of as being as biologic as digestion.)
craving for sugar and sweets is a symptom of chromium and vanadium  deficiency.
they were in a wasted condition due to starvation, having consumed nothing but sugar and rum.
wet nurses with their babies,  pregnant youngsters, retarded or defective children, senior citizens,  paralytics, epileptics, prostitutes or raving lunatics-anyone wanted off the  streets and out of sight was put away.
many people-doctors included-assume that if weight is lost, fat is lost.
0 % 96 % simple sugars, fructose, glucose, and sucrose granulated cane juice is made from organically grown sugar cane juice that has been filtered and  dehydrated.
to  be metabolized, sugars must draw on our body's stores of these nutrients.
sugar taken every day produces a continuously overacid condition, and more and more minerals are required from deep in the body in the attempt to rectify the imbalance.
it can leach b, c, d vitamins, and those minerals: calcium, phosphorous, iron, selenium, zinc, chromium, vanadium, tin, boron, bismuth, rear earth elements etc. from our teeth, bones, and tissues.
meanwhile, when sugar eaters did not manifest obvious terminal physical symptoms and the physicians were professionally bewildered, patients were no longer pronounced bewitched, but mad, insane, emotionally disturbed.
initially, it is  stored in the liver in the form of glucose (glycogen).
unhappily, we must remind ourselves that scientists today, and always,  accomplish little without a sponsor.
any diet which does not consider the quality of carbohydrates and makes the crucial life-and-death distinction between natural, unrefined carbohydrates like whole grains and vegetables and man-refined carbohydrates like sugar and white flour is dangerous.
b vitamins are also manufactured  by symbiotic bacteria which live in our intestines.
wet nurses with their babies, pregnant youngsters, retarded or defective children, senior citizens, paralytics, epileptics, prostitutes or raving lunatics-anyone wanted off the streets and out of sight was put away.
foul stools, loose stools, impacted stools, pebbly stools, much foul  gas, colitis, haemorrhoids, bleeding with stools, the need for toilet paper are  swept into the orbit of the normal.
"you don't have to sort it like beans, wash it like rice.
sweet molasses or light molasses is the liquid left after the first extraction of sugar crystals.
note: when using thick liquid sweeteners, heat the jar in hot water for five minutes to make pouring easier and spray measuring cups with vegetable spray to prevent sticking.
consequently, consuming large amounts of refined sugars places an extra  burden on the body to supply the nutrients, specifically the b vitamins,  chromium, magnesium, and zinc, needed to convert glucose (blood sugar) into  energy.
in the experiments, he fed dogs a diet of sugar or olive oil and water.
a diet rich in sugars will catch our pancreas and adrenal glands in a  biochemical see-saw, overworking them.
it happens to be a front organization for the leading sugar-pushing conglomerates in the food business, including the american sugar refining company, coca-cola, pepsi-cola, curtis candy co., general foods, general mills, nestlé co., pet milk co. and sunshine biscuits-about 45 such companies in all.
brown sugar is white sugar with  molasses and/or caramel coloring added.
ok for sick people but not too much !
"dietitians have known the high food value of sugar for a long time," said an industry tract of the 1920s.
shipwrecked sailors who ate and drank nothing but sugar and rum for nine days surely went through some of this trauma; the tales they had to tell created a big public relations problem for the sugar pushers.
and it so happens that sugar is the best-tasting  carbohydrate."
these foods,  which stimulate the adrenals, should be eliminated or severely restricted.
professor mccollum failed to record a single controlled scientific experiment with sugar between 1816 and 1940.
he could be tolerated-if he stayed in his assigned territory, endocrinology.
finally, in order to protect the blood, so much calcium is taken from the bones and teeth that decay and general weakening begin.
when starches and sugars are taken together and undergo fermentation, they are broken down into carbon dioxide, acetic acid, alcohol and water.
through the centuries, troubled souls have been barbecued for  bewitchment, exorcised for possession, locked up for insanity, tortured for  masturbatory madness, psychiatrised for psychosis, lobotomised for  schizophrenia.
over and over  again, he said that "the importance of diet cannot be  overemphasised".
even when he suggested that alcoholism was related to adrenals that had been whipped by sugar abuse, they let him alone; because the medicos had decided there was nothing in alcoholism for them except aggravation, they were satisfied to abandon it to alcoholics anonymous.
make pause between fruit and other food never eat fruit together with a rest of food make treats like cookies sweetened with rice syrup (a honey like sweetener  made from cultured rice) or barley malt
it is a key material in the metabolism of all plants and animals.
over and over again, he said that "the importance of diet cannot be overemphasised".
barley malt is a good substitute for  brown and white sugar.
however, the enzymes are  generally destroyed by high heat causing the honey to lose nutritional  properties when used in baking.
hooton, ernest a., apes, men, and morons, putnam, new york, 1937.
professor mccollum failed to record a single controlled scientific experiment  with sugar between 1816 and 1940.
there is nothing new about that.
" sure, the body can get rid of poisons through the urine and the pores; the  amount of poisons in the urine is taken as an index to what's going on in the  intestine.
if  you are a vegetarian and eat mostly carbohydrates, the effect of extra sugar is  heightened.
the eminent french physiologist f. magendie was inspired by that incident to conduct a series of experiments with animals, the results of which he published in 1816.
grade a maple syrup has a lighter color and flavor than grade b, which is darker with a stronger flavor.
if a weasel-worded statement like that was quoted, one can be sure no animal doctor could be found in britain who would recommend sugar for the care and feeding of cows, pigs or sheep.
the whole body is affected by their reduced ability, and abnormal blood pressure is created.
"you need  carbohydrates.
how many patients would have listened if the local healer had  told them that the only thing ailing them was sugar blues?
fruit concentrates are thicker than  fruit juice concentrates and are made by cooking whole fruits at very low  temperatures until they have been reduced to a thick syrup.
the parasympathetic nervous system is affected; and organs governed by it, such as the small brain, become inactive or paralyzed.
" when the researchers bite the hands that feed them, and the news gets out, it's embarrassing all around.
complex carbohydrates are a string of simple sugars (glucose) strung together that must be broken back down into simple sugars before they can be absorbed into the bloodstream; whereas simple sugars can go directly into the bloodstream.
he  learned not to eat that way.
fats can be  deposited in the cells of our liver, heart, arteries, fat tissues, kidneys,  muscles, and other organs.
inflammatory diseases of the breathing and digestive organs result from the use of brown and white sugar.
had anything come of that, you can be sure the west indian sugar merchants would have spread the news around the world.
complex carbohydrates tend to be absorbed more slowly,  lessening the impact on blood sugar levels.
pauling, linus, "orthomolecular psychiatry",science, vol.
as these are depleted, our body becomes less able to carry out other functions that require minerals and vitamins to be present: to metabolize fats and cholesterol; to convert cholesterol into bile acids for removal from our body through the stool; or to burn-off excess fats as heat or increased activity.
"to derive sustenance from foods eaten, they must be digested," shelton warned years ago.
we have already started walking our way to cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases.
sweet molasses or light molasses is the liquid left after the first extraction  of sugar crystals.
"inquiry into the dietary history of patients diagnosed as schizophrenic reveals the diet of their choice is rich in sweets, candy, cakes, coffee, caffeinated beverages, and foods prepared with sugar.
finally, in order to protect the blood, so much calcium is taken  from the bones and teeth that decay and general weakening begin.
however, one is led to believe that the manufacturers are talking about the sucrose which is made in their refineries.
while some witches may have survived dunking, no 'madman' survives psychological testing...there is no behavior or person that a modern psychiatrist cannot plausibly diagnose as abnormal or ill."
birds have been observed eating insects at one period in the day and seeds at another.
chemists add to the confusion by using the word "sugar" to describe an entire group of substances that are similar but not identical.
to much insulin will then cause too rapid fall of glucose level in the blood.
god to use in special cures, but not as a every  day food !
since the improved labeling of nutritional properties  was required on packages and cans, refined carbohydrates like sugar are lumped  together with those carbohydrates which may or may not be refined.
"but it took  world war i to bring this home.
glucose is a sugar found usually with other sugars, in fruits and  vegetables.
try manna bread (tastes like a muffin but is made only from sprouted  grains) or oatmilk.
people who live under so-called backward primitive conditions had excellent teeth and wonderful general health.
the b vitamins play a major role in dividing glutamic acid  into antagonistic-complementary compounds which produce a "proceed"  or "control" response in the brain.
what was meant by purity, besides the unarguable fact that all vitamins, minerals, salts, fibres and proteins had been removed in the refining process?
a glucose tolerance test at any of these periods could alert parents and physicians and could save innumerable hours and small fortunes spent in looking into the child's psyche and home environment for maladjustments of questionable significance in the emotional development of the average child.
sugar manufacturers keep trying, hoping and contributing  generous research grants to colleges and universities; but the research  laboratories never come up with anything solid the manufacturers can use.
physically: any substance which inhibits the activity of a catalyst which is a minor substance, chemical or enzyme that activates a reaction.
foucault, michel,madness and civilization: a history of insanity in the age of reason, translated by r. howard, pantheon, new york, 1965.
it is delicious in hot breakfast cereals, cookies,  breads, muffins, and recipes using carob.
but what doth it profit someone if the theoretically required calories and  nutrients are consumed daily, yet this random eat-on-the-run, snack-time  collection of foods ferments and putrefies in the digestive tract?
because of its mild taste, it can be used as a substitute for white or brown sugar.
in 200 cases under treatment for  hypoadrenocorticism (the lack of adequate adrenal cortical hormone production  or imbalance among these hormones), he discovered that the chief complaints of  his patients were often similar to those found in persons whose systems were  unable to handle sugar: fatigue, nervousness, depression, apprehension, craving  for sweets, inability to handle alcohol, inability to concentrate, allergies,  low blood pressure.
1 % 96 % sucrose honey is a mixture of acid secretions from the glands of honeybees and nectar  from flowers.
by that time, physicians in london had begun to observe and record terminal physical signs and symptoms of the "sugar blues".
the negativism, hyperactivity and obstinate resentment of discipline are  absolute indications for at least the minimum laboratory tests: urinalysis,  complete bloodcount, pbi determination, and the five-hour glucose tolerance  test.
how many patients would have listened if the local healer had told them that the only thing ailing them was sugar blues?
"let us go to the ignorant savage, consider his way of eating and be wise," harvard professor ernest hooten said in apes, men, and morons.7 "let us cease pretending that toothbrushes and toothpaste are any more important than shoe brushes and shoe polish.
natural sweetener % complex carbohydrates in dry matter (good ones) % simple sugars in dry matter (bad ones)
from that day to this, the sugar  industry has invested millions of dollars in behind-the-scenes, subsidized  science.
when refined sugar is taken  daily, these bacteria wither and die, and our stock of b vitamins gets very  low.
they're talking about glucose, of course, which is manufactured in our bodies.
refined  sugars such as white, brown, and turbinado sugars, and the unrefined simple  sugars, such as fruit sweeteners and concentrated fruit juices, are all simple  carbohydrates.
even refined sugar is made from natural ingredients.
any diet or regimen undertaken with any objective short of restoration of  total health of your body is dangerous.
from that time until the 20 century, as the consumption of sugar went up and up-especially in the cities-so did the number of people who were put away in the general hospital.
why sugar is toxic to the body
these  begin to slow down; finally their tissues degenerate and turn to fat.
changing  the quality of your carbohydrates can change the quality of your health and  life.
the allergists had a great racket going for themselves.
when you substitute a liquid sweetener for a dry one or vice versa, you will have to adjust the recipe to end up with the right batter consistency.
along comes someone who says none of this matters: take them off sugar, and keep them off it.
when he got a stomach ache from combining raw fruit  with grain, or honey with porridge, he didn't reach for an antacid tablet.
thus, the effect of the label is to hide the sugar content from the unwary  buyer.
naturally, the attempt to feed livestock with sugar and molasses in england in 1808 was a disaster.
unless you've taken too much insulin and, in a state of insulin shock, need  sugar as an antidote, hardly anyone ever has cause to take sugar alone.
it is store food that has given us store teeth.
it could weaken pancreas and result in diabetes.
humans need sugar as much as they need the nicotine in tobacco.
when blood sugar spikes it signals the adrenal glands to release more  adrenaline.
in 1958, time magazine reported that a harvard  biochemist and his assistants had worked with myriads of mice for more than ten  years, bankrolled by the sugar research foundation, inc. to the tune of  $57,000, to find out how sugar causes dental cavities and how to prevent this.
while preparing his epochal volume, a history of nutrition, published in 1957, professor e. v. mccollum (johns hopkins university), sometimes called america's foremost nutritionist and certainly a pioneer in the field, reviewed approximately 200,000 published scientific papers, recording experiments with food, their properties, their utilization and their effects on animals and men.
natural food can be instrumental in restoring  health.
glucose  is always present in our bloodstream, and it is often called "blood  sugar".
if or pancreas function as it should, it will produce enough insulin  to remove excess glucose from our bloodstream with amazing efficiency.
one early commentator called them "hired consciences".
turbinado sugar, also called raw sugar,  is slightly less refined and contains a trace amount of a few minerals.
we have already  started walking our way to cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases.
among native cane-cutters, who only got to  chew the raw cane, he saw no diabetes.
(normal brain  function is rarely thought of as being as biologic as digestion.)
obesity is not a disease.
the sugar pushers have been harping on the energy-building power of sucrose for years because it contains nothing else.
a new type of store, the natural food store, has encouraged many to become  dropouts from the supermarket.
take the load off now by eliminating sugar in all forms and guises, starting with that soda pop you have in your hand.
natural food can be instrumental in restoring health.
since the late 1960s, millions of americans have returned to natural food.
to use the word "sugar" to describe two substances which are far from being identical, which have different chemical structures and which affect the body in profoundly different ways compounds confusion.
one of the aspects of fatty degeneration is deposition of visible fat in places where it is not normally found in healthy people.
as a matter of fact, i have been urging that these four  tests be routine for all patients, even before a history or physical  examination is undertaken.
natural sweeteners retain most of their vitamins and minerals, and many  contain complex carbohydrates.
this  interferes with the function of a part of the body and is the beginning of  degenerative disease.
when the committee on west india made its fourth report  to the house of commons, one member of parliament, john curwin, reported that  he had tried to feed sugar and molasses to calves without success.
it took them ten years to discover that there was no way to prevent sugar causing dental decay.
through the centuries, troubled souls have been barbecued for bewitchment, exorcised for possession, locked up for insanity, tortured for masturbatory madness, psychiatrised for psychosis, lobotomised for schizophrenia.
what mystified them was the low, flat curves derived from disturbed, early  adolescents.
"to derive sustenance from foods eaten, they must be digested,"  shelton warned years ago.
the opium poppy is as natural as the sugar beet.
this interferes with the function of a part of the body and is the beginning of degenerative disease.
people who kick sucrose addiction and stay off sucrose find that the glucose level of their blood returns to normal and stays there.
it has been proved, however, that (1) sugar is a major factor in dental  decay; (2) sugar in a person's diet does cause overweight; (3) removal of sugar  from diets has cured symptoms of crippling, worldwide diseases such as  diabetes, cancer and heart illnesses.
it so happens that many people find champagne is the best-tasting liquid.
what, you might ask, is the nutrition foundation, inc.?
foucault, michel,madness and civilization: a history of insanity in the age  of reason, translated by r. howard, pantheon, new york, 1965.
any diet or regimen undertaken for the single purpose of losing weight is dangerous, by definition.
turbinado sugar, also called raw sugar, is slightly less refined and contains a trace amount of a few minerals.
today, pioneers of orthomolecular psychiatry, such as dr abram hoffer, dr  allan cott, dr a. cherkin as well as dr linus pauling, have confirmed that  mental illness is a myth and that emotional disturbance can be merely the first  symptom of the obvious inability of the human system to handle the stress of  sugar dependency.
invariably, the research results are bad news.
according to kathleen desmaisons in her book potatoes not prozac sugar sensitive people , those who have a more volatile reaction to the substance, usually have low levels of serotonin and low levels of beta endorphins.
here are some suggestions to make the withdrawal easier: as you are reducing the amount of sugar also reduce the amount of meat you are eating eat a bit of ginger before meals taking colloidal minerals that contain trace minerals chromium and vanadium would solve problem of craving for sugar and sweets !
nature supplies these elements in each plant in quantities sufficient to metabolize the carbohydrate in that particular plant.
dr price took the whole world as his laboratory.
in time, some of the cells die.
" when the researchers bite the hands that feed them, and the news gets out,  it's embarrassing all around.
many overweight people are  undernourished.
he suggested that perhaps someone should try again by sneaking sugar and molasses into skimmed milk.
deposit proteins, carbohydrates, fats, vitamins and minerals-balanced quantitatively-and the result, theoretically, is a healthy body.
it  so happens that many people find champagne is the best-tasting liquid.
sugar causes irritation and weakening of the mucous membranes of the body  and robs the teeth, bones and blood of a great percentage of their minerals.
the law observed by orthodox jews prohibits many combinations at the same meal, especially flesh and dairy products.
even when he suggested that alcoholism was related to adrenals  that had been whipped by sugar abuse, they let him alone; because the medicos  had decided there was nothing in alcoholism for them except aggravation, they  were satisfied to abandon it to alcoholics anonymous.
with the exception of the water, all these are unusable substances-poisons.