many different sweeteners are available today, though they may become more  or less important in localization or energy descent situations.
xylitol, mannitol, and sorbitol, the sweet alcohols, are roughly as sweet as sugar and are useful both to sweeten food for diabetics and potentially as a tooth decay preventative.
inspection, now an optional event in new york state, may become especially important again if beekeepers have to rely on their own production of bees rather than importing new ones from the south.
a sugarhouse will need a dedicated  supply of wood (or other fuel), but that is frequently available in the same  areas as maple stands.[9] while sugar maples (acer saccharum) are the traditional tree for maple  syrup production, red, black, and some silver maples can also be tapped, as can  box elders and birches.
as many artificial sweeteners (notably neotame, aspartame, saccharin, and sucralose) are sweeter by volume than sugar, and store reasonably well, they may be easier trade goods than sugar itself.
some projects supporting local sweetener production already exist.
sorghum and stevia originated in far warmer climates than tompkins county  has to offer, but both are worth exploring in different contexts.
sorghum sweet sorghum, though traditionally grown further south, can produce a  syrup similar to molasses, as well as silage or forage for animals.
one of the most common complaints about the industrial age is its constant and seemingly ever-growing use of sweeteners.
while whole fruits are, of course, a delicious way to enjoy fruits, juicing and similar processes make it much easier for people to consume fruits that are bruised, damaged, or simply useful as a background sweetener rather than as the primary flavor.
many grains are bred  specifically to provide the enzymes needed for the malting process.
sugar beet field, sweden (original source, used under creative commons license from dag endresen.)
sugar  distribution and storage are similarly simple, as it is easily packed for safe  storage.
even in less extreme cases, sweeteners can certainly add enjoyment to foods otherwise too bitter or too bland to be attractive.
the plant stevia rebaudiana, originally from south america, has leaves that are  approximately 30 times sweeter than sugar, and its core sweetening compounds  are approximately 250 times sweeter.
inspection, now an optional  event in new york state, may become especially important again if beekeepers  have to rely on their own production of bees rather than importing new ones  from the south.
(the  byproducts are typically used as animal feed.)
corn-based sweeteners thrive today because of a combination of the import quotas noted above and subsidies for corn production.
artificial sweeteners if you count the extremely toxic "sugar of lead" (lead acetate),  artificial sweeteners have been around for thousands of years, though the  modern history usually begins with saccharin in 1879.
malting floor (original source, used under creative  commons license from chris sharp)
barley is the most common grain used for malting.
cornell's master beekeeper program and its work with maple products in the  arnot teaching and research forest focus on honey and maple syrup.
a typical corn wet milling plant in the united states spends approximately $20 to $30 million per year on energy.[7, page 3] figure 2.
this flexibility makes it simpler for beekeepers to inspect the hive, as well as to add and remove equipment to gather honey.
this gives bees a bit of a head start, and reinforcements in that foundation make it much easier to extract honey by spinning the frames mechanically.
malting grain is a fairly complex process involving drying, storing, adding water, partially germinating, and then processing and often mashing.
though sugar in the united states is expensive relative to sugar in the  rest of the world (roughly double the canadian price because of american import  quotas[5]) it remains a remarkably cheap commodity by historical measures.
because of disease issues, skeps are illegal in the us.
rain and snow can keep bees in their hives and prevent their collecting food, while drought can delay or hinder plants from flowering.
this flexibility makes it simpler for beekeepers to  inspect the hive, as well as to add and remove equipment to gather honey.
this destroys the comb, requiring the  bees to work harder to make new honey, but requires less dedicated equipment.
sugar and molasses sugar cane, a tropical plant, doesn't grow in central new york.
keeping hives alive has become more difficult in recent years with the spread of pests, notably varroa mites, but the infrastructure and learning investments required to become a successful beekeeper are still fairly small.
buy now and receive a 20% discount.
dent corn is converted  into corn starch by a wet millling process and then treated with enzymes to  produce corn (glucose) syrup.
lead acetate deserves special attention as a danger, as it is not difficult  to synthesize from lead and has commonly been used as an adulterant in foods  and drinks.
however, the quantity of sugar beets currently grown is small enough that the usda national agricultural statistics service[2] doesn't even offer sugar beets as a query option for new york.
they require more energy  input to preserve than do sugar or honey, but are easier to create with  ordinary pots or pans or with simple tools like steam juicers.
alcohol all of the natural sweeteners except stevia can be converted into alcohol  through fermentation, possibly followed by more energy-intensive distillation.
while dent corn can be grown locally, the industrial scale and energy  requirements of wet corn milling seem to put local corn syrup out of reach.
sap flows during the day, carrying sugar from the roots.
the more familiar perennial rhubarb also becomes far more enjoyable with sweetening.
sugar distribution and storage are similarly simple, as it is easily packed for safe storage.
diversion of sugarcane to ethanol production may also shrink the available supply of sugar substantially, also increasing the price.
cornell cooperative education offers sessions on fruit juices and preserving.
unlike cane, beets cannot easily be processed using their byproducts for fuel.
it can grow  as a window plant, getting the sun that it needs while avoiding the cold.
the harder challenge is the supply of bees and queens.
watching for symptoms and developing  testing protocols could become much more important if the price of sweeteners  climbs.
the bees build their own comb, and beekeepers who want to collect the honey press or cut the comb instead of spinning it.
for now,  sorghum seems useful primarily as a cover crop, with some potential for use as  a sweetener.
the asian long-horned beetle, already present in new  york city, attacks and weakens maple trees and a variety of other species.
competition between food and energy uses of sugar will likely increase demand (and prices) for sweeteners.
the asian long-horned beetle, already present in new york city, attacks and weakens maple trees and a variety of other species.
while these worked, they didn't allow beekeepers to inspect the hive for disease, and the hive usually had to be destroyed to retrieve the honey.
aronia melanocarpa is called "chokeberry" for a reason.
langstroth equipment does require a fairly substantial investment, and most beekeepers buy sturdy frames filled with wax or plastic foundation printed in a hex pattern.
an indoor wood stove already used for  heat can boil syrup at the household level, while a sugarhouse with vents is  likely a better idea for a larger pan.
as many artificial sweeteners (notably neotame, aspartame, saccharin, and  sucralose) are sweeter by volume than sugar, and store reasonably well, they  may be easier trade goods than sugar itself.
stevia is more promising because of its ability to grow as a houseplant, and could be an excellent target for cooperative extension projects and local nursery development.
while whole fruits are, of course, a delicious way to enjoy fruits, juicing and  similar processes make it much easier for people to consume fruits that are  bruised, damaged, or simply useful as a background sweetener rather than as the  primary flavor.
the flow of sap depends  on the weather, particularly on the contrast between daytime and night time  temperatures.
some  farmers are experimenting with it in tompkins county as a cover crop and animal  feed today, and it may be an appealing option if climate change extends the  growing season.
it may be possible to create a substantial sugar beet industry in new york  state—or it may make sense to count on sugar's relatively easy  tradability to keep it available.
this gives bees a bit of a head start, and reinforcements in that  foundation make it much easier to extract honey by spinning the frames  mechanically.
so long as beekeepers maintain precise distances between equipment inside of the hive, the bees will avoid gluing everything together.
high-fructose corn syrup (hfcs) is made by an  additional enzyme process to convert much of that glucose to fructose.[6]
the  foundation is generally manufactured, though it can be created on a smaller  scale using old equipment like some of that on display in thedyce lab at  cornell.
new bees and  queens can be raised in the north, but at present most nurseries for bees are  considerably farther south and rely on express delivery services.
in addition to its intoxicating qualities, alcohol can be used as a preservative and to sterilize medical equipment and wounds.
buy the 2010 edition.
as the energy costs of sugar refining climb, those prices will likely climb.
while some beekeepers might find warmer weather convenient, changing weather patterns, especially if extreme weather becomes more common, could create difficulties.
cane sugar's long history, however, suggests that it and its by-product molasses can still be valuable with reduced processing, as extracting sugar is relatively simple and can be fueled with the cane that created it[1].
wet corn mill (original source, used under creative commons license from jim hammer.)
sugar works well with slower and less energy-demanding forms of transport, but transitions to new distribution patterns may take time.
cornell  cooperative education offers sessions on fruit juices and preserving.
while it is not difficult to preserve maple syrup, its greater water content makes it more likely to spoil than honey or sugar.
in an energy descent situation, however, sugars are perhaps dangerously attractive as an easy source of alcohol for fuel.
stevia leaves can be used directly as a sweetener without further processing.
if energy costs climb, the cost of distributing sugar, especially cane  sugar coming from a distance, will climb.
honey is a commonly available sweetener that can be produced in large quantities in the finger lakes region.
diversion of sugarcane to ethanol production may also shrink the available  supply of sugar substantially, also increasing the price.
while it is likely possible to create most of these sweeteners in the laboratory facilities available at cornell, most of them are produced today in large volume at chemical plants.
sugar works well with slower and less  energy-demanding forms of transport, but transitions to new distribution  patterns may take time.
these hives fit into a single box organized horizontally rather than stacked vertically.
this  is a strictly industrial energy intensive process: corn wet milling is the most energy intensive industry within the food and  kindred products group, using 15% of the energy in the entire food industry.
xylitol, mannitol, and sorbitol,  the sweet alcohols, are roughly as sweet as sugar and are useful both to  sweeten food for diabetics and potentially as a tooth decay preventative.
black currants are difficult eating off the bush.
watching for symptoms and developing testing protocols could become much more important if the price of sweeteners climbs.
at any scale, however, maple faces some challenges.
while colony collapse disorder (ccd) made headlines, most beekeepers are battling a variety of problems, most notably varroa mites.
cane sugar's long history, however, suggests that it and its by-product  molasses can still be valuable with reduced processing, as extracting sugar is  relatively simple and can be fueled with the cane that created it[1].
for now, sorghum seems useful primarily as a cover crop, with some potential for use as a sweetener.
the flow of sap depends on the weather, particularly on the contrast between daytime and night time temperatures.
the primary questions about sugar in an energy descent situation revolve  around price, distribution, and quality.
however, the  quantity of sugar beets currently grown is small enough that the usda national  agricultural statistics service[2] doesn't even offer sugar beets as a query  option for new york.
aronia melanocarpa is called "chokeberry" for  a reason.
sugar cane, a tropical plant, doesn't grow in central new york.
the more familiar  perennial rhubarb also becomes far more enjoyable with sweetening.
they require more energy input to preserve than do sugar or honey, but are easier to create with ordinary pots or pans or with simple tools like steam juicers.
they scale up to greater volumes easily as well.
crushing the cane is generally done with a simple mill, and the  resulting juice yields about a gallon of syrup from ten gallons of juice.[11] figure 5.
taking that idea further, some beekeepers are using top bar hives.
processing sorghum for syrup requires stripping the leaves and seed head off the cane, then squeezing the juice out of it and evaporating and skimming that juice.
sugar produced from beets has many of the same issues as cane sugar, but  unlike sugar cane, sugar beets can be grown in new york state.
upstate new york has been producing maple syrup and maple sugar for centuries.
(the byproducts are typically used as animal feed.)
grains are another common source of sweetness.
whether it was cheap sugar (and rum) in the early 1800s, saccharin in the early 1900s, or high-fructose corn syrup in the late 20th century, sweeteners have had a bad—but tasty—reputation.
high-fructose corn syrup (hfcs) is made by an additional enzyme process to convert much of that glucose to fructose.[6]
modern sugar  production relies on energy-intensive industrial processing and distribution.
many grains are bred specifically to provide the enzymes needed for the malting process.
however, it may prove useful as a household-scale sweetener, especially for people who have difficulties with other sweeteners.
it is possible, though slow, to replace frames with bars with a simpler strip of wax on the bottom and have the bees build their comb on that, but the frames will be less regular and more difficult to use with an extractor.
bees also fly much less when temperatures are 90° f or higher, staying home to cool the hive.
honey honey is a commonly available sweetener that can be produced in large  quantities in the finger lakes region.
policy suggestions some projects supporting local sweetener production already exist.
climate change may shift the  range northward, giving hickories and oaks an advantage while limiting maples.
malt grains are another common source of sweetness.
rain and snow can keep bees in their hives and prevent  their collecting food, while drought can delay or hinder plants from flowering.
the food and drug adminstration has allowed the sale of stevia as a food supplement but not as an ingredient, though stevia-derived sweeteners are now legal for use.
today most malting relies on industrial  equipment and purpose-built malting floors, but the basic steps can be done  with simple equipment on a wide variety of scales.
in a local context, however, sweeteners are extremely important.
bears moving north present another challenge.
they scale up to  greater volumes easily as well.
united  states sugar producers are in louisiana and florida, though sugar refineries  have been prominent features of port cities along the coasts.
sorghum mill (original source, used under creative commons license from g-s-h.) fruit juices and concentrates, and even applesauce, are classic sweeteners.
local breeding has become more popular as a way to improve bees, so this may not remain an issue for very long.
disruptions may also be more difficult because of the  longer supply chain of cane sugar.
keeping hives alive  has become more difficult in recent years with the spread of pests, notably  varroa mites, but the infrastructure and learning investments required to  become a successful beekeeper are still fairly small.
while much beekeeping equipment can be built from readily available wood and metal, two pieces of the beekeeping system are more difficult.
many different sweeteners are available today, though they may become more or less important in localization or energy descent situations.
integrated pest management (ipm) mixes chemical and  other approaches, focusing on keeping hives going.
sweet sorghum, though traditionally grown further south, can produce a syrup similar to molasses, as well as silage or forage for animals.
beekeepers encourage hives to produce more honey than they need to survive the winter, then take the extra honey for human consumption.
some sweeteners, notably cane sugar and corn syrup, are unlikely ever to become local products, and most of the artificial sweeteners are unlikely to become economical local products.
while colony collapse disorder (ccd) made headlines, most beekeepers are  battling a variety of problems, most notably varroa mites.
many of the local fruits that contain vitamin c, for instance, are difficult eating unless sweetened.
while dent corn can be grown locally, the industrial scale and energy requirements of wet corn milling seem to put local corn syrup out of reach.
whether it was cheap sugar (and  rum) in the early 1800s, saccharin in the early 1900s, or high-fructose corn  syrup in the late 20th century, sweeteners have had a bad—but  tasty—reputation.
(original source, used under creative commons license from irene kightley) stevia's climate expectations limit its use for large-scale plantings in tompkins county.
so long as beekeepers maintain precise  distances between equipment inside of the hive, the bees will avoid gluing  everything together.
beekeepers encourage hives to produce  more honey than they need to survive the winter, then take the extra honey for  human consumption.
processing sorghum for syrup requires stripping the leaves and seed head  off the cane, then squeezing the juice out of it and evaporating and skimming  that juice.
content on this site is subject to our fair use notice.
(original source, used under creative  commons license from irene kightley) stevia's climate expectations limit its use for large-scale plantings in  tompkins county.
in addition to its  intoxicating qualities, alcohol can be used as a preservative and to sterilize  medical equipment and wounds.
(photo simon st.laurent.)
a winter that turns too suddenly into spring can disrupt maple production, as can seasonal storms that make it difficult to collect and evaporate syrup.
making maple syrup (storey, 1983)
commonly available apple and grape juices, both products of  upstate new york, are regularly used to provide bulk and sweetness to more  expensive juices like cranberries, blackberries, blueberries, or (more  recently) pomegranate.
in an energy descent situation, however, sugars are perhaps dangerously  attractive as an easy source of alcohol for fuel.
most beekeepers use langstroth hives, rectangular boxes filled with frames  in which the bees make their home.
taking  that idea further, some beekeepers are using top bar hives.
integrated pest management (ipm) mixes chemical and other approaches, focusing on keeping hives going.
malt is most commonly used as a fermentation base for beer and whiskey, but  it is also a key component in malted milks, malt vinegar, and malt candies.
if you count the extremely toxic "sugar of lead" (lead acetate), artificial sweeteners have been around for thousands of years, though the modern history usually begins with saccharin in 1879.
there is one great danger here, something that local public health  officials should watch for: the possible return of lead acetate.
even a simple pot can work for boiling down  sap, though large flat pans and especially more complex flue pans make it much  easier to evaporate sap down to syrup.
dent corn is converted into corn starch by a wet millling process and then treated with enzymes to produce corn (glucose) syrup.
sugar produced from beets has many of the same issues as cane sugar, but unlike sugar cane, sugar beets can be grown in new york state.
some require industrial facilities and major energy inputs, and a few are dangerous, but many familiar sweeteners will likely remain available into even an uncertain future.
native americans taught european settlers about collecting and concentrating sap, and europeans gradually technologized and standardized the process.
while less-refined sugar has become a high-end product recently, most  people still expect their sugar to be a pure white with a relatively neutral  taste and predictable cooking behavior.
local  breeding has become more popular as a way to improve bees, so this may not  remain an issue for very long.
competition between food and  energy uses of sugar will likely increase demand (and prices) for sweeteners.
beekeeping is a complex art, though it scales down to the household level  more easily than the production of many other sweeteners.
malting floor (original source, used under creative commons license from chris sharp)
until the mid-19th century, beekeepers used hollow logs or straw houses, called skeps, for their bees.
after corn, energy is the second largest operating cost for corn wet millers in the united states.
an indoor wood stove already used for heat can boil syrup at the household level, while a sugarhouse with vents is likely a better idea for a larger pan.
(beet syrup starts at a concentration of 6 parts water  to 1 part sugar, cane syrup starts at 10:1, and maple sap is at 40:1.)
while less-refined sugar has become a high-end product recently, most people still expect their sugar to be a pure white with a relatively neutral taste and predictable cooking behavior.
the food and drug adminstration has  allowed the sale of stevia as a food supplement but not as an ingredient,  though stevia-derived sweeteners are now legal for use.
even a simple pot can work for boiling down sap, though large flat pans and especially more complex flue pans make it much easier to evaporate sap down to syrup.
long-term changes in spring weather patterns could also complicate or reduce the maple season further.
malt is traditionally used for beer; fruit juices for wine; hard cider, and brandies, honey for mead; and sugar and molasses for rum.
this destroys the comb, requiring the bees to work harder to make new honey, but requires less dedicated equipment.
(beet syrup starts at a concentration of 6 parts water to 1 part sugar, cane syrup starts at 10:1, and maple sap is at 40:1.)
sorghum and stevia originated in far warmer climates than tompkins county has to offer, but both are worth exploring in different contexts.
until the mid-19th century, beekeepers used hollow logs or straw houses,  called skeps, for their bees.
while much beekeeping equipment can be built from readily available wood  and metal, two pieces of the beekeeping system are more difficult.
a typical corn wet milling plant in the united states spends  approximately $20 to $30 million per year on energy.[7, page 3] figure 2.
beekeeping is a complex art, though it scales down to the household level more easily than the production of many other sweeteners.
(maple syrup can be made into maple sugar, at a large energy cost in additional refining.)
published sep 12 2011 by tclocal , archivedoct 4 2011 producing sweeteners locally by simon st. laurent one of the most common complaints about the industrial age is its constant  and seemingly ever-growing use of sweeteners.
some require  industrial facilities and major energy inputs, and a few are dangerous, but  many familiar sweeteners will likely remain available into even an uncertain  future.
it may be possible to create a substantial sugar beet industry in new york state—or it may make sense to count on sugar's relatively easy tradability to keep it available.
sugar is also very important in preserving food, where it creates a hostile environment for bacteria as well as a delicious treat.
native americans taught european settlers about collecting and  concentrating sap, and europeans gradually technologized and standardized the  process.
(maple syrup can be made into maple  sugar, at a large energy cost in additional refining.)
larvae tunnel through the wood, weakening the tree.[10] these beetles may reduce the number of healthy maples and make it more difficult for new maples to survive.
there was a corn wet mill in montezuma, new york, just up cayuga lake, but it closed in 1986.[7, page 73] like sugar, corn syrup can be easily transported and stored.
chemical solutions can keep mites at bay, but mites seem likely to be a permanent feature of beekeeping at this point.
evaporating syrup in marathon, ny (photo simon st.laurent) maples also face environmental challenges.
the short season and its unreliability make maple syrup a risky product.
the plant stevia rebaudiana, originally from south america, has leaves that are approximately 30 times sweeter than sugar, and its core sweetening compounds are approximately 250 times sweeter.
lead acetate deserves special attention as a danger, as it is not difficult to synthesize from lead and has commonly been used as an adulterant in foods and drinks.
crushing the cane is generally done with a simple mill, and the resulting juice yields about a gallon of syrup from ten gallons of juice.[11] figure 5.
most beekeepers use langstroth hives, rectangular boxes filled with frames in which the bees make their home.
all of the natural sweeteners except stevia can be converted into alcohol through fermentation, possibly followed by more energy-intensive distillation.
while some beekeepers might find warmer weather convenient, changing  weather patterns, especially if extreme weather becomes more common, could  create difficulties.
malt is traditionally used for beer; fruit juices for wine; hard cider, and  brandies, honey for mead; and sugar and molasses for rum.
stevia is more promising because of its ability to grow as a  houseplant, and could be an excellent target for cooperative extension projects  and local nursery development.
new bees and queens can be raised in the north, but at present most nurseries for bees are considerably farther south and rely on express delivery services.
a must-read collection by some of the world’s most provocative thinkers on the key issues shaping our new century.
if the extra energy cost of refining to white sugar climbs, more people may need to get used to less-refined sugar.
though sugar in the united states is expensive relative to sugar in the rest of the world (roughly double the canadian price because of american import quotas[5]) it remains a remarkably cheap commodity by historical measures.
commonly available apple and grape juices, both products of upstate new york, are regularly used to provide bulk and sweetness to more expensive juices like cranberries, blackberries, blueberries, or (more recently) pomegranate.
[1] http://www.sucrose.com/lcane.html
sugar beets are also typically  used as a crop in rotation, so the yield per acre is substantially lower than  that of cane.[3] sugar beets can be processed at home on a small scale by  chopping, boiling, and evaporating, however.[4] figure 1.
today, sugar beets receive more industrial processing than does sugar cane, despite containing 17% sugar while cane contains 10%.
chemical solutions  can keep mites at bay, but mites seem likely to be a permanent feature of  beekeeping at this point.
sugar beet field, sweden (original source, used under  creative commons license from dag endresen.)
[2] http://www.nass.usda.gov/quickstats/create_federal_all.jsp [3] http://www.sucrose.com/lbeet.html [4] http://www.grandpappy.info/rsugar.htm and http://www.ehow.com/how_2177131_sugar-beets.html [5] http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu/sc032 [6] http://www.madehow.com/volume-4/corn-syrup.html [7] http://www.energystar.gov/ia/business/industry/lbnl-52307.pdf , page 3 and 73
—roger sessions view eb comments community guidelines in local dollars, local sense, pci fellow and local economy pioneer michael shuman shows investors, including the nearly 99% who are unaccredited, how to put their money into building local businesses and resilient regional economiesbuy now and receive a discount.
wet corn mill (original source, used under creative  commons license from jim hammer.)
these hives fit  into a single box organized horizontally rather than stacked vertically.
[10] http://www.dec.ny.gov/docs/lands_forests_pdf/alb.pdf [11] http://www.herculesengines.com/sorghum/default.html and http://www.motherearthnews.com/relish/making-sorghum-zb0z11zalt.aspx original article available here “but communication is two-sided - vital and profound communication makes demands also on those who are to receive it... demands in the sense of concentration, of genuine effort to receive what is being communicated. ”
while it  is not difficult to preserve maple syrup, its greater water content makes it  more likely to spoil than honey or sugar.
energy bulletin is a program of post carbon institute, a nonprofit organization dedicated to helping the world transition away from fossil fuels and build sustainable, resilient communities.
unlike  cane, beets cannot easily be processed using their byproducts for fuel.
if the extra energy cost of refining to  white sugar climbs, more people may need to get used to less-refined sugar.
the foundation is generally manufactured, though it can be created on a smaller scale using old equipment like some of that on display in thedyce lab at cornell.
even in less  extreme cases, sweeteners can certainly add enjoyment to foods otherwise too  bitter or too bland to be attractive.
today, sugar beets receive more industrial processing than  does sugar cane, despite containing 17% sugar while cane contains 10%.
bees also fly much less when temperatures are 90° f or higher, staying home  to cool the hive.
at present, this threat is discussed mostly in the context of imported food, but it could just as easily surface in local food.
bees on framed comb, honey top right, brood lower left.
corn sweeteners corn-based sweeteners thrive today because of a combination of the import  quotas noted above and subsidies for corn production.
many of  the local fruits that contain vitamin c, for instance, are difficult eating  unless sweetened.
while many modern maple syrup producers use plastic tubing to collect the  sap, simple metal taps and buckets can provide a sustainable (if  labor-intensive) collection system.
beekeepers are facing an ever-wider variety of diseases and parasites.
while it is likely  possible to create most of these sweeteners in the laboratory facilities  available at cornell, most of them are produced today in large volume at  chemical plants.
like fruits, fruit juices can be canned or frozen.
the  bees build their own comb, and beekeepers who want to collect the honey press  or cut the comb instead of spinning it.
some farmers are experimenting with it in tompkins county as a cover crop and animal feed today, and it may be an appealing option if climate change extends the growing season.
sugar is also very important in  preserving food, where it creates a hostile environment for bacteria as well as  a delicious treat.
united states sugar producers are in louisiana and florida, though sugar refineries have been prominent features of port cities along the coasts.
langstroth equipment does require a fairly substantial investment, and most  beekeepers buy sturdy frames filled with wax or plastic foundation printed in a  hex pattern.
climate change may shift the range northward, giving hickories and oaks an advantage while limiting maples.
it is possible, though slow, to replace frames with bars with a simpler  strip of wax on the bottom and have the bees build their comb on that, but the  frames will be less regular and more difficult to use with an extractor.
larvae tunnel through the wood, weakening the tree.[10] these beetles may  reduce the number of healthy maples and make it more difficult for new maples  to survive.
maple syrup and maple sugar upstate new york has been producing maple syrup and maple sugar for  centuries.
sorghum mill (original source, used under creative  commons license from g-s-h.) fruit juices fruit juices and concentrates, and even applesauce, are classic sweeteners.
long-term changes in spring weather patterns could also complicate or reduce  the maple season further.
malting grain is a fairly  complex process involving drying, storing, adding water, partially germinating,  and then processing and often mashing.
stevia is a relative newcomer, at least in the united states.
while many modern maple syrup producers use plastic tubing to collect the sap, simple metal taps and buckets can provide a sustainable (if labor-intensive) collection system.
it can grow as a window plant, getting the sun that it needs while avoiding the cold.
there is one great danger here, something that local public health officials should watch for: the possible return of lead acetate.
as  the energy costs of sugar refining climb, those prices will likely climb.
disruptions may also be more difficult because of the longer supply chain of cane sugar.
it was a key part of the development plan for early cooperstown,  though visions of maple fortunes faded quickly[8], and the energy and  infrastructure challenges of making maple syrup have kept it from competing  with cane or beet sugar.
cornell's master beekeeper program and its work with maple products in the arnot teaching and research forest focus on honey and maple syrup.
at present,  this threat is discussed mostly in the context of imported food, but it could  just as easily surface in local food.
some sweeteners, notably cane sugar and corn syrup, are unlikely ever to  become local products, and most of the artificial sweeteners are unlikely to  become economical local products.
while these worked, they didn't allow beekeepers  to inspect the hive for disease, and the hive usually had to be destroyed to  retrieve the honey.
sugar beets are also typically used as a crop in rotation, so the yield per acre is substantially lower than that of cane.[3] sugar beets can be processed at home on a small scale by chopping, boiling, and evaporating, however.[4] figure 1.
it was a key part of the development plan for early cooperstown, though visions of maple fortunes faded quickly[8], and the energy and infrastructure challenges of making maple syrup have kept it from competing with cane or beet sugar.
today most malting relies on industrial equipment and purpose-built malting floors, but the basic steps can be done with simple equipment on a wide variety of scales.
malt is most commonly used as a fermentation base for beer and whiskey, but it is also a key component in malted milks, malt vinegar, and malt candies.
a sugarhouse will need a dedicated supply of wood (or other fuel), but that is frequently available in the same areas as maple stands.[9] while sugar maples (acer saccharum) are the traditional tree for maple syrup production, red, black, and some silver maples can also be tapped, as can box elders and birches.
william cooper's town: power and persuasion on the frontier of the early american republic (vintage, 1996), 130-4 [9] perrin, noel.
however, it may prove useful as a household-scale sweetener,  especially for people who have difficulties with other sweeteners.
stevia stevia is a relative newcomer, at least in the united states.
after corn, energy is the second largest operating cost for corn wet millers in  the united states.
if energy costs climb, the cost of distributing sugar, especially cane sugar coming from a distance, will climb.
the  short season and its unreliability make maple syrup a risky product.
modern sugar production relies on energy-intensive industrial processing and distribution.
the primary questions about sugar in an energy descent situation revolve around price, distribution, and quality.
there was a corn wet mill in montezuma, new york, just up cayuga lake, but it  closed in 1986.[7, page 73] like sugar, corn syrup can be easily transported  and stored.
this is a strictly industrial energy intensive process: corn wet milling is the most energy intensive industry within the food and kindred products group, using 15% of the energy in the entire food industry.
a winter  that turns too suddenly into spring can disrupt maple production, as can  seasonal storms that make it difficult to collect and evaporate syrup.