natural medicines comprehensive database.
a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only.
understand their pros and cons to make an informed choice.
for instance, some manufacturers call their sweeteners "natural" even though they're processed or refined, as is the case with stevia preparations.
artificial sweeteners may be a good alternative to sugar if you have diabetes.
artificial sweeteners may be a good alternative  to sugar if you have diabetes.
in addition, other sugar substitutes are being touted as healthier sweeteners than regular sugar, even if they don't have fewer calories, such as honey and agave nectar.
artificial sweeteners are also known as intense sweeteners because they are  many times sweeter than regular sugar.
what you get view the health heart book - free weekly e-newsletter - mayo clinic expertise - recipes, tools and other helpful information - we do not share your e-mail address artificial sweeteners: understanding these and other sugar substitutes whether your goal is cutting calories or eating healthier, options for sugar substitutes abound.
possible health concerns with artificial sweeteners artificial sweeteners have been the subject of intense scrutiny for decades.
if you're trying to lose weight or prevent weight gain,  products sweetened with artificial sweeteners rather than with higher calorie  table sugar may be an attractive option.
uses for artificial sweeteners artificial sweeteners  are attractive alternatives to sugar because they add virtually no calories to  your diet.
- junk food blues: are depression and diet related?
nonnutritive sweetener consumption in humans:
- yerba mate: is it safe to drink?
journal of the american dietetic association.
on the other hand, some research has suggested that consuming artificial sweeteners may be associated with increased weight, but the cause is not yet known.
artificial sweeteners artificial sweeteners are synthetic sugar substitutes but may be derived  from naturally occurring substances, including herbs or sugar itself.
check the  labels on artificial sweeteners for appropriate home use.
american dietetic association complete food and nutrition guide.
and some artificial sweeteners are derived from naturally occurring substances — sucralose comes from sugar, for example.
some artificial sweeteners may leave an aftertaste.
- multigrain vs. whole grain: which is healthier?
accessed july 22, 2010.
- artificial sweeteners and cancer.
and some artificial sweeteners are derived from  naturally occurring substances — sucralose comes from sugar, for example.
a scientific statement from the american heart association.
artificial sweeteners currently approved by the food and drug  administration (fda) are: acesulfame potassium (sunett, sweet one)
and what's their role in your diet?
the fda has also established an acceptable daily intake (adi) for each  artificial sweetener.
legal conditions and terms of use applicable to all users of this site.
san diego, calif.: academic press; 2002.
and some  sweeteners, such as cyclamate, are not approved in the united states but are  approved for use in other countries.
artificial sweeteners are regulated by the fda as food additives.
certain recipes may need modification, though, because artificial sweeteners provide no bulk or volume, as does sugar.
- nelson jk (expert opinion).
share this on ... - stumbleupon - digg - del.icio.us - facebook - myspace link to this page to link to this page, copy this html and paste it onto your web page.
just what are all these artificial sweeteners and sugar substitutes?
- is stevia an fda-approved sweetener?
in some cases, the fda declares a substance "generally recognized as  safe" (gras).
guide to portion control for weight loss - can whole-grain foods lower blood pressure?
hoboken, n.j.: john wiley & sons; 2006.
and some sweeteners, such as cyclamate, are not approved in the united states but are approved for use in other countries.
artificial sweeteners are widely used in processed products, including tabletop sweeteners, baked goods, soft drinks, powdered drink mixes, candy, puddings, canned foods, jams and jellies, dairy products, and scores of other foods and beverages.
understanding nutrition.
accessed aug. 2, 2010.
this is the maximum amount considered safe to consume each day over the course of your lifetime.
- dietary fiber: essential for a healthy diet - nutrition facts: an interactive guide to food labels - healthy chocolate: dream or reality?
- johnson rk, et al.
the fda has also established an acceptable daily intake (adi) for each artificial sweetener.
some can even be used  in baking or cooking.
some sugar substitutes, such as aspartame, are promoted because they add virtually no calories to your diet.
these gras substances, including highly refined stevia preparations, are deemed by qualified professionals based on scientific data as being safe for their intended use, or they have such a lengthy history of common use in food that they're considered generally safe and don't require fda approval before sale.
but because of concerns about how sugar substitutes are labeled and categorized, always check with your doctor or dietitian about using any sugar substitutes if you have diabetes.
unlike sugar, artificial sweeteners  don't contribute to tooth decay.
you may need to  experiment with artificial sweeteners to find one or a combination that you  enjoy most.
critics of artificial sweeteners say that they cause a variety of health  problems, including cancer.
possible health benefits of artificial sweeteners weight control.
one of the most appealing aspects of  artificial sweeteners is that they are non-nutritive — they have  virtually no calories.
the topic of sugar substitutes can be complex and confusing.
in contrast, each gram of regular table sugar contains 4  calories.
newer sugar substitutes, including stevia and agave nectar, claim to be lower calorie, tastier and healthier options.
- the encyclopedia of foods: a guide to healthy nutrition.
any use of this site constitutes your agreement to these terms and conditions of use.
- try mayo clinic health letter free!
about our newsletters - housecall - alzheimer's caregiving - living with cancer close window about our e-newsletters - free e-newsletters - mayo clinic expertise - we do not share your e-mail address housecall, our weekly general-interest e-newsletter, keeps you up to date on a wide variety of health topics with timely, reliable, practical information, recipes, blogs, questions and answers with mayo clinic experts and more.
the popularity of artificial sweeteners and other sugar substitutes is on the  rise as manufacturers and consumers seek lower calorie alternatives to regular  white sugar without sacrificing sweetness.
in addition, you need only a fraction compared with the amount of regular sugar you would normally use for sweetness.
- mayo clinic is a not-for-profit organization and proceeds from web advertising help support our mission.
uses for artificial sweeteners artificial sweeteners are attractive alternatives to sugar because they add virtually no calories to your diet.
- position of the american dietetic association: use of nutritive and nonnutritive sweeteners.
for perspective, consider that  one 12-ounce can of a sweetened cola contains 8 teaspoons of added sugar, or  about 130 calories.
- phenylalanine in diet soda: is it harmful?
sometimes sugar substitutes are categorized by whether or not they contain calories.
newer sugar  substitutes, including stevia and agave nectar, claim to be lower calorie,  tastier and healthier options.
- high-fructose corn syrup: what are the health concerns?
artificial sweeteners are just one  type of sugar substitute.
that's largely because of studies dating to the 1970s that linked saccharin to bladder cancer in laboratory rats.
- taurine in energy drinks: what is it?
the popularity of artificial sweeteners and other sugar substitutes is on the rise as manufacturers and consumers seek lower calorie alternatives to regular white sugar without sacrificing sweetness.
today, artificial sweeteners and other sugar substitutes are found in a  variety of food and beverages marketed as "sugar-free" or  "diet," including soft drinks, chewing gum, jellies, baked goods,  candy, fruit juice and ice cream.
explore these healthy diet options - added sugar: don't get sabotaged by sweeteners - sodium: how to tame your salt habit now - carbohydrates: how carbs fit into a healthy diet - new dietary guidelines: how to make smart choices - dietary fats: know which types to choose - alcohol use: if you drink, keep it moderate - caffeine: how much is too much?
accessed july 20, 2010.
close window - reprints - print - share on: - - - email e-mail this page *
they  must be reviewed and approved by the fda before being made available for sale.
- foods for healthy skin:
american journal of clinical nutrition.
as a result of  the newer studies, the warning label for saccharin was dropped.
- calorie calculator - slide show: 10 great health foods for eating well - energy drinks: do they really boost energy?
"mayo," "mayo clinic," "mayoclinic.com," "embodyhealth," "enhance your life," and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research.
effects on appetite and food intake and their putative mechanisms.
but according to the national cancer institute and other health agencies, there's no sound scientific evidence that any of the artificial sweeteners approved for use in the united states cause cancer or other serious health problems.
http://www.naturaldatabase.com.
one of the most appealing aspects of artificial sweeteners is that they are non-nutritive — they have virtually no calories.
- the mayo clinic diet — eat well.
your e-mail clicking "send" signifies that you have read and agree to our privacy policy.
terms and conditions of use policy (updated aug. 2, 2011)
understanding artificial sweeteners and other sugar substitutes sugar substitutes are loosely considered any sweetener that you use  instead of regular table sugar (sucrose).
belmont, calif.: wadsworth cengage learning; 2011.
- acai berry products: do they have health benefits?
national cancer institute.
- slide show: guide to a high-fiber diet - coffee and health: what does the research say?
a teaspoon of sugar is about 4 grams.
- advertising and sponsorship policy - advertising and sponsorship opportunities - about this site - site help - contact us - e-newsletter - blogs - podcasts - slide shows - videos - site map - reprints and permissions find mayo clinic on privacy policy (updated aug. 2, 2011)
artificial sweeteners artificial sweeteners are synthetic sugar substitutes but may be derived from naturally occurring substances, including herbs or sugar itself.
artificial sweeteners: understanding these and other sugar substitutes guidelines for sites linking to mayoclinic.com advertisement mayo clinic store check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from mayo clinic.
dietary sugars intake and cardiovascular health:
for perspective, consider that one 12-ounce can of a sweetened cola contains 8 teaspoons of added sugar, or about 130 calories.
they must be reviewed and approved by the fda before being made available for sale.
these gras substances, including highly refined stevia  preparations, are deemed by qualified professionals based on scientific data as  being safe for their intended use, or they have such a lengthy history of  common use in food that they're considered generally safe and don't require fda  approval before sale.
unlike sugar, artificial sweeteners don't contribute to tooth decay.
© 1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research.
our biweekly topic-specific e-newsletters also include blogs, questions and answers with mayo clinic experts, and other useful information that will help you manage your health.
because of  those studies, saccharin once carried a warning label that it may be hazardous  to your health.
http://www.fda.gov/aboutfda/basics/ucm214864.htm.
- bauer ba (expert opinion).
http://www.fda.gov/food/foodingredientspackaging/generallyrecognizedassafegras/ucm2006850.htm.
unlike sugar, artificial sweeteners generally  don't raise blood sugar levels because they are not carbohydrates.
artificial sweeteners currently approved by the food and drug administration (fda) are: - acesulfame potassium (sunett, sweet one) - aspartame (equal, nutrasweet) - neotame - saccharin (sugartwin, sweet'n low) - sucralose (splenda) fda approval is being sought for other artificial sweeteners.
- olive oil: what are the health benefits?
artificial sweeteners are also known as intense sweeteners because they are many times sweeter than regular sugar.
mayo clinic, rochester, minn.
on the other hand, some research has  suggested that consuming artificial sweeteners may be associated with increased  weight, but the cause is not yet known.
see how to add pounds healthfully - grape juice: same heart benefits as wine?
adis are intended to be about 100  times less than the smallest amount that might cause health concerns.
eating nuts for heart health - cholesterol: top 5 foods to lower your numbers - healthy heart for life: avoiding heart disease - omega-6 fatty acids: can they cause heart disease?
but because  of concerns about how sugar substitutes are labeled and categorized, always  check with your doctor or dietitian about using any sugar substitutes if you  have diabetes.
one problem is that the terminology regarding sugar substitutes is often open to interpretation.
housecall archives close window mayo clinic housecall stay up to date on the latest health information.
- juicing: what are the health benefits?
http://www.fda.gov/aboutfda/transparency/basics/ucm214865.htm.
one problem  is that the terminology regarding sugar substitutes is often open to  interpretation.
in contrast, each gram of regular table sugar contains 4 calories.
by mayo clinic staff
top 5 tips for shopping and cooking - sample menus for the dash eating plan - see all in healthy diets - healthy cooking (13) - meatless meals: the benefits of eating less meat - healthy cooking for 1 or 2 - whole grains: hearty options for a healthy diet - see all in healthy cooking - healthy menus and shopping strategies (15) - free range and other meat and poultry terms - nutrition labels:
accessed aug. 3, 2010.
in addition, you need only a fraction compared with the amount of  regular sugar you would normally use for sweetness.
we do not share your e-mail address sign up view the health heart book artificial sweeteners: understanding these and other sugar substitutes whether your goal is cutting calories or eating healthier, options for  sugar substitutes abound.
for instance, some manufacturers call their sweeteners  "natural" even though they're processed or refined, as is the case  with stevia preparations.
- slide show: healthy meals start with smart meal planning - water softeners: how much sodium do they add?
- what refined stevia preparations have been approved by fda to be used as a sweetener?
- what are functional foods?
if you're trying to lose weight or prevent weight gain, products sweetened with artificial sweeteners rather than with higher calorie table sugar may be an attractive option.
by mayo clinic staff if you're trying to reduce the sugar and calories in your diet, you may be  turning to artificial sweeteners or other sugar substitutes.
because of those studies, saccharin once carried a warning label that it may be hazardous to your health.
in addition, other sugar substitutes are  being touted as healthier sweeteners than regular sugar, even if they don't  have fewer calories, such as honey and agave nectar.
recipes, tools and other helpful information
check the  food label to see if a product contains artificial sweeteners.
© 1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research (mfmer).
- caffeine: is it dehydrating or not?
if you're trying to reduce the sugar and calories in your diet, you may be turning to artificial sweeteners or other sugar substitutes.
- patient care - request an appointment - log in to patient account - see treatment & diagnosis services - plan your visit - find a doctor - health information - diseases & conditions a-z - symptom checker - drugs & supplements a-z - tests & procedures a-z - healthy living - expert blogs - mayo clinic store - for medical professionals - online services for referring physicians - grand rounds - publications - continuing medical education - mayo medical laboratories - research - explore research areas - find clinical trials - research faculty - postdoctoral fellowships - discoverys edge magazine - search publications - education - mayo graduate school - mayo medical school - mayo school of continuous professional development - mayo school of graduate medical education - mayo school of health sciences - alumni association - request an appointment - find a doctor - find a job - log in to patient account - give to mayo clinic - facebook - twitter - youtube - diseases and conditions - symptoms - drugs and supplements - tests and procedures - healthy lifestyle - first aid - home - healthy lifestyle - nutrition and healthy eating - in-depth - artificial sweeteners: understanding these and other sugar substitutes nutrition and healthy eating - basics - in-depth - multimedia - expert answers - expert blog - resources - what's new - nutrition basics (19) - water: how much should you drink every day?
adis are intended to be about 100 times less than the smallest amount that might cause health concerns.
we comply with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information:verify here.
- monosodium glutamate (msg): is it harmful?
mayo clinic, rochester, minn. sept. 1, 2010.
artificial sweeteners are just one type of sugar substitute.
unlike sugar, artificial sweeteners generally don't raise blood sugar levels because they are not carbohydrates.
next page (1 of 2) references - hand scheduled see also section focus - water: how much should you drink every day?
- healthy diet: end the guesswork with these nutrition guidelines - mufas: why should my diet include these fats?
- alkaline water: better than plain water?
artificial sweeteners are also popular for home use.
http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/factsheet/risk/artificial-sweeteners.
understanding artificial sweeteners and other sugar substitutes sugar substitutes are loosely considered any sweetener that you use instead of regular table sugar (sucrose).
certain recipes may need modification, though, because  artificial sweeteners provide no bulk or volume, as does sugar.
and numerous research studies confirm that artificial sweeteners are  generally safe in limited quantities, even for pregnant women.
text size: smaller largerlarger
understand their pros and cons to make an informed  choice.
explore these healthy diet options - added sugar: don't get sabotaged by sweeteners - see all in nutrition basics - healthy diets (9) - dash diet: top 5 tips for dining out - dash diet:
critics of artificial sweeteners say that they cause a variety of health problems, including cancer.
regardless of what they're called or how they're classified, sugar  substitutes aren't magic bullets for weight loss.
food and drug administration.
and numerous research studies confirm that artificial sweeteners are generally safe in limited quantities, even for pregnant women.
aspartame (equal, nutrasweet) saccharin (sugartwin, sweet'n low) sucralose (splenda) fda approval is being sought for other artificial sweeteners.
that's largely because of studies dating to the  1970s that linked saccharin to bladder cancer in laboratory rats.
in some cases, the fda declares a substance "generally recognized as safe" (gras).
- high-fiber foods - diet soda: is it bad for you?
mayo clinic, rochester, minn. sept. 7, 2010.
join mayo clinic's - nutritional supplements (3) - calcium and calcium supplements: achieving the right balance - herbal supplements: what to know before you buy - supplements: nutrition in a pill?
- fat grams: how to track your dietary fat - stevia: can it help with weight control?
- generally recognized as safe.
check the food label to see if a product contains artificial sweeteners.
- mayo clinic book of alternative medicine - mayo clinic five steps to controlling high blood pressure new — mayo clinic healthy heart for life!
today, artificial sweeteners and other sugar substitutes are found in a variety of food and beverages marketed as "sugar-free" or "diet," including soft drinks, chewing gum, jellies, baked goods, candy, fruit juice and ice cream.
as a result of the newer studies, the warning label for saccharin was dropped.
some sugar substitutes, such as aspartame, are  promoted because they add virtually no calories to your diet.
you may need to experiment with artificial sweeteners to find one or a combination that you enjoy most.
regardless of what they're called or how they're classified, sugar substitutes aren't magic bullets for weight loss.
possible health benefits of artificial sweeteners - weight control.
required fields * recipient's e-mail address *
sometimes sugar substitutes are categorized by whether or not they contain  calories.
mayo clinic does not endorse any of the products and services advertised.
and  what's their role in your diet?
free e-newsletters subscribe to receive the latest updates on health topics.
- low-sodium diet: why is processed food so salty?
this is the maximum amount considered safe to consume  each day over the course of your lifetime.
but according to the national cancer institute and other health agencies,  there's no sound scientific evidence that any of the artificial sweeteners  approved for use in the united states cause cancer or other serious health  problems.
top picks - tips for healthy eating - mayo clinic healthy weight pyramid tool - step up to myplate, the new food icon related links my00073 oct. 9, 2010 - duyff rl.
- trans fat is double trouble for your heart health - nuts and your heart:
- hensrud dd (expert opinion).
deciphering health claims - holiday recipes: healthy-eating ideas for your holiday parties - see all in healthy menus and shopping strategies connect with others who've been there.
some can even be used in baking or cooking.
artificial sweeteners are  widely used in processed products, including tabletop sweeteners, baked goods,  soft drinks, powdered drink mixes, candy, puddings, canned foods, jams and  jellies, dairy products, and scores of other foods and beverages.
- high-protein diets: are they safe?
check the labels on artificial sweeteners for appropriate home use.