i don’t know how many  different times, in how many different ways i can say this, but it goes as  follows: i don’t care how many miles you run each day, how many pounds of  weight you lift or how chiseled your muscles are.
the internal department of  health and human services was investigating hayes for accepting gratuities from  fda-regulated companies.
you are cheating your insides  –screw what you look like on the outside – if you don’t care for them as much as you care for your abs, your  booty, your legs or whatever else you adore.
that same year,  hayes left the fda amid charges of impropriety.
eating these sweeteners leaves you unable to recognize natural sweetness from beets, collard greens, yam, corn and basil.
neither of them are advertised as “low sugar” or “sugar free.”
and you’re right – “derogatory” is a bad term, because i certainly wasn’t being such.
however, many natural sweeteners have just as many calories as regular sugar, it’s the glycemic index you need to look at.
these sweeteners are not food.
also, for a science project in 8th grade, i submerged some teeth in different liquids for different periods of time.
“in 1980, a review by the public board of inquiry set up by the fda  determined that aspartame should not be approved.
[source] think about it – a chemical was created to cause the brain to react to it in the same way as sugar.
after he demolished it, he asked me how i lost as much weight as i did if i could bake like that.
existence, splenda (made ofsucralose), has an equally young past.
dr. martha freeman, a scientist from the fda division of metabolic and endocrine drug products, declared, “the information submitted for review is inadequate to permit a scientific evaluation of clinical safety.”freeman
later, they went to work for the law firm that represented searle.
when we introduce outside substances to our diet, our bodies deserve the twenty minutes it might take to hit up your favorite wellness-promoting website and do a search.
task force team leader phillip brodsky said he “had never seen anything as bad as searle’s testing” and called the test’s results “manipulated.”
you can’t have your cake and eat it too.
“in 1977, the fda asked the u.s. attorney’s office to  start grand jury proceedings against searle for “knowingly  misrepresenting findings and concealing material facts and making false  statements in aspartame safety tests.”
i looked into the whole aspartame thing recently and was horrified to read the story around how it got fda approval.
i knew i needed to give these last two things up but didn’t know how.
website notify me of followup comments via e-mail subscribe today:
kfc tests sandwich that uses… chicken..
i was finally able to lose those “last 10 pounds” and i haven’t looked back!reply you better preach!reply i’m curious to hear your thoughts on stevia… i’ve started using more natural sugars as of late and substituted stevia for my equal/splenda addiction.
it does nothing for teeth.
as for the floruide in water i am about topurchase me a big berky water system.
in addition to aspartame, equal contains the amino acid  phenylalanine.
next, if it has no vitamins or minerals in it, it’s not worth my time  ingesting it.
the best piece of advice i’ve read to date “if you didn’t make it, why eat it”.
this caused the statute of limitations on the charges to run  out, and the investigation was dropped.
it’s seriously not that hard.
nutrasweet and equal are both evil.
despite recognizing ninety-two different symptoms that result from ingesting aspartame, the fda approved it for use,without restriction in 1996.
anonymity and credibility don’t mix.
when ingested, one of  aspartame’s ingredients, methyl alcohol, converts into formaldehyde, a  deadly neurotoxin.
reply please keep your wisdom coming i used to love diet coke,but its just like regular soda not good for youreply they say what comes from the heart, goes to the heart.
you are introducing chemicals  into your system… period.
a black girl’s guide to weight lossreply stevia is the best natural sweetner….or agave nectar.
first, i’d say use your real name next time – there’s nothing to hide from around here, even if “your friend” is you.
a few rules for posting, friends: name(required) mail (will not be published)(required)
wow is all i can say.
secondly, i’m a huge advocate of knowing what you’re eating – both the positive and negative information – before you eat it.
my point in sharing this information is so that we can,  again, make educated decisions about the food choices we make.
recommended that until the safety of aspartame  was proven, marketing the product should not be permitted.
the problem isn’t the eating, it’s your coping mechanism, and it’s up to you to be honest with yourself about it.”
well gee, at least it doesn’t have any calories.
check out the movie “the beautiful truth” on you tube!
it is an artificial sweetener that contains saccharin,  a coal-tar compound.”
(this also furthers my understanding of how little doctors know about nutrition, but that’s a rant i will never be posting on this site, lol.)reply this is so freaking beautiful that i have to save it for another post.
i got interested after a few of my clients mentioned that they had been suffering from ms-type symptoms which disappeared when they gave up diet drinks.
this was very informative.
oh, and i love that you say ‘pop’!
i love every bit of this.
i changed to stevia, and earlier i read your post on five things you should know about sweetners and again yet another mouth drop moment.
that same year, hayes left the fda amid charges of impropriety.
stick to the pure cane sugar, or other natural derivatives!i had aspartame poisoning, yet i didn’t know what i was talking about!!!
what is your suggestion in sweeting green tea.
i have cut back on drinking them .
all those little diet dishes that are “sweet” thanks to this stuff?
i saw this on a coke documentary.
i baked some adult devil’s food mini-bundt cakes for a friend and  saved one for my doctor this week who swears by that nasty diet chocolate jello  mousse.
google “the case against masanto”.
and it seems that these symptoms were even known to the fda.
it took me years to realize that although the diet pop didn’t contain any calories it was not helping my weight loss goals.
it’s been proven to lower the iq in children.
what do you have to say about this?reply
it amazes me how many people try to give me that nasty stuff because i’m diabetic.
in 1981, new fda commissioner arthur hull hayes  was appointed.
they are addictive, mind altering & an absolute perversion of food.
reply i also agree water is the best form of hydration.
the other 2 percent contains small amounts of heavy metals, methanol, and arsenic.
i never want to mutilate my tastebuds in such a way that i cannot taste these sweet super foods in their natural, unseasoned state.
thanks erika for another great entry.
the darwinian theory of beauty mediterranean flatbread sandwiches two bean soup the interesting thing about reading the responses to the case against soft drinks, was the number of people who admitted “well, i don’t drink that mess…
i bagged all thaqt crap up and took it right back to meijers, got my money back and bought all healthy stuff!
many people –many people - claim  they experience withdrawals when they take a break from products containing  aspartame.
pop permanently erodes the enamel right off your teeth.
clearly, he wasn’t bothered by reports from neuroscientist dr. john  olney and researcher ann reynolds (hired by searle himself) that aspartame was  dangerous.
after reading this post, i think i love you!!!!
but clean eaters know better.
getting the most bang for our nutritional buck, here.
i have a lot of weight to lose and have started the weight watchers program.
oatmeal, sweets & workouts!
the only other instance i can think of where a person is willfully  introducing a mind-altering chemical into their system… definitely  causes withdrawal symptoms when people break from it.
for starters, this should lay to rest that philosophy of “if it were  so bad for you, then the fda wouldn’t have approved it.”
shortly after,  the u.s. attorney leading the investigation against searle was offered a job by  the law firm that was representing searle.
somehow, in 1974, searle got approval to  use aspartame in dry foods.
i will have coffee lol i have got to have something lol.reply
in unscientific terms: blech!reply i just started a sugar detox program yesterday but on week 3 because i already don’t eat high frutose corn syrup (week 1) and i already eat whole wheat instead of white, but the thing i was worried about was the splenda and my fat free flavored creamer.
i have a family history of cancer… what do i look like putting known cancer-causing agents (also known as carcinogens) in my body?
but im just so passionate about this and my health!reply through this site i was introduced to clean eating and since i wanted to know what i was getting into i did my research.
task force team leader phillip brodsky said he “had  never seen anything as bad as searle’s testing” and called the  test’s results “manipulated.”
i just eat a lot less of it and make it worth the indulgence.
in 1975, the fda put together a task force to review searle’s testing methods.
it is an artificial sweetener that contains saccharin, a coal-tar compound.”
it will open your eyes asap about this food industry and how they mass produce food like its a ford plant!
thank you for urging us to make informed decisions about the things we put in our bodiesreply sis! *big hug*reply i wrote about this very same thing about a year ago, on this site, and i was told by another subscriber to this site to “watch myself” because i could be sued my the makers of aspartame, because there was a possibility that i did not know what i was talking about!
so i started drinking water to see if my diet was the reason for my ailments and eventually narrowed it down to the diet soda.
+++ view more recipes → view more exercises → the best pizza sauce ever weekend wtf: 17yo
he went to work as a consultant for searle’s  public relations firm.
aspartame hinders the ability to think clearly.
i will say this, though: i’m a firm believer in the philosophy that  says “those who know better, constantly strive to do better.”
secondly, i’d say that the argument that “the body naturally produces this anyway!” is the same argument behind why food processors are using countless chemicals to “get us hooked” on their foods.
bgg2wl:  what are you eating? thursday, april 12, 2012
i told him to first have a spoon of his mousse, a sip of water, then  have a bite of the cake.
i just recently quit aspartame a few months ago and am soo happy i did!
it’s silly to forget that.
the best sweetener for you is “black strap molasses”.
alas, her  recommendations were ignored.
knowing what we know about the 40-some-odd years of aspartame’s existence, splenda (made ofsucralose), has an equally young past.
what’s in my clean eating healthy kitchen?
my body let me know it wasn’t good for me, that was really enough.
sigh…there goes my daily cup of coffee.
look at  the instances of people who were bought off, paid off, pushed aside, ignored  all to get this product approved.
i am very inspired by your weight loss and clean eating.
i tell them i eat plain sugar, honey, and maple syrup.
i think drugs are of a big concern for women who are pre-, peri- and post menopausal.
there  is no lesser of the two evils.
we all (hopefully) have reasons for making the  decisions we make.
many people –many people - claim they experience withdrawals when they take a break from products containing aspartame.
(pears contain 60mg/kg formaldehyde, which is also present naturally in apples, bananas, seafood, etc) also: your own body makes it anyway as part of the digestive process.
i just eat a  lot less of it and make it worth the indulgence.
diet soft drinks don’t have high fructose  corn syrup in them!
later that same year, he resigned as  u.s. attorney and withdrew from the case, delaying the grand jury’s  investigation.
oh my! citrus collard greens with raisins q&a wednesday: “the ‘itis,” “ethnic fatigue” and food comas
it has aspartame in it.
some  researchers claim to have linked aspartame to brain tumors and lymphoma, but  the fda insists that the sweetener is safe for humans.
the giant pot of spaghetti pasta with tomato and almond pesto
you cannot live a fully healthy life if you ingest chemicals to survive.
if you didn’t know all of this about aspartame before you decided to make  it a staple in your diet, is it time to reassess whether or not it belongs in  your diet?
it has a low caloric level, and it contains 600mg of potassium and 11mg of salt.
someone already did: “when aspartame was put before the fda for approval, it was denied eight times.
otherwise people who like pears would be in trouble!
phenylalanine occurs naturally in the brain.
but it prompted me to look into it
no, you’re absolutely right.
next, if it has no vitamins or minerals in it, it’s not worth my time ingesting it.
i trust a natural cycle much more than i trust a cycle created by people in white coats with big glasses and stockholders to please.
i have a  family history of cancer… what do i look like putting known  cancer-causing agents (also known as carcinogens) in my body?
a list of complaints  submitted to the department of health and human services includes headaches,  dizziness, diarrhea, memory loss and mood changes.
it took me a whole year to come around to a solid healthy understanding of this.
a list of complaints submitted to the department of health and human services includes headaches, dizziness, diarrhea, memory loss and mood changes.
knowing what we know about the 40-some-odd years of aspartame’s
and he accepted the job with  searle’s law firm.
later that same year, he resigned as u.s. attorney and withdrew from the case, delaying the grand jury’s investigation.
in 1981, new fda commissioner arthur hull hayes was appointed.
i do put a little honey in nightly cup of tea, though.
but it helps my digestion.
i suffer from pmdd and the number one thing doctors prescribe for it is paxil.
stick to the pure cane sugar, or other natural derivatives!reply i love your blog, but i think you’re missing the worst thing about diet soda–the acid that goes directly on your teeth.
however, it wasn’t smooth sailing from there.
they are chemicals meant to trick your body  into thinking they are something they aren’t.
it took me about 3hrs to grocery shop that day b/c i had my notes of what to look for so reading and shopping for better items took awhile!
alas, her recommendations were ignored.
potassium is an electrolyte, and you need electrolytes to keep your heart beating.
i’ve known it all along, that until i face the truth about my eating, i’ll continue to be a hamster on a wheel.
i recently decided to cut calories in my coffee with splenda and i believe it made me very “jumpy” and “jittery”.
the board said it had not been presented with proof of reasonable certainty that aspartame is safe for use as a food additive.”
look at flouride also.
i told him to first have a spoon of his mousse, a sip of water, then have a bite of the cake.
to dumb them down and have no emoitons so that they wouldnt give a hoot about what he was doing to them!
lemon juice also damaged tooth enamel significantly as well.
thanks for this information.
i don’t remember where i read this but it was a trustworthy, reliable, medical or public interest source.
*does the touchdown dance all across my loft* yessssssssssss!!!!!!
kudos to you – a comment so nice, i had to respond twice.
sucralose has been found to cause diarrhea; organ, genetic, immune system, and reproductive damage; swelling of the liver and kidneys: and a decrease in fetal body weight.
the comforting side of food you might like...
the only other instance i can think of where a person is willfully introducing a mind-altering chemical into their system… definitely causes withdrawal symptoms when people break from it.
so what if it has a little arsenic?
anyway, i also wanted to add that it is also very worth it to eat as much organic things as possible.
people who believe that the primary concern is calories… will drink a diet pop because the calorie count is low.
you are cheating your insides –screw what you look like on the outside – if you don’t care for them as much as you care for your abs, your booty, your legs or whatever else you adore.
dr. martha freeman, a scientist from the fda division of metabolic  and endocrine drug products, declared, “the information submitted for  review is inadequate to permit a scientific evaluation of clinical  safety.”freeman
marion (a former soda guzzler)reply thank you for this article.
look at the instances of people who were bought off, paid off, pushed aside, ignored all to get this product approved.
oh how do i love that you wrote this entry!
stevia should be brown.
the case against diet soda (and aspartame… and splenda..  and….)
you are introducing chemicals into your system… period.
after days of articles, blogs and videos i read a lot of the stuff you mention in your article.
do you still want to be sexy and have your teeth when you’re 90?
even if it’s a clear fizzy drink.
the internal department of health and human services was investigating hayes for accepting gratuities from fda-regulated companies.
brand names that can be found are sweet leaf(stevia), truvia and purevia(stevia/erythritol blend), ideal and xylosweet(xylitol)reply neither xylitol nor erythritol are “all natural.”
most recently i realized these toxins are also in crystal lite-like water flavorers–i use to drink these all the time!
bottom line is you want to be healthy, and i just don’t healthy in anything artificial, like artificial sweeteners.
the case against soft drinks 48 responses to “the case against diet soda (and aspartame…  and splenda.. and….)”
tagged: aspartame, clean eating, dieting, equal, fad diets, fda,  government, healthy eating, high fructose corn syrup, nutrition, processed foods ,soft drinks, splenda, sucralose, sugar, sweeteners, sweetnlow «  being a fit mommy-to-be »
i want to get off these meds, and not exchange them for another daily  prescription because the “splenda/equal” chemicals have further  upset my hormonal balance.”
it amazes me how many people try to give me that nasty stuff because i’m  diabetic.
lololreply i definitely agree with your points about this “diet” stuff.
i’m not even going to go in on this.
i know i’ve been saying this for a while, but dang erika you are on a roll with these great posts!!reply
somehow, in 1974, searle got approval to use aspartame in dry foods.
i’m not trying to be dismissive of science and real scientific reason, but i am trying to make it clear – as history has already done before – that science doesn’t always know enough and until it does, i’ll stick with mother nature.
yoga: dancing sun the winner of our first recipe contest issss….. can fast food ever be a part of clean eating?
its been pretty difficult since i love coffee and tea, but i’ve started drinking my coffee black because i’ve recently adopted a ‘if i can pronounce the ingredients, i can’t eat it’ philosophy….
keep your wisdom coming!
sorry for the long post
let me just say, knowledge is power!
g.d. searle, founder of aspartame, tried to get fda approval in 1973.
we say pop in pennsylvania… when i moved to florida everybody gave me ish cuz i didn’t say ‘soda’reply hah, here in the midwest everything is a “coke”.
i need to take heed: listen to yourself – if you’re looking to run and hide from your feelings in a sweet treat, then it doesn’t matter what kind of sugar is in it.
after he demolished it, he asked me how i lost as much  weight as i did if i could bake like that.
i’m sure  you’re familiar with heroin… cocaine… meth… i could  go on, but i’m sure you get the point.
girl who lived on mcdonalds since age 2 collapses biggest loser trainer sued for pushing supplements?
i’ve been saying these things for so long, i’m happy i’m not the only one.
it’s rather quite silly~ in any case thanks for your input regarding the subject at hand.
anyone whose had the bagged stuff and then green tea leaves learns immediately that there is a definite difference in flavor and potenance.
i just eat a lot less of it and make it worth the indulgence. ”
sweet and low is no saint, either.
i’ve switched to greek yogurt and plain popcorn (you can flavor it however you want).
splenda is made by chlorinated sugar, changing its molecular structure.
the amount  of trust we give our government officials would make sense if those positions  weren’t held by people with their own humanity to contend with.
the board said it had not  been presented with proof of reasonable certainty that aspartame is safe for  use as a food additive.”
[source] i’m going to focus on three major issues, here.
recommended that until the safety of aspartame was proven, marketing the product should not be permitted.
it’s like this country does everything in it’s power to make sire we get ill!!!!!reply i am sitting here with an omg face.
q&a wednesday: how do you track your intervals?
i’ve never been to this site before but someone on my timeline rt it on twitter and i had to come look.
when we introduce outside substances to our diet, our bodies deserve the  twenty minutes it might take to hit up your favorite wellness-promoting website  and do a search.
the amount of trust we give our government officials would make sense if those positions weren’t held by people with their own humanity to contend with.
some researchers claim to have linked aspartame to brain tumors and lymphoma, but the fda insists that the sweetener is safe for humans.
they make use of chemicals used for other purposes in nature in order to create flavors and tastes in a fashion that would bemuch more costly if the actual foods themselves were used to make the product!
thank you for the information you are posting.
there is no lesser of the two evils.
let’s talk about splenda.
i don’t notice an after taste because i have been drinking them for so long.
“[aspartame is a low-calorie sweetener made by joining two amino acids with an alcohol.
i know this is anecdotal
i will say this, though: i’m a firm believer in the philosophy that says “those who know better, constantly strive to do better.”
secondly, i’m a huge advocate of knowing what you’re eating  – both the positive and negative information – before you eat it.
reply aspartame was used as rat/mouse poison.
clearly, he wasn’t bothered by reports from neuroscientist dr. john olney and researcher ann reynolds (hired by searle himself) that aspartame was dangerous.
dentists call all soda, including diet soda–”drano for teeth.”
(in fact, in some cases, it’s literally zero calories.)
“in 1977, the fda asked the u.s. attorney’s office to start grand jury proceedings against searle for “knowingly misrepresenting findings and concealing material facts and making false statements in aspartame safety tests.”
this is why i only drink water!reply i found out about this
you cannot live a fully  healthy life if you ingest chemicals to survive.
i don’t even know what to add in my commentary – i agree with everything you’ve said.
i later learned from my doctor that splenda was “bleached sugar”.
i’ve heard some about aspartame and convinced my mom to stop drinking diet pops and she already sees the difference!reply i was a certifiable splenda addict, and i cut it out of my diet about a month ago.
they make use of chemicals  used for other purposes in nature in order to create flavors and tastes in a  fashion that would bemuch more costly if the actual  foods themselves were used to make the product!
i stopped shaking the nutrasweet packs a few years back, and changed to splenda.
despite the fact that three out of six scientists advised against approval, hayes decided to overrule the scientific review panel and allow aspartame into limited dry goods.
pilots aren’t allowed to drink it for that reason.
sweet and  low is no saint, either.
clean eating is  simple.
well gee, at least it  doesn’t have any calories.
if you didn’t know all of this about aspartame before you decided to make it a staple in your diet, is it time to reassess whether or not it belongs in your diet?
thirdly, this is the issue with processed foods.
reply thanks for this!
i don’t know how many different times, in how many different ways i can say this, but it goes as follows: i don’t care how many miles you run each day, how many pounds of weight you lift or how chiseled your muscles are.
u need very little of bothreply thanks for posting this again.
the fda finally urged congress to prosecute searle for giving the government false or incomplete test results on aspartame.
by  erika nicole kendall
the makers of  this poison tout its lack of calories and claim it’s safe for diabetics.
also, thank you for this blog!
the coke formula, when in concentrate, is labeled “corrosive.”
in addition to aspartame, equal contains the amino acid phenylalanine.
i can already see that i need to pay more attention to what i’m eating and not just the point values, but the health values.
despite  recognizing ninety-two different symptoms that result from ingesting aspartame,  the fda approved it for use,without restriction in 1996.
later, they went to work for the  law firm that represented searle.
reply so true about the flouride!
people who believe that the primary concern is calories…  will drink a diet pop because the calorie count is low.
formaldehyde is mainly dangerous if you inhale it, not ingest it.
secondly, a drink that has color and sweet sugary taste, but zero calories?
i haven’t heard nearly the same negative press about it as it’s derived from a plant…reply stay tuned.
[source] think about it – a chemical was created to cause the brain to react  to it in the same way as sugar.
the center for science in the public interest states that children should avoid drinks sweetened with aspartame.”
the center for science in  the public interest states that children should avoid drinks sweetened with  aspartame.”
for starters, this should lay to rest that philosophy of “if it were so bad for you, then the fda wouldn’t have approved it.”
i hate aspertame and saccharin and knew there were problems with those too.
anyway, one is natural and one is a scientific concoction meant to taste good.
this week’s clean eating boot camp assignment: portion control calf raises kfc’s double down reminds us: all calories are not created equal not-so-big love: when losing weight turns into a marriage proposal do you have your copy of meal plan 3?
and he accepted the job with searle’s law firm.
and just then, the record (or cd …or mp3) skipped.
so many questions i want to ask, but looking at your e-mail address, lol… that sounds like something worth digging into.
“it amazes me how many people try to give me that nasty stuff because i’m diabetic.
ever since i read that i never eat or drink anything with that in it!
“in a lab” with “not nary a single nutritive element” is not an acceptable comparison to “in nature” with “adequate nutritive value.”
but high levels can  increase the chance of seizures and lead to depression and schizophrenia.
told him “moderation, my dear doctor.
i couldn’t figure out why i was getting headaches after eating “healthy” lowfat yogurt and microwave kettle corn … that was why.
so basically id i cant kill it, grow it, or preserve it i do not eat it!
that why hitler used flouride for control of the people in germany!
despite the fact that three out of six scientists advised  against approval, hayes decided to overrule the scientific review panel and  allow aspartame into limited dry goods.
excerpted from friday 5: five things you should know about sweeteners |
we really have to scrutinize what we consume.
i buy it from a framer’s market.
coca cola/pepsi did indeed damage the tooth enamel significantly – but it didn’t dissolve it, at least in the time frames i used.
i guess i should have known splenda wouldn’t be much better.
no thanks!reply i just tossed all 6 variety of flavors and told the kids we will never have those again.
all those little diet dishes that are  “sweet” thanks to this stuff?
after this i went through all of my cabinets and the fridge and was so amazed how all these cancer man made products (hence man made) are killing us and they know it!
and there is evidence (that i didn’t see mentioned, but i might’ve missed because it’s been a bad day) that eating these sweet-without-sugar things confuses your brain and causes you to overeat later.
lastly, if it has high fruc– uh, not so fast, erika!
salts, sugars and potassium.
one more quote: because we’re having so much fun, lets bash the shit out of splenda, one of the newer sweeteners.
i finally gave it up after watching an episode of the reality show- “ruby” she is working on losing weight and her doctors told her to stop drinking diet pop
anyway, i’m glad i have someone else backing me up!
it’s hidden in all kinds of things, especially “low calorie” things.
i want to get off these meds, and not exchange them for another daily prescription because the “splenda/equal” chemicals have further upset my hormonal balance.”
but high levels can increase the chance of seizures and lead to depression and schizophrenia.
they sell genetically modified seeds so most of those “healthy” vegetables in big chain stores …..are super tainted.
some high people in high places pushed this.
splenda is made by chlorinated sugar, changing its  molecular structure.
this was straight 100%, in for hours, though, so it would not be real life (well unless you like to suck on lemons/ limes all the day).
this caused the statute of limitations on the charges to run out, and the investigation was dropped.
reply thank you so much for writing this erika.
g.d. searle, founder of aspartame, tried to get fda approval in  1973.
however, the two government attorneys  assigned to the case decided not to prosecute.
guess that should apply to beverages too.
i didn’t know suh specific information was available regarding the risks of ingesting low calorie chemical sweeteners… i just always knew that they weren’t natural and had no business being in my body.
it doesn’t have hfcs in it.
and though stevia – in leaf form – can be used as a sweetener (i don’t know… i won’t be using it), truvia and purevia are two things i won’t be recommending any time soon.
i drink the loose tea.
a lot of the way chemicals are processed by your body depends on the method of arrival.
clean eating is simple.
bottom line is you want to be healthy, and i just don’t healthy in anything “artificial”, like artificial sweeteners.
tagged: aspartame, clean eating, dieting, equal, fad diets, fda, government, healthy eating, high fructose corn syrup, nutrition, processed foods ,soft drinks, splenda, sucralose, sugar, sweeteners, sweetnlow« being a fit mommy-to-be i don’t drink or eat diet foods.
so i’m not sure why you are being (for lack of a better term) derogatory using repetitive and unneeded quotations throughout your deduction.
the other 2 percent contains small  amounts of heavy metals, methanol, and arsenic.
alcohol metabolizes to acetaldehyde
teen girls, weight loss surgery, body image and class distinctions on body image:
welp, that goes for flavored coffee creamer too.
the makers of this poison tout its lack of calories and claim it’s safe for diabetics.
reply i’m sorry i’m having trouble understanding the importance/relevance of holding an anonymous title and quoting a friend, it’s my choice.
(in fact, in some  cases, it’s literally zero calories.)
nor if i cant pronounce the ingredients!
we all (hopefully) have reasons for making the decisions we make.
reply look deeper into this.
shortly after, the u.s. attorney leading the investigation against searle was offered a job by the law firm that was representing searle.
one with an ingedient that kills rats and mice.
one more  quote: because we’re having so much fun, lets bash the shit out of splenda,  one of the newer sweeteners.
my mother absolutely cannot have sugar even in small amounts as it really just doesn’t agree with her system so stevia was suggested as an alternative.
i recommend stevia, a natural calorie free sugar or xylitol and erythritol, both all natural sugar alcohols and both calorie free as alternatives to regular sugar to my clients.
reply just quoting a friend here “when ingested, one of aspartame’s ingredients, methyl alcohol, converts into formaldehyde, a deadly neurotoxin.”
clean  eaters know a few things about this mentality: first, if you’re going to enjoy a zero calorie drink, it had better  be water.
it took me back to a conversation i had in sophmore year about high fructose corn syrup, and my friend, who was overweight, tried to tell me that ish was fine as long as it was in moderation.
ooooh, that’s so much better.
and since i’m ticking everyone off?
“in 1980, a review by the public board of inquiry set up by the fda determined that aspartame should not be approved.
i would get crazy headaches after i drank diet coke, until one day i looked up aspartame on the web and was blown away.
in 1983, he got it approved for  beverages,even though the national soft drink association urged the fda  to delay approval until further testing could be done.
in place of bread successfully converting away from eating red meat let your boo propose to you… with pizza hut?
spaghetti with italian turkey sausage a very big piece of my weight loss story vanity sizing: accidentally masking weight gain? q&a wednesday:
i’m mad i spent the money on it, but i had a very quick reaction to it.
the fda calls sucralose 98 percent pure.
“[aspartame is a low-calorie sweetener made by joining two amino  acids with an alcohol.
flouride does harmful things to the brain!
sucralose  has been found to cause diarrhea; organ, genetic, immune system, and  reproductive damage; swelling of the liver and kidneys: and a decrease in fetal  body weight.
don’t forget that “the method of arrival”
“your friend” says “a lot of the way chemicals are processed by your body depends on the method of arrival.”
reply *raising hand* i am die-hard fan of diet sodas especially diet coke/diet mt dew.
when ingested, one of aspartame’s ingredients, methyl alcohol, converts into formaldehyde, a deadly neurotoxin.
the fda finally  urged congress to prosecute searle for giving the government false or  incomplete test results on aspartame.
i baked some adult devil’s food mini-bundt cakes for a friend and saved one for my doctor this week who swears by that nasty diet chocolate jello mousse.
the foods are of the earth, i’m of the earth, this is a win.
that’s a highly processed product.
then i started getting migraines, crazy cravings and felt tired all the time.
i stay way from the stuff and will now even eliminate my consumption of table sugar…no more sweet tea!!!
fair to say i’ve dropped 30 pounds, and she…………..yeah.
stop drinking drano!!!
joanna 1 i don’t drink or eat diet foods.
i don’t like the aftertaste.
they are chemicals meant to trick your body into thinking they are something they aren’t.
reply i love that you are posting on ‘fake’ diet foods and supplements and how they are actually unclean because of all the chemical processing.
thanks for dropping the hint.
coriander chicken tostadas with refried beans and grilled fennel tarragon pot roast an open letter to the black blogosphere the effect of excess sugar on children’s teeth vietnamese beef-noodle soup with asian greens is race a factor in obesity counseling?
this is the point of this site.
also includes “how it was created” and “what it is paired with.”
the foods are of the earth, i’m of the earth, this is a  win.
in 1975, the fda put together a task force to review searle’s  testing methods.
i found a site that goes in on a company called masanto, look them up!!!
the finished product is called sucralose.
so…is sugar in a raw a better option?reply interesting post…i have been using raw sugar and it is something to get used to.
reply thanks for sharing trashing my splenda asap!reply another great article erika.
this thing even cleans and purifies swamp water and is used when natural disasters strike!
i think i know the source of my recent flare-up of cluster headaches: splenda.
can you possibly (if you haven’t done so already) do something on medications?
my last year of high-school.
(as well as the quantity)”
i’m trying to manage my condition naturally… through diet, exercise and relaxation techniques.
before aspartame actually made it into dry foods, olney and attorney and consumer advocate jim turner filed objections against the approval.
in 1983, he got it approved for beverages,even though the national soft drink association urged the fda to delay approval until further testing could be done.
it’s best to just decide to use sugar, or not use it, or find other sweeteners, like coconut sugar; it’s $10.00 a can, but it is the sugar recommended for diabetics.
believe it or not, i don’t share this stuff with the intention of telling anyone to give it up.
thank you for raising awareness of this and the other atrocities of the “diet food” industry.
told him “moderation, my dear  doctor.
i’m sure you’re familiar with heroin… cocaine… meth… i could go on, but i’m sure you get the point.
believe it or not, i don’t share this stuff with the intention of  telling anyone to give it up.
i don’t have to be a scientist to realize what you’re saying is true, it just speaks to my heart like, “yes, this is the piece that has been missing in your journey for so long”.
the interesting thing, really, was the number of people who admitted to  drinking diet soda.
the interesting thing about reading the responses to the case against soft  drinks, was the number of people who admitted “well, i don’t drink  that mess…
he went to work as a consultant for searle’s public relations firm.
someone already did: “when aspartame was put before the fda for approval, it was denied  eight times.
clean eaters know a few things about this mentality: first, if you’re going to enjoy a zero calorie drink, it had better be water.
well after reading this article, i have listed unopen bottles of creamer, big box of splenda to anyone that wants it on facebook.
[source] really, i’m over it.
before aspartame  actually made it into dry foods, olney and attorney and consumer advocate jim  turner filed objections against the approval.
diet soft drinks don’t have high fructose corn syrup in them!
what a splendid product!
it is approximately 180 times sweeter than sugar.]
every once of our body benefits from water.
but you can have a really scrumptious cake ever so often that is worth the wait.
[...] “nutrasweet and equal contain aspartame.
but you don’t see people saying the fda should re enact the prohibition.
can you weigh in on antidepressants, birth control, hrt and what not?
my point in sharing this information is so that we can, again, make educated decisions about the food choices we make.
reply splenda/sucralose is also a common migraine trigger.
this is the internet.
the only small problem is that many other natural sweeteners change the flavor of your food or beverage, to something you may not be accustomed to.
all thru hs i would drink diet soda to maintain my weight (which now looking back was body image issues)and all my black friends would look at me like i was nuts.
however, the two government attorneys assigned to the case decided not to prosecute.