you're about to drink - what is soy lecithin and why is it found in so many products?
- molly black on complete the sentence:
pin it a study recently published in the american journal of clinical nutrition has some good news: between the years 2000 and 2008, our daily intake of added sugars has gone down from 3.5 ounces to 2.7 ounces.
fooducate theme by neoease .
get fooducated: iphone app android app rss subscription or email subscription follow us on twitter: twitter.com/fooducate on facebook: facebook.com/fooducate categories: food label, fruit, news tags: added sugar, american journal of clinical nutrition, dr. jean welsh, fruit juice concentrate, sugar kraft 1 & kraft 2: the breakup 11 types of food additives - treena w. sugar and sugar substitutes throw so many systems in our bodies off balance.
validxhtml 1.1 and css 3.
it suppresses our immune system, cause havoc on our hormones and rewire our brains making us seek out sugary foods.
tomatoes instead of bugs - how hard is it to be vegan?
but many manufacturers have begun using fruit juice and fruit juice concentrate as their sweeteners, and these were not technically considered as added sugars by the study.
not selling pills, supplements, or diets.
treena wynes jim cooper i don’t think any of this has been established by research.
about providing practical advice for buying healthy food at the  supermarket.
if there is one ingredient that people need to wean themselves from is sugar and sweeteners.
rss feed email feed fooducate - eat a bit better™ on facebook about providing practical advice for buying healthy food at the supermarket.
contact: blog [at] fooducate [dot] com popular posts - guess
tomatoes instead of bugs - mama mel on cool whip.
they just happened to come from a fruit instead of sugar can or a beet.
it seems to us that a 25% reduction in our craving for sweets in less than 10 years is highly unlikely.
also prevention’s “the sugar solution” is one of my favorites.
- it's not about nutrition - la vida locavore - small bites - supermarket guru - weighty matters archives - april 2012 (23) - march 2012 (29) - february 2012 (29) - january 2012 (31) - december 2011 (29) - november 2011 (28) - october 2011 (32) - september 2011 (29) - august 2011 (28) - july 2011 (32) - june 2011 (30) - may 2011 (30) - april 2011 (31) - march 2011 (32) - february 2011 (28) - january 2011 (32) - december 2010 (28) - november 2010 (30) - october 2010 (29) - september 2010 (27) - august 2010 (33) - july 2010 (31) - june 2010 (30) - may 2010 (30) - april 2010 (30) - march 2010 (32) - february 2010 (29) - january 2010 (32) - december 2009 (32) - november 2009 (31) - october 2009 (35) - september 2009 (30) - august 2009 (32) - july 2009 (34) - june 2009 (32) - may 2009 (32) - april 2009 (35) - march 2009 (32) - february 2009 (26) - january 2009 (34) - december 2008 (38) - november 2008 (32) - october 2008 (52) - september 2008 (37) - august 2008 (20) pages - about - contests & giveaways @
- the new starbucks red dye:
they just happened to come from a fruit instead of sugar can or a  beet.
food and the brain: hunger satisfaction 5 cheap, in-season foods for your health your favorite gluten free foods are…?
i’ve met so many people that  don’t give artificial sweeteners a second thought.
it seems to us that a 25% reduction in our craving for sweets in less than  10 years is highly unlikely.
@ fooducate three reasons to rethink that diet coke
- 11 quick facts about phosphoric acid (
4 examples of marketing through nutrition labels complete the sentence: mcdonald’s at a hospital is like… categories
“the  sugar solution” is one of my favorites.
11 quick facts about phosphoric acid (yes, that chemical in coca cola)
if there is one  ingredient that people need to wean themselves from is sugar and  sweeteners.
salt saturated fat smart choices sodium soft drink sugar supermarket trans fat usda vegetable vitamin c water yogurt resources - harvard's nutrition source - understanding & using food labels - us dietary guidelines we like to read: - civil eats - every kitchen table - food politics
what happens when you mix pepsi and a hard boiled egg?
- added sugars come by many different names – table sugar, corn  syrup, high fructose corn syrup, cane juice, and more.
not cool conqueror57 on
no industry affiliations.
- added sugars come by many different names – table sugar, corn syrup, high fructose corn syrup, cane juice, and more.
- home - about - quick food facts - food labels are confusing - allergy resources - sugar synonyms - fast facts about fats and oils - caffeine content in beverages - the many names of monosodium glutamate (msg) - contests & giveaways @
so what’s inside yoplait yogurt
despite  their healthy  sounding name, these are sugars with no added health  benefits.
fooducate home > food label, fruit, news > recent study:  we’re consuming less sugar.
in my book, eating ourselves crazy, i discuss how sugar  actually contributes to mood disorders.
that’s almost a 25% decrease!
this includes the seemingly innocent fruit juice concentrate.
contact: blog [at] fooducate [dot] com popular posts guess
tomatoes instead of bugs mama mel on cool whip.
recent study: we’re consuming less sugar.
what to do at the supermarket: when looking up ingredient lists, make sure sugar or its synonyms are not present in large quantities.
the study did not track an increase in the use of artificial sweeteners,  which might end up being even worse for many of us (here’s why)
treena wynes - jim cooper i don’t think any of this has been established by research.
fooducate home > food label, fruit, news > recent study: we’re consuming less sugar.
the study did not track an increase in the use of artificial sweeteners, which might end up being even worse for many of us (here’s why)
healthify your supermarket choices.
- closeup picture: the red bugs in your starbucks frappuccino - never eat fast food french fries again - whole foods market adopts "andi" nutrition rating system recent comments - adera17 on why i feed my daughter inferior food - heather on the new starbucks red dye:
pin it a study recently published in the american journal of clinical nutrition  has some good news: between the years 2000 and 2008, our daily intake of added  sugars has gone down from 3.5 ounces to 2.7 ounces.
kelli my vote is on the artificial sweeteners.
independent, objective food recommendations.
you're about to drink
this includes the seemingly innocent fruit juice  concentrate.
- schools started to massively reduce the presence of sweetened beverages around 2000-2001.
in my book, eating ourselves crazy, i discuss how sugar actually contributes to mood disorders.
the red bugs in your starbucks frappuccino never eat fast food french fries again whole foods market adopts "andi" nutrition rating system recent comments adera17 on why i feed my daughter inferior food heather on the new starbucks red dye:
it just  seems reasonable.
august 4th, 2011 leave a comment go to comments
that’s almost a 25%  decrease!
[foodlike substance] contests & giveaways
what's in the picture
what to do at the supermarket: when looking up ingredient lists, make sure sugar or its synonyms are not  present in large quantities.
there are a variety of excellent sources of research on the negative effects of sugar such as “pure, white and deadly” and “sweet and dangerous” by j. yudkin.
get fooducated: iphone app android app  rss subscription or  email subscription follow us on twitter: twitter.com/fooducate on facebook:  facebook.com/fooducate categories: food label, fruit, news tags: added  sugar, american journal of clinical nutrition, dr. jean welsh, fruit juice  concentrate, sugar treena w. sugar and sugar substitutes throw so many systems in our bodies off  balance.
yes, that chemical in coca cola) - what happens when you mix pepsi and a hard boiled egg?
“we were surprised to see that there was a substantial reduction over the years,” said dr. jean welsh, a researcher at emory university in atlanta and the lead author of the report.read more from reuters… when trying to interpret the data, researchers and analysts had several explanations: - the decrease is due to heightened awareness by consumers to the obesity and diabetes risks of added sugars (especially in sodas).
not cool - conqueror57 on
“we were surprised to see that there was a substantial reduction  over the years,” said dr. jean welsh, a researcher at emory university in  atlanta and the lead author of the report.read more from reuters… when trying to interpret the data, researchers and analysts had several  explanations: - the decrease is due to heightened awareness by consumers to the  obesity and diabetes risks of added sugars (especially in sodas).
it suppresses our immune system, cause havoc on our hormones and  rewire our brains making us seek out sugary foods.
- kelli my vote is on the artificial sweeteners.
kraft 1  & kraft 2: the breakup 11 types of food additives rss feed fooducate - eat a bit better™ on facebook
- schools started to massively reduce the presence of sweetened beverages  around 2000-2001.
there are a variety of excellent sources of research on the negative  effects of sugar such as “pure, white and deadly” and “sweet  and dangerous” by j. yudkin.
the new starbucks red dye:
eliminate nutrition label confusion.
tomatoes instead of bugs how hard is it to be vegan?
- food and the brain: hunger satisfaction - 5 cheap, in-season foods for your health - your favorite gluten free foods are…?
- 4 examples of marketing through nutrition labels - complete the sentence: mcdonald’s at a hospital is like… categories - cereal scan - food label - food safety - fooducate - fooducate mobile app - fruit - general - guest post - head2head - inside the label - news - nutrition impostors - organic - recipe - snacks - superfood - taste test - uncategorized - vegetable tags artificial colors calcium calories cdc cereal cholesterol citric acid coca-cola cspi fast food fat fda fiber food industry fruit general mills health claims hfcs high-fructose corn syrup junk food kellogg's milk new york times nutrition obesity oil organic peanut butter pepsico protein recall red 40
molly black on complete the sentence: mcdonald’s at a hospital is  like… recent posts 12 cheese facts [cheese miniseries, part 1/3] four food things to do on earth day have you ever had a yogurt salad?
it just seems reasonable.
[foodlike substance] - contests & giveaways @
i’ve met so many people that don’t give artificial sweeteners a second thought.
fooducate - three reasons to rethink that diet coke
but many manufacturers  have begun using fruit juice and fruit juice concentrate as their sweeteners,  and these were not technically considered as added sugars by the study.
mcdonald’s at a hospital is like… recent posts - 12 cheese facts [cheese miniseries, part 1/3] - four food things to do on earth day - have you ever had a yogurt salad?
fast facts about fats and oils caffeine content in beverages the many names of monosodium glutamate (msg) contests & giveaways @
or are we? august  4th, 2011 leave a comment go to comments
what is soy lecithin and why is it found in so many products?
fooducate - quick food facts - allergy resources - caffeine content in beverages - fast facts about fats and oils - food labels are confusing - sugar synonyms - the many names of monosodium glutamate (msg) top wordpress copyright © 2008-2012
despite their healthy sounding name, these are sugars with no added health benefits.