its leaves provide  an intense sweetness – some 300 times that of sugar.
the public’s reaction when seeing them on an ingredient declaration varies, depend on whether they are organic focused, just want to lose weight or are insulin dependent.
today, natural sugars are refined to the point of providing zero
one natural sweetener loved by naturopaths everywhere is stevia, which is grown in south america, and a relative of the chrysanthemum.
for the retail baker, replacing sugar offers many pitfalls;  and with new labelling regulations coming into effect at the end of this year,  any use of sugar substitutes requires an additional nutritional declaration.
maple syrup is  limited as an inclusionary ingredient, but does provide excellent flavour  profiles – both on its own, and with vanilla.
caloric values will remain high, and other ingredients have to be  introduced that mimic the tenderizing qualities of white sugar.
when looking at a cookie form-ula with 20 to 25 per cent sucrose, the sugar not only acts as a bulking agent, but provides sweetness, colour and appropriate texture.
those who would demonize sugar, include all types of refined sugar,  glucose, hfcs (high fructose corn syrup), invert sugar and icing sugar in the  term or broad category.
over thousands of years, our bodies have used natural sweeteners  such as fruit, honey, leaves and bark to satisfy the craving for  sugar.
artificial sweeteners have no place in a yeast dough; common  substitutes for sugar being lower levels of non-diastatic malt syrups or  molasses which support yeast fermentation activity, and promote crust browning.
today, natural sugars are refined to the point of providing zero nutrition, due to consumer concerns about weight gain, depression, inflammation, migraines and type 2 diabetes.
many other ingredients are available that perform the same function.
when we look at  modern-day sugar substitutes, a different picture emerges – the choice  beween polyalcohols and a chlorinated sugar or a no-calorie sweetener,  such as splenda® sucra-lose, is a difficult  one.
for many years, diabetics have used products sweetened with poly-alcohol sugars like sorbitol, xylitol, maltitol, and mannitol.
times are changing, with the successor to low-carb being low sugar or no sugar added, according to the new york times.
the position of sugar in the ingredient list and the nutritional facts table will largely determine how the general public views the baking industry’s ability to supply nutritious and beneficial foods.
the use of sugar in daily breads and buns is totally unnecessary, other than to provide a cheap bread softener.
splenda® is a trademark of mcneil  nutritionals, llc advertisers: contact us  | advertise | post a job | post an event readers: contact us | subscriber centre  | e-newsletter | post an event | comment  | return & cancellation policies ©  2007-2012 annex business media.
that being the case, what are the choices for the baker looking for a refined sugar replacement?
these are natural sweeteners that do not trigger an  insulin reaction (xylitol can be derived from birch tree pulp).
rice or barley syrups are produced by using enzymes to convert  the starch into a sweet syrup.
for the baker, darker honey, such as buckwheat, can give character to baked goods such as muffins and cookies.
privacy policy - terms & conditions
they have  half the calories of sugar, and are not digested by the small  intestine.
its leaves provide an intense sweetness – some 300 times that of sugar.
as a retail baker, most of my recipes combine two or three sugar substitutes,  the easiest to source being splenda® or splenda® sucralose –  artificial sweeteners which can be bought either commercially or from a local  supermarket.
as yet, it is not recognized by health canada or the fda as a sweetener, so it cannot be used as a dietary supplement.
as with all artificial sweeteners, consumption over extended periods of time, toxicology tests and long-term use will determine stevia’s safety in food products.
caloric values will remain high, and other ingredients have to be introduced that mimic the tenderizing qualities of white sugar.
first, a return to  sweeteners long forgotten – honey, molasses, rice, barley and maple  syrups.
the overall  trend for more healthy baked goods is being vocalized by all segments of  consumers, from the schools through to seniors looking for good nutritious  foods to form part of a well-balanced diet.
as a retail baker, most of my recipes combine two or three sugar substitutes, the easiest to source being splenda® or splenda® sucralose – artificial sweeteners which can be bought either commercially or from a local supermarket.
for the retail baker, replacing sugar offers many pitfalls; and with new labelling regulations coming into effect at the end of this year, any use of sugar substitutes requires an additional nutritional declaration.
for white sugar to syrup recipe conversions, start at straight weight exchange, and reduce the liquids by 25 per cent – some minor adjustments may be required.
honey is available in light, amber and dark, with taste and colour  determined by the surrounding flora.
one natural sweetener loved by naturopaths everywhere is stevia, which is grown  in south america, and a relative of the chrysanthemum.
this dark syrup has a pronounced taste and flavour, and is high in minerals, including iron.
for many years, diabetics have  used products sweetened with poly-alcohol sugars like sorbitol, xylitol,  maltitol, and mannitol.
the others that i use most frequently include maltitol and xylitol, each bringing a specific function to the baked goods.
the  most economical and readily available is no. 1 blended canadian, which comes  pastuerized (this process kills yeasts and some bacteria) or non-pastuerized.
for white sugar to syrup recipe conversions, start at straight  weight exchange, and reduce the liquids by 25 per cent – some minor  adjustments may be required.
these are natural sweeteners that do not trigger an insulin reaction (xylitol can be derived from birch tree pulp).
when  looking at a cookie form-ula with 20 to 25 per cent sucrose, the sugar not only  acts as a bulking agent, but provides sweetness, colour and appropriate  texture.
consider  resistant starches and gums, since they are readily available in small  quantities, together with recommended uses.
those who would demonize sugar, include all types of refined sugar, glucose, hfcs (high fructose corn syrup), invert sugar and icing sugar in the term or broad category.
malt syrup is better tolerated by diabetics because it doesn’t stimulate insulin production.
when we look at modern-day sugar substitutes, a different picture emerges – the choice beween polyalcohols and a chlorinated sugar or a no-calorie sweetener, such as splenda® sucra-lose, is a difficult one.
malt syrup is better tolerated by diabetics  because it doesn’t stimulate insulin production.
as an industry, we sell  sugar in many guises, from the icing on a cake to the soft breads and rolls  that are part of our daily diet.
we use maltitol in a straight one-to-one substitution in sponge cakes, and splenda® in cookies and muffins.
brian hinton solves the sweet mystery.
honey is available in light, amber and dark, with taste and colour determined by the surrounding flora.
grandma’s cookies, cakes and muffins have been imprinted on  us for life, and we look for these tastes in the bakery section each and every  visit.
formulating with substitutes at the retail level is error prone, and  diagnosing how to fix inferior baked goods can be hit and miss.
they have half the calories of sugar, and are not digested by the small intestine.
that being the case, what are the choices for the  baker looking for a refined sugar replacement?
because of their high humectancy, syrups will attract moisture and keep products soft for extended periods of time.
by the start of 2007, it’s estimated that over 11 per cent of all  new food products on store shelves will be labelled “reduced  sugar.”
maple syrup is limited as an inclusionary ingredient, but does provide excellent flavour profiles – both on its own, and with vanilla.
as yet,  it is not recognized by health canada or the fda as a sweetener, so it cannot  be used as a dietary supplement.
barbados molasses comes from whole cane sugar, and is less sweet, with a fraction of the minerals.
since early childhood, sweet treats have been the comfort food of choice for most of us.
nutrition, due to consumer concerns about weight gain, depression,  inflammation, migraines and type 2 diabetes.
artificial sweeteners have no place in a yeast dough; common substitutes for sugar being lower levels of non-diastatic malt syrups or molasses which support yeast fermentation activity, and promote crust browning.
since early childhood,  sweet treats have been the comfort food of choice for most of us.
the position of sugar in the  ingredient list and the nutritional facts table will largely determine how the  general public views the baking industry’s ability to supply nutritious  and beneficial foods.
molasses varieties include blackstrap, which is produced during the refining of white sugar – look for the unsulfured grade.
written by brian hinton brian hinton solves the sweet mystery.
over thousands of years, our bodies have used natural sweeteners such as fruit, honey, leaves and bark to satisfy the craving for sugar.
go into  any supermarket and usually, there are free cookies to  sample.
grandma’s cookies, cakes and muffins have been imprinted on us for life, and we look for these tastes in the bakery section each and every visit.
as an industry, we sell sugar in many guises, from the icing on a cake to the soft breads and rolls that are part of our daily diet.
the most economical and readily available is no. 1 blended canadian, which comes pastuerized (this process kills yeasts and some bacteria) or non-pastuerized.
sorbitol is 50 per cent as sweet as sugar, its gras (generally  recommended as safe) rating in baked goods for use at 30 per cent.
go into any supermarket and usually, there are free cookies to sample.
the others that i use most frequently include maltitol and  xylitol, each bringing a specific function to the baked goods.
the use of sugar  in daily breads and buns is totally unnecessary, other than to provide a cheap  bread softener.
consider resistant starches and gums, since they are readily available in small quantities, together with recommended uses.
as with all artificial sweeteners,  consumption over extended periods of time, toxicology tests and long-term use  will determine stevia’s safety in food products.
many other ingredients are available that perform the same  function.
molasses varieties include blackstrap, which is produced during the refining of  white sugar – look for the unsulfured grade.
rice or barley syrups are produced by using enzymes to convert the starch into a sweet syrup.
these characteristics are essential, and must be maintained when a switch to artificial sweeteners is made.
privacy policy - terms  & conditions
the overall trend for more healthy baked goods is being vocalized by all segments of consumers, from the schools through to seniors looking for good nutritious foods to form part of a well-balanced diet.
by the start of 2007, it’s estimated that over 11 per cent of all new food products on store shelves will be labelled “reduced sugar.”
barbados  molasses comes from whole cane sugar, and is less sweet, with a fraction of the  minerals.
formulating with substitutes at the retail level is error prone, and diagnosing how to fix inferior baked goods can be hit and miss.
these characteristics are essential, and must be maintained when a  switch to artificial sweeteners is made.
home profiles business operations technical formulas about us | contact us | subscription centre | advertise | sitemap | buyers guide magazine current issue past issues news archives web features video marketplace new products classifieds baking books job board community blog events the business advisor resources buyers guide e-newsletter links digital magazine sitemap baking without sugar solving the sweet mystery written by brian hinton
the public’s reaction when  seeing them on an ingredient declaration varies, depend on whether they are  organic focused, just want to lose weight or are insulin dependent.
times are changing, with the successor to  low-carb being low sugar or no sugar added, according to the new york times.
for the baker, darker honey, such as  buckwheat, can give character to baked goods such as muffins and cookies.
this dark syrup has a  pronounced taste and flavour, and is high in minerals, including iron.
because of their high humectancy, syrups will  attract moisture and keep products soft for extended periods of  time.
sorbitol is 50 per cent as sweet as sugar, its gras (generally recommended as safe) rating in baked goods for use at 30 per cent.
first, a return to sweeteners long forgotten – honey, molasses, rice, barley and maple syrups.
we use  maltitol in a straight one-to-one substitution in sponge cakes, and  splenda® in cookies and muffins.
splenda® is a trademark of mcneil nutritionals, llc advertisers: contact us | advertise | post a job | post an event readers: contact us | subscriber centre | e-newsletter | post an event | comment | return & cancellation policies © 2007-2012 annex business media.