today there are twenty-five artificial and man-made sweeteners on the market.
“probably the best thing is to avoid them  both.”
artificially-sweetened and no-calorie sodas may indeed help consumers lose weight -- if they count calories and burn them through exercise, according to michael jacobson, executive director of the center for science in the public interest(cspi).
“there's been no obvious increase in  cancer rates since artificial sweeteners became widely consumed.
“twenty  years ago we urged the fda not to approve it and the agency dismissed our  concerns.”
“i’m very dubious of it,” said jacobson.
just because a product claims to be from a natural source does not prove that it is safe, according to thecspi.
that’s welcome news to pinckert, who said she eats fewer sweet foods  throughout the day thanks to her splenda-saturated coffee.
as for concerns about calories, hayes explains that a true teaspoon of  sugar – not a heaping one -- has just fifteen calories that are easily  burned off in sixteen minutes of sleep.
their popularity is fueled by america’s obsession with weight loss.
today there are twenty-five artificial and man-made sweeteners on the  market.
their research showed that  aspartame caused cancer – lymphoma and leukemia -- in laboratory rats.
“if you insist on having ‘diet’ this or ‘diet’ that, splenda or sucralose is probably the safest.
there has been a “cloud of doubt” over aspartame, marketed as equal and nutrasweet in a blue packet, since it was approved by the fda thirty years ago and a small percentage of people report side effects such as headaches and dizziness as a result of consuming products with aspartame, according to jacobson.
after her morning fix, she’ll eat a sucralose-sweetened yogurt or two.
photos and videos truth about artificial sweeteners “i don’t like sugar,” said pinckert.
but don’t dismiss the little white packet, encourages the sugar  association.
as for concerns about calories, hayes explains that a true teaspoon of sugar – not a heaping one -- has just fifteen calories that are easily burned off in sixteen minutes of sleep.
only five  percent of parents polled identified it correctly.
but the risk of illness to humans who consume small amounts of aspartame  appears to be minimal.
artificials are not eating into the  market too much,” saidphillip hayes of the sugar association.
“still, i think drinking a diet soda is better than the ten to twenty teaspoons of sugar you're going to get in a real soda, plus all those calories,” said jacobson.
the sugar association has petitioned the food and drug administration to follow canada’s lead and clear up consumer confusion with front-of-package labeling for artificial sweeteners.
follow nbcwashington
jacobson’s pick of all the packets?
the sugar association has petitioned the food and drug administration to  follow canada’s lead and clear up consumer confusion with  front-of-package labeling for artificial sweeteners.
jacobson said seltzer water, milk, or just plain water are safer and healthier options for drinks.
too bad it is often mixed with acesulfame k which has real serious question marks, and shouldn’t be on market,” said jacobson.
“i try to stay  away from sugar between the crash and the calories.”
more significant were the first-ever independent studies of aspartame, conducted by italian scientists, jacobson said.
these artificial  sweeteners are not magical,” said jacobson.
getty images advertisementadvertisement every morning in the rockville office of on the marc media, public relations specialistmadeline pinckert hears the same joke from her colleagues.
pinckert is an admitted addict of the artificial sweetener.
jacobson said seltzer water, milk, or just plain water are safer and  healthier options for drinks.
but the risk of illness to humans who consume small amounts of aspartame appears to be minimal.
there's no epidemic of new cancers, so the risk is very low if these really do cause cancer.”
“you want some coffee with your splenda?”
“i figure if my one vice is the least harmful of all the sweeteners, then i feel okay about it,” said pinckert.
more significant were the first-ever independent studies of aspartame,  conducted by italian scientists, jacobson said.
artificial sweeteners more photos and videos
“it’s not a death sentence if you drink diet coke with aspartame,” said jacobson.
saccharine -- better known as sweet'n low in the pink packet -- is well-studied, but results are mixed.
“still, i think drinking a diet soda is better than the ten to twenty  teaspoons of sugar you're going to get in a real soda, plus all those  calories,” said jacobson.
pinckert’s plunge into artificial sweetness started a few years ago.
“there's been no obvious increase in cancer rates since artificial sweeteners became widely consumed.
she typically tears open six yellow packets at a time for each cup of coffee.
for example, according to poll results, acesulfame k, the sweetener that the cspi thinks should be off the market, is virtually unknown to parents.
“i think a lot of people think, ‘oh, i'll drink this diet soda  and the pounds will melt off.’
that’s welcome news to pinckert, who said she eats fewer sweet foods throughout the day thanks to her splenda-saturated coffee.
it has  not caused cancer or significant other problem in the animal studies that have  been conducted.
“i try to stay away from sugar between the crash and the calories.”
an incurable sweet-tooth, pinckert wanted to trade out real sugar, especially because her taste buds demanded so much of it.
the closest jacobson came to calling an artificial sweetener unsafe was when he warned against acesulfame k, a sweetening agent found in soda and chewing gum.
the closest jacobson came to calling an artificial sweetener unsafe was  when he warned against acesulfame k, a sweetening agent found in soda and  chewing gum.
and some of them may actually be harmful, depending on the medical study  you believe.
artificially-sweetened and no-calorie sodas may indeed help consumers lose  weight -- if they count calories and burn them through exercise, according to michael jacobson, executive director of the center for science in the public  interest(cspi).
these artificial sweeteners are not magical,” said jacobson.
only five percent of parents polled identified it correctly.
posted wednesday, feb 24, 2010 - 10:14 am est tweet
there's no  epidemic of new cancers, so the risk is very low if these really do cause  cancer.”
there have been  many studiesshowing that it causes cancer in animals and a couple of studies  showing it causes cancer in people, and then there are many other studies  showing that it doesn't cause cancer,” said jacobson.
it’s twenty packets a day,” said pinckert.
common artificial sweeteners have very little name recognition, the poll found, so parents are unaware of what they’re giving their children.
“it’s not a death sentence if you drink diet coke with  aspartame,” said jacobson.
there have been many studiesshowing that it causes cancer in animals and a couple of studies showing it causes cancer in people, and then there are many other studies showing that it doesn't cause cancer,” said jacobson.
truvia and purevia, brand names of a sweet substance derived from the stevia plant, are too new on the market and inadequately studied, said jacobson.
“if you insist on having ‘diet’ this or  ‘diet’ that, splenda or sucralose is probably the safest.
saccharine -- better known as sweet'n low in the pink packet -- is  well-studied, but results are mixed.
there has been a “cloud of doubt” over aspartame, marketed as  equal and nutrasweet in a blue packet, since it was approved by the fda thirty  years ago and a small percentage of people report side effects such as  headaches and dizziness as a result of consuming products with aspartame,  according to jacobson.
their popularity is fueled by america’s obsession with weight  loss.
“sales of sugar have been steady.
“with saccharine, there are question marks about it.
truvia and purevia, brand names of a sweet substance derived from the  stevia plant, are too new on the market and inadequately studied, said  jacobson.
hayes pointed to a recent harris poll on artificial sweeteners which showed three in five americans believe they are somewhat or not at all safe.
just because a product claims to be from a natural source does not  prove that it is safe, according to thecspi.
it has not caused cancer or significant other problem in the animal studies that have been conducted.
“i don’t like sugar,” said pinckert.
but don’t dismiss the little white packet, encourages the sugar association.
“i’ve done the math.
“probably the best thing is to avoid them both.”
“i think a lot of people think, ‘oh, i'll drink this diet soda and the pounds will melt off.’
hayes pointed to a recent harris poll on artificial sweeteners which showed  three in five americans believe they are somewhat or not at all safe.
their research showed that aspartame caused cancer – lymphoma and leukemia -- in laboratory rats.
artificials are not eating into the market too much,” saidphillip hayes of the sugar association.
common artificial sweeteners have very little name recognition, the poll  found, so parents are unaware of what they’re giving their children.
and some of them may actually be harmful, depending on the medical study you believe.
for  example, according to poll results, acesulfame k, the sweetener that the cspi  thinks should be off the market, is virtually unknown to parents.
“twenty years ago we urged the fda not to approve it and the agency dismissed our concerns.”
too bad it is often mixed with acesulfame k which has real  serious question marks, and shouldn’t be on market,” said jacobson.
losing weight is so hard.
“i figure if my one vice is the least harmful of all the sweeteners,  then i feel okay about it,” said pinckert.