the problem with agave is that it’s basically a glorified hfcs from a metabolic perspective, if not even worse.
hi i appreciate this post so much and i apologize for this question as it may have already been addressed…i realize that you say white powdered stevia is not good because of its processing, but what about nunatural’s stevia…which has no other ingredient in it other than stevia?
image courtesy of: queenbeegardens.blogspot.com i think it’s really easy to fall for hype and marketing when it comes to the latest and greatest in the world of what robb wolf likes to call “better living through chemistry.”
maybe they’re not having the same weight loss problems that others are, but they are still going to incur negative effects of putting those chemicals into their system.
i would not eat packaged foods sweetened with stevia personally on any regular basis, though here or there they are probably okay.
you’ll love the challenge and you’ll feel great after.
as with all toxins that enter our system, they are stored in our fat cells.
21 comments hi diane, great insight, this has definitely made me rethink my use of sweeteners – i mostly use truvia, thinking i was doing the right thing…i think it might be time for a detox, yikes!!!
what are your thoughts on coconut crystals and nectar?reply diane, i am interested in what you have to say about this too.reply they’re natural sweeteners, not chemicals, but still sugar.
check out my simple, real-food based program: the 21-day sugar detox .
notify me of new posts by email.
it’s just $21 for the manual, supplement guide and faqs/what to expect guide (e-books/pdf downloads) and it’s filled with lots of paleo-friendly recipes.
http://amzn.to/ryueyr the liquid extract is okay, but i would just watch out for over-use/reliance on it for sweetness regularly.
i would also love more insight on agave.
granted, there are some people out there who are not overweight and who  consume non-caloric/chemical sweeteners.
author of “the practical paleo nutrition guide book,” an 80-page ebook guide to making a paleo diet easy!
examples: kashi golean crunch cereal: 1 cup serving size, 37g carbs, 13g sugar (more than 1 tbsp!)
google “non alcoholic fatty liver disease” if you want more on that.reply hi diane, great site!
i have stopped using them except truvia, which i see is on your list (will cut it out, too)!
sweeteners that come from nature are always better to consume than those that come from a lab or factory.
most people just want to know which are okay to eat and which are bad.
it’s probably made from the alcohol version of the stevia which is how they make the extract, but i personally wouldn’t use it with any regularity.
in an effort to keep this as short and sweet (pun intended) as  possible, i’m going to boil it down to a few key points 1.
non-chemical sweeteners are not necessarily “healthy,” it simply means that they’re refined from something that was found in nature and are not made from chemicals.
unfortunately, chemical sweeteners are not what he’s talking about there.
it’s just not going to work.
here’s how it goes… eat something sweet (regardless of calories) >  insulin is released > body stores nutrients.
when our bodies process fructose, our liver needs to begin the metabolic process before the sugars are broken down into their usable form of glucose in the body.
in an effort to keep this as short and sweet (pun intended) as possible, i’m going to boil it down to a few key points 1.
medscape article: “use of artificial sweeteners linked to 2-fold increase in diabetes” pubmed article: “the effect of artificial sweetener on insulin secretion.
now if i could just quite my 2x/week graveyard shift….reply i am wondering why you specify grade b maple syrup… what is the difference from grade a?reply this is so interesting, thank you!
what about the liquid stevias from sweetleaf that are flavored?
regardless of the source, it’s always best to minimize your exposure  to sweeteners.
for more on the subject, i would recommend checking out dorway.com and mercola.com and searching through some articles.
i don’t suggest that they are good for you but am wondering if the negative impact is the same as the other artificial sweeteners mentioned.reply
granted, there are some people out there who are not overweight and who consume non-caloric/chemical sweeteners.
when our bodies release insulin, we are in a storage-mode since insulin’s job is to put nutrients into your cells.
well, here’s the newsflash.
allow me to explain these points in some further detail.
studies have shown  that any sweet sensation can cause an insulin release in your body.
most people just want  to know which are okay to eat and which are bad.
contrary to the popular belief that only calories can impact your  waistline, there is strong evidence to suggest otherwise.
sweeteners that come from nature  are always better to consume than those that come from a lab or factory.
a raw honey will be much more of a while/unrefined food and while relatively high in fructose as a percentage of it’s makeup, it’s much lower in fructose when compared to the refined sweeteners.
typically, non-chemical sweeteners can be metabolized by our bodies while chemical sweeteners cannot and are considered toxins within our system.
i was tempted to try it but thought i would so a little more research before i wasted the money.
contrary to the popular belief that only calories can impact your waistline, there is strong evidence to suggest otherwise.
the powder is white, opinions?reply what are you using it for and how often?
thanks for your valuable insight!
non-chemical sweeteners include: we can also classify things like high fructose corn syrup (hfcs), agave and brown rice syrup as non-chemical sweeteners though that sort of makes me cringe to say it.
would you use a clear honey without it’s natural yellow hue?reply
when our  bodies release insulin, we are in a storage-mode since insulin’s job is  to put nutrients into your cells.
the ingredients list inulin fiber and stevia extract as the only two ingredients and the box says it’s chemical free.
3.you don’t recommend agave as a sweetener?
finding hidden sweeteners in common foods & snacks:
but, of course, i can’t just say “eat this, not that” without some kind of explanation behind it.
the ingredients are water and stevia.
stevia is green in nature.
diane sanfilippo bs, certified nutrition consultant, c.h.e.k. holistic lifestyle coach is a new jersey-based holistic & paleo nutritionist serving clients locally and beyond (us & international) via phone, skype consultations and nutrition seminars nationwide.
maybe they’re not having the  same weight loss problems that others are, but they are still going to incur  negative effects of putting those chemicals into their system.
even if you don’t want to do the full detox, the recipes, tips & tricks are fantastic (if i do say so myself).
i have seen this pop up in a few recipes and just recently spotted it at the market.
so besides having the above-listed negative side-effects, the ramifications from the consumption of artificial sweeteners can be very far-reaching.
i rarely see those addressed in articles about artificial sweeteners.
diane sanfilippo bs, certified nutrition educator, c.h.e.k. holistic lifestyle coach san francisco nutritionist & paleo nutritionist serving the bay area and beyond via phone & skype consultations.
i wouldn’t advocate using any sweeteners with abandon, but most of the natural ones are fine here or there – not daily.
if we’re going to eat something sweet, calories should follow.
i would really appreciate your say on this because i consume that stevia.
required fields are marked * name * email * website comment you may use these html tags and attributes:              notify me of follow-up comments by email.
use it green or leave it.
do sugar alcohols fall under the same guidelines?
the point was that  you were avoiding consuming calories and maybe even trying to lose some body  fat.
thanks!reply read my post on truvia here: http://balancedbites.com/2011/01/there-is-nothing-honest-about-truvia.html i don’t recommend any stevia that’s white– the green powder or extract here or there is probably okay.reply your email address will not be published.
medscape article: “use of artificial sweeteners linked  to 2-fold increase in diabetes” pubmed article: “the effect of  artificial sweetener on insulin secretion.
chemical sweeteners are never okay.reply can you elaborate on agave a bit?
it may also contain additives and ingredients you don’t want to consume.reply thank you for this and for the links.
sweeteners: evaporated cane juice crystals listed 3rd after the grains and the added soy protein concentrate (which are both topics for another day), then brown rice syrup listed 4th and honey listed 8th.
if not, could you explain a little bit more about this?
i just don’t think they make much sense.
here are just a few of the studies published on the topic of the metabolic effects and insulin response resulting from the consumption of artificial sweeteners: a 2008 study in behavioral neuroscience “a role for sweet taste: calorie predictive relations in energy regulation by rats ” (pdf)
creator ofthe 21-day sugar detox “the 21-day sugar detox.”
co-host ofthe balanced bites podcast, a weekly radio show about all things health and nutrition with liz wolfe of cave girl eats.
i don’t care if it’s a fist full of honey vs a teaspoon of splenda – give me the honey!
studies have shown that any sweet sensation can cause an insulin release in your body.
the effect of acesulfame k on insulin secretion in the rat (studies in vivo).”
my guess is that the sweet taste will affect it.
the effect of acesulfame k on  insulin secretion in the rat (studies in vivo).”
and a few questions: 1.
i just avoid “foods” like that as a general rule anyway.reply i have a brand of stevia called sweetleaf.
thanks!reply it has a very high fructose content, leaving it very similar to hfcs in composition.
posted in 21-day sugar detox, blood sugar, carbohydrates, coconut, faqs, stevia, sugar and sweeteners, weight loss | 21 comments low or zero-calorie doesn't always mean zero effects on your waistline.
pss episode 15 – time 23:30 (sweeteners in tea/coffee) besides negative metabolic effects, artificial sweeteners have been identified as the cause of a litany of health problems including but not limited to: i don’t know about you, but if i was suffering from any of the above symptoms, i’m not sure that i’d be able to keep myself on the healthiest eating plan.
get email updates of new posts and my newsletter featuring blog digests, event info & special offers.
filled with tips, tricks, meal planning tools and recipes.
regardless of the source, it’s always best to minimize your exposure to sweeteners.
here’s how it goes… correct me if i’m wrong, but when you were taking in that non-caloric sweetener, you were trying to avoid storing anything, right?
pss episode 15 – time 23:30 (sweeteners in  tea/coffee) besides negative metabolic effects, artificial sweeteners have been  identified as the cause of a litany of health problems including but not  limited to: migraines and headaches
but don’t take my word for it.
i have lost weight since cutting back so much and starting the leptin rx.
the dish on sugar & sweeteners april 12, 2011 posted in 21-day sugar detox, blood sugar, carbohydrates, coconut, faqs,  stevia, sugar and sweeteners, weight loss | 21 comments low or zero-calorie doesn't always mean zero effects on your waistline.
the bottom line: anything that comes from nature will always be better for you than something that was made in a lab or a factory.
yoplait strawberry yogurt: 1 container serving – 6oz sweeteners: sugar listed 2nd, high fructose corn syrup listed 4th.
bust sugar and carb cravings in 21 days with the help and support of a community who is all in it together!
pss episode 21 – time 34:30 (does it halt/stall  weight loss?
i am just curious on your thoughts on coconut sugar and coconut nectar??
i get a ton of questions about sugar and sweeteners.
but, of course, i can’t  just say “eat this, not that” without some kind of explanation  behind it.
here are just  a few of the studies published on the topic of the metabolic effects and  insulin response resulting from the consumption of artificial sweeteners: a 2008 study in behavioral neuroscience “a role for  sweet taste: calorie predictive relations in energy regulation by rats ” (pdf)
be a sweetener detective!
correct me if i’m wrong, but when you were taking in that non-caloric  sweetener, you were trying to avoid storing anything, right?
fructose metabolism happens in the liver first, which is not ideal for us… taxing our livers with excess fructose isn’t something we want to do.
our livers are hard at work just trying to detox our system, so putting more pressure on them with refined sweeteners isn’t something we want to do.
most people who consume artificial sweeteners  are thinking that they’re doing themselves a favor by avoiding calories,  but what’s happening in their bodies is pretty much the opposite of their  goal.
i am thinking your 21-day sugar detox could be for me.
pss episode 21 – time 34:30 (does it halt/stall weight loss?
book a seminar or get details.
i have metabolic syndrome and started low carb in april, lost 10 lbs and no more but was using artificial sweeteners.
our livers need to work on so many metabolic and detoxification processes that lessening the blow in any way we can is a good plan.
most people who consume artificial sweeteners are thinking that they’re doing themselves a favor by avoiding calories, but what’s happening in their bodies is pretty much the opposite of their goal.
could i share this in my blog?
i haven’t tried it yet and wondering if it’s recommended?
all sweeteners, caloric or non-caloric, can contribute to weight-gain or prohibit weight loss.
does fruit raise insulin levels in the way other sweeteners do?
agave is comprised in the greatest percentage of fructose (possibly higher in fructose than high fructose corn syrup depending on the brand/type/etc.).
(note: i originally published this post last year but somehow the  formatting got really fouled up in the blog transition so i had to re-publish  it… here you go!)
all sweeteners, caloric or non-caloric, can contribute to  weight-gain or prohibit weight loss.
chemical sweeteners include: okay in moderation, use organic whenever possible: never use!
i have also heard about some issues with ibs/ibd triggering from sugar alcohols.
2.how many portions of fruit a day do you recommend?
the point was that you were avoiding consuming calories and maybe even trying to lose some body fat.
if not, where can we find green stevia?reply i added some links to the stevia above– here it is also:
also if a product has stevia listed as an ingredient, is it safe to assume they used the plant, or could it still be the white powder or some other fake version?reply hi there- thanks and welcome to the site.
thank you so much, sophie …reply a girlfriend of mind likes using the sweat leaf stevia packets in moderation for a sweetener.