click on  the 'comprehensive panels', then 'order panel ii' if you wish to take the test.
yet, censorship by the fda goes on!"
this is important to  diabetics, low-carb dieters, and glucose intolerants.
if you are allergic to corn, you would avoid corn syrup as a food  sweetener.
it has  a reduced glycemic index of 20 verses 100 for glucose.
currently, aspartame is consumed by over 200 million people around the  world and is found in more than 6,000 products including carbonated soft  drinks, powdered soft drinks, chewing gum, confections, gelatins, dessert  mixes, puddings and fillings, frozen desserts, yogurt, tabletop sweeteners, and  some pharmaceuticals such as vitamins and sugar-free cough drops.
you might be happiest with thestevia products, especially the white  stevia powder.
you can click on find a clinician to locate a nearby dr to order this test for you.
it too has a  strong taste and contains iron, calcium and potassium date sugar is ground from dehydrated dates.
so a quest for new,  safe, tasty sweeteners was begun.
this product contains  sorbitol which may cause diarrhea, bloating, and abdominal pain.
it has not yet been commercially produced as a  sweetener, but it is available as a honey and a jam sugar alcohols: xylitol, sorbitol, erythritol, mannitol, maltitol,  lactitol.
however it is important to remember that most of those who get in trouble with any kind of a sweetener have done so because of over indulgence.
it has drafted a petition  to protest suppression of this health information and hopes to present congress  more than a million signatures by january 1, 2006.
some inulin-based products are beflora plus and bake flora.
there may also be insulin resistance and the  development of obesity.
then there are natural verses refined sugars.
the fda has approved it as a food supplement,  but not as a sweetener.
it is the only sugar alcohol  which fights the bacteria that causes gum disease and cavities.
on november 9, rep. ron paul (r-tex.) and seven other members of congress  introduced the health freedom protection act (h.r. 4282) to prevent the food  and drug administration (fda) and federal trade commission (ftc) from censoring  information about dietary supplements.
the test i use for allergies is thecomprehensive panel ii from alcat.com.
the  most commonly consumed sugars are sucrose, dextrose, corn syrup and fructose.
if you are allergic to corn, you would avoid corn syrup as a food sweetener.
if you are not  allergic to it, as discussed above, my opinion is that it is one of the safer  of the artificial sweeteners.
saccharin also works well as a sugar  substitute in cooking.
they  are not allowing information which has been well researched and can be found in  the research literature to be associated with a product.
according to the liberty committee, "in 1994, the u.s. congress ordered the fda to let the public have access to scientific articles and publications on the role of nutrients in disease by passing the dietary supplement health and education act (dshea)....
according to the liberty committee, "in 1994, the u.s. congress  ordered the fda to let the public have access to scientific articles and  publications on the role of nutrients in disease by passing the dietary  supplement health and education act (dshea)....yet, censorship by the fda goes  on!"
sweet and sugar  everywhere, with hardly a food label without a form of sweetener.
but you probably have not thought much about them being an issue from an allergy/intolerance point of view.
we know sugar is bad for us, but are we able to avoid it  most of the time????
there can also be  increased triglycerides, an interference with copper metabolism, and increased  uric acid as in gout.
citizens have called for the fda to require a warning label on sorbitol  containing products to read as follows, "notice:
sugar alcohols occur  naturally in foods and come from plants such as fruits and berries.
yacon is a sweet root from south america which is used there to lower blood  sugar and help treat diabetes.
the best of the natural sweeteners  for minimal blood sugar effect are stevia, lo han kuo fruit, and the sugar  alcohols to be discussed below.
saccharin is one of the most studied food ingredients and the totality of  evidence indicates it is safe for human consumption.
it was used for centuries  by the indians in south america as a remedy for diabetes and gum disease.
it can create more gastrointestinal discomfort and diarrhea than  xylitol., or the other sugar alcohols.
brown rice syrup or granulated brown rice sweetener is made from  brown rice and sometimes sprouted whole barley.
you can use it  as syrup or a powder.
stevia can vary in taste.
it also  decreases plaque formation.
but my eyes were red, burning, itching, and my eyelids were crusty and stinging.
this is one of my least recommended and the most dangerous of the  alternative sweeteners.
the  tendency towards this varies with each product.
though approved for use in 50 countries, it is not  approved in the united states.
this may result in  problems.
these are a  blend of oligofructose, fructose(hydrolyzed from the oligofructose) , and  enriched sprouted mung bean extract.
aspartame was nevertheless later approved,  despite the persistence of inconclusive evidence as to its safety, and  aspartame somewhat knocked saccharin down and almost out of the market place  for awhile.
in the united  states, all food ingredients, including aspartame, must be listed in the  ingredient statement on the food label.
neither of these increase blood sugar, increase insulin  levels, increase weight, or are associated with adverse symptoms.
the drawback is a small amount of the sweetener acesulfame k is  added to the nutritive mixture upon which the sprouted mung beans are grown.
as of may 2004 over 3000 products were marketed which are  sweetened with splenda.
"i was born when all i once feared, i could love." .rabia the way up newsletter 12/15/05 artificial sweeteners namaste and welcome to the way up newsletter
for more you can see http://www.nunaturals.com/products/lohan.html d-tagatose (whey-low, naturlose) is a natural whey-derived sugar  which has 1 calorie per gram verses table sugar at 4 calories per gram.
avoid aspartame (nutrasweet, equal) and all  the artificial sweeteners except saccharin.
it has drafted a petition to protest suppression of this health information and hopes to present congress more than a million signatures by january 1, 2006.
beflora plus is 10 times sweeter than  sugar, and beflora is equal to sugar in sweetness.
those of us who have a sweet tooth and are trying our best to stay healthy have a true dilemma.
organic molasses as a syrup or a powder.
and that is only what is  added to food and drink, excluding the naturally occurring food sugars.
the first 2 natural sweeteners are the most recommended of the group.
who would have ever thought????
we are  conditioned to a sweet taste.
please go to http://www.emord.com to print and to sign this petition, then get others to sign it and mail it in.
it is found naturally in honey, mushrooms and other  foods.
amasake (is a sweet creamy beverage made from fermented sweet brown rice), fruit concentrate or fruit juice sweeteners are often used in sugar  free pastries and other food and drink items.
there are also "natural sweeteners", other than cane or beet sugar.
but  my eyes were red, burning, itching, and my eyelids were crusty and stinging.
there can also be increased triglycerides, an interference with copper metabolism, and increased uric acid as in gout.
if you only want to check for the artificial sweeteners, you can save  money by just ordering the 10 food additives panel for $87.50.
this includes 100 foods, 21 molds, 10 food additives such as the artificial  sweeteners, 10 food colorings, and 10 common environmental chemicals and costs  $381.92.
some people are not necessarily "allergic" to glucose (sugar) or fructose (fruit sugar) , but are nevertheless intolerant of these sugars or have a metabolic difficulty processing them in their bodies.
it is not adequately studied and some  of the studies are controversial.
until next time, many blessings priscilla slagle m.d. "don't cry because it's over----smile because it happened" home | quick order | product catalogwe can be reached by e-mail or phone:
some studies suggested that controlling gum infections in  diabetics also helped to control and to decrease blood sugar.
a study showed  that as many as 18% of premature births were caused by gum disease, an impact  as strong as that of smoking or alcohol abuse.
stevia has also been reported to possess anti-viral activity and may have blood  pressure lowering properties.
after all, the usda statistics show the average consumption of sugar to be about 20 teaspoons daily.
agave nectar is extracted from the inner core of the agave cactus  plant.
it is derived from  sugar by enzymatic conversion to isomaltose.
this includes 100 foods, 21 molds, 10 food additives such as the artificial sweeteners, 10 food colorings, and 10 common environmental chemicals and costs $381.92.
stop eating or drinking anything with refined white sugar (sucrose,  glucose ) on some labels.
these sugars raise blood sugar and insulin levels more than others do and can pile on fat.
these glucose and fructose intolerances can be tested as part of the fia comprehensive 5000 analysis atspectracell.com and click on lab services.
stopped the equal and the eyes  cleared, restarted and the problem came back.
stopped the equal and the eyes cleared, restarted and the problem came back.
xylitol helps prevent sinus and ear infections, and may guard against  osteoporosis.
molasses is a by product of  the process of refining sugar cane in to table sugar.
saccharin (sweet n low, sugar twin, sucaryl, sweet magic, zero-cal) saccharin was first discovered in 1879 and has been used around the world  for almost 100 years.
it  is boldly flavored but can be a good substitute for brown sugar.
if a  sweetener is listed as one of the first ingredients on a product, it is one of  the main components of that food by weight, so avoid it.
in a related matter, emord & associates, a law firm specializing in constitutional and administrative law, has started a national petition campaign to end the fda's and ftc's violations of the first amendment.
after all, the usda statistics show the average  consumption of sugar to be about 20 teaspoons daily.
i'll tell you right up front that saccharin is the safest of the  "artificial" sweeteners and stevia is one of the safest of the  natural sweeteners.
what is the safe maximum daily dose?
you may have heard some of the  general drawbacks of the artificial sweeteners which would apply to most  people.
what are the possible side effects of "artificial sweeteners"?
sorghum syrup is produced by crushing sorghum plants.
there may also be insulin resistance and the development of obesity.
please go to http://www.emord.com to print and to sign this petition, then  get others to sign it and mail it in.
cyclamate (sugar twin) has lingering questions about toxicity risks,  especially testicular.
organic dried natural cane juice (sucanet) may contain some  calories, but also has some nutritional value.
but trehalose is commercially produced from cornstarch, which can cause  allergic reactions and stomach irritations in some people.
bakeflora is equal to sugar  in sweetness.
but i have found  some excellent products which do not do this.
all who eat sugar alcohols must be careful of the quantity of intake because  excessive consumption of the sugar alcohols can cause gas and/or diarrhea.
grade a is the lightest and least maple tasting while grade c  is the heaviest and darkest.
splenda has had considerable recent promotion, but is not a sweetener i  advise using.
brown  rice sweeteners have a mild flavor similar to honey but less intensely sweet.
these usually have no calories and do not raise blood sugar.
congressman paul explains that the health freedom protection act specifically will: (1) stop the fda from censoring truthful claims about dietary supplements; (2) stop the fda from prohibiting the distribution of scientific articles and publications regarding the role of nutrients in protecting against disease; and (3) address the ftc's violations of the first amendment.
the old fear about it possibly being implicated  in bladder cancer has been debunked.
did an updated allergy test on myself and lo and behold, a severe allergy to aspartame.
you can see more on these products at http://www.roxlor.com/bakeflora/prodapp.html barley malt is a slow digesting sweetener made from sprouted barley  which is broken down in to the sugar maltose.
it is more  nutritious re vitamins, minerals, and trace elements than most other sweeteners.
there it is fermented  by bacteria in the bowel and there it feeds organisms such as the desirable  acidophilus and bifidus.
it  is 90% as sweet as sucrose and 2.1 calories per gram.
you  can click on find a clinician to locate a nearby dr to order this test for you.
being an ex~sugarholic, and liking a sweet taste, i thought i was doing fine with some aspartame found in equal and nutrasweet.
aspartame (equal, nutrasweet)
this  sugar alcohol has fewer calories and a better digestive tolerance than most of  the other sugar alcohols except xylitol.
children are especially prone to this.
its delicate flavor allows it to meld well with other ingredients.
while there click through the various categories to read about what is happenening with the health freedom protection act and from there follow the instructions for emailing your represenatives of your support for the act.
to protect your freedom to purchase  nutritional supplements bill introduced to stop fda's censorship: the fda is again  placing restrictions on what can be said about nutritional supplements.
maltitol is made from maltose which is derived from chicory and roasted malt.
lo han kuo fruit (slimsweet, sweetlife) is derived from a chinese  fruit containing a natural sweetening agent called a mogroside which is 300  times sweeter than cane sugar.
for more detail about potential risks with splenda see http://www.splendaexposed.com/ or for a complete book on the topic see  http://www.issplendasafe.com/ acesulfam-k ( sunette, sweet & safe, sweet one) was approved by  the fda for use as a sweetener in 1988.
it is a complex sugar which  allows it to be broken down and absorbed more slowly than simple sugars, thus  causing less of a blood sugar spike, but still will impact blood sugar.
i also had a moderate  allergy to saccharin most commonly found in sweet n low.
symptoms of fructose intolerance can be behavioral changes, depressed  immune function, dizziness, fatigue, headache, and weakness.
it is 500 times sweeter than sugar.
you may have heard some of the general drawbacks of the artificial sweeteners which would apply to most people.
you can browse  around their website for more information.
vary the sweeteners you do use.
being an ex~sugarholic, and liking a sweet taste, i  thought i was doing fine with some aspartame found in equal and nutrasweet.
we know sugar is bad for us, but are we able to avoid it most of the time????
sweet and sugar everywhere, with hardly a food label without a form of sweetener.
sweet molasses or light  molasses has a lighter flavor than blackstrap molasses which has a strong  bitter tart favor which is too interfering to use as a sweetener unless you  don't mind it influencing the taste of whatever is being sweetened.
the common brand name is sweet and low.
to protect yourself, start by eating no more than  one serving at a time.
inulin passed  through the upper bowel to reach the lower bowel intact.
click on the 'comprehensive panels', then 'order panel ii' if you wish to take the test.
all of the natural sweeteners contain some  calories, (though less than sugar) except for stevia and lo han kuo fruit stevia extract is derived from the leaves of the stevia plant.
congressman paul explains that the health freedom protection act  specifically will: (1) stop the fda from censoring truthful claims about  dietary supplements; (2) stop the fda from prohibiting the distribution of  scientific articles and publications regarding the role of nutrients in  protecting against disease; and (3) address the ftc's violations of the first  amendment.
a glucose/insulin metabolism imbalance can be a cause of hypoglycemia or hyperglycemia (diabetes).
but you probably have not thought much about them being an issue from  an allergy/intolerance point of view.
however,  remember if it tastes very sweet it likely has too much sweetener in it.
raw organic honey is not heated or processed and thus maintains the  nutrients found in honey.
i also had a moderate allergy to saccharin most commonly found in sweet n low.
it is safe to use with no  consumption limits other than some risk for gas or diarrhea with too high an  individual dose, but xylitol causes less gastrointestinal symptoms than most of  the other sugar alcohols.
pre-approval research has shown that long term  or heavy use may contribute to serious chronic immunological or neurological  disorders.
it is 50-70% as sweet as sugar and 1.6  calories/gram.
it is used in some prepared and  baked foods.
you can browse around their website for more information.
stevia is 250-300 times sweeter than glucose.
it is approved for use as a sweetener in 35 countries and  is starting to become more popular in the u.s.
neither of these increase blood sugar, increase insulin levels, increase weight, or are associated with adverse symptoms.
the japanese food processors have used it widely  in many foods since the 1970's.
maple syrup is one of the best liquid sweeteners.
select from the list of natural  sweeteners above.
it is high in fiber and  rich in vitamins and minerals.
there has been considerable debate  and controversy about these ill effects.
stevia or lo han kuo are healthy and preferable.
i'll tell you right up front that saccharin is the safest of the "artificial" sweeteners and stevia is one of the safest of the natural sweeteners.
symptoms of fructose intolerance can be behavioral changes, depressed immune function, dizziness, fatigue, headache, and weakness.
until next time, many blessings priscilla slagle m.d. "don't cry because it's over----smile because it happened" please email me with your suggestion for future newsletter topics at pslagle@dc.rr.com home | quick order | product catalog we can be reached by e-mail or  phone: e-mail:pslagle@dc.rr.com
studies have also suggested  xylitol increases energy by enhancing atp production, increases utilization of  fat, increases endurance, and has antioxidant functions.
when  applicable, organic is always preferable.
use small amounts as it is very  sweet.
alternative sweeteners should you stay as sweet as you are?
did an updated allergy test on myself and lo  and behold, a severe allergy to aspartame.
sorbitol is commonly used in a wide range of dietetic foods, liquid over the  counter, and prescription medicines.
these  sweeteners can be used with diabetes, but can mildly change blood sugar levels.
how can you  find your way through the markets maze and craze to cater to our conditioned  taste for sweets?
the  test i use for allergies is thecomprehensive panel ii from alcat.com.
" erythritol is a white powder with a taste similar to sucrose, but about 70% as  sweet and 0.2 calories/gram, the lowest calories of the sugar alcohols.
xylitol has been well researched with around 1500  published studies. .
the food test portion will also test for cane, corn and beet sugar allergies.
trehalose is a new sweetener.
so a quest for new, safe, tasty sweeteners was begun.
it is not as sweet as honey.
the topic is alternative sweeteners, but before we get to that, if you want to be able to read about alternative health matters and what certain supplements can do for you, on november 9, rep. ron paul (r-tex.) and seven other members of congress introduced the health freedom protection act (h.r. 4282) to prevent the food and drug administration (fda) and federal trade commission (ftc) from censoring information about dietary supplements.
artificial (chemical) sweeteners
this most often is stated as pear  or apple juice concentrate,.
i like it because it also creates no increase in  blood sugar and contains no calories.
these are a combination of the simple sugars,  fructose, glucose, and sucrose.
splenda is actually made from sugar, so you would not use it if you are  allergic or intolerant to sugar.
how can you know if you don't tolerate certain "artificial  sweeteners"?
this may result in problems.
it tastes like a cross between honey and maple syrup.
it is useful in cooking, but not in sweetening  beverages as the tiny pieces will not dissolve.
are they also harmful?
now, on to the newsletter.
some people are not necessarily "allergic" to glucose (sugar) or  fructose (fruit sugar) , but are nevertheless intolerant of these sugars or  have a metabolic difficulty processing them in their bodies.
the  rest of the natural sweeteners can be varied and used in moderation.
i am sure i am not  the only one.
it also inhibits yeast overgrowth.
challenges to the safety  of saccharin began in 1977.
those of us who have a sweet tooth and are trying our best to stay healthy  have a true dilemma.
there are also "natural sweeteners", other than cane or beet  sugar.
inulin is what is called a fructo oligosaccharide, very high in  soluble fiber, with minimal blood sugar and insulin consequence.
you can use saccharin (sweet and low).
a glucose/insulin metabolism imbalance can be a cause of hypoglycemia or  hyperglycemia (diabetes).
that is why h.r. 4282 was introduced and is being pushed by a coalition of some 50 companies and organizations.
xylitol is an excellent choice for sugarless gum.
a  problem i previously found with some of the liquid extracts of stevia was the  taste was too strong and overwhelmed what i was sweetening.
it does not cause significant  changes in blood sugar or insulin levels, and has 40% less calories than  regular sugar.
other symptoms of this imbalance can be cold hands and  feet, disorientation, dizziness, fatigue, headache, nausea, and any of the  other myriad of symptoms associated with too high or too low blood sugar.
if you only want to check for the artificial sweeteners, you can save money by just ordering the 10 food additives panel for $87.50.
how can you know if you don't tolerate certain "artificial sweeteners"?
whey sugar does contain  lactose, so those intolerant of this should avoid.
what are our alternatives?
what are the possible  side effects of "artificial sweeteners"?
what i  like about stevia is it contains no calories and does not increase blood sugar,  so it is safe for diabetics and hypoglycemics.
we are conditioned to a sweet taste.
fortunately, we can test for that.
there are 3 grades  of maple syrup.
other symptoms of this imbalance can be cold hands and feet, disorientation, dizziness, fatigue, headache, nausea, and any of the other myriad of symptoms associated with too high or too low blood sugar.
namaste and welcome to the way up newsletter the topic is alternative sweeteners, but before we get to that, if  you want to be able to read about alternative health matters and what certain  supplements can do for you, act now!
that is why h.r. 4282 was introduced and is being pushed by a  coalition of some 50 companies and organizations.
this contains 2.3 calories per gram.
xylitol is preferable to the other sugar alcohols .
however,  some are problematic when used in excess.
how can you find your way through the markets maze and craze to cater to our conditioned taste for sweets?
if you really want to delve in to this, you can read the  book, deadly deception - story of aspartame [1998].
three senate hearings have  been conducted on the safety of aspartame, and the center for science in the  public interest (cspi) in washington, d.c., now lists it as the third-worst  additive.
isomalt is 45-65% as sweet as sugar and 2 calories/gram.
inulin is  usually derived from jerusalem artichokes, or chicory roots.
however it is important to remember that most of those who get in trouble  with any kind of a sweetener have done so because of over indulgence.
the fda and ftc  violate free speech by trying to control what is communicated about  nutrient-disease associations, according to the firm.
it was discovered in 1891 and  has been used as a sweetener since the 1960's.
in a related matter, emord & associates, a law firm specializing in  constitutional and administrative law, has started a national petition campaign  to end the fda's and ftc's violations of the first amendment.
sugar alcohols do not have sugar, but do have carbohydrates, and  approximately ½-3/4 the calories of regular sugar.
the manufacturers have created a sweets polluted  diet for us and continue to exploit our desires for "sweet".
the fda and ftc violate free speech by trying to control what is communicated about nutrient-disease associations, according to the firm.
while there click through the various  categories to read about what is happenening with the health freedom protection  act and from there follow the instructions for emailing your represenatives of  your support for the act.
it does not affect blood sugar or  insulin levels.
the manufacturers have created a sweets polluted diet for us and continue to exploit our desires for "sweet".
the food test portion will also test for cane, corn and beet sugar  allergies.
fructose  can elevate triglycerides levels.
you can see my newsletter on thehealth effects of excess insulin.
interestingly, the same time as the "political  way" was being paved for aspartame which was introduced in to our food  supply in 1981, after first being approved in 1974, then withdrawn because of  sloppy research from 1967-1975.
it is also the most extensively added to our food and  drink.
you can read his statements at http://www.hr4282.org/paul.htm
avoid high fructose corn syrup, brown sugar, which is  often mixed with molasses or sprayed with caramel coloring , raw sugar, corn  syrup, and turbinado sugar.
and that is only what is added to food and drink, excluding the naturally occurring food sugars.
these glucose and fructose intolerances can be tested as part of the fia  comprehensive 5000 analysis atspectracell.com and click on lab services.
the most commonly consumed sugars are sucrose, dextrose, corn syrup and fructose.
lactitol is derived from lactose (from milk) and is 30-40% as sweet as sucrose  and 2 calories/gram.
these sugars raise blood sugar and insulin levels more than others do and can  pile on fat.
what is the safe maximum  daily dose?
they even sent me an  alert letter giving me 15 days to remove some correct information from my web  site, or to risk search and seizure at my place of business.
not suitable  for consumption by children.
see theaspartame consumer safety network, the aspartame (nutrasweet)  toxicity information center, or aspartame the bad news for relevant details.