- artificial flavors and artificial colors – food additives have been linked to behavioral problems in children.
beer, wine and alcoholic drinks – this one pains me  since i do like my glass of wine in the evening.
pigs are also known to host large concentrations of parasitic ascarid worms in their digestive tract.
combine that with daily exercise and i weigh within two pounds of my weight in high school.
- campylobacter is one of the most common causes of diarrheal illness in humans.
- what’s in your shampoo?
white sugar – sugar–including sucrose, corn  sweeteners, honey, and molasses–is, in a sense, the number-one food  additive.
enriched white flour just means that a few isolated and synthetic vitamins and minerals have been added back into the flour.
pigs will scavenge and have been  known to eat any kind of food, including dead insects, worms, tree bark,  rotting carcasses, garbage, and even other pigs.
- about - contact - articles - index - copyright and disclaimer verda vivo verda vivo means “green life” in the universal language of esperanto.
another reason not to eat pork is that factory hog farms are some of the worst polluters in america’s history.
nitrates can turn into nitrites which  have been found to cause cancer and tumors in test animals.
- shellfish and crustaceans – lobsters, crabs, shrimp, clams, mussels, oysters, crayfish and scallops are bottom scavengers or filter feeders.
i’ve often wondered why humans are the only species that drink the milk of another animal.
pigs are also known to host  large concentrations of parasitic ascarid worms in their digestive tract.
- raw shellfish oysters and other filter feeding shellfish can concentratevibrio bacteria that are naturally present in sea water, or other microbes that are present in human sewage dumped into the sea.
plus, if they worked, why are so many americans fat?
you’ll find it in soda, fruit juice, baked  goods, canned fruits, dairy products, cooks, gum, jam, jellies,  pickles…you get the picture.
if you drink one can of soda per day, you will consume 55,000 extra  calories in one year, or 15 pounds of weight gain.
whether or not artificial sweeteners are “safe” for our health, why consume an artificial product when a natural one if available?
comments (3) 6 dirtiest foods in america september 30, 2008 filed under: food, green — verda vivo @ 5:00 am tags: e. coli, food poisoning, foodborne illnessses, hamburger, listeria, poultry, raw eggs, raw milk, salmonella, shellfish, staph an estimated 76 million cases of foodborne disease or food poisoning occur each year in the united states according to thecenters for disease control and prevention (cdc).
additionally, infected fishermen have contaminated oysters as they harvested them.
related posts: artificial sweeteners – how sweet are they?
- 5 ways to clean your toilet naturally - flapper failure flushes dollars down the toilet - questionable convenience - donate your prom dress recent comments - verda vivo on book review: shift your habit - beautiful girl on book review: shift your habit - shelly hardage-wilkerson on book review: shift your habit - giselle on 14 reasons not to drink soda - lorraine gardner on 14 reasons not to drink soda categories select category beauty and fashion (32)
health authorities recommend that consumption of trans fat be  reduced to trace amounts.
the problem with hfcs is that the body  handles fructose differently than all other sugars.
powered by wordpress.com
this site reflects my passion for environmental issues, climate change, conservation, pollution, recycling, organics and "going green".
- ditch the soda habit - food additives cause hyperactive behavior - high fructose corn syrup is natural - natural sweeteners – how sweet they are - poison shrimp cocktail enjoy this post?
raw milk and raw dairy products may carry many types of disease-causing germs such as campylobacter, e. coli, listeria, salmonella, yersinia, and brucella.
when he said they simply plugged it back onto the cow’s udder, i got a little queasy.
plus, if they worked, why  are so many americans fat?
i dislike most prepared foods  and normally shop the perimeter of the grocery store.
i find soft drinks too sweet  for my taste.
do you want cheese with that burger?
tags: artificial colors, artificial sweeteners, high fructose corn syrup, hydrogenated oils, hydrolyzed soy protein, milk, pork, raw milk, shellfish, soft drinks, white flour, white sugar jordan rubin, author of “perfect weight america” lists the “dirty dozen” food items that we all should avoid for better health.
- artificial sweeteners – as many as 194 million americans regularly eat and drink sugar-free products.
that’s why eggs are washed and sanitized at the processing plant.
read more at my about page.
that means that a few bacteria present on the seeds can grow to high numbers of pathogens on the sprouts.
- listeria was recognized as causing human foodborne illness in 1981.
carbonated soft drinks are the worst offenders in the american diet.
most of these cases are mild and cause symptoms for only a day or two.
he concedes that some might be controversial.
fructose does not stimulate  leptin, the hormone that tell you “i’m full”.
fructose propels the liver into fat-promoting mode by activating the formation of enymes that lead to elevated levels of “bad” cholesterol and triglycerides.
pasteurized, homogenized skim milk – this one  surprised me.
pigs harbor a range ofparasites and diseases that can be transmitted to humans.
it turns up in some unlikely  places, such as pizza, bread, hot dogs, boxed rice mixes, soup, crackers,  spaghetti sauce, lunch meat, canned vegetables, fruit drinks, flavored yogurt,  ketchup, salad dressing, mayonnaise, and some peanut butter.
this strain is only one of about 2,000 kinds ofsalmonella bacteria; it is often associated with poultry and shell eggs.
the process produces trans fats.
the cdc estimates that there are 325,000 hospitalizations and 5,000 deaths related to foodborne diseases each year.
preventing cross- contamination and using proper cooking methods reduces infection by this bacterium.
however, his book was written for folks who are trying to lose weight and alcohol in all its forms is highly caloric.
in fat, it reduces ghrelin hormone levels, which tell you “i’m still hungry”.
while i have eliminated most of the foods on his list, there are some that surprised me, like skim milk.
enriched white flour just means that a few isolated  and synthetic vitamins and minerals have been added back into the flour.
of course there’s the problems associated with excessive drinking.
it turns up in some unlikely places, such as pizza, bread, hot dogs, boxed rice mixes, soup, crackers, spaghetti sauce, lunch meat, canned vegetables, fruit drinks, flavored yogurt, ketchup, salad dressing, mayonnaise, and some peanut butter.
if the ingredient list contains the words “shortening”, “partially hydrogenated vegetable oil” or “hydrogenated vegetable oil”, then the food contains trans fat.
the problem with hfcs is that the body handles fructose differently than all other sugars.
the consumption of trans fats increases  one’s risk ofcoronary heart disease by raising levels of  “bad” ldl cholesterol and lowering levels of “good” hdl  cholesterol.
more than 250 different foodborne diseases have been described.
contamination of eggs may be due to bacteria within the hen’s ovary or oviduct before the shell forms around the yolk and white.
americans regularly eat and drink sugar-free products.
- ground beef a single hamburger may contain meat from hundreds of animals.
pigs will scavenge and have been known to eat any kind of food, including dead insects, worms, tree bark, rotting carcasses, garbage, and even other pigs.
artificial flavors and artificial colors – food  additives have been linked to behavioral problems in children.
when i lived in oregon, we would go upriver to swim and catch  crayfish.
- milk each year, people become ill from drinking raw milk and eating foods made from raw dairy products.
i’ve often wondered why humans are the only species  that drink the milk of another animal.
that being said, i still have a nonfat latte every morning and love my cheese.
- all pork products – pigs are omnivores, which means that they consume both plants and animals.
according to thefda, hydrolyzed protein is used to enhance flavor and contains monosodium glutamate.
these include trichinosis, taenia solium, cysticercosis, and brucellosis.
no more crayfish for me, thanks.
since “man does not live by bread alone”, how can you avoid getting food poisoning?
the crayfish went crazy, coming out of their hiding places from all over, to devour the tasty goodness.
the bacteria are found in foods made by hand and improperly refrigerated, such as chicken salad.
look for whole-grain breads or flour as a healthy alternative.
the crayfish went crazy, coming out of their hiding  places from all over, to devour the tasty goodness.
- pasteurized, homogenized skim milk – this one surprised me.
salmonella doesn’t make the hen sick.
when added this way, the labels are not required to list msg as an ingredient.
even if the label says “zero trans fat”, the fda allows  manufacturers to have less than 0.5 grams of trans fat per serving and still  legally use the term “zero trans fat”.
most of these diseases are infections, caused by a variety of bacteria, viruses, and parasites.
even though i love shrimp, i don’t eat much of it after researchingpoison shrimp cocktail.
subscribe by email search for: watch videos at vodpod and other videos from this collection.
religious groups that  consider pork unclean refer to these issues as support for their views.
religious groups that consider pork unclean refer to these issues as support for their views.
they have also been associated with allergies and skin rashes.
i’d rather eat my  own cooking.
of course, few people actually go through that much actual table sugar, but it is found in almost all of the processed foods we eat.
look  for whole-grain breads or flour as a healthy alternative.
- white sugar – sugar–including sucrose, corn sweeteners, honey, and molasses–is, in a sense, the number-one food additive.
i never thought much about what crayfish eat until my sister’s dog pooped in the water.
for example, certain strains of e. coli can cause kidney failure in young children and infants; salmonella can lead to reactive arthritis and serious infections; listeria can cause meningitis and stillbirths; and campylobacter may be the most common precipitating factor for guillain-barre syndrome.
when added this way, the labels are not required to list  msg as an ingredient.
it is also possible for eggs to become infected by fecal contamination through the pores of the shells after they’re laid.
and oysters, clams or mussels in  arizona?
according to thefda, hydrolyzed protein is used to enhance flavor and contains  monosodium glutamate.
health authorities recommend that consumption of trans fat be reduced to trace amounts.
fructose propels the liver into fat-promoting mode by activating  the formation of enymes that lead to elevated levels of “bad”  cholesterol and triglycerides.
artificial sweeteners – as many as 194 million
it is destroyed by cooking, but a cooked product can be contaminated by poor personal hygiene (in other words, wash your hands).
since raw milk  has risks based on the sanitary practices of the farm where it is produced, the  next best thing is cultured or fermented dairy whole-milk products, such as  yogurt and kefir.
since raw milk has risks based on the sanitary practices of the farm where it is produced, the next best thing is cultured or fermented dairy whole-milk products, such as yogurt and kefir.
the dirty dozen december 11, 2008 filed under: food, green, health — verda vivo @ 5:43 pm
- processed meats and hydrolyzed soy protein – processed meats contain nitrates for flavor, color and as a preservative.
related posts: - artificial sweeteners – how sweet are they?
of course there’s the problems associated with excessive  drinking.
unlike most of the milk, cheese, and dairy products sold in the united states, raw milk and raw dairy products have not been heat treated or pasteurized to kill germs.
- soft drinks – soft drink are empty calories with little or no nutritional value, considering most are made with high-fructose corn syrup.
when i lived in oregon, we would go upriver to swim and catch crayfish.
some cases are more serious.
the food and drug administration estimates that 2-3% of all foodborne illnesses lead to secondary long-term illnesses.
in fat, it  reduces ghrelin hormone levels, which tell you “i’m still  hungry”.
all pork products – pigs are omnivores, which means  that they consume both plants and animals.
if the ingredient list contains the words  “shortening”, “partially hydrogenated vegetable oil” or  “hydrogenated vegetable oil”, then the food contains trans fat.
the consumption of trans fats increases one’s risk ofcoronary heart disease by raising levels of “bad” ldl cholesterol and lowering levels of “good” hdl cholesterol.
these harmful bacteria cannot be seen or smelled.
- beer, wine and alcoholic drinks – this one pains me since i do like my glass of wine in the evening.
i weaned myself from my diet mountain dew habit over  a year ago and feel much better as a result.
here is a list of the foods most likely to make you sick, according to the cdc.
- poultry the following are bacteria associated with chicken: - enteritidis may be found in the intestinal tracts of livestock, poultry, dogs, cats and other warm-blooded animals.
while i have eliminated  most of the foods on his list, there are some that surprised me, like skim milk.
blogging (7) business (2) cars (15) energy (6) environment (121) family (26) food (63) garden (21) green (212) health (73) holidays (19) home (89) personal (6) politics (4) recycling (49) technology (14) transportation (26) travel (6) uncategorized (2) archives select month march 2010 july 2009 june 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 blogging resources - blogging basics 101 - is.gd - mylivesignature - one cool site - paint.net - problogger blogroll - best green blogs - cheap like me - dot earth (ny times) - eco-compass (island press) - enviroblog - green daily - green grounded - green living ideas - green options - grist - sustainable development and much more… - sustainablog - the golden art gallery - treehugger - verda vivo cooks shop green - big green purse - consumer reports: greener choices - freecycle - great green goods - reusablebags.com - swaptree - the daily green webroll - change.gov - earth 911 - environmental defense - environmental news network - food and water watch - how can i recycle this?
instead of skim milk, mr. rubin recommends unpasteurized milk  from grass-fed animals instead of homogenized, pasteurized milk.
the presence of these diseases and parasites is one of the reasons why pork meat should always be well cooked or cured before eating.
while i’m not a  vegetarian, i’ll think twice before buying any more pork.
you can reduce your risk for foodborne illness by following safe food-handling recommendations and by avoiding consumption of unpasteurized milk, raw or undercooked oysters, eggs, or ground beef, and undercooked poultry.
- high-fructose corn syrup – manufacturers use hfcs because it’s cheap.
- staph can be carried on human hands, in nasal passages, or in throats.
steer  clear of breakfast links, hot dogs, salisbury steaks, bologna, sausages,  salami, and lunch meats of all kinds.
so much for truth in  labeling.
the most commonly recognized foodborne infections are those caused by the bacteriacampylobacter, salmonella, and e. coli, and by a group of viruses called calicivirus, also known as thenorwalk and norwalk-like viruses.
sounds like an aphrodisiac to me.
the presence of these diseases and parasites is one of the reasons why pork  meat should always be well cooked or cured before eating.
i dislike most prepared foods and normally shop the perimeter of the grocery store.
most of these infections are undiagnosed and unreported.
that being said, i still have a nonfat  latte every morning and love my cheese.
pigs harbor a range ofparasites  and diseases that can be transmitted to humans.
soft drinks – soft drink are empty calories with  little or no nutritional value, considering most are made with high-fructose  corn syrup.
ditch the soda habit food additives cause hyperactive behavior high fructose corn syrup is natural natural sweeteners – how sweet they are poison shrimp cocktail
fructose does not stimulate leptin, the hormone that tell you “i’m full”.
they have also  been associated with allergies and skin rashes.
combine  that with daily exercise and i weigh within two pounds of my weight in high  school.
hydrogenated oils – during the hydrogenation  process, hydrogen gas in injected into oil under high pressure to make the oil  solid at room temperature and prevent the oil from becoming rancid too quickly.
hydrolyzed soy protein usually contains a significant amount of genetically modified soy.
my brother-in-law described working in a dairy as a young man when the milking machine fell into cow manure (still sucking away).
bacteria can be inside an uncracked, whole egg.
instead of skim milk, mr. rubin recommends unpasteurized milk from grass-fed animals instead of homogenized, pasteurized milk.
- hydrogenated oils – during the hydrogenation process, hydrogen gas in injected into oil under high pressure to make the oil solid at room temperature and prevent the oil from becoming rancid too quickly.
whether or not  artificial sweeteners are “safe” for our health, why consume an  artificial product when a natural one if available?
theme: rounded by release.
top posts - 5 ways to clean your toilet naturally - 14 reasons not to drink soda - top 10 world's worst pollution problems - the real cost of free plastic bags - phthalates - the poison plastic recent posts - book review: shift your habit - 12 food additives to avoid - mend it yourself - the big bread lie - what’s in your drain cleaner?
verda vivo means “green life” in the universal language of  esperanto.
if you drink one can of soda per day, you will consume 55,000 extra calories in one year, or 15 pounds of weight gain.
the dirty dozen december 11, 2008 filed under: food, green,  health — verda vivo @ 5:43 pm tags: artificial colors, artificial  sweeteners, high fructose corn syrup, hydrogenated oils, hydrolyzed soy protein, milk, pork, raw milk, shellfish, soft drinks, white flour, white sugar jordan rubin, author of  “perfect weight america” lists  the “dirty dozen” food items that we all should avoid for better  health.
steer clear of breakfast links, hot dogs, salisbury steaks, bologna, sausages, salami, and lunch meats of all kinds.
i find soft drinks too sweet for my taste.
while i’m not a vegetarian, i’ll think twice before buying any more pork.
common symptoms include nausea, vomiting, abdominal cramps and diarrhea.
- raw eggs bacteria can be on the outside of a shell egg.
white flour – white flour is white because the  wheat has been stripped of the wheat germ, bran, and half of the healthy fatty  acids and then bleached.
i weaned myself from my diet mountain dew habit over a year ago and feel much better as a result.
comments (16) welcome to verda vivo.
hydrolyzed soy  protein usually contains a significant amount of genetically modified soy.
when meat is ground, more of the meat is exposed to the harmful bacteria.
no more crayfish for me,  thanks.
i’d rather eat my own cooking.
subscribe in a reader orby email.
nitrates can turn into nitrites which have been found to cause cancer and tumors in test animals.
even though i love shrimp, i don’t eat much of it after  researchingpoison shrimp cocktail.
high-fructose corn syrup – manufacturers use hfcs  because it’s cheap.
my name is daryl warner laux.
additional information on food safety is available at http://www.foodsafety.gov/. resources: - centers for disease control and prevention - fight bac! - quality health: 6 dirtiest foods in america - usda: focus on ground beef enjoy this post?
processed meats and hydrolyzed soy protein –  processed meats contain nitrates for flavor, color and as a preservative.
and oysters, clams or mussels in arizona?
i’d rather drink water.
all in all, i follow most of mr. rubin’s recommendations.
according to the usda, pathogenic bacteria, such as salmonella, e. coli, campylobacter, listeria, andstaph cause illness and can be present in your meat.
carbonated soft  drinks are the worst offenders in the american diet.
you’ll find it in soda, fruit juice, baked goods, canned fruits, dairy products, cooks, gum, jam, jellies, pickles…you get the picture.
shellfish and crustaceans – lobsters, crabs,  shrimp, clams, mussels, oysters, crayfish and scallops are bottom scavengers or  filter feeders.
even if the label says “zero trans fat”, the fda allows manufacturers to have less than 0.5 grams of trans fat per serving and still legally use the term “zero trans fat”.
- junk mail opt out - natural resources defense council - nature conservancy - organic consumers association - skin deep: cosmetic safety database - stopglobalwarming.org - the golden art gallery - the green guide – national geographic - watersense meta - register - log in - entries rss - comments rss - wordpress.com blog at wordpress.com.
i never thought much about what crayfish eat until my sister’s  dog pooped in the water.
a large number of studies have detected norovirus in oysters.
the average american eats up to three pounds of sugar every week.
that’s because the egg exits the hen’s body through the same passageway as feces is excreted.
- alfalfa sprouts the conditions under which sprouts are grown are ideal for growing microbes as well as sprouts.
rss comments rss wp follow follow “verda vivo” get every new post delivered to your inbox.
another  reason not to eat pork is that factory hog farms are some of the worst  polluters in america’s history.
so much for truth in labeling.
however, his book was written  for folks who are trying to lose weight and alcohol in all its forms is highly  caloric.
of  course, few people actually go through that much actual table sugar, but it is  found in almost all of the processed foods we eat.
- white flour – white flour is white because the wheat has been stripped of the wheat germ, bran, and half of the healthy fatty acids and then bleached.