share your experiences with diets that didn't work
u.s. department of health and human services.
the encyclopedia of foods: a guide to healthy nutrition.
low-carbohydrate diets.
dietary therapy for obesity.
- south beach diet - cabbage soup diet: can it help with weight loss?
a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only.
here's what you need to know about the low-carb diet.
american dietetic association complete food and nutrition guide.
- patient care - request an appointment - log in to patient account - see treatment & diagnosis services - plan your visit - find a doctor - health information - diseases & conditions a-z - symptom checker - drugs & supplements a-z - tests & procedures a-z - healthy living - expert blogs - mayo clinic store - for medical professionals - online services for referring physicians - grand rounds - publications - continuing medical education - mayo medical laboratories - research - explore research areas - find clinical trials - research faculty - postdoctoral fellowships - discoverys edge magazine - search publications - education - mayo graduate school - mayo medical school - mayo school of continuous professional development - mayo school of graduate medical education - mayo school of health sciences - alumni association - request an appointment - find a doctor - find a job - log in to patient account - give to mayo clinic - diseases and conditions - symptoms - drugs and supplements - tests and procedures - healthy lifestyle - first aid - home - healthy lifestyle - weight loss - in-depth - low-carb diet: can it help you lose weight?
comparison of weight-loss diets with different  compositions of fat, protein, and carbohydrates.
accessed  jan. 31, 2011.
centers for disease control and prevention.
dietary guidelines for americans, 2010.
sugars and starches are broken down into simple sugars during digestion.
- we do not share your e-mail address online community.
- the special k diet: helpful for weight loss?
http://www.cnpp.usda.gov/dgas2010-policydocument.htm.
legal conditions and terms of use applicable to all users of this site.
san diego, calif.: academic press; 2002.
- share your experiences with diets that didn't work - when it comes to weight loss, there's no magic bullet - junk food diet for weight loss?
- nelson jk (expert opinion).
- weight loss: choosing a diet that's right for you - dieting?
proponents of the low-carb diet believe that decreasing carbs results in lower insulin levels, which causes the body to burn stored fat for energy and ultimately helps you shed excess weight and reduce risk factors for a variety of health conditions.
- gardner cd, et al.
share this on ... - stumbleupon - digg - del.icio.us - facebook - myspace link to this page to link to this page, copy this html and paste it onto your web page.
american  journal of clinical nutrition.
hoboken, n.j.: john wiley & sons; 2006.
- hcg diet: is it safe and effective?
a daily limit of 50 to 150 grams of carbohydrates is typical with a low-carb diet.
accessed aug. 15, 2011.
new york, n.y.: fireside; 2010.
- alli weight-loss pill: does it work?
could a low-carb diet give you an edge in losing weight?
mayo clinic, rochester, minn. aug. 29, 2011.
help you keep weight off permanently?
a low-carb diet generally excludes or limits most grains, beans, fruits, breads, sweets, pastas and starchy vegetables, and sometimes nuts and seeds.
- the encyclopedia of foods: a guide to healthy nutrition.
any use of this site constitutes your agreement to these terms and conditions of use.
atkins diet: what's behind the claims?
why you might follow a low-carb diet you might choose to follow a low-carb diet because you: - want to change your overall eating habits - enjoy the types and amounts of foods featured in low-carb diets - want a diet that restricts certain carbs to help you lose
in general, a low-carb diet focuses on proteins, including meat, poultry, fish and eggs, and some nonstarchy vegetables.
about our newsletters - housecall - alzheimer's caregiving - living with cancer close window about our e-newsletters - free e-newsletters - mayo clinic expertise - we do not share your e-mail address housecall, our weekly general-interest e-newsletter, keeps you up to date on a wide variety of health topics with timely, reliable, practical information, recipes, blogs, questions and answers with mayo clinic experts and more.
some low-carb diet plans allow certain fruits, vegetables and whole grains.
- try mayo clinic health letter free!
new england journal of  medicine.
join mayo clinic's - free weekly e-newsletter - mayo clinic expertise - recipes, tools and other helpful information
some of this glucose is used by your body for energy, fueling all of your activities, whether it's going for a jog or simply breathing.
- mayo clinic is a not-for-profit organization and proceeds from web advertising help support our mission.
the ultimate diet for shedding weight and feeling great.
healthy recipes: a guide to ingredient substitutions artificial sweeteners: understanding these and other sugar substitutes energy density and weight loss: feel full on fewer calories related links references shai i, et al.
dietary carbohydrates.
hensrud dd (expert opinion).
- westman ec, et al.
high-protein diets: are they safe?
what you get connect with others who've been there.
- see all in diet pills, supplements and surgery free e-newsletters subscribe to receive the latest updates on health topics.
the nurse practitioner.
comparison of weight-loss diets with different compositions of fat, protein, and carbohydrates.
some low-carb diets say that they have health benefits beyond weight loss, such as reducing risk factors associated with heart disease, certain cancers, diabetes and metabolic syndrome.
beware of liquid calories flat belly diet: can it help you lose weight?
http://www.cdc.gov/nutrition/everyone/basics/carbs.html.
popular diets: what practitioners should know.
vegetarian diet: will it help me lose weight?
american journal of clinical nutrition.
"mayo," "mayo clinic," "mayoclinic.com," "embodyhealth," "enhance your life," and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research.
the ultimate diet for  shedding weight and feeling great.
your e-mail clicking "send" signifies that you have read and agree to our privacy policy.
terms and conditions of use policy (updated aug. 2, 2011)
the theory behind the low-carb diet is that insulin prevents fat breakdown in the body by allowing sugar to be used for energy.
weight loss with a low-carbohydrate, mediterranean, or  low-fat diet.
- advertising and sponsorship policy - advertising and sponsorship opportunities - about this site - site help - contact us - e-newsletter - blogs - podcasts - slide shows - videos - site map - reprints and permissions find mayo clinic on privacy policy (updated aug. 2, 2011)
from there, the glucose enters your body's cells with the help of insulin.
comparison of the atkins, zone, ornish, and learn diets  for change in weight and related risk factors among overweight premenopausal  women: the a to z weight loss study: a randomized trial.
© 1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research.
nelson jk (expert opinion).
low-carbohydrate nutrition and metabolism.
when it comes to weight loss, there's no magic bullet junk food diet for weight loss?
- healthy recipes: a guide to ingredient substitutions - see all in diet plans - mayo clinic diet (6) - the mayo clinic diet: a weight-loss program for life - energy density and weight loss: feel full on fewer calories - snacks: how they fit into your weight-loss plan - see all in mayo clinic diet - diet and exercise (9) - exercise for weight loss: calories burned in 1 hour - barriers to fitness: overcoming common challenges - aerobic exercise:
- vegetarian diet: will it help me lose weight?
our biweekly topic-specific e-newsletters also include blogs, questions and answers with mayo clinic experts, and other useful information that will help you manage your health.
http://www.uptodate.com/home/index.html.
purpose a low-carb diet is generally used to lose weight.
print share reprints close window e-mail this page *
check with your doctor or health care provider before starting any weight-loss diet, especially if you have any health conditions, including diabetes.
housecall archives close window mayo clinic housecall stay up to date on the latest health information.
south beach diet cabbage soup diet: can it help with weight loss?
american family physician.
the new atkins for a new you.
"mayo," "mayo clinic,"  "mayoclinic.com," "embodyhealth," "enhance your  life," and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo  foundation for medical education and research.
by mayo clinic staff definition a low-carb diet limits carbohydrates — such as grains, starchy vegetables and fruit — and emphasizes dietary protein and fat.
food manufacturers also add carbohydrates to processed foods in the form of starch or added sugar.
common food sources of naturally occurring carbohydrates include: - fruits - vegetables - milk - nuts - grains - seeds - legumes your body uses carbohydrates as its main fuel source.
next page (1 of 2) references - hand scheduled see also section focus - the cookie diet: can it help you lose weight?
weight loss with a low-carbohydrate, mediterranean, or low-fat diet.
they're then absorbed into your bloodstream, where they're known as blood sugar (glucose).
the nurse  practitioner.
- healthy recipes: a guide to ingredient substitutions - artificial sweeteners: understanding these and other sugar substitutes - energy density and weight loss: feel full on fewer calories related links nu00279 oct. 11, 2011 - shai i, et al.
typical menu for a low-carb diet
© 1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research (mfmer).
nature clinical practice cardiovascular medicine.
we comply with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information:verify here.
top 10 reasons to get physical - see all in diet and exercise view the health heart book - diet pills, supplements and surgery (6) - gastric bypass surgery: who is it for?
carbohydrates are a type of macronutrient found in many foods and beverages.
the cookie diet: can it help you lose weight?
weight loss - basics - in-depth - multimedia - expert answers - expert blog - resources - what's new - weight-loss basics (13) - getting past a weight-loss plateau - counting calories: get back to weight-loss basics - metabolism and weight loss: how you burn calories - see all in weight-loss basics - diet plans (5) - weight loss: choosing a diet that's right for you - low-carb diet: can it help you lose weight?
- coffee calories: sabotaging your weight-loss goal?
guidelines for sites linking to mayoclinic.com advertisement check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from mayo clinic.
mayo clinic, rochester, minn. sept. 17, 2011.
nu00279  oct. 11, 2011 © 1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research  (mfmer).
san diego,  calif.: academic press; 2002.
the special k diet: helpful for weight loss?
comparison of the atkins, zone, ornish, and learn diets for change in weight and related risk factors among overweight premenopausal women: the a to z weight loss study: a randomized trial.
text size: smaller largerlarger
accessed jan. 31, 2011.
hcg diet: is it safe and effective?
beware of liquid calories - flat belly diet: can it help you lose weight?
many types of low-carb diets exist, each with varying restrictions on the types and amounts of carbohydrates you can eat.
diet details as the name says, a low-carb diet restricts the amount of carbohydrates you can eat.
- mayo clinic five steps to controlling high blood pressure - mayo clinic book of home remedies - control fibromyalgia with a three-step action plan the mayo clinic diet — eat well.
u.s. department of health and  human services.
the new england journal of medicine.
print share reprints
- over-the-counter weight-loss pills: do they work?
in contrast, the 2010 dietary guidelines for americans recommends that carbohydrates make up 45 to 65 percent of your total daily calorie intake.
- dietary guidelines for americans, 2010.
required fields * recipient's e-mail address *
weight loss: choosing a diet that's right for you dieting?
astrup a, et al. atkins and other low-carbohydrate diets: hoax or an  effective tool for weight loss?
mayo clinic does not endorse any of the products and services advertised.
a single copy of these materials may be reprinted  for noncommercial personal use only.
coffee calories: sabotaging your weight-loss goal?
extra glucose is stored in your liver, muscles and other cells for later use or is converted to fat.
popular weight-loss diets:
some low-carb diets greatly restrict carbs during the initial phase of the diet and then gradually increase the number of allowed carbs.
most carbohydrates occur naturally in plant-based foods, such as grains.
low-carb diet: can it help you lose weight?
from evidence to practice.
- hensrud dd (expert opinion).
so, if you consume 2,000 calories a day, you would need to eat between 900 and 1,300 calories a day from carbohydrates, or between 225 and 325 grams of carbohydrates a day.
new england journal of medicine.
- high-protein diets: are they safe?
- astrup a, et al. atkins and other low-carbohydrate diets: hoax or an effective tool for weight loss?
- atkins diet: what's behind the claims?