most of us are familiar with corn syrup, generally via pancakes.
to be straightforward, there is a chemical difference, in that the fructose in hfcs is free, whereas in sucrose its bound to glucose.
in making the case against hfcs, we skip over the conflict between fructose metabolism and glycemic index.
this is the opposite of what high-glycemic foods are supposed to do.
that conclusion is based on two lines of reasoning: fructose is more easily converted to fat than glucose (so eating the same amount of calories will make you fatter), and fructose is less satisfying than glucose, hence you will eat more.
but wait a minute: the current trend says  we should fear high glycemic-index foods because they stimulate insulin and  wear out the pancreas.
it seems with respect to obesity and carbohydrates, we go from one extreme to the other, warning about potatoes because of their high glycemic index, and fructose because of its low glycemic index, sending insulin from bad guy to good guy, from the fat-storage hormone to the regulator of a healthy appetite.
that’s about 320 calories of nothing but added sugar, not to mention the  calories from refined starches and fats.
in other words, by the exact mechanism low glycemic foods are supposed to keep us thin, fructose is supposed to make us fat.
some studies  indicate our bodies don’t recognize sugary soft drink calories well enough  to compensate naturally through eating less.
but now, many experts are beginning to question the recent trend of beating up on hfsc.
in 2000, r. m. mcdevitt, ph.d., ( american journal of clinical nutrition) overfed subjects in a metabolically controlled setting with total calories fixed and found no difference in the distribution of excess calories as fat regardless of whether that excess was from glucose, fructose or sucrose.
this is a fancy way of implying that because different sugars follow slightly different metabolic pathways, their respective calories are utilized in a significantly different manner, something that nutritionists have rejected since forever.
by mark anthony, ph.d. | 08/01/2006 obesity is on the rise, and we dont seem to be content with the obvious reasons: we eat more empty calories and we move our bodies a lot less than any generation before ours.
its reputation as a fat promoter has likely been overstated, and it is no more a culprit in the epidemic of obesity than any other refined sugar.
corn syrup is made from corn starch by a series of three enzymatic reactions.
high-fructose corn syrup is 55 percent fructose, 45 percent  glucose, vs. table sugar, which is 50-50 fructose-glucose.
further processing and filtering results in a 55 percent fructose  final product.
and thats where the anti-hfcs camp gets to skate; the high is in comparison to old-fashioned corn syrup, not in comparison to table sugar.
in our personal responsibility-averse culture,  we decided there must be something sinister going on.
the  concern over the explosive increase in our use of hfcs generally ends with a  warning about our excessive consumption of sweetened soft drinks.
fructose  does not, at least not as much.
rss text size: - + obesity is on the rise, and we don’t seem to be content with the  obvious reasons: we eat more empty calories and we move our bodies a lot less  than any generation before ours.
hence the low insulin concentration from ingesting fructose yields a lower average leptin concentration, which would induce us to eat more.
in 2000, r. m. mcdevitt, ph.d., ( american journal of clinical nutrition) overfed subjects in a metabolically  controlled setting with total calories fixed and found no difference in the  distribution of excess calories as fat regardless of whether that excess was  from glucose, fructose or sucrose.
in our personal responsibility-averse culture, we decided there must be something sinister going on.
the second line of reasoning, that fructose is not as satisfying as  glucose, is more interesting.
so we looked really hard and, sure enough, we found it.
the problem isn’t which sweetener we overindulge in, it’s basic  math:
to link to this article, select and copy the html code below and paste it on your own web site.
the problem, according to a 2004 study by s. j. nielsen, ph.d., and b. m.  popkin, ph.d., reported in theamerican journal of clinical nutrition, is  that fructose is digested, absorbed and metabolized differently than glucose  and that difference may lead to obesity.
you may use the headline, deck, byline and url of this article on your web site.
presently, added sweeteners  account for 16 percent of dietary calories for the average american.
once inside our bodies, the story goes, hfsc is  turned into fat more easily than “regular” sugar and the result is  that big collective push over the obesity cliff.
but does fructose  make us fat?
an isomerase converts much of the glucose into fructose – about 42  percent.
image courtesy of  hfcsfacts.com.
but now, many experts are beginning to question the recent trend of beating  up on hfsc.
(fructose also doesnt enter the brain; glucose does.)
glucose stimulates insulin production.
it swiftly became the major  source of fructose in the u.s.
heres a little background.
we offer processing best practices as well as new products, equipment and ingredients for food and beverage processors.
inside the cell, fructose is converted to fructose-1-phosphate, whereas  glucose is converted by glycokinase to glycose-6-phosphate, which means that  it’s a little easier for fructose to become glycerol, the backbone of  triglycerides and phospholipids.
high-fructose corn syrup (hfsc) has found its way into all kinds of foods  formerly sweetened with sugar (sucrose): carbonated beverages, baked goods,  canned fruits, jams, jellies and dairy products.
by contrast, sucrose is 50 percent fructose.
it swiftly became the major source of fructose in the u.s.
nutritionally, refined carbohydrates (sweeteners) should account for no more than 10 percent or so of our daily calories.
but there is as yet no evidence  that it matters what the sweetener is.
nutritionally, refined carbohydrates (sweeteners) should account for no  more than 10 percent or so of our daily calories.
the problem isnt which sweetener we overindulge in, its basic math: four calories per gram is still four calories per gram, at least until proven otherwise.
foodprocessing.com is the go-to information source for the food and beverage industry.
this quick, one-time registration gives you access to members-only site benefits.
and with this big government nod of approval, the battle lines were drawn.
four calories per gram is still four calories per gram, at least until  proven otherwise.
leptin is a hormone that may signal the brain that the body is sufficiently fat, so there is no need to continue eating.
the concern over the explosive increase in our use of hfcs generally ends with a warning about our excessive consumption of sweetened soft drinks.
call it the high-fructose corn syrup plot.
the second line of reasoning, that fructose is not as satisfying as glucose, is more interesting.
once inside our bodies, the story goes, hfsc is turned into fat more easily than regular sugar and the result is that big collective push over the obesity cliff.
but does fructose make us fat?
in this instance, insulin  – the “fat storage hormone” – provides the mechanism that  prevents us from overeating.
nutrition beyond the trends: the devil and high-fructose syrupmark anthony, ph.d., wellness foods, foodprocessing.comhigh-fructose corn syrup is being demonized as the root of all obesity.
manufactures favor hfcs because it’s cheap, sweeter than sugar, more  stable than sugar and can be labeled “all natural.”
to cast your vote, log in or become a member.
when i was  a kid, we bought it because it was cheaper than the natural syrups that were  our favorites: maple, sorghum and honey.
when i was a kid, we bought it because it was cheaper than the natural syrups that were our favorites: maple, sorghum and honey.
the result is a syrup that consists mostly of glucose (which stands to reason because starch is a chain of glucose molecules).
(fructose also doesn’t enter the brain;  glucose does.)
it seems with respect to obesity and carbohydrates, we go from one extreme  to the other, warning about potatoes because of their high glycemic index, and  fructose because of its low glycemic index, sending insulin from bad guy to  good guy, from the fat-storage hormone to the regulator of a healthy appetite.
hence the low  insulin concentration from ingesting fructose yields a lower average leptin  concentration, which would induce us to eat more.
leptin is a hormone that may signal the brain that the body  is sufficiently fat, so there is no need to continue eating.
to be straightforward, there is a chemical  difference, in that the fructose in hfcs is “free,” whereas in  sucrose it’s bound to glucose.
the fda had earlier come to its defense, claiming, “high-fructose corn  syrup is as safe for use in food as sucrose, corn sugar, corn syrup and invert  sugar.”
(fructose has a glycemic index lower than most, if not all, beans, and certainly lower than whole grains.)
this  quick, one-time registration gives you access to members-only site benefits.
the fda had earlier come to its defense, claiming, high-fructose corn syrup is as safe for use in food as sucrose, corn sugar, corn syrup and invert sugar.
some processors are fleeing to other sweeteners in response, but the lines between sense and science are being blurred in the panic.
the problem, according to a 2004 study by s. j. nielsen, ph.d., and b. m. popkin, ph.d., reported in theamerican journal of clinical nutrition, is that fructose is digested, absorbed and metabolized differently than glucose and that difference may lead to obesity.
in this instance, insulin the fat storage hormone provides the mechanism that prevents us from overeating.
and that’s where the anti-hfcs camp gets to skate; the  “high” is in comparison to old-fashioned corn syrup, not in  comparison to table sugar.
some studies indicate our bodies dont recognize sugary soft drink calories well enough to compensate naturally through eating less.
the result is a syrup that consists  mostly of glucose (which stands to reason because starch is a chain of glucose  molecules).
in other words, by the exact mechanism low glycemic foods are supposed to  keep us thin, fructose is supposed to make us fat.
and with this big government nod of approval, the battle lines  were drawn.
corn syrup is made from corn starch by  a series of three enzymatic reactions.
but wait a minute: the current trend says we should fear high glycemic-index foods because they stimulate insulin and wear out the pancreas.
presently, added sweeteners account for 16 percent of dietary calories for the average american.
manufactures favor hfcs because its cheap, sweeter than sugar, more stable than sugar and can be labeled all natural.
inside the cell, fructose is converted to fructose-1-phosphate, whereas glucose is converted by glycokinase to glycose-6-phosphate, which means that its a little easier for fructose to become glycerol, the backbone of triglycerides and phospholipids.
high-fructose corn syrup (hfsc) has found its way into all kinds of foods formerly sweetened with sugar (sucrose): carbonated beverages, baked goods, canned fruits, jams, jellies and dairy products.
that conclusion is based on two lines of reasoning: fructose is more easily  converted to fat than glucose (so eating the same amount of calories will make  you fatter), and fructose is less satisfying than glucose, hence you will eat  more.
its reputation as a fat promoter has likely been overstated, and it  is no more a culprit in the epidemic of obesity than any other refined sugar.
thats about 320 calories of nothing but added sugar, not to mention the calories from refined starches and fats.
insulin can reduce our desire to eat, either directly by its  effect in the brain, or indirectly by increasing leptin release by fat cells in  a delayed response.
but there is as yet no evidence that it matters what the sweetener is.
high-fructose corn syrup is made from the  same corn starch, but by a slightly different enzymatic process developed in  1970.
this is a fancy way of implying that because  different sugars follow slightly different metabolic pathways, their respective  calories are utilized in a significantly different manner, something that  nutritionists have rejected since…forever.
call it the “high-fructose corn syrup  plot.”
(fructose has a glycemic index lower than most, if not all, beans, and  certainly lower than whole grains.)
insulin can reduce our desire to eat, either directly by its effect in the brain, or indirectly by increasing leptin release by fat cells in a delayed response.
so we looked really hard  and, sure enough, we found it.
in making the case against hfcs, we skip over the  conflict between fructose metabolism and glycemic index.
fructose does not, at least not as much.