one in health promotion and education and a second in nursing.
light and dark brown, powdered, and granulated white sugars are all highly refined, while others, like those listed below, are made with fewer steps on the processing chain.
- rapadura is the portuguese name for unrefined dried sugarcane juice.
cooking notes: to replace 1  cup sugar in baked goods, use about 3/4 cup of honey and lower the oven  temperature 25 degrees fahrenheit and reduce liquids by about 2  tablespoons for each cup of honey.
sweetener serving size calories carbs other nutrients of note white (table) sugar 2 tsp 33 8 g
agave nectar is produced from the juice of the core of the agave, a  succulent plant native to mexico.
but are they really any better?
cooking notes: replaces sugar 1:1.
agave nectar syrup is available in the baking aisle at most natural foods stores.
still less refined than table sugar, it also contains sometrace nutrients (that regular sugar does not), including vitamin b2.
because the only thing that has been removed from the original sugarcane juice is the water, rapadura contains all of the vitamins and minerals that are normally found in sugarcane juice, namely iron.
cooking notes:replaces sugar 1:1.
- maple syrup comes from the sap of maple trees, which is collected, filtered, and boiled down to an extremely sweet syrup with a distinctive flavor.
you can find it in bulk in some natural foods  stores, but don’t be fooled by fake maple syrups, which are cheaper and  more readily available at the grocery store.
cooking notes: to replace one cup of sugar, use 1-1/3 cups brown rice syrup, and for each cup of rice syrup added, reduce liquid by 1/4 cup and add 1/4 teaspoon baking soda.
if this product is boiled again, the result is called second molasses.
can be used in a wide  variety of foods and recipes without adversely affecting color or flavor.
it is made by mechanically extracting sugarcane juice, which is then heated and cooled until tiny brown (thanks to the molasses content) crystals form.
true maple syrup contains nothing but “maple syrup.”
turbinado sugar is often confused with sucanat, but the two are  different.
this article  provides a rundown of the most common types of “natural” sweeteners  you’ll find on the market to help you decide.
brown rice syrup is made when cooked rice is cultured with enzymes,  which break down the starch in the rice.
none* evaporated cane juice 2  tsp 30 8 g riboflavin (3% dv), potassium (1% dv), manganese (1% dv), copper (1%  dv), iron (1% dv) agave nectar syrup 2 tsp 40 8 g none* brown rice syrup 2 tsp 40 10 g
none* maple syrup 2 tsp 45 9 g manganese (22% dv), zinc (4% dv) *less than 0.5% dv of any vitamins or minerals sparkpeople's licensed and registered dietitian, becky hand, notes that published recommendations say to limit added sugars from all sources tono more than 10%-15% of total calorie intake, which is 120 calories (7.5 tsp) of sugar for a 1,200-calorie diet.
it contains less sucrose than table sugar (88 percent and 99 percent, respectively).cooking notes: sucanat replaces sugar 1:1 and is also an accepted substitute for traditional brown sugar.
- honey, made by bees from the nectar of flowers, is a ready-made sweetener that contains traces of nutrients.
wonder where ..." - naturallyyours - "but really, there has to be some value to using something as close as possi..." 6 ways to beat insomnia sleep is a cornerstone to living healthy.
vegans often use  agave as a honey substitute, although it’s even sweeter and a little  thinner than honey.
- friend feed - sparkamerica - - - home - nutrition - fitness - motivation - wellness - sparkdiet - lifestyle centers - videos - recipes sparkpeople advertisers help keep the site free!learn more nutrition articles | nutrient buzz the truth about "natural" sweeteners does sugar by any other name still taste as sweet? --
non-sugarcane sweeteners - blackstrap molasses, unlike other sugarcane sweeteners, contains significant amounts of vitamins and minerals.
turbinado is lighter in color and contains less molasses than both rapadura and sucanat.
(article) - breaking your sugar addiction (article) - quiz: is it sugar or something else?
- the truth about high fructose corn syrup (article) - all about artificial sweeteners (article) - the science behind stevia (article) - video:
after the sugarcane is pressed to extract the juice, the juice is  then boiled, cooled, and allowed to crystallize into granules (like sucanat,  above).
the fructose content of agave syrup is much higher than that of high fructose corn syrup, which is of concern since some research has linked high fructose intake to weight gain (especially around the abdominal area), high triglycerides, heart disease and insulin resistance.
the resulting liquid is cooked down to  a thick syrup, which is about half as sweet as white sugar and has a mild  butterscotch flavor.
but in moderation, there’s nothing wrong with the sweetness that a little  sugar adds to life.
a popular brand-name of turbinado sugar is sugar in the raw, which can be found in most natural food stores, and even in single-serve packets at coffee shops.
(link) - quiz: are your sugar cravings out of control?
still less refined than table sugar, it also  contains sometrace nutrients (that regular sugar does not), including  vitamin b2.
none* maple syrup 2 tsp 45 9 g manganese (22% dv), zinc (4% dv) *less than 0.5% dv of any vitamins or minerals sparkpeople's licensed and registered dietitian, becky hand, notes that  published recommendations say to limit added sugars from all sources tono more  than 10%-15% of total calorie intake, which is 120 calories (7.5 tsp) of sugar  for a 1,200-calorie diet.
high fructose corn  syrup contains 55% fructose while agave nectar syrup contains 90%.
read more - un-realistic goals, how to overcome them?
you may want to combine it with another sweetener for cakes and sweet breads.
imitation syrups are primarily made of high fructose corn syrup, sugar, and/or artificial sweeteners, and contain 3 percent maple syrup (or less).cooking notes: to replace 1 cup sugar in baking, use about 3/4 cup of maple syrup and lower the oven temperature 25 degrees fahrenheit.
because the only thing  that has been removed from the original sugarcane juice is the water, rapadura  contains all of the vitamins and minerals that are normally found in sugarcane  juice, namely iron.
too much sugar—whether it’s marketed as “natural” or not—can harm your health.
the resulting liquid is cooked down to a thick syrup, which is about half as sweet as white sugar and has a mild butterscotch flavor.
member comments about this article see all 44 | leave comment - healwithtonya - "very informative.
blackstrap molasses is made from the third boiling of the sugar syrup and is the most nutritious molasses, containing substantial amounts of calcium, magnesium, potassium, and iron.
it contains fewer calories and a higher concentration of minerals (like  manganese and zinc) than honey.
the combination of rosemary and maple, with a hint of spice from the black pepper, is delightful.
none* blackstrap molasses 2 tsp 32 8 g manganese (18% dv), copper (14% dv), iron (13% dv), calcium (12% dv), potassium (10% dv), magnesium (7%dv), vitamin b6 (5% dv), selenium (4% dv) rapadura 2 tsp 30 8 g
- ideas for inexpensive rewards?
even sweeteners  touted as natural or nutritious, like the ones discussed here, don’t  typically add asignificant source of vitamins or minerals to your diet.
to easily tell the difference, read the  ingredients list on the nutrition label.
sugarcane sweeteners sugarcane is a tropical grass that has been cultivated by humans for thousands of years.
high fructose corn syrup contains 55% fructose while agave nectar syrup contains 90%.
sucanat stands for sugar-cane-natural, and is  very similar to rapadura.
making what we know as table sugar from  sugarcane can range from a relatively simple to a multistep process, and the  final result varies depending on the specific steps in the process.
in europe, it’s known as “unrefined sugar.”
when buying, consider choosing organic blackstrap molasses, as pesticides are more likely to be concentrated due to the production of molasses.
none* sucanat 2 tsp 30 8 g
it also makes a good sweetener in cold liquids, such  as iced tea.
pin it email print related content related poll
turbinado is lighter  in color and contains less molasses than both rapadura and sucanat.
maple syrup comes from the sap of maple trees, which is collected,  filtered, and boiled down to an extremely sweet syrup with a distinctive  flavor.
"maple-flavored syrups"  are imitations of real maple syrup.
none* evaporated cane juice 2 tsp 30 8 g riboflavin (3% dv), potassium (1% dv), manganese (1% dv), copper (1% dv), iron (1% dv) agave nectar syrup 2 tsp 40 8 g none* brown rice syrup 2 tsp 40 10 g
"maple-flavored syrups" are imitations of real maple syrup.
this article has been reviewed and approved by licensed and registered dietitian, becky hand, and tanya jolliffe, a sparkpeople healthy eating expert.
is it worth the extra expense and hassle of deviating from the mainstream to try “natural” sweeteners?
terms and conditions and privacy policy update on february 8, 2012
- sucanat stands for sugar-cane-natural, and is very similar to rapadura.
what's your go-to sweetener for foods and drinks?
it contains trace amounts of iron, calcium, potassium and magnesium.
single leg standing balance with isometric leg lift rosemary-maple savory oats submitted by: sp_stepf i've been eating savory eats for years, but i recently discovered that with the smooth, porridgelike texture of irish oats, i prefer some sweetness to balance the savory.
you may want to combine it with another  sweetener for cakes and sweet breads.
if you enjoyed this article,  help us spread the spark by clicking the "like" button you will earn 3 sparkpoints page 1 of 1 |   return to main nutrition page » tweet
turbinado is a great substitute for brown  sugar, too.
- evaporated cane juice is essentially a finer, lighter-colored version of turbinado sugar.
it contains trace amounts of iron, calcium, potassium and  magnesium.
this article has been reviewed and  approved by licensed and registered dietitian, becky hand, and tanya jolliffe,  a sparkpeople healthy eating expert.
home | my tools | resources | community | blogs | healthy recipes | about us | announcements | store | help desk diet | weight loss motivation | diabetes diet | emotional eating | thyroid diet |
- calories burned: 22,746,441,202 - pounds lost: 18,738,129 - cups water drank: 404,280,004 - sparkamerica minutes: 2,449,630,844 join now for free!
- brown rice syrup is made when cooked rice is cultured with enzymes, which break down the starch in the rice.
the fructose content of agave syrup is much higher than that of high fructose corn syrup, which is of concern since some research has linked  high fructose intake to weight gain (especially around the abdominal area),  high triglycerides, heart disease and insulin resistance.
the bottom line is that sugar is  sugar.
making what we know as table sugar from sugarcane can range from a relatively simple to a multistep process, and the final result varies depending on the specific steps in the process.
light and  dark brown, powdered, and granulated white sugars are all highly refined, while  others, like those listed below, are made with fewer steps on the processing  chain.
by liza barnes & nicole nichols, health educators tweet print sparkpeople  advertisers help keep the site free!learn more
here’s a chart of how these sweeteners compare with one  another and with regular table sugar: sweetener serving size calories carbs other nutrients of note white  (table) sugar 2 tsp 33 8 g none* blackstrap molasses 2 tsp 32 8  g manganese (18% dv), copper (14% dv), iron (13% dv), calcium (12% dv),  potassium (10% dv), magnesium (7%dv), vitamin b6 (5% dv), selenium (4% dv) rapadura 2 tsp 30 8 g
it’s worth noting that the name “brown rice syrup” describes the color of the syrup, not the rice it’s made from, which is white.
- - start - my nutrition - my fitness - other goals - sparkstreaks - reports - planner - sparkmail - my sparkpoints - web search - - healthy lifestyle home - nutrition - fitness - motivation - wellness - sparkdiet - lifestyle centers - maintaining your new weight - men's health - backyard gardening - college living - financial fitness - green living - healthy kids & families - natural beauty - senior health - women's health - brides-to-be - videos - sparkrecipes.com - dailyspark.com - - health conditions home - health a-z - condition centers - depression - diabetes (spark*d program) - gerd (heartburn) - healthy heart - healthy skin - high blood pressure - high cholesterol - insomnia - irritable bowel syndrome (ibs) - menopause - osteoarthritis - seasonal allergies - health news - - community home - message boards - sparkteams - challenge central - sparkpages - blogs - success stories - secrets of success - sparkpeople live!
here’s a rundown of some of the most common ones that  are not made from sugarcane.
it also means that more of the vitamins and minerals that naturally occur in sugarcane remain in the end product.
whatever's available--i'm not picky!
if snoozing isn't an easy task for you, here are a few tips, without the sheep.
but in moderation, there’s nothing wrong with the sweetness that a little sugar adds to life.
can be used in a wide variety of foods and recipes without adversely affecting color or flavor.
if you’ve wandered into a natural food store lately, you might have noticed that the selection of sweeteners seems to have multiplied.
after the sugarcane is pressed to extract the juice, the juice is then boiled, cooled, and allowed to crystallize into granules (like sucanat, above).
by liza barnes & nicole nichols, health educators tweet
use it as you  would rapadura (see above).
next, these granules are refined to a light tan color by washing them  in a centrifuge to remove impurities and surface molasses.
it also makes a good sweetener in cold liquids, such as iced tea.
fewer steps benefit the environment, because less processing means less environmental impact.
agave nectar syrup is available in the baking aisle at most natural  foods stores.
it contains less sucrose than table sugar (88 percent  and 99 percent, respectively).cooking notes: sucanat replaces sugar 1:1  and is also an accepted substitute for traditional brown sugar.
whether you choose  natural,artificial or conventional sweeteners is up to you.
next, these granules are refined to a light tan color by washing them in a centrifuge to remove impurities and surface molasses.
even sweeteners touted as natural or nutritious, like the ones discussed here, don’t typically add asignificant source of vitamins or minerals to your diet.
vegetarian diet | running beginner | college student health | senior citizen health | childhood obesity popular calorie searches: chalet garlic vegetables calories | frozen mixed veg | calories in buitoni alfredo | post honeycomb cereal calories | tyson breaded chicken | calories in orowheat thin | kelloggs special k protein plus cereal calories | potatoes obrien | calories in land o frost ham | white fish food versus food:
whether you choose natural,artificial or conventional sweeteners is up to you.
subway 6 inch oven roasted chicken breast versus sonic breakfast toaster, sausage, egg & cheese subway 6 inch oven roasted chicken breast versus arby's crispy chicken cordon bleu sandwich subway 6 inch oven roasted chicken breast versus arby's large roast beef sandwich copyright sparkpeople, inc. 2012, all rights reserved |terms and conditions | privacy policy | about our ads free diet | calorie counter |
“first” molasses is left over when sugarcane juice is boiled, cooled, and removed of its crystals.
here’s a rundown of some of the most common ones that are not made from sugarcane.
one respondent mentioned "date syrup".
(link) - tame your sweet tooth challenge (link) regular sugar low- or zero-calorie sugar substitutes "natural" sweeteners like honey
probably the least refined of all sugarcane products, rapadura is made  simply by cooking juice that has been pressed from sugarcane until it is very  concentrated, and then drying and granulating it or, traditionally, pouring it  into a mold to dry in brick form, which is then shaved.
see all of liza's articles.
imitation syrups are primarily made of high fructose  corn syrup, sugar, and/or artificial sweeteners, and contain 3 percent maple  syrup (or less).cooking notes: to replace 1 cup sugar in baking, use  about 3/4 cup of maple syrup and lower the oven temperature 25 degrees  fahrenheit.
cooking notes:to replace 1 cup of sugar, use 2/3 cup of agave nectar, reduce the quantity of liquids slightly, and reduce the oven temperature by 25 degrees fahrenheit.
far from a whole food, agave juice is extracted, filtered, heated and hydrolyzed into agave syrup.
a german company called rapunzel is the main company that markets pure, organic rapadura in the u.s.cooking notes: rapadura replaces sugar 1:1 and adds a molasses flavor and dark color, so it’s great in baked goods like brownies, coffee and black tea, but it may not be desirable in something like lemonade.
when buying, consider choosing organic  blackstrap molasses, as pesticides are more likely to be concentrated due to  the production of molasses.
true maple syrup contains nothing but  “maple syrup.”
is it worth the extra expense and hassle of deviating  from the mainstream to try “natural” sweeteners?
sparkpeople advertisers help keep the site  free!learn more nutrition articles     |    nutrient buzz the truth about "natural" sweeteners does sugar by any other name still taste as sweet? --
to easily tell the difference, read the ingredients list on the nutrition label.
the bottom line is that sugar is sugar.
blackstrap molasses is made from the third boiling of the sugar  syrup and is the most nutritious molasses, containing substantial amounts of  calcium, magnesium, potassium, and iron.
probably the least refined of all sugarcane products, rapadura is made simply by cooking juice that has been pressed from sugarcane until it is very concentrated, and then drying and granulating it or, traditionally, pouring it into a mold to dry in brick form, which is then shaved.
if you’ve  wandered into a natural food store lately, you might have noticed that the  selection of sweeteners seems to have multiplied.
a registered nurse and mother, regular exercise and cooking are top priorities for her.
brown  rice syrup has the tendency to make food harder and crispier, so it’s  great in crisps, granolas, and cookies.
submit my vote › about the author liza barnes liza has two bachelor's degrees:
so if you’re going to eat it, eat the good stuff...just not too much of it.
vegans often use agave as a honey substitute, although it’s even sweeter and a little thinner than honey.
natural sweeteners are flooding the market these days.
this article provides a rundown of the most common types of “natural” sweeteners you’ll find on the market to help you decide.
if you enjoyed this article, help us spread the spark by clicking the "like" button you will earn 3 sparkpoints page 1 of 1 | return to main nutrition page »
you can find it in bulk in some natural foods stores, but don’t be fooled by fake maple syrups, which are cheaper and more readily available at the grocery store.
a popular  brand-name of turbinado sugar is sugar in the raw, which can be found in most  natural food stores, and even in single-serve packets at coffee shops.
cooking notes:to replace 1 cup of sugar, use 2/3 cup of agave nectar,  reduce the quantity of liquids slightly, and reduce the oven temperature by 25  degrees fahrenheit.
powders, syrups, and liquids with exotic-sounding names catch your eye, each claiming to be tastier, healthier, or more environmentally-friendly than plain old table sugar.
it’s worth noting that  the name “brown rice syrup” describes the color of the syrup, not  the rice it’s made from, which is white.
turbinado is a great substitute for brown sugar, too.
non-sugarcane sweeteners natural sweeteners are flooding the  market these days.
it is made by mechanically extracting sugarcane  juice, which is then heated and cooled until tiny brown (thanks to the molasses  content) crystals form.
too much sugar—whether it’s marketed as  “natural” or not—can harm your health.
- what is your favorite under 200 calorie snack?
all of these sugarcane  sweeteners can be found in the baking aisle and/or bulk bins of natural foods  stores.
how much sugar are you really eating?
a german company called rapunzel is the main company that  markets pure, organic rapadura in the u.s.cooking notes: rapadura  replaces sugar 1:1 and adds a molasses flavor and dark color, so it’s  great in baked goods like brownies, coffee and black tea, but it may not be  desirable in something like lemonade.
for each cup of maple syrup, reduce liquids by about 2 tablespoons.
“first” molasses is  left over when sugarcane juice is boiled, cooled, and removed of its crystals.
cooking notes: to replace  one cup of sugar, use 1-1/3 cups brown rice syrup, and for each cup of rice  syrup added, reduce liquid by 1/4 cup and add 1/4 teaspoon baking soda.
all of these sugarcane sweeteners can be found in the baking aisle and/or bulk bins of natural foods stores.
cooking notes: blackstrap molasses has a very  strong flavor, so it is best to just replace a small portion of sugar with  molasses.
sugarcane  sweeteners sugarcane is a tropical grass that has been cultivated by  humans for thousands of years.
none* honey 2 tsp 43 11 g
fewer steps benefit the environment, because less processing means less  environmental impact.
it contains fewer calories and a higher concentration of minerals (like manganese and zinc) than honey.
print sparkpeople advertisers help keep the site free!learn more
it is composed of about 50% complex carbohydrates, which break down more slowly in the bloodstream than simple carbohydrates, resulting in a less dramatic spike in blood glucose levels.
it is composed of about 50% complex carbohydrates, which  break down more slowly in the bloodstream than simple carbohydrates, resulting  in a less dramatic spike in blood glucose levels.
brown rice syrup has the tendency to make food harder and crispier, so it’s great in crisps, granolas, and cookies.
so if you’re going to eat it, eat the good  stuff...just not too much of it.
- eating out: chain restaurants or local businesses - little luxuries that help you in your diet?
sparkpeople is a registered trademark of sparkpeople, inc. in the united states, european union, canada, and australia.
- turbinado sugar is often confused with sucanat, but the two are different.
despite this, it has a lowglycemic index because of its low glucose content.
use it as you would rapadura (see above).
thank you for sharing as i learned quite a bit from this ..." - carolj35 - "interesting article!
pregnancy |weight loss forum archives | the spark book sparkpeople, sparkpages, sparkpoints, sparkteams, sparkdiet, sparkamerica, sparkrecipes, dailyspark, and other marks are trademarks of sparkpeople, inc.
full recipe search over 200k healthy recipes: get a personalized diet and fitness plan, great newsletters, post to our message boards, and even your own personal sparkpage!
honey, made by bees from the nectar of flowers, is a ready-made  sweetener that contains traces of nutrients.
cooking notes: blackstrap molasses has a very strong flavor, so it is best to just replace a small portion of sugar with molasses.
it also means that more of the vitamins and minerals that  naturally occur in sugarcane remain in the end product.
here’s a chart of how these sweeteners compare with one another and with regular table sugar: - agave nectar is produced from the juice of the core of the agave, a succulent plant native to mexico.
powders, syrups, and liquids  with exotic-sounding names catch your eye, each claiming to be tastier,  healthier, or more environmentally-friendly than plain old table sugar.
despite  this, it has a lowglycemic index because of its low glucose content.
far from a whole food, agave juice is  extracted, filtered, heated and hydrolyzed into agave syrup.
evaporated cane juice is essentially a finer, lighter-colored  version of turbinado sugar.
but are  they really any better?
rapadura is the portuguese name for unrefined dried sugarcane  juice.
none* turbinado sugar 2 tsp 30 8 g
blackstrap molasses, unlike other sugarcane sweeteners, contains  significant amounts of vitamins and minerals.
cooking notes: to replace 1 cup sugar in baked goods, use about 3/4 cup of honey and lower the oven temperature 25 degrees fahrenheit and reduce liquids by about 2 tablespoons for each cup of honey.