“i figure if my one vice is the least harmful of all the sweeteners, then i feel okay about it,” said pinckert.
“probably the best thing is to avoid them  both.”
but the risk of illness to humans who consume small amounts of aspartame  appears to be minimal.
“it’s not a death sentence if you drink diet coke with  aspartame,” said jacobson.
common artificial sweeteners have very little name recognition, the poll  found, so parents are unaware of what they’re giving their children.
but don’t dismiss the little white packet, encourages the sugar  association.
“with saccharine, there are question marks about it.
there has been a “cloud of doubt” over aspartame, marketed as  equal and nutrasweet in a blue packet, since it was approved by the fda thirty  years ago and a small percentage of people report side effects such as  headaches and dizziness as a result of consuming products with aspartame,  according to jacobson.
these artificial sweeteners are not magical,” said jacobson.
their research showed that  aspartame caused cancer – lymphoma and leukemia -- in laboratory rats.
“if you insist on having ‘diet’ this or ‘diet’ that, splenda or sucralose is probably the safest.
posted wednesday, feb 24, 2010 - 10:14 am est tweet
these artificial  sweeteners are not magical,” said jacobson.
that’s welcome news to pinckert, who said she eats fewer sweet foods throughout the day thanks to her splenda-saturated coffee.
“probably the best thing is to avoid them both.”
the closest jacobson came to calling an artificial sweetener unsafe was  when he warned against acesulfame k, a sweetening agent found in soda and  chewing gum.
there's no  epidemic of new cancers, so the risk is very low if these really do cause  cancer.”
“it’s not a death sentence if you drink diet coke with aspartame,” said jacobson.
“sales of sugar have been steady.
“i think a lot of people think, ‘oh, i'll drink this diet soda and the pounds will melt off.’
follow nbcwashington
pinckert’s plunge into artificial sweetness started a few years ago.
“there's been no obvious increase in  cancer rates since artificial sweeteners became widely consumed.
pinckert is an admitted addict of the artificial sweetener.
just because a product claims to be from a natural source does not  prove that it is safe, according to thecspi.
there have been many studiesshowing that it causes cancer in animals and a couple of studies showing it causes cancer in people, and then there are many other studies showing that it doesn't cause cancer,” said jacobson.
“still, i think drinking a diet soda is better than the ten to twenty  teaspoons of sugar you're going to get in a real soda, plus all those  calories,” said jacobson.
“there's been no obvious increase in cancer rates since artificial sweeteners became widely consumed.
“i’ve done the math.
only five  percent of parents polled identified it correctly.
common artificial sweeteners have very little name recognition, the poll found, so parents are unaware of what they’re giving their children.
more significant were the first-ever independent studies of aspartame,  conducted by italian scientists, jacobson said.
for  example, according to poll results, acesulfame k, the sweetener that the cspi  thinks should be off the market, is virtually unknown to parents.
it has not caused cancer or significant other problem in the animal studies that have been conducted.
their popularity is fueled by america’s obsession with weight  loss.
it’s twenty packets a day,” said pinckert.
“i think a lot of people think, ‘oh, i'll drink this diet soda  and the pounds will melt off.’
“i try to stay  away from sugar between the crash and the calories.”
today there are twenty-five artificial and man-made sweeteners on the  market.
photos and videos truth about artificial sweeteners “i don’t like sugar,” said pinckert.
artificials are not eating into the market too much,” saidphillip hayes of the sugar association.
their research showed that aspartame caused cancer – lymphoma and leukemia -- in laboratory rats.
artificial sweeteners more photos and videos
jacobson said seltzer water, milk, or just plain water are safer and healthier options for drinks.
artificially-sweetened and no-calorie sodas may indeed help consumers lose weight -- if they count calories and burn them through exercise, according to michael jacobson, executive director of the center for science in the public interest(cspi).
only five percent of parents polled identified it correctly.
as for concerns about calories, hayes explains that a true teaspoon of sugar – not a heaping one -- has just fifteen calories that are easily burned off in sixteen minutes of sleep.
artificially-sweetened and no-calorie sodas may indeed help consumers lose  weight -- if they count calories and burn them through exercise, according to michael jacobson, executive director of the center for science in the public  interest(cspi).
the sugar association has petitioned the food and drug administration to  follow canada’s lead and clear up consumer confusion with  front-of-package labeling for artificial sweeteners.
“twenty years ago we urged the fda not to approve it and the agency dismissed our concerns.”
and some of them may actually be harmful, depending on the medical study  you believe.
artificials are not eating into the  market too much,” saidphillip hayes of the sugar association.
there's no epidemic of new cancers, so the risk is very low if these really do cause cancer.”
there has been a “cloud of doubt” over aspartame, marketed as equal and nutrasweet in a blue packet, since it was approved by the fda thirty years ago and a small percentage of people report side effects such as headaches and dizziness as a result of consuming products with aspartame, according to jacobson.
but the risk of illness to humans who consume small amounts of aspartame appears to be minimal.
“i’m very dubious of it,” said jacobson.
hayes pointed to a recent harris poll on artificial sweeteners which showed three in five americans believe they are somewhat or not at all safe.
their popularity is fueled by america’s obsession with weight loss.
jacobson said seltzer water, milk, or just plain water are safer and  healthier options for drinks.
for example, according to poll results, acesulfame k, the sweetener that the cspi thinks should be off the market, is virtually unknown to parents.
hayes pointed to a recent harris poll on artificial sweeteners which showed  three in five americans believe they are somewhat or not at all safe.
an incurable sweet-tooth, pinckert wanted to trade out real sugar, especially because her taste buds demanded so much of it.
getty images advertisementadvertisement every morning in the rockville office of on the marc media, public relations specialistmadeline pinckert hears the same joke from her colleagues.
truvia and purevia, brand names of a sweet substance derived from the stevia plant, are too new on the market and inadequately studied, said jacobson.
after her morning fix, she’ll eat a sucralose-sweetened yogurt or two.
too bad it is often mixed with acesulfame k which has real serious question marks, and shouldn’t be on market,” said jacobson.
the sugar association has petitioned the food and drug administration to follow canada’s lead and clear up consumer confusion with front-of-package labeling for artificial sweeteners.
jacobson’s pick of all the packets?
“twenty  years ago we urged the fda not to approve it and the agency dismissed our  concerns.”
it has  not caused cancer or significant other problem in the animal studies that have  been conducted.
today there are twenty-five artificial and man-made sweeteners on the market.
“i don’t like sugar,” said pinckert.
and some of them may actually be harmful, depending on the medical study you believe.
saccharine -- better known as sweet'n low in the pink packet -- is  well-studied, but results are mixed.
too bad it is often mixed with acesulfame k which has real  serious question marks, and shouldn’t be on market,” said jacobson.
“still, i think drinking a diet soda is better than the ten to twenty teaspoons of sugar you're going to get in a real soda, plus all those calories,” said jacobson.
“if you insist on having ‘diet’ this or  ‘diet’ that, splenda or sucralose is probably the safest.
more significant were the first-ever independent studies of aspartame, conducted by italian scientists, jacobson said.
truvia and purevia, brand names of a sweet substance derived from the  stevia plant, are too new on the market and inadequately studied, said  jacobson.
as for concerns about calories, hayes explains that a true teaspoon of  sugar – not a heaping one -- has just fifteen calories that are easily  burned off in sixteen minutes of sleep.
but don’t dismiss the little white packet, encourages the sugar association.
saccharine -- better known as sweet'n low in the pink packet -- is well-studied, but results are mixed.
losing weight is so hard.
she typically tears open six yellow packets at a time for each cup of coffee.
just because a product claims to be from a natural source does not prove that it is safe, according to thecspi.
“i figure if my one vice is the least harmful of all the sweeteners,  then i feel okay about it,” said pinckert.
“i try to stay away from sugar between the crash and the calories.”
there have been  many studiesshowing that it causes cancer in animals and a couple of studies  showing it causes cancer in people, and then there are many other studies  showing that it doesn't cause cancer,” said jacobson.
the closest jacobson came to calling an artificial sweetener unsafe was when he warned against acesulfame k, a sweetening agent found in soda and chewing gum.
“you want some coffee with your splenda?”
that’s welcome news to pinckert, who said she eats fewer sweet foods  throughout the day thanks to her splenda-saturated coffee.