now for those of you who are cutting calories and want to avoid natural sugars altogether, you may have considered using artificial sweeteners.
so be  careful when consuming large amounts of honey.
my personal favorite is any sugar that comes from the stevia plant.
"now in order to help you choose which sugar is best for you, i've  separated our sweeteners into two categories," explains basheerah.
most of us think honey comes from bees, it doesn't get any more natural than that.
and also, honey has more calories per serving than any form of sugar.
so are they really the better choice?
" so how can we get our sweet fix and stay as healthy as possible?
high consumption of sugar in the body can relate to heart disease, obesity and diabetes.
then we have our raw sugar or brown sugar, a little bit chemically refined,  but it has a little bit more nutritional content.
for more information on this  site, please read ourprivacy policy and terms of service.
most of us think honey comes from bees, it doesn't  get any more natural than that.
so be careful when consuming large amounts of honey.
high consumption of  sugar in the body can relate to heart disease, obesity and diabetes.
not  only does it have zero calories, but it's also completely natural."
"in fact, over the last 20 years in the u.s., we have increased our consumption of sugar from 26 pounds to 135 pounds per person per year.
but for those of us with a sweet tooth, that can be tough.
all content © copyright 2000 - 2012  worldnow and america now.
"now in order to help you choose which sugar is best for you, i've separated our sweeteners into two categories," explains basheerah.
"in  fact, over the last 20 years in the u.s., we have increased our consumption of  sugar from 26 pounds to 135 pounds per person per year.
but you have to remember artificial sweeteners are loaded with chemicals, some with names i can't even pronounce.
however, fitness expert basheerah ahmad says you don't necessarily have to give up sugar completely.
then we have our raw sugar or brown sugar, a little bit chemically refined, but it has a little bit more nutritional content.
now we have our honey.
"it's no secret that americans love sugar," she says.
so, with our natural sugars, we have table sugar or white sugar, very  chemically refined and void of nutrients.
so the next time you need to get your sugar fix, reach for something that's  low in calories, but also natural and won't hurt your body.
sugars vs. sweeteners more about basheerah the cornerstone of any good weight-loss program, of course, is watching  what we eat.
so the next time you need to get your sugar fix, reach for something that's low in calories, but also natural and won't hurt your body.
however, fitness expert basheerah ahmad says you don't necessarily have to give  up sugar completely.
now for those of you who are cutting calories and want to avoid natural  sugars altogether, you may have considered using artificial sweeteners.
the cornerstone of any good weight-loss program, of course, is watching what we eat.
not only does it have zero calories, but it's also completely natural."
but you  have to remember artificial sweeteners are loaded with chemicals, some with  names i can't even pronounce.
"the first are natural sugars, and the second are artificial sweeteners.
in fact, the body has to borrow from  healthy cells in order to metabolize it.
in fact, the body has to borrow from healthy cells in order to metabolize it.
but what we forget is, it's extremely refined.
so, with our natural sugars, we have table sugar or white sugar, very chemically refined and void of nutrients.