pigs are also known to host large concentrations of parasitic ascarid worms in their digestive tract.
subscribe by email search for: watch videos at vodpod and other videos from this collection.
i love to cook and pretty much anything that isn’t homemade is either tasteless crap or too sweet.
we admitted a young autistic boy and discovered quickly we were unprepared for his behavior – throwing toys at and hitting the other children.
there are more questions than answers.
even without the possibility of mercury contamination, i avoid it like the plague and have for years.
for its report “not so sweet: missing mercury and high fructose corn syrup,” iatp sent 55 brand-name foods and beverages containing hfcs as the first or second ingredient to a commercial laboratory to be tested for total mercury.
for decades, hfcs has been made using mercury-grade caustic soda produced in industrial chlorine (chlor-alkali)
calories per day from 1961 2003 sugar & sweeteners 515.75 657.03 vegetable oils 267.5 606.46 cereal grains 627.32 832.39 high fructose corn syrup may be getting a pass these days in the press.
another reason not to eat pork is that factory hog farms are some of the worst polluters in america’s history.
plus, if they worked, why are so many americans fat?
fructose does not stimulate leptin, the hormone that tell you “i’m full”.
i’d rather eat my own cooking.
health authorities recommend that consumption of trans fat be reduced to trace amounts.
“the good news is that mercury-free hfcs ingredients exist.
so where are the extra 871.24 calories coming from?
religious groups that consider pork unclean refer to these issues as support for their views.
while most chlorine plants around the world have switched to newer, cleaner technologies, many still rely on the use of mercury cells.
“the bad news is that nobody knows whether or not their soda or snack food contains hfcs made from ingredients like caustic soda contaminated with mercury,” said dr. wallinga.
steer clear of breakfast links, hot dogs, salisbury steaks, bologna, sausages, salami, and lunch meats of all kinds.
- white flour – white flour is white because the wheat has been stripped of the wheat germ, bran, and half of the healthy fatty acids and then bleached.
i’d rather drink water.
comments (7) high fructose corn syrup and mercury january 26, 2009 filed under:food, health — verda vivo @ 12:26 pm tags: fda, hfcs, high fructose corn syrup, mercury, u.s. food and drug administration - - image via wikipedia
my only experience with autism has been as the director of a day care center.
nearly one in three products tested contained detectable mercury.
the process produces trans fats.
we’re even eating more fish and vegetables.
i weaned myself from my diet mountain dew habit over a year ago and feel much better as a result.
- what’s in your shampoo?
- all pork products – pigs are omnivores, which means that they consume both plants and animals.
- artificial sweeteners – as many as 194 million americans regularly eat and drink sugar-free products.
enriched white flour just means that a few isolated and synthetic vitamins and minerals have been added back into the flour.
related posts: - food additives cause hyperactive behavior - high fructose corn syrup and mercury enjoy this post?
not just items where you know you’re buying a fix for your sweet tooth like candy, ice cream, snack cakes or fruit pies.
national center for biotechnology  information –a comprehensive review of mercury provoked autism.
it turns up in some unlikely places, such as pizza, bread, hot dogs, boxed rice mixes, soup, crackers, spaghetti sauce, lunch meat, canned vegetables, fruit drinks, flavored yogurt, ketchup, salad dressing, mayonnaise, and some peanut butter.
the corn refiners association welcomed clarification from the u.s. food and drug administration concerning the use of the termnatural for products containing high fructose corn syrup (hfcs).
my name is daryl warner laux.
mercury, high fructose corn syrup and autism february 2, 2009 filed under:food, health — verda vivo @ 5:49 pm tags: autism, hfcs, high fructose corn syrup, mercury, national center for biotechnology information - - image by bbaltimore via flickr you can find news reports and research that indicate mercury, whether present in fish, vaccines, high fructose corn syrup, proximity to coal-burning power plants or occurring naturally in the environment may be linked to increasing incidents of autism.
and as long as my knees hold up, i’ll keep running.
pondering the acceptable level of mercury exposure is a little like taking my daughter into a horse barn for a wee bit.
in making hfcs, caustic soda is used, among other things, to separate corn starch from the corn kernel.
look for whole-grain breads or flour as a healthy alternative.
of course there’s the problems associated with excessive drinking.
powered by wordpress.com
no, it’s in spaghetti sauce, cereal, ketchup, and salad dressings too.
resources: - environmental health journal – mercury from chlor-alkali plants: measured concentrations in food product sugar by dufault et al. - institute for agriculture and trade policy: not so sweet: missing mercury and high fructose corn syrup,” by david wallinga, m.d., janelle sorensen, pooja mottl and brian yablon, m.d. iatp works locally and globally at the intersection of policy and practice to ensure fair and sustainable food, farm and trade systems.
- shellfish and crustaceans – lobsters, crabs, shrimp, clams, mussels, oysters, crayfish and scallops are bottom scavengers or filter feeders.
no more crayfish for me, thanks.
that being said, i still have a nonfat latte every morning and love my cheese.
carbonated soft drinks are the worst offenders in the american diet.
all in all, i follow most of mr. rubin’s recommendations.
don’t kid yourself, food manufacturers do not produce food products for your health.
a separate study by the us institute for agriculture and trade policy (iatp) claims mercury was detected in nearly one-third of 55 brand name food and beverage products where hfcs is the first or second highest labeled ingredient, including, it claims, products by quaker, hershey’s, kraft and smucker’s.
related posts: - high fructose corn syrup is natural - the dirty dozen enjoy this post?
avoiding added sugars, including high fructose corn syrup, cuts out about a ba-zillion prepared foods which is okay with me.
instead of skim milk, mr. rubin recommends unpasteurized milk from grass-fed animals instead of homogenized, pasteurized milk.
- white sugar – sugar–including sucrose, corn sweeteners, honey, and molasses–is, in a sense, the number-one food additive.
in 2007, then-senator barack obama introduced legislation to force the remaining chlor-alkali plants to phase out mercury cell technology by 2012.
theme: rounded by release.
- hydrogenated oils – during the hydrogenation process, hydrogen gas in injected into oil under high pressure to make the oil solid at room temperature and prevent the oil from becoming rancid too quickly.
compared to 1961, we’ve done just that.
“a number of recent studies . . .
what about the average person with a desk job?
blogging (7) business (2) cars (15) energy (6) environment (121) family (26) food (63) garden (21) green (212) health (73) holidays (19) home (89) personal (6) politics (4) recycling (49) technology (14) transportation (26) travel (6) uncategorized (2) archives select month march 2010 july 2009 june 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 blogging resources - blogging basics 101 - is.gd - mylivesignature - one cool site - paint.net - problogger blogroll - best green blogs - cheap like me - dot earth (ny times) - eco-compass (island press) - enviroblog - green daily - green grounded - green living ideas - green options - grist - sustainable development and much more… - sustainablog - the golden art gallery - treehugger - verda vivo cooks shop green - big green purse - consumer reports: greener choices - freecycle - great green goods - reusablebags.com - swaptree - the daily green webroll - change.gov - earth 911 - environmental defense - environmental news network - food and water watch - how can i recycle this?
hydrolyzed soy protein usually contains a significant amount of genetically modified soy.
subscribe in a reader orby email.
- about - contact - articles - index - copyright and disclaimer verda vivo verda vivo means “green life” in the universal language of esperanto.
high fructose corn syrup is present in almost any prepared food you eat.
four u.s. chlor-alkali plants still rely on mercury cell technology.
since raw milk has risks based on the sanitary practices of the farm where it is produced, the next best thing is cultured or fermented dairy whole-milk products, such as yogurt and kefir.
usda 2005 daily calorie recommendation 1961 fao 2003 fao 1800 females / 2200 males 2882.5 3753.74 as our collective waistlines grew, we were exhorted to eat less red meat, switch to margarine, and eat fewer eggs as if they were the sole culprits in our battle of the bulge.
when added this way, the labels are not required to list msg as an ingredient.
so, how does this affect the number of calories we consume?
- 5 ways to clean your toilet naturally - flapper failure flushes dollars down the toilet - questionable convenience - donate your prom dress recent comments - verda vivo on book review: shift your habit - beautiful girl on book review: shift your habit - shelly hardage-wilkerson on book review: shift your habit - giselle on 14 reasons not to drink soda - lorraine gardner on 14 reasons not to drink soda categories select category beauty and fashion (32)
subscribe in a reader or by email.
yet another reason to forgo eating or drinking prepared foods and beverages made with high fructose corn syrup… mercury was found in nearly 50 percent of tested samples of commercial high fructose corn syrup (hfcs), according to a new article published today in the scientific journal, environmental health.
a separate study by the institute for agriculture and trade policy (iatp) detected mercury in nearly one-third of 55 popular brand-name food and beverage products where hfcs is the first or second highest labeled ingredient—including products by quaker, hershey’s, kraft and smucker’s.
these include trichinosis, taenia solium, cysticercosis, and brucellosis.
while the fda had evidence that commercial hfcs was contaminated with mercury four years ago, the agency did not inform consumers, help change industry practice or conduct additional testing.
according to thefda, hydrolyzed protein is used to enhance flavor and contains monosodium glutamate.
you can also find research that indicates no connection, particularly  between mercury in vaccines and autism.
high fructose corn syrup is used to sweeten lots of foods: - regular soft drinks - fruit drinks, such as fruitades and fruit punch - candy and gum - grain products, such as cakes, cookies, crackers, pies, and sweet rolls - cereals - canned fruits - milk-based desserts and products, such as ice cream, sweetened yogurt and sweetened milk - jams, jellies, and peanut butter - condiments, such as ketchup, mayonnaise, salad dressings (particularly low-fat)
- artificial flavors and artificial colors – food additives have been linked to behavioral problems in children.
dufault was working at the u.s. food and drug administration when the tests were done in 2005.
fructose propels the liver into fat-promoting mode by activating the formation of enymes that lead to elevated levels of “bad” cholesterol and triglycerides.
it’s there because it: - is cheap, cheap, cheap - increases the shelf life of prepared foods - makes baked good brown more evenly - retains moisture and enhances other flavors - makes food taste sweet so you’ll eat and buy more, more, more it is also completely avoidable.
what research might prove for one group might not be true for others.
the united states department of agriculture (usda) recommends 1800 calories per day for females age 31-50 and 2200 calories for males the same age.
mercury was most prevalent in hfcs-containing dairy products, followed by dressings and condiments.
the pervasiveness of hfcs in prepared food products quite possibly means that exposure to mercury is greater for folks who eat those products on a daily basis.
so much for truth in labeling.
the average american eats up to three pounds of sugar every week.
what research might prove for one group might  not be true for others.
if it’s sweet, it sells.
“mercury is toxic in all its forms,” said iatp’s david wallinga, m.d., and a co-author in both studies.
- soft drinks – soft drink are empty calories with little or no nutritional value, considering most are made with high-fructose corn syrup.
we are incredibly complex organisms about which we have relatively rudimentary knowledge.
the presence of these diseases and parasites is one of the reasons why pork meat should always be well cooked or cured before eating.
nitrates can turn into nitrites which have been found to cause cancer and tumors in test animals.
this is big business and there’s money to be made.
rss comments rss wp follow follow “verda vivo” get every new post delivered to your inbox.
they are in business to make money.
i dislike most prepared foods and normally shop the perimeter of the grocery store.
the next time you go to the grocers, look at the list of ingredients.
if you’re the parent of an autistic child, you struggle to find  answers and solutions.
they have also been associated with allergies and skin rashes.
in the meantime, i was struck by a post in amie’s notebook – excuse me while i get on my soapbox for a moment… amie’s six year old daughter, lucy, is a victim of mercury toxicity.
you cannot add sugar in one form or another to every food product in the market and then decry the obesity epidemic.
related posts: - artificial sweeteners – how sweet are they?
compared to current recommendations issued in 2005, we were already consuming more than enough calories in 1961 according to the food and agriculture organization (fao) of the united nations.
i cannot imagine how his parents coped.
in fat, it reduces ghrelin hormone levels, which tell you “i’m still hungry”.
the crayfish went crazy, coming out of their hiding places from all over, to devour the tasty goodness.
when do we admit that there is a correlation between the toxins we’ve  released into our environment, what we eat and drink, what medicines we take  and our overall health?
read more at my about page.
the consumption of trans fats increases one’s risk ofcoronary heart disease by raising levels of “bad” ldl cholesterol and lowering levels of “good” hdl cholesterol.
they can hardly wait to slap “made with natural ingredients” on products made with hfcs.
if you’re the parent of an autistic child, you struggle to find answers and solutions.
we are incredibly complex organisms about which we have  relatively rudimentary knowledge.
if the ingredient list contains the words “shortening”, “partially hydrogenated vegetable oil” or “hydrogenated vegetable oil”, then the food contains trans fat.
these are all sugar.
sugar, invert sugar, sucrose, balactose, dextrose, fructose, maltose, lactose, glucose, (any ingredient ending in -ose), corn sweetener, corn syrup, glycogen, mannitol, sorbitol, monosaccharides, polysaccharides, honey, molasses, malt syrup, maple syrup, maple sugar, date sugar, brown sugar, fruit juice concentrates, raw sugar, turbinado sugar and, of course, our newly “natural” friend, high fructose corn syrup.
even if the label says “zero trans fat”, the fda allows manufacturers to have less than 0.5 grams of trans fat per serving and still legally use the term “zero trans fat”.
when i lived in oregon, we would go upriver to swim and catch crayfish.
and oysters, clams or mussels in arizona?
you’ll find it in soda, fruit juice, baked goods, canned fruits, dairy products, cooks, gum, jam, jellies, pickles…you get the picture.
this site reflects my passion for environmental issues, climate change, conservation, pollution, recycling, organics and "going green".
i find soft drinks too sweet for my taste.
pigs harbor a range ofparasites and diseases that can be transmitted to humans.
comments (7) welcome to verda vivo.
even though i love shrimp, i don’t eat much of it after researchingpoison shrimp cocktail.
consumption by teenagers and other high consumers can be up to 80 percent above average levels.
pigs will scavenge and have been known to eat any kind of food, including dead insects, worms, tree bark, rotting carcasses, garbage, and even other pigs.
while i’m not a vegetarian, i’ll think twice before buying any more pork.
“given how much high fructose corn syrup is consumed by children, it could be a significant additional source of mercury never before considered.
in 2005, 90 percent of chlorine production was mercury-free, but just 40 percent of european production was mercury-free.
she and co-authors conclude that possible mercury contamination of food chemicals like hfcs was not common knowledge within the food industry that frequently uses the sweetener.
food companies just need a good push to only use those ingredients.”
comments (3) the dirty dozen december 11, 2008 filed under: food, green, health — verda vivo @ 5:43 pm tags: artificial colors, artificial sweeteners, high fructose corn syrup, hydrogenated oils, hydrolyzed soy protein, milk, pork, raw milk, shellfish, soft drinks, white flour, white sugar jordan rubin, author of “perfect weight america” lists the “dirty dozen” food items that we all should avoid for better health.
top posts - 5 ways to clean your toilet naturally - 14 reasons not to drink soda - top 10 world's worst pollution problems - the real cost of free plastic bags - about recent posts - book review: shift your habit - 12 food additives to avoid - mend it yourself - the big bread lie - what’s in your drain cleaner?
- processed meats and hydrolyzed soy protein – processed meats contain nitrates for flavor, color and as a preservative.
i never thought much about what crayfish eat until my sister’s dog pooped in the water.
you can also find research that indicates no connection, particularly between mercury in vaccines and autism.
in the environmental health article, dufault et al. found detectable levels of mercury in nine of 20 samples of commercial hfcs.
i imagine vaccine manufacturers might have a vested interest in research results considering possible litigation.
the corn refiners association claim that: “the study appears to be based on outdated information since the corn industry has used mercury-free versions of the two re-agents mentioned in the study, hydrochloric acid and caustic soda, for several years.”
source: mercury tainted hfcs in produce, say researchers
- beer, wine and alcoholic drinks – this one pains me since i do like my glass of wine in the evening.
i run 6 miles at least 4 times a week and still must avoid processed foods to keep my weight in check.
discover –vaccines and autism: yet another dead link.
- high-fructose corn syrup – manufacturers use hfcs because it’s cheap.
however, his book was written for folks who are trying to lose weight and alcohol in all its forms is highly caloric.
my only experience with autism has been as the director  of a day care center.
national center for biotechnology information –a comprehensive review of mercury provoked autism.
calories per day from 1961 2003 butter 65 40 eggs 67 56 red meat 140 119 poultry 64 197 fish 20 28 vegetables 64 78
these are the main ingredients of packaged, processed foods in america.
of course, few people actually go through that much actual table sugar, but it is found in almost all of the processed foods we eat.
if you drink one can of soda per day, you will consume 55,000 extra calories in one year, or 15 pounds of weight gain.
have convinced me that hfcs does not affect weight gain,” says barry popkin of the university of north carolina, who was an early proponent of the hfcs-obesity hypothesis.
comments (3) high fructose corn syrup is natural july 16, 2008 filed under: business, food, green, health — verda vivo @ 8:36 am tags: calories, corn refiners association, diet, fat, hfcs, high fructose corn syrup, obesity, processed foods, sugar, sweeteners, usda, weight, weight loss
- pasteurized, homogenized skim milk – this one surprised me.
i’ve often wondered why humans are the only species that drink the milk of another animal.
comments (12) mercury in high fructose corn syrup – take two january 29, 2009 filed under: food, health — verda vivo @ 2:02 pm tags: corn refiners association, hfcs, high fructose corn syrup, iatp, mercury, us institute for agriculture and trade policy - - image via wikipedia
the battle rages on about the presence of mercury in high fructose corn syrup (hfcs)… according to an article published in the journal, environmental health journal, mercury was found in nearly 50 per cent of tested samples of commercial high fructose corn syrup (hfcs).
the difference is that mercury exposure is not always so dramatic as it is forlucy.
i imagine vaccine manufacturers might  have a vested interest in research results considering possible litigation.
hfcs is found in sweetened beverages, breads, cereals, breakfast bars, lunch meats, yogurts, soups and condiments.
we admitted a young autistic boy and discovered quickly  we were unprepared for his behavior – throwing toys at and hitting the  other children.
mercury, high fructose corn syrup and autism february 2, 2009 filed under:food, health — verda vivo @ 5:49 pm tags: autism, hfcs,  high fructose corn syrup, mercury, national center for biotechnology information image by bbaltimore via flickr you can find news reports and research that indicate mercury, whether  present in fish, vaccines, high fructose corn syrup, proximity to coal-burning  power plants or occurring naturally in the environment may be linked to  increasing incidents of autism.
- ditch the soda habit - food additives cause hyperactive behavior - high fructose corn syrup is natural - natural sweeteners – how sweet they are - poison shrimp cocktail enjoy this post?
maybe if it wasn’t in every food item you buy!
when do we admit that there is a correlation between the toxins we’ve released into our environment, what we eat and drink, what medicines we take and our overall health?
the last time she ended up in the hospital because she couldn’t breathe.
on average, americans consume about 12 teaspoons per day of hfcs.
resources: - food and agriculture organization (fao) of the un - hfcsfacts.com - la times: maybe it’s all that high-fructose corn syrup - treehugger: you are where you eat obesity maps of north america - usda: dietary guidelines for americans, 2005 - weight of the evidence – do we need more plant-based calories in our diet?
hfcs use has skyrocketed in recent decades as the sweetener has replaced sugar in many processed foods.
the problem with hfcs is that the body handles fructose differently than all other sugars.
whether or not artificial sweeteners are “safe” for our health, why consume an artificial product when a natural one if available?
- junk mail opt out - natural resources defense council - nature conservancy - organic consumers association - skin deep: cosmetic safety database - stopglobalwarming.org - the golden art gallery - the green guide – national geographic - watersense meta - register - log in - entries rss - comments rss - wordpress.com blog at wordpress.com.
verda vivo means “green life” in the universal language of  esperanto.
these three categories alone account for a 685.31 calorie increase.
i think this was an excellent write-up – one more link in the mercury-high fructose corn syrup chain: autism.
he concedes that some might be controversial.
while i have eliminated most of the foods on his list, there are some that surprised me, like skim milk.
i think this was an excellent write-up – one more  link in the mercury-high fructose corn syrup chain: autism.
combine that with daily exercise and i weigh within two pounds of my weight in high school.
we are calling for immediate changes by industry and the fda to help stop this avoidable mercury contamination of the food supply.”
the use of mercury cells to produce caustic soda can contaminate caustic soda, and ultimately hfcs, with mercury.
in the same time period, the increases in sugar & sweeteners, vegetable oils, and cereal grains are dramatic.