that's why it's commonly used as flavour enhancer.
sugar is a great flavour enhancer.
it's not as sweet as the sugar syrup.
you can add the sugar directly, but because sugar is more soluble in water than in alcohol, it's usually better to make a simplesugar syrup... ...and add it to your infusion little by little.
home > useful information >
you will ruin the taste.
never use artificial sweeteners - never!
another option is glucose syrup.
true danish flavoured schnapps should not contain more than 15 grams sugar per liter.
however, you can substitute white sugar for other sweeteners such as fruit  sugars, brown sugar, cane sugar, a mix of different sugars, corn syrup, or  honey.
also, if your infusion is too weak-flavoured you can certainly enhance the flavours by adding a little, little bit of sugar.
however, you can substitute white sugar for other sweeteners such as fruit sugars, brown sugar, cane sugar, a mix of different sugars, corn syrup, or honey.
just remember that the kind and amount of sweetener you choose will affect both taste and flavours.
these substitutes are interesting alternatives, if you wish to experiment.
sugar and other sweeteners true danish flavoured schnapps should not contain more than 15 grams sugar  per liter.
that's why it's  commonly used as flavour enhancer.
white sugar does not impart a distinctive taste of its own.
you can add the sugar directly, but because sugar is more soluble in water  than in alcohol, it's usually better to make a simplesugar syrup... ...and add it to your infusion little by little.
also, if your infusion is too weak-flavoured you can certainly enhance the  flavours by adding a little, little bit of sugar.
but of course, you can add as much sugar or other sweeteners as you want to  suit your own taste.
just remember that the kind and amount of sweetener you choose will affect  both taste and flavours.
but of course, you can add as much sugar or other sweeteners as you want to suit your own taste.
home > useful information > sweetening