excitotoxins: the taste that kills - russell l. blaylock, m.d. health press, santa fe, 1994 19.
the accumulation of evidence, concerning both  acute and chronic hazards, now poses a substantial problem for both regulatory  officials and for the general public.
but they contend that the impact of those innovations upon the reported incidence of these central nervous system (cns) tumors had fully worked their way through before aspartame was introduced.
a year later conlon took a  position with the law firm that represents searle.
each  of these ingredients have a long history of causing serious physical side  effects.
remington, b. higa, the bitter truth about artificial sweeteners.
1974 - searle people said these studies raised “no health problems.”
the dominant producer is the nutrasweet corporation (a subsidiary of  monsanto), and a recently published estimate suggested that world sales  amounted to approximately $1,000 million in 1995.(1)
aspartame is not the answer to the high sugar consumption in ‘america today.
(searle is not obligated to monitor any adverse reactions.)
roberts, aspartame, nutrasweet.
their second main finding is that there has also been a marked change in  the incidence of particular types of brain tumors, with a reduction in the  proportion of a relatively unaggressive (and often preliminary) type of tumor  (astrocytomas) and a sharp increase in the incidence of a far more aggressive  (and all too often terminal) type of tumor (glioblastomas).
this blockage has been linked a one cause of carbohydrate cravings, pms symptoms, insomnia, mood swings, and migraine headaches.
doubts about the safety of  this compound have, however, surfaced repeatedly during its turbulent history,  and a particularly serious set of fresh doubts have recently emerged in a paper  in the journal neuropathology and experimental neurology, focusing on the  possibility that aspartame might be contributing to the increasing incidence of  brain cancer.(2) prof. john olney of washington university st. louis and his colleagues have  based their hypothesis on several sets of considerations.
1-800-494-7782 609-978-7583 [nj] © 1994-2010 afpa® & american fitness professionals & associates®, inc.
it was approved as a  “food additive,” and hence, exempt from continued safety  monitoring.
firstly, the type of cns tumor found to be increasing most rapidly in the usa is the same kind of lesion as was found in one of the animal studies conducted on aspartame in the 1970s.(3)
it has been found that methanol (free-form wood alcohol) can race through the system of a highly fit individual due to their high metabolic rate.
toxicol letters 1981, 7:433-437.
dr.  hayes office approved the use of asp in soft drinks just two months before he  quit his job as fda chief.
walton, seizure and mania after high intake of aspartame.
this article was written based partially on the evidence presented in these studies/medical and scientific texts: bibliography 1.
firstly, they  analyzed the cancer statistics gathered by the us national cancer institute  from catchment areas representing approximately 10% of the us population for  the period since 1975.
1981 - dr. arthur hull hayes, jr. was appointed the new fda commissioner and overruled the public board of inquiry’s recommended ban of asp.
before these imaging technologies were introduced, it was far harder to diagnose brain cancer.
the time seemed ripe for asp.
these were not reported to the fda.
both the public board of inquiry and the fda staff scientists were, however, over-ruled by the incoming fda commissioner, arthur hull hayes, who asserted that the brain cancer risk was minimal and that further research was not necessary.
these (2 mds and one ph.d.) voted to ban asp.
he said his approval was part of the reagan administration’s new reform!
fda establishment investigation report on searle laboratories, to richard ronk, bureau of foods, by j. bressler et al, 7 aug. 1977, p. 2 afpa 1601 long beach blvd.
searle deleted this negative study when the company submitted safety evidence to the fda.
a team of scientists at the us food and drug administration concurred with the judgment of the board, and they too recommended that further studies be conducted to clarify the issue before aspartame could be considered acceptably safe for use.
many of the products containing artificial sweeteners are labeled as ‘diet’ products implying that consuming artificially sweetened products helps people to control or even to reduce their weight.
ishu, ii: incidence of brain tumors in rats fed aspartame.
sudden weight gains, water retention and flu like symptoms have been observed in fitness people, especially in aerobic instructors.
excitotoxins: the taste that kills - russell l. blaylock, m.d. health  press, santa fe, 1994 19.
scientists were, however, over-ruled by the incoming fda commissioner, arthur  hull hayes, who asserted that the brain cancer risk was minimal and that  further research was not necessary.
they reported that the nitrosated aspartame  had significant mutagenic action.
both the public board of inquiry and the fda staff
the symptoms reported include headaches and blurred vision at the most mild through to epileptic-type seizures at the most severe.
a classic example was an article in the sept. 1991 issue of idea today.
but they contend that  the impact of those innovations upon the reported incidence of these central  nervous system (cns) tumors had fully worked their way through before aspartame  was introduced.
toxicol  letters 1981, 7:433-437.
consequently, it was often not until tumors developed into glioblastomas that they were diagnosed, and a relatively high portion of tumors at the earlier astrocytoma stage went undetected.
maher and r.j. wurtman, possible neurologic effects of aspartame, a widely used 7.
the dominant producer is the nutrasweet corporation (a subsidiary of monsanto), and a recently published estimate suggested that world sales amounted to approximately $1,000 million in 1995.(1)
it  has been found that methanol (free-form wood alcohol) can race through the  system of a highly fit individual due to their high metabolic rate.
that implies that, in aggregate, artificial sweeteners are not acting as sugar substitutes but merely as supplements to sugar consumption.
throughout the 1980’s searle has pointed out that the best evidence of asp’s safety was the fact that it had been approved in more than 60 countries.
fda establishment investigation report on searle laboratories, to  richard ronk, bureau of foods, by j. bressler et al, 7 aug. 1977, p. 2
olney et al also suggest that aspartame may reasonably be suspected of responsibility because the other main candidates for responsibility, such as ionizing radiation, smoke inhalation, pesticides, electromagnetic fields and various other chemicals were gradually introduced over recent decades rather than all at once in the early 1980s.
wurtman, e.r.walker, dietary phenylalanine and brain function, mit press may, 15.
the change was most noticeable between 1984 and 1985, and it corresponded to approximately 1,500 extra cases of brain cancer per year in the usa.
he then obtained a job with a public relations firm  who represents nutrasweet.
aerobic instructors and other fitness participants that consume diet  beverages after exercise are at risk for absorbing high levels of methanol.
saccharin study and labeling act amendments of 1985.
firstly, they analyzed the cancer statistics gathered by the us national cancer institute from catchment areas representing approximately 10% of the us population for the period since 1975.
if olney’s hypothesis is to be substantiated it will be necessary to analyze several long-term brain cancer time- series data sets for other countries covering the period both before and since aspartame was introduced.
aspartame  is not the answer to the high sugar consumption in ‘america today.
firstly, the type of  cns tumor found to be increasing most rapidly in the usa is the same kind of  lesion as was found in one of the animal studies conducted on aspartame in the  1970s.(3)
1981 - dr. arthur hull hayes, jr. was appointed the new fda commissioner  and overruled the public board of inquiry’s recommended ban of asp.
aspartame is a combination of three substances: the amino acid phenylalanine, aspartic acid (man made) and methanol (wood alcohol).
the dangers associated with aspartame are  so widespread, that a report by 60 minutes and hard copy in february 1997  illustrated the dangers and how the drug company who manufactures aspartame  lied in the senate subcommittee hearings both initially in 1973 and again in  1991.
the manner in which no fewer than 15 of the initial safety  tests were conducted and reported during the 1970s has been repeatedly  criticized.
they believe asp should be recalled and retested as a drug.
their second main finding is that there has also been a marked change in the incidence of particular types of brain tumors, with a reduction in the proportion of a relatively unaggressive (and often preliminary) type of tumor (astrocytomas) and a sharp increase in the incidence of a far more aggressive (and all too often terminal) type of tumor (glioblastomas).
1985 - reports of side-effects mount.
safety questions remain unanswered.”
before these imaging technologies were introduced, it was far harder to  diagnose brain cancer.
since those latter changes  run counter to the direction which could be attributed to the introduction of  better diagnostic technologies, it is hard to see how the reported changing  tumor incidence could be ascribed to innovations in diagnosis.
a decision of that sort, in relation to an  artificial sweetener, will depend on a judgment about the balance of benefits  and risks.
current opinion in neurology and neurosurgery 1993, 6:414-422 uk 6.
isn’t it interesting that the consumption of aspartame has correlated with the increase in alzheimer’s disease and other neurological diseases during the past twenty-five years?
the national soft drink association wrote to the fda that asp was breaking down in warm climates.
drinking between 1-3 12 ounce cans or glasses of diet beverage that  contains aspartame on a hot day after exercise can expose you to 8 times the  environmental protection agency’s recommended safe limit for methanol.
the introduction and rapid diffusion of computerized tomography in the  early to mid- 1970s, and of magnetic resonance imaging technology in the early  to mid-1980s, certainly improved diagnostic precision.
mullarkey, bittersweet aspartame, a diet delusion.
it is, moreover, one of the most successful synthetic chemicals every produced.
the manner in which no fewer than 15 of the initial safety tests were conducted and reported during the 1970s has been repeatedly criticized.
these were  not reported to the fda.
each of these ingredients have a long history of causing serious physical side effects.
the investigators argue, moreover, that the reported changes in tumor incidence were unlikely to have been artifacts of improvements in diagnostic technologies.
an fda task force showed, for example, that in one particular study  it was impossible to identify the occasion on which a particular animals had  died.
the fda banned cyclamate during the time that the safety of  saccharin was being questioned.
the public are entitled to be sure, in particular, that none of the experts advising the authorities are acting as paid consultants to the companies which either manufacture or utilize artificial sweeteners.
anecdotal evidence suggests that a larger proportion of 50 to 70 year old americans consume aspartame-sweetened products than is the case in the uk or in other european countries.
if aspartame were to act by modifying an already present or nascent brain cancer, we should expect its impact to vary in different countries in ways which depend on the age structure of the consumers of this sweetener.
if aspartame  were to act by modifying an already present or nascent brain cancer, we should  expect its impact to vary in different countries in ways which depend on the  age structure of the consumers of this sweetener.
august 1, 1985, p. s10820-10847 12.
the challenge for policy-makers, as ever, is to decide how much evidence is sufficient to support a judgment that something is either sufficiently safe or that it poses a significant hazard.
on the contrary, the bulk of the available evidence  suggests that in relation to attempted weight loss, artificial sweeteners are  at best ineffective and at worst counter-productive.
if the likely benefits and risks of aspartame are to be properly explored, and if consumers are to be properly informed and protected, these complex issues need to be explored in a comprehensive and open fashion, and not behind closed doors, be they in whitehall, in the european commission in brussels or at the world health organization’s office in geneva.
the incidence of glioblastomas rose sharply, and starting in the late 1980s the  number of astrocytomas declined even more sharply.
4, no. 4, winter 1991 3.
a year later conlon took a position with the law firm that represents searle.
aerobic instructors and other fitness participants that consume diet beverages after exercise are at risk for absorbing high levels of methanol.
searle told the fda about these findings after approval was  granted.
they found that the introduction of aspartame into the  usa, into dry goods in 1981 and soft drinks in 1983, was followed by an abrupt  increase (of approximately 10%) in the reported incidence of brain tumors.
aspartame removes the  essential mineral chromium from the body, which is necessary in regulating the  clearance of glucose from the blood while assisting insulin’ s capability  for glucose regulation.
olney and his colleagues suspect aspartame to be implicated in the etiology of the extra cases of brain cancer for three main reasons.
the challenge for policy-makers, as ever, is to decide how much evidence is  sufficient to support a judgment that something is either sufficiently safe or  that it poses a significant hazard.
there is an excellent source of research information on aspartame:  aspartame consumer safety network (acsn) in dallas, tx.
laboratories study number p-t 838h71, submitted to the fda 25 january 1973,  master file numbers e-33 and e-34 3.
there is an excellent source of research information on aspartame:
two year toxicity study in the rat: final report and appendix,
just about any food that once had sugar as an ingredient now can have  aspartame instead.
there is no safe level of aspartame since it was originally classified by the department of defense as a neuro-excitatory toxin, and it is a cumulative effect in the body.
nutrivoice, inc.  isbn -00-7 1992.
the period since the early  1980s has seen a rapid rise in the consumption of artificial sweeteners, but  there has been no corresponding decline in the consumption of sugar, either in  the usa, the uk or in the european union as a whole.
you guessed it: deadlock.
nutrivoice, inc. isbn -00-7 1992.
he  said his approval was part of the reagan administration’s new reform!
the lancet, sept. 1986 9.
national cancer institute cancer statistics review 1973-87.
neither the ministry of agriculture, fisheries and food  nor the department of health, nor the european commission nor even the who can  provide such an assurance.
shephard s. e. et al, ‘mutagenic activity of peptides and the artificial sweetener aspartame after nitrosation’, food and chemical toxicology, 1993, vol. 31, pp.
the introduction and rapid diffusion of computerized tomography in the early to mid- 1970s, and of magnetic resonance imaging technology in the early to mid-1980s, certainly improved diagnostic precision.
congressional record, senate.
the charles press, december  1989.
shaw, excitatory amino acid receptors, excitotoxicity, and the human  nervous system.
no 11, november 1996 2.
p. 776 olney j. w. et al, ‘increasing brain tumor rates: is there a link to aspartame?’, journal of neuropathology and experimental neurology, vol.
journal of applied nutrition, vol.
vitality house press, 16.
on the contrary, the bulk of the available evidence suggests that in relation to attempted weight loss, artificial sweeteners are at best ineffective and at worst counter-productive.
while olney and his colleagues have raised complex questions about the safety of aspartame, other questions have previously been raised without having been fully answered.
actually the increased intake of aspartame over the past twenty-five years since it’s fda approval are correlated with higher intake of sugar (over 150 pounds per year) and associated states of degenerative diseases that rack our country.
dr. hayes office approved the use of asp in soft drinks just two months before he quit his job as fda chief.
phenylalanine, for example, lowers or blocks production of the  neurotransmitter serotonin, which sends messages from the pineal gland in the  brain.
if the apparent increase in overall incidence had been due to improved diagnostics, then we should expect a marked change in post- diagnostic survival rates, but no such change was evident.
the national soft drink association wrote to the fda that asp was  breaking down in warm climates.
indeed, when the safety of aspartame was considered by a public board of inquiry in 1980, it recommended against the approval of aspartame primarily because of a concern that aspartame appeared to be a brain carcinogen in rodents.
one died after 300 days of (aspartame) from here on referred to as “asp”, and five others had grand mal seizures.
aspartame consumer safety network (acsn) in dallas, tx.
exposures to those potential hazards are,  furthermore, occupational linked and it is hard to see how they could explain  why males and females seem to be equally affected.
indeed, when the safety of aspartame was considered by a public board  of inquiry in 1980, it recommended against the approval of aspartame primarily  because of a concern that aspartame appeared to be a brain carcinogen in  rodents.
the dangers associated with aspartame are so widespread, that a report by 60 minutes and hard copy in february 1997 illustrated the dangers and how the drug company who manufactures aspartame lied in the senate subcommittee hearings both initially in 1973 and again in 1991.
that has proved difficult because while aggregate brain cancer statistics are readily available, information on tumors types is hard to obtain.
drinking between 1-3 12 ounce cans or glasses of diet beverage that contains aspartame on a hot day after exercise can expose you to 8 times the environmental protection agency’s recommended safe limit for methanol.
an fda task force showed, for example, that in one particular study it was impossible to identify the occasion on which a particular animals had died.
searle deleted this negative study when the  company submitted safety evidence to the fda.
the  change was most noticeable between 1984 and 1985, and it corresponded to  approximately 1,500 extra cases of brain cancer per year in the usa.
it was approved as a “food additive,” and hence, exempt from continued safety monitoring.
psychomatics, 1986; 14.
there is, in particular, evidence that artificial sweeteners are appetite  stimulants, and while a particular mouthful of artificially sweetened food or  drink may contain fewer calories than their sugar-sweetened analogues, the  consumption of artificial sweeteners may provoke people into going on, what  might be termed, ‘a calorie hunt’.
1980 - a public board of inquiry of three scientists was activated.
when the imaging  technologies were introduced, brain tumors tended to be detected at the earlier  stage, and consequently in the late 1970s the number of reported astrocytomas  went up, while the number of glioblastomas exhibited a corresponding decline.
aspartame a chemical compound found in products such as nutrasweet® and equal®, are in over 3,000 foods, including crystal lite®, diet soda, diet foods, and other drinks that are consumed heavily in the fitness industry.
1984 - seven million pounds of nutrasweet are swallowed by about 100,000 people.
aspartame ranks number one for over a decade with complaints received by the fda, representing over 85 percent of all complaints received yearly.
the incidence of glioblastomas rose sharply, and starting in the late 1980s the number of astrocytomas declined even more sharply.
it is, however, quite hard to demonstrate that artificial sweeteners  are beneficial to any group other than diabetics.
that evidence may be important because it suggests not only a mechanism through which aspartame could exert a possible carcinogenic action, but also why the interval between the compound’s introduction and the elevation of brain cancer rates appears to have been so brief.
by: mark j. occhipinti, m.s., ph.d., n.d.c many individuals, in an attempt to avoid sugar, use sugar substitutes.
this blockage has been linked a one cause of carbohydrate cravings, pms  symptoms, insomnia, mood swings, and migraine headaches.
there are over 73 symptoms associated directly to the use of aspartame,  including dizziness, headaches, loss of equilibrium, ear problems, hemorrhaging  of the eyes, and visual impairment.
authors jean  carper and ann louise gittleman state we have no idea how much we are actually  consuming during the course of one day if diet foods and diet drinks are being  consumed.
maher and r.j. wurtman, possible neurologic effects of aspartame, a  widely used 7.
the charles press, december 1989.
1984 - seven million pounds of nutrasweet are swallowed by about 100,000  people.
1971 - dr. john olney, a research psychiatrist, told searle that aspartic  acid caused “holes in the brains of mice.”
as the report says: “observation records indicated that animal  a23lm was alive at week 88, dead from week 92 through week 104, alive at week  108, and dead at week 112.”(5) that represented just one of 52 significant shortcomings in the conduct and  reporting of just one of those 15 studies.
a decision of that sort, in relation to an artificial sweetener, will depend on a judgment about the balance of benefits and risks.
doubts about the safety of this compound have, however, surfaced repeatedly during its turbulent history, and a particularly serious set of fresh doubts have recently emerged in a paper in the journal neuropathology and experimental neurology, focusing on the possibility that aspartame might be contributing to the increasing incidence of brain cancer.(2) prof. john olney of washington university st. louis and his colleagues have based their hypothesis on several sets of considerations.
the investigators  argue, moreover, that the reported changes in tumor incidence were unlikely to  have been artifacts of improvements in diagnostic technologies.
sudden weight gains, water retention and flu like  symptoms have been observed in fitness people, especially in aerobic  instructors.
dr. jacqueline verrett, ph.d., toxicologist on the team said, “bureau  officials were working up to a whitewash.
journal of applied  nutrition, vol.
the accumulation of evidence, concerning both acute and chronic hazards, now poses a substantial problem for both regulatory officials and for the general public.
the fda banned cyclamate during the time that the safety of saccharin was being questioned.
shephard s. e. et al, ‘mutagenic activity of peptides and the  artificial sweetener aspartame after nitrosation’, food and chemical  toxicology, 1993, vol. 31, pp.
environmental health perspectives.
another member was added.
that has proved difficult because while aggregate brain cancer statistics are  readily available, information on tumors types is hard to obtain.
but these foreign approvals had been based on these controversial  test, and the questionable approval of the fda.
one died after  300 days of (aspartame) from here on referred to as “asp”, and five  others had grand mal seizures.
hazelton laboratories study number p-t 838h71, submitted to the fda 25 january 1973, master file numbers e-33 and e-34 3.
1974 - searle people said these studies raised “no health  problems.”
drake, panic attacks and excessive aspartame ingestion.
the symptoms reported  include headaches and blurred vision at the most mild through to epileptic-type  seizures at the most severe.
actually the increased intake of aspartame over the past twenty-five years  since it’s fda approval are correlated with higher intake of sugar (over  150 pounds per year) and associated states of degenerative diseases that rack  our country.
as the report says: “observation records indicated that animal a23lm was alive at week 88, dead from week 92 through week 104, alive at week 108, and dead at week 112.”(5) that represented just one of 52 significant shortcomings in the conduct and reporting of just one of those 15 studies.
saccharin study and labeling act  amendments of 1985.
several commentators have therefore argued that unless and until those 15 pivotal studies are repeated, no-one can be in a position confidently to assert that aspartame is safe.
phenylalanine, for example, lowers or blocks production of the neurotransmitter serotonin, which sends messages from the pineal gland in the brain.
p. 776 olney j. w. et al,  ‘increasing brain tumor rates: is there a link to aspartame?’,  journal of neuropathology and experimental neurology, vol.
1987 - acsn is founded by mary nash stoddard and consumer advocate, james turner.
because it is  a dipeptide of two familiar and essential amino acids, namely aspartic acid and  phenylalanine, there are prima facie reasons for thinking that it should be  safe.
learned helplessness: unlocking the hidden key to life-long success!
throughout the 1980’s searle has pointed out that the best evidence of  asp’s safety was the fact that it had been approved in more than 60  countries.
chemistry and industry, 21 october 1996,
but the association later accepted asp.
just about any food that once had sugar as an ingredient now can have aspartame instead.
if olney’s hypothesis is to be substantiated it will be necessary to  analyze several long-term brain cancer time- series data sets for other  countries covering the period both before and since aspartame was introduced.
many of the products containing artificial sweeteners are labeled as  ‘diet’ products implying that consuming artificially sweetened  products helps people to control or even to reduce their weight.
in the mid-to-late 1980s, a series of reports  started to emerge suggesting that aspartame is capable of acute adverse  reactions in a small proportion of sensitive consumers.
a team of scientists at the us food and drug administration concurred  with the judgment of the board, and they too recommended that further studies  be conducted to clarify the issue before aspartame could be considered  acceptably safe for use.
olney and his colleagues have also drawn attention to the results of a study by shephard et al published in 1993.(4) shephard and her colleagues attempted to simulate in vitro the conditions that can occur in the human digestive tract, and in particular the conditions which result in the nitrosation of dietary ingredients.
three senate hearings have been conducted on the safety of aspartame, and  the center for science in the public interest (cspi) in washington, d.c. now  list aspartame as the third-worst food additive of all time.
the artificial sweetener aspartame is said by some commentators to be the  most fully tested and safest food additive in industrial history.
congressional record senate.
journal of  advancements in medicine.
he then obtained a job with a public relations firm who represents nutrasweet.
monte, aspartame: methanol and the public health.
olney et al also suggest that aspartame may reasonably be suspected of  responsibility because the other main candidates for responsibility, such as  ionizing radiation, smoke inhalation, pesticides, electromagnetic fields and  various other chemicals were gradually introduced over recent decades rather  than all at once in the early 1980s.
but these foreign approvals had been based on these controversial test, and the questionable approval of the fda.
the period since the early 1980s has seen a rapid rise in the consumption of artificial sweeteners, but there has been no corresponding decline in the consumption of sugar, either in the usa, the uk or in the european union as a whole.
psychomatics,  1986; 14.
it is, however, quite hard to demonstrate that artificial sweeteners are beneficial to any group other than diabetics.
shaw, excitatory amino acid receptors, excitotoxicity, and the human nervous system.
wurtman, e.r.walker, dietary phenylalanine and brain function, mit  press may, 15.
roberts, h.j.; does aspartame cause human brain cancer?.
these  (2 mds and one ph.d.) voted to ban asp.
1987 - acsn is founded by mary nash stoddard and consumer advocate, james  turner.
olney and his colleagues suspect aspartame to be implicated in the etiology  of the extra cases of brain cancer for three main reasons.
despite the many complaints about asp, william conlon and thomas sullivan, the us attorneys, took no action, in five years the statute of limitations for a grand jury investigation expired.
since those latter changes run counter to the direction which could be attributed to the introduction of better diagnostic technologies, it is hard to see how the reported changing tumor incidence could be ascribed to innovations in diagnosis.
searle told the fda about these findings after approval was granted.
aspartame ranks number one for over a decade with complaints  received by the fda, representing over 85 percent of all complaints received  yearly.
the artificial sweetener aspartame is said by some commentators to be the most fully tested and safest food additive in industrial history.
despite the many complaints about asp, william conlon and thomas  sullivan, the us attorneys, took no action, in five years the statute of  limitations for a grand jury investigation expired.
1971 - dr. john olney, a research psychiatrist, told searle that aspartic acid caused “holes in the brains of mice.”
there is no safe level of aspartame since it was originally  classified by the department of defense as a neuro-excitatory toxin, and it is  a cumulative effect in the body.
a classic example was an article in the sept. 1991 issue of idea  today.
they found that the introduction of aspartame into the usa, into dry goods in 1981 and soft drinks in 1983, was followed by an abrupt increase (of approximately 10%) in the reported incidence of brain tumors.
after aspartame was introduced, however, the opposite pattern can be found.
consequently, it was often not until tumors developed  into glioblastomas that they were diagnosed, and a relatively high portion of  tumors at the earlier astrocytoma stage went undetected.
anecdotal evidence suggests  that a larger proportion of 50 to 70 year old americans consume  aspartame-sweetened products than is the case in the uk or in other european  countries.
while olney and his colleagues have raised complex questions about the  safety of aspartame, other questions have previously been raised without having  been fully answered.
three senate hearings have been conducted on the safety of aspartame, and the center for science in the public interest (cspi) in washington, d.c. now list aspartame as the third-worst food additive of all time.
that implies that, in  aggregate, artificial sweeteners are not acting as sugar substitutes but merely  as supplements to sugar consumption.
aspartame removes the essential mineral chromium from the body, which is necessary in regulating the clearance of glucose from the blood while assisting insulin’ s capability for glucose regulation.
they reported that the nitrosated aspartame had significant mutagenic action.
anabolic steroids and the depression connection afpa fitness, personal trainer & nutrition newsletters sugar substitutes: white poison in the pink & blue packets
olney and his colleagues have also drawn attention to the results of a  study by shephard et al published in 1993.(4) shephard and her colleagues  attempted to simulate in vitro the conditions that can occur in the human  digestive tract, and in particular the conditions which result in the  nitrosation of dietary ingredients.
an alternative approach might therefore entail conducting new  long-term animal feeding studies, but their relevance to humans is endlessly  contestable.
aspartame is a combination of three substances: the amino  acid phenylalanine, aspartic acid (man made) and methanol (wood alcohol).
vo. 75, p. 53-57, 1987.
that evidence may be important because it  suggests not only a mechanism through which aspartame could exert a possible  carcinogenic action, but also why the interval between the compound’s  introduction and the elevation of brain cancer rates appears to have been so  brief.
several commentators have therefore argued that unless and until  those 15 pivotal studies are repeated, no-one can be in a position confidently  to assert that aspartame is safe.
neither the ministry of agriculture, fisheries and food nor the department of health, nor the european commission nor even the who can provide such an assurance.
two year toxicity study in the rat: final report and appendix, hazelton
p.o. box 214 ship bottom, nj 08008 afpa@afpafitness.com
in the mid-to-late 1980s, a series of reports started to emerge suggesting that aspartame is capable of acute adverse reactions in a small proportion of sensitive consumers.
because of those negative findings a  five member commissioner’s team of scientists was impaneled: three said  ban; two said it was safe.
aspartame a chemical compound found in products such as nutrasweet® and  equal®, are in over 3,000 foods, including crystal lite®, diet soda,  diet foods, and other drinks that are consumed heavily in the fitness industry.
gittleman, ann your body knows best, pocket books, 1997 brief history of aspartame 1969 - dr. harry waisman fed asp mixed with milk to monkeys.
(u.s. attorney, samuel  skinner did the same and ended up chief of staff in bush’s white house.
(u.s. attorney, samuel skinner did the same and ended up chief of staff in bush’s white house.
it is, moreover, one of the most successful synthetic chemicals every  produced.
journal of advancements in medicine.
increasing brain tumor rates: is there a link to aspartame dr. erik millstone, md science policy research unit mantell building university of sussex brighton bn1 9rf england october 1996
those studies have, moreover, never  been repeated.
there is however no reliable evidence to indicate that artificial sweeteners actually help people loose weight.
if the likely benefits and risks  of aspartame are to be properly explored, and if consumers are to be properly  informed and protected, these complex issues need to be explored in a  comprehensive and open fashion, and not behind closed doors, be they in  whitehall, in the european commission in brussels or at the world health  organization’s office in geneva.
august 1,  1985, p. s10820-10847 12.
dr. jacqueline verrett, ph.d., toxicologist on the team said, “bureau officials were working up to a whitewash.
there is  however no reliable evidence to indicate that artificial sweeteners actually  help people loose weight.
there is, in particular, evidence that artificial sweeteners are appetite stimulants, and while a particular mouthful of artificially sweetened food or drink may contain fewer calories than their sugar-sweetened analogues, the consumption of artificial sweeteners may provoke people into going on, what might be termed, ‘a calorie hunt’.
this article was written based partially on the evidence presented in these  studies/medical and scientific texts: bibliography 1.
because of those negative findings a five member commissioner’s team of scientists was impaneled: three said ban; two said it was safe.
if the apparent  increase in overall incidence had been due to improved diagnostics, then we  should expect a marked change in post- diagnostic survival rates, but no such  change was evident.
those studies have, moreover, never been repeated.
safety questions remain  unanswered.”
an alternative approach might therefore entail conducting new long-term animal feeding studies, but their relevance to humans is endlessly contestable.
the public are entitled to be sure, in  particular, that none of the experts advising the authorities are acting as  paid consultants to the companies which either manufacture or utilize  artificial sweeteners.
authors jean carper and ann louise gittleman state we have no idea how much we are actually consuming during the course of one day if diet foods and diet drinks are being consumed.
isn’t it interesting that the  consumption of aspartame has correlated with the increase in alzheimer’s  disease and other neurological diseases during the past twenty-five years?
when the imaging technologies were introduced, brain tumors tended to be detected at the earlier stage, and consequently in the late 1970s the number of reported astrocytomas went up, while the number of glioblastomas exhibited a corresponding decline.
there are over 73 symptoms associated directly to the use of aspartame, including dizziness, headaches, loss of equilibrium, ear problems, hemorrhaging of the eyes, and visual impairment.
the  lancet, sept. 1986 9.
many of the test animals fed asp developed large tumors.
because it is a dipeptide of two familiar and essential amino acids, namely aspartic acid and phenylalanine, there are prima facie reasons for thinking that it should be safe.
exposures to those potential hazards are, furthermore, occupational linked and it is hard to see how they could explain why males and females seem to be equally affected.
aspartame safety act of 1985.