it contains more antioxidants than all other natural sweeteners, and it also contains a small amount of iron, says sandon.
stacey colino has written for the washington  post's health section and many national magazines, including newsweek, woman's day, self, cosmopolitan, glamour, parenting, sports  illustratedand ladies' home journal.
so there you have it:
“and it’s great for mixing in yogurt, drizzling on chicken or using in salad dressings.”
“you can use it for baking, but it’s not very sweet and it may  make a cake more dense,” says ginn.
when researchers at virginia tech compared the antioxidant  content of various sweeteners, they found considerable variability: most antioxidants: dark and blackstrap molasses some antioxidants: maple syrup, brown sugar, honey minimal antioxidants: refined sugar, corn syrup, agave nectar here’s a guide to how sweeteners otherwise stack up, along with  directions for best using each one: agave syrup agave syrup is a natural sweetener made  from the sap of the agave plant.
it contains more antioxidants than all other natural sweeteners, and it  also contains a small amount of iron, says sandon.
also, agave syrup is low on the glycemic index, meaning it doesn’t  raise blood sugar quickly.
molasses molasses is derived from sugar cane or sugar beets.
so you’ll need less to achieve the desired sweetness, says ginn.
we reserve the right to screen,  refuse to post, remove or edit user-generated content at any time and for any  or no reason in our absolute and sole discretion without prior notice, although  we have no duty to do so or to monitor any public forum.
“added sugar, no matter where it comes from, is added sugar -- and in  excessive amounts, it could increase body fat,” says registered dietitian  lona sandon, an assistant professor of clinical nutrition at the university of  texas southwestern medical center.
raw sugar raw sugar comes from sugar cane, just like  white sugar, but it’s less refined, so it’s coarser in texture and  has a golden color (from the molasses it retains).
well agave syrup, stevia, honey and other natural sweeteners are all the rage  these days, as more people worry that white sugar and high-fructose corn syrup  are making them gain weight and increasing their risk for type 2 diabetes.
often used in tea and other beverages or as a topping on baked goods, raw sugar can be sweeter than white sugar --
a reality check: for the most part, your body can’t tell the difference between one type of sweetener and another.
besides its typical use on pancakes, waffles or french toast, maple syrup  also works as a glaze on root vegetables, like sweet potatoes, acorn or  butternut squash, turnips and carrots.
a reality check: for the most part, your body can’t tell the  difference between one type of sweetener and another.
add a comment name: comment: 250 characters left healthy living | wrgb and its affiliated companies are not responsible for  the content of comments posted or for anything arising out of use of the above  comments or other interaction among the users.
search search © 2008-2010 broadcast interactive media and wrgb.
raw sugar raw sugar comes from sugar cane, just like white sugar, but it’s less refined, so it’s coarser in texture and has a golden color (from the molasses it retains).
but different sweeteners do have different properties when it comes to  cooking and health.
“honey is ideal for beverages because it’s easily absorbed,” says ginn.
brown sugar made from molasses and white sugar, light brown sugar is best for baking (cakes, cookies, pies and sweet breads) or sprinkling on oatmeal.
besides its typical use on pancakes, waffles or french toast, maple syrup also works as a glaze on root vegetables, like sweet potatoes, acorn or butternut squash, turnips and carrots.
because it lends foods a rich, dark flavor as well as a touch of sweetness,  it’s a good choice for baking spice cakes, gingerbread or ginger snaps.
because it lends foods a rich, dark flavor as well as a touch of sweetness, it’s a good choice for baking spice cakes, gingerbread or ginger snaps.
however, because of its consistency, it’s “not as good for baking,” she says.
“no matter what your sweetener comes  from, you need to stick with it in moderation and not overdo it.”
“no matter what your sweetener comes from, you need to stick with it in moderation and not overdo it.”
it contains the same calories as white sugar,
but  are natural sweeteners really any better than plain baking sugar?
stacey colino has written for the washington post's health section and many national magazines, including newsweek, woman's day, self, cosmopolitan, glamour, parenting, sports illustratedand ladies' home journal.
comments and submitted content remain copyright of the submitter.
but it isn’t any  healthier than the white stuff.
also, agave syrup is low on the glycemic index, meaning it doesn’t raise blood sugar quickly.
well: diet natural sweeteners: any better than white sugar?
the whole sugary story so you can make wiser choices  to satisfy your sweet tooth.
if a recipe calls for 1 cup of sugar, you’d use only 1/3 cup of agave,  says registered dietitian angela ginn, a baltimore-based spokeswoman for the  american dietetic association.
and most sweeteners contain similar amounts of calories: approximately 16 per teaspoon.
brown sugar made from molasses and white sugar, light  brown sugar is best for baking (cakes, cookies, pies and sweet breads) or  sprinkling on oatmeal.
maple syrup genuine maple syrup is very sweet and has a slightly woodsy flavor, says ginn, “so a little goes a long way.”
if a recipe calls for 1 cup of sugar, you’d use only 1/3 cup of agave, says registered dietitian angela ginn, a baltimore-based spokeswoman for the american dietetic association.
the dark brown variety, in contrast, gives foods (like baked beans, stews  and gingerbread) a richer flavor, thanks to the extra molasses it contains,  says ginn.
it also “gives a better texture to baked goods  because of how it absorbs water and adds volume to whatever you’re  preparing.”
molasses molasses is derived from sugar cane or sugar  beets.
but different sweeteners do have different properties when it comes to cooking and health.
it also “gives a better texture to baked goods because of how it absorbs water and adds volume to whatever you’re preparing.”
“and it’s great for mixing in yogurt,  drizzling on chicken or using in salad dressings.”
“honey is ideal for beverages because it’s easily  absorbed,” says ginn.
white sugar it may not be as trendy as other natural  sweeteners, but white sugar “holds up better than the others in high  heat,” says sandon.
“you can use it for baking, but it’s not very sweet and it may make a cake more dense,” says ginn.
but “because it has a higher percentage of fructose than what’s in high-fructose corn syrup, it may raise triglyceride levels in your blood, according to studies done at ut southwestern,” warns sandon.
story updated: sep 26, 2011 live
so you’ll need less to achieve  the desired sweetness, says ginn.
in addition to antioxidants, honey also has some  antibacterial properties.
we reserve the right to screen, refuse to post, remove or edit user-generated content at any time and for any or no reason in our absolute and sole discretion without prior notice, although we have no duty to do so or to monitor any public forum.
but it isn’t any healthier than the white stuff.
however, because of its consistency, it’s “not as good for  baking,” she says.
by: story updated: sep 26, 2011
return to top © 2008-2010 broadcast interactive media and wrgb.
original trademark and copyright holders maintain their respective rights.
healthy living | wrgb and its affiliated companies are not responsible for the content of comments posted or for anything arising out of use of the above comments or other interaction among the users.
and most sweeteners  contain similar amounts of calories: approximately 16 per teaspoon.
maple syrup genuine maple syrup is very sweet and has  a slightly woodsy flavor, says ginn, “so a little goes a long way.”
but it’s considerably sweeter -- so you don’t need to use as much.
you can also sprinkle it in your coffee or on berries or oatmeal.
it contains the same calories as white sugar, but it’s considerably sweeter -- so you don’t need to use as much.
the dark brown variety, in contrast, gives foods (like baked beans, stews and gingerbread) a richer flavor, thanks to the extra molasses it contains, says ginn.
by stacey colino for live
well agave syrup, stevia, honey and other natural sweeteners are all the rage these days, as more people worry that white sugar and high-fructose corn syrup are making them gain weight and increasing their risk for type 2 diabetes.
but are natural sweeteners really any better than plain baking sugar?
stevia this sweetener is derived from the leaves of the stevia plant and contains almost no calories -- yet it can be used cup-for-cup as a replacement for sugar, says ginn.
you can also sprinkle it in your  coffee or on berries or oatmeal.
but “because it has a higher percentage of  fructose than what’s in high-fructose corn syrup, it may raise  triglyceride levels in your blood, according to studies done at ut  southwestern,” warns sandon.
white sugar it may not be as trendy as other natural sweeteners, but white sugar “holds up better than the others in high heat,” says sandon.
stevia this sweetener is derived from the leaves of  the stevia plant and contains almost no calories -- yet it can be used  cup-for-cup as a replacement for sugar, says ginn.
often used in tea and other beverages or as a topping on baked goods, raw  sugar can be sweeter than white sugar --
when researchers at virginia tech compared the antioxidant content of various sweeteners, they found considerable variability: here’s a guide to how sweeteners otherwise stack up, along with directions for best using each one: agave syrup agave syrup is a natural sweetener made from the sap of the agave plant.
“added sugar, no matter where it comes from, is added sugar -- and in excessive amounts, it could increase body fat,” says registered dietitian lona sandon, an assistant professor of clinical nutrition at the university of texas southwestern medical center.
the whole sugary story so you can make wiser choices to satisfy your sweet tooth.
in addition to antioxidants, honey also has some antibacterial properties.