spring is here and it's the perfect time to start growing delicious foods right where you live.
"sugar is sugar," and it should always be used in moderation.
the miami herald is pleased to provide this opportunity to share information, experiences and observations about what's in the news.
heart disease, metabolic syndrome, diabetes and death are skyrocketing.'" it blows my mind when i am looking through cookbooks and i see recipe after recipe calling for a tablespoon or even a teaspoon of sugar in things like pancakes, soups, and sauces ... is such a small amount even necessary?
we encourage lively, open debate on the issues of the day, and ask that you refrain from profanity, hate speech, personal comments and remarks that are off point.
miami herald media co.
and i admit i am just as guilty as the next person with my big ol' sweet tooth,  although my taste buds have definitely changed - for the better - since taking  our "100 days of real food" pledge.
and even if you only join us for a day or two instead  of the entire week, i promise it will still be an eye-opening experience  proving just how sugar-laden packaged foods really are.
'when you take the fat out of food, it tastes like cardboard,' says dr. lustig. '
which is  why i have a feeling this might be the most difficult "real food"
can you avoid added sweeteners for one week?
dr. robert lustig, a pediatric endocrinologist at the  university of california, believes the high amount of sugar in the american  diet, much of it in processed foods, is killing us.
dr. robert lustig, a pediatric endocrinologist at the university of california, believes the high amount of sugar in the american diet, much of it in processed foods, is killing us.
so this week it's time to put you to the test - even if it's only for a  couple days.
1335251210 with a politically threatened sen. bill nelson, d-fla., at his side, vice president joe biden mugged before the television cameras monday to tout the democrats' successes in helping to restore the endangered everglades.
'when you take the fat out of food, it tastes like  cardboard,' says dr. lustig. '
this affects comments on all stories.
and as dr. sanjay gupta reports, new scientific research seems to support his theory that sugar is toxic, including some linking the excess ingestion of sugars to heart disease.
60 minutes news  report: "americans are now consuming nearly 130 pounds of added sugars per  person, per year.
so what better way to learn how to reduce your consumption of sweeteners than to completely avoid them for a few days?
and the food industry knew that, so they replaced  it with sugar ... and guess what?
"sugar is sugar," and it  should always be used in moderation.
so this week it's time to put you to the test - even if it's only for a couple days.
heart disease, metabolic syndrome, diabetes  and death are skyrocketing.'
nothing sums up the sugar problem our society faces better than these startling facts from the recent "is sugar toxic?"
our society is obsessed with all things sweet.
i promise you'll be surprised at the findings.
2012, www.100daysofrealfood.com
abstaining from highly processed  junk food really gave our palates an adjustment, and now just a little bit of  sweetness seems to go a long way.
we have introduced a new commenting system called disqus for our articles.
want to join the grow-your-own food movement but just don't know where to start?
i  promise you'll be surprised at the findings.
" it blows my mind when i am looking through cookbooks and i see recipe  after recipe calling for a tablespoon or even a teaspoon of sugar in things  like pancakes, soups, and sauces ... is such a small amount even necessary?
twitter terms of service|
and i am not just referring to white sugar and other refined sweeteners, which we already tackled a few weeks ago.
(to reduce heart disease) a government commission in the 1970s mandated that we lower our fat consumption.
privacy policy| about our ads| copyright| about the miami herald| about the mcclatchy company| corrections| contact us| advertise| work for us partners:
which is why i have a feeling this might be the most difficult "real food" mini-pledge of them all.
60 minutes news report: "americans are now consuming nearly 130 pounds of added sugars per person, per year. ...
why not begin with foods that are nearly fail-proof?
for more information about the "100 days of real food" pledge  including over a hundred recipes and meal ideas check out  http://www.100daysofrealfood.com.
this is the perfect pledge to try on a smaller scale because i  would much rather everyone try it for a short period of time than not at all.
mini-pledge week 12: avoid all added sweeteners including, but not limited  to: white sugar, brown sugar, raw sugar, honey, maple syrup, date sugar, maple  sugar, sucanat, splenda, stevia, agave, fruit juice concentrate, corn syrup,  high-fructose corn syrup, brown rice syrup and cane juice.
weather | traffic note to reader: this column addresses the "100 days of real food" mini-pledge series, which details 14 weekly steps for cutting out highly processed food.
some of the comments may be reprinted elsewhere in the site or in the newspaper.
my yahoo| newsletters| mobile| alerts|
as i've said a thousand times before, no matter what sweetener  you chose (natural, organic, raw, etc.)
this allows readers the option of signing in using their facebook, twitter, disqus or existing miamiherald.com username and password.
(to reduce heart disease) a government commission in the 1970s mandated that we  lower our fat consumption.
i am talking about all added sweeteners even including honey and maple syrup.
mini-pledge week 12: avoid all added sweeteners including, but not limited to: white sugar, brown sugar, raw sugar, honey, maple syrup, date sugar, maple sugar, sucanat, splenda, stevia, agave, fruit juice concentrate, corn syrup, high-fructose corn syrup, brown rice syrup and cane juice.
i am talking about all added sweeteners even including honey  and maple syrup.
and even if you only join us for a day or two instead of the entire week, i promise it will still be an eye-opening experience proving just how sugar-laden packaged foods really are.
and i admit i am just as guilty as the next person with my big ol' sweet tooth, although my taste buds have definitely changed - for the better - since taking our "100 days of real food" pledge.
abstaining from highly processed junk food really gave our palates an adjustment, and now just a little bit of sweetness seems to go a long way.
this is the perfect pledge to try on a smaller scale because i would much rather everyone try it for a short period of time than not at all.
and the food industry knew that, so they replaced it with sugar ... and guess what?
as i've said a thousand times before, no matter what sweetener you chose (natural, organic, raw, etc.)
a spot with six hours or more of sunlight is all you need to do your part for fresher foods.
thank you for taking the time to offer your thoughts.
so what better way to learn how to reduce  your consumption of sweeteners than to completely avoid them for a few days?
el nuevo herald| newspaper in education| wlrn | miami herald news| cbs4 wfor-tv| morecopyright 2012
and  then at the supermarket product after product, even savory items like bread and  crackers, can't seem to make it on the shelves without being sweetened as well.
and as dr. sanjay gupta  reports, new scientific research seems to support his theory that sugar is  toxic, including some linking the excess ingestion of sugars to heart disease.
nothing sums up the sugar problem our society faces better than these  startling facts from the recent "is sugar toxic?"
by lisa leake by lisa leake www.100daysofrealfood.com note to reader: this column addresses the "100 days of real  food" mini-pledge series, which details 14 weekly steps for cutting out  highly processed food.
and i am not just  referring to white sugar and other refined sweeteners, which we already tackled  a few weeks ago.
for more information about the "100 days of real food" pledge including over a hundred recipes and meal ideas check out http://www.100daysofrealfood.com.
and then at the supermarket product after product, even savory items like bread and crackers, can't seem to make it on the shelves without being sweetened as well.
read more about the commenting system on miamiherald.com.
mini-pledge of them all.
2012, www.100daysofrealfood.com home cooks and grocery shoppers wield enormous influence when it comes to controlling the no. 1 source of ozone depleting garbage in our waste stream: food.
here are my top 5 foods to grow at home whether you have a lot of space or just a sunny window.