i remember  being blown away the first time i heard that.
so it’s really great for diabetics or hypoglycaemic or people who just have blood sugar fluctuation problems.
brown rice syrup is one of the best sweeteners because it's a fermented form of sugar and doesn't cause as much of a blood sugar swing as most others.
and then pureed fruits are really good at  mixing things when you’re doing some baking as well.
and again, my favourite to used is fruit and  anything else i just try to minimize as much as possible and keep as whole as  possible when i get it.
splenda and other artificial sweeteners (nutrasweet, sweet n low, etc) are chemicals, and may not add calories or raise your blood sugar, but will have other negative effects.
it’s a good idea to try to minimize the use of sweeteners in general, but  if you have a sweet tooth like me, choosing good ones lets you give in without  throwing off your healthy eating plan.
so it’s always best when you’re looking at fruits to go for the whole food form as much as possible; and sweeteners are the same thing.
but if you want to, the liquid  is okay as well.
the other things are the artificial sweeteners so those are ones where they say that because it doesn’t have an effect on blood sugar.
stevia is a leaf, which doesn't sound very much like a sweetener, but it's actually even more potent than sugar.
so i don’t use agave, there are other options that don’t have  the same downsides.
so i don’t use agave, there are other options that don’t have the same downsides.
let me know by leaving comment and i will see you guys next time.
so my main example would be apple sauce, great to use in baking and you  wanna go for the unsweetened kind because fruit has the natural sugars in it  already.
so, i’m gonna go over my top ones but first thing i just wanna say that whenever you’re using sweeteners the best idea is to minimize how much you’re using.
and they -when it first came out they were saying that it didn’t have the same effect on blood sugar levels but they’re finding that it does.
but when you look at something like brown sugar, one thing i learned that was pretty surprising to me is that brown sugar is just white sugar same refined white crystals which is a bit of molasses added back to them.
i remember being blown away the first time i heard that.
just don't have too much at once and you'll be fine.
you wanna look for that kind of texture rather than a crystal sugar because  the crystals have been refined in some way, where’s that stuff
it’s the good part; it’s got a lot of iron, magnesium, stuff like that.
stevia is a fairly new one and it’s a leaf
molasses as i mentioned, it has all of the nutrients from  the sugar even though it is technically processed and a little bit refined  because it comes off.
so my top sweetener is fruit, i loved to use fresh fruit on top of my morning porridge.
so you know they have to be  processing it a lot in order to make it sweet
free: 7 secrets to shape up your healthy  eating habits 6 best sweeteners to use for a healthy vegan diet plan 27 september
and some are better than others but same time you could always over do it, so keep it minimal and then what you want to choose are one of these.
and it taste great in  gingerbread cookies.
grain sweeteners brown rice syrup is one of the best sweeteners because it's a fermented  form of sugar and doesn't cause as much of a blood sugar swing as most others.
in my opinion, the sweeteners above that are much closer to their whole food state are the better option.
i don’t know if you can see  that very well on camera, but that’s just crystals that have been turned  a little bit brown by molasses.
so, i think fruit, sucanat, stevia, brown rice syrup, molasses and maple  syrup are the best sweeteners.
the name on the one i buy is sucanat, and wholesome sweeteners is a brand to look for at your grocery store.
dried fruits and baking so raisins, things like that can  sweeten things up really nicely.
demerara, turbinado, 'raw' sugars – they've been refined, crystallized and coated in molasses to make them brown.
so that’s a little overview of what i  used and my favourite ones.
i’m talking about things like splenda, nutrasweet, sweet n low,  all those things, they’re chemicals –so they’re-  they’re not good.
my favorite sweetener by far is fruit.
for my best tips on how to achieve optimal health, longevity and your ideal weight, sign up for my 7 free lessons here.
unrefined sugar (sucanat) there are unrefined versions of cane, palm and other sugars.
now white sugar has had all of the nutrients stripped away and then the  main thing they get stripped off is molasses so that’s another sweeteners  that i like to used because it has all of those nutrients in it.
now, cactus is not naturally sweet and the syrup has to be heavily refined to get it there.
be sure to  look for the word 'unrefined', and at the shape of the sugar.
all of the nutrients from the sugar are in the molasses, so it's really high in things like iron, magnesium and b vitamins.
and some are better than others  but same time you could always over do it, so keep it minimal and then what you  want to choose are one of these.
and again, my favourite to used is fruit and anything else i just try to minimize as much as possible and keep as whole as possible when i get it.
now white sugar has had all of the nutrients stripped away and then the main thing they get stripped off is molasses so that’s another sweeteners that i like to used because it has all of those nutrients in it.
(note that this does not include the maple-flavored pancake syrups – those ones are terrible, stay away from them.)
any time you see a crystallized sugar, it's been refined and then formed into a crystal.
some of them have been shown, some of them haven't, but  with so many other good options try to steer clear.
i love the taste of maple syrup...
so while i like molasses okay, i don’t like brown sugar because it’s mainly just the white part; and then there’s some other types of refined sugars like this one is demerara.
molasses when sugar is refined into white crystallized sugar, part of what's taken  away is molasses.
what’s your favorite sweetener?
you wanna look for that kind of texture rather than a crystal sugar because the crystals have been refined in some way, where’s that stuff
the other things are the artificial sweeteners so those are  ones where they say that because it doesn’t have an effect on blood  sugar.
and it’s not  actually a sugar, it’s sweetens
and they -when it first came out  they were saying that it didn’t have the same effect on blood sugar  levels but they’re finding that it does.
unrefined sugar looks like grains of sand, not like crystals.
when sugar is refined into white crystallized sugar, part of what's taken away is molasses.
so it’s always best when you’re looking at fruits to go for the  whole food form as much as possible; and sweeteners are the same thing.
demerara, turbinado, 'raw' sugars – they've been  refined, crystallized and coated in molasses to make them brown.
for my best tips on how to achieve optimal health, longevity and your ideal  weight, sign up for my 7 free lessons here.
(note that this does not include the maple-flavored pancake syrups –  those ones are terrible, stay away from them.)
stevia also comes as a liquid  extract, and that’s
today i wanna  talked about the best sweeteners to use.
blog comments powered by disqus  back to top resources
some other sweeteners that i used so there are some liquids brown rice  syrup is a good one.
stevia is one non-sugar, zero-calorie sweetener that's actually  natural and isn't harmful to you.
it is a little bit processed; they have to cook it  for a really long time to get it sweetened up but in the big scheme of things,  it’s a pretty decent sweetener to use.
just, it’s a cane sugar so it’s just a juice from the cane, the  middle of the cane just dried, where every time you see a crystal it’s  been refined in some way.
brown sugar is just white sugar with a bit of the molasses added back to it.
it is a little bit processed; they have to cook it for a really long time to get it sweetened up but in the big scheme of things, it’s a pretty decent sweetener to use.
i slice fresh fruit into my morning  porridge, i use applesauce and blended banana in baking, and i use dried fruits  like dates and raisins in anything from oatmeal to cookies to coleslaw.
you only need a tiny bit of stevia to sweeten, so be careful with it.
i slice fresh fruit into my morning porridge, i use applesauce and blended banana in baking, and i use dried fruits like dates and raisins in anything from oatmeal to cookies to coleslaw.
it is a  processed product, but overall it has a lot going for it.
so there you go, fruit is my best sweetener.
maple syrup is another liquid one, and when i talk about a maple syrup,  i’m talking about like the pure stuff not the maple flavoured pancake  syrups.
stevia also comes as a liquid extract, and that’s
and cactus isn’t really sweet on its own
but if you want to, the liquid is okay as well.
you  wanna be getting as close to whole as possible.
so stevia is best when if you use it in the whole leaf form, so that would be, it comes as green leaves that look pretty much like tea leaf and you’ll see them in some tea bags, if you look in the ingredients sometimes.
so, i think fruit, sucanat, stevia, brown rice syrup, molasses and maple syrup are the best sweeteners.
it's not the best sweetener because it  does give a kick to your blood sugar levels, but it's also not the worst and  isn't refined too much.
unrefined sugar  looks like grains of sand, not like crystals.
and it’s not actually a sugar, it’s sweetens
it's a  really mild flavor, and will add a low level of sweetness to whatever you're  making.
the sugar is okay because it’s the-
there’s especially one brand of tea i forget which one it is now
the white powder is a refined form, and isn't as good  for you.
it’s a good idea to try to minimize the use of sweeteners in general, but if you have a sweet tooth like me, choosing good ones lets you give in without throwing off your healthy eating plan.
it's a really mild flavor, and will add a low level of sweetness to whatever you're making.
the best sweeteners are the ones that are as close to whole as  possible, don't cause too much of a blood sugar swing and still taste good.
so, i’m gonna go over my top ones but first thing i just wanna say  that whenever you’re using sweeteners the best idea is to minimize how  much you’re using.
not-the-best sweeteners there are a couple of sweeteners that i don't use, and because they  sometimes get included in lists of 'healthy' sweeteners, i wanted to briefly  mention why i don’t choose them.
okay they used them, the green leaf to extract.
it is processed, but not so much that it loses all of its nutrients.
today i wanna talked about the best sweeteners to use.
same thing with muscovado sugar looks like just brown sugar and turbinado  as well, it’s darker so there’s more molasses in there but  it’s still crystals.
so my main example would be apple sauce, great to use in baking and you wanna go for the unsweetened kind because fruit has the natural sugars in it already.
you wanna be getting as close to whole as possible.
so you know they have to be processing it a lot in order to make it sweet
and i store it in my  apple sugar jar once i finished my apple sauce and if you can see there it  looks like little grains of sand.
so again, you wanna look for this grainy looking,  grainy looking sugar.
those aren’t, those aren’t maple syrup.
there are unrefined versions of cane, palm and other sugars.
any time you see a crystallized sugar, it's been refined and then formed  into a crystal.
stevia is the option, the natural option to use if you want a no calorie, no blood sugar or fat sweetener.
agave nectar is a syrup that comes from cactus.
dried fruits and baking so raisins, things like that can sweeten things up really nicely.
the best is to use the leaf, the powdered leaf or a liquid extract.
let  me know by leaving a comment below.
it's not the best sweetener because it does give a kick to your blood sugar levels, but it's also not the worst and isn't refined too much.
the healthiest flavored water - which is the best?
and then they also grind that up into a powder, if you wanna make sure  you’re looking for the green powder because it comes from the leaf,  where’s the white powder is somewhat the same as white sugar where things  have been taken away.
but they often use stevia.
so my top sweetener is fruit, i loved to use fresh fruit on top of my  morning porridge.
maple syrup is another liquid one, and when i talk about a maple syrup, i’m talking about like the pure stuff not the maple flavoured pancake syrups.
but when you look at something like brown sugar, one thing i learned that  was pretty surprising to me is that brown sugar is just white sugar same  refined white crystals which is a bit of molasses added back to them.
let me know by leaving a comment below.
stevia stevia is a leaf, which doesn't sound very much like a sweetener, but it's  actually even more potent than sugar.
so stevia is best when if you use it in the whole leaf form, so that would  be, it comes as green leaves that look pretty much like tea leaf and  you’ll see them in some tea bags, if you look in the ingredients  sometimes.
let  me know by leaving comment and i will see you guys next time.
all of the nutrients from the sugar are in the molasses, so  it's really high in things like iron, magnesium and b vitamins.
pure maple syrup i love the taste of maple syrup...
the best sweeteners are the ones that are as close to whole as possible, don't cause too much of a blood sugar swing and still taste good.
the white powder is a refined form, and isn't as good for you.
there’s especially one brand of tea i forget which one it is  now but they often use stevia.
the cool thing about stevia is that it doesn't affect blood sugar levels, so this is really great for diabetics and hypoglycemics.
and then they also grind that up into a powder, if you wanna make sure you’re looking for the green powder because it comes from the leaf, where’s the white powder is somewhat the same as white sugar where things have been taken away.
i’m talking about things like splenda, nutrasweet, sweet n low, all those things, they’re chemicals –so they’re- they’re not good.
it’s just, it’s a cane sugar so it’s just a juice from the cane, the middle of the cane just dried, where every time you see a crystal it’s been refined in some way.
be sure to look for the word 'unrefined', and at the shape of the sugar.
this is heather from healthyeatingstartshere.com.
stevia is the option, the natural option to use if you want a no calorie,  no blood sugar or fat sweetener.
you can find it in a few forms.
the best is to use the leaf, the powdered  leaf or a liquid extract.
some other sweeteners that i used so there are some liquids brown rice syrup is a good one.
some of them have been shown, some of them haven't, but with so many other good options try to steer clear.
splenda and other artificial sweeteners (nutrasweet, sweet n low, etc) are  chemicals, and may not add calories or raise your blood sugar, but will have  other negative effects.
the cool thing about stevia is that it  doesn't affect blood sugar levels, so this is really great for diabetics and  hypoglycemics.
i don’t know if you can see that very well on camera, but that’s just crystals that have been turned a little bit brown by molasses.
molasses as i mentioned, it has all of the nutrients from the sugar even though it is technically processed and a little bit refined because it comes off.
and it taste great in gingerbread cookies.
a couple that i don’t use and that often get thought of in the  healthy category, i just wanted to mention quickly, so agave syrup is very  highly processed they comes from a cactus.
sucanat (unrefined cane sugar) is one of the best sweeteners this transcription will have some mistakes because it is partially automated.
there are a couple of sweeteners that i don't use, and because they sometimes get included in lists of 'healthy' sweeteners, i wanted to briefly mention why i don’t choose them.
the pure stuff is okay
then if you want to use something other than a fruit, you can go for a few  options and the one i used most often is unrefined sugar
so while i like molasses okay, i don’t like brown sugar because  it’s mainly just the white part; and then there’s some other types  of refined sugars like this one is demerara.
view the  discussion thread.
so again, you wanna look for this grainy looking, grainy looking sugar.
stevia is one non-sugar, zero-calorie sweetener that's actually natural and isn't harmful to you.
and i store it in my apple sugar jar once i finished my apple sauce and if you can see there it looks like little grains of sand.
brown sugar is just white sugar with a bit of the molasses  added back to it.
in my  opinion, the sweeteners above that are much closer to their whole food state  are the better option.
sucanat (unrefined cane sugar) is one of the best sweeteners video transcription
a couple that i don’t use and that often get thought of in the healthy category, i just wanted to mention quickly, so agave syrup is very highly processed they comes from a cactus.
so that’s a little overview of what i used and my favourite ones.
the name on the one i buy is  sucanat, and wholesome sweeteners is a brand to look for at your grocery store.
and then pureed fruits are really good at mixing things when you’re doing some baking as well.
same thing with muscovado sugar looks like just brown sugar and turbinado as well, it’s darker so there’s more molasses in there but it’s still crystals.
gingerbread just  isn't the same without that molasses flavor.
it’s the good part;  it’s got a lot of iron, magnesium, stuff like that.
then if you want to use something other than a fruit, you can go for a few options and the one i used most often is unrefined sugar
i think the green powder is a better choice
this transcription will have some mistakes because it is partially  automated.
gingerbread just isn't the same without that molasses flavor.
so, i wanna hear from you guys and what your favourite sweeteners are?
so it’s  really great for diabetics or hypoglycaemic or people who just have blood sugar  fluctuation problems.
fat vs sugar for healthy weight loss - which is more fattening?
it is a processed product, but overall it has a lot going for it.
now, cactus is not  naturally sweet and the syrup has to be heavily refined to get it there.