we have become accustomed to consuming a  lot more than we actually need.
the savory short-crust pastry deliciously enhances the natural sweetness of the apples.
people have been eating natural forms of sugar since time immemorial.
bear in mind that for optimum health, all  sugary sweets and desserts should be an occasional treat and not an everyday  habit.
cut down on it wherever you can, especially when you make desserts or bake cookies and cakes.
however, sugar is  sugar; use it in small quantities.
ann's tips buy organic brown cane sugar, such as florida crystals, or turbinado sugar  for daily use instead of the more refined white sugars.
while it used to be an expensive commodity, these days sugar and it  vast array of substitutes are cheap.
when these carbs never show up, our bodies may just be left wanting more.
we have become accustomed to consuming a lot more than we actually need.
most of it is in the form of refined sugars or high-fructose corn syrup that can create a vicious cycle of spikes and troughs in the body’s blood glucose levels.
the more minimally refined varieties of sugar are a slightly  lesser evil.
turbinado and raw sugars are the extracted, evaporated, and  crystalized juice of the sugar cane plant—a natural and thereby slightly  less naughty source of sweetness.
artificial sweeteners are only a recent  development, and we have no way of knowing what kinds of long-term effects they  have on our bodies.
but pure sugar is rare in nature.
follow us on: twitter facebook youtube pound cake
while it used to be an expensive commodity, these days sugar and it vast array of substitutes are cheap.
people have been eating natural forms of  sugar since time immemorial.
when your tongue tastes something sweet, it sends a signal to your brain, alerting it of a carbohydrate load coming its way.
use the real thing;  just limit your use, and cut down on sugary treats.
bear in mind that for optimum health, all sugary sweets and desserts should be an occasional treat and not an everyday habit.
in many products, sugar has been replaced by highly processed high-fructose corn syrup, which is twice as sweet as sugar and can be difficult for the body to break down.
however, sugar is sugar; use it in small quantities.
you can also use honey, maple syrup, molasses, or agave, to sweeten food and  treats, all of which have trace vitamins and minerals.
you can also use honey, maple syrup, molasses, or agave, to sweeten food and treats, all of which have trace vitamins and minerals.
this can lead to  hyperactivity.
if you’re diabetic,  artificial sweeteners might be the way to go, but talk to your registered  dietician about your options.
even an infant knows the vast  difference between a drop of sugar and spinach.
sugar and other sweeteners have an overwhelming presence in all kinds of packaged foods from cookies to frozen peas and ketchup.
in many products, sugar has been replaced by highly processed  high-fructose corn syrup, which is twice as sweet as sugar and can be difficult  for the body to break down.
so what about all those zero calorie artificial sweeteners?
we recommend always reading food labels and ingredient lists to determine how much hidden sugar may be in your food, and what the source of the sweetness really is.
in our richmarble pound cake , for instance, you’ll find a little goes a long way.
if you’re diabetic, artificial sweeteners might be the way to go, but talk to your registered dietician about your options.
many traditional cake recipes don’t need all the  sugar they call for to come out well.
so what’s cfyl’s advice?
white sugar is so refined that it’s  100% sucrose, lacking the trace nutrients that less refined sugars still have.
we can’t seem to do without sugar.
even an infant knows the vast difference between a drop of sugar and spinach.
recipe tips always go easy with sugar when you cook.
at cfyl, we recommend using all sugars sparingly, whether refined white or  organic brown.
the more minimally refined varieties of sugar are a slightly lesser evil.
most of it is in the form of refined sugars or  high-fructose corn syrup that can create a vicious cycle of spikes and troughs  in the body’s blood glucose levels.
according to  the american cancer society and the national cancer institute, there is no  conclusive evidence that common sweeteners on the market today including  aspartame (equal), sucralose (splenda), saccharin, and acesulfame potassium  cause cancer, but they may have other negative effects.
at cfyl, we recommend using all sugars sparingly, whether refined white or organic brown.
in chemo | in radiation | nausea | post-treatment soups | serves: 4-6 | 20 - 30 min sign up to receive exclusive recipes and features from cook for your life.
sugar and other sweeteners have an overwhelming  presence in all kinds of packaged foods from cookies to frozen peas and  ketchup.
artificial sweeteners are only a recent development, and we have no way of knowing what kinds of long-term effects they have on our bodies.
see all copyright 2012 cook for your life!
this can lead to hyperactivity.
turbinado and raw sugars are the extracted, evaporated, and crystalized juice of the sugar cane plant—a natural and thereby slightly less naughty source of sweetness.
always go easy with sugar when you cook.
excess sweeteners have also been linked to other medical problems, including cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes.
according to the american cancer society and the national cancer institute, there is no conclusive evidence that common sweeteners on the market today including aspartame (equal), sucralose (splenda), saccharin, and acesulfame potassium cause cancer, but they may have other negative effects.
when these carbs never show up, our bodies may just be  left wanting more.
not a good reaction for those of us watching our waistline and heart health.
buy organic brown cane sugar, such as florida crystals, or turbinado sugar for daily use instead of the more refined white sugars.
for starters, try making tarts and pies with unsweetened crusts, as in ourapple pie .
web design by blue fountain media
even when we try to use sugar in moderation, it’s easy for it to slip into our diets unnoticed.
white sugar is so refined that it’s 100% sucrose, lacking the trace nutrients that less refined sugars still have.
for starters, try  making tarts and pies with unsweetened crusts, as in ourapple pie .
use the real thing; just limit your use, and cut down on sugary treats.
the savory short-crust pastry deliciously enhances the natural  sweetness of the apples.
follow us on: twitter facebook youtube main ingredient: eggsget cookin'!
the lesser (sweet) evil by cfyl staff we can’t seem to do without sugar.
when your tongue tastes  something sweet, it sends a signal to your brain, alerting it of a carbohydrate  load coming its way.
but pure sugar is rare in  nature.
even when we try to use sugar in moderation, it’s easy for it to slip  into our diets unnoticed.
email see our list of common ingredients you should always keep on your shelf!
many traditional cake recipes don’t need all the sugar they call for to come out well.
excess sweeteners have also been linked to other medical  problems, including cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes.
we recommend always reading food labels and  ingredient lists to determine how much hidden sugar may be in your food, and  what the source of the sweetness really is.
cut down on it wherever you can,  especially when you make desserts or bake cookies and cakes.
not a good reaction for those of us watching our waistline  and heart health.