since it is a liquid sweetener, it’s ideal for iced drinks.
if you’re sweeteningiced coffee or iced tea, try sweetening it before you chill it, or sweeten with liquid sweeteners, such as honey, agave nectar and simple syrup.
some people select honey as a sweetener for its  reputedhealth benefits.
simple syrups can be flavored easily with the addition of ingredients such as herbs or fruit during boiling.
different types of sugar have different flavor profiles.
here's an article with more information onhow to sweeten iced coffee/tea.
it’s also used  incafé con miel (“coffee with honey”).
if you prefer honey for health reasons, be sure not to boil it as you prepare your coffee/tea, as this decreases its efficacy.
they are best in strong-tasting coffees and teas.
corn syrup corn syrup (and high-fructose corn syrup) is commonly used as  sweeteners in “ready to drink” (bottled/canned) coffees and teas.
lindsey goodwin coffee / tea guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches liquid sweeteners clover honey rectangular prisms agave nectar honey honey artificial sweeteners explore coffee / tea must reads most popular - caffeine in coffee / tea - espresso drinks - best green tea types - best chai recipes - tea sandwich recipes
for example, brown  sugar has a deeper, richer flavor than refined sugar.
pair flavored syrups with  coffees and teas based on the flavor profiles of each.
as with sugar, different types of honey have different flavor profiles.
plain simple syrup has a neutral flavor that works well with most coffees and teas.
“sugar  syrups”) are simply solutions of sugar that has been boiled in water.
here are recipes forbasic simple syrup and ginger/brown sugar simple syrup.
some people prefer sugar  that is shaped, such as rock crystal sugar, which may come in rectangular  prisms or be attached to stirring sticks in a geode-like form.
there is some health controversy over the use of corn syrup as a sweetener and  whether or not products containing corn syrup should be labeled as  “natural.”
thesweetleaf brand is made from an extract of the sweetleaf plant and is generally considered to be a natural product.
if you’re sweeteningiced coffee or iced tea, try sweetening  it before you chill it, or sweeten with liquid sweeteners, such as honey, agave  nectar and simple syrup.
they tend to be more popular amongst calorie-counters and  people with diabetes or other sugar sensitivities that they are amongst the  general populous, in part because they often have an unpleasant aftertaste.
drinks- deciphering the local coffeehouse... - ethnic food trivia question - honey storage information.
molasses molasses has a bold, deep flavor that is  suited to brazilian, kona and colombian coffees.
if you find that a large dose of sweetener is as much a part of your morning beverage as the drink itself, try switching to a higher quality coffee or tea and reducing the amount of sugar you add.
pepsi and coca-cola/cargill have also launched their own stevia-based blends of stevia, which some say have a heavier, more cloying flavor.
pair flavored syrups with coffees and teas based on the flavor profiles of each.
a part of the new york times company.
stevia stevia is a newer sweetener on the market.
clover honey is the most popular type, in part because of its relatively neutral flavor profile.
it’s great with stronger teas  and many coffees.
artificial sweeteners artificial sweeteners, such assplenda, equal and sweet-n-low, are also used to sweeten coffee and tea.
many coffees can take on the bolder flavors of wildflower honey.
“sugar syrups”) are simply solutions of sugar that has been boiled in water.
- about.com - food & drink - coffee / tea coffee / tea search free coffee / tea newsletter!
plain simple syrup has a neutral flavor that works well with most coffees and  teas.
for a sweeter cuppa, most people simply add  whitesugar, but there are lots of ways to sweeten coffee and tea, such as honey, agave nectar, molasses, simple syrup and artificial sweeteners.
notes on sweetening coffee/tea most sweeteners are easiest to add to hot drinks.
it has a flavor that some find to be smooth, while some (notably supertasters) find the aftertaste to be bitter or licorice-like.
tupelo honey (pictured above) has a buttery, mellow, smooth flavor  that is exceptional for tea.
it has a flavor that some find to  be smooth, while some (notably supertasters) find the aftertaste to be bitter  or licorice-like.
stevia is best with bold-tasting coffees and teas.
simple/flavored syrups simple syrups (a.k.a.
if you find that a large dose of sweetener is as much a part of your  morning beverage as the drink itself, try switching to a higher quality coffee  or tea and reducing the amount of sugar you add.
simple syrups can be flavored easily with the addition of  ingredients such as herbs or fruit during boiling.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
sweeteners for coffee / tea - how to sweeten iced coffee / tea - types of sugar - honey for coffee / tea additives for coffee / tea - milk, sugar & more - dairy & dairy alternatives for coffee / tea - caramel sauce recipe for coffee more sweetener resources related articles - where to find local honey varietals - equal - splenda - natural sweeteners – eating healthy and natural sweeteners - honey in tea or coffee - coffee drinks & other coffee menu
by category - sweeteners - honey - sweet tea - coffee with sugar - agave nectar - preparation & recipes - coffee basics - tea basics - reviews - food recipes / pairings - advanced coffee - advanced tea - tisanes / herbal teas - caffeine in coffee / tea - coffee / tea & health - glossary of terms - history & culture - the beverage industry coffee / tea - about.com - food & drink - coffee / tea - preparation & recipes - milk, sugar & more - sweeteners - how to sweeten coffee & tea with sugar alternatives, stevia, honey, molasses, etc. also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - food & recipe database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
agave  nectar agave nectar is an up-and-coming natural sweetener.
artificial sweeteners artificial  sweeteners, such assplenda, equal and sweet-n-low, are also used to sweeten  coffee and tea.
for example, brown sugar has a deeper, richer flavor than refined sugar.
honey honey is a popular sweetener for tea and iced coffee/tea.
you may find that the flavor of the beverage stands on its own with little or no sweetener.
they tend to be more popular amongst calorie-counters and people with diabetes or other sugar sensitivities that they are amongst the general populous, in part because they often have an unpleasant aftertaste.
tupelo honey (pictured above) has a buttery, mellow, smooth flavor that is exceptional for tea.
sign up - coffee / tea - brewing basics - recipes - equipment & gifts discuss in my forum coffee / tea sweeteners how to sweeten coffee and tea by lindsey goodwin, about.com guide see more about: - sweeteners - honey - sweet tea - coffee with sugar - agave nectar rock sugar is a decorative form of sugar that is popular in coffee and tea gift sets.
some coffee shops offer different types or flavors of honey in small “sticks” (which are actually more like tubes).
marko goodwin the most common coffee and tea  additives aredairy and sweeteners.
as with many things, less is more when it comes to sweetening coffee and tea… at least if you care about your health!
many coffees can take on the bolder flavors of  wildflower honey.
this works especially well for coffee ortea smoothies, but doesn’t have to be anything so elaborate – lemon (which is sweet and tart) is commonly added to tea.
pepsi and coca-cola/cargill have also launched their  own stevia-based blends of stevia, which some say have a heavier, more cloying  flavor.
some coffee shops offer different types or flavors of honey in small  “sticks” (which are actually more like tubes).
see more about: - how much caffeine is in coffee, tea, cola & other drinks… - high tea vs. afternoon tea - the joy of soy - starbucks caffeine contents - chicory
notes on sweetening coffee/tea most sweeteners are easiest to add to  hot drinks.
agave nectar agave nectar is an up-and-coming natural sweetener.
it has a taste that is between honey and molasses.
if you prefer honey for health reasons, be sure not to  boil it as you prepare your coffee/tea, as this decreases its efficacy.
the most common coffee and tea additives aredairy and sweeteners.
thesweetleaf brand is made from an extract of the sweetleaf plant and is  generally considered to be a natural product.
this works  especially well for coffee ortea smoothies, but doesn’t have to be  anything so elaborate – lemon (which is sweet and tart) is commonly added  to tea.
it has a  taste that is between honey and molasses.
as with many things, less is more when it  comes to sweetening coffee and tea… at least if you care about your  health!
like honey and agave nectar,  it is a liquid sweetener, so it works well with iced or chilled beverages.
it’s also used incafé con miel (“coffee with honey”).
here's an article with more information onhow to  sweeten iced coffee/tea.
it’s great with stronger teas and many coffees.
some people select honey as a sweetener for its reputedhealth benefits.
here are recipes forbasic  simple syrup and ginger/brown sugar simple syrup.
coffee with sugar agave nectar rock sugar is a decorative form of sugar that is popular in coffee and tea  gift sets.
fruit whether it’s in juice, nectar or pureed form,  fruit can be a flavorful and natural way to sweeten coffee and tea.
there is some health controversy over the use of corn syrup as a sweetener and whether or not products containing corn syrup should be labeled as “natural.”
(here's a video on how to make your ownrock candy sugar crystals.)
molasses molasses has a bold, deep flavor that is suited to brazilian, kona and colombian coffees.
you may find that the flavor  of the beverage stands on its own with little or no sweetener.
for a sweeter cuppa, most people simply add whitesugar, but there are lots of ways to sweeten coffee and tea, such as honey, agave nectar, molasses, simple syrup and artificial sweeteners.
sugar sugar is the most common sweetener for hot coffee and tea.
corn syrup corn syrup (and high-fructose corn syrup) is commonly used as sweeteners in “ready to drink” (bottled/canned) coffees and teas.
clover honey is  the most popular type, in part because of its relatively neutral flavor  profile.
if you’re interested in exploring more unusual sugar profiles, try indianjaggery – it’s great withmasala chai or coffee.
as with  sugar, different types of honey have different flavor profiles.
some people prefer sugar that is shaped, such as rock crystal sugar, which may come in rectangular prisms or be attached to stirring sticks in a geode-like form.
since it is a liquid sweetener, it’s ideal for iced  drinks.
like honey and agave nectar, it is a liquid sweetener, so it works well with iced or chilled beverages.
sweeteners for coffee / tea how to sweeten iced coffee / tea types of sugar
if you’re  interested in exploring more unusual sugar profiles, try indianjaggery –  it’s great withmasala chai or coffee.
(here's a video  on how to make your ownrock candy sugar crystals.)
fruit whether it’s in juice, nectar or pureed form, fruit can be a flavorful and natural way to sweeten coffee and tea.