read more... why do people crave sweetness?
read more... score big with low calorie super bowl recipes; sideline unhealthy snacks  on game day learn more about
via e-mail january 27, 1999the food and drug administration's  center for food safety and applied nutrition has recently received numerous  requests for...
in 1981 aspartame was approved for use in tabletop sweeteners and...
it is not intended to provide medical advice on personal health matters or to guide treatment — which is only appropriately done by a qualified health professional.
the healthy way - day 2 - day 3 - day 4 - day 5 - day 6 - day 7 - healthy substitutions - browse recipes - articles and video - video - research: people using sugar free foods to be more aware of diet and nutrition - dieters using low calorie sweeteners have better chance of reaching goals - dr. madeleine sigman-grant: reduced calorie foods and impact on diet awareness - reducing calories through low calorie sweeteners improves quality of diet - study: higher nutrient intake for low calorie dieters - journal of food science study finds people consuming fewer calories have better quality diets - myths about holiday weight gain - winning by losing - blog - tips and tricks to help your resolutions stick - news articles - heavy allegations: a link between low calorie sweeteners and weight gain?
permission to reprint information in whole or in part contained on this site is granted, provided customary credit is given.
- from bench to broadcast putting research into perspective webinar 1 cpe - stevia webinar 1 cpe - myth of the month - myth of the month - "fall" into weight loss - americans increasingly health conscious - calorie control council cdr accredited cpe provider!
low calorie sweeteners calorie control council announces the  publication of “alternative sweeteners” book atlanta (oct. 27,  2011) – the calorie control council has announced the publication of  “alternative sweeteners, fourth edition,” the updated textbook  edited by well-known sweetener...
in 1981 aspartame was approved for use in tabletop  sweeteners and...
read more... low-calorie sweeteners - aspartame provided by the food and drug administration
acesulfame k has a... read more... sucralose sucralose is the only non-caloric sweetener made from sugar.
sucralose is derived from sugar through a multi-step patented manufacturing process that selectively substitutes three atoms of chlorine...
the components of neotame are joined together to form a... read more... aspartame aspartame is one of the most thoroughly studied food ingredients ever, with more than 200 scientific studies confirming its safety.
it is approximately 200 times sweeter than sucrose.
- obesity in the workplace costs employers billions - statements by dr. oz not supported by scientific research - what the experts say about flawed diet soda and stroke study - pandamonium over low calorie sweeteners - fda supports safety of select steviol glycosides - feature articles - less fat often results in fewer calories!
read more... low-calorie sweeteners - aspartame provided by the food and drug  administration
q&a - fiber does your body good - forget fad diets - glossary of fat replacers - how to eat lower-carb smart and safe - ingredient spotlight: olestra - internet myths about aspartame - lograr perdiendo - low and reduced calorie sweeteners: hot topics from a to z - low-calorie sweeteners - aspartame - low-calorie sweeteners - q&a - low-fat benefits - low-fat confectionery to aid polyol market - make food labels work for you - many young women may misjudge their weight - most popular reduced-fat products - myth of the month - obama backs saccharin safety - october myth of the month - polyols q&a - popular holiday dishes - regulatory - restricting calories: fountain of youth?
the components of neotame are joined together  to form a... read more... aspartame aspartame is one of the most  thoroughly studied food ingredients ever, with more than 200 scientific studies  confirming its safety.
read more... neotame neotame is a no-calorie  sweetener, which is a derivative of the dipeptide composed of the amino acids,  aspartic acid and phenylalanine.
this season - obesity overtakes smoking - spring into shape before summer - a heart-healthy valentines day - myth of the month - calories still count - let's get physical - en español - informacion para fijar metas para mejorar el estado fisico - las calorias si cuentan - press room - press releases - calorie control council predicts 2011
acesulfame k has  a... read more... sucralose sucralose is the only non-caloric  sweetener made from sugar.
for feedback or more information, visitabout calorie control council important notice: this site is designed primarily as an educational resource.
calories still count - "fall" into fitness
read  more... acesulfame k discovered in 1967 by hoechst ag, acesulfame  potassium (also known as acesulfame k) is a high-intensity, non-caloric  sweetener.
read more... saccharin.org expanded to provide consumers and health professionals with objective, scientific information atlanta (march 8, 2006) - consumers and health professionals can find accurate and reliable information about saccharin on the web via www.saccharin.org.
read more... saccharin.org expanded to provide  consumers and health professionals with objective, scientific information atlanta (march 8, 2006) - consumers and health professionals can find accurate  and reliable information about saccharin on the web via  www.saccharin.org.
site search: - home - visit caloriescount.com - - site map - sweeteners and lite - sugar substitutes - acesulfame k - advantame - aspartame - cyclamate - monk fruit - neotame - saccharin - stevia - sucralose - other sweeteners - alitame - tagatose - trehalose - prospective sweeteners - polyols - erythritol - hsh - isomalt - lactitol - maltitol - mannitol - sorbitol - xylitol - fiber - fructose - fat replacers - companies and products - multiple ingredient approach - healthy weight tool kit - food calorie calculator - bmi calculator - online food diary - diet assessment calorie calculator - get moving calculator - health professional library - cpe corner - polyols presentation - white papers and publications - downloadable educational brochures - free educational resources - council research statements - expert opinions - what the experts say about artificial sweeteners - aspartame - saccharin - acesulfame k - recipes for a healthy lifestyle - 2000 calories a day
via e-mail january 27, 1999the food and drug administration's center for food safety and applied nutrition has recently received numerous requests for...
- commercials promote childhood obesity - converting calories to grams of fat - cost of obesity approaching $300 billion a year - cut the fat in half - holiday menu - de-bunking the myth: "fit and fat" is not what you think - diabetes to triple in u.s. by 2050 - european food safety authority reconfirms safety of low-calorie sweeteners - fda approves use of olean in popcorn - fat replacers
the new and improved saccharin web site...
trends - calorie control council predicts top 5 trends in dieting and healthy eating in 2012
read more... related articles learn more about - score big with low calorie super bowl recipes; sideline unhealthy snacks on game day rss feeds - sugar substitutes - reduced calorie sweeteners - weight management copyright © calorie control council.
- start obesity prevention in the cradle - studies show obesity rates no longer expanding - study identifies foods that promote weight maintenance - study shows maltitol has good digestive tolerance - sugary foods linked to heart attack risk - surgeon general’s report: sedentary lifestyle hazardous to your health - the increasing variety of reduced-fat products with fat replacers - tips for setting your fitness goals - tips to scare off halloween pounds - unscientific claims from dr. mercola regarding sucralose - walking more daily can help ward off diabetes - what the labels mean - why people use reduced-fat products - myth of the month-1 - even a little exercise can help improve heart health - stuff the bird, not yourself - watching your carb intake?
the new and improved saccharin web site... read more... acesulfame k discovered in 1967 by hoechst ag, acesulfame potassium (also known as acesulfame k) is a high-intensity, non-caloric sweetener.
read more... low-calorie sweeteners - q&a why do people crave sweetness?
sucralose is derived from sugar through a multi-step  patented manufacturing process that selectively substitutes three atoms of  chlorine...
- diet soda stroke study - extensive research demonstrates that fructose does not increase food intake or impact body weight - research shows sugar substitutes reduce caloric intake without overeating or hunger - score healthy super bowl recipes - survey: majority of americans weight conscious - research: diet soft drinks not linked to type 2 diabetes - score big with low calorie super bowl recipes - commentary - trends and statistics - other great resources - faqs sugar substitutes - acesulfame k - advantame - aspartame - cyclamate - monk fruit - neotame - saccharin - stevia - sucralose - other sweeteners polyols - erythritol - hsh - isomalt - lactitol - maltitol - mannitol - sorbitol - xylitol - fiber - fructose - fat replacers - companies and products - multiple ingredient approach - sweeteners and lite - healthy weight tool kit - health professional library - recipes for a healthy lifestyle - articles and video - press room - other great resources - faqs low calorie sweeteners calorie control council announces the publication of “alternative sweeteners” book atlanta (oct. 27, 2011) – the calorie control council has announced the publication of “alternative sweeteners, fourth edition,” the updated textbook edited by well-known sweetener...
read more... neotame neotame is a no-calorie sweetener, which is a derivative of the dipeptide composed of the amino acids, aspartic acid and phenylalanine.