this is great for welcoming guests from a road trip, so pick out something special.
it’s nice to have guests share and enjoy their traditional dish at your table – just like the pilgrims!
here’s some food for thought: all or nothing thinking is a way to let  yourself off the hook.
stevia leaves are 250-400 times sweeter than sugar and perfect for helping anyone wean themselves away of refined white sugar and artificial sweeteners.
have you ever purchased the foods that someone claimed to be “guaranteed to make you lose weight” only to see the scale go up instead of down?
repackage cookies in  single-portion bags (or pay more for individually portioned snacks); wrap  leftover slices of lasagna individually in foil and freeze.
let us weigh and measure you at pilates 1901 to find out your current body composition (exactly how much of you is fat and how much is not) and set you up with areal life nutrition and exercise programguaranteed to get you results!
shoot for: at least one cup of low-calorie, low-sodium vegetable soup every day!
if the ingredients list to your favorite cereal is more complicated than your college organic chemistry final, chances are you should stay away from it at all costs.
mint soothes your stomach, and honey  and fructose (fruit sugar) help the body metabolize alcohol faster.
: after you wash your face,  lock in some moisture – try any of dermadoctor’s kp duty.
well, i assure you it’s no coincidence.
top with another slice of bread (optional).
antioxidants help improve blood flow, which can help  muscles contract more efficiently.
if you want to have your fruitcake and eat it, too, try simply controlling  portions.
have all your meals in a designated place without distractions (i.e., not  in front of the tv or at your desk in front of your computer).
be sure to enter to win at the door!
we’re located on the corner of 43rd and state line just west of the plaza.
launder and press tablecloths and napkins.
you’ll see the puffyness decrease and look more awake.
it sounds trite, but every day truly is a new beginning.
why is this important in your efforts tolose fat?
start now and avoid the stress of last minute holiday prep!
“less” can really yeild ‘more” killer results!
no unrealistic and unhealthy diet scheme is ever going to get you looking and feeling the way you have been wanting to look and feel for so long.
plan for the occasional treat.
take it easy on yourself as you learn how to be a new, improved, healthier you.
lisa’s love for yoga extends across many styles rooting with her beginning studies with iyengar yoga evolving into the flowing styles of vinyasa and ashtanga yoga.
so we serve food buffet style and have everyone sit at a long thanksgiving table we create from lining up smaller tables – it runs from the dining room to the living room!)
we like them because they keep our hands out of the cookie jar.
steer clear opt for pale spirits (vodka,  white wine, gin) over red wine, bourbon and whiskey.
if you really want a drink or two a day, carefully study a calorie counter guide.
after that, you will probably be making sly glances at the vending machine in the corner of the pub and checking through your loose change.
drinking lowered my resistance to food cravings and i gave into them over time.
by being mindful of what is going into your body, you are gaining power over all the little daily decisions that add up to huge results!
stevia is a naturally sweet plant native to paraguay that is 30 times sweeter than sugar in its unprocessed form.
better bet: stick to 1 cup of cider, then switch to  seltzer with lime.
so don’t think just because you  made less-than-ideal choices today, you can’t start over tomorrow.
translated, this means that seafood may help slow digestion and prevent cravings.
it inhibits  prostaglandin, a pain messenger linked to increased hangover severity.
the following ten mistakes from nutrition expert isabele de los rios are preventing millions of people from finally enjoying the body they’re dreaming of.
because they were allowing their bodies to enter a state of “ketosis” which does cause people to lose weight but also quickly lands them in the hospital.
the first place winner will win a free beach trip to show off her new bikini body.
step two: give in now and then severely limiting your food intake or completely cutting out your favorite  foods sets you up for a binge.
and the negative side effects are just as bad as drugs, if not worse.
that kind of “black and white” thinking  can make your weight-loss efforts much more difficult and may even prevent you  from losing weight at all.
spread mustard on toast.
but before bed you enjoyed a few more.
it also causes blood flow to be directed away from your skin and to your vital organs, so your skin has poorer circulation.
for more information on pilates 1901 and our pilates fat loss formula, upload information here.
yes, nuts of  all kinds are full of heart-healthy fats and the various types provide good  amounts of other nutrients too (e.g., calcium, folate, selenium, vitamin e).
have a trick or two up your sleeve?
but what makes almonds most interesting is their ability to block  calories.
(keep hunger at bay with these yummy snacks in 100-, 150-, 200- and 250-calorie increments.)
well if you lived in asia you would quickly see that most asians eat soy in small quantities and in the form of old fashioned fermented soy (such as miso, tempeh, natto, shoyu and tamari) not the processed, toxic soy that is used in so many vegetarian type products and weight loss products on the market today.
set a weekly goal to burn 1,000 calories through “programmed” exercise—such as our hit classes, bootcamp and cardio tramp workouts.
if you look at your weight-loss efforts as something you’re only  doing “for now,” those new, healthy changes won’t be  permanent.
this event is going to be a blast, as usual, so bring your friends and family-
the caffeine makes you feel less tipsy than you are, so you may not realize when you’ve hit your limit.
“a large apple has 5 grams of fiber, but it’s also nearly  85 percent water, which helps you feel full,” explains elisa zied, rd,  author ofso what can i eat?!
the same goes for  your snacks at home: stash the chips inside a cupboard and keep the apples out  on the counter.
most leafy greens are also a  good source of calcium, an essential ingredient for muscle contraction.
we are looking forward to the celebration so be there on saturday, april 23rd!
there are thousands health foods that contain this toxic oil.
wonderful sources of protein are grass fed meats, free range poultry, organic eggs, wild fish, and organic raw nuts.
eat slowly, stopping to put your fork down between bites, feeling yourself becoming fuller.
yes, artificial sweeteners cause weight gain by disrupting your body’s natural hormones.
shoot for: at least half a cup daily, or about 30  calories’ worth.
wild salmon,  though pricey, contains more omega-3 fatty acids than farm-raised.
berries most are loaded with fiber, every dieter’s best friend.
eat the bulk of your caloric intake in a large heavy meal, filled with complex carbohydrates in the evening 3.
some lucky guest is going to win $250 pilates1901 gift certificate just for coming!
we will be closed friday and saturday, dec 24th and 25th for  christmas
they contain cysteine, a substance that breaks down acetaldehyde, a hangover-causing toxin in alcohol.
if you want to have your fruitcake and eat it, too, try simply controlling portions.
dehydration (a side effect of alcohol, a diuretic) reduces the liquid around blood cells, making your brain shrivel and leading to headaches, dizziness and nausea.
they contain cysteine, a substance that breaks down  acetaldehyde, a hangover-causing toxin in alcohol.
to digest food, your body closes the valve into the small intestine, where alcohol is most quickly absorbed, so you’re less likely to get buzzed.
author:admin we all  have a not-so-forgiving little black dress to get into for new  year’s eve.
skip breakfast and eat very little all day long 2.
quinoa never heard of it?
few of us can stick to a diet plan that restricts entire food groups or  relies on one type of food — such as freeze-dried, pre-prepared meals  — as its mainstay.
add broccoli and scallions.
eat 5-7 well portioned meals each day and you will see your body burn fat faster than you can say “sumo wrestler.”
better bet: if you’re just eating to eat (not that i advocate that… but it happens), go for the vegetables, unadorned.
i’ve known girls to drink rum and diet coke in the misguided belief that the diet coke is saving them enough calories to justify the sugar saturated, calorie laden rum component.
preheat oven to 375°f.
rewards don’t  have to cost a dime — they can be as simple as allowing yourself time to  read a chapter of a favorite author or enjoying a long bath.
check out this post from eating well magazine, because knowledge is power!
but you can still get your gift certificates through dec 31st!
exercise is equally important.
master mixing diet soda empties out of your  stomach more quickly than regular, so you’ll get woozy faster if you use  it.
if you like the healthy treats that sometimes show up at holiday parties, that’s great!
even some energy sports bars and shakes are loaded up with hydrogenated oils and many other toxic preservatives.
surprising calorie bomb: cheese and crackers.
… try these great tips!
believe me, i’ve been there: go  on a diet that requires you to eat foods you don’t like and you will  eventuallydread every meal.
better bet: go ahead and have one small serving of a spiced-nut mix that feels more like a treat.
quinoa’s nutty flavor and crunchy-yet-chewy texture are like a cross between whole wheat couscous and short-grain brown rice.
these uber-healthy fats may help  promote fat burning by making your metabolism more efficient, according to  kleiner.
find the middle ground: somewhere between following that overly-strict diet and eating everything you want, there is a point at which you can be both happyand healthy.
january 13th, 2011 |  author:admin tired of that tube around your midsection?
i have never kept weight off when i did not give up drinking.
that means for every “standard” beer you drink, you could walk briskly for 10-15 minutes to negate the calories consumed or go without 100 calories of some other, more nutritious food or drink.
toss with dressing to coat.
you can’t erase last night’s binge, but youcan aim for a much healthier today!
shoot for: an ounce a day (about 23 almonds), with  approximately 160 calories.
december 28th, 2010 | author: admin all or nothing thinking can negatively  affect your weight-loss efforts in ways you don’t even realize.
one 7 ounce beer is around 100 calories.
tired of thanksgiving turkey?
acknowledging your achievements — no matter how insignificant they seem — with non-food rewards will help you stay motivated throughout your weight-loss journey.
there are many health foods on the market today that are causing people to gain weight, as well as making it near impossiblefor them to lose weight.
but if you’re trying to be festive with a couple cups of spiced  cider (240 calories), you’re doing just as much damage as you would if  you were having a glass of wine—from a calorie perspective anyway.
and in between now and then we have to survive a myriad of  holiday parties, each  one providing it’s own eating and drinking  challenges.
add wine, and increase heat to medium high.
beware: if you grab five  of those little 1-inch cubes, you’ve just housed 345 calories.
but if you try to do too much too soon, the changes will last only days.
it gets  rid of dryness and flakyness and repairs and heals your dry skin.
darker booze contains more congeners, chemicals that up inflammation in the body, intensifying your hangover.
there is nothing to stop you having one or even two alcoholic drinks a day if you want to.
eating fibrous carbohydrates like fruits and vegetables actually turns your body into a fat burning machine.
it would be impossible to pick up any diet or weight loss book without it saying somewhere “drink 8-10 cups of water each day.”
and in between now and then we have to survive a myriad of holiday parties, each one providing it’s own eating and drinking challenges.
your tactic for avoiding temptation may be to steer clear of all the  special treats and divert yourself with only healthy foods.
yes, eating regularly will help prevent you from feeling deprived and  hungry, but grazing at the holiday buffet can easily supply several  meal’s worth of calories.
in a small bowl, beat ricotta, egg, and pepper with a fork until well blended.
make three shopping lists: 9.
her classes are taught with the intention to influence personal growth while bringing the body back into balance through understanding ones body awareness.
you can lose weight and not give up alcohol in the process.
making an effort to be mindful no matter what you’re eating can help  break the tendency to binge, experts say.
eggs are highly  respected by dietitians because of their balance of essential amino acids  (protein building blocks used by your body to manufacture everything from  muscle fibers to brain chemicals).
the more stops you introduce in getting a food—such as needing to  open a package or having to thaw something frozen—the more opportunities  you have to ask, “am i really hungry?”
here’s 5 amazingly creative meal options: herbed turkey ragout with spaghetti 1/3 c minced carrot 1/3 c minced onion 1 tbsp olive oil 2 tsp crumbled dry sage leaves 1/2 tsp black pepper 1/4 tsp salt 1/4 c dry white wine 1 1/2 c (8 oz) finely chopped skinless roast turkey 3/4 c fat-free no salt added chicken broth 1/2 c reduced-sodium canned tomato puree 1/2 c 1% milk 3 tbsp chopped parsley 8 oz whole-wheat spaghetti 1.
other good choices: broth and bananas, which restore the sodium and potassium, respectively, you lost during the night’s frequent bathroom trips.
so, load up on that h2o!
it’s a great time of year to get the excess out of your closets!
researchers at the pennington biomedical research center found that when people ate eggs in the morning, they felt less hungry throughout the day than when breakfast consisted of complex carbohydrates like bagels.
at pilates1901 we know it works.
most people’s next question is then, “well what is left if i wanta little something sweet?”
alcohol suppresses the t cells the body needs to defend itself, leaving you vulnerable to germs at the bar, exacerbating hangover symptoms.
( i like a combo of healthy carbs, proteins and fats,  like a sliced steak salad or peanut butter and apple.)
on any  ordinary day, you’d know that cheese is a high-fat, high-cal  choice—but when those simple little cubes are sitting there amid all the  holiday treats, they start to look like a good choice.
there is power in accountability.
where do you find these omega 3’s?
salmon seafood, especially fatty fish like salmon, tuna, and mackerel, is an  excellent source of omega-3 fatty acids.
so avoid these forms of toxic soy at all costs.
of course you can save face, save calories and save all the misery by just practicing a little moderation… but just in case….
if you’d rather sample some of the special seasonal treats, just put two or three of the most delicious-looking hors d’oeuvres on your plate and enjoy.
so it is equally as important to eliminate any food that contains the above mentioned sweeteners as it is to eliminate sugar from your daily intake.
and try to add activity into  your everyday routines too.
stevia products are available in most local natural foods and healthfood stores.
remember the next time you think you’ll save a few extra calories by skipping breakfast, you’re really just sabotaging yourself and setting yourself up for irresistible cravings later in the day.
you and approximately hundreds of thousands of other people who have purchased pre-packaged“health” foods.
that’s why i went undercover to discover these super sleuth turkey recipes that are so good, your loved ones will never dream they’re eatingleftovers.
in a heavy pot, combine carrot, onion, oil, sage, pepper, and salt over medium heat.
the first way to avoid all or nothing thinking is to shake the idea that  losing weight is something you do “right” just temporarily and then  the work is done.
well this is exactly what you are doing when you drink any kind of soft drink, juice and most other drinks on the market today.
we’d like to say thank you for a fabulous 2010 by offering our clients and families an exceptional opportunity to continue their training in 2011 at discounted prices!
to make the day especially festive, we’ll have some healthy nibbles, a seasonal cocktail, and some extra fun vendors so you can shop til you drop!
twice a year, we offer this pilates based fat loss program and each time we are amazed by the fabulous efforts and results our clients make in changing not only their bodies, but their lives.
if that doesn’t hook you, consider this: seafood is an excellent source of ab-friendly protein.
and to make sure your skin isn’t looking too hungover… try these great tips!
yes, you have been scammed.
add a handful of fresh chopped fruit for flavor and extra fiber.
veggie soup researchers at pennsylvania state university found that people who ate broth-based (or low-fat cream-based) soups two times a day were more successful in losing weight than those who ate the same amount of calories in snack food.
check out my video with jill tupper, my friend and awesome life coach, who is joining our pff program this session!
this article by jennifer scott will help you understand the connection between weight-loss difficulties and this mind frame and provide steps on how to lose weight and avoid all or nothing thinking.
and seeing the big picture — that little slip-ups don’t count, but long-term changes do — helps keep things in perspective.
temptation becomes much less powerful when you know it is fleeting and can be quelled with less than you think.
but grab a couple of small handfuls and you’re easily getting a half cup—nearly 450 calories and 40 grams of fat!
our last year’s winner chose hawaii!
thanks all and see you then!
3.meanwhile, in a large pot, cook spaghetti for 2 minutes less than package directions indicate.
break or cut orange half into small chunks and place in a mixing bowl.
in grocery stores, stevia products are typically found in the health food aisle with other supplements.
add turkey, broth, tomato puree, and milk.
* source: fitness magazine posted  infat loss |
nix the alarm you may crash hard, but your  quality of shut-eye will be less than dreamy.
at each, include a little protein for additional staying power.
add oil and salt and pepper to taste.
these fats,called omega 3 essential fatty acids, are actually so critical to your body’s functioning, that it is very difficult to experience any weight loss without including them in your meal plan.
our new class schedule begins next monday!
post it to your facebook page and share the love!
have all your meals in a designated place without distractions (i.e., not in front of the tv or at your desk in front of your computer).
don’t assume that just because something is healthy it is also  low-cal.
and you’re staying away from the spiked punch for various reasons.
december 22nd, 2010 |
shoot for: an apple (or two) a day.
check out these top 10 tips from the party bluprintsblog.com 1.
posted in pilates 1901 |
reduce puffy eyes: while good old tea bags will do the trick, cold spoons will give you thataaah feeling.
you find them in salmon, walnuts, flax seeds and organic eggs.
a study published in  thejournal of agricultural and food chemistry found that the red  delicious, cortland, and northern spy varieties had the highest antioxidant  activity.
recording everything—the holiday cookie binge as well as the carrots and celery—makes you accountable for what you eat and can be incredibly motivating.
so maybe like me, you over indulged a bit during the holidays.
they’re also a good source  of magnesium, a mineral your body must have in order to produce energy, build  and maintain muscle tissue, and regulate blood sugar.
there’s nothing like community and shared experience to help you reach your goals.
acknowledging your  achievements — no matter how insignificant they seem — with  non-food rewards will help you stay motivated throughout your weight-loss  journey.
the size the authorities measure a standard drink in can look a bit of a lame joke to a seasoned and thirsty drinker.
if you keep off the booze through the week and let your guard down a bit for only one day on the weekend, it could work for you .
step one: get a life (change)!
sounds like a win, win to me.
almonds these delicious and versatile nuts contain filling protein and fiber, not  to mention vitamin e, a powerful antioxidant.
this is only partially true and the complete elimination of all fats from your diet is a big mistake.
boosting your fiber intake is one way to help prevent weight gain—or  even promote weight loss.
and its not just drinks that are loaded with sugar.
studies have shown that when people give up their daily “diet drink” (filled withaspartame) they quickly lose up to 10 pounds just by eliminating the consumption of this toxic sweetener.
shoot for: one egg a day, unless you have high blood  cholesterol, in which case you should check with your doctor first.
these folks did it in 12 short weeks!
shoot for: at least one cup of low-calorie, low-sodium  vegetable soup every day!
lightly coat a 12-by-8-inch baking dish with cooking spray.
and that is  true inevery aspect of life.
if you don’t have this discipline, your weight loss efforts will fail.
other good choices:  broth and bananas, which restore the sodium and potassium, respectively, you  lost during the night’s frequent bathroom trips.
if that doesn’t hook you,  consider this: seafood is an excellent source of ab-friendly protein.
share your holiday drinking tips with others – add it to the post below.
hydrate: first things first – drink water!
she is certified through the american council of exercise and also holds several certifications in group exercise, spinning and kickboxing.
kory jacobs- personal trainer, yogini and general butt kicker kory jacobs has been practicing yoga for six years and teaching for three.
go to bed after eating this heavy meal.
so the next time you think you don’t have time to cook, drive past the drive thru and into the grocery salad bar instead.
while some thought atkins was the best thing since sliced bread, others thought that fat was the root of all evil.
and then this morning … you polished off the package for breakfast.
expanding that “family” to include your friends at work or your workout facility is not only a nice idea, but an essential one.
what you eat—or “calories in”—is only one half of  the weight-loss equation.
the holidays are here and with them come a multitude of parties—some that we’re psyched about, some that we’re obligated to attend.
boosting your fiber intake is one way to help prevent weight gain—or even promote weight loss.
these ingredients are found in everything from shake powders, energy bars and veggie burgers to canned tuna.
it inhibits prostaglandin, a pain messenger linked to increased hangover severity.
use a small bowl for soup and a white-wine glass instead of a big red-wine glass.
questions?  call the studio at 913 499 7510 or email me,  tina@pilates1901.com posted in fat loss | 1 comment  »
until dec 31st, 2010, we are offering 20% off all pilates 1901 gift cards.
however, that’s the sad reality.
in addition to our fabulous vendors, we’re asking you to bring in your gently used workout and casual wear for our first everpilates 1901 swap and shop to benefit our favorite cause, save,inc. this is how it works: we all dig out all the perfectly great workout and casual wear that we don’t sport anymore and swap with each other so we get fun new things for nearly nothing!
artificial sweeteners are definitelynot the answer!
eat slowly,  stopping to put your fork down between bites, feeling yourself becoming fuller.
she has also attended a workshop with internationally known yogi pattabhi jois.
the problem is, it can also be unhealthy and downright unsexy too!
lisa uhl- famous yogini lisa began her practice of yoga over a decade ago and became an instant favorite when she started teaching in the kansas city area.
drinking alcohol dehydrates your body, causing your skin to lose its  firmness and dewy appearance.
keep a bag of prewashed  baby spinach in your fridge and toss a handful into soups, salads, pasta  dishes, stir-fries, and sandwiches.
alcohol suppresses the t cells the body needs to  defend itself, leaving you vulnerable to germs at the bar, exacerbating  hangover symptoms.
hanging near the crudité tray is a great way to keep calories in check—so long as you stay away from the ranch (or blue cheese) dressing, which delivers a devastating 150 calories and 16 grams of fat per two tablespoons.
there is no fat in alcohol, but the sugar can be a killer for your diet.
there’s never been a better time to lose that unwanted  belly fat and we can help you do it!
find out what you may be doing to sabotage your best fitness efforts!
how do you make sure that your party clothes fit?
decide on your signature cocktail.
it sounds quite feasible till the 3rd or 4th beer.
steer clear opt for pale spirits (vodka, white wine, gin) over red wine, bourbon and whiskey.
let’s get the hopeful, positive stuff over with before turning to the grim bits.
gently stir in garlic and oregano.
it’s an  office party and you’re staying away from the spiked punch for various  reasons.
so, allow yourself a small portion of something “bad” that you really love now and again instead of telling yourself it’s off-limits for good.
avoid aspirin, which can irritate your stomach, and ditto acetaminophen: it has to be metabolized by your liver, which is already working overtime from the alcohol.
the more fiber you eat — experts say that it’s best to get between 25 and 35 grams every day — the fewer calories you absorb from all the other stuff you put in your mouth.
if cookies are your downfall, it might be too tempting to keep in your  house—but you can go our for a really good one (great harvest bakery) or  pick some up on the way to a party so you don’t take them home.
so don’t think just because you made less-than-ideal choices today, you can’t start over tomorrow.
per serving: 274 cal, 7 g fat (1.6 g sat), 31 g carbs, 106 mg sodium, 3 g fiber, 23 g protein turkey-orange salad 1/2 navel orange 2 tsp extra-virgin olive oil 1 c mixed salad greens, packed 1/3 c (2 oz) skinless roast turkey chunks 2 thin slices red onion, quartered 1.
that’s because fiber traps food particles and shuttles them out of your system before they’re fully digested.
apples a 2003 study in the journal nutrition found that overweight women  who consumed three apples or pears a day for three months lost more weight than  their counterparts who were fed a similar diet with oat cookies instead of  fruits.
and when  you’re mindlessly munching as you’re mingling, those calories can  add up fast!
mat ii with tina, 930am cardio-tramp with rob and 10am bootcamp with miriam.
sorbitol, saccharin, aspartame and sucrolose are actually worse for you than sugar itself.
it’s for every person who wants to achieve a lean, slender and toned physique (did i just describe every person on the planet?)
*purchase a $1000 gift card for just $800!
try substituting altiplano gold brand  instant quinoa hot cereal (160 to 210 calories per packet), in chai almond and  spiced apple raisin, for oatmeal.
great in theory,  but not so perfect in practice.
they’re also a good source of magnesium, a mineral your body must have in order to produce energy, build and maintain muscle tissue, and regulate blood sugar.
master mixing diet soda empties out of your stomach more quickly than regular, so you’ll get woozy faster if you use it.
shoot for: one egg a day, unless you have high blood cholesterol, in which case you should check with your doctor first.
season liberally with pepper and set aside.
protein not only fuels your muscles, it also helps stabilize your blood sugar and prevent hunger.
don’t limit yourself to the usual suspects, like  raspberries, blueberries, and strawberries.
if you look at your weight-loss efforts as something you’re only doing “for now,” those new, healthy changes won’t be permanent.
the fact is, most people who successfully lose weight — and more importantly,keep that weight off — make healthy, permanent lifestyle changes such as getting regular exercise, consciously practicing portion control and finding ways to prevent emotional eating.
the 130 million americans who are overweight or obese.
avoid  aspirin, which can irritate your stomach, and ditto acetaminophen: it has to be  metabolized by your liver, which is already working overtime from the alcohol.
stay tuned for more info on our winter session of leaner stronger  sooner!
so before you head out to party, check out these surprisingly unhealthy  holiday calorie bombs and better bets to choose instead.
once you read their bios, you will understand why we chose them as our pilates fat loss formula judges.
for some, the idea of either doing things to “perfection” or not at  all may even keep them from losing weight altogether.
it has a more reasonable 50 calories and 3 grams of fat.
avoid energy drinks as mixers, too.
that’s why you must declare your intentions publicly and then enlist the support of your friends and loved ones.
“plus, it’s a simple way to get your vegetables,”  says susan kleiner, phd, rd, author of power eating (human kinetics, 2001).
take a few capsules with each meal to ensure you are getting your omega 3’s daily.
this article by jennifer  scott will help you understand the connection between weight-loss difficulties  and this mind frame and provide steps on how to lose weight and avoid all or  nothing thinking.
few of us can stick to a diet plan that restricts entire food groups or relies on one type of food — such as freeze-dried, pre-prepared meals — as its mainstay.
no comments » so called “healthy” holiday calorie bombs to avoid….
we like them because they keep our hands out  of the cookie jar.
decide what everyone is bringing and cross off some items on your list.
perhaps you’ve told someone about the studio – this is a great time to introduce them to what 1901 is all about!
* source: fitness magazine #1.
our most successful clients are the ones who take the time to write down what they are eating and drinking every day!
pronounced keen-wah, this whole grain contains 5 grams of fiber and 11 grams of protein per half cup.
we say nearly nothing because there is a$10 entry fee that goes to benefit save,inc for all swapper shoppers.
… for some  of us, quitting something just because we didn’t do it perfectly is an  easy escape route.
shoot for: an ounce a day (about 23 almonds), with approximately 160 calories.
when office workers were given candies in clear dishes to place on their desktops, they helped themselves to candy 71 percent more often than a similar group that was given the same candy in opaque dishes so the candy wasn’t visible, according to research out of cornell university.
post yours below so everyone can benefit!
what you eat—or “calories in”—is only one half of the weight-loss equation.
come and learn how you, like so many other women, can banish that fat forever and regain your youthful appearance!
well, the other job of your liver is to burn body fat and if it is too busy ridding youof toxic overload, it has no time (or energy) to get rid of your unwanted fat.
that mean’s they win twice- once for achieving their goal of fat loss and transformation- the 2nd for the trip!
if cookies are your downfall, it might be too tempting to keep in your house—but you can go our for a really good one (great harvest bakery) or pick some up on the way to a party so you don’t take them home.
at the buffet you must opt for a small plate,  raw stuff first, food that doesn’t touch or stack on the plate and one  and only one special treat.
it takes a village, after all!
or email tina@pilates1901.com for additional information!
many people actually mistake hunger for dehydration and eat tons more calories than they actually need when all they really needed to do was drink some water!
drain and return to pot.
december 13th, 2010 | author:  admin our 1901 holiday party!
have them—in moderation.
if your family is like mine, the option of leftovers (other than dressing and pie) is usually met with some resistance or even disdain!
this is always a shock to most people (especially die hard vegetarians) who have been falsely led to believe that soy is actually good for you.
if you consume more sugar than your body needs, your clever body will plan to park it somewhere in case you need it later.
darker booze contains more  congeners, chemicals that up inflammation in the body, intensifying your  hangover.
recent research showed that boosting fiber by 8 grams for every 1,000 calories consumed resulted in losing about 4 1/2 pounds over the course of 2 years.
that’s an incredible savings and your lucky recipients will be thrilled!
this *post, from kc’s best fat loss program, the pilates fat  loss formula, details the top 8 foods to eat to gid rid of that pooch!
place two spoons in your freezer for about ten minutes, then hold the back of them your eyes for about five minutes.
doing an exercise video a just twice this week is a triumph if you didn’t do it at all last week.
soup eaters also maintained, on average, a total weight loss of 16 pounds after  one year.
are you wondering what you are doing wrong or how you will ever be able to lose the weight you have been desperately trying to lose for so long?
dehydration (a side effect of alcohol, a diuretic) reduces the liquid around  blood cells, making your brain shrivel and leading to headaches, dizziness and  nausea.
if you can find them, add boysenberries, gooseberries, and black currants to the mix for excitement.
thank you to all of our participants and our spectacular judges!
an empty altoids tin will hold your daily dose perfectly.
whether you seek weight loss, muscle gain, strength and endurance, greater flexibility, sport-specific training, or nutritional guidance and information jill can help you accomplish your goal.
use a  small bowl for soup and a white-wine glass instead of a big red-wine glass.
don’t just think your goals, say them loud and say them proud!
weaning yourself off sugar and sugar containing products will cause a drastic and immediate change in your weight.
don’t just read this!
so, allow yourself a small portion of something  “bad” that you really love now and again instead of telling  yourself it’s off-limits for good.
stevia products are great for beverages, soft foods, and baking.
stayed tuned for great new fun stuff at pilates 1901 as we delve into 2012!
recording everything—the holiday cookie binge as well as the carrots  and celery—makes you accountable for what you eat and can be incredibly  motivating.
select the wine (4 – 5 glasses per bottle) and beer, and make sure you have enough glasses.
after all, you’re only human … a soon-to-be much lighter human!
apples also contain  quercetin, a compound shown to help fight certain cancers, reduce cholesterol  damage, and promote healthy lungs.
jill is the sole owner of excel wellness studio, which has been a long-time dream of hers.
declaring your intentions publicly is the only way to get real about owning your decision.
makeup: layer on mascara and line your upper lids to draw attention away from redness in the whites of your eyes.
= 1 to 1 ¾ days 8 to 12lbs.
if seafood’s not your  thing, you can get your omega-3′s from flaxseed (grind and sprinkle on  your cereal) or walnuts.
this is an incredible labor of love as each of them takes this job very seriously.
does that mean  it’s time to go off the rails the rest of the day just because you blew  it this morning?
don’t assume that just because something is healthy it is also low-cal.
doing an exercise video a just twice this week  is a triumph if you didn’t do it at all last week.
season with curry powder, salt, and pepper to taste.
the more  fiber you eat — experts say that it’s best to get between 25 and 35  grams every day — the fewer calories you absorb from all the other stuff  you put in your mouth.
our pilates fat loss formula has worked to give women just like you and me awesome results- results they had all but given up hope of achieving!
cerave is another product dr kunin recommends for winter skin.
add turkey and simmer just until it’s heated (about 3 minutes).
beware: if you grab five of those little 1-inch cubes, you’ve just housed 345 calories.
lots of foods that are packed with  antioxidants, vitamins and minerals are also full of calories.
an empty altoids tin will hold your daily dose  perfectly.
this is something i usually do not recommend, but in the effort to get real to get moving, i am suggesting youget on the scale.
we love fage  greek yogurt!
there are 3 things to include to make your breakfasts healthy: whole grains and lean protein to help you stay full right through until lunch, and some fruit for added fiber.
the first way to avoid all or nothing thinking is to shake the idea that losing weight is something you do “right” just temporarily and then the work is done.
if you still think that going on the next crash diet is the only way to lose weight than i have some bad news for you: you have a long life of yo-yo dieting ahead of you.
subconsciously you think: “oh, now i’ve screwed up.
the worst soy oil products are margarines and shortenings made from partially hydrogenated soybean oil containing dangerous trans fatty acids.
wild salmon, though pricey, contains more omega-3 fatty acids than farm-raised.
give up grazing (at the buffet)
if you intend to drink and diet, your alcohol consumption will be the square root of not very much at all.
upload your copy here!
it’s all-natural, contains zero calories, and has a zero glycemic index.
even if all health and nutrition ngurus don’t agree on all the same principles, they do all agree on one: water is the magic potion to ensure weight loss.
reduce heat to simmer and cook for 15 minutes.
one cup of spinach contains only about 40 calories, while a cup of broccoli has 55 calories and satisfies 20 percent of your day’s fiber requirement.
it gets rid of dryness and flakyness and repairs and heals your dry skin.
many times when people decide to give up sugar, they quickly resort to artificial sweeteners.
or put a small scoop of hummus on your plate.
questions?  call 913 499 7510!
weight watchers and lean cuisine meals and bars almost all contain hydrogenated oil.
swarms of people were flocking to his weight loss program as the next big revolution in weight loss.
if you like the healthy treats that sometimes show up at holiday  parties, that’s great!
if you’re consuming 2,000 calories per day, aim to increase your fiber by 16 grams.
does that mean it’s time to go off the rails the rest of the day just because you blew it this morning?
mash potatoes with flour in a bowl.
all of these result in that dry, dullness you see in the mirror.
upload information here.
sip wisely brew peppermint tea with honey or  pour a glass of 100 percent fruit juice.
leafy greens their cancer-preventing carotenoids won’t help shrink your waistline,  but their low calorie count definitely will.
so, you decided to follow that “give in” step last night and  allow yourself a cookie.
we want to reward those efforts so each session we have a huge pff celebration and awards party.
add a  small handful of crackers to that and you’re easily at 500 calories.
find the middle ground: somewhere between  following that overly-strict diet and eating everything you want, there is a  point at which you can be both happyand healthy.
to digest food, your  body closes the valve into the small intestine, where alcohol is most quickly  absorbed, so you’re less likely to get buzzed.
while good old tea bags will  do the trick, cold spoons will give you thataaah feeling.
sleep late and you just might bypass any post-party pain.
making any food off-limits just increases its allure: you can’t avoid a trigger food your whole life, but you can learn how to eat the foods you binge on in moderation.
shoot for: three servings daily.
the task is difficult and we appreciate them for their service.
decide on sit down or buffet or combo ( we always have 20+ guests, but love to have everyone gathered at one table.
we have a few spots left!
shoot for: one to three cups a day of low-fat or fat-free  yogurt.
and, if i feel myself waiver, i just take a hard look at my naked butt in the shower.
we will be choosing 3 lucky winners that day!
better bet: go ahead and have one small serving of a  spiced-nut mix that feels more like a treat.
it  sounds trite, but every day truly is a new beginning.
a thin body is a body in balance.
self care requires a moment between stimulus and response.
here are some tips for getting it under control.
making an effort to be mindful no matter what you’re eating can help break the tendency to binge, experts say.
*purchase a $100 gift card for just $80!
similarly, gin and tonic has a sneaky number of calories but a lot of these are in the tonic water.
but grab a couple of small handfuls and you’re easily getting a half  cup—nearly 450 calories and 40 grams of fat!
this strategy has been working for sumo wrestlers for years.
research indicates that the composition of their cell walls may help reduce the absorption of all of their fat, making them an extra-lean nut.
choose unsweetened yogurt that contains live active cultures.
berries  (and other fruits) are also high in antioxidants, which not only help protect  you from chronic diseases like cancer but may also help you get more results  from your workouts.
posted in  fat loss |
we all donate $10 to save,inc – we swap….
drinking alcohol dehydrates your body, causing your skin to lose its firmness and dewy appearance.
and when you’re mindlessly munching as you’re mingling, those calories can add up fast!
or put  a small scoop of hummus on your plate.
mint soothes your stomach, and honey and fructose (fruit sugar) help the body metabolize alcohol faster.
at the buffet you must opt for a small plate, raw stuff first, food that doesn’t touch or stack on the plate and one and only one special treat.
the probiotic bacteria in most yogurts  help keep your digestive system healthy, which translates into a lower  incidence of gas, bloating, and constipation, which can keep your tummy looking  flat.
for some, the idea of either doing things to “perfection” or not at all may even keep them from losing weight altogether.
rewards don’t have to cost a dime — they can be as simple as allowing yourself time to read a chapter of a favorite author or enjoying a long bath.
and try to add activity into your everyday routines too.
most cereals and packaged foods have sugar (or some form of sugar) listed as the first or second ingredient (which means it is the ingredient in the highest quantity).
add potato mixture and milk, stirring constantly, until smooth.
hit the gym you can’t flush out  alcohol with exercise, but some people find that a workout makes them feel  better, probably due to the feel-good chemicals physical activity  releases.
coat one side of a 14-inch-long piece of aluminum foil with cooking spray.
(and they are supposed to be good for you?)
call the studio or ask your trainer for details today!
repackage cookies in single-portion bags (or pay more for individually portioned snacks); wrap leftover slices of lasagna individually in foil and freeze.
call 913 499 7510 for more information!
i’d rather have the wine!
these uber-healthy fats may help promote fat burning by making your metabolism more efficient, according to kleiner.
following a strict diet naturally lends itself to  giving in to all or nothing thinking: you’re either “on your  diet” or you’ve “blown your diet” and if you’ve  done the latter … well, you might as well quit altogether and eat  whatever you want, right?
you and millions of other people are completely confused about what constitutes good nutrition and what is really “bad”.
cook until wine evaporates (about 3 minutes).
check out this post from eating well magazine, because  knowledge is power!
first place goes to the best combo stats and essay- the other two awards are to honor exemplary physical changes (stats) and lifestyle transformation (essay).
top with the remaining noodles, ricotta mixture, spinach, turkey, tomatoes, and provolone.
antioxidants help improve blood flow, which can help muscles contract more efficiently.
the more stops you introduce in getting a food—such as needing to open a package or having to thaw something frozen—the more opportunities you have to ask, “am i really hungry?”
abstinence has meant that i always have my wits about me regarding my daily food choices and i am always motivated enough to exercise and enjoy my healthy lifestyle.
but what makes almonds most interesting is their ability to block calories.
( i like a combo of healthy carbs, proteins and fats, like a sliced steak salad or peanut butter and apple.)
i do miss a good red or a cold beer, but for me the trade off is worth the sacrifice.
can you imagine putting 8 oz of water in a cup and then adding 10 teaspoons of white sugar and then drinking it?
i’ve successfully lost a lot of weight using both strategies; moderation and total abstinence.
shoot for: one to three cups a day of low-fat or fat-free yogurt.
have a happy holiday everyone and watch out for those calorie bombs!
clean up when brushing your teeth, wash  your hands and face, too.
cook it as you would any other  grain (although some brands require rinsing).
people who are “on” sugar crave it all the time.
the worst of today’s soy protein products are soy protein isolate, soy protein concentrate, texturized vegetable protein and hydrolyzed vegetable protein.
but how effective your workouts are that matter.
hit the gym you can’t flush out alcohol with exercise, but some people find that a workout makes them feel better, probably due to the feel-good chemicals physical activity releases.
*purchase $500 gift card for just $400!
we will be closed friday and saturday, dec 24th and 25th for christmas
we guarantee you can lose all the weight you want, banish defeating cravings, and feel younger, more supple and energetic in years!
because even secret agents need a little help now and then….
thanksgiving is a time to enjoy!
if you can find them, add  boysenberries, gooseberries, and black currants to the mix for excitement.
here’s some food for thought: all or nothing thinking is a way to let yourself off the hook.
while this can be daunting at first, you will become accustomed to satisfying your craving with a small treat and you’ll learn when to say “when” and in turn feel more confident in your weight-loss efforts.
alcohol disrupts brain chemicals that regulate sleep, so you’ll spend less time in restorative sleep and more in light sleep.
enlist that help wherever you can find it and expect great returns.
yes, nuts of all kinds are full of heart-healthy fats and the various types provide good amounts of other nutrients too (e.g., calcium, folate, selenium, vitamin e).
so before you head out to party, check out these surprisingly unhealthy holiday calorie bombs and better bets to choose instead.
does this sound like the kind of long term health plan you should be following?
you still can’t make like an unrestrained doberman in the butcher shop, but you can have a few drinks to unwind and still manage to lose your unwanted fat.
red wine is actually promoted as a healthy drink in moderation, so you might want to have a glass with a meal.
but  perhaps more importantly (at least this time of year!), research shows that  people who are most successful at losing weight eat breakfast every day.
hydrate: first things first – drink  water!
so there you have it!
makeup: layer on mascara and line your upper  lids to draw attention away from redness in the whites of your eyes.
spread on half of the ricotta mixture, half the spinach, half the turkey, half the remaining tomatoes, and half the provolone.
not allowing yourself to make mistakes is the worst mistake you can make.
most leafy greens are also a good source of calcium, an essential ingredient for muscle contraction.
place two  spoons in your freezer for about ten minutes, then hold the back of them your  eyes for about five minutes.
that’s why, i am suggesting a little shock therapy to get the new year in gear….
to make differentiating between healthy natural food vs. non foods, just stay away from anything that contains ingredients on a labelthat you can’t pronounce.
it’s an office party
if you are going to drink alcohol and successfully diet at the same time, you need to be very aware of how many calories as well as standard drinks you are consuming.
better bet: if you truly want cheese and crackers, limit yourself to a few—say five crackers (about 80 calories) and top each with a very thin layer of a cheese spread (think: goat cheese or even cheese ball).
please share some of your tips for tackling turkey day in the space below !
this simple exercise in accountability makes all the difference in attitude and action.
invite guests to bring their family’s favorite side dishes.
the studio will be closed for classes wednesday evening so you can cook!
believe me, i’ve been there: go on a diet that requires you to eat foods you don’t like and you will eventuallydread every meal.
upload your holiday survival guide here
protein is not just for bodybuilders.
shoot for: two four-ounce servings per week.
sugar is also extremely addictive (causing feeling of highs and lows in the body similar to most drugs).
so, load up on  that h2o!
if seafood’s not your thing, you can get your omega-3′s from flaxseed (grind and sprinkle on your cereal) or walnuts.
when you get sick of spinach, reach for a bunch of arugula, broccoli rabe, or broccolini, a cross between broccoli and chinese kale.
transfer to a serving plate.
but the healthy fats found in wild fish and nuts are absolutely necessary for your body to function at optimum.
and that is true inevery aspect of life.
“a stable  blood-sugar level helps prevent cravings that can lead to overeating and weight  gain,” says david katz, md, a professor at the yale university school of  medicine.
we all have a not-so-forgiving little black dress to get into for new year’s eve.
breakfast gives me a much-needed energy boost for the rest of the day.
and what to eat instead… the holidays are here and with them come a multitude of parties—some  that we’re psyched about, some that we’re obligated to attend.
shoot for: at least one half-cup serving (a third of your  whole-grain requirements) per day.
lots of foods that are packed with antioxidants, vitamins and minerals are also full of calories.
make overeating a hassle.
of course you can save face, save calories and save all the misery by just  practicing a little moderation… but just in case….
no  comments » what to eat today for flatter abs tomorrow!
(honestly, how long do youreally think you  will be able to eat those for each meal?)
unfortunately, most people go the entire day without eating any protein at all.
it’s no wonder these are the same people that complain of a flabby body, fatigue, and hunger pangs that just won’t go away.
and then this  morning … you polished off the package for breakfast.
keep a bag of prewashed baby spinach in your fridge and toss a handful into soups, salads, pasta dishes, stir-fries, and sandwiches.
per serving: 224 cal, 11.4 g fat (2 g sat), 12 g carbs, 52 mg sodium, 3 g fiber, 19 g protein bonus:
and don’t miss our free metabolism 101 workhop on saturday,  jan 22nd at 1pm.
researchers at the pennington biomedical research center  found that when people ate eggs in the morning, they felt less hungry  throughout the day than when breakfast consisted of complex carbohydrates like  bagels.
but perhaps more importantly (at least this time of year!), research shows that people who are most successful at losing weight eat breakfast every day.
one cup of spinach contains only  about 40 calories, while a cup of broccoli has 55 calories and satisfies 20  percent of your day’s fiber requirement.
you can’t erase  last night’s binge, but youcan aim for a much healthier today!
try a moderate combo of cardio and core work!
not only are they overwhelmed and frustrated with all the conflicting information on the market today, they (and probably you) just don’t know where to begin.
while this can be daunting at first,  you will become accustomed to satisfying your craving with a small treat and  you’ll learn when to say “when” and in turn feel more  confident in your weight-loss efforts.
and to make sure your skin isn’t looking
bake for about 45 minutes or until bubbling.
but if you try to do too much too soon, the changes will last only  days.
chances are, like so many others, you are unwittingly sabotaging your results by following misguided or wrong advice!
surprising calorie bomb: spiced cider.
have h2o gulp a glass or two of water.
bring a friend -it’s free!
add ragout and toss intermittently for about 2 minutes so the pasta absorbs some of the sauce.
fuel first a liquid dinner is a bad plan;  eat before you go out.
the next time you think you have to stay up late to get it all done, remember that your lack of sleep undermines your resistance and ability to burn fat.
stayed tuned for more recipes from the leaner stronger sooner pilates fat loss program and pilates 1901.
kill the pain pick ibuprofen.
a fabulous variety of ab flattening  foods!
at each, include a little protein  for additional staying power.
step 5: celebrate small victories reward yourself for the small challenges you surmount.
lisa offers abalanced and inspiring flow that follows the rhythm of the breath, blending fluid movement with careful attention to alignment.
have you noticed how much fatter americans have gotten since more “weight loss” and “diet” foods have been put out on the market?
broil 3 inches from the heat source until the cheese melts (about 5 minutes).
there  are 3 things to include to make your breakfasts healthy: whole grains and lean  protein to help you stay full right through until lunch, and some fruit for  added fiber.
there’s an old saying: “no matter how far you’ve gone  down the wrong path, it’s never too late to turn back.”
don’t forget to print thegreat calorie saving recipes we’ve been sharing the past two weeks!
we’re hosting 3 fabulous thanksgiving morning workouts!
add greens, turkey, and onion.
the first few days may be a bit of a “detox” (just like a drug) but these symptoms quickly disappear (and so do the pounds!)
surprising calorie bomb: mixed nuts.
sleep late and you just might bypass any post-party  pain.
subconsciously you think: “oh, now i’ve  screwed up.
eating starchy carbs like rice and potatoes after a workout will also help you develop the lean, muscular physique most men and women are looking for.
or you could try keeping off the booze through the week and letting your guard down a bit for only one day on the weekend – it could work for you.
lisa is certified through the worldwide bikram yoga college of india and has also completed an ashtanga teacher training program with david swenson.
that ever-present sense of deprivation not only makes overeating a risk, it also makes life downright miserable.
almonds these delicious and versatile nuts contain filling protein and fiber, not to mention vitamin e, a powerful antioxidant.
spread 1/4 c tomatoes over bottom of baking dish and place 3 noodles, overlapping slightly, over sauce.
when you get sick of spinach, reach for a  bunch of arugula, broccoli rabe, or broccolini, a cross between broccoli and  chinese kale.
so, if a long life with a lean, healthy and vibrant body is what you are looking for, commit yourself right now to learning exactly how this is possible for you for the long term.
it has a more reasonable 50 calories and  3 grams of fat.
preferably someone who looks like him….
the caffeine makes you feel less tipsy  than you are, so you may not realize when you’ve hit your limit.
= 2 to 3 days 16 to 20lbs.
heat oil, curry powder, ginger, and salt to taste in a pot over medium-high heat for 1 minute or until sizzling.
all  of them, no doubt, will have a buffet table packed with delicious holiday  treats: mini quiches, swedish meatballs, the dozens of clever ways people  devise to stuff cream cheese into pastry puffs, elaborate chocolate confections  and spiced buttery baked goods.
low fat- high in protein!
studies suggest that feeling deprived—even if you are consuming  plenty of calories—can actually trigger overeating.
that’s because fiber traps food particles and  shuttles them out of your system before they’re fully digested.
sweep a highlighter or a shimmery bronzer over your cheekbones and along your  t-zone to give your skin a subtle glow.
in just a couple weeks, we will be celebrating the phenomenal achievements of our latest group of participants in ourpilates fat loss formula participants.
reduce heat and simmer mixture until broccoli is tender but crisp (about 3 minutes).
you bring your good stuff.
processed foods can truly be considered “non foods” since they resemble more of a science experiment than they do real food.
add a small handful of crackers to that and you’re easily at 500 calories.
she brings her good stuff.
per serving (using 1 slice of bread): 205 cal, 2.5 g fat (0.7 g sat), 19 g carbs, 511 mg sodium,3 g fiber, 25 g protein curried turkey soup 2 c peeled roasted sweet potatoes, cut into chunks 1 tbsp flour 1 tbsp canola oil 1 tsp curry powder 1 tsp grated fresh ginger 1 1/2 c finely chopped broccoli 1/2 c sliced scallion (white and green parts) 2 c 1% milk 1 1/2 c (8 oz) finely chopped skinless roast turkey hot sauce (optional) 1.
if you’re consuming 2,000  calories per day, aim to increase your fiber by 16 grams.
(if it doesn’t say wild, it’s farm-raised.)
try substituting altiplano gold brand instant quinoa hot cereal (160 to 210 calories per packet), in chai almond and spiced apple raisin, for oatmeal.
you knew there’d be a “but” didn’t you?
take it easy on yourself as you learn how to be a new, improved,  healthier you.
in a small bowl, toss cabbage, vinegar, salt to taste, and a pinch of sugar.
add a few dashes of hot sauce if desired.
there was a brief moment in time when i thought dr. robert atkins was going to beelected president.
click here to upload everything you need to know about kansas city’s best pilates fat loss program!
plan four “eating episodes” each day—three meals and a  snack—spaced at regular intervals to avoid going long stretches without  eating (which can also trigger overeating).
so, you decided to follow that “give in” step last night and allow yourself a cookie.
a study published in thejournal of agricultural and food chemistry found that the red delicious, cortland, and northern spy varieties had the highest antioxidant activity.
berries (and other fruits) are also high in antioxidants, which not only help protect you from chronic diseases like cancer but may also help you get more results from your workouts.
yes, you should eliminate unhealthy fats like hydrogenated oils (sorry, that means no french fries or doughnuts).
jill is also a figure competitor in the nanbf organization.
remember, it’s like one cheat meal per week, have 2 or 3 drinks on one day on the weekend as a regular treat – if you can stick to it.
at pilates 1901, we’re here to help you see that your fat loss and fitness goals can be realized quickly and easily forever – by making a few simple changes in your day.
a great alternative to sugar and artificial sweeteners is the supplement stevia.
drink a minimum of ½ of your bodyweight in ounces of filtered water each day to ensure that your body rids itself of the unwanted fat youare aiming to lose.
we love fage greek yogurt!
while it is parked, it will convert to fat.
making any food  off-limits just increases its allure: you can’t avoid a trigger food your  whole life, but you can learn how to eat the foods you binge on in moderation.
this year we will host it on saturday, april 23rd beginning at 1pm.
americans, truly, don’t realize how much sugar they are consuming in one day.
surprising calorie bomb: veggies with ranch dressing.
your tactic for avoiding temptation may be to steer clear of all the special treats and divert yourself with only healthy foods.
you must develop the habit of eating frequent meals all day long to develop the kind of warp speed metabolism that is going to allow you to get lean and stay lean (no sense in getting there without being able to maintain it right?)
shoot for: at least one half-cup serving (a third of your whole-grain requirements) per day.
there’s never been a better time to lose that unwanted belly fat and we can help you do it!
on any ordinary day, you’d know that cheese is a high-fat, high-cal choice—but when those simple little cubes are sitting there amid all the holiday treats, they start to look like a good choice.
a salad plate or kid-size plate is perfect for your main meal.
better bet: stick to 1 cup of cider, then switch to seltzer with lime.
a serious injury led her to study fitness and movement of the human body in college, and to delve into yoga as a way to rehabilitate her body.
which of these do you think is holding you back?
but if you’re trying to be festive with a couple cups of spiced cider (240 calories), you’re doing just as much damage as you would if you were having a glass of wine—from a calorie perspective anyway.
yes, eating regularly will help prevent you from feeling deprived and hungry, but grazing at the holiday buffet can easily supply several meal’s worth of calories.
call 913 499 7510 for more  information!
we’re not saying you have to punish your body- quite the contrary!
great in theory, but not so perfect in practice.
and just in case you think you’ll skip the cocktail and go for a nice cup of egg nog, remember an 8 ounce glass of that magic will cost you 350 calories, 191 of them as fat calories.
an australian study showed that overweight people who ate fish daily improved their glucose-insulin response.
look for it in health-food stores.
eggs you won’t find a more perfect protein source.
we are still taking enrollments due to the snow days last week.
yogurt people who get their calcium from yogurt rather than from other sources may  lose more weight around their midsection, according to a recent study published  in the international journal of obesity.
so, with that dress as my goal, these 10 tips from eating well, should help us slip into it dec 31st, “spanx free”  and  wear it happily.
start cracking “eggs are my go-to hangover cure.
repeat after me: keeping a food journal is not optional!
with hundreds of studies showing stevia is a safe alternative, it’s the next big thing.
pronounced keen-wah, this whole grain contains 5 grams  of fiber and 11 grams of protein per half cup.
contact us | terms of use | trademarks | privacy statement copyright © 2010 pilates 1901 - pilates in kansas city.
come and learn how you, like so many other women, can  banish that fat forever and regain your youthful appearance!
there is nothing to stop you having one or even two drinks a day if you want to.
you must have that moment to make good choices.
start cracking “eggs are my go-to  hangover cure.
not only will you be saving yourself from a myriad of health problems (like decreased thyroid function and hormone disruption) you will also see a dramatic loss in unwanted body fat.
“plus, it’s a simple way to get your vegetables,” says susan kleiner, phd, rd, author of power eating (human kinetics, 2001).
well, one of the nasty culprits causing millions ofpeople to pack on the pounds is hydrogenated oil.
“a large apple has 5 grams of fiber, but it’s also nearly 85 percent water, which helps you feel full,” explains elisa zied, rd, author ofso
recent research showed that boosting fiber by 8 grams  for every 1,000 calories consumed resulted in losing about 4 1/2 pounds over  the course of 2 years.
confirm number of guests.
keep your food diary!
it also causes blood flow to be directed away  from your skin and to your vital organs, so your skin has poorer circulation.
stir in parsley and simmer for 2 minutes.
sweep a highlighter or a shimmery bronzer over your cheekbones and along your t-zone to give your skin a subtle glow.
this *post, from kc’s best fat loss program, the pilates fat loss formula, details the top 8 foods to eat to gid rid of that pooch!
our special guests include: imagery boutique, dress quest and lots of bling from premier jewelry designs.
add a  handful of fresh chopped fruit for flavor and extra fiber.
top with turkey, then cabbage mixture, then cheese.
include a source of healthy protein into each meal (that includes snacks).
(if it  doesn’t say wild, it’s farm-raised.)
soup eaters also maintained, on average, a total weight loss of 16 pounds after one year.
you still can’t make like an unrestrained doberman in the butcher shop, but you can have a few drinks to unwind.
an australian study showed that overweight people who ate fish daily  improved their glucose-insulin response.
glad i don’t have to bother anymore!”
regardless of how you plan to serve your thanksgiving feast,you are going to need to seat all your guests somewhere, so make sure you have enough seats and space.
these chemicals are all toxins to your body (just as artificial sweeteners are) and your liver becomes extremely overwhelmed trying to rid your body of these harmful toxins.
all of these artificial sweeteners have been linked to cancer, tumors, and obesity.
d for diet, that is.
cook it as you would any other grain (although some brands require rinsing).
… for some of us, quitting something just because we didn’t do it perfectly is an easy escape route.
call the studio at 913 499 7510 or email me, tina@pilates1901.com all or nothing thinking can negatively affect your weight-loss efforts in ways you don’t even realize.
salmon seafood, especially fatty fish like salmon, tuna, and mackerel, is an excellent source of omega-3 fatty acids.
but as a relaxant, alcohol takes away the desire to exercise, to eat well and to give a damn about your fatty bits.
apples a 2003 study in the journal nutrition found that overweight women who consumed three apples or pears a day for three months lost more weight than their counterparts who were fed a similar diet with oat cookies instead of fruits.
yes, some of these people did lose weight but they also were fatigued, extremely constipated and theyall had the kind of bad breath that no amount of altoids could conquer.
(one egg packs about 213 milligrams of cholesterol.)
yes, brown bagging a healthy lunch four days in a row instead of  getting fast food is a victory.
if you can’t say itoutloud to your friends and your family, you won’t get past the first hurdle.
of course you can drink (alcohol) and diet.
no comments  » it's not too late to celebrate!
the workshop is free but we’d appreciate your reserving your spot.
cook, tossing, for about 2 minutes or until it sizzles again.
the protein and fat in the egg may be contributing to the feeling of  satiety.
veggie soup researchers at pennsylvania state university found that people who ate  broth-based (or low-fat cream-based) soups two times a day were more successful  in losing weight than those who ate the same amount of calories in snack food.
don’t let tom get the best of you!
and many thanks to our sponsors….. ( click on logo for more information!)
make these foods an integral part of your eating regimen and you will see some great results in your weight loss efforts.
leafy greens their cancer-preventing carotenoids won’t help shrink your waistline, but their low calorie count definitely will.
that ever-present sense of deprivation not only  makes overeating a risk, it also makes life downright miserable.
in other words, they help fuel your workouts.
that kind of “black and white” thinking can make your weight-loss efforts much more difficult and may even prevent you from losing weight at all.
(honestly, how long do youreally think you will be able to eat those for each meal?)
cover and cook, stirring occasionally, until onion is golden (about 3 minutes).
and keeping track of your calories can help you lose weight, too, as it helps tip you off to behaviors that lead to weight gain.
apples also contain quercetin, a compound shown to help fight certain cancers, reduce cholesterol damage, and promote healthy lungs.
nix the alarm you may crash hard, but your quality of shut-eye will be less than dreamy.
but skip  the hair of the dog—it only delays your misery.
don’t limit yourself to the usual suspects, like raspberries, blueberries, and strawberries.
author:admin help to prevent and cure your holiday hangover… #1.
how to get motivated again: 5 steps to avoid all or nothing thinking!
you’ll see the puffyness decrease and look  more awake.
no comments » help for hangovers… avoid the calories and the misery december 29th, 2010 |
a high quality omega 3 supplement also works wonders for your body and helps to burn off unwanted fat.
quinoa’s nutty flavor and  crunchy-yet-chewy texture are like a cross between whole wheat couscous and  short-grain brown rice.
let sit for 5 minutes.
in  other words, they help fuel your workouts.
so the only benefits to gain from an alcoholic drink are those related to alcohol as a relaxant.
and bring your gently used, freshly laundered workout and casual wear for ourfirst ever pilates1901 swap & shop to benefit save,inc. this is how it works.
the probiotic bacteria in most yogurts help keep your digestive system healthy, which translates into a lower incidence of gas, bloating, and constipation, which can keep your tummy looking flat.
i do agree that reducing the amount of carbohydrates in your meal plan will help you loseweight and lean down.
make what you can ahead of time.
a bold creamy lip color  will not only distract from tired eyes and dullness, it will add some dewyness  to your look.
jill stoppel- owner excel personal training studio jill has been involved in the fitness industry since 1999 and has been personal training on a full- time basis since 2002.
yes, i said two tablespoons.
better bet: if you’re just eating to eat (not that i  advocate that… but it happens), go for the vegetables, unadorned.
so, with that dress as my goal, these 10 tips from eating well, should help us slip into it dec 31st, “spanx free” and wear it happily.
purchase your beverages ahead of time – this is some heavy lifting you can get out of the way in advance of thanksgiving.
hanging near the crudité tray is a great way to keep calories in  check—so long as you stay away from the ranch (or blue cheese) dressing,  which delivers a devastating 150 calories and 16 grams of fat per two  tablespoons.
another nasty culprit is processed soy.
have a happy holiday everyone and watch out for those calorie  bombs!
but skip the hair of the dog—it only delays your misery.
wine is not the worst choice for a weight control diet and if you can bear a spritzer of half wine and half flat or fizzy water; you can double your drink, but limit your alcohol.
severely limiting your food intake or completely cutting out your favorite foods sets you up for a binge.
call 913 499 7510 today!
any goal worth achieving is worth investing in and that means going beyond the statement into action.
learn the right carb approach to look great and feel great at the same time.
shoot for: at least half a cup daily, or about 30 calories’ worth.
it is no longer a secret or even a shock to most people that refined sugar causes weight gain and is one of the leading causes of obesity in the world.
and you know who else it is working for?
eat up and slim down!
stayed tuned for great new fun stuff at pilates 1901 as we delve  into 2012!
mash it, then stir in leftover potatoes.
and don’t miss our free metabolism 101 workhop on saturday, jan 22nd at 1pm.
alcohol disrupts brain chemicals  that regulate sleep, so you’ll spend less time in restorative sleep and  more in light sleep.
in a playful style, lisa infuses joy and love into her classes encouraging flexibility in both body and mind.
(keep hunger at bay with these yummy snacks in  100-, 150-, 200- and 250-calorie increments.)
we’re proud of each of our current participants weight loss and progress and on december 18th one of these people will win a free beach trip to the destination of their choice.
fuel first a liquid dinner is a bad plan; eat before you go out.
come learn how at our free metabolism 101 workshop saturday, january 21st, 2012 from 1-2:00pm we’ve been helping hundreds of folks just like you transform their bodies for years!
and keeping track of your calories can help you lose weight, too,  as it helps tip you off to behaviors that lead to weight gain.
the only way to reach your ideal weight and stay there is to develop a healthy way of eating that you enjoy and that you can maintain (key word is maintain!)
and seeing the big picture  — that little slip-ups don’t count, but long-term changes do  — helps keep things in perspective.
most soft drinks, juices and even some “health” drinks have anywhere between 5-10 teaspoons of sugar in each 8 oz serving.
perk up your skin: after you wash your face, lock in some moisture – try any of dermadoctor’s kp duty.
when you consider that water helps the body metabolize stored fat, rid the body of waste (as in unwanted fat and toxins), and is a natural diuretic and a natural laxative, no wonder it is an absolute must when fat loss is your goal.
1:00 – 3:00pm bring a friend.
sip wisely brew peppermint tea with honey or pour a glass of 100 percent fruit juice.
heat in the microwave for 30 seconds or until warm.
(one egg  packs about 213 milligrams of cholesterol.)
(the spaghetti will be very firm to the bite.)
the fact is, most people who successfully lose weight —  and more importantly,keep that weight off — make healthy,  permanent lifestyle changes such as getting regular exercise, consciously  practicing portion control and finding ways to prevent emotional eating.
temptation  becomes much less powerful when you know it is fleeting and can be quelled with  less than you think.
plus, it cuts down on your shopping, cooking and mess!
come to our metabolism 101 workshop on saturday, january 21st at 1pm!
per serving: 360 cal, 6.3 g fat (1.4 g sat), 50 g carbs, 300 mg sodium, 9 g fiber, 26 g protein turkey-spinach lasagna 1 1/4 c fat-free ricotta cheese 1 egg 1/4 tsp ground black pepper 1 tbsp minced garlic 1 tbsp dried oregano 1 can (28 oz) crushed tomatoes 6 oven-ready lasagna noodles (half of a 12 oz box) 3 c (3 oz) finely chopped or torn baby spinach leaves 1 1/2 c (8 oz) finely chopped skinless roast turkey 3/4 c shredded provolone cheese 1.
you may not be able to.
following a strict diet naturally lends itself to giving in to all or nothing thinking: you’re either “on your diet” or you’ve “blown your diet” and if you’ve done the latter … well, you might as well quit altogether and eat whatever you want, right?
studies suggest that feeling deprived—even if you are consuming plenty of calories—can actually trigger overeating.
no comments » 10 ways to make sure that little black dress fits for the holidays!
but you must reduce the bad and increase the good.
it is the processed and refined wheat and grains that are causingeveryone to blow up like balloons.
all of them, no doubt, will have a buffet table packed with delicious holiday treats: mini quiches, swedish meatballs, the dozens of clever ways people devise to stuff cream cheese into pastry puffs, elaborate chocolate confections and spiced buttery baked goods.
stock your pantry with a case of sparkling water – whatever you don’t use will come in handy the rest of the holiday season.
if you’d  rather sample some of the special seasonal treats, just put two or three of the  most delicious-looking hors d’oeuvres on your plate and enjoy.
there is strength in community.
historically we have chosen mexico but we are open to other locales.
you can’t expect to lose weight if your hormones are raging from stress, low blood sugar and lack of sleep.
a bold creamy lip color will not only distract from tired eyes and dullness, it will add some dewyness to your look.
plan four “eating episodes” each day—three meals and a snack—spaced at regular intervals to avoid going long stretches without eating (which can also trigger overeating).
alcohol has an affinity for salty, fatty snack foods.
lay the foil, sprayed side down, over lasagna and loosely seal the edges.
you know turkey will be on it, so make some decisions: 6 to 8lbs.
the protein and fat in the egg may be contributing to the feeling of satiety.
so you get thebenefit of lean, toned muscles and a way to not be hungry.
a touch of  highlighter on the inner corners of your eye will make them look brighter.
translated, this means that seafood  may help slow digestion and prevent cravings.
but you’ve got to burn to turn your body into a fat torching machine.
stay tuned for more info on our winter session of leaner stronger sooner!
you can get rid of  it.
when brushing your teeth, wash your hands and face, too.
click here to purchase!
like everything related to sensible diet, the amount of alcohol you can safely consume in a day according to the health police is very very little.
if you factor your (minimal) alcohol intake into your daily calorie countit is worth remembering that alcohol = empty calories .
better bet: if you truly want cheese and crackers, limit  yourself to a few—say five crackers (about 80 calories) and top each with  a very thin layer of a cheese spread (think: goat cheese or even cheese ball).
cover tightly with microwave-safe plastic wrap and cook for 2 minutes on high.
don’t fall into the “no carb” trap.
it’s not your fault and we can help! questions?
the same goes for your snacks at home: stash the chips inside a cupboard and keep the apples out on the counter.
if you have mashed potatoes and cauliflower make: curry-cauli potato cakes put cauliflower in a microwavable bowl with enough water to barely submerge it.
research indicates that the composition of their cell walls may help  reduce the absorption of all of their fat, making them an extra-lean nut.
this means you got to move to make the changes you want for a sleek, hard body.
per serving: 276 cal, 6.8 g fat (3.4 g sat), 26 g carbs, 619 mg sodium, 4 g fiber, 28 g protein revamped reuben 1/2 c packed thin-sliced or shredded green cabbage (1.5 oz) 1 tsp white wine vinegar 1/2 tsp coarse ground mustard 1-2 slices rye bread, lightly toasted 2 oz sliced skinless roast turkey breast 1 slice 2% milk swiss cheese 1.
toss with a fork, pressing a few orange chunks lightly to release juice.
when office workers were given candies in clear dishes to place on their  desktops, they helped themselves to candy 71 percent more often than a similar  group that was given the same candy in opaque dishes so the candy wasn’t  visible, according to research out of cornell university.
sumo wrestlers make a concerted effort to get fat for their sport.
many of these judges have been helping us since we began this program many moons ago.
people who are “off” sugar, don’t even miss it.
yogurt people who get their calcium from yogurt rather than from other sources may lose more weight around their midsection, according to a recent study published in the international journal of obesity.
so if your number one goal was to get fat this is exactly what you could do: 1.
eggs are highly respected by dietitians because of their balance of essential amino acids (protein building blocks used by your body to manufacture everything from muscle fibers to brain chemicals).
the following words on a nutritional label mean “sugar” and should probably be avoided: corn sweetener, corn syrup, or corn syrup solids, dehydrated cane juice, dextrin, dextrose, fructose, fruit juice concentrate, glucose, high fructose corn syrup, honey, lactose, maltodextrin, malt syrup, maltose, maple syrup, molasses, raw sugar, rice syrup, saccharose, sucrose, syrup, treacle, turbinado sugar, xylose fortunately for those looking for a lean, defined body, once you stop eating sugar, your addiction will quickly disappear.
“a stable blood-sugar level helps prevent cravings that can lead to overeating and weight gain,” says david katz, md, a professor at the yale university school of medicine.
frustrated dieters all over the world can’t figureout why their new weight loss shake is not working like the commercial suggested.
why not reinvent yourself with thenew body you deserve!
there’s an old saying: “no matter how far you’ve gone down the wrong path, it’s never too late to turn back.”
yes, brown bagging a healthy lunch four days in a row instead of getting fast food is a victory.
small, gradual changes are what will work.
we’d love to learn new ways to save time and cut down on stress!
step three: stop saying the “d word” d for diet, that is.
december 16th, 2010 |
a touch of highlighter on the inner corners of your eye will make them look brighter.
reward yourself for the small challenges you surmount.
so if you drink even a moderate amount of alcohol while trying to lose weight, your body is likely to thank you by slapping lard deposits in all your bumpiest storage facilities.
set a weekly goal to  burn 1,000 calories through “programmed” exercise—such as our  hit classes, bootcamp and cardio tramp workouts.
winners are selected based upon the following criteria: overall physical change via before and after pictures, overall change in body composition and size based on measurement stats, and finally, overall psychological change based on a personal essay.
= 1 to 2 days 12 to 16lbs.
if you often feel like you are starving all day no matter how much food you’ve consumed, chances are you may be severely dehydrated.