the recent news about the manufacturing process turning  this into a product similar it high fructose corn syrup is on my radar.
knowledge is power.
we have since reformulated to all natural somersweet which is a 100% natural product - and i couldn’t be more thrilled to have all artificial sweeteners out of my system.
suzanne has authored 20 books, including elevennew york times bestsellers, as well as five of which were #1 new york times bestsellers.
i am always shocked when i tell people this and they say, “so?
not a good source for baking  as it does not hold up to heat and leaves an aftertaste if you use a lot of  it.
i get so many questions on this, i though i would give you my opinion… it’s just another one to add to group, but here’s my pov.
that means it’s natural,  right?  around the turn of the century, the new yellow packets became the  rage (once aspartame was exposed).
it’s the consistency of honey, but is not supposed to spike insulin, like honey.
due to this aftertaste.
when i first debuted original somersweet, i didn’t have the information i have today and it contained a very small amount of artificial sweetener.
as a special offer for my facebook friends, enter coupon code facebook at  checkout and receive 50% off your first order
my personal opinion: much better choices than artificial sweeteners, but i use them only in moderation to keep my weight and health in check.
additionally, there is a small amount of fructose found in our inulin blend, but it’s such a low amount, we still boast 0 sugars per serving.
come to find out, sucralose is made by taking a sugar molecule and adding  chlorine to it.
the real stuff - raw sugar, honey, white sugar: all are accepted by the body as sugar.
so far i have believed this is a healthy, natural alternative to sugar or honey, with a lower glycemic index.
subscribe log in > guide to sweeteners – still a sticky topic by suzanne somers  6/30/2011 8:22:00 am dear friends, i recently posted to my friends on facebook, asking about their  sweetener of choice.
now there is  controversial information that the manufacturing process turns this natural  sweetener into a syrup, similar to high fructose corn syrup – stating  that agave nectar is actually 90% fructose.
i use it cup for cup in place of sugar in recipes with excellent results.
ingredients: all natural somersweet is mostly made from inulin, which is a chicory fiber.
around the turn of the century, the new yellow packets became the rage (once aspartame was exposed).
aspartame is still sold and added to over 6,000 products.
my personal opinion: i use agave, but only organic agave  to make sure there are no chemicals in the extraction process.
this addiction makes us crave more and more sweet foods and can actually cause weight gain, rather than weight loss – which is the reason most people use these products anyway.
some of this is based on research i have collected from the medical experts with whom i surround myself, and some is just based on my personal views.
for more information on all natural somersweet, click here.
there was a particularly nasty online article that took off virally  - slandering aspartame (mostly from diet soda drinkers) and linking it to  cancer, brain tumors, lupus, and multiple sclerosis.
all cause increases in insulin, our fat storing hormone.
net 1.4.5.0 suzanne somers is one of america’s most popular and beloved personalities.
lastly, citrus peel extract rounds out the flavor.
it has taken me years to develop it.
splenda was originally made as a pesticide-go dump it on your ant beds and come back tomorrow to see all the dead ants.”
the blue – aspartame:  took the spotlight from  the pink in the 80s.
ofall natural somersweet packets *!
the blue – aspartame: took the spotlight from the pink in the 80s.
the yellow – sucralose: “made from sugar so it tastes like sugar.”
i prefer honey of the three, then raw sugar, then white sugar.
it also contains erythritol – a natural substance found in pears, melons, grapes, mushrooms and wine.
i am always shocked when i tell people this and they say,  “so?
less aftertaste, and didn’t seem to have that cancer causing issue that had freaked out so many with saccharin.
as i learn, i adjust.
i interviewed dr. steven hotze in breakthrough, who states, “toxins are the big problem.
in 2008 i interviewed blaylock for my book, breakthrough, and he cited two  new studies by one of the biggest cancer research institutes in the world, the  ramazzini foundation of oncology and environmental sciences in italy.
he states, “we had good evidence before  that aspartame most likely produced cancer, and now we know it does for  sure.”
this has been around since the 60s and 70s.
the yellow – sucralose: “made from  sugar so it tastes like sugar.”
one of the big benefits is that  it measures just like sugar – making it easier to use in baking.
it’s less offensive in coffee, but i like my  coffee without sweetener anyway.
my personal opinion: great for cold or hot drinks.
so far i have  believed this is a healthy, natural alternative to sugar or honey, with a lower  glycemic index.
click here for suzanne's full biography.
again, this was the miracle new sweetener.
the fiber may cause you to  “move” a little, but that’s a good thing!
love it on greek yogurt with a little cinnamon.
upon reading it again today, i see dr. russell blaylock was quoted in it all those years ago, stating, “the ingredients stimulate the neurons of the brain to death, causing brain damage of varying degrees.”
with the information i have today, i still think it is the least offensive of the artificial sweeteners, however, i do not use it or any artificial sweeteners.
my personal opinion: i don’t use any artificial  sweeteners, and certainly not this one.
i have been using agave  nectar as a low-glycemic liquid sweetener for the past five years or so.
(for more information, readbreakthrough, p. 38.)
come to find out, sucralose is made by taking a sugar molecule and adding chlorine to it.
the  results confirmed that aspartame breaks down in the body to formaldehyde, which  breaks up the dna and leaves the body with double-strand breaks, most  associated with cancer induction.
excellent for baking.
the results confirmed that aspartame breaks down in the body to formaldehyde, which breaks up the dna and leaves the body with double-strand breaks, most associated with cancer induction.
many sources say this “chain letter” is anecdotal, from anonymous sources and scientifically implausible.
and it’s only 5 on the glycemic index so it won’t spike my insulin.
all natural somersweet spoons into coffee  tea just like sugar, but what i really love about this product is how it  bakes!
then it got a “causes cancer” wrap – of course, proven and disproven depending upon the article you read or expert you consult.
all cause increases  in insulin, our fat storing hormone.
and i pass along my information to you.
agave – 100% natural.
all natural somersweet spoons into coffee tea just like sugar, but what i really love about this product is how it bakes!
i really like the taste and consistency of this product.
the recent news about the manufacturing process turning this into a product similar it high fructose corn syrup is on my radar.
start slowly and build your way up.
my personal opinion: i don’t use any artificial  sweeteners.
i use them in moderation.
one of the big benefits is that it measures just like sugar – making it easier to use in baking.
sincerely, suzanne somers currently rated 3.4 by 30 people tags: food and nutrition | generale-mail | kick it!
controlling this hormone, so that our food is burned as fuel rather than stored as fat, is a key tenant to my weight loss plan,sexy forever, so i moderate my use of all of these sugars.
still, fructose is 20 on the  glycemic index as opposed to sugar which is 100!
the green – stevia: stevia is 100% natural,  extracted from a plant in south america, it has a low glycemic index and there  are no controversial reports on the health or safety of this natural sweetener.
my personal opinion: many years ago i recommended this product as an alternative to sugar (you will see references for it in my early books).
it’s less offensive in coffee, but i like my coffee without sweetener anyway.
while erythritol is  categorized as a sugar alcohol, it has no gassy side effects.
my personal opinion: i use agave, but only organic agave to make sure there are no chemicals in the extraction process.
i use it cup for cup in place of sugar in recipes with excellent  results.
this is a pre-biotic soluble fiber – something your body needs anyway.
we have since reformulated  to all natural somersweet which is a 100% natural product - and  i couldn’t be more thrilled to have all artificial sweeteners out of my  system.
start slowly and  build your way up.
great for those on mysexy forever plan.
my personal opinion: i don’t use any artificial sweeteners, and certainly not this one.
it’s sucralose, which is  chlorinated hydrocarbon, which is toxic.
then in the late 90s we started to see reports that maybe this artificial sweetener was dangerous as well.
(limited time while supplies last).
i have not had luck baking with it due to this aftertaste.
while erythritol is categorized as a sugar alcohol, it has no gassy side effects.
any chlorinated hydrocarbon in the  world is toxic, carcinogenic.
lastly, citrus  peel extract rounds out the flavor.
available in individual packets or cans.
then it got a “causes cancer” wrap – of  course, proven and disproven depending upon the article you read or expert you  consult.
any chlorinated hydrocarbon in the world is toxic, carcinogenic.
my personal opinion: i use this product now and then, but i do not like the licorice aftertaste.
he states, “we had good evidence before that aspartame most likely produced cancer, and now we know it does for sure.”
some of this is based on  research i have collected from the medical experts with whom i surround myself,  and some is just based on my personal views.
the real stuff - raw sugar, honey, white sugar: all are  accepted by the body as sugar.
i prefer  honey of the three, then raw sugar, then white sugar.
it’s the consistency of honey, but is not supposed to spike insulin, like  honey.
there was a particularly nasty online article that took off virally - slandering aspartame (mostly from diet soda drinkers) and linking it to cancer, brain tumors, lupus, and multiple sclerosis.
this is a pre-biotic soluble fiber – something your body  needs anyway.
i get so many questions on  this, i though i would give you my opinion… it’s just another one  to add to group, but here’s my pov.
then in the late 90s we started  to see reports that maybe this artificial sweetener was dangerous as  well.
not a good source for baking as it does not hold up to heat and leaves an aftertaste if you use a lot of it.
my ears are open for the next round of  research.
it has taken me years  to develop it.
this has been around since  the 60s and 70s.
less aftertaste, and didn’t seem to have that cancer causing issue that  had freaked out so many with saccharin.
in a multifaceted career, she has achieved extraordinary success as an actress,new york times bestselling author, entrepreneur, singer, comedienne, and lecturer.
ingredients: all natural somersweet is mostly made from inulin, which is a  chicory fiber.
controlling this hormone, so that our food  is burned as fuel rather than stored as fat, is a key tenant to my weight loss  plan,sexy forever, so i moderate my use of all of these sugars.
the fda does not report any safety issues.
as a special offer for my facebook friends, enter coupon code facebook at checkout and receive 50% off your first order ofall natural somersweet packets *!
with the information i  have today, i still think it is the least offensive of the artificial  sweeteners, however, i do not use it or any artificial sweeteners.
in 2008 i interviewed blaylock for my book, breakthrough, and he cited two new studies by one of the biggest cancer research institutes in the world, the ramazzini foundation of oncology and environmental sciences in italy.
what’s the problem with chlorine?”
it’s sucralose, which is chlorinated hydrocarbon, which is toxic.
i felt it was better than aspartame if you were going to use an artificial sweetener.
i need more information.
at first everyone thought it was the miracle sugar substitute.
to read the viral piece on aspartame with the rebuttals, click here.
and i pass  along my information to you.
the pink – saccharin:
and it’s only 5 on the glycemic index so it won’t  spike my insulin.
this  addiction makes us crave more and more sweet foods and can actually cause  weight gain, rather than weight loss – which is the reason most people  use these products anyway.
my ears are open for the next round of research.
when i first debuted original somersweet, i  didn’t have the information i have today and it contained a very small  amount of artificial sweetener.
dear friends, i recently posted to my friends on facebook, asking about their sweetener of choice.
splenda was originally made as a pesticide-go  dump it on your ant beds and come back tomorrow to see all the dead  ants.”
many sources say  this “chain letter” is anecdotal, from anonymous sources and  scientifically implausible.
at first everyone thought it was the miracle sugar  substitute.
my personal opinion: i use this product now and then, but  i do not like the licorice aftertaste.
there are currently more than 10 million copies of her books in print.
i  need more information.
it’s very concentrated.
the fiber may cause you to “move” a little, but that’s a good thing!
i have not had luck baking with it
my personal opinion: many years ago i  recommended this product as an alternative to sugar (you will see references  for it in my early books).
(breakthrough, p. 345)
additionally,  there is a small amount of fructose found in our inulin blend, but it’s  such a low amount, we still boast 0 sugars per serving.
i have been using agave nectar as a low-glycemic liquid sweetener for the past five years or so.
the purple one - all natural somersweet: this is my signature sweetener.
(breakthrough, p. 345) my personal opinion: i don’t use any artificial sweeteners.
the green – stevia: stevia is 100% natural, extracted from a plant in south america, it has a low glycemic index and there are no controversial reports on the health or safety of this natural sweetener.
studies also show artificial sweeteners are addictive.
it also contains erythritol – a natural substance  found in pears, melons, grapes, mushrooms and wine.
the fda does not  report any safety issues.
i interviewed dr. steven hotze in breakthrough, who states, “toxins  are the big problem.
still, fructose is 20 on the glycemic index as opposed to sugar which is 100!
upon reading it again today, i see dr.  russell blaylock was quoted in it all those years ago, stating, “the  ingredients stimulate the neurons of the brain to death, causing brain damage  of varying degrees.”
my personal opinion: much better choices than artificial  sweeteners, but i use them only in moderation to keep my weight and health in  check.
i felt it was better than aspartame if you were  going to use an artificial sweetener.
del.icio.us powered by blogengine.
the purple one - all natural somersweet: this is my  signature sweetener.
now there is controversial information that the manufacturing process turns this natural sweetener into a syrup, similar to high fructose corn syrup – stating that agave nectar is actually 90% fructose.
that means it’s natural, right?
as one of america’s most informed and dedicated health care advocates, suzanne has been acknowledged for her leading role in bringing information on today’s groundbreaking anti-aging medical protocols, preventive care, long-term health, and hormone replacement therapies to women and men across the country.