you can set a goal of just one soda each day  (without adding any additional sugary foods).
usda agricultural research service.
if you like the non-nutritive sweeteners, just remember  that while they don't add calories to your diet, they really don't add anything  good either.
shereen jegtvig (continued from page 1)
"usda national nutrient database for standard reference."
each teaspoon of sugar has 16 calories or 4 grams of sugar.
how about switching to drip  coffee or tea a few days each week?
if you like the non-nutritive sweeteners, just remember that while they don't add calories to your diet, they really don't add anything good either.
discuss in my forum by shereen jegtvig, about.com guide
using sugar as a condiment you don't have to give up sugar completely - you can use sugar like a  condiment instead of an ingredient.
so, go ahead and replace a regular soda with a diet soda, but  don't use them to replace healthy beverages such as milk, 100% fruit juices,  water and vegetable juice.
add a lemon slice to sparkling soda instead of sugary soda.
how about switching to drip coffee or tea a few days each week?
you don't have to give up sugar completely - you can use sugar like a condiment instead of an ingredient.
med sci sports exerc.
make your own trail  mix with dried fruit, mixed nuts and whole-grain cereal and take to work for a  snack instead of candy bars, cookies or pastries.
gropper ss, smith jl, groff jl.
shereen jegtvig nutrition guide ©2012 about.com.
6th edition, washington,  dc: u.s. government printing office, january 2005.
you can determine how many grams of sugar that is by dividing  the number by 4 (there are 4 calories in one gram of sugar).
so, go ahead and replace a regular soda with a diet soda, but don't use them to replace healthy beverages such as milk, 100% fruit juices, water and vegetable juice.
"dietary reference intakes for energy, carbohydrate, fiber, fat, fatty acids, cholesterol, protein, and amino acids."
nutrition source, harvard school of public health.
read nutrition facts labels to know how much sugar is in the foods you buy.
another  non-caloric natural sweetener is an herb calledstevia.
you can use honey the same way.
dietary guidelines for americans, 2005.
updated september 18, 2011 about.com health's disease and condition content is reviewed by our medical review boardsee more about: read nutrition facts labels to know how much sugar is in the foods you buy.
u.s. department of health and human services and u.s. department of  agriculture.
some people find the use of artificial sweeteners to be controversial, although there is plenty of research that demonstrates the safety of these sweeteners.
some people object to the flavor of artificial sweeteners, which are different from natural sugars.
institute of medicine of the national academies.
related reading here are some articles to help keep you motivated and learning.
if you don't like calculating numbers or that seems like a drastic cut in sugar, then you can choose a different goal.
wadsworth pub co. 2005.
for  example, if you need 2,000 calories per day, than only 200 calories should come  from extra sugar.
look at your food diary from last week.
added sugar quiz ready to test your knowledge on added sugar?
avoid the overly processed foods and read the labels onpackaged foods to look for added sugar.
tips for reducing the sugar in your diet buy fresh or frozen fruits and vegetables, whole grain breads and pasta,  plain oatmeal, lean meats, poultry, fish, and dairy products (other than  sugar-sweetened yogurts).
once you meet these goals, you can set new ones.
some people find the use of artificial sweeteners to be controversial,  although there is plenty of research that demonstrates the safety of these  sweeteners.
common sweeteners include  saccharin (sweet'n low), sucralose (splenda) andaspartame (nutrasweet).
continue to use your food diary.
do you usually drink three cans of a sugary soda?
each teaspoon of sugar has 16 calories or 4  grams of sugar.
if you don't like artificial sweeteners, you don't have to use them.
institute of medicine of  the national academies.
"advanced nutrition and human metabolism."
look at your food diary from last  week.
common sweeteners include saccharin (sweet'n low), sucralose (splenda) andaspartame (nutrasweet).
"advanced nutrition and human  metabolism."
did you start most of your days  with a sweet mocha latte from the coffee shop?
i will eat less than x number of grams of sugar three days this week (or  four or five days).
you'll get your sweet flavor, but you'll eat a lot less sugar.
using artificial sweeteners artificial sweeteners, which are also called "non-nutritive  sweeteners," add sweetness to many foods and beverages without adding any  calories or nutrition.
"dietary reference intakes for energy, carbohydrate, fiber, fat, fatty  acids, cholesterol, protein, and amino acids."
they are well-known ingredients in diet sodas and snacks, and some are easily identified in little colorful packets alongside sugar in your favorite coffee shop or restaurant.
artificial sweeteners, which are also called "non-nutritive sweeteners," add sweetness to many foods and beverages without adding any calories or nutrition.
so instead of buying a presweetened breakfast cereal with 15  grams of sugar in one serving, buy a whole grain cereal and add some fruit and  sprinkle a little sugar on top.
usda  agricultural research service.
here are some articles to help keep you motivated and learning.
this week now that you're going to pay more attention  to the added sugar in your diet, choose a goal similar to one of these: i will only drink one can of sugary soda instead of three cans on at least  three days this week (or four days or all week).
how many sugary foods did you eat or drink each day?
u.s. department of health and human services and u.s. department of agriculture.
"aim for a healthy weight. "
national heart lung and blood institute.
do you usually drink  three cans of a sugary soda?
6th edition, washington, dc: u.s. government printing office, january 2005.
a part of the new york times company.
they are well-known ingredients in diet sodas and  snacks, and some are easily identified in little colorful packets alongside  sugar in your favorite coffee shop or restaurant.
if you don't like artificial sweeteners, you  don't have to use them.
obesity education initiative.
mix 100% fruit juice with club soda for a  healthier soft-drink.
nutritionally, honey is about the same as sugar, but since it adds more flavor, you may use a teaspoon of honey on some of your foods.
so in our example,  200 calories would equal 50 grams of sugar.
last week, you calculated the number of calories  you should be taking in every day (if you didn't - go back and review thefirst  lesson).
nutritionally, honey is about the same as  sugar, but since it adds more flavor, you may use a teaspoon of honey on some  of your foods.
most of the fruit smoothies sold at coffee shops are filled with added  sugar and not much fruit.
how much sugar can i have? the world health organization suggests that  no more than 10% of your daily calories come from added sugar.
buy plain yogurt and add a little bit of honey, some chopped nuts and lots of blueberries.
if you don't like calculating numbers or that seems like a drastic cut in  sugar, then you can choose a different goal.
buy fresh fruit instead of cookies and pastries.
so instead of buying a presweetened breakfast cereal with 15 grams of sugar in one serving, buy a whole grain cereal and add some fruit and sprinkle a little sugar on top.
once you meet these goals, you can set new  ones.
take  this quiz before moving on to lesson 3 next week.
avoid the overly processed foods and read the labels  onpackaged foods to look for added sugar.
artificial sweeteners how to satisfy your sugar cravings without ruining your diet sources wilmore jh, "body composition in sport and exercise: directions for  future research."
calculate that number by using the example from the reading.
is white sugar better than high fructose corn syrup?
your next lesson will help you incorporate more fruits and vegetables into your diet, even if you're a picky eater - very important because fruits and vegetables are so good for your health.
it will help you keep track of how you are  progressing.
artificial sweeteners how to satisfy your sugar cravings without ruining your diet sources wilmore jh, "body composition in sport and exercise: directions for future research."
we comply with the honcode standard
make your own smoothies at home with bananas, berries  and a little non-fat milk.
you can set a goal of just one soda each day (without adding any additional sugary foods).
so let's turn that into grams, so you can use nutrient facts labels to  track your sugar consumption.
"aim for a healthy weight.
avoid ice cream sundaes, malts and shakes, and cold, blended coffee  drinks, which are all high in sugar.
" obesity education initiative.
another non-caloric natural sweetener is an herb calledstevia.
it will help you keep track of how you are progressing.
buy plain yogurt and add a little bit  of honey, some chopped nuts and lots of blueberries.
did you start most of your days with a sweet mocha latte from the coffee shop?
i will eat less than x number of grams of sugar three days this week (or four or five days).
serve fresh berries for dessert instead of ice cream.
buy fresh or frozen fruits and vegetables, whole grain breads and pasta, plain oatmeal, lean meats, poultry, fish, and dairy products (other than sugar-sweetened yogurts).
i will only drink one can of sugary soda instead of three cans on at least three days this week (or four days or all week).
nutrition source, harvard school of public  health.
some people object to the flavor of artificial sweeteners, which  are different from natural sugars.
you'll get your sweet flavor, but you'll eat a  lot less sugar.
only 10% of that number of calories should come from added sugars.
your next lesson will help you incorporate more fruits and  vegetables into your diet, even if you're a picky eater - very important  because fruits and vegetables are so good for your health.