share your experiences with diets that didn't work
u.s. department of health and human services.
the encyclopedia of foods: a guide to healthy nutrition.
low-carbohydrate diets.
dietary therapy for obesity.
- south beach diet - cabbage soup diet: can it help with weight loss?
a single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only.
some health experts believe that if you eat large amounts of fat and protein from animal sources your risk of heart disease or certain cancers may increase.
side effects from ketosis can include nausea, headache, mental fatigue and bad breath.
eating carbs that are high fiber, whole grain and nutrient dense can improve the health profile of some low-carb diet programs.
american dietetic association complete food and nutrition guide.
- patient care - request an appointment - log in to patient account - see treatment & diagnosis services - plan your visit - find a doctor - health information - diseases & conditions a-z - symptom checker - drugs & supplements a-z - tests & procedures a-z - healthy living - expert blogs - mayo clinic store - for medical professionals - online services for referring physicians - grand rounds - publications - continuing medical education - mayo medical laboratories - research - explore research areas - find clinical trials - research faculty - postdoctoral fellowships - discoverys edge magazine - search publications - education - mayo graduate school - mayo medical school - mayo school of continuous professional development - mayo school of graduate medical education - mayo school of health sciences - alumni association - request an appointment - find a doctor - find a job - log in to patient account - give to mayo clinic - diseases and conditions - symptoms - drugs and supplements - tests and procedures - healthy lifestyle - first aid - home - healthy lifestyle - weight loss - in-depth - low-carb diet: can it help you lose weight?
comparison of weight-loss diets with different  compositions of fat, protein, and carbohydrates.
accessed  jan. 31, 2011.
centers for disease control and prevention.
results weight loss most people can lose weight on almost any diet plan that restricts calories and what you can eat — at least in the short term.
dietary guidelines for americans, 2010.
- the special k diet: helpful for weight loss?
- we do not share your e-mail address online community.
over the long term, though, studies show that it's common to regain the lost weight, regardless of the diet plan you follow.
http://www.cnpp.usda.gov/dgas2010-policydocument.htm.
legal conditions and terms of use applicable to all users of this site.
san diego, calif.: academic press; 2002.
- share your experiences with diets that didn't work - when it comes to weight loss, there's no magic bullet - junk food diet for weight loss?
- nelson jk (expert opinion).
- weight loss: choosing a diet that's right for you - dieting?
- gardner cd, et al.
some studies show that you may shed some weight because you eat less on low-carb diets because the extra protein and fat keep you feeling full longer.
share this on ... - stumbleupon - digg - del.icio.us - facebook - myspace link to this page to link to this page, copy this html and paste it onto your web page.
and it may not be just cutting carbs that leads to weight loss.
american  journal of clinical nutrition.
hoboken, n.j.: john wiley & sons; 2006.
- hcg diet: is it safe and effective?
accessed aug. 15, 2011.
new york, n.y.: fireside; 2010.
it's not clear what kind of possible long-term health risks a low-carb diet may pose because most research studies have lasted less than a year.
- alli weight-loss pill: does it work?
mayo clinic, rochester, minn. aug. 29, 2011.
and it may not only be how many carbs you eat but also the kinds of carbs you eat that are important to your health.
- the encyclopedia of foods: a guide to healthy nutrition.
any use of this site constitutes your agreement to these terms and conditions of use.
atkins diet: what's behind the claims?
new england journal of  medicine.
- try mayo clinic health letter free!
about our newsletters - housecall - alzheimer's caregiving - living with cancer close window about our e-newsletters - free e-newsletters - mayo clinic expertise - we do not share your e-mail address housecall, our weekly general-interest e-newsletter, keeps you up to date on a wide variety of health topics with timely, reliable, practical information, recipes, blogs, questions and answers with mayo clinic experts and more.
join mayo clinic's - free weekly e-newsletter - mayo clinic expertise - recipes, tools and other helpful information
- mayo clinic is a not-for-profit organization and proceeds from web advertising help support our mission.
healthy recipes: a guide to ingredient substitutions artificial sweeteners: understanding these and other sugar substitutes energy density and weight loss: feel full on fewer calories related links references shai i, et al.
the ultimate diet for shedding weight and feeling great.
dietary carbohydrates.
low-carb diets may improve hdl cholesterol and triglyceride values slightly more than do moderate-carb diets.
hensrud dd (expert opinion).
- westman ec, et al.
high-protein diets: are they safe?
what you get connect with others who've been there.
- see all in diet pills, supplements and surgery free e-newsletters subscribe to receive the latest updates on health topics.
the nurse practitioner.
comparison of weight-loss diets with different compositions of fat, protein, and carbohydrates.
beware of liquid calories flat belly diet: can it help you lose weight?
http://www.cdc.gov/nutrition/everyone/basics/carbs.html.
popular diets: what practitioners should know.
vegetarian diet: will it help me lose weight?
american journal of clinical nutrition.
"mayo," "mayo clinic," "mayoclinic.com," "embodyhealth," "enhance your life," and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo foundation for medical education and research.
the ultimate diet for  shedding weight and feeling great.
your e-mail clicking "send" signifies that you have read and agree to our privacy policy.
terms and conditions of use policy (updated aug. 2, 2011)
weight loss with a low-carbohydrate, mediterranean, or  low-fat diet.
- advertising and sponsorship policy - advertising and sponsorship opportunities - about this site - site help - contact us - e-newsletter - blogs - podcasts - slide shows - videos - site map - reprints and permissions find mayo clinic on privacy policy (updated aug. 2, 2011)
in fact, almost any diet that helps you shed excess weight can reduce or even reverse risks factors for cardiovascular disease and diabetes.
comparison of the atkins, zone, ornish, and learn diets  for change in weight and related risk factors among overweight premenopausal  women: the a to z weight loss study: a randomized trial.
© 1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research.
nelson jk (expert opinion).
low-carbohydrate nutrition and metabolism.
when it comes to weight loss, there's no magic bullet junk food diet for weight loss?
- healthy recipes: a guide to ingredient substitutions - see all in diet plans - mayo clinic diet (6) - the mayo clinic diet: a weight-loss program for life - energy density and weight loss: feel full on fewer calories - snacks: how they fit into your weight-loss plan - see all in mayo clinic diet - diet and exercise (9) - exercise for weight loss: calories burned in 1 hour - barriers to fitness: overcoming common challenges - aerobic exercise:
- vegetarian diet: will it help me lose weight?
our biweekly topic-specific e-newsletters also include blogs, questions and answers with mayo clinic experts, and other useful information that will help you manage your health.
http://www.uptodate.com/home/index.html.
some studies also have shown that people who continued to follow certain low-carb diet plans for two years lost an average of nearly 9 pounds (4.1 kilograms) overall, which is similar to the amount of weight lost on higher carbohydrate diets.
print share reprints close window e-mail this page *
previous page (2 of 2) references - hand scheduled see also section focus - the cookie diet: can it help you lose weight?
housecall archives close window mayo clinic housecall stay up to date on the latest health information.
south beach diet cabbage soup diet: can it help with weight loss?
american family physician.
this can cause such health problems as constipation, diarrhea and nausea.
the new atkins for a new you.
"mayo," "mayo clinic,"  "mayoclinic.com," "embodyhealth," "enhance your  life," and the triple-shield mayo clinic logo are trademarks of mayo  foundation for medical education and research.
ketosis occurs when you don't have enough sugar (glucose) for energy, so your body breaks down stored fat, causing ketones to build up in your body.
weight loss with a low-carbohydrate, mediterranean, or low-fat diet.
the nurse  practitioner.
- healthy recipes: a guide to ingredient substitutions - artificial sweeteners: understanding these and other sugar substitutes - energy density and weight loss: feel full on fewer calories related links nu00279 oct. 11, 2011 - shai i, et al.
© 1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research (mfmer).
nature clinical practice cardiovascular medicine.
we comply with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information:verify here.
top 10 reasons to get physical - see all in diet and exercise view the health heart book - diet pills, supplements and surgery (6) - gastric bypass surgery: who is it for?
most weight-loss diets — not just low-carb diets — may improve blood cholesterol or blood sugar levels, at least temporarily.
continued: low-carb diet: can it help you lose weight?
weight loss - basics - in-depth - multimedia - expert answers - expert blog - resources - what's new - weight-loss basics (13) - getting past a weight-loss plateau - counting calories: get back to weight-loss basics - metabolism and weight loss: how you burn calories - see all in weight-loss basics - diet plans (5) - weight loss: choosing a diet that's right for you - low-carb diet: can it help you lose weight?
other health benefits some low-carb diets, including the atkins diet, say that their eating plans can prevent or improve serious health conditions, such as metabolic syndrome, diabetes, high blood pressure and cardiovascular disease.
the cookie diet: can it help you lose weight?
- coffee calories: sabotaging your weight-loss goal?
guidelines for sites linking to mayoclinic.com advertisement check out these best-sellers and special offers on books and newsletters from mayo clinic.
it's also possible that severely restricting carbohydrates to less than 20 grams a day can result in ketosis.
mayo clinic, rochester, minn. sept. 17, 2011.
nu00279  oct. 11, 2011 © 1998-2012 mayo foundation for medical education and research  (mfmer).
san diego,  calif.: academic press; 2002.
the special k diet: helpful for weight loss?
comparison of the atkins, zone, ornish, and learn diets for change in weight and related risk factors among overweight premenopausal women: the a to z weight loss study: a randomized trial.
text size: smaller largerlarger
accessed jan. 31, 2011.
hcg diet: is it safe and effective?
beware of liquid calories - flat belly diet: can it help you lose weight?
u.s. department of health and  human services.
- mayo clinic five steps to controlling high blood pressure - mayo clinic book of home remedies - control fibromyalgia with a three-step action plan the mayo clinic diet — eat well.
and some low-carb diets, such as atkins, now recommend taking small amounts of extra salt, along with vitamins or supplements, to help prevent diet side effects.
the new england journal of medicine.
print share reprints
- over-the-counter weight-loss pills: do they work?
- dietary guidelines for americans, 2010.
required fields * recipient's e-mail address *
weight loss: choosing a diet that's right for you dieting?
astrup a, et al. atkins and other low-carbohydrate diets: hoax or an  effective tool for weight loss?
mayo clinic does not endorse any of the products and services advertised.
a single copy of these materials may be reprinted  for noncommercial personal use only.
coffee calories: sabotaging your weight-loss goal?
if you suddenly and drastically cut carbs, you may experience a variety of temporary health effects, including: - headache - dizziness - weakness - fatigue - constipation
popular weight-loss diets:
low-carb diet: can it help you lose weight?
from evidence to practice.
- hensrud dd (expert opinion).
whole grains, legumes, vegetables, fruits and low-fat dairy products, for instance, are generally healthier than are carbs from sweets and processed and refined grains, such as potato chips, white bread and white rice.
new england journal of medicine.
in addition, some diets restrict carbohydrate intake so much that they can result in nutritional deficiencies or insufficient fiber.
- high-protein diets: are they safe?
- astrup a, et al. atkins and other low-carbohydrate diets: hoax or an effective tool for weight loss?
- atkins diet: what's behind the claims?