health  conscious consumers take advantage of stevia to avoid sugar and help prevent  diabetes and obesity.
stevia can be purchased at health food stores, natural grocers, food coops and online.
the average consumer may not have heard about stevia until recently  because of its current fda approval as a dietary supplement, not as a sweetener  or food additive.
the fda  approved the use of stevia only as a dietary supplement since 1995.
also, it  has no carbohydrates or fat, so it’s great for dieters, especially those  watching carb intake.
the book is available at various online sites including www.steviadessert.com, amazon, barnes & noble, health food stores or you can order it at your favorite bookstore.
share    facebook   buzz   delicious   digg   twitter liquid stevia flavors
these are what make stevia up to 300 times sweeter than sugar and non-caloric.
as of this writing, about ten countries, including japan, paraguay and brazil have approved stevia as a sweetener and/or food additive.
consider these facts: since 1985, childhood diabetes has increased ten-fold.
apricot nectar berry
in baking, the pure extract is used primarily and, in some cases, the  liquid variety.
it has no known side effects like  some chemical sweeteners and has been safely consumed around the world for  decades.
that’s why it’s a good idea to find stevia cookbooks with  proven recipes when you’re starting out.
these glycosides do not get absorbed into the body; rather simply pass through leaving no calories.
the negative side effects and controversial  studies regarding their proposed safety suggest that another alternative is  desirable and necessary.
stevia can be purchased at health food stores, natural grocers,  food coops and online.
finally, stevia is not appropriate in recipes that require sugar caramelizing or browning like meringues.
for instance, health food stores and natural grocers must place stevia in the supplements section, not with the natural sweeteners for fear of the fda mandate.
the average consumer may not have heard about stevia until recently because of its current fda approval as a dietary supplement, not as a sweetener or food additive.
if there were an all-natural sweetening ingredient that’s been used  safely for over 30 years in other parts of the world for food applications and  diabetes management with no ill effects, would you be interested?
use a minimal amount; can be overwhelming if you add too much initially;  add more later if needed.
the advantages to stevia are numerous, so the following are the most  frequently cited.
health conscious consumers take advantage of stevia to avoid sugar and help prevent diabetes and obesity.
clearly very little stevia is needed to replace sugar.
home stevia recipes stevia products testimonials stevia library faq's  contact us stevia facts stevioside, found in  the stevia plant, has been used for many years in the treatment of diabetes  among indians in brazil and paraguay.
if you purchase the green powder for its slightly higher health benefits,  it will usually have more aftertaste than the white powder.
the real challenge to using stevia  effectively is knowing what ingredients to use in a recipe to make up for the  volume and consistency lost with the elimination of sugar, especially in baked  goods.
if there were an all-natural sweetening ingredient that’s been used safely for over 30 years in other parts of the world for food applications and diabetes management with no ill effects, would you be interested?
using stevia, an all-natural alternative to sugar and artificial  sweeteners, is gaining increasing popularity worldwide.
in baking, the pure extract is used primarily and, in some cases, the liquid variety.
doing this can help decrease one’s chances  of getting diabetes and being overweight or obese---both epidemics in this  country with adults and children alike.
stevia is available in many forms including liquid, teas, plants/leaves, pure white and green powdered extract and powdered blends with different fillers.
the product’s country of origin doesn’t matter; it’s  farming, manufacturing and processing experience and techniques do.
while some might think that artificial sweeteners are the best solution to  curb our love affair with sugar, others disagree.
about 2/3 of u.s. adults are overweight or obese; while up to 30% of  children are overweight, compared to 4% in 1982.
you can also find some free recipes online.
stevia rebaudiana, its  botanical name, is derived from a plant in the chrysanthemum family grown  primarily in south america and asia.
currently a big push is underway to expand distribution  into grocery stores, vitamin shops and drugstores.
using stevia, an all-natural alternative to sugar and artificial sweeteners, is gaining increasing popularity worldwide.
numerous studies worldwide tout its overall safety and health  benefits.
as of this writing, about ten countries, including japan, paraguay  and brazil have approved stevia as a sweetener and/or food additive.
if he/she doesn’t recommend it, politely  ask why to see if the reason is satisfactory to you.
currently a big push is underway to expand distribution into grocery stores, vitamin shops and drugstores.
stevia can be used as a healthy substitute in most sugar applications,  including baking and cooking since it is heat stable.
many uses - coffee,  tea, smoothies create your own soft drinks!
it has no known side effects like some chemical sweeteners and has been safely consumed around the world for decades.
moreover countries like brazil use stevia for the treatment for diabetes.
numerous studies worldwide tout its overall safety and health benefits.
in  reality, much of this sugar is in the form of high fructose corn syrup  prevalent in foods because it’s much cheaper than sucrose, common  tabletop sugar.
artificial sweeteners do eliminate the high calories and carbohydrates associated with sugar, however many believe that these alternatives are unsafe and are actually worse than sugar.
due to the number of factors that can influence your stevia purchase  experience, the following guidelines provide some good advice: you often do get what you pay for; don’t buy based solely on price;  taste and quality matter.
the centers for  disease control predicts that if this trend continues, one out of every three  children born beginning in 2000 will develop diabetes in their lifetime.
check with your doctor before  including stevia to your diet.
so is there yet another alternative available?
unlike artificial sweeteners, high quality stevia has little aftertaste when measured properly.
finally, stevia is not appropriate in recipes that require  sugar caramelizing or browning like meringues.
actually, stevia’s original medicinal uses date back centuries  ago with the paraguan indians who mixed the herb in teas for its healing  properties.
the japanese have used stevia in food applications from soft drinks to soy sauce since the 1970s and recent reports indicate that stevia commands up to an incredible 50% share of japan’s commercial sweetener market.
at this time, stevia production is not standardized, so taste and strength  do differ depending on brand.
while some might think that artificial sweeteners are the best solution to curb our love affair with sugar, others disagree.
the plant’s intense sweetening qualities are complex molecules called steviosides that are glycosides made of glucose, sophorose and steviol.
since stevia is sugar-free, candida sufferers can use it.
stevia is available in many forms including liquid, teas, plants/leaves,  pure white and green powdered extract and powdered blends with different  fillers.
the average conversion rate of sugar to stevia is one cup of sugar per one teaspoonful of pure stevia extract.
artificial sweeteners do  eliminate the high calories and carbohydrates associated with sugar, however  many believe that these alternatives are unsafe and are actually worse than  sugar.
the fda approved the use of stevia only as a dietary supplement since 1995.
the average conversion  rate of sugar to stevia is one cup of sugar per one teaspoonful of pure stevia  extract.
moreover countries like brazil  use stevia for the treatment for diabetes.
the stores cannot promote the “sweetening” qualities of stevia, even though that’s why it is purchased.
for instance, health food stores and  natural grocers must place stevia in the supplements section, not with the  natural sweeteners for fear of the fda mandate.
stevia may also be advantageous in the prevention and treatment of  diabetes, obesity and other health conditions.
the advantages to stevia are numerous, so the following are the most frequently cited.
the book is available at various online sites including www.steviadessert.com, amazon, barnes & noble, health food stores or you  can order it at your favorite bookstore.
well, such a  substance does exist and it’s called stevia.
stevia can be used as a healthy substitute in most sugar applications, including baking and cooking since it is heat stable.
this means  stevia companies must maintain a fairly low profile, thereby limiting its  distribution and marketing potential.
when used in  beverages, stevia dissolves quickly and easily and, depending on your taste  preference, only a pinch is needed.
well, such a substance does exist and it’s called stevia.
widespread use of sugar and artificial  sweeteners are at dangerous levels.
unlike artificial sweeteners, high quality stevia has  little aftertaste when measured properly.
the real challenge to using stevia effectively is knowing what ingredients to use in a recipe to make up for the volume and consistency lost with the elimination of sugar, especially in baked goods.
you can also find some free  recipes online.
stevia may be a welcome option for those who want to  ingest more natural ingredients with no known side effects, no calories, no  carbs, no fat, no affect on glucose levels and no sugar or artificial  sweeteners.
the plant’s intense sweetening  qualities are complex molecules called steviosides that are glycosides made of  glucose, sophorose and steviol.
the websitewww.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov, under the direction of  the national institutes of health, national library of medicine and national  center of biotechnology information, offers abstracts from stevia studies that  indicate it may also aid in lowering blood pressure and regulating glucose  levels.
that’s why it’s a good idea to find stevia cookbooks with proven recipes when you’re starting out.
this means stevia companies must maintain a fairly low profile, thereby limiting its distribution and marketing potential.
stevia: a better alternative to sugar and artificial sweeteners © lisa jobs share most  medical experts would agree that one of the best ways to improve your health is  to reduce your sugar intake.
these are what make stevia up to 300 times  sweeter than sugar and non-caloric.
these glycosides do not get absorbed into  the body; rather simply pass through leaving no calories.
when used in beverages, stevia dissolves quickly and easily and, depending on your taste preference, only a pinch is needed.
for more information on stevia or to try free stevia recipes, visit the  web or www.steviadessert.com and cookbooks like sensational stevia desserts by  lisa jobs, $19.95 retail price, healthy lifestyle publishing llc, copyright  ©2005.
in the past 25 years, obesity  in children has more than doubled, affecting at least 15% of school-age  children!
the websitewww.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov, under the direction of the national institutes of health, national library of medicine and national center of biotechnology information, offers abstracts from stevia studies that indicate it may also aid in lowering blood pressure and regulating glucose levels.
higher % of stevioside doesn’t necessarily make the stevia better;  you can find excellent tasting stevia with this key plant composition at even  80%.
in its pure form, it’s non-caloric and doesn’t affect glucose levels, an advantage for diabetics and hypoglycemics.
also, it has no carbohydrates or fat, so it’s great for dieters, especially those watching carb intake.
due to the number of factors that can influence your stevia purchase experience, the following guidelines provide some good advice: for more information on stevia or to try free stevia recipes, visit the web or www.steviadessert.com and cookbooks like sensational stevia desserts by lisa jobs, $19.95 retail price, healthy lifestyle publishing llc, copyright ©2005.
in its pure form, it’s non-caloric and doesn’t  affect glucose levels, an advantage for diabetics and hypoglycemics.
actually, stevia’s original medicinal uses date back centuries ago with the paraguan indians who mixed the herb in teas for its healing properties.
the stores cannot promote the  “sweetening” qualities of stevia, even though that’s why it  is purchased.
stevia rebaudiana, its botanical name, is derived from a plant in the chrysanthemum family grown primarily in south america and asia.
that represents a whopping 30- 5 lb. bags of sugar each year!
the japanese have  used stevia in food applications from soft drinks to soy sauce since the 1970s  and recent reports indicate that stevia commands up to an incredible 50% share  of japan’s commercial sweetener market.
the average american ingests over 150 lbs.