category: vision improvement articles you can follow  any responses to this entry through therss 2.0 feed.
and if you can find a source of fresh, raw honey, it’s definitely worth it to stock up!
chromium is essential for glucose utilization in muscle fibers, making it  necessary for good muscle function.
aside from  peanut butter, as heather mentioned, i also like a couple tbsp grated coconut,  or a banana and cinnamon, or raisins, apricots, or any kind of nut in any  combo.
3 david wow carina, i just found your blog because i did a search on cinnamon  – ever time i use it, i find that my night vision improves.
and when they return back to the hive they  actually infect the entire hive and that is slowly killing off the bee  population.
stevia is really sweeter than sucrose.~– a healthy diet will always be composed of high fiber frutis and veggies, low sugar, low carb and rich in protein.
continue to emerge into the mainstream.
chromium is essential for glucose utilization in muscle fibers, making it necessary for good muscle function.
© carina goodrich diet, nutrition and many other important topics are discussed in great  detail during our regular live tele-class programs.
i believe in a diet that is 85-95% healthy and body wise, and the other 5-15% for enjoyment of life in a body!
i wish  to update on your matters every and then .god bless y. 2 andrei sugar can easily be replaced by honey.
your body actually craves complex foods, which provide energy to burn for hours, and minerals to keep all the cell processes going.
its really sad because so many people depend on honey and its  natural ingreadents for many things..
sucrose level – the less, the better (you get some artificial sugar added sometimes to add weight etc – watch that!)
“bodies are made of food,” said dr. janet goodrich in her book h elp your child to perfect eyesight without glasses.
even if you eat a generally healthy diet, containing plenty of fresh fruit  and vegetables, pretty much eliminating white sugar from your diet will help  your visual system to better achieve the required nutrient levels for good  eyesight.
i use honey as a tool for weight loss.
prunes are good … name (required) e-mail (will not be published , required)
and if you can find a source of fresh, raw  honey, it’s definitely worth it to stock up!
be aware that often a craving for sugar indicates a lack of minerals in the body.
white sugar in the body sneaks  into the mineral reserves and steals away chromium.
here are some useful things to know about honey… there are different types of it, and here’s what makes honey good: diostase level – the higher the better.
nathan wolfe… i cook my oatmeal with milk already (first in water, then milk).
well written and researched.
i  believe in a diet that is 85-95% healthy and body wise, and the other 5-15% for  enjoyment of life in a body!
you can leave a response,  ortrackback from your own site.
© carina goodrich diet, nutrition and many other important topics are discussed in great detail during our regular live tele-class programs.
chromium aids in the process of glucose  uptake in insulin receptors, affecting spleen function and other blood sugar  issues.
add ½ teaspoon of baking soda for each cup of honey.
wow carina, i just found your blog because i did a search on cinnamon – ever time i use it, i find that my night vision improves.
website (optional) « keeping your child in clear eyesight transition glasses  and their role in vision improvement » © 2012 janet  goodrich method
chromium is a nutrient that already tends to be a bit scarce particularly  in the standard modern diet.
with four sweet tooths (or is it teeth?) in the  house, we definitely get through the honey.
eating raw local honey in this manner (harvested within a 50  mile radius) can also help relieve the symptoms of pollen related allergies.
the boost to your blood sugar level that comes with  white sugar is hard and fast, then quickly drops you in the energy and mood  trough, looking for the next hit.
a lack of chromium has been  demonstrated to be a significant factor in the development of  myopia.
if you know of any more honest  suggestions, please don’t hesistate to publish them.
my favourite, honey, is the oldest known sweetener and has many health  benefits when eaten raw.
website (optional) « keeping your child in clear eyesight« keeping your child in clear eyesight
so i was intrigued by this.
i’ve eaten honey as part of my  healhty diet whilte i was restoring my vision.
nathan wolfe (via trackback)
50 + is very good, 10 –  poor (this is what most honey you’l see in your shop today is)
your body actually craves complex  foods, which provide energy to burn for hours, and minerals to keep all the  cell processes going.
sucrose level – the less, the better (you get some artificial sugar  added sometimes to add weight etc – watch that!)
these derive from its antibacterial qualities and the presence of small amounts of pollen (which is very high in nutrients).
,-’ i was also reading somewhere that the bees are becoming extinct, there getting something called the bee flu
when finding substitutes for sugar, ensure that they are  natural products, which your body will be able to enjoy, process and eliminate  without harmful side effects.
your information is safe and secure.
foods which contain biologically available chromium include: brewer’s yeast, liver, wheat germ (fresh), whole wheat, beetroot, thyme and mushrooms.
do you have any comments about cinnamon or any awareness of  its affects for vision?
if you know of any more honest suggestions, please don’t hesistate to publish them.
foods which contain biologically available chromium include: brewer’s
here are some useful things to  know about honey… there are different types of it, and here’s what  makes honey good: diostase level – the higher the better.
the effect of white sugar leaching already  scanty chromium supplies in the body is of major concern in our modern world  where sugar is packed into just about every kind of processed food imaginable,  and in much higher quantities than our bodies were designed to cope with.
please remember that artificial sweeteners are usually toxic and we do not  recommend them.
there are several reasons.
it is interesting to note that the world health organization listed processed sugar as one of the five substances to which citizens of industrial nations are addicted.
aside from the fascinating world
i just finished reading ‘beekeeping for dummies’, like  obviously many other (crazy?) folk, i am excited by the idea of  ‘growing’ and harvesting my own honey.
sugar also affects your moods, meaning that a habit of going on the  ‘sugar hit’ rollercoaster can be rough on your state of mind and  those around you.
try increasing your nutritional mineral intake to help make a quicker transition from sugar cravings to good food cravings, and improve your energy levels.
with four sweet tooths (or is it teeth?) in the house, we definitely get through the honey.
to find out moreclick here.
honey is  the main sweetener we use, being able to find local fresh and raw honey out  here in the countryside.
sufficient levels of chromium allow the muscle around the lens to  sustain near focus as well as the ability to change focal length, for extended  periods.
prunes are good … leave a reply e-mail (will not be published , required)
eating raw local honey in this manner (harvested within a 50 mile radius) can also help relieve the symptoms of pollen related allergies.
even if you eat a generally healthy diet, containing plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables, pretty much eliminating white sugar from your diet will help your visual system to better achieve the required nutrient levels for good eyesight.
when used in baking honey helps baked goods stay fresh and moist longer.
these derive from its antibacterial qualities and the  presence of small amounts of pollen (which is very high in nutrients).
i found no references 8 the thing i like about stevia is that it is tooth friendly`,” 9 lyman mezzinni i have been hunting for honest suggestions on natural health and think that  your site is a great resource.
the most prominent in relation to refractive error has to do with a trace mineral called chromium.
my favourite, honey, is the oldest known sweetener and has many health benefits when eaten raw.
alternatives such as stevia (an herb  which is actually good for you, and many many times sweeter than sugar), maple  syrup and fruit juice concentrates are more and more available, and being  chosen by consumers as the facts about white sugar (and artificial sweeteners)
inbeekeeping for dummies , howland blackiston offers the following helpful advice: when  substituting honey for sugar in baking, follow these guidelines; reduce the amount of liquid in the recipe by ¼ cup for each cup of  honey used.
that honey opens your eyes to, and the amazing properties of other natural sugar substitutes, why avoid white sugar?
sugar also affects your moods, meaning that a habit of going on the ‘sugar hit’ rollercoaster can be rough on your state of mind and those around you.
i’ve eaten honey as part of my healhty diet whilte i was restoring my vision.
i used stevia extract as a sugar substitute because i am diabetic.
by carina goodrich why change to other sweeteners for good eyesight?
chromium is a nutrient that already tends to be a bit scarce particularly in the standard modern diet.
the boost to your blood sugar level that comes with white sugar is hard and fast, then quickly drops you in the energy and mood trough, looking for the next hit.
be aware that strong flavoured honeys may influence the taste, so  choose a mild flavoured honey for cooking.
that honey opens your eyes to, and the  amazing properties of other natural sugar substitutes, why avoid white sugar?
some of these are visible, such as blood sugar imbalances resulting in  behavioral changes, or obesity, but some effects are internal and only show  themselves through symptoms such as reduced vision.
when used in baking honey helps baked goods stay fresh and moist  longer.
moisture level – the less moisture a honey has, then better.
yeast, liver, wheat germ (fresh), whole wheat, beetroot, thyme and  mushrooms.
stores were found in the tombs of the egyptian pharaohs that were still edible!)
please remember that artificial sweeteners are usually toxic and we do not recommend them.
but i think i can use this information!
4 jonathan allen i used stevia extract as a sugar substitute because i am diabetic.
other things to thinlk about if you care about your health: - replace  white rise with borwn - replace whilte bread with brown - no solt - cut down or elliminate ocnsumption of milk, as your body abd bones only need  it mostly when youre still growing poll bregg is the guy to invetigate for healthy food.
white sugar blues by carina goodrich why change to other sweeteners for good eyesight?
particularly for children on a white sugar, white flour, even moderate amount of junk food diet, the sugar intake is enough to cause life-long effects.
whether you live in the city or the country, food producers are finding better ways to process and distribute natural foods that give sweetness without the negative side effects of sugar.
it is  interesting to note that the world health organization listed processed sugar  as one of the five substances to which citizens of industrial nations are  addicted.
the effect of white sugar leaching already scanty chromium supplies in the body is of major concern in our modern world where sugar is packed into just about every kind of processed food imaginable, and in much higher quantities than our bodies were designed to cope with.
stores were found in the tombs of the egyptian pharaohs that were  still edible!)
whether you live in the city or the country, food producers are finding  better ways to process and distribute natural foods that give sweetness without  the negative side effects of sugar.
it is not easy to find savvy ideas on the web, but i think i can use this information!
some of these are visible, such as blood sugar imbalances resulting in behavioral changes, or obesity, but some effects are internal and only show themselves through symptoms such as reduced vision.
1 teaspoon per day of raw honey as a nutritional  supplement.
it’s something to do with it’s age.
7 oskar i am must say very nice article.
i think it’s gonna be waffles now and then pf changs!
be aware that strong flavoured honeys may influence the taste, so choose a mild flavoured honey for cooking.
aside from peanut butter, as heather mentioned, i also like a couple tbsp grated coconut, or a banana and cinnamon, or raisins, apricots, or any kind of nut in any combo.
,-’ 6 vitamin i was also reading somewhere that the bees are becoming extinct, there  getting something called the bee flu
particularly for children on a white sugar, white flour, even moderate amount  of junk food diet, the sugar intake is enough to cause life-long effects.
a lack of chromium has been demonstrated to be a significant factor in the development of myopia.
i will like to encourage for good the work you have been doing.
(honey also keeps very  well.
do you have any comments about cinnamon or any awareness of its affects for vision?
i just finished reading ‘beekeeping for dummies’, like obviously many other (crazy?) folk, i am excited by the idea of ‘growing’ and harvesting my own honey.
50 + is very good, 10 – poor (this is what most honey you’l see in your shop today is)
ask at your local supermarket and health food store for their range of  natural sugar substitutes.
be aware that often a craving for sugar indicates a lack of minerals  in the body.
for all of my life, ‘alternative’ sweeteners have been the norm, due to my mother’s interest in nutritional health and good eyesight.
everyday remind yourself that food is both your fuel and what all the new cells in your body are made from.
for all of my life,  ‘alternative’ sweeteners have been the norm, due to my  mother’s interest in nutritional health and good eyesight.
white sugar in the body sneaks into the mineral reserves and steals away chromium.
it is not easy to find savvy ideas on the web,
(honey also keeps very well.
chromium aids in the process of glucose uptake in insulin receptors, affecting spleen function and other blood sugar issues.
11 responses i am in ghana and i visited your website today and am glad and impressed i did.
so i was  intrigued by this.
inbeekeeping for dummies , howland blackiston offers the following helpful advice: when substituting honey for sugar in baking, follow these guidelines; ask at your local supermarket and health food store for their range of natural sugar substitutes.
honey is the main sweetener we use, being able to find local fresh and raw honey out here in the countryside.
and when they return back to the hive they actually infect the entire hive and that is slowly killing off the bee population.
where  did you find the information regarding who listing sugar as an addictive  substance?
when finding substitutes for sugar, ensure that they are natural products, which your body will be able to enjoy, process and eliminate without harmful side effects.
other things to thinlk about if you care about your health: - replace white rise with borwn - replace whilte bread with brown - no solt - cut down or elliminate ocnsumption of milk, as your body abd bones only need it mostly when youre still growing poll bregg is the guy to invetigate for healthy food.
many cultures ingest approx.
reduce the oven temperature by 25 degrees (f) to prevent overbrowning.
sufficient levels of chromium allow the muscle around the lens to sustain near focus as well as the ability to change focal length, for extended periods.
food is also a comfort and a pleasure.
stevia  is really sweeter than sucrose.~– 5 nathaniel wood a healthy diet will always be composed of high fiber frutis and veggies,  low sugar, low carb and rich in protein.
i am must say very nice article.
where did you find the information regarding who listing sugar as an addictive substance?
sugar can easily be replaced by honey.
i wish to update on your matters every and then .god bless y.
try increasing your nutritional mineral intake to help make a  quicker transition from sugar cravings to good food cravings, and improve your  energy levels.
11 responses 1 george tawiah i am in ghana and i visited your website today and am glad and impressed i  did.
alternatives such as stevia (an herb which is actually good for you, and many many times sweeter than sugar), maple syrup and fruit juice concentrates are more and more available, and being chosen by consumers as the facts about white sugar (and artificial sweeteners) continue to emerge into the mainstream.
the most prominent in relation to refractive error  has to do with a trace mineral called chromium.
i found no references the thing i like about stevia is that it is tooth friendly`,” i have been hunting for honest suggestions on natural health and think that your site is a great resource.
remind yourself that food is both your fuel and what all the new cells in your  body are made from.
1 teaspoon per day of raw honey as a nutritional supplement.
its really sad because so many people depend on honey and its natural ingreadents for many things..