- artificial flavors and artificial colors – food additives have been linked to behavioral problems in children.
combine that with daily exercise and i weigh within two pounds of my weight in high school.
- what’s in your shampoo?
like tea, coffee imparts maximum benefits when you take it straight up.
enriched white flour just means that a few isolated and synthetic vitamins and minerals have been added back into the flour.
“…the current food system — characterized by monocultures of corn and soy in the field and cheap calories of fat, sugar and feedlot meat on the table — is not simply the product of the free market.
- about - contact - articles - index - copyright and disclaimer verda vivo verda vivo means “green life” in the universal language of esperanto.
drying produce with a clean towel may further reduce bacteria that may be present.
christmas tree recycling helps return a renewable resource back to the environment.
another reason not to eat pork is that factory hog farms are some of the worst polluters in america’s history.
tags: diet, greasy food, high fat food, nutrition my husband
the dumb thing about s.m.a.r.t. goals is they thwart breakthrough innovations.
what if we set d.u.m.b. goals to solve worldwide problems like climate change, thegreat pacific garbage patch or alternative energy sources?
a couple of pumps later and it foamed up nicely.
depending on where you live you can drop off greeting cards at your localfresh & easy neighborhood market until january 20, 2009 for recycling.
reward farmers for planting cover crops.
reuse greeting cards as ornaments, bookmarks or gift tags.
- 5 ways to clean your toilet naturally - flapper failure flushes dollars down the toilet - questionable convenience - donate your prom dress recent comments - verda vivo on book review: shift your habit - beautiful girl on book review: shift your habit - shelly hardage-wilkerson on book review: shift your habit - giselle on 14 reasons not to drink soda - lorraine gardner on 14 reasons not to drink soda categories select category beauty and fashion (32)
it tasted great going down.
powered by wordpress.com
this site reflects my passion for environmental issues, climate change, conservation, pollution, recycling, organics and "going green".
- ditch the soda habit - food additives cause hyperactive behavior - high fructose corn syrup is natural - natural sweeteners – how sweet they are - poison shrimp cocktail enjoy this post?
to find a christmas tree recycling event near you, click on earth 911′sgreen your holidays.
let people know where their food comes from and how it got there; set an example at the white house from the chef, to choice of regional foods to a garden on the east lawn.
now, mind you i’ve had philly cheesesteaks before that tasted great and didn’t make my stomach hurt.
all afternoon i could feel the knot in my stomach.
remove bows and ribbon.
organic means that crops are generally grown without synthetic pesticides, artificial fertilizers, irradiation (a form of radiation used to kill bacteria), or biotechnology.
type in batteries and your zip code in the recycling section.
- artificial sweeteners – as many as 194 million americans regularly eat and drink sugar-free products.
comments (3) you are what you eat december 7, 2008 filed under: food, health — verda vivo @ 9:42 pm
read more at my about page.
in an open letter to the next farmer in chief, recently published in the  new york times, author michael pollan addresses what he believes  president-elect obama needs to do to repair the american food system.
carbonated soft drinks are the worst offenders in the american diet.
try combining cooled green tea half and half with a fruit juice, such as peach, pineapple or papaya.
method doesn’t sell foaming hand soap refills for their dispensers and i don’t want to buy a new dispenser every time one runs out.
- rebuild america’s food culture – create a national initiative to educate our children about food; plant gardens in elementary schools; increase school lunch spending by $1 per pupil per day so they can eat real, not fast, food; have the surgeon general assume the role of educating the american public about food instead of the usda; push for transparency in food labeling, including the cost in terms of oil, chemicals, the feedlot, the slaughter house.
- a recent newspaper article highlighted a new one for me, bradsdeals.
pigs harbor a range ofparasites and diseases that can be transmitted to humans.
this would work with just about any clear liquid soap including dish detergent.
the process produces trans fats.
i had a philly cheesesteak, pretty unusual for me.
should high grain prices persist  and shortages develop, you can expect to see the pendulum shift decisively away  from free trade, at least in food.
in everyday work, applying these criteria is a highly effective way of ensuring that the goals are good ones and are likely to deliver results.
in fat, it reduces ghrelin hormone levels, which tell you “i’m still hungry”.
simply type christmas tree and your zip code in the search box to find a recycling event near you.
while i have eliminated most of the foods on his list, there are some that surprised me, like skim milk.
normally i would have had a salad but the place we went to looked like all they might have is iceberg lettuce.
dilute fruit juice with plain or sparkling water.
why did this happen?
and i went out to eat for breakfast today.
then, of course, there are the wish lists of folks on my gift-giving list.
of course there’s the problems associated with excessive drinking.
it turns up in some unlikely places, such as pizza, bread, hot dogs, boxed rice mixes, soup, crackers, spaghetti sauce, lunch meat, canned vegetables, fruit drinks, flavored yogurt, ketchup, salad dressing, mayonnaise, and some peanut butter.
federal food procurement; create a federal definition  of “food”; open food subsidy programs to farmers’ markets and  csa’s.
- coupons.com – run by coupons inc., with more than 900 clients, including general mills, kraft foods and pillsbury.
the food issue december 31, 2008 filed under: environment, food ,green — verda vivo @ 9:05 am tags: agriculture, diet, factory farming, fast food, food culture, food issues, monoculture, usda, western diet
green tea is best but even regular black tea has health benefits and is much better for you than soda.
since i shop the perimeter of the grocery store, i don’t find many coupons for fresh produce.
as a result: it takes 10 calories of fossil-fuel energy to produce a single calorie of  modern supermarket food.
related posts: - recycle used clothing - christmas catalog crush enjoy this post?
here are some resources and ideas to help.
comments (4) alternatives to soda december 29, 2008 filed under: food, health — verda vivo @ 3:10 am tags: coffee, flavored water, fruit juice, soda, tea, water
no more crayfish for me, thanks.
the crayfish went crazy, coming out of their hiding places from all over, to devour the tasty goodness.
caffeine yes, full stomach no.
blend and pour over ice.
watch bill moyers’ interview with michael pollan enjoy this post?
- pasteurized, homogenized skim milk – this one surprised me.
avoid creamy liquid soaps since they do not foam up.
we have little control over the safety of imported foods.
most of the commercial ones are primarily vinegar anyway
- in the past several months more than 30 nations have experienced food riots, and so far one government has fallen.
resources: - coffee health risks: for the moderate drinker, coffee is safe says harvard women’s health watch - the world’s healthiest foods – green tea - wikipedia: water related posts: - ditch the soda habit - just don’t drink it - plastic bottle battle - skip the water, have a soda instead enjoy this post?
even though i love shrimp, i don’t eat much of it after researchingpoison shrimp cocktail.
subscribe by email search for: watch videos at vodpod and other videos from this collection.
comments (3) holiday recycling december 29, 2008 filed under: holidays — verda vivo @ 10:09 am tags: batteries, catalogs, charity, christmas cards, christmas tree, conservation, holidays, junk mail, recycle, recycling, waste management, wrapping paper why recycle during the holidays?
- pass it on – has your child outgrown that toy from last year?
the human body is anywhere from 55% to 78% water depending on body size.
of course, few people actually go through that much actual table sugar, but it is found in almost all of the processed foods we eat.
to reduce your exposure to pesticides, choose organic options for dirty dozen, the 12 fruits and vegetables with the highest pesticide load.
i never thought much about what crayfish eat until my sister’s dog pooped in the water.
you should even wash produce that will be peeled before eating.
anything else can be put in the recycling bin.
health authorities recommend that consumption of trans fat be reduced to trace amounts.
the value of unattainable goals, authored by dustin wax of stepcase lifehack, exhorts us to createdangerously unattainable, monstrously big goals.
but when my sister wants new sheets and towels, it’s time for a little online shopping.
after cars, the food system uses more fossil fuel than any other sector of  the economy, ranging from 19% to as much as 37%.
add slices of fruits or vegetables — lemons, oranges, watermelon, cucumber, mint, or limes — to a pitcher of ice-cold water for a refreshing and flavorful drink.
if you’re avoiding caffeine choose herbal or decaf teas.
related posts: - artificial sweeteners – how sweet are they?
leave a comment best way to wash your produce december 1, 2008 filed under: food, green — verda vivo @ 6:00 am tags: dirty dozen, organic, pesticides, veggie spray, veggie wash there are three reasons why you should wash your produce: sand and/or grit from the field; residual pesticides and bacteria.
or click on earth 911′sgreen your holidays.
- after cars, the food system uses more fossil fuel than any other sector of the economy, ranging from 19% to as much as 37%.
a strategic  grain reserve;regionalize
the consumption of trans fats increases one’s risk ofcoronary heart disease by raising levels of “bad” ldl cholesterol and lowering levels of “good” hdl cholesterol.
- reregionalize the food system – create four-season farmers markets;create agricultural enterprise zones so that local farmers can operate with less red tape than the largest producers; create local meat-inspection corps for regional slaughter facilities;establish
let people know where their food comes from  and how it got there; set an example at the white house from the chef, to  choice of regional foods to a garden on the east lawn.
most can be recycled, but to a point.
blogging (7) business (2) cars (15) energy (6) environment (121) family (26) food (63) garden (21) green (212) health (73) holidays (19) home (89) personal (6) politics (4) recycling (49) technology (14) transportation (26) travel (6) uncategorized (2) archives select month march 2010 july 2009 june 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 blogging resources - blogging basics 101 - is.gd - mylivesignature - one cool site - paint.net - problogger blogroll - best green blogs - cheap like me - dot earth (ny times) - eco-compass (island press) - enviroblog - green daily - green grounded - green living ideas - green options - grist - sustainable development and much more… - sustainablog - the golden art gallery - treehugger - verda vivo cooks shop green - big green purse - consumer reports: greener choices - freecycle - great green goods - reusablebags.com - swaptree - the daily green webroll - change.gov - earth 911 - environmental defense - environmental news network - food and water watch - how can i recycle this?
rather, it is the product of a specific set of government policies that sponsored a shift from solar (and human) energy on the farm to fossil-fuel energy.”
if you bought a live christmas tree, be sure to plant it.
comments (7) click for online savings december 15, 2008 filed under: family, food, holidays, home — verda vivo @ 9:23 am tags: coupons, discounts ,shopping
the presence of these diseases and parasites is one of the reasons why pork meat should always be well cooked or cured before eating.
- the 2.65 billion christmas cards sold each year in the u.s. could fill a football field 10 stories high.
do not fill the dispenser above the foaming mechanism as this will also cause clogging.
as a result: - it takes 10 calories of fossil-fuel energy to produce a single calorie of modern supermarket food.
umm, all that grease, cheese and meat.
i dislike most prepared foods and normally shop the perimeter of the grocery store.
sorry, nutrition folks, i only eat when i’m hungry.
although you can use pre-washed, bagged produce without further washing, as an extra measure of caution, you can wash the produce again just before you use it.
plus, while i love dr. bronner’s soap, the dispenser i was using would clog just enough to squirt the soap onto my clothes instead of my hands.
- coolsavings.com – run by q interactive, whose business partners range from pillsbury and hersey’s to best buy and wal mart.
fructose does not stimulate leptin, the hormone that tell you “i’m full”.
tips for fresh produce comments (4) welcome to verda vivo.
although i’m a fan of the philosophy “buy less, live more”, i live in the real world so have to shop to eat and clothe myself.
this is at the heart of all three problems.
replacing soda with water can help you slim down: in 2006, researchers for the obesity society examined weight-loss data and discovered that those who completely replaced sweetened drinks with water lost an additional five pounds a year.
- batteries - visit waste management’s think green from home website where you can purchase a recycling kit for batteries.
- hydrogenated oils – during the hydrogenation process, hydrogen gas in injected into oil under high pressure to make the oil solid at room temperature and prevent the oil from becoming rancid too quickly.
theme: rounded by release.
the deliberate contamination of our food presents a national-security threat.
verda vivo means “green life” in the universal language of  esperanto.
if we each sent one card less, we’d save 50,000 cubic yards of paper.
i opted out last year and only received one christmas catalog this year.
- subsidized monocultures of grain also led directly to monocultures of animals michael pollan’s proposals: - resolarize the american farm – commodity farmers should instead be encouraged to grow as many different crops — including animals — as possible.
while i’m not a vegetarian, i’ll think twice before buying any more pork.
losing weight on your list of resolutions this year?
wondering what to do with the christmas tree?
consumers can have their names removed by writing epsilon data services, po box 1478, broomfield, colo., 80038 or by e-mailing their name and address to abacusoptout@epsilon.com for u.s. or abacusoptout_ca@epsilon.com for canada.
using separate cutting boards for meat and vegetables decreases the chance of cross-contamination.
i’d rather eat my own cooking.
nitrates can turn into nitrites which have been found to cause cancer and tumors in test animals.
here are some healthy alternatives to soda: - tea.
my name is daryl warner laux.
and oysters, clams or mussels in arizona?
the author has reviews on some sites which are helpful.
then, transfer to a spray bottle with a pump.
even if the label says “zero trans fat”, the fda allows manufacturers to have less than 0.5 grams of trans fat per serving and still legally use the term “zero trans fat”.
- junk mail opt out - natural resources defense council - nature conservancy - organic consumers association - skin deep: cosmetic safety database - stopglobalwarming.org - the golden art gallery - the green guide – national geographic - watersense meta - register - log in - entries rss - comments rss - wordpress.com blog at wordpress.com.
dustin’s point, however, is about risk-taking.
this includes  chemical  fertilizers (made from natural gas), pesticides (made from petroleum), farm  machinery, food processing, packaging and transportation.
the average american eats up to three pounds of sugar every week.
rss comments rss wp follow follow “verda vivo” get every new post delivered to your inbox.
so much for truth in labeling.
make municipal composting of food and yard waste mandatory and distribute the compost free to farmers.
the deliberate  contamination of our food presents a national-security threat.
s.m.a.r.t. goals don’t stretch your creativity, imagination and inventiveness beyond what is currently known or invented.
- white flour – white flour is white because the wheat has been stripped of the wheat germ, bran, and half of the healthy fatty acids and then bleached.
- wrapping paper – save and re-use what you can.
pigs are also known to host large concentrations of parasitic ascarid worms in their digestive tract.
agricultural enterprise zones so that local farmers can  operate with less red tape than the largest producers; create local  meat-inspection corps for regional slaughter facilities;establish
excerpts below are from his letter: if we wish address major problems such as health care crisis, energy independence or climate change, we will have to change the the way that we currently grow, process and eat food in america.
you can also make your own sugar-free juice or fruit-infused water.
well, except for the triple shot latte my husband makes.
the fda advises against washing fruits and vegetables with soap or detergent or using commercial produce washes.
coffee has been credited for reducing the risk of everything from parkinson’s disease to colon cancer to headaches.
i saw thisfoaming hand soap savings tip on tip hero.
- shellfish and crustaceans – lobsters, crabs, shrimp, clams, mussels, oysters, crayfish and scallops are bottom scavengers or filter feeders.
i’ve often wondered why humans are the only species that drink the milk of another animal.
spray mixture on produce, and rinse thoroughly after 5 to 10 minutes.
plus, if they worked, why are so many americans fat?
most trees can be cut down (usually to about 3′ segments) and placed in your yard waste bin.
resources: - environmental working group: foodnews - fda:
whether or not artificial sweeteners are “safe” for our health, why consume an artificial product when a natural one if available?
coincidentally, national health care spending increased to 16% since 1960.
make  municipal composting of food and yard waste mandatory and distribute the  compost free to farmers.
place these colorful fruit cubes in your beverage for flavor and color.
so the philly cheesesteak was a huge departure and a big mistake.
another option is to put chopped-up fruit in an ice cube tray, add water, and freeze.
brew green tea with thinly sliced ginger and lemon, or sprigs of spearmint.
you can bet that the large brand names are shifting more dollars from traditional coupons in publications to internet print coupons.
the food issue december 31, 2008 filed under: environment, food ,green — verda vivo @ 9:05 am tags: agriculture, diet, factory  farming, fast food, food culture, food issues, monoculture, usda, western diet
comments (2) the value of unattainable goals december 30, 2008 filed under: environment, green — verda vivo @ 6:00 am tags: climate change, energy, global warming, water pollution get d.u.m.b.!
- four of the top 10 killers in america today are chronic diseases linked to diet: heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes and cancer.
plus i usually play tennis first thing in the morning and doing that on a full stomach is not my idea of fun.
your small intestine releases bicarbonate to neutralize these acids and enzymes, in effect limiting their territory in the digestive system to the stomach, where they are most needed.
four of the top 10 killers in america today are chronic diseases linked to  diet: heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes and cancer.
wash hands for 20 seconds with warm water and soap before and after preparing fresh produce.
this includes chemical fertilizers (made from natural gas), pesticides (made from petroleum), farm machinery, food processing, packaging and transportation.
if you drink just one 12-ounce soft drink a day, you’re consuming 55,000 calories of the stuff in a year.
method okay, this is one of those times when i could smack my head and say “doh!”
- christmas tree – according to the national christmas tree association, between 25 and 30 million “fresh-cut” christmas trees are sold in the united states every year.
i try to support local artisan’s when i can
instead of throwing it away, or storing it on a garage shelf, donate the toy to your localsociety of st. vincent de paul, salvation army, goodwill, the arc, savers or value village or purple heart.
my spouse loves method foaming hand soap.
for more information, click onabacus opt out.
however, when these criteria are used to set goals for innovation, they can spell failure.
he concedes that some might be controversial.
fructose propels the liver into fat-promoting mode by activating the formation of enymes that lead to elevated levels of “bad” cholesterol and triglycerides.
flocked and artificial trees cannot be recycled.
he had a mushroom, olive and onion omelet.
rebuild america’s food culture – create a  national initiative to educate our children about food; plant gardens in  elementary schools; increase school lunch spending by $1 per pupil per day so  they can eat real, not fast, food; have the surgeon general assume the role of  educating the american public about food instead of the usda; push for  transparency in food labeling, including the cost in terms of oil, chemicals,  the feedlot, the slaughter house.
however, his book was written for folks who are trying to lose weight and alcohol in all its forms is highly caloric.
fresh & easy will donate the proceeds from the sale of the recycled cards to american forests, a non-profit organization that works to plant trees in restoration areas throughout the country and raise awareness about the benefits of trees and forests.
when i do i always shop the sale rack.
now my normal lunch fare is an apple and a chunk of cheese, maybe some bread if i’m really hungry.
if your greeting cards have any metallic or glitter material on the front, it cannot be recycled.
if the ingredient list contains the words “shortening”, “partially hydrogenated vegetable oil” or “hydrogenated vegetable oil”, then the food contains trans fat.
i’m not as diligent about clipping grocery coupons.
- christmas catalogs – avoid future deluges of catalogs.
the problem with hfcs is that the body handles fructose differently than all other sugars.
pigs will scavenge and have been known to eat any kind of food, including dead insects, worms, tree bark, rotting carcasses, garbage, and even other pigs.
i usually don’t eat breakfast because i’m not hungry at 6 am when i get up.
that being said, i still have a nonfat latte every morning and love my cheese.
harvard researchers found that drinking around six cups of coffee a day can diminish the likelihood of developing type 2 diabetes by as much as 54 percent for men and 30 percent for women.
- all pork products – pigs are omnivores, which means that they consume both plants and animals.
according to thefda, hydrolyzed protein is used to enhance flavor and contains monosodium glutamate.
ban the use of antibiotics in animal feed and regulate animal waste from feedlots just like pollutants from any factory.
let’s hope president-elect barack obama is listening.
these include trichinosis, taenia solium, cysticercosis, and brucellosis.
look for whole-grain breads or flour as a healthy alternative.
coincidentally,  national health care spending increased to 16% since 1960.
the bicarbonate turns into carbon dioxide, some of which is released as gas.
to function properly, the body requires between one and sevenliters of water per day to avoid dehydration; the precise amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors.
when added this way, the labels are not required to list msg as an ingredient.
subscribe in a reader  orby email.
in the past several months more than 30 nations have experienced food  riots, and so far one government has fallen.
religious groups that consider pork unclean refer to these issues as support for their views.
ban the use of antibiotics in animal feed and regulate  animal waste from feedlots just like pollutants from any factory.
they have also been associated with allergies and skin rashes.
if every family in the u.s. reused just 2 feet of holiday ribbon, the 38,000 miles of ribbon saved could tie a bow around the entire planet.
federal food procurement; create a federal definition of “food”; open food subsidy programs to farmers’ markets and csa’s.
you’ll findpricegrabber.com, retailmenot, and ebates among others.
- white sugar – sugar–including sucrose, corn sweeteners, honey, and molasses–is, in a sense, the number-one food additive.
or consider donating it a local school or nursing home to plant on their grounds.
by the time i was done my stomach was churning.
i love dr. bronner’s liquid castile soap.
get your own pocket guide from theenvironmental working group.
excerpts  below are from his letter: if we wish address major problems such as health care crisis, energy  independence or climate change, we will have to change the the way that we  currently grow, process and eat food in america.
most of this is ingested through foods or beverages other than drinking straight water.
since raw milk has risks based on the sanitary practices of the farm where it is produced, the next best thing is cultured or fermented dairy whole-milk products, such as yogurt and kefir.
i worked in the corporate world where yearly goals were specific, measurable, achievable, realistic/relevant, and tangible/time-bound, in other words,s.m.a.r.t.
the potential benefits of tea ranges from fighting cancer and promoting fat loss, to protecting against coronary artery disease and building bone.
- processed meats and hydrolyzed soy protein – processed meats contain nitrates for flavor, color and as a preservative.
- soft drinks – soft drink are empty calories with little or no nutritional value, considering most are made with high-fructose corn syrup.
when i lived in oregon, we would go upriver to swim and catch crayfish.
contact epsilon data services, an international company that maintains data bases used by mail order and catalog companies.
“failure is the foundation of success, and the means by which it is achieved.”
juice is great, but many mass-produced brands have additives such as high fructose corn syrup that increase the calorie count (a large 16-ounce glass of orange juice contains about 240 calories).
- americans throw away 25% more trash between thanksgiving and new year’s than any other time of year –that’s 5 million additional tons of garbage.
- beer, wine and alcoholic drinks – this one pains me since i do like my glass of wine in the evening.
goals that are audacious and set us up for failure.
veggie cleaner spray - 1 cup water - 1 cup distilled white vinegar - 1 tablespoon baking soda - 1 tablespoon lemon juice combine all ingredients in a large container – the baking soda will make the solution foam up.
i can’t remember the last time i paid retail for clothing.
- high-fructose corn syrup – manufacturers use hfcs because it’s cheap.
this is at the heart of all  three problems.
comments (6) diy foaming hand soap december 16, 2008 filed under: green, home — verda vivo @ 6:00 am tags: dr. bronner's, foaming hand soap, hand soap,
subsidized monocultures of grain also led directly to monocultures of  animals michael pollan’s proposals: resolarize the american farm – commodity farmers  should instead be encouraged to grow as many different crops — including  animals — as possible.
“…the current food system — characterized by  monocultures of corn and soy in the field and cheap calories of fat, sugar and  feedlot meat on the table — is not simply the product of the free market.
foods high in fat like fried foods, cheeses, and dishes prepared with lots of butter prompt your digestive system to produce higher levels of stomach acids and enzymes in order break them down.
with 38.6 million americans using on-line coupons this winter, coupon clicks are soaring.
hydrolyzed soy protein usually contains a significant amount of genetically modified soy.
in an open letter to the next farmer in chief, recently published in the new york times, author michael pollan addresses what he believes president-elect obama needs to do to repair the american food system.
instead of skim milk, mr. rubin recommends unpasteurized milk from grass-fed animals instead of homogenized, pasteurized milk.
rather, it is the product of a specific set of government policies that  sponsored a shift from solar (and human) energy on the farm to fossil-fuel  energy.”
if you drink one can of soda per day, you will consume 55,000 extra calories in one year, or 15 pounds of weight gain.
steer clear of breakfast links, hot dogs, salisbury steaks, bologna, sausages, salami, and lunch meats of all kinds.
i find soft drinks too sweet for my taste.
if you feel the need to use a veggie spray, make your own.
i weaned myself from my diet mountain dew habit over a year ago and feel much better as a result.
remember the2006 e. coli outbreak from fresh spinach?
thefood and drug administration recommends washing fruits and vegetables under running water just before eating, cutting or cooking.
top posts - 5 ways to clean your toilet naturally - 14 reasons not to drink soda - top 10 world's worst pollution problems - the real cost of free plastic bags - about recent posts - book review: shift your habit - 12 food additives to avoid - mend it yourself - the big bread lie - what’s in your drain cleaner?
you can also choose fruits with a high water content, such as grapes, pineapples, watermelons, or oranges.
i poured an inch of dr. bronner’s liquid soap in the bottom of an empty method foaming hand soap container, filled the rest with water and shook it gently to mix it.
subscribe in a reader orby email.
check with your local waste management company.
it is not clear how much water intake is needed by healthy people, though most advocates agree that 6–7 glasses of water (approximately 2 liters) daily is the minimum to maintain proper hydration.
in fact i usually don’t eat anything until about lunch.
the greatest successes are the result of the greatest risks.
i’d rather drink water.
all in all, i follow most of mr. rubin’s recommendations.
begin preparing produce with clean hands.
you’ll find it in soda, fruit juice, baked goods, canned fruits, dairy products, cooks, gum, jam, jellies, pickles…you get the picture.
this one, though, tortured my stomach from the inside.
should high grain prices persist and shortages develop, you can expect to see the pendulum shift decisively away from free trade, at least in food.
oh, something to look forward to… enjoy this post?
usually when i was ready to walk out the door.
comments (5) the dirty dozen december 11, 2008 filed under: food, green, health — verda vivo @ 5:43 pm tags: artificial colors, artificial sweeteners, high fructose corn syrup, hydrogenated oils, hydrolyzed soy protein, milk, pork, raw milk, shellfish, soft drinks, white flour, white sugar jordan rubin, author of “perfect weight america” lists the “dirty dozen” food items that we all should avoid for better health.
plus all i wanted to do was lie down and take a nap.
paper with glitter and foil type of paper should be re-used or thrown out.
a strategic grain reserve;regionalize
what would happen if we encouraged the kind of thinking where anything is possible?
reregionalize the food system – create four-season  farmers markets;create
- probargainhunter.com ranks popular price comparison and coupon sites.