yes,i use artificial sweetener because i love to eat sweet and still i do not want to add more calories to my body,it is best way to diet - —guest mahesh lohar love them - i use splenda.
i don't believe they're good for me, but i'm diabetic and in my case i think sugar would be worse.
- —guest sandra hate them!
artificial sweeteners - love them
i haven't heard of anyone dying from splenda  poisoning, but diabetes and obesity are #1 killers!
- low fat, high flavor recipes shereen jegtvig nutrition guide - sign up for my newsletter related searches stevia sweetner natural sweetner diet sodas artificial sweeteners artificial sweetener sugar addict explore nutrition must reads most popular - how to lose weight - calculate your calorie need - good nutrition: is your diet healthy?
i also avoid sugar alcohols.
- —guest dori bon sweeteners - i ve been using sweeteners for a long time.
- about.com - health - nutrition nutrition search free nutrition newsletter!
not a fan of equal or sweet & low; they  seem to leave an after taste.
- i use splenda, sweet n low (for tea only), and occasionally stevia.
we live with enough chemical exposure in our daily lives, why add  to that exposure by ingesting yet another chemical?
discuss in my forum readers respond: artificial sweeteners - love them
i recently tasted the stevia sweetner, although it's suppose to be natural the after taste is just as bad as the artifical sugars.
we comply with the honcode standard for trustworthy health information: verify here.
i use locally produced honey or stevia mostly.
- —kay what are your thoughts?
- —guest stanely sweeteners - i use natural sweeteners like xylitol, honey, maple syrup, and molasses.
user agreement artificial sweeteners related articles - are artificial sweeteners safe? - artificial sweetener reference chart - does splenda cause cancer?
- —dlinokc diet soda
you  couldn’t be more mistaken.
i haven't heard of anyone dying from splenda poisoning, but diabetes and obesity are #1 killers!
- i have discovered truvia which has the stevia in it and it is sweeter and supposedly natural.
again, that has not been scientifically proven, but i prefer to avoid it.
i actually don't like sugary  soda now - it's too sweet.
or hate them i use date sugar in as many foods as i can...
—guest edwina172 hate them i believe the philosophy if man made it don't eat it.
responses: 28 by shereen jegtvig, about.com guide
honey is my very favorite natural sweetner, i love a good cup of tea honey and lemon.
manufacturers, marketers and others with financial interests have successfully convinced millions of consumers the chemicals used in artificially sweetened products are safe.
you couldn’t be more mistaken.
they cause flatulence and seem to run my sugar up as much or more that things with real sugar.
i actually don't like sugary soda now - it's too sweet.
again, that has  not been scientifically proven, but i prefer to avoid it.
a part of the new york times company.
i recently tasted the stevia sweetner, although it's suppose  to be natural the after taste is just as bad as the artifical sugars.
- i can't drink any of the diet sodas wtih aspartame in them, they give me a headache.
i dont want to feed potential cancer cells in my body with sugar.
it's also healthy as it's  completely natural & has fiber.
by category - artifical sweeteners - weight loss - calories - what's in your food - nutrition for ages and stages - nutrition and weight loss - nutrition and health issues - shopping and meal planning - cooking and food safety - dietary supplements - questions and answers - share your stories and tips - test your nutrition knowledge nutrition - about.com - health - nutrition also from about.com: - most popular - latest articles - rss - calorie count - nutrition database - advertise on about.com - our story - news & events - work at about - sitemap - all topics - reprints - help - write for about - user agreement - ethics policy - patent info.
guest name* login with member name or register response title response email (optional) receive a one-time notification when your response is published.
i don't like  the way it makes me feel.
(continued from page  1)
i  don't believe they're good for me, but i'm diabetic and in my case i think  sugar would be worse.
i do make a point of avoiding aspartame and agava because  of things i've read.
- —rosyview honey is a wonderful sweetner - i do not like artificial sweetners, the after taste really ruins the flavor of foods.
i use 10-12 pellets a day, mostly in tea and coffeee, which is under the dangerous amount for human being.
it’s not pleasant to learn that corporations, government-sponsored regulatory agencies and politicians are more interested in lining their pockets than protecting your health.
they cause flatulence and seem to run my sugar up as much or more  that things with real sugar.
i like diet soda because it has no calories.
- privacy policy - your ad choices ©2012 about.com.
don’t believe them! .
i do make a point of avoiding aspartame and agava because of things i've read.
these are serious issues that you must consider for you and your family’s safety.
- artifical sweeteners - weight loss - calories (continued from page 1)
—guest beth gp you might be convinced you’re doing the right thing for your health  and the health of your family by using products artificially sweetened.
what are your thoughts?
manufacturers, marketers and others with financial interests have successfully  convinced millions of consumers the chemicals used in artificially sweetened  products are safe.
sign up - nutrition - eat right - weight management - diet and health
—guest stanely i use natural sweeteners like xylitol, honey, maple syrup, and molasses.
- —guest beth gp - you might be convinced you’re doing the right thing for your health and the health of your family by using products artificially sweetened.
i dont want to get extra calories from the sugar.
- —guest tina user of artifical sweetners - i use splenda in coffee and in cooked oatmeal - the taste is good with no after taste.
i dont want to get extra  calories from the sugar.
i try to eat only  natural foods.
i also avoid sugar  alcohols.
see more about: before acting on this information, check with your health provider.
- —guest artificial sweeteners -
- honey aphrodisiac photo - honey as an aphrodisiac food - rosemary new potatoes - vegetarian food - what is flavor?
see more about: - water calculator - how much water to drink a day - women's caloric intake calculator - men's daily caloric need - calorie calculators - how do i gain weight?
it's also healthy as it's completely natural & has fiber.
i try to eat only natural foods.
not a fan of equal or sweet & low; they seem to leave an after taste.
while it has not been established, there is at least some  evidence from reputable sources that aspartame is a neurotoxin.
love them i use splenda.
—guest artificial sweeteners
- —guest edwina172 hate them - i believe the philosophy if man made it don't eat it.
i use splenda, sweet n low (for tea only), and occasionally stevia.
the history of honey as food.
i dont want to feed potential cancer cells in my body  with sugar.
for now, just keep in mind that  the reason you feel products containing artificial sweeteners are safe is a  direct result of deliberate deception on the part of big business and  government.
we live with enough chemical exposure in our daily lives, why add to that exposure by ingesting yet another chemical?
these are  serious issues that you must consider for you and your family’s safety.
previous16-28 of 28 - i like diet soda because it has no calories.
the taste is super delicious.
i don't like the way it makes me feel.
it can leave a grittiness in some foods.
while it has not been established, there is at least some evidence from reputable sources that aspartame is a neurotoxin.
i plan to start using splenda in baking where sugar is required to  minimize the use of white sugar.
—guest tina user of artifical sweetners i use splenda in coffee and in cooked oatmeal - the taste is good with no  after taste.
- —elfinbaker love them or hate them - i use date sugar in as many foods as i can...
i plan to start using splenda in baking where sugar is required to minimize the use of white sugar.
- hydration calculator - what are anti-inflammatory foods?
post my response on facebook when it's published.
updated march 03, 2010 this content is not monitored by about.com's medical review board.
—elfinbaker love them
i use 10-12 pellets a day, mostly in tea and coffeee, which is  under the dangerous amount for human being.
yes,i use artificial sweetener because i love to eat sweet and still i do  not want to add more calories to my body,it is best way to diet —guest mahesh lohar
it’s not pleasant to learn that  corporations, government-sponsored regulatory agencies and politicians are more  interested in lining their pockets than protecting your health.
i was a sugar  addict and recently discovered gymnema that is helping me break that addiction.
—guest sandra hate them!
honey is  my very favorite natural sweetner, i love a good cup of tea honey and lemon.
i have discovered truvia which has the stevia in it and it is sweeter and  supposedly natural.
—guest dori bon sweeteners i ve been using sweeteners for a long time.
i was a sugar addict and recently discovered gymnema that is helping me break that addiction.
- buttermilk fruit sherbet - healthy college cooking - honey history -
it can leave a grittiness  in some foods.
—rosyview honey is a wonderful sweetner i do not like artificial sweetners, the after taste really ruins the  flavor of foods.
i treat sugar like its a drug, and avoid it.
for now, just keep in mind that the reason you feel products containing artificial sweeteners are safe is a direct result of deliberate deception on the part of big business and government.
i can't drink any of the diet sodas wtih aspartame in them, they give me  a headache.