lots of good varieties.
to explain how this works, imagine trying to talk to your spouse while the kids are screaming, the television is blaring, and the dog is barking to go outside.
here you’ll find some sites that we think you’ll appreciate, just click the links over[...]…… [...]
now, let the dog out, turn off the television, and settle the kids down with a snack and a game and your spouse will finally be able to hear you!
gems form the internet… [...]very few websites that happen to be detailed below, from our point of view are undoubtedly well worth checking out[...]…… websites we think you should visit… [...]although websites we backlink to below are considerably not related to ours, we feel they are actually worth a go through, so have a look[...]…… sites we like… [...]
agricultural research magazine.
…… websites you should visit… [...]below you’ll find the link to some sites that we think you should visit[...]…… recommeneded websites… [...]
the idea of using this special ingredient medicinally is far from new.
naturally yours, the sherpa that’s
i … hi… it’s hard to find knowledgeable people on this topic, but you sound like you know what youfre talking about!
there are no miracle cure-alls, silver bullets, or magic pills that will get you trim, fit and healthy, but after anexhaustive search and rigorous testing, the sherpa has pinpointed a few natural health therapies that do help and ferreted out the scams to avoid...you may be shocked by what we've discovered.
after four months, the group taking cinnamon experienced a 10.3 percent reduction in blood sugar, compared to the placebo group’s drop of 3.4 percent.
yep, lowered…as in, eat dessert anddecrease your glucose levels.
and we aren’t quite sure what a “goog job” looks like, but the capsules should work out just fine.
trackback for this post… [...]
is it against the diabetes.
[...]… looking around…
…… read was satisfying, read here…… [...] do not ever smoke a cigarette or consume alcohol as they can definitely induce heartburn.
this is due, in large part, to the fact that cinnamon powder has much of the essential oils removed during processing.
thanks… thank you… i was very pleased to find this web-site.
you understand, a lot of people are searching around for this info, you can aid them greatly….
thanks for an excellent article… thanks v good article well done i do love cinnamon.
2001 aug; 20(4): 327-36.
thanks for the information.
pretty unlikely your spouse can pay attention, right?
cinnamon: can eating apple pie lower your blood sugar?
either way, do these 2 things
i take a few hundred mgs of b6 every day now and it controls these and also helps me to lose wt without trying.
in one double-blind, placebo-controlled study4, researchers gave 60 volunteers with type 2 diabetes either 1, 3, or 6 grams of cinnamon powder (or placebo) in capsules after meals each day for 40 days.
maybe i should put more.
i love the examples of ways to incorporate cinnamon into our diets on an everyday basis.
good for sharing this info to the public it has to be cinnamon verum (such as ceylon cinnamon), not the common cinnamon found in supermarkets.
we are glad to help.
under are some webpages worth checking out[...]…… recent additions…… [...] down further you’ll find the link to many sites that many of us presume you need to have a look at [...]… awesome website… [...]the time to read or visit the content or sites we have linked to below the[...]…… links… [...]sites of interest we have a link to[...]…… best additions… [...]
about us request a review
the first group received an aqueous extract of cinnamon (the equivalent of 3 g of cinnamon powder) while the second group was given a placebo.
and, when cells are better able to hear insulin’s message; and can better absorb and use glucose, the result is lower blood glucose levels.
2jarvill-taylor, kj, et al.
naturally yours, the sherpa rod, there are two types of cinnamon: cassia and ceylon.
“don’t put too fine a point to your wit for fear it should get blunted.”
…… websites worth visiting… [...]here are some links to sites that we link to because we think they are worth visiting[...]
related…… [...]just beneath, are numerous totally not related sites to ours, however, they are surely worth going over[...]
though this sounds great in theory, let’s see if the studies support the hypothesis.
i personally like natural remedies instead of medications, great.
it replaces cinnamon somewhat in egg nogs.
to get the full benefit of cinnamon, you must take it in capsule format (not in apple pie).
natural health sherpa llc makes no representation and assumes no responsibility for the accuracy of information contained on or available through this web site, and such information is subject to change without notice.
happy cinnamonny diet.
the news isn’t all good… while the research on cinnamon and its ability to lower blood sugar levels is fairly well established and accepted, even in conventional circles, there are some potential problems having to do with precisely which form of cinnamon is safe and effective to use.
listed are some of the sites we highly recommend for our site visitors
that’s about the amount you would sprinkle on your oatmeal in the morning.
mine is low enough so guess i have to use ginger more instead!
but if you turn down the noise (i.e. improve glucose metabolism), your cells can hear the message and allow the insulin receptors to be more responsive.
now any time a person looks at the latest fashion assertion, it is usually measurement zero
so this must be normal right.
2006 may; 36(5): 340-4.
is there any way you can remove me from that service?
all i hear is a bunch of whining about something that you coul… thank you… i was very pleased to find this web-site.
intimacy is okay with type-2 diabetes.
hey!… spot on with this write-up, i truly think this website needs much more consideration.
references: 1mackenzie, debora.
all i hear is a bunch of whining about something that you coul… arigatou… hello!
these oil compounds from the bark are known to be toxic when taken at high doses for long periods of time.
sounds good, but it was only 40 days.
type 2 diabetes is caused by your body becoming resistant to the effects of insulin.
that wasn’t even the reason i did it…i love this spice!
… great blog… the next time i read a blog, i hope that it doesnt disappoint me as much as this one.
…… related…… [...]just beneath, are numerous totally not related sites to ours, however, they are surely worth going over[...]…… recommeneded websites… [...]here are some of the sites we recommend for our visitors[...]…… bing results… while browsing a lot bing and aol i very much happily found this interesting page in the search results and i did think it would match… recent blogroll additions…… [...]usually posts some very interesting stuff like this.
anyone who has to resort to using these “tiny text” tactics has plenty to hide – what are you hiding???
in fact, he was hoping to show that apple pie would dramatically increase blood glucose levels.
superb website… [...] remarkable story, reckoned we could combine a number of not related data, nevertheless really worth taking a look, whoa did one find out about middle of the east possesses more problems just as well [...]… superb webpage… [...]
very interesting information.
2000 july; 48(7): 21.
…… sources… [...]check below, are some totally unrelated websites to ours, however, they are most trustworthy sources that we use[...]
and i have you bookmarked to check out new stuff you blog post….
enter your email address above to receive our weekly reviews of safe, effective natural therapies.
but is it bad to use too much of it?
hello… you have a great blog here!
i am diabetes grade 2.
good article… covers a lot of info left out in other articles i’ve seen about the benefits of using cinnamon to help control blood sugar.
cinnamon improves insulin sensitivity… more specifically, dr. anderson discovered that cinnamon contains a polyphenol called methylhydroxy chalcone polymer (mhcp)2 that can improve the metabolism of glucose in fat cells twentyfold3.
not a bad way to start the day.
lots of males and females have total-time characteristic and are gonna be undertaking a profession switch [...]… aborted… fantastic article and certainly assists with learning the subject matter much better….
all the time go after your heart.
since it would be unreasonable for us to list and you to read them all, here are a few of the most intriguing.
german researchers wondered the same thing.
celeste, consumption of cinnamon has definitely been shown to be effective (as evidenced by the above studies), though certainly a supplement would be effective as well.
i will be coming back to your blog for more soon….
we are glad to help you find great, every-day uses for this amazing spice.
perhaps you are having a problem with your browser settings making text on here seem small?
claim your 3 free reports on natural ways to lose weight, simply enter your primary email address below and get all three free reports that can dramatically improve your health.days copyright © 2012 natural health sherpa llc
definitely a must try.
naturally yours, the sherpa thanks for the insights!
in their double-blind, placebo-controlled study, they tested the effect of cinnamon on patients with type-2 diabetes who were taking oral diabetes medication5.
i loved this article.
using an in vitro (think test tube) cell culture, researchers found that the bioactive polymer in cinnamon stimulated glucose uptake and glycogen synthesis to a level comparable to that achieved by insulin.
take a look if you want[...]…… bonjour… you should take part in a contest for one of the best blogs on the web.
thanks… hi… it’s hard to find knowledgeable people on this topic, but you sound like you know what youfre talking about!
the information mentioned in the article are some of the best available [...]…… [...]the information mentioned in the article are some of the greatest available [...]…… awesome website… [...]the time to read or visit the content or sites we have linked to below the[...]
great blog… the next time i read a blog, i hope that it doesnt disappoint me as much as this one.
i just would like to give a huge thumbs up for the great info you have here on this post.
it’s also the variety most researchers have used when they’ve studied cinnamon and diabetes.”
in other words, the tasty spice worked as well as the medication…at least in a laboratory.
awesome website… [...]the time to read or visit the content or sites we have linked to below the[...]…… cool sites… [...]we came across a cool site that you might enjoy.
you may be surprised to learn that this special ingredient is something that you’ve likely used dozens, if not hundreds of times before:cinnamon.
having been burned ourselves many times in the past, we decided toshare our in-depth research into the natural therapies and programs we've either researched or purchased and directly tested ourselves.
“actions lie louder than words.” by carolyn wells….
…… links… [...]sites of interest we have a link to[...]…… … [trackback]… [...] read more: naturalhealthsherpa.com/cinnamon-lower-your-blood-sugar-type-2-diabetes/52382 [...]… great post… i saw this great post here, thank you… websites worth visiting… [...]here are some links to sites that we link to because we think they are worth visiting[...]…… excellent blog here!
do you like this story?
…… websites you should visit… [...]below you’ll find the link to some sites that we think you should visit[...]…… [...]
that’s how insulin resistance/insulin responsiveness works.
by miguel de cervantes…. http://www.bebup.com/about... practical parenting… superb website… [...]always a big fan of linking to bloggers that i love but don’t get a lot of link love from[...]…… useful and precise… it is incredibly super hard to find real honest and quality informative and accurate fresh info but today about noon i happily found… weebly article… i saw a nice guy talking in a good way about this interesting stuff on diggg and it linked today right to… hey… very nice post, i certainly love this website, keep on it… thank you… this really answered my problem, thank you!
there are no miracle cure-alls, silver bullets, or magic pills that will  get you trim, fit and healthy, but after anexhaustive search and rigorous  testing, the sherpa has pinpointed a few natural health therapies that do help  and ferreted out the scams to avoid...you may be shocked by what we've  discovered.
and as always, check with your doctor when adding any herb, spice, or supplement to your medical regimen.
in fact, the blood sugar levels of the volunteers who received cinnamon were an average of 20 percent lower than were those of volunteers in the placebo group.
i having been using cinnamon every day for a few years now.
i mean, i know it was my choice to read, but i actually thought youd have something interesting to say.
i too had a non fasting test: so sugar would be raised, i guess.
they divided the participants into two groups.
”diabetes care 26 (2003): 3215-18.
keep away from big pharma
according to webmd (conventional of the conventional), “cassia cinnamon is the kind most americans use for baking and cooking.
i definitely enjoying every little bit of it
i love cinnamon and must be careful anymore because i’ve had “attacks” of low sugar and my heart beats rapidly to circulate my blood and bring up the levels.
so go ahead and sprinkle that common, supermarket cinnamon…just make sure it’s organic!
after reading, i decide to buy a sleeping bag asap… whoah this weblog is magnificent i like studying your posts.
“cinnamon spice produces healthier blood.”
naturally yours, the sherpa peggy, your grandmother had some pretty sage advice.
you are encouraged to confirm any information obtained from or through this web site with other sources, and review all information regarding any medical condition or treatment with your physician.
here are some of the sites we recommend for our visitors[...]…… tumblr… tumblr linked to this website… check this out… [...] that is the end of this article.
but, to help you incorporate it into your everyday life, here are a few suggestions: no matter how you use cinnamon, if you are either at risk for or have been diagnosed with type 2 diabetes, it is one spice you should get to know.
once again, less than a tablespoon of cinnamon seems to reduce blood sugar levels.
naturally yours, the sherpa it’s delish!
“in america, through pressure of conformity, there … tags: blood sugar, cinnamon, insulin resistance, methylhydroxy chalcone polymer, type 2 diabetescoconut oil: a nutrient powerhouse and metabolism booster we are a team of experienced natural health and fitness researchers who have grown sick and tired of hearing bogus, over-inflated claims made by companies hocking the latest so called "miracle" solutions.
chinese, ayurvedic and naturopathic medicine all utilize it for a variety of conditions, including nausea, bloating, gi upset, and libido enhancement.
naturally yours, the sherpa the only toxicity issues we’ve seen concern cinnamon bark, so go ahead and spread the cinnamon love!
best article… you have to read really interesting aricle… hey!… spot on with this write-up, i truly think this website needs much more consideration.
cinnamon also lowers blood pressure.
naturally yours, the sherpa hi, what do you mean cinnamon bark?
thanks i sprinkly 1/4 teaspoon on oatmeal.
so if everyone has a non fasting sugar test it is always going to be low – unless you have some sort of diabetise.
listed below are the latest sites that we choose [...]… websites we think you should visit… [...]although websites we backlink to below are considerably not related to ours, we feel they are actually worth a go through, so have a look[...]
related posts: love or hate this article?
looks like you’ve been well instructed!
naturally yours, the sherpa het werk van yesturdays voor morgen – een blik op sommige voorbeelden… werd getoond dit voorbeeld, via jon messer leef dagboek en veronderstel het om te zijn uiterst informatief en ook het punt… yesturdays work for tomorrow – a look at some examples… just noticed this example, via megan hardvalder on facebook and imagine it to be very informative and too the point… trabalho para o amanhã – um olhar de yesturdays em alguns exemplos… observado este exemplo, através de arnold hardvalder sobre linkedin e encontrado lhe para ser um tanto informativo e demasiado o ponto… check this out… [...]here are some of the sites we recommend for our visitors[...]… travail de yesturdays pour le demain – un regard à quelques exemples… noté cet exemple, par l’intermédiaire de david halign dessus linkedin et imaginez-le pour être extrêmement instructif et trop le point… travail de yesturdays pour le demain – un regard à quelques exemples… noté cet exemple, par l’intermédiaire de arnold mccormick dessus twitter et croyez-le pour être très instructif et trop le point… wide range of courses… [...]need to go on a course?
dr. anderson was as baffled as you likely are.
anyways cinnamon only adds flavor to your food or drink.
hey will, thanks for your comment — could you clarify what “tiny text” tactics you are talking about?
…… websites you should visit… [...]below you’ll find the link to some sites that we think you should visit[...]…… blogs ou should be reading… [...]here is a great blog you might find
want to know if there is a supplement in tablet form, that is safe, and would do a goog job?
how often could i meet a woman.
please your advice is needed.
you'll also instantly receive three special reports disclaimer: the information on this site is not intended or implied to be a substitute for professional medical advice, diagnosis or treatment.
it would be interesting to see this repeated in humans to determine if cinnamon would still perform as well as insulin in type 2 diabetics.
great news, it’s cinnamon in my coffee from now on.
all content, including text, graphics, images and information, contained on or available through this web site is for general information purposes only.
listed below are the latest sites that we choose [...]…… great post… i saw this cool post here, thank you… awesome website… [...]the time to read or visit the content or sites we have linked to below the[...]…… related…… [...]just beneath, are numerous totally not related sites to ours, however, they are surely worth going over[...]…… thanks…
the article was very informative and having a diabetic in the family, rest assure i will put cinnamon to use more extensively.
the information mentioned in the article are some of the best available [...]…… check this out… [...]
naturally yours, the sherpa thanks lianne!
just remember that cinnamon should be a tasty addition to your diabetes program…not the starring role.
from now on ,my breakfast will be oatmeal and cinamon.
of course, we can’t promise the same results with your spouse!
but maybe there is some strange browser compatibility issue that i am not aware of.
if you were not so chintsy with the size and boldness of your message, just maybe i (and others) would bother to read it.
there’s no “tiny text” that i can think of on our website.
here you’ll find some sites that we think you’ll appreciate, just click the links over[...]…… superb website… [...]always a big fan of linking to bloggers that i love but don’t get a lot of link love from[...]…… hard day… it was a hard day here yesterday, so i just took to messing around on the internet and found… great website… here are some of the sites we recommend for our visitors… you should check this out… i saw this really great post today….
every once in a while we choose blogs that we read.
when i originally commented i clicked the -notify me when new comments are added- checkbox and now each time a comment is added i get four emails with the same comment.
…… sites we like…… [...]
thank you for this wonderful info.
have a look and find one that is perfect for you[...]… rhymi3… fantastic blog post, saw on… gems form the internet… [...]very few websites that happen to be detailed below, from our point of view are undoubtedly well worth checking out[...]…… tumblr and digg… tumblr and digg just now linked to this super interesting place… visitor recommendations… [...]one of our visitors recently recommended the following website[...]…… news… i was reading slowly the reddit news and info and i saw this really super interesting and super fresh information… it is really hard these days to find enough support… my friend is truly constantly but in a rash manner saying that in all honesty that it is hard to really easily get some good online support, but there is… hard day… it was a really really tough day for me yesterday, so i decided just now to take to messing around for a while on the internet and very fast i realized… useful and precise… it is incredibly super hard to find real honest and quality informative and accurate fresh info but today about noon i happily noted… hard day… it was a really really tough day for me today, so i decided just now to take to messing around for a while online and very fast i found… yahoo news… when reading a lot on google and of course bing for the latest news just right now i happily noticed this… news… i was reading slowly the reddit news and info and i saw this really super interesting and super fresh topic… looking around… i am really into browsing quite much around here the really vast web, quite very much regularly i do usually go ahead to reddit and very simply follow through… useful and precise… it is incredibly super difficult to find real honest and quality informative and precise fresh information but today about noon i happily noted… bing results… while browsing a lot bing and aol i very much happily found this interesting page in the search results and i did think it would match… read was interesting, stay in touch…… [...] listed below you will find the link for some sites that a number of us feel you need to visit [...]… hard day… it was a really really tough day for me yesterday, so i decided just now to take to messing around for a while on the internet and very fast i realized… free google plus one votes… hi there, just wanted to tell you, i loved this blog post.
do you mean dried cinnamon sticks?
… great website… [...]we like to honor many other internet sites on the web, even if they aren’t linked to us, by linking to them.
… best article… that’s very fascinating post… must read… i read this really great article yesterday… online article…… [...]
1) share it with your friends 2) leave a comment below...
you definitely know how to bring an issue to light and make it important.
your email: simply enter your primary email address below and get all three free reports that can dramatically improve your health.
“a hydroxychalcone derived from cinnamon functions as a mimetic for insulin in 3t3-l1 adipocytes.”j
i wanted to thanks for your time for this wonderful read!!
… just looking… when i was browsing yesterday i noticed a great post about… roofing contractors… i genuinely enjoy looking at on this web site, it has good content.
the world hopes for more passionate writers such as you who are not afraid to mention how they believe.
it does this by reducing the insulin resistance of fat cells, making their insulin receptors more responsive.
b6 is a blood sugar leveler.
all of our articles have large, 14 point verdana text, intentionally larger than on most sites.
oils extracted from the cinnamon leaf are non-toxic.
he quickly realized that it was the cinnamon in the apple pie that was responsible for the lowering of blood glucose levels by acting on the true underlying cause of type 2 diabetes.
if you’re new to this site[...]…… useful and precise… it is incredibly super hard to find real honest and quality informative and accurate fresh information but today about noon i happily found… awesome website… [...]the time to read or visit the content or sites we have linked to below the[...]
how on earth could a sweet, baked pielower blood sugar levels?
can’t wait to try it out.
…… hi… it’s hard to find knowledgeable people on this topic, but you sound like you know what youfre talking about!
naturally yours, the sherpa i heard that these effects of cinnamon are eliminated by the saliva in your mouth.
“cinnamon improves glucose and lipids of people with type 2 diabetes.
“effects of a cinnamon extract on plasma glucose, hba, and serum lipids in diabetes mellitus type 2.”eur j clin invest.
interestingly, researchers also found that those participants taking the cinnamon also showed a decrease in triglycerides by as much as 30 percent and a decrease in total cholesterol ranging from 12 to 26 percent—and without any toxicity problems.
diabetes studies abound… as you can imagine, dr. anderson’s accidental discovery unleashed a whole host of studies on the connection between cinnamon, glucose, insulin, and diabetes.
would you like to make some invite posts on my blog?… konnichiwa… you can definitely see your skills within the work you write.
most products and therapies we review we do not recommend, but there are a few diamonds in the rough we've found that we've shared with you on this website.
the answer is yes, but only if it contains this one critical ingredient.
more people need to read this and understand this side of the story.
if there is too much insulin or “noise” in your bloodstream, your cells cannot hear the message.
putting cinnamon to use… cinnamon is so common, and so delicious, you are likely already using it.
to be even safer, you may choose to use a water-soluble versus oil-based form of cinnamon.
is cinnamon also suitable with type 1 diabetes?
the information mentioned in the article are some of the best available [...]…… [...]the information mentioned in the article are some of the greatest available [...]
as far as the “how often” question, you may want to discuss with your doctor.
i have been sprinkling cinnamon on cereal & into smoothies for the last few months as a steady thing & i have lost weight without changing anything else!
naturally yours, the sherpa v interesting.
enjoy that breakfast!
naturally yours, the sherpa you are more likely to find a cinnamon capsule than tablet.
thanks… hello… you have a great blog here!
dr. anderson was trying to discover the effect that apple pie had on blood sugar levels.
“cinnamon extracts boost insulin sensitivity.”
we use cinnamon in our kitchen and i remember my grandma’s advice on herbs and cinnamon was one of the most important among mint, black pepper, cumin, turmeric.
interesting that we encourage you[...]…… bored at work… i like to browse in various places on the online world, regularly i will just go to stumble upon and follow thru… read was interesting, stay in touch…… [...]please visit the sites we follow, including this one, as it represents our picks from the web[...]
some members of the cinnamon groups even achieved normal levels.
instead, they were lowered1 .
stay up the great work!
while i was browsing today i noticed a excellent post about… visitor recommendations… [...]one of our visitors recently recommended the following website[...]
i will recommend this site!… thanks… when i originally commented i clicked the -notify me when new comments are added- checkbox and now each time a comment is added i get four emails with the same comment.
what if the study was longer?
similarly, cinnamon powder has been shown to be safe, even when used often and regularly, with no shown toxicity or negative side effects.
would you like to make some invite posts on my blog?… thanks… can i just say what a relief to find someone who actually knows what theyre talking about on the internet.
well, this makes me feel great — i typically put in a few dashes of cinnamon in my organic coffee every morning for the taste…but now i know it’s doing some good things under the hood as well.
i like to know more about this spice its very interesting
now i’m looking forward to trying grinding the cinnamon in with coffee–yum!
all i hear is a bunch of whining about something that you coul… inspired… you are my inhalation, i have few web logs and rarely run out from brand :).
that is the end of this article.
would you like to make some invite posts on my blog?… hey!… spot on with this write-up, i truly think this website needs much more consideration.
no, completely the opposite: i had extremely low sugar levels after eating.
in other words, less than a tablespoon of cinnamon lowered blood sugar levels, decreased triglycerides, and reduced total cholesterol in just over one month without any negative side effects.
however, it was the accidental discovery of its benefits for treating and preventingtype 2 diabetes that has made this special ingredient one of the world’s most celebrated spices.
finally, researchers2 also tested the use of cinnamon versus insulin to encourage glucose metabolism.
the most effective way on how to deal with heartburn is to lower the spice materials [...]… recent additions…… [...] i’d personally tried over some blogs just for original ideas and i also did [...]… gems form the internet… [...]very few websites that happen to be detailed below, from our point of view are undoubtedly well worth checking out[...]…… gems from the internet… [...] plenty of time to read through or visit the content material or websites we have linked to further down the [...]… hi… it’s hard to find knowledgeable people on this topic, but you sound like you know what youfre talking about!
at the end of the study period, those taking the cinnamon (in any amount) enjoyed a decrease in blood sugar levels ranging from 18 to 29 percent.
ifll probably be again to read much more, thanks for that info….
all i hear is a bunch of whining about something that you coul… great blog… the next time i read a blog, i hope that it doesnt disappoint me as much as this one.
the most powerful method for reversing your type 2 diabetes requires substantial changes to your lifestyle including eating a diet chock full of nutrient-dense, low glycemic-load whole foods and to engage in moderate daily exercise.
by: the sherpa posted friday, dec. 10th, 2010155 comments is it possible that eating apple pie can actually lower your blood sugar?
the bottom line here is that cinnamon appears to help reduce this resistance.
the key terms here are “oil” and “bark”.
thanks… arigatou… hello!
the main issue has to do with numerous oil-based compounds—as well as such water-soluble ones such as mhcp—found in cinnamon bark.
i would like to know if this was a fasting test.
[...]… sources… [...]check below, are some totally unrelated websites to ours, however, they are most trustworthy sources that we use[...]
recommeneded websites… here you’ll find some sites that we think you’ll appreciate, just click the links over… recent blogroll additions… i saw this really good post today….
dr. anderson’s accidental discovery… while cinnamon was deemed to be more precious than gold by the ancient egyptians and considered to be a gift fit for a king by the romans and greeks, it was dr. richard anderson, a researcher at the u.s. department of agriculture, who made this sweet spice truly valuable.