blog at wordpress.com.
now, we have more evidence that relationship had improved: we have a presentation on the upcoming javaone conference oncomparing eclipse rcp platform and netbeans platform.
underneath the diplomatic language is an  undercurrent of disagreement.
i know people had been quietly comparing the two.
underneath the diplomatic language is an undercurrent of disagreement.
like this: be the first to like this post.
relation seems to take heading for the  worse whensun sent eclipse a dear john letter (unfortunately i cannot find any  link to eclipse’s reply).
there was no negative noise of disapproval and i tell myself that is a good sign.
this is great news indeed.
fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: email (required) (not published)
powered by wordpress.com
the line is very clearly drawn.
trackback uri fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: you are commenting using your wordpress.com account.
when that happens, i was watching for any signs from the netbean (a.k.a.
that work was and is legal, but has the potential to irk netbean.
the talks that time seems to be to merge both  eclipse and netbeans, … like pigs can fly!
you are commenting using your twitter account.
i know people had  been quietly comparing the two.
the benefit from this is huge, since we are talking  about the two most popular java ides.
first sign: mattisse was ported to eclipse.
the benefit from this is huge, since we are talking about the two most popular java ides.
the  invisible berlin wall between the two is showing signs of cracking.
personally, i prefer coexistance.
it is clear that both might be moving towards coexistances, rather than merging.
of course, when the two camps talk, we can built on both experience  for  better platforms.
sun) camp that it is not happy.
however, an open discussion is better.
it is clear that both might  be moving towards coexistances, rather than merging.
get every new post delivered to your inbox.
that work was and is  legal, but has the potential to irk netbean.
thawing relationship between eclipse and netbean filed under:  uncategorized — ctrambler @ 12:24 pm java ide camp used to be splited into two, and the ultimate sign of this  split is conferences:eclipsecon for eclipse camp, and javaone for the netbeans  camp.
trackback uri leave a reply cancel reply enter your comment here...
as the years passed and everyone grow older and mature, we all mellow.
you are commenting using your facebook account.
rss feed for comments on this post.
the talks that time seems to be to merge both eclipse and netbeans, … like pigs can fly!
cancel connecting to %s notify me of follow-up comments via email.
relation seems to take heading for the worse whensun sent eclipse a dear john letter (unfortunately i cannot find any link to eclipse’s reply).
when that happens, i was watching for any signs  from the netbean (a.k.a.
now, we have more evidence that relationship had improved: we have a  presentation on the upcoming javaone conference oncomparing eclipse rcp  platform and netbeans platform.
java ide camp used to be splited into two, and the ultimate sign of this split is conferences:eclipsecon for eclipse camp, and javaone for the netbeans camp.
leave a comment leave a comment » rss feed for comments on this post.
the invisible berlin wall between the two is showing signs of cracking.
there is nothing better than competition to deliver value to  consumer, i.e. me.
there was no negative noise of  disapproval and i tell myself that is a good sign.
there is nothing better than competition to deliver value to consumer, i.e. me.
of course, when the two camps talk, we can built on both experience for better platforms.
personally, i prefer  coexistance.