while the news that apple is tracking your every move might not come as a surprise to jaded technocrats, the idea that this information isn't even encrypted is somewhat unsettling.
you might also like popular on soa zone - why developers keep making bad technology choices - all java architects: read this - 12 cool html5 geolocation ideas - beer and pizza with facebook: learning their secrets... - oracle v google trial day 2: ellison testifies - when to use javafx 2 instead of html5 for a rich internet application (ria)?
rightscale and zend team up with new paas the new rightscale zend php  high availability solution pack, a platform created by the zend/rightscale,  will allow enterprise-level php applications to be deployed in the cloud.
average: 5 your rating: none average: 5 (1 vote) tags: published at dzone with permission of katie mckinsey , author.
thanks jettro  coenradie.
get an in depth comparison on three different cloud... birt 3.7 report design: eclipse-based bi and big data visualization eclipse business intelligence and reporting tools (birt) is an open source, eclipse-based reporting system that integrates with your java/j2ee... google app engine for java this dzone refcard provides an in depth introduction to the cloud computing technology, google app engine.
what refactoring is, and what it isn’t latest articles - restful web services using progress fuse esb 4.0 preview and spring dynamic modules - gateways and notifiers - enabling esb interoperability on the jboss soa platform - wso2 enterprise service bus (esb) performance testing - round 3 - top 10 soa pitfalls: #10 - not invented here syndrome - camel component for amazon sqs - fuse oss leaves the nest - restful soa with open source - rest – the good, the bad and the ugly - api gateway support for 'hypertext as the engine of application state' - the lazy man's comprehensive ravendb search - sunburn past, present, and future - how the cloud can assuage it challenges of bring-your-own-device - sensu monitoring handler sets - weekly cloud roundup!
for those who haven't heard, writer peter warden and hacker alasdair allan sharedevidence that apple is tracking all ios 4 users.
which bug reports did you file?
other improvements include support for oracle database, the inclusion of glassfish 3.1, and enhanced integration with oracle weblogic.
thanks jettro coenradie.
dzone has great portals forpython, cloud, nosql, and html5!
even developers who aren't currently  using java 7 will benefit from the netbeans update.
kate stewart, ubuntu's release manager, suggests that that currentubuntu 6.06 users upgrade to 'hardy heron' or ubuntu 8.04 lts.
even developers who aren't currently using java 7 will benefit from the netbeans update.
support is included for java, php, ruby and .net.
mapreduce star trek fan fiction web builder 3 breakthrough ways
- can windows phone pick up when android drops off?
i'm speaking as a long-time netbeans user, releasing it at this time was a mistake.
- follow us - rss - google + - facebook - linkedin - twitter — brian kernigan advertising - terms of service - privacy - © 1997-2012, dzone, inc.
- 6 command line tools for linux performance monitoring - tdd: do we really have to do it?
it should also be noted  that oracle removed netbeans 7's ruby on rails support in january, 2011.
to visualize html5 javalobby
although this version of the ubuntu server will be discontinued  in may, support will continue for two more years.
log in or join - home - refcardz - microzones - cloud zone - nosql zone - html5 zone - devops zone - enterprise integration - solr-lucene - windows phone - .net zone - python zone - zones - agile zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides and tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - php zone - groovy zone - ruby zone - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - links - snippets soa zone
shh… apple might be watching apple knows where you've been.
while the news that apple is  tracking your every move might not come as a surprise to jaded technocrats, the  idea that this information isn't even encrypted is somewhat unsettling.
- login or register to post comments edvin syse replied on thu, 2011/04/21 - 4:22pm
although this version of the ubuntu server will be discontinued in may, support will continue for two more years.
mckinsey katie is a dzone employee and has posted 81 posts at dzone.
average: 5 your rating: none average: 5  (1 vote) tags:
rightscale and zend team up with new paasthe new rightscale zend php high availability solution pack, a platform created by the zend/rightscale, will allow enterprise-level php applications to be deployed in the cloud.
email views: 26398 we recommend these resources migrating to fuse mediation router the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm nosql for
recommended resources configuring and running fuse esb micro focus silk performer micro focus silktest 2011 java enterprise performance nosql for the enterprise spotlight features birt 3.7 report design refcard - meet the author: michael williams how twitter does mysql - get their fork cretaceous cobol can spawn jurassic java heterogeneous computing is here, now around the dzone network architects
a standardized environment allows users to easily acclimate to the new system.
support ending for ubuntu server 6.06as of this june 2011, support will no longer be offered for ubuntu server 6.06.
- algorithm of the week: how to determine the day of the week - ansible: cm, deployment, and ad-hoc task execution all in one - spring integration project creation vs.
- apple - java - java 7 - netbeans - php - ubuntu - zend - infrastructure - tools & methods - open source (note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.) comments cowwoc replied on wed, 2011/04/20 - 6:27pm oracle rushed netbeans 7 out the door.
support ending for ubuntu server 6.06
desktop support for 6.06 was discontinued two years ago.
covering everything from the basics... - dzone - refcardz - book reviews - tech library - it questions - snippets - my profile - about dzone - advertise - tools & buttons - send feedback - topics - html5 - wp7 - cloud - mobile - .net - python - java - php - solr-lucene - eclipse - jetbrains - netbeans - agile - devops controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.
- requests in python and mongodb spotlight resources getting started with cloud computing
the jdk 7 component of netbeans 7.0 is technically an early access snapshot.
other improvements  include support for oracle database, the inclusion of glassfish 3.1, and  enhanced integration with oracle weblogic.
for your enjoyment: the basics of node.js.
the jdk 7 component of netbeans 7.0 is technically an early  access snapshot.
a standardized environment allows users to easily acclimate to the new  system.
there are way too many bugs for it to be usable (yes, i've been filing bug reports).
the enterprise java enterprise performance micro focus silktest 2011 oracle's newly released netbeans 7.0 features support for java 7 features.
for those who haven't  heard, writer peter warden and hacker alasdair allan sharedevidence that apple  is tracking all ios 4 users.
desktop support for 6.06 was  discontinued two years ago.
challenging the next wave of system engineers javalobby spring integration - payload storage via header en... mobile eventiles from start to finish: push notifications .net want to improve wcf?
a netbeans 7.0.1 release in october will feature the  final version of jdk 7.
they should have waited at least another month.
or, it might be more accurate to say that apple knows where your ipad or iphone has been.
apache camel project creation - 10 tips to avoid mental burnout - thursday code puzzler: solve the towers of hanoi - node.js and mongodb, a beginner’s
- login or register to post comments comment viewing options flat list - collapsedflat list - expanded threaded list - collapsedthreaded list - expanded date - newest firstdate - oldest first 10 comments per page30 comments per page50 comments per page 70 comments per page90 comments per page150 comments per page200 comments per page250 comments per page300 comments per page select your preferred way to display the comments and click "save settings" to activate your changes.
kate stewart, ubuntu's release manager,  suggests that that currentubuntu 6.06 users upgrade to 'hardy heron' or ubuntu  8.04 lts.
or, it might be more accurate to say that  apple knows where your ipad or iphone has been.
if you are looking for more information on cloud computing then this dzone refcard is for you.
a netbeans 7.0.1 release in october will feature the final version of jdk 7.
migrating to fuse mediation router the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm nosql for the enterprise java enterprise performance micro focus silktest 2011 oracle's newly released netbeans 7.0 features support for java 7  features.
view full user profile daily dose: netbeans 7.0 has java 7 support 04.20.2011
it should also be noted that oracle removed netbeans 7's ruby on rails support in january, 2011.
as of this june 2011, support  will no longer be offered for ubuntu server 6.06.