lyndsey clevesy bio lyndsey is a and has posted 139 posts at dzone.
his experience is in software architecture,  design, and server-side development.
attachment size about the author masoud kalali has a software engineering degree and has been working on software development projects since 1998.
dzone has great portals forpython, cloud, nosql, and html5!
he has authored multiple refcards, published by  dzone, including using xml in java, berkeley db java edition and glassfish v3.
sometimes it takes 2 days to do 2 hours of work - groovy, a reasonable jvm language for devops - developer efficiency - xcode vs. eclipse vs. visual studio - interfaces in dynamic languages - on useless testing... - dare to show your code - test driven development without tears latest articles - 5 techniques for creating java web services from wsdl - getting started with spring rcp - binding a jtable to swing controls in netbeans ide - getting further with spring rcp - how to create a swing crud application on netbeans platform 6.8 - taking the new swing tree table for a spin - netbeans & jpa with multiple persistence.xml files - developing android apps with netbeans, maven, and virtualbox - paint store price list generator on netbeans - netbeans weekly news (issue #527 - mar 5, 2012) - nunit’s new 'action attributes' feature is aop to your unit tests - introduction to log parser studio - visual studio installer projects: life after visual studio 2010 - final thoughts on s#arp lite - how to create multiview editors for nodes - analyzing s#arp lite - tasks spotlight resources groovy programming groovy is easy to start with.
he has experience with a variety of technologies (.net, j2ee, corba, and com+) on diverse platforms (solaris, linux, and windows).
the 10 commandments of good source control management json.org license literally says it "shall be used for good, not  evil" algorithm of the week: merge sort must-have tools for developers on windows: part 2 github was hacked over the weekend - here's what happened, from multiple  sources tweaking bayes’ theorem some useful java classes that you might not know about all the mouse events in javascript
masoud is author of glassfish security book published by packt and he is one of  founder members of netbeans dream team and a glassfish community spotlighted  developer.
- follow us - rss - google + - facebook - linkedin - twitter — brian kernigan advertising - terms of service - privacy - © 1997-2012, dzone, inc.
this dzone refcard will provide you with an in-depth  introduction to java ee security and what it can do for you.
sometimes it takes 2 days to do 2 hours of work
log in or join - home - refcardz - microzones - nosql zone - html5 zone - devops zone - solr-lucene - windows phone 7 - .net zone - python zone - zones - agile zone - cloud zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides and tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - links - snippets netbeans zone
lyndsey clevesy lyndsey is a and has posted 139 posts at dzone.
view full user profile get started with java ee security - free cheat sheet 05.17.2010 email views: 25139 we recommend these resources apache lucene 3.0: download the lucidworks certified distribution implementing enterprise integration patterns the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm innovate faster in the cloud with a platform as a service apache solr: download the lucidworks certified distribution click here to download your free dzone refcard on getting started with java ee security now!
view full user profile get started with java ee security - free cheat sheet 05.17.2010   email apache lucene 3.0:
java ee security supports a fine set of security functionalities in the specification level.
this dzone refcard will provide you with an in-depth introduction to java ee security and what it can do for you.
(note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the  opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.)
masoud is author of glassfish security book published by packt and he is one of founder members of netbeans dream team and a glassfish community spotlighted developer.
22841.png 36.52 kb your rating: 0 average: 2 (1 vote) tags: published at dzone with permission of lyndsey clevesy, author.
he has experience with a  variety of technologies (.net, j2ee, corba, and com+) on diverse platforms  (solaris, linux, and windows).
- application client - cheat - dzone - ejb - java - java ee - refcardz - security - sheet - web module - web services (note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.) recommended resources configuring and running fuse esb migrating to fuse mediation router implementing enterprise integration patterns apache solr: download the lucidworks certified distribution the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm spotlight features using solr cloud, for real!
this reference of best practices and idiomatic solutions smoothly guides you to the next step of... html5 canvas: a web standard for dynamic graphics - dzone - refcardz - book reviews - tech library - it questions - snippets - my profile - about dzone - advertise - tools & buttons - send feedback - topics - html5 - wp7 - cloud - mobile - .net - python - java - php - solr-lucene - eclipse - jetbrains - netbeans - agile - devops controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.
attachment size web services published at dzone with permission of lyndsey  clevesy, author.
masoud has published several articles at java.net and dzone.
how they did it: cut the rope in html5 hack neo4j on heroku for fun and profit around the dzone network web builder migrating from php to python and django javalobby node and callbacks cloud a step-by-step guide to scaling independently in t... mobile
how they did it: cut the rope in html5 hack neo4j on heroku for fun and profit around the dzone network web builder migrating from php to  python and django javalobby a step-by-step guide to scaling independently in t... mobile
download the lucidworks certified distribution the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm spotlight features using solr cloud, for real!
groovy, a reasonable jvm language for devops developer efficiency - xcode vs. eclipse vs. visual studio interfaces in dynamic languages dare to show your code test driven development without tears popular on netbeans zone 5 techniques for creating java web services from wsdl getting started with spring rcp binding a jtable to swing controls in netbeans
java ee security supports a fine set of security functionalities in the  specification level.
getting further with spring rcp how to create a swing crud application on netbeans platform 6.8 taking the new swing tree table for a spin netbeans & jpa with multiple persistence.xml files developing android apps with netbeans, maven, and virtualbox latest articles paint store price list generator on netbeans netbeans weekly news (issue #527 - mar 5, 2012) nunit’s new 'action attributes' feature is aop to your unit tests introduction to log parser studio visual studio installer projects: life after visual studio 2010 final thoughts on s#arp lite how to create multiview editors for nodes analyzing s#arp lite - tasks spotlight resources groovy programming groovy is easy to start with.
what ios 5.1 and the new ipad mean for web dev... architects exploring a graph representation of wikipedia usin... javalobby all about jms messages you might also like popular on netbeans zone - the 10 commandments of good source control management - json.org license literally says it "shall be used for good, not evil" - algorithm of the week: merge sort - must-have tools for developers on windows: part 2 - github was hacked over the weekend - here's what happened, from multiple sources - tweaking bayes’ theorem - some useful java classes that you might not know about - all the mouse events in javascript -
recommended resources configuring and running fuse esb migrating to fuse mediation router implementing enterprise integration patterns apache solr:
his experience is in software architecture, design, and server-side development.
what ios 5.1 and the new ipad mean for web dev... architects exploring a graph representation of wikipedia usin... javalobby
this reference of best practices  and idiomatic solutions smoothly guides you to the next step of... html5 canvas: a web standard for dynamic graphics dzone
masoud has published several  articles at java.net and dzone.
download the lucidworks certified distribution implementing enterprise integration patterns the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm innovate faster in the cloud with a platform as a service apache solr: download the lucidworks certified distribution click here to download your free dzone refcard on getting started with  java ee security now!
about  the author masoud kalali has a software engineering degree and has been  working on software development projects since 1998.
he has authored multiple refcards, published by dzone, including using xml in java, berkeley db java edition and glassfish v3.