stay tuned... nitin bharti - login or register to post comments nitin bharti replied on tue, 2009/03/03 - 2:14pm in response to: fremds
pretty much any other pdf reader should have this capability too.
the project, nicknamed eclipselink, is composed of a set of separate runtime components that run in both clients and servers, and is the first open-source project to offer a full suite of persistence technologies.
he shows examples of how to use eclipselink to map java objects in object-relational and object-xml contexts, and how it can be used in any runtime environment, including java se, java ee, spring and tomcat.
dzone has great portals forpython, cloud, nosql, and html5!
so is there a way to get the slides or a better video with slides on it?
- follow us - rss - google + - facebook - linkedin - twitter — brian kernigan advertising - terms of service - privacy - © 1997-2012, dzone, inc.
tags: published at dzone with permission of nitin bharti, author.
view full user profile the eclipse java persistence platform: eclipselink’s full monty 03.03.2009  email views: 10783 tweet
the only problem is that slide are neither shown in the video (e.g google videos or parleys) nor provide to download (e.g yui theater).
download slides (1.7 mb)
- springide - using spring in eclipse - create new eclipse workspace - with all your old settings - effective eclipse:
view full user profile the eclipse java persistence platform: eclipselink’s full monty 03.03.2009
this reference of best practices and idiomatic solutions smoothly guides you to the next step of... - dzone - refcardz - book reviews - tech library - it questions - snippets - my profile - about dzone - advertise - tools & buttons - send feedback - topics - html5 - wp7 - cloud - mobile - .net - python - java - php - solr-lucene - eclipse - jetbrains - netbeans - agile - devops controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.
in this presentation, recorded at eclipseworld 2008, oracle's peter krogh provides an overview of eclipselink, the standard technologies it implements, and how these technologies can be used separately or together to meet advanced and diverse application requirements.
using solr cloud, for real!
in this presentation, recorded at eclipseworld 2008, oracle's peter krogh  provides an overview of eclipselink, the standard technologies it implements,  and how these technologies can be used separately or together to meet advanced  and diverse application requirements.
the slides have been posted - http://java.dzone.com/sites/all/files/eclipslink_fullmonty_ew08-807.pdf - login or register to post comments de zb replied on tue, 2009/03/03 - 2:54pm any chance of having the slides in the pdf the right way around ?
spotlight features learn html5 in 5 minutes!
html5 canvas refcard around the dzone network d popular at dzone - 1:using key events effectively in eclipse rap - 2:webinar april 19th: "getting alm2.0+ to work" (with guest speaker from forrester research) - 3:episode 7: contests, acf10 beta, code school, & angelina jolie's leg - 4:introduction to osgi - 2 (osgi services) - 5:eclipse development team utopias created in 5 minutes - 6:java remote debugging on weblogic server with eclipse - 7:the incredibles: some of my favorite java tools.
he shows examples of how to use  eclipselink to map java objects in object-relational and object-xml contexts,  and how it can be used in any runtime environment, including java se, java ee,  spring and tomcat.
just can't read vertical - login or register to post comments kevin jordan replied on tue, 2009/03/03 - 3:52pm in response to: dzb right click on a page in adobe reader and click 'rotate clockwise'.
i have already see two of the presentation you posted here.
the announcement of eclipse’s java persistence  platform project signals the inauguration of a new generation of persistence in  which all of the dominant persistence standards are implemented and accessible  from a single source.
the project, nicknamed eclipselink, is composed of a set  of separate runtime components that run in both clients and servers, and is the  first open-source project to offer a full suite of persistence technologies.
- login or register to post comments miller roger replied on wed, 2009/03/04 - 5:17am in response to: nbharti78
thanks a lot for the slides.
the announcement of eclipse’s java persistence platform project signals the inauguration of a new generation of persistence in which all of the dominant persistence standards are implemented and accessible from a single source.
sorry for the inconvenience.
nitin bharti bio nitin is a and has posted 391 posts at dzone.
nitin bharti nitin is a and has posted 391 posts at dzone.
what ios 5.1 and the new ipad mean for web dev... architects exploring a graph representation of wikipedia usin... web builder resetting the database connection in django you might also like popular on eclipse zone - the 10 commandments of good source control management - algorithm of the week: merge sort - github was hacked over the weekend - here's what happened, from multiple sources - some useful java classes that you might not know about - all the mouse events in javascript - must-have tools for developers on windows: part 2 - sometimes it takes 2 days to do 2 hours of work - groovy, a reasonable jvm language for devops - developer efficiency - xcode vs. eclipse vs. visual studio - interfaces in dynamic languages - dare to show your code - on useless testing... - test driven development without tears - getting started with data mining - hibernate – please don't deprecate yourself latest articles - effective eclipse: shortcut keys
custom templates - who needs an online ide?
- database - eclipselink - jdbc - jpa (note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.)
- scripting eclipse with the monkey project: an introduction - discover eclipse's jface dialogs - tips and tricks for debugging in eclipse - paint store price list generator on netbeans - netbeans weekly news (issue #527 - mar 5, 2012) - nunit’s new 'action attributes' feature is aop to your unit tests - introduction to log parser studio - visual studio installer projects:
see more popular at dzone subscribe to the rss feed microsoft robotics developer studio 4 available fo... mobile another way of passing values between windows phon... cloud is so-called noops a by-product of paas?
there were all about topics i care.
that make it difficult to really follow the presentation.
- login or register to post comments nitin bharti replied on tue, 2009/03/03 - 2:03pm in response to: fremds hi fremds, i've pinged the presenter for his slide deck.
- login or register to post comments comment viewing options flat list - collapsedflat list - expanded threaded list - collapsedthreaded list - expanded date - newest firstdate - oldest first 10 comments per page30 comments per page50 comments per page 70 comments per page90 comments per page150 comments per page200 comments per page250 comments per page300 comments per page select your preferred way to display the comments and click "save settings" to activate your changes.
will get that up as soon as i receive it.
life after visual studio 2010 - final thoughts on s#arp lite - how to create multiview editors for nodes - analyzing s#arp lite - tasks spotlight resources html5 canvas: a web standard for dynamic graphics groovy programming groovy is easy to start with.
comments miller roger replied on tue, 2009/03/03 - 1:42pm
log in or join - home - refcardz - microzones - nosql zone - html5 zone - devops zone - solr-lucene - windows phone 7 - .net zone - python zone - zones - agile zone - cloud zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides and tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - links - snippets eclipse zone