- scripting eclipse with the monkey project: an introduction - discover eclipse's jface dialogs - tips and tricks for debugging in eclipse - netbeans weekly news (issue #527 - mar 5, 2012) - nunit’s new 'action attributes' feature is aop to your unit tests - introduction to log parser studio - visual studio installer projects:
custom templates - who needs an online ide?
what ios 5.1 and the new ipad mean for web dev... architects exploring a graph representation of wikipedia usin... web builder resetting the database connection in django you might also like popular on eclipse zone - the 10 commandments of good source control management - algorithm of the week: merge sort - github was hacked over the weekend - here's what happened, from multiple sources - some useful java classes that you might not know about - all the mouse events in javascript - groovy, a reasonable jvm language for devops - sometimes it takes 2 days to do 2 hours of work - developer efficiency - xcode vs. eclipse vs. visual studio - interfaces in dynamic languages - dare to show your code - on useless testing... - test driven development without tears - getting started with data mining - hibernate – please don't deprecate yourself - a collection of brilliant neo4j heroku challenge projects latest articles - effective eclipse: shortcut keys
this reference of best practices and idiomatic solutions smoothly guides you to the next step of... html5 canvas: a web standard for dynamic graphics - dzone - refcardz - book reviews - tech library - it questions - snippets - my profile - about dzone - advertise - tools & buttons - send feedback - topics - html5 - wp7 - cloud - mobile - .net - python - java - php - solr-lucene - eclipse - jetbrains - netbeans - agile - devops controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.
his experiment is part of a plan to have netbeans interoperate with osgi.
mauricio lopez mauricio is a and has posted 1 posts at dzone.
tags: published at dzone with permission of mauricio lopez, author.
comments fabrizio giudici replied on sun, 2010/03/07 - 6:16pm
check out the video: this bodes well for the java module system in jdk7.
we will see people creating "java modules" instead of  maven/netbeans/eclipse(equanox)/felix..... not that the dependencies wont still be there but there will be the  definition of a standard that will make it easier to pick and choose the best  components.
dzone has great portals forpython, cloud, nosql, and html5!
(note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.)
life after visual studio 2010 - final thoughts on s#arp lite - how to create multiview editors for nodes - analyzing s#arp lite - tasks - use windows 8 icons with segoe ui symbol spotlight resources groovy programming groovy is easy to start with.
his experiment is part of a plan to have netbeans interoperate  with osgi.
view full user profile netbeans running eclipse bundles?
we will see people creating "java modules" instead of maven/netbeans/eclipse(equanox)/felix..... not that the dependencies wont still be there but there will be the definition of a standard that will make it easier to pick and choose the best components.
email views: 4830 i was amazed to see jaroslav tulach demo netbeans running mylyn's bugzilla bundle.
- follow us - rss - google + - facebook - linkedin - twitter — brian kernigan advertising - terms of service - privacy - © 1997-2012, dzone, inc.
mauricio lopez bio mauricio is a and has posted 1 posts at dzone.
what is fascinating is that these module systems that were developed  independently for different purposes; yet, they have enough similarity that  they can be integrated so easily (not to trivialize jaroslav's work).
well, unfortunately this is not so easy.
views: 4830 tweet i was amazed to see jaroslav tulach demo netbeans running mylyn's  bugzilla bundle.
- login or register to post comments comment viewing options flat list - collapsedflat list - expanded threaded list - collapsedthreaded list - expanded date - newest firstdate - oldest first 10 comments per page30 comments per page50 comments per page 70 comments per page90 comments per page150 comments per page200 comments per page250 comments per page300 comments per page select your preferred way to display the comments and click "save settings" to activate your changes.
but the problem are the dependencies indeed; for instance, a refactoring module for eclipse and netbeans depends on the project model apis, that are very different in the two ides.
- springide - using spring in eclipse - create new eclipse workspace - with all your old settings - effective eclipse:
check out the video: http://wiki.apidesign.org/wiki/netbinox this bodes well for the java module system in jdk7.
spotlight features hack neo4j on heroku for fun and profit maven: great idea, poor implementation javascript profiling: html5 canvas around the dzone network d popular at dzone - 1:using key events effectively in eclipse rap - 2:webinar april 19th: "getting alm2.0+ to work" (with guest speaker from forrester research) - 3:episode 7: contests, acf10 beta, code school, & angelina jolie's leg - 4:introduction to osgi - 2 (osgi services) - 5:eclipse development team utopias created in 5 minutes - 6:java remote debugging on weblogic server with eclipse - 7:the incredibles: some of my favorite java tools.
see more popular at dzone subscribe to the rss feed microsoft robotics developer studio 4 available fo... mobile another way of passing values between windows phon... cloud is so-called noops a by-product of paas?
what is fascinating is that these module systems that were developed independently for different purposes; yet, they have enough similarity that they can be integrated so easily (not to trivialize jaroslav's work).
log in or join - home - refcardz - microzones - nosql zone - html5 zone - devops zone - solr-lucene - windows phone 7 - .net zone - python zone - zones - agile zone - cloud zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides and tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - links - snippets eclipse zone
you're right, component systems are a great advance in software technology and foster reuse; even when you have two different component frameworks, such as osgi and the netbeans platform, it's likely that they share enough common characteristic so that it's possible to have them to interoperate.