to try and speed eclipse up, i’ve taken the jvm settings that netbeans uses and applied them to eclipse.
the results were...james sugrue01/12/12
if you're familiar with eclipse...john esposito12/21/11 eclipse makes deployment easy -- now easy to the cloud as well, using the openshift eclipse plugin.
here is my list but...roger hughes10/10/11
the traditional debugger as we know it hasn't changed since the dawn of programming; which is to say it has remained pretty much the same since 1970s.
john esposito 02/15/12
lets take a deeper look at some of its fundamental design principals and whether they are still...
using regular expressions in eclipse to search and replace text in a file is a really useful way to make changes quickly to your code.
or you may be  chugging along with a free, open-source, but less-than-perfect ide, plugging  the functionality gaps with plugins that may or may not integrate perfectly.
in the last week i am very pleased to announce cloudbees and jaspersoft have both joined as a member of the eclipse foundation and both released new solutions for eclipse developers.
so, dzonistas: what features would an ideal ide have?rob williams01/16/12 after refusing much of any changes, especially the ugly testdecorator fixture, after testng showed up, junit went bonkers with a spasm of matching features.
what were the major events that have helped shape and drive the eclipse community.
being popular, there is an eclipse plug in available and this...singaram subramanian09/20/11 f you want to create any of these projects listed below using eclipse ide,veera sundar08/18/11 in eclipse, when you press ctrl button and click on any class names, the ide will take you to the source file for that class.
parameterized tests were in 3.8.1, but in 4.x, they were redone with annotations.
you may love your ide, but even the best ide can get better.
but, in case you want the same behavior for java’s core...
the results were... james sugrue01/12/12
0 replies efficient search and replace in eclipse with regular expressions using regular expressions in eclipse to search and replace text in a file  is a really useful way to make changes quickly to your code.
or you may be chugging along with a free, open-source, but less-than-perfect ide, plugging the functionality gaps with plugins that may or may not integrate perfectly.
prashant deva07/18/11
you can’t really compare 5 years and 3 months but i still believe that it...craig dickson10/21/11 this screencast shows how the amazonelastic beanstalk plugin for eclipse allows developers to directly deploy their java web applications from withinian skerrett10/17/11
last year it was indigo, this year it will be juno, and now the eclipse community is voting on a name for the eclipse release for june 2013.
john esposito 02/15/12 11 replies ask dz: what features would an ideal ide have?
as we get ready to celebrate 10 years of eclipse, i thought it would be interesting to look back on the major milestones in the eclipse community, ie.
for some people, it might be a surprise to have these companies join...
what features would an ideal ide have? rob williams01/16/12 0 replies an eclipse template for parameterized junit tests after refusing much of any changes, especially the ugly testdecorator  fixture, after testng showed up, junit went bonkers with a spasm of matching  features.
there have been a number of milestones that have shaped the eclipse community but what have been the major accomplishments?
in this screencast, grant shipley shows you how to do...david salter12/02/11 when compared to netbeans, i find that eclipse is a lot slower, particularly when doing enterprise development.
ian skerrett07/13/11
the result is a vast improvement in...ian skerrett10/27/11
this is the normal behavior for the classes you have in your project.
parameterized tests were in 3.8.1, but in 4.x, they were redone with  annotations.
the ever increasing popularity of git seems to know no bounds, which is not bad for something that’s named after a british english insult that’s only slightly more venomous than “idiot”1.
all you need to do is go to the poll, log in, and vote for your favorite name.
as i have written, eclipse is celebrating 10 years of open source and community during the month of november.
jakub holý10/25/11 after having worked with eclipse for over 5 years i’ve came to use intellij idea intensively on a j2ee project in three months and took this as an opportunity to compare the two.