listening such conversation and watching the raising offerings in the mailing lists i have only one conclusion: java market is dry, skilled java developers are becoming scarce.
nothing more natural than expect the  guys behind this technology monster to have a good life - or at least a  profitable life.
java platform produces a large  chunk of all software running in the global it market, supporting business at a  scale of billions of dollars every year.
but i can say that's the case for every profession in high demand.
ibm only qualifies for 2 out of 7 points, though nothing beats ibm's stability.
hire the java developers who lost their jobs during the recession.
use modern java technologies (still using java 1.4?)
- use modern java technologies (still using java 1.4?)
more: few days ago i was having a coffee with some colleagues and a manager confessed he is worried where to hire all resources he needs to allocate in the signed contracts for 2010.
setya - login or register to post comments frank silbermann replied on thu, 2010/01/07 - 1:04pm
felipe works with java since its early versions and has plans to keep that java tradition as it is.
- springide - using spring in eclipse - create new eclipse workspace - with all your old settings - effective eclipse:
up there, they're still recovering from recession.
you get into the situation that salaries are low, yet the company spends a lot of money on it.
give the developers more than water and coffee..
how much it costs for you to buy 1 coke per developer a day?
life after visual studio 2010 - final thoughts on s#arp lite - how to create multiview editors for nodes - analyzing s#arp lite - tasks - use windows 8 icons with segoe ui symbol spotlight resources html5 canvas: a web standard for dynamic graphics groovy programming groovy is easy to start with.
felipe gaúcho bio felipe gaúcho works as senior software engineer at netcetera ag in  switzerland.
eric rich flux - java job scheduler.
surely the link between what you eat and a psychological as well as chemical state of mind/brain exists and so the only 'valid' recommendation there was fruit.
eventually managers learn that 1 really good professional are worth tens of the mediocre kind... - login or register to post comments setya djajadinata replied on wed, 2010/01/06 - 11:45pm felipe, no matter how good you are or how hard you have worked on a project, if the project is not making money don't expect bonus or a raise, the management won't event think about it, since the success rate of a project does not depend on developers alone.
this year too (comes up every two years).
more: few days ago i was having  a coffee with some colleagues and a manager confessed he is worried where to  hire all resources he needs to allocate in the signed contracts for 2010.
just in case you are seriously looking for good java developers, some hints: - raise the salary (no excuses).
- don't try poor copies of google and ibm ideas, these companies are just richer than yours.
simple fact is: java is stillranking high in the it market, while all that hype revolutions are still hype promises.
certainly there are good jobs somewhere, but it is nothing compared to thejava is dead speech of three years ago.
- follow us - rss - google + - facebook - linkedin - twitter — brian kernigan advertising - terms of service - privacy - © 1997-2012, dzone, inc.
certainly there are good jobs  somewhere, but it is nothing compared to thejava is dead speech of  three years ago.
- login or register to post comments comment viewing options flat list - collapsedflat list - expanded threaded list - collapsedthreaded list - expanded date - newest firstdate - oldest first 10 comments per page30 comments per page50 comments per page 70 comments per page90 comments per page150 comments per page200 comments per page250 comments per page300 comments per page select your preferred way to display the comments and click "save settings" to activate your changes.
felipe is a dzone mvb and is not an employee of dzone and has posted 29 posts at dzone.
java market is dry, good developers are scarce..
- flexible working time and remote office should be available.
they're productivity goes down and the company tries to solve it by hiring consultants, architects and layers of managers.
when he is not coding, he prefers to listen reggae and travel around with his lovely wife alena and his son rodrigo.
- people are becoming lazy and dumb, everyday a bit more.
and the young developers that followed the hype?
:) eheh - login or register to post comments cloves almeida replied on wed, 2010/01/06 -
felipe  is a dzone mvb and is not an employee of dzone and has posted 29 posts at dzone.
google does get 5 out of 7.
people in general tends to accomodate and in tech that means not being able to use the productivity tools and concepts developed in recent years.
nice speech, but what to do with developers convinced that math and domain models are obsolete technologies?
dzone has great portals forpython, cloud, nosql, and html5!
- login or register to post comments eric rich replied on wed, 2010/01/06 - 11:59am
the iphone users cannot handle more than one button in any  gui and unsafe-typed languages say that "anything that requires a type  declaration is just too complicated to be useful".
nice speech, but what  to do with developers convinced that math and domain models are obsolete  technologies?
if not convinced, watch mtv for half an hour and you  get a live demo :).
- give the developers more than water and coffee..
this is one example where performance appraisal is nothing but formality.
email views: 11773 we recommend these resources innovate faster in the cloud with a platform as a service migrating to fuse mediation router implementing enterprise integration patterns apache solr: download the lucidworks certified distribution developing .net/c# applications with voltdb
the iphone users cannot handle more than one button in any gui and unsafe-typed languages say that "anything that requires a type declaration is just too complicated to be useful".
many of these java sources are used by consultant companies to hire smart people, and since last year i am reading a desperate growing interest about skilled java developers.
you know, perhaps next year.
just in case you are seriously looking for good java developers, some hints: raise the salary (no excuses).
cokes and other beverages?
well, they will need to accept that java job now, frustrated people mostly unable to delivery a quality service anyway.
java platform produces a large chunk of all software running in the global it market, supporting business at a scale of billions of dollars every year.
- what about the salaries and java carriers?
see more popular at dzone subscribe to the rss feed microsoft robotics developer studio 4 available fo... mobile another way of passing values between windows phon... cloud is so-called noops a by-product of paas?
no idea, but there are some  obvious observations about our times: hype languages and technologies didn't conquered the market as we expected,  languages like scala, ruby, grails, etc.
these languages advertised revolutions during the last two or three year, sold  out a lot of books and conference speeches but nowadays it is not easy to find  good jobs (salaries) for such technologies.
people are becoming lazy and dumb, everyday a bit more.
it is time for smart managers to raise the salaries and catch the good ones, the rest can be shared by people reading scrum and kanban manuals.
- allow your developers to take project decisions.
both of those companies are no paradises to work at.
these languages advertised revolutions during the last two or three year, sold out a lot of books and conference speeches but nowadays it is not easy to find good jobs (salaries) for such technologies.
be creative and honest with your developers.
don't try poor copies of google and ibm ideas, these companies are just richer than yours.
around the dzone network d popular at dzone - 1:using key events effectively in eclipse rap - 2:webinar april 19th: "getting alm2.0+ to work" (with guest speaker from forrester research) - 3:episode 7: contests, acf10 beta, code school, & angelina jolie's leg - 4:introduction to osgi - 2 (osgi services) - 5:eclipse development team utopias created in 5 minutes - 6:java remote debugging on weblogic server with eclipse - 7:the incredibles: some of my favorite java tools.
(note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.) comments frank silbermann replied on wed, 2010/01/06 -
nothing more natural than expect the guys behind this technology monster to have a good life - or at least a profitable life.
our team got bonuses last week and raises this week.
cokes  and other beverages?
view full user profile good java developers deserve better salaries 01.06.2010  email innovate faster in the cloud with a platform as a service migrating to fuse mediation router implementing enterprise integration patterns apache solr: download the lucidworks certified distribution developing .net/c# applications with voltdb
simple fact is: java is stillranking high in the it market,  while all that hype revolutions are still hype promises.
he is a well known brazilian jug leader and open-source  evangelist.
offer learning as part of the job benefits (conferences, books, courses,  etc).
i'm surprised that profit sharing or bonuses were not mentioned.
it is time  for smart managers to raise the salaries and catch the good ones, the rest can  be shared by people reading scrum and kanban manuals.
give the developers some stability and carrier perspective, and don't try  that in a bureaucratic way.
from http://weblogs.java.net/blog/felipegaucho tags: published at dzone with permission of felipe gaúcho, author and dzone mvb.
how much it costs for you to buy 1 coke per developer a  day?
many of these java sources are used by consultant  companies to hire smart people, and since last year i am reading a desperate   growing interest about skilled java developers.
- login or register to post comments wal rus replied on wed, 2010/01/06 - 1:14pm it's funny to see complaints about dumbing down population and requests for coke, coffee and "other beverages" – what exactly do you mean here anyways :)
log in or join - home - refcardz - microzones - nosql zone - html5 zone - devops zone - solr-lucene - windows phone 7 - .net zone - python zone - zones - agile zone - cloud zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides and tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - links - snippets eclipse zone
- scripting eclipse with the monkey project: an introduction - discover eclipse's jface dialogs - tips and tricks for debugging in eclipse - netbeans weekly news (issue #527 - mar 5, 2012) - nunit’s new 'action attributes' feature is aop to your unit tests - introduction to log parser studio - visual studio installer projects:
and the young  developers that followed the hype?
when he is not coding, he prefers to listen  reggae and travel around with his lovely wife alena and his son rodrigo.
view full user profile good java developers deserve better salaries 01.06.2010
watch idiocracy and you will get the point.
custom templates - who needs an online ide?
flexible working time and remote office should be available.
listening such conversation and watching the raising offerings in the  mailing lists i have only one conclusion: java market is dry, skilled java  developers are becoming scarce.
well, they will need to accept that java job  now, frustrated people mostly unable to delivery a quality service anyway.
no idea, but there are some obvious observations about our times: - hype languages and technologies didn't conquered the market as we expected, languages like scala, ruby, grails, etc.
allow your developers to take project decisions.
what about the salaries and java carriers?
how to hire good java developers?
- login or register to post comments felipe gaúcho replied on wed, 2010/01/06 - 4:39pm @wal_rus: you are right, but coke was just a reference for something the developers like ...
the rest will definitely dumb down: shorten attention span, reduce brain power.
if you think it is too much, please leave the market :)
recommended resources apache solr: download the lucidworks certified distribution implementing enterprise integration patterns migrating to fuse mediation router developing .net/c# applications with voltdb apache lucene 3.0: download the lucidworks certified distribution spotlight features how they did it: cut the rope in html5 html5 canvas refcard learn html5 in 5 minutes!
felipe works with java since its early versions and has plans to  keep that java tradition as it is.
he is a well known brazilian jug leader and open-source evangelist.
the hiring market for java developers cannot be all that tight if employers can be picky enough to specify a dozen different apis, tools and frameworks with which a candidate must also have significant experience.
don't try poor copies of google and ibm ideas, these companies are just  richer than yours.
well, the reality is a boring overestimation of the management models, leaving to the developers just the extra hours,tendinitis and more learning curves.
no recommendations at all :) * my wife looked the screen, did that sarcastic smile of victory and shooted: "you see, it is not only me.. "
- offer learning as part of the job benefits (conferences, books, courses, etc).
if not convinced, watch mtv for half an hour and you get a live demo :).
what ios 5.1 and the new ipad mean for web dev... architects exploring a graph representation of wikipedia usin... web builder resetting the database connection in django you might also like popular on eclipse zone - the 10 commandments of good source control management - algorithm of the week: merge sort - github was hacked over the weekend - here's what happened, from multiple sources - some useful java classes that you might not know about - all the mouse events in javascript - groovy, a reasonable jvm language for devops - defining a restful framework - sometimes it takes 2 days to do 2 hours of work - developer efficiency - xcode vs. eclipse vs. visual studio - interfaces in dynamic languages - dare to show your code - test driven development without tears - getting started with data mining - on useless testing... - hibernate – please don't deprecate yourself latest articles - effective eclipse: shortcut keys
watch idiocracy and  you will get the point.
- login or register to post comments alex(jalexoid) ... replied on mon, 2010/01/11 - 2:20am 8.
and for the sake of the future, stop firing java developers, and you won't have this problem.
felipe gaúcho felipe gaúcho works as senior software engineer at netcetera ag in switzerland.
i'm glad that the owner of the company knows how to hire and keep java developers. :-)
7:41pm felipe, the "hunt for developers" is only happening down here in brazil and few other emerging markets.
my mailbox aggregates several java user groups and other specialized  sources of information about the java universe, with special guests like cejug  and the java ee community.
my mailbox aggregates several java user groups and other specialized sources of information about the java universe, with special guests like cejug and the java ee community.
this reference of best practices and idiomatic solutions smoothly guides you to the next step of... - dzone - refcardz - book reviews - tech library - it questions - snippets - my profile - about dzone - advertise - tools & buttons - send feedback - topics - html5 - wp7 - cloud - mobile - .net - python - java - php - solr-lucene - eclipse - jetbrains - netbeans - agile - devops controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.
from http://weblogs.java.net/blog/felipegaucho
- give the developers some stability and carrier perspective, and don't try that in a bureaucratic way.
nevertheless, i agree finding average developers is difficult, really good ones are close to impossible.
we get a paid vacation (with paid time off for a week)
if necessary, hire the ones who lost their jobs during the dot-com crash or due to out-sourcing.
well, the reality is a boring overestimation of the management  models, leaving to the developers just the extra hours,tendinitis and more  learning curves.