while the news that apple is tracking your every move might not come as a surprise to jaded technocrats, the idea that this information isn't even encrypted is somewhat unsettling.
rightscale and zend team up with new paas the new rightscale zend php  high availability solution pack, a platform created by the zend/rightscale,  will allow enterprise-level php applications to be deployed in the cloud.
thanks jettro  coenradie.
average: 5 your rating: none average: 5 (1 vote) tags: published at dzone with permission of katie mckinsey , author.
implementing enterprise integration patterns the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm micro focus silk performer spotlight features how twitter does mysql - get their fork birt 3.7 report design refcard - meet the author: michael williams cretaceous cobol can spawn jurassic java heterogeneous computing is here, now around the dzone network web builder popular at dzone - 1:the php hammer (if php were a hammer...)
- java based startups - we want to hear from you - algorithm of the week: boyer-moore string searching - integrate your enterprise apps 'like a boss' - developer productivity is important - reality or myth?
for those who haven't heard, writer peter warden and hacker alasdair allan sharedevidence that apple is tracking all ios 4 users.
which bug reports did you file?
other improvements include support for oracle database, the inclusion of glassfish 3.1, and enhanced integration with oracle weblogic.
thanks jettro coenradie.
dzone has great portals forpython, cloud, nosql, and html5!
even developers who aren't currently  using java 7 will benefit from the netbeans update.
kate stewart, ubuntu's release manager, suggests that that currentubuntu 6.06 users upgrade to 'hardy heron' or ubuntu 8.04 lts.
even developers who aren't currently using java 7 will benefit from the netbeans update.
support is included for java, php, ruby and .net.
as of this june 2011, support  will no longer be offered for ubuntu server 6.06.
i'm speaking as a long-time netbeans user, releasing it at this time was a mistake.
- follow us - rss - google + - facebook - linkedin - twitter — brian kernigan advertising - terms of service - privacy - © 1997-2012, dzone, inc.
- 2:limit wordpress search
- oracle v google trial day 2: ellison testifies - the visitor pattern re-visited - beer and pizza with facebook: learning their secrets... - our simple jenkins configuration and deployment - spring integration project creation vs.
it should also be noted  that oracle removed netbeans 7's ruby on rails support in january, 2011.
although this version of the ubuntu server will be discontinued  in may, support will continue for two more years.
while the news that apple is  tracking your every move might not come as a surprise to jaded technocrats, the  idea that this information isn't even encrypted is somewhat unsettling.
shh… apple might be watching apple knows where you've been.
- login or register to post comments edvin syse replied on thu, 2011/04/21 - 4:22pm
although this version of the ubuntu server will be discontinued in may, support will continue for two more years.
mckinsey katie is a dzone employee and has posted 81 posts at dzone.
average: 5 your rating: none average: 5  (1 vote) tags:
rightscale and zend team up with new paasthe new rightscale zend php high availability solution pack, a platform created by the zend/rightscale, will allow enterprise-level php applications to be deployed in the cloud.
the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm configuring and running fuse esb innovate faster in the cloud with a platform as a service migrating to fuse mediation router oracle's newly released netbeans 7.0 features support for java 7  features.
a standardized environment allows users to easily acclimate to the new system.
support ending for ubuntu server 6.06as of this june 2011, support will no longer be offered for ubuntu server 6.06.
recommended resources java enterprise performance migrating to fuse mediation router
- apple - java - java 7 - netbeans - php - ubuntu - zend - infrastructure - tools & methods - open source (note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.) comments cowwoc replied on wed, 2011/04/20 - 6:27pm oracle rushed netbeans 7 out the door.
support ending for ubuntu server 6.06
desktop support for 6.06 was discontinued two years ago.
google app engine for java this dzone refcard provides an in depth introduction to the cloud computing technology, google app engine.
covering everything from the basics... - dzone - refcardz - book reviews - tech library - it questions - snippets - my profile - about dzone - advertise - tools & buttons - send feedback - topics - html5 - wp7 - cloud - mobile - .net - python - java - php - solr-lucene - eclipse - jetbrains - netbeans - agile - devops controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.
adds support for drools + crawler scheduling spotlight resources birt 3.7 report design: eclipse-based bi and big data visualization eclipse business intelligence and reporting tools (birt) is an open source, eclipse-based reporting system that integrates with your java/j2ee... getting started with cloud computing
the jdk 7 component of netbeans 7.0 is technically an early access snapshot.
email views: 26350 we recommend these resources micro focus silktest 2011 the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm configuring and running fuse esb innovate faster in the cloud with a platform as a service migrating to fuse mediation router oracle's newly released netbeans 7.0 features support for java 7 features.
other improvements  include support for oracle database, the inclusion of glassfish 3.1, and  enhanced integration with oracle weblogic.
for your enjoyment: the basics of node.js.
the jdk 7 component of netbeans 7.0 is technically an early  access snapshot.
a standardized environment allows users to easily acclimate to the new  system.
there are way too many bugs for it to be usable (yes, i've been filing bug reports).
for those who haven't  heard, writer peter warden and hacker alasdair allan sharedevidence that apple  is tracking all ios 4 users.
apache camel project creation - heterogeneous computing is here, now - how to use three.js, a lightweight 3d library, with neo4j - cretaceous cobol can spawn jurassic java latest articles - php redirect function - execute a http post using php curl - top 10 php frameworks - the architecture of flex and php applications - php email validator - email mx dns record check - php code: top ten security vulnerabilities - setting up a wamp,phpmyadmin, wordpress development environment - php force download - keep up with what's going down - improbing the ravendb indexing process - a custom property in spring - jdbi: a simple convenience layer on top of jdbc -
desktop support for 6.06 was  discontinued two years ago.
the developer’s guide to html5 canvas you might also like popular on php zone - what happened when we loaded every music cd in existence into ravendb - an introduction to nosql patterns - is this the ide you've been looking for?
a netbeans 7.0.1 release in october will feature the  final version of jdk 7.
they should have waited at least another month.
or, it might be more accurate to say that apple knows where your ipad or iphone has been.
kate stewart, ubuntu's release manager,  suggests that that currentubuntu 6.06 users upgrade to 'hardy heron' or ubuntu  8.04 lts.
- login or register to post comments comment viewing options flat list - collapsedflat list - expanded threaded list - collapsedthreaded list - expanded date - newest firstdate - oldest first 10 comments per page30 comments per page50 comments per page 70 comments per page90 comments per page150 comments per page200 comments per page250 comments per page300 comments per page select your preferred way to display the comments and click "save settings" to activate your changes.
or, it might be more accurate to say that  apple knows where your ipad or iphone has been.
if you are looking for more information on cloud computing then this dzone refcard is for you.
a netbeans 7.0.1 release in october will feature the final version of jdk 7.
log in or join - home - refcardz - microzones - cloud zone - nosql zone - html5 zone - devops zone - enterprise integration - solr-lucene - windows phone - .net zone - python zone - zones - agile zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides and tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - links - snippets php zone
get you some azure, windows phone, and windows 8 sample apps - python screencast: install/setup "sst web test framework" on ubuntu 12.04 - 10 quick real-world windows phone developer performance tuning tips - demo of handlebars, and why you should consider a templating engine - lwe 2.1
view full user profile daily dose: netbeans 7.0 has java 7 support 04.20.2011
get an in depth comparison on three different cloud...
it should also be noted that oracle removed netbeans 7's ruby on rails support in january, 2011.
to post titles - 3:eliminar ítems vacíos de un array multidimensional en php - 4:overloading - the php way - 5:an intro to virtual proxies, part 1 - 6:top 10 useful debugging tips in ez publish - 7:maintaining your server with command line php see more popular at dzone subscribe to the rss feed newly hatched python tools for you .net how content negotiation works in asp.net web a... mobile eventiles from start to finish: 256-mb windows pho... javalobby implementing your own "soa" registry: the maven wa... javalobby beer and pizza with facebook: learning their secre... web builder