while the news that apple is tracking your every move might not come as a surprise to jaded technocrats, the idea that this information isn't even encrypted is somewhat unsettling.
rightscale and zend team up with new paas the new rightscale zend php  high availability solution pack, a platform created by the zend/rightscale,  will allow enterprise-level php applications to be deployed in the cloud.
thanks jettro  coenradie.
network link conditioner in xcode 4.1, lion build a movie search engine with solr and ruby mobile royal rumble: mozilla and lg enter the ring... visual studio 11 beta: thoughts and resources mongodb's geospacial indexing lets you use a colle... more javalobby spring batch - hello world how to fix memory leaks in java lucene's fuzzyquery is 100 times faster in 4.0 9 programming languages to watch
let’s see how the competition respond spotlight resources groovy programming groovy is easy to start with.
view full user profile daily dose: netbeans 7.0 has java 7 support april 20, 2011 at 4:57 pm we recommend these resources apache lucene 3.0: download the lucidworks certified distribution implementing enterprise integration patterns getting started with fuse mediation router
for those who haven't heard, writer peter warden and hacker alasdair allan sharedevidence that apple is tracking all ios 4 users.
which bug reports did you file?
other improvements include support for oracle database, the inclusion of glassfish 3.1, and enhanced integration with oracle weblogic.
thanks jettro coenradie.
dzone has great portals forpython, cloud, nosql, and html5!
the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm nosql for the enterprise oracle's newly released netbeans 7.0 features support for java 7 features.
even developers who aren't currently  using java 7 will benefit from the netbeans update.
kate stewart, ubuntu's release manager, suggests that that currentubuntu 6.06 users upgrade to 'hardy heron' or ubuntu 8.04 lts.
even developers who aren't currently using java 7 will benefit from the netbeans update.
how to create visual applications in java?
support is included for java, php, ruby and .net.
mckinsey bio katie is a dzone employee and has posted 81 posts at dzone.
- how to upgrade to visual studio 11 team foundation service - setting up windows home server 2011 development environment - dotnetnuke response.
i'm speaking as a long-time netbeans user, releasing it at this time was a mistake.
this reference of best practices and idiomatic solutions smoothly guides you to the next step of... advertising - terms of service - privacy - © 1997-2012, dzone, inc.
it should also be noted  that oracle removed netbeans 7's ruby on rails support in january, 2011.
- amazon goes paas: game on!
and how do you handle testing?
although this version of the ubuntu server will be discontinued  in may, support will continue for two more years.
while the news that apple is  tracking your every move might not come as a surprise to jaded technocrats, the  idea that this information isn't even encrypted is somewhat unsettling.
shh… apple might be watching apple knows where you've been.
latest articles - what are you looking for in the consumer preview?
- login or register to post comments edvin syse replied on thu, 2011/04/21 - 4:22pm
although this version of the ubuntu server will be discontinued in may, support will continue for two more years.
- 2:introduction to mutation testing with pit and testng - 3:customized internationalization (i18n) in java - step by step - 4:simultaneous animated text strings in javafx 2 - 5:rest apache cxf reverse engineering tool - 6:java.next - 7:spring thread pool services see more popular at dzone subscribe to the rss feed your favorite programming language is not good eno...
popular at dzone - 1:how to generate emails, sms, and other messages from templates in java.
javalobby did you  know?
rightscale and zend team up with new paasthe new rightscale zend php high availability solution pack, a platform created by the zend/rightscale, will allow enterprise-level php applications to be deployed in the cloud.
a standardized environment allows users to easily acclimate to the new system.
support ending for ubuntu server 6.06as of this june 2011, support will no longer be offered for ubuntu server 6.06.
support ending for ubuntu server 6.06
spring onto heroku lucene revolution 2012 -details-
desktop support for 6.06 was discontinued two years ago.
in 2011 is hibernate the best choice?
end() doesn’t end - limit your abstractions:
other improvements  include support for oracle database, the inclusion of glassfish 3.1, and  enhanced integration with oracle weblogic.
the jdk 7 component of netbeans 7.0 is technically an early access snapshot.
recommended resources implementing enterprise integration patterns configuring and running fuse esb the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm apache solr: download the lucidworks certified distribution nosql for the enterprise spotlight features have you adopted java 7 yet?
log in or join - home - refcardz - microzones - nosql zone - html5 zone - devops zone - solr-lucene - windows phone 7 - .net zone - python zone - zones - agile zone - cloud zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides and tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - links - snippets javalobby did you know?
for your enjoyment: the basics of node.js.
the jdk 7 component of netbeans 7.0 is technically an early  access snapshot.
a standardized environment allows users to easily acclimate to the new  system.
there are way too many bugs for it to be usable (yes, i've been filing bug reports).
for those who haven't  heard, writer peter warden and hacker alasdair allan sharedevidence that apple  is tracking all ios 4 users.
desktop support for 6.06 was  discontinued two years ago.
a netbeans 7.0.1 release in october will feature the  final version of jdk 7.
average: 5 your rating: none average: 5 (1 vote) comments cowwoc replied on wed, 2011/04/20 - 6:27pm oracle rushed netbeans 7 out the door.
or, it might be more accurate to say that apple knows where your ipad or iphone has been.
they should have waited at least another month.
- login or register to post comments comment viewing options flat list - collapsedflat list - expanded threaded list - collapsedthreaded list - expanded date - newest firstdate - oldest first 10 comments per page30 comments per page50 comments per page 70 comments per page90 comments per page150 comments per page200 comments per page250 comments per page300 comments per page select your preferred way to display the comments and click "save settings" to activate your changes.
view full user  profile daily dose: netbeans 7.0 has java 7 support april 20, 2011 at 4:57  pm tweet apache lucene 3.0: download the lucidworks certified distribution implementing enterprise integration patterns getting started with fuse mediation router the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm nosql for the enterprise oracle's newly released netbeans 7.0 features support for java 7  features.
kate stewart, ubuntu's release manager,  suggests that that currentubuntu 6.06 users upgrade to 'hardy heron' or ubuntu  8.04 lts.
or, it might be more accurate to say that  apple knows where your ipad or iphone has been.
a netbeans 7.0.1 release in october will feature the final version of jdk 7.
it should also be noted that oracle removed netbeans 7's ruby on rails support in january, 2011.
as of this june 2011, support  will no longer be offered for ubuntu server 6.06.