what to expect: a decent, consistent editor.
rubymine sounds interesting.
i also have used apatana (fka radrails) and while it has gotten better, it's clunky eclipse baggage is very apparent.
related posts rubymine 3.0 released: an improved ruby and rails 3.0 ide rubymine 1.0 beta released: a solid, intellij based ruby and rails ide rubymine 1.0: a cross platform ruby ide people actually seem to love
this is exciting news.
my congratulations to the developers!
i hear a lot of people who use textmate for rails, and it reminds me of a guy i worked with in 1990 who used vi to develop the visual text editor for the development environment my company sold.
rubymine is built upon the intellij idea platform and brings together all of the essentialfeatures you'd expect of an ide (editor, debugging tools, source control integration, code completion, and so forth) along with lots of extra goodies specific to ruby, such as gui-based support for rspec and test::unit.
as i moved to rails 16 months ago, i tried the idea rails plugin, but found it just ok.
up and running, the ide seemed to do the trick, but i didn't go too far as i'm not a big fan of ide-based development.
with jruby built in, i expect to soon be able to write ruby inspections in ruby itself.
i am a huge netbeans fan but cannot help be very impressed by rubymine.
i actually thought the latest tracking system they were using for ruby itself was called rubymine, but i guess it's ruby-redmine. "because not all those products will include all the functionality of intellij idea, they can be much less expensive, and we can choose the price based on the target market.
(same goes for resharper for .net development).
it just get's in the way.
if you're paid for your coding time there's no reason not to invest some of it back into professional tools.
harvest  new york, new york more jobs  » : post a job rubymine: a new “intelligent” ruby ide built on intellj by peter cooper / november 4, 2008 rubymine is an all new ide for ruby and rails developers, developed by  jetbrains (best known for java ide intellij idea).
it's better then textmate but usability (code completion) is a complete failure.
this was on os x only, so your mileage may vary.
i really like netbeans and its ruby features are really great, but being a java application makes it painfully slow sometimes, so that i went back to textmate some time ago.
i have been using intellij idea for years, since i switched from a borland ide, and then tried netbeans and eclipse and hated them both.
intellij idea beats the other editors hands-down in terms of speed, refactoring, ease of use and functionality (imo).
besides that if the support of git is really good i will definitely consider using it.
enough already with this hold up for tm 2.
(he told me later that in addition to normal shortcuts for exiting the editor, you could also do :q!
packages start from just £7/month on our  mod_rails/apache stack hosted on fast uk servers and include free 24/7 support.
in any case, it's interesting to see another "everything but the kitchen sink" cross-platform ruby ide to compete withradrails and netbeans , but if rubymine becomes a commercial application priced similarly to intellij idea, i can't see it becoming popular except with devoted idea users migrating to ruby, but hopefully jetbrains will pull something interesting out of the bag to make it a more interesting proposition.
(what will be really cool, of course, will be when the first ide for rails is written in ruby ... and it is fast and stable).
every plugin implement a new editor, with new and completely inconsistent behaviours.
lets hope the price is attractive enough to warrant an impulse purchase (hint hint).
idea is simply a different product than most ides.
packages start from just £7/month on our mod_rails/apache stack hosted on fast uk servers and include free 24/7 support.
at first i thought this had something to do with redmine.
what is the price of textmate ?
the pricing of rubymine wasn't officially announced yet, but i can say that the price of rubymine will be much closer to the price of textmate rather than intellij idea.
rubymine is built upon the  intellij idea platform and brings together all of the essentialfeatures you'd  expect of an ide (editor, debugging tools, source control integration, code  completion, and so forth) along with lots of extra goodies specific to ruby,  such as gui-based support for rspec and test::unit.
one to watch out for!
up and running, the ide seemed to do the trick, but i  didn't go too far as i'm not a big fan of ide-based development.
the pricing for intellij idea is  £450 ($599 - oddly) for a "commercial license" and £187  (or $249) for a "personal license" - just to give you an idea of the  level jetbrains operates at.
in any case, it's interesting to see another "everything but the  kitchen sink" cross-platform ruby ide to compete withradrails and netbeans , but if rubymine becomes a commercial application priced similarly to intellij  idea, i can't see it becoming popular except with devoted idea users migrating  to ruby, but hopefully jetbrains will pull something interesting out of the bag  to make it a more interesting proposition.
copyright © 2006–2012 peter cooper
just gave rubymine a spin in both linux and windows...
$249 may sound steep, but it's worth every cent.
the latest version of netbeans is very, very good when it comes to ruby support.
on a casual tryout of rubymine, i found it to be a little smoother than eclipse based ides, and although it's clearly not a fully native os x application (in terms of widgets) it looks pretty good.
the current release of rubymine is billed as a "public preview"  with a full release set for q1 2009.
building it on java (instead of cocoa) allows them to leverage java components from their idea platform and the fantastic development skills they already have in the company.
the new products can be much slimmer, lighter, and easier to get started with.
that intellij has pursued their new ide is a great thing, not just because there are better options for those of us who need more than a fancy text editor, but also because it means rails is getting more real.
i use netbeans for my latest ruby project.
java was best done in emacs for the first four or 5 of its years.
dmitry: that makes it a lot more exciting then :)
the current release of rubymine is billed as a "public preview" with a full release set for q1 2009.
intellij idea is the best java ide around, period.
i don't see a good reason to change that.
it took several minutes for my first ruby project to be created as it was busy parsing all the ruby files on my system for some reason, but once this was done, further projects were created instantly.
the pricing for intellij idea is £450 ($599 - oddly) for a "commercial license" and £187 (or $249) for a "personal license" - just to give you an idea of the level jetbrains operates at.
and developers don't get the stuff they don't care about.
supported by media72 hosting: looking for reliable uk ruby on rails  hosting?
this public preview is free to use for 30  days and jetbrains are keen to elicit feedback ontheir rubymine forum in that  time.
on a casual tryout of rubymine, i found it to be a little smoother than  eclipse based ides, and although it's clearly not a fully native os x  application (in terms of widgets) it looks pretty good.
strike that, idea is one of the best editors for any supported languages.
also, code inspections.
but as projects get bigger, and the language supported more libraries, and more complicated features and so on, an ide was pretty much essential.
i think an ide represents a step of maturation and stability of a language and environment that makes it feasible to create a useful and complete ide.
each editor behaves differently.
it works with you, not against you.
supported by media72 hosting: looking for reliable uk ruby on rails hosting?
all the eclipse based ides are imho not stable enough (at least when using a mac).
i think it will be tough for a commercial product to get significant market share.
one thing about eclipse that bothers me to madness is how inconsistent editors can be.
as a commercial developer tools vendor, i suspect jetbrains will most be  charging for rubymine when it's finalized.
in idea this isn't a problem, the editor behaves consistently in all supported languages.
this is worth watching.
i have been using intellij idea for 6 years now and it's clearly the best ide for java development.
this public preview is free to use for 30 days and jetbrains are keen to elicit feedback ontheir rubymine forum in that time.
idea has over 900 inspections for java, and while ruby support is nowhere near that, i expect it to grow with time.
this was on os  x only, so your mileage may vary.
as a commercial developer tools vendor, i suspect jetbrains will most be charging for rubymine when it's finalized.
" - dmitry jemerov (jetbrains) http://www.artima.com/lejava/articles/javaone_2008_dmitry_jemerov.html i just wish they'd develop rubymine using cocoa.
by peter cooper / november 4, 2008 rubymine is an all new ide for ruby and rails developers, developed by jetbrains (best known for java ide intellij idea).
does it support linux 64 bits ?
i had nothing but respect for his aptitude and supreme vi skills, but at some level it just seemed wrong.
i'd really like to see textmate to evolve into a generic ide for various languages with debugger and code hinting support.
it took several minutes  for my first ruby project to be created as it was busy parsing all the ruby  files on my system for some reason, but once this was done, further projects  were created instantly.
if it's not a native cocoa application, what's it based on then?