while the news that apple is tracking your every move might not come as a surprise to jaded technocrats, the idea that this information isn't even encrypted is somewhat unsettling.
rightscale and zend team up with new paas the new rightscale zend php  high availability solution pack, a platform created by the zend/rightscale,  will allow enterprise-level php applications to be deployed in the cloud.
apache lucene 3.0: download the lucidworks certified distribution nosql for the enterprise configuring and running fuse esb the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm oracle's newly released netbeans 7.0 features support for java 7  features.
average: 5 your rating: none average: 5 (1 vote) tags: published at dzone with permission of katie mckinsey , author.
thanks jettro  coenradie.
how they did it: cut the rope in html5 around the dzone network d microsoft robotics developer studio 4 available fo... mobile another way of passing values between windows phon... cloud is so-called noops a by-product of paas? mobile
email views: 25884 we recommend these resources apache lucene 3.0: download the lucidworks certified distribution nosql for the enterprise implementing enterprise integration patterns configuring and running fuse esb the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm oracle's newly released netbeans 7.0 features support for java 7 features.
for those who haven't heard, writer peter warden and hacker alasdair allan sharedevidence that apple is tracking all ios 4 users.
which bug reports did you file?
other improvements include support for oracle database, the inclusion of glassfish 3.1, and enhanced integration with oracle weblogic.
thanks jettro coenradie.
dzone has great portals forpython, cloud, nosql, and html5!
even developers who aren't currently  using java 7 will benefit from the netbeans update.
kate stewart, ubuntu's release manager, suggests that that currentubuntu 6.06 users upgrade to 'hardy heron' or ubuntu 8.04 lts.
even developers who aren't currently using java 7 will benefit from the netbeans update.
support is included for java, php, ruby and .net.
recommended resources migrating to fuse mediation router configuring and running fuse esb innovate faster in the cloud with a platform as a service apache solr: download the lucidworks certified distribution implementing enterprise integration patterns spotlight features javascript profiling: html5 canvas strategies for web app notifications on the desktop
i'm speaking as a long-time netbeans user, releasing it at this time was a mistake.
- follow us - rss - google + - facebook - linkedin - twitter — brian kernigan advertising - terms of service - privacy - © 1997-2012, dzone, inc.
it should also be noted  that oracle removed netbeans 7's ruby on rails support in january, 2011.
log in or join - home - refcardz - microzones - nosql zone - html5 zone - devops zone - solr-lucene - windows phone 7 - .net zone - python zone - zones - agile zone - cloud zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides and tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - links - snippets server zone did you know?
although this version of the ubuntu server will be discontinued  in may, support will continue for two more years.
while the news that apple is  tracking your every move might not come as a surprise to jaded technocrats, the  idea that this information isn't even encrypted is somewhat unsettling.
shh… apple might be watching apple knows where you've been.
- login or register to post comments edvin syse replied on thu, 2011/04/21 - 4:22pm
although this version of the ubuntu server will be discontinued in may, support will continue for two more years.
mckinsey katie is a dzone employee and has posted 81 posts at dzone.
average: 5 your rating: none average: 5  (1 vote) tags:
rightscale and zend team up with new paasthe new rightscale zend php high availability solution pack, a platform created by the zend/rightscale, will allow enterprise-level php applications to be deployed in the cloud.
a standardized environment allows users to easily acclimate to the new system.
support ending for ubuntu server 6.06as of this june 2011, support will no longer be offered for ubuntu server 6.06.
this reference of best practices and idiomatic solutions smoothly guides you to the next step of... html5 canvas: a web standard for dynamic graphics - dzone - refcardz - book reviews - tech library - it questions - snippets - my profile - about dzone - advertise - tools & buttons - send feedback - topics - html5 - wp7 - cloud - mobile - .net - python - java - php - solr-lucene - eclipse - jetbrains - netbeans - agile - devops controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.
- apple - java - java 7 - netbeans - php - ubuntu - zend - infrastructure - tools & methods - open source (note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.) comments cowwoc replied on wed, 2011/04/20 - 6:27pm oracle rushed netbeans 7 out the door.
support ending for ubuntu server 6.06
desktop support for 6.06 was discontinued two years ago.
other improvements  include support for oracle database, the inclusion of glassfish 3.1, and  enhanced integration with oracle weblogic.
the jdk 7 component of netbeans 7.0 is technically an early access snapshot.
for your enjoyment: the basics of node.js.
the jdk 7 component of netbeans 7.0 is technically an early  access snapshot.
a standardized environment allows users to easily acclimate to the new  system.
there are way too many bugs for it to be usable (yes, i've been filing bug reports).
for those who haven't  heard, writer peter warden and hacker alasdair allan sharedevidence that apple  is tracking all ios 4 users.
desktop support for 6.06 was  discontinued two years ago.
a netbeans 7.0.1 release in october will feature the  final version of jdk 7.
they should have waited at least another month.
or, it might be more accurate to say that apple knows where your ipad or iphone has been.
kate stewart, ubuntu's release manager,  suggests that that currentubuntu 6.06 users upgrade to 'hardy heron' or ubuntu  8.04 lts.
- login or register to post comments comment viewing options flat list - collapsedflat list - expanded threaded list - collapsedthreaded list - expanded date - newest firstdate - oldest first 10 comments per page30 comments per page50 comments per page 70 comments per page90 comments per page150 comments per page200 comments per page250 comments per page300 comments per page select your preferred way to display the comments and click "save settings" to activate your changes.
what ios 5.1 and the new ipad mean for web dev... architects exploring a graph representation of wikipedia usin... web builder resetting the database connection in django you might also like popular on server zone - the 10 commandments of good source control management - algorithm of the week: merge sort - github was hacked over the weekend - here's what happened, from multiple sources - unit testing is for lazy people - some useful java classes that you might not know about - all the mouse events in javascript - defining a restful framework - groovy, a reasonable jvm language for devops - developer efficiency - xcode vs. eclipse vs. visual studio
- sometimes it takes 2 days to do 2 hours of work - interfaces in dynamic languages - client-side server monitoring with jolokia and jmx - getting started with data mining - test driven development without tears - dare to show your code latest articles - what to do when a hard drive fails - oracle taunts ibm with $10m challenge - gds ships foss alternative to adobe livecycle ds - resin release brings rest administration - vagrant testing, testing, one two - glassfish v3 ruby gem - new home on rubyforge - usa: computer professionals update act - why vagrant is cool (video) - netbeans weekly news (issue #527 - mar 5, 2012) - nunit’s new 'action attributes' feature is aop to your unit tests - introduction to log parser studio - visual studio installer projects: life after visual studio 2010 - final thoughts on s#arp lite - how to create multiview editors for nodes - analyzing s#arp lite - tasks - use windows 8 icons with segoe ui symbol spotlight resources groovy programming groovy is easy to start with.
or, it might be more accurate to say that  apple knows where your ipad or iphone has been.
a netbeans 7.0.1 release in october will feature the final version of jdk 7.
view full user profile daily dose: netbeans 7.0 has java 7 support 04.20.2011
it should also be noted that oracle removed netbeans 7's ruby on rails support in january, 2011.
as of this june 2011, support  will no longer be offered for ubuntu server 6.06.