however we have only few elements (three in our case).
perhaps because of its exotic name or because it is so easy to implement.
maybe indeed the answer lies in the simplicity of its implementation.
in bubble sort we've to compare each two adjacent elements here “2″ appears to be less than “4″, so it is considered lighter and it continues to bubble to the surface (the front of the array).
on his way to the surface the currently lightest item meets a heavier element.
i am interested in  any webpage optimizations techniques - for a faster web!
thus the lightest element  bubbles to the surface and at the end of each iteration it appears on the top.
now the question remains – why is it so famous?
view full user profile algorithm of the week: bubble sort 02.21.2012
this dzone refcard provides an in depth introduction to the cloud computing technology, google app engine.
then they swap places.
share it with your friends:| more it’s weird that bubble sort is the most famous sorting algorithm in practice since it is one of the worst approaches for data sorting.
let’s see how to implement bubble sort.
the problem with bubble sort is that you may have to swap a lot of elements.
dzone has great portals for python, cloud, nosql , andhtml5!
i’ll try to explain this simple principle with some pictures.
the question is how easy?
swapping is slow and that is the main reason not to use bubble sort
move forward and swap with each heavier item swapping is slow and that is the main reason not to use bubble sort
why is  bubble sort so famous?
python zone is brought to you in partnership with: stoimen popov website @stoimenpopov i've been working on web based projects built mainly with php and
recommended links "appops": the new frontier in apm pros and cons of saas performance monitoring how mashable delivers a quality ux what browser really is the fastest?
the python zoneis a community that features a diverse collection of news, tutorials, advice, and opinions about python and django.
the list is almost sorted one of the problems with bubble sort is that it consists of too much  swapping, but what if we know that the list is almost sorted?
if you are looking for more information on cloud computing then this dzone refcard is for you.
now the question remains – why  is it so famous?
| more it’s weird that bubble sort is the most famous sorting algorithm in  practice since it is one of the worst approaches for data sorting.
note that in the best case bubble sort’s complexity is o(n) –  faster than quicksort’s best case!
well, obviously after understanding the principles of this algorithm every developer, even a beginner, can implement it.
on his way to the surface the currently lightest item meets a heavier  element.
well, obviously  after understanding the principles of this algorithm every developer, even a  beginner, can implement it.
the python zone is sponsored bynew relic, the all-in-one web application performance tool that lets yousee performance from the end user experience, through servers, and down to the line of application code.
stoimen is a dzone mvb and is not an employee of dzone and has posted 61 posts at dzone.
visit the python zone for news, tips,  and tutorials on the python programming language.
what if we know that the list is almost sorted?
then one of  those two items is considered smaller (lighter) and if the lighter element is  on the right side of its neighbour, they swap places.
thus the lightest element bubbles to the surface and at the end of each iteration it appears on the top.
if the currently lightest element meets another item that is lighter, then the newest currently lightest element starts to bubble to the top.
then one of those two items is considered smaller (lighter) and if the lighter element is on the right side of its neighbour, they swap places.
snippets python  zone did you know?
the problem is that this algorithm needs a tremendous number of comaprisons and as we know already this can be slow.
implementation implementing bubble sort is easy.
in bubble sort we've to compare each two adjacent elements here “2″ appears to be less than “4″, so it is  considered lighter and it continues to bubble to the surface (the front of the  array).
swap with heavier elements if heavier elements appear on the way we should swap them
// almost sorted [1, 2, 4, 3, 5] we have to swap only 3 with 4.
email views:  6493 tweet
we can easily see how ineffective bubble sort is.
perhaps because of its exotic name or because it is so  easy to implement.
why not using  bubble sort? 3.
you can read more from them attheir website.
source: http://www.stoimen.com/blog/2012/02/20/computer-algorithms-bubble-sort/ (note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.)python is a fast, powerful, dynamic, and versatile programming language that is being used in a variety ofapplication domains.
finally the list begins to look sorted
you can read  more from them attheir website.
javascript, where i mostly use zend framework and jquery.
array(6, 5, 3, 1, 8, 7, 2, 4); function bubble_sort($arr) { $length = count($arr); for ($i = 0; $i  $i; $j--) { if ($arr[$j] click here to sort the list node 3 node 1 node 2 here sort() can’t help us and we’ve to code our own function.
each two adjacent elements are compared
the problem is that this algorithm needs a tremendous number of comaprisons  and as we know already this can be slow.
implementing bubble sort is easy.
maybe indeed the answer lies in the simplicity of its  implementation.
we can be sure that on each step the algorithm bubbles the lightest element so far
it has flourished as a beginner-friendly language that is penetrating more and more industries.
here’s a php implementation of bubble sort.
we can  easily see how ineffective bubble sort is.
i've been working on web based projects built mainly with php and javascript, where i mostly use zend framework and jquery.
get an in depth comparison on three different cloud...
covering everything from the basics...
first let’s take a look on its nature.
array(6, 5, 3, 1, 8, 7, 2, 4); function bubble_sort($arr) {  $length = count($arr); for ($i = 0; $i  $i; $j--) { if ($arr[$j] click here to sort the list  node 3 node 1 node  2 here sort() can’t help us and we’ve to code our own  function.
finally the lightest element is on its place
if the currently lightest element meets another item that is lighter, then  the newest currently lightest element starts to bubble to the top.
one of the problems with bubble sort is that it consists of too much swapping, but
if heavier elements appear on the way we should swap them
source:  http://www.stoimen.com/blog/2012/02/20/computer-algorithms-bubble-sort/
note that in the best case bubble sort’s complexity is o(n) – faster than quicksort’s best case!
bubble sort consists of comparing each pair of adjacent items.
at the end of each iteration we can be sure that the lightest element is on  the right place – at the beginning of the list.
new relic provides the  resources and best practices to help you monitor these applications.
at the end of each iteration we can be sure that the lightest element is on the right place – at the beginning of the list.
if there is a lighter element, then this item begins to bubble to the  surface we can be sure that on each step the algorithm bubbles the lightest  element so far
stoimen is a dzone mvb  and is not an employee of dzone and has posted 61 posts at dzone.
i am interested in any webpage optimizations techniques - for a faster web!
why is bubble sort so famous?
this content is part of the python zone, which is  presented to you by dzone andnew relic.
view full user profile like this piece?
share it with your friends:
groupon: dealing with massive user load like this piece?
why not using bubble sort?