sillyprocessor its only contents is the name of the processor implementation.
step 2: create a  project which uses your processor.
these are compiled and usable just like  any other normal class.
filer.createsourcefile( "silly/" + sillyclassname,  element); file.openwriter() .append(sillyclasscontent) .close(); } catch  (ioexception e) { e.printstacktrace(); } } return true; } } without creating this meta-inf entry i couldn’t get the processor to  register in eclipse.
step 2: create a project which uses your processor.
the jpa2 criteria api meta-model is generated using this.
so it essentially claims them all.
it was part of the  sdk but the classes were part of the unofficial com.sun.
select it and  press ok. step 3: build!
dzone has great portals forpython, cloud, nosql, and html5!
press the “advanced” button and you’ll be presented with a dialog which contains the processor you defined in your meta-inf/services/javax.annotation.processing.
in this example we match all annotations and even classes w/o annotations:@supportedannotationtypes(value= {"*"})
but i’m leaving  that out and focusing on how i got this processing to work within eclipse.
these are compiled and usable just like any other normal class.
* namespace, and you  had to use theapt tool to process the source code.
- follow us - rss - google + - facebook - linkedin - twitter — brian kernigan advertising - terms of service - privacy - © 1997-2012, dzone, inc.
here’s what it looks like for me in my project: so we get a warning for the thing class because its class name start with a “t” and for each class in the project we get corresponding “silly” classes generated.
string sillyclasscontent =
jdk6  cleaned up the api and integrated this stuff it into javac itself so you  didn’t need to use the separate apt tool anymore.
for more info check out the eclipse jdt/apt docs, this bit about creating a code analyzer or the offical docs from http://kerebus.com/2011/02/using-java-6-processors-in-eclipse/. tags: published at dzone with permission of carl-petter bertell, author.
for more info check out the eclipse jdt/apt docs, this bit about creating a  code analyzer or the offical docs from http://kerebus.com/2011/02/using-java-6-processors-in-eclipse/.
in the properties for your new project go to java compiler ->  annotation processing check the “enable project  specific settings” and make sure “enable  annotation processing” is checked.
- login or register to post comments thomas kern replied on sat, 2012/01/21 - 1:51pm
next off go to java compiler -> annotation processing -
filer.createsourcefile( "silly/" + sillyclassname, element); file.openwriter() .append(sillyclasscontent) .close(); } catch (ioexception e) { e.printstacktrace(); } } return true; } } without creating this meta-inf entry i couldn’t get the processor to register in eclipse.
for more info, please refer to here , here and here - login or register to post comments mohamed el-beltagy replied on mon, 2011/02/07 - 8:16am in response to: melbeltagy i've been playing around with the processor and the example you mentioned.
* namespace, and you had to use theapt tool to process the source code.
cloud deploying a django app on the cloud using dotcloud .net xml stack for node.js on windows you might also like popular on javalobby - filtering the stack trace from hell - javascript's two zeros - 10 best practices of code commenting & formatting - blast aliens in your browser with your ios trigger device - 12 essential skills for software architects - new refcardz topics (round 2): awesome or lame?
apparently built for processing source code with annotations before they are compiled into classes, it can also be used for all kinds of fun like code generation and code analyzers which are ide independent; and you don’t even need to use annotations necessarily.
i guess you might be able to list several processors here, although i’m not sure.
- login or register to post comments carl-petter bertell replied on tue, 2011/02/08 - 1:19am thanks for the clarification.
so we’re creating a processor which will generate a new class for  each class in projects compiled using this processor.
warning, "this class name starts with a t!", element); } string sillyclassname =
processor: com.kerebus.annotation.processor.
we’re practically done.
meta-inf/services/javax.annotation.processing.
i guess you  might be able to list several processors here, although i’m not sure.
i also changed the generated  source directory to a name which didn’t start with a dot so it  wouldn’t be hidden in the package explorer (files or directories which  start with a dot are by default filtered away in eclipse).
>  factory path here you should add the jar of your processor  project.
log in or join - home - refcardz - microzones - nosql zone - html5 zone - devops zone - solr-lucene - windows phone 7 - .net zone - python zone - zones - agile zone - cloud zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides and tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - links - snippets javalobby did you know?
this is when i tried to register a processor with the depricated annotations running with the silly processor you introduced.
view full user profile using java 6 processors in eclipse 02.07.2011  email apache lucene 3.0: download the lucidworks certified distribution micro focus silktest 2011 getting started with fuse mediation router the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm jdk5 introduced the apt (annotation processing tool).
release_6) public class sillyprocessor  extends abstractprocessor { private filer filer; private messager messager;  @override public void init(processingenvironment env) { filer = env.getfiler();  messager = env.getmessager(); } @override public boolean process(set elements,  roundenvironment env) { for (element element : env.getrootelements()) { if  (element.getsimplename().tostring().startswith("silly")) { //
press the “advanced” button and you’ll be presented with a  dialog which contains the processor you defined in your  meta-inf/services/javax.annotation.processing.
- login or register to post comments comment viewing options flat list - collapsedflat list - expanded threaded list - collapsedthreaded list - expanded date - newest firstdate - oldest first 10 comments per page30 comments per page50 comments per page 70 comments per page90 comments per page150 comments per page200 comments per page250 comments per page300 comments per page select your preferred way to display the comments and click "save settings" to activate your changes.
- introduction to oracle's adf faces rich client framework - time slider: opensolaris 2008.11 killer feature - netbeans weekly news (issue #530 - mar 19, 2012) - bielefeld university on the netbeans platform again - netbeans weekly news (issue #529 - mar 19, 2012) - accounting software on netbeans - netbeans weekly news (issue #528 - mar 12, 2012) - paint store price list generator on netbeans - netbeans weekly news (issue #527 - mar 5, 2012) - nunit’s new 'action attributes' feature is aop to your unit tests spotlight resources getting started with cloud computing
additionally we’ll create a warning for each class which starts with at.
apparently  built for processing source code with annotations before they are compiled into  classes, it can also be used for all kinds of fun like code generation and code  analyzers which are ide independent; and you don’t even need to use  annotations necessarily.
warning, "this class name starts with a  t!", element); } string sillyclassname =
- annotations - apt - code generation - java - java - static code analysis (note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.) comments mohamed el-beltagy replied on mon, 2011/02/07 - 4:35am about your question weather the file "meta-inf/services/javax.annotation.processing.
carl-petter has posted 1 posts at dzone.
here you should add the jar of your processor project.
release_6) public class sillyprocessor extends abstractprocessor { private filer filer; private messager messager; @override public void init(processingenvironment env) { filer = env.getfiler(); messager = env.getmessager(); } @override public boolean process(set elements, roundenvironment env) { for (element element : env.getrootelements()) { if (element.getsimplename().tostring().startswith("silly")) {
now export it as a jar and use that jar in other projects where you wish to use the processor.
carl-petter bertell carl-petter bertell is a software creative who dabbles in the art of java.
i also changed the generated source directory to a name which didn’t start with a dot so it wouldn’t be hidden in the package explorer (files or directories which start with a dot are by default filtered away in eclipse).
step 1: create the processor project sillyprocessor.java: @supportedannotationtypes(value= {"*"}) @supportedsourceversion(sourceversion.
step 1: create the processor project sillyprocessor.java: @supportedannotationtypes(value= {"*"})  @supportedsourceversion(sourceversion.
i made one very contrived example of java6 processor usage with eclipse.
jdk6 cleaned up the api and integrated this stuff it into javac itself so you didn’t need to use the separate apt tool anymore.
web builder interview: todd anglin on telerik, kendo ui, and h... web builder how to set up wordpress on ec2 using puppet and gi... mobile android – how to implement google search inside ...
i tried to add more than one processor in the jar and i found out, according to theprocessor.process java doc that you need to return false instead of true (in you example).
// we don't want generate new silly classes // for auto-generated silly classes continue; } if (element.getsimplename().tostring().startswith("t")) { messager.printmessage(kind.
in the properties for your new project go to java compiler -> annotation processing check the “enable project specific settings” and make sure “enable annotation processing” is checked.
see more popular at dzone subscribe to the rss feed using neo4j to make predictions for fast senctence...
the jpa2 criteria api meta-model is generated using  this.
it was part of the sdk but the classes were part of the unofficial com.sun.
carl-petter bertell bio carl-petter bertell is a software creative who dabbles in the art of java.
select it and press ok.
"silly" +  element.getsimplename(); string sillyclasscontent = "package  silly;\n" + "public class " + sillyclassname + " {\n"  + " public string foobar;\n" + "}"; javafileobject file =
thanks, this is exactly what i was looking for–the smallest possible example of adding custom annotation processing to eclipse.
but i’m leaving that out and focusing on how i got this processing to work within eclipse.
so we’re creating a processor which will generate a new class for each class in projects compiled using this processor.
- you've been implementing main() wrong all this time - unlearn, young programmer - new features in fork/join from java concurrency master, doug lea - the most important languages for devops - most popular tools used on our java paas -
processor" entries could contain another entry or no; simple answer is yes.
email views: 11368 we recommend these resources apache lucene 3.0: download the lucidworks certified distribution micro focus silktest 2011 micro focus silk performer getting started with fuse mediation router the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm jdk5 introduced the apt (annotation processing tool).
covering everything from the basics... - dzone - refcardz - book reviews - tech library - it questions - snippets - my profile - about dzone - advertise - tools & buttons - send feedback - topics - html5 - wp7 - cloud - mobile - .net - python - java - php - solr-lucene - eclipse - jetbrains - netbeans - agile - devops controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.
in 2011 - how to create visual applications in java?
now export it as a jar and use that jar in other projects  where you wish to use the processor.
you cannot use project references.
recommended resources implementing enterprise integration patterns getting started with fuse mediation router configuring and running fuse esb best practices for open source adoption the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm spotlight features the 10 commandments of good source control management hadoop in practice spring mvc - flash attributes git vs. svn - basic commandline syntax reference around the dzone network architects popular at dzone - 1:how to rock out with jrebel and google web toolkit (gwt) - 2:unit tests: searching under the lamp post - 3:building scalable enterprise systems - 4:complexity of time - 5:android – how to implement google search inside your app - 6:google app engine java capabilities and namespaces api - 7:what it takes to participate in open source projects?
html5 canvas: a web standard for dynamic graphics google app engine for java this dzone refcard provides an in depth introduction to the cloud computing technology, google app engine.
next off go to java compiler -> annotation processing -> factory path step 3: build!
view full user profile using java 6 processors in eclipse 02.07.2011
when making both processors return false; both processors run well.
so if we're returning true from process subsequent processors which match the same supported annotation types will not be called.
"silly" + element.getsimplename();
all of this is possible to integrate into a maven build
here’s what it looks like for me in my  project: so we get a warning for the thing class because its class name start with a  “t” and for each class in the project we get corresponding  “silly” classes generated.
we  don't want generate new silly classes // for auto-generated silly classes  continue; } if (element.getsimplename().tostring().startswith("t")) {  messager.printmessage(kind.
if you are looking for more information on cloud computing then this dzone refcard is for you.
additionally we’ll  create a warning for each class which starts with at.
my problem with your interviews - algorithm of the week: radix sort - 10 best practices for code commenting & formatting - the return of vim latest articles - spring batch - hello world - how to fix memory leaks in java - lucene's fuzzyquery is 100 times faster in 4.0 - is hibernate the best choice?
- 9 programming languages to watch
"package silly;\n" + "public class " + sillyclassname + " {\n" + " public string foobar;\n" + "}"; javafileobject file = null; try { file =
get an in depth comparison on three different cloud...