the key to this application portability is the java runtime environment, which is available free of charge for most operating systems, including all of the ones mentioned above.
the key to this application  portability is the java runtime environment, which is available free of charge  for most operating systems, including all of the ones mentioned above.
© 2012, oracle corporation and/or its affiliates.
you might find yourself writing java code that provides back-end logic for web and enterprise applications as well.
docs for earlier releases sitemap about us contact legal
tutorial tutorials and articles developing java applications - overview of jdk 7 support in netbeans ide - packaging and distributing java desktop applications - developing general java applications - creating, importing, and configuring java projects - advanced free-form project configuration - annotation processors support in the netbeans ide - part i: using project lombok - part ii: using own custom annotation processors - code assistance in the netbeans ide java editor - refactoring with inspect and transform in the netbeans ide java editor - importing eclipse projects into netbeans ide - keyboard shortcuts card building, debugging, and testing - using the visual debugger - enabling java web start in the netbeans ide - use netbeans ide to combine jar files into a single jar file - writing junit tests - debugging multithreaded applications maven - maven best practices - creating a maven swing application using hibernate profiling source code - introduction to profiling java applications - using profiling points - advanced profiling: theory in practice - case study of netbeans profiler scripting languages jmx monitoring and management - getting started with java management extensions (jmx) monitoring - adding jmx instrumentation to a java application - developing a jmx manager and connecting to a remote jmx agent screencasts - demo: inspect and transform refactoring feature in netbeans ide 7.1 - demo: using the visual debugger - demo: netbeans ide support for jdk 7 - demo: jdk 7 project coin features in netbeans ide (by arun gupta) - demo: working with maven dependencies - demo: deadlock detection using the netbeans debugger - demo: visual step into action in the netbeans debugger - demo: using the code snippet evaluator in the netbeans debugger - demo: multithreaded debugging all screencasts community-contributed docs - integrating antlr without learning ant (by jeff allen)
- adding a splash screen to a java application (by joseph areeda) - complete list of macro keywords for the netbeans java editor (geertjan's post ondzone).
a java se application is an application written to the java platform,  standard edition (java se).
the same unmodified java se applications can be run  on almost any computer, whether that computer uses the microsoft windows,  solaris, linux, or macos x operating systems.
you might find yourself writing java code that provides  back-end logic for web and enterprise applications as well.
in addition to being a platform for multi-platform desktop applications,  the java se platform is the basis for other technologies such as java platform,  enterprise edition.
general java development learning trail what is a java se application?
search: - choose page language - brazilian portuguese - catalan - japanese - russian - simplified chinese home / docs & support general java development learning trail what is a java se application?
- setting up netbeans to generate a distributable jar file using onejar - configure netbeans using batch files - refactoring simplified - customizing the look and feel of the netbeans ide all community-contributed docs other resources - netbeans user faqs: - general project system - compiling and building - free-form project - debugging - profiling - editing - mysql and java - resources - mysql on-demand web seminars - learning java - resources - javapassion java intro - the java tutorials bookmark this page training java programming language support documentation general java development external tools and services java gui applications java ee & java web development web services applications netbeans platform (rcp) and module development php applications c/c++ applications mobile applications sample applications demos and screencasts more faqs contribute documentation!
the same unmodified java se applications can be run on almost any computer, whether that computer uses the microsoft windows, solaris, linux, or macos x operating systems.
a java se application is an application written to the java platform, standard edition (java se).
in addition to being a platform for multi-platform desktop applications, the java se platform is the basis for other technologies such as java platform, enterprise edition.
getting started - java quick start
by use of this website, you agree to the netbeans policies and terms of use.