but netbeans is  continuing to grow rapidly, and i expect it will bridge the gap when 7 comes  around.
eclipse is more popular
i prefer programming in java when i have my druthers, and the gui builder makes it a breeze to make graphical java applications (i can’t stress how useful the gui builder is).
just eclipse or eclipse in its wsad avatar or myeclipseide avatar is definitely good but hey..is it so good that nobody wants to be talk of netbeans these days???
think of java ides and two names that will come up are eclipse and  netbeans.
i prefer netbeans a little more than eclipse as i have been using it longer and am more comfortable with it.
but i  do hope it is very good.
* apr08 update – do have a look at this new comparison of jdeveloper, eclipse and netbeans ← older comments← older comments
netbeans is easier to learn  and very simple to create a new project in, either from existing sources or  from scratch.
i haven’t as yet tried out the new netbeans 4
hi i am new to java programming these days……..
i have to  use ide for java programming but what to prefer email:
the thing i am most surprised about is how rapidly eclipse has grown and how it has well and truly eclipsed netbeans over the past year or so.
oct  22 eclipse vs netbeans eclipse vs netbeans …on which side are you on?
i realize it’s not as modular as eclipse, but i have not yet run into the problem that i can’t solve with it.
so i expect more people to sing its praises just because they have more experience with it and know how to do the snazzy things with it that netbeans hasn’t caught up to yet.
i prefer programming in java when i have my druthers, and the  gui builder makes it a breeze to make graphical java applications (i  can’t stress how useful the gui builder is).
think of java ides and two names that will come up are eclipse and netbeans.
eclipse vs netbeans …on which side are you on?
i prefer netbeans a little more  than eclipse as i have been using it longer and am more comfortable with it.
sarode.sanket41@gmail.com http://profiles.google.com/a.lupine a. wolf i’m a big netbeans geek, and ever since 6.
hi i am new to java programming these days…….. i have to use ide for java programming but what to prefer eclipse or netbeans with regards, sanket sarode email: sarode.sanket41@gmail.com i’m a big netbeans geek, and ever since 6.
but i do hope it is very good.
just eclipse or eclipse in its wsad avatar or myeclipseide avatar is  definitely good but hey..is it so good that nobody wants to be talk of netbeans  these days???
i have been using netbeans for many years now and eclipse has been a more recent addition to my java armory.
i have been using netbeans for many years now and eclipse has been a  more recent addition to my java armory.
on other ide’s i might need an hour to figure out how to get “hello world” to compile if i haven’t run it in a while.
netbeans is set up to work with multiple programming languages, and the  learning curve is shallow, so i can do just about anything i need to (except  for perl or matlab, which probably should be avoided anyway).
oh, and svn support built in is pretty sweet, too (though i seem to have trouble getting my windows vista machine to connect to anything with remote ssh, i don’t think that’s a netbeans issue).
in the article: migrating to eclipse: a developer’s guide to  evaluating eclipse vs. netbeans, the author shows the differences  between the two ides.
but netbeans is continuing to grow rapidly, and i expect it will bridge the gap when 7 comes around.
the thing i am most surprised about is how rapidly eclipse has grown and  how it has well and truly eclipsed netbeans over the past year or so.
in the article: migrating to eclipse: a developer’s guide to evaluating eclipse vs. netbeans, the author shows the differences between the two ides.
the end user gets two very good ides.
netbeans is set up to work with multiple programming languages, and the learning curve is shallow, so i can do just about anything i need to (except for perl or matlab, which probably should be avoided anyway).
let us know which ide  you think is better and why.
so that the competition between eclipse and netbeans  stays fierce and there is no clear winner.
let us know which ide you think is better and why.
* it’s easily been my  ide of choice.
i have enjoyed working with both tools and as such don’t have a clear favorite.
netbeans is easier to learn and very simple to create a new project in, either from existing sources or from scratch.
on other ide’s i might need an hour to figure out how to  get “hello world” to compile if i haven’t run it in a while.
* it’s easily been my ide of choice.
so i expect more people to sing its praises  just because they have more experience with it and know how to do the snazzy  things with it that netbeans hasn’t caught up to yet.
oh, and svn  support built in is pretty sweet, too (though i seem to have trouble getting my  windows vista machine to connect to anything with remote ssh, i don’t  think that’s a netbeans issue).
so that the competition between eclipse and netbeans stays fierce and there is no clear winner.
i realize it’s not as modular  as eclipse, but i have not yet run into the problem that i can’t solve  with it.
i have enjoyed working with both tools  and as such don’t have a clear favorite.
* apr08 update – do have a look at this new comparison of jdeveloper,  eclipse and netbeans share written by content team on october 22, 2004 tagged with: java articles