while the news that apple is tracking your every move might not come as a surprise to jaded technocrats, the idea that this information isn't even encrypted is somewhat unsettling.
rightscale and zend team up with new paas the new rightscale zend php  high availability solution pack, a platform created by the zend/rightscale,  will allow enterprise-level php applications to be deployed in the cloud.
thanks jettro  coenradie.
average: 5 your rating: none average: 5 (1 vote) tags: published at dzone with permission of katie mckinsey , author.
life after visual studio 2010 - final thoughts on s#arp lite - how to create multiview editors for nodes spotlight resources groovy programming groovy is easy to start with.
recommended resources configuring and running fuse esb the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm micro focus silk performer nosql for the enterprise apache lucene 3.0
is devops killing the operations team?
mobile community megaphone podcast ep 33 with michael cru... you might also like popular on ruby zone - the 10 commandments of good source control management - json.org license
for those who haven't heard, writer peter warden and hacker alasdair allan sharedevidence that apple is tracking all ios 4 users.
which bug reports did you file?
other improvements include support for oracle database, the inclusion of glassfish 3.1, and enhanced integration with oracle weblogic.
thanks jettro coenradie.
dzone has great portals forpython, cloud, nosql, and html5!
: download the lucidworks certified distribution spotlight features how huffpost increased engagement by 14% huffpost created an immersive, app-like web experience with new pinned site features flash builder 4.5
even developers who aren't currently  using java 7 will benefit from the netbeans update.
kate stewart, ubuntu's release manager, suggests that that currentubuntu 6.06 users upgrade to 'hardy heron' or ubuntu 8.04 lts.
even developers who aren't currently using java 7 will benefit from the netbeans update.
support is included for java, php, ruby and .net.
literally says it "shall be used for good, not evil" - tweaking bayes’ theorem - must-have tools for developers on windows: part 2 - algorithm of the week: merge sort - github was hacked over the weekend - here's what happened, from multiple sources - some useful java classes that you might not know about - sometimes it takes 2 days to do 2 hours of work - all the mouse events in javascript - groovy, a reasonable jvm language for devops - developer efficiency - xcode vs. eclipse vs. visual studio - on useless testing... - dare to show your code - test driven development without tears - getting started with data mining latest articles - fractal programming - java and mocking - rails + gmail =
refcard this refcard outlines how to use flash builder 4.5 to develop flex applications, including creating new projects for desktop, web, and mobile platforms.
i'm speaking as a long-time netbeans user, releasing it at this time was a mistake.
- follow us - rss - google + - facebook - linkedin - twitter — brian kernigan advertising - terms of service - privacy - © 1997-2012, dzone, inc.
it should also be noted  that oracle removed netbeans 7's ruby on rails support in january, 2011.
although this version of the ubuntu server will be discontinued  in may, support will continue for two more years.
log in or join - home - refcardz - microzones - nosql zone - html5 zone - devops zone - solr-lucene - windows phone 7 - .net zone - python zone - zones - agile zone - cloud zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides and tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - links - snippets ruby zone
shh… apple might be watching apple knows where you've been.
while the news that apple is  tracking your every move might not come as a surprise to jaded technocrats, the  idea that this information isn't even encrypted is somewhat unsettling.
- login or register to post comments edvin syse replied on thu, 2011/04/21 - 4:22pm
although this version of the ubuntu server will be discontinued in may, support will continue for two more years.
mckinsey katie is a dzone employee and has posted 81 posts at dzone.
average: 5 your rating: none average: 5  (1 vote) tags:
rightscale and zend team up with new paasthe new rightscale zend php high availability solution pack, a platform created by the zend/rightscale, will allow enterprise-level php applications to be deployed in the cloud.
a standardized environment allows users to easily acclimate to the new system.
support ending for ubuntu server 6.06as of this june 2011, support will no longer be offered for ubuntu server 6.06.
lucene refcard apache lucene is a cross-platform, high-performance, full-text search engine library.
this reference of best practices and idiomatic solutions smoothly guides you to the next step of... html5 canvas: a web standard for dynamic graphics - dzone - refcardz - book reviews - tech library - it questions - snippets - my profile - about dzone - advertise - tools & buttons - send feedback - topics - html5 - wp7 - cloud - mobile - .net - python - java - php - solr-lucene - eclipse - jetbrains - netbeans - agile - devops controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.
- apple - java - java 7 - netbeans - php - ubuntu - zend - infrastructure - tools & methods - open source (note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.) comments cowwoc replied on wed, 2011/04/20 - 6:27pm oracle rushed netbeans 7 out the door.
when used in conjunction with apache solr, it becomes a world-class search platform.
support ending for ubuntu server 6.06
desktop support for 6.06 was discontinued two years ago.
other improvements  include support for oracle database, the inclusion of glassfish 3.1, and  enhanced integration with oracle weblogic.
the jdk 7 component of netbeans 7.0 is technically an early access snapshot.
for your enjoyment: the basics of node.js.
the jdk 7 component of netbeans 7.0 is technically an early  access snapshot.
a standardized environment allows users to easily acclimate to the new  system.
there are way too many bugs for it to be usable (yes, i've been filing bug reports).
for those who haven't  heard, writer peter warden and hacker alasdair allan sharedevidence that apple  is tracking all ios 4 users.
desktop support for 6.06 was  discontinued two years ago.
a netbeans 7.0.1 release in october will feature the  final version of jdk 7.
the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm innovate faster in the cloud with a platform as a service apache solr: download the lucidworks certified distribution oracle's newly released netbeans 7.0 features support for java 7  features.
they should have waited at least another month.
or, it might be more accurate to say that apple knows where your ipad or iphone has been.
kate stewart, ubuntu's release manager,  suggests that that currentubuntu 6.06 users upgrade to 'hardy heron' or ubuntu  8.04 lts.
email views: 25909 we recommend these resources implementing enterprise integration patterns micro focus silktest 2011 the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm innovate faster in the cloud with a platform as a service apache solr: download the lucidworks certified distribution oracle's newly released netbeans 7.0 features support for java 7 features.
- login or register to post comments comment viewing options flat list - collapsedflat list - expanded threaded list - collapsedthreaded list - expanded date - newest firstdate - oldest first 10 comments per page30 comments per page50 comments per page 70 comments per page90 comments per page150 comments per page200 comments per page250 comments per page300 comments per page select your preferred way to display the comments and click "save settings" to activate your changes.
or, it might be more accurate to say that  apple knows where your ipad or iphone has been.
simple email delivery - startup school 08 - theserverside java symposium europe is over - the server side java symposium europe: day 2 & day 3 - getting started with rails 2.0 scaffold - counting ruby objects on the jruby heap - netbeans weekly news (issue #528 - mar 12, 2012) - paint store price list generator on netbeans - netbeans weekly news (issue #527 - mar 5, 2012) - nunit’s new 'action attributes' feature is aop to your unit tests - introduction to log parser studio - visual studio installer projects:
a netbeans 7.0.1 release in october will feature the final version of jdk 7.
around the dzone network web builder popular at dzone - 1:romans, rubies and the d - 2:preventing mass-assignment injection in rails - 3:refactoring ruby edition - 4:the ruby on rails tutorial, now with twitter's bootstrap - 5:ry · github - 6:mass assignment vulnerability isn't just for rails - 7:domain driven design for rails developers see more popular at dzone subscribe to the rss feed migrating from php to python and django javalobby node and callbacks cloud a step-by-step guide to scaling independently in t... architects an introduction to 6 machine learning models javalobby
view full user profile daily dose: netbeans 7.0 has java 7 support 04.20.2011
it should also be noted that oracle removed netbeans 7's ruby on rails support in january, 2011.
as of this june 2011, support  will no longer be offered for ubuntu server 6.06.