eclipse is like an old car that you keep fixing up, it's  serviceable and runs good, but every once in a while, you get irritated,  because something doesn't work right.
in the process of configuring eclipse, i, of course, started messing with preferences.
i wanted to set up my beloved work environment, back to open-source.
you'll find several good articles on the web about this, so i won't go into individual features here.
i highly recommend you download and try netbeans.
netbeans seems like a new bmw  sports car.
no… i will certainly not go back to netbeans.
i've had all of this happen.
having done php development  full time for many years, zend studio had become my ide of choice.
eclipse is like an old car that you keep fixing up, it's serviceable and runs good, but every once in a while, you get irritated, because something doesn't work right.
if you do a feature by feature analysis of eclipse and netbeans, you'll find that both ide's pretty much have the same features and functionality.
netbeans main editor window with other windows closed
well, it comes down to the feel of the ide as  your using them.
you have a choice to install netbeans with just the php bundle, which is what i did, since i do not do a lot of java work.
it takes you quite a bit of time to initially configure preferences.
i had used eclipse before zend studio, and so this was pretty close to home.
the netbeans license is owned by oracle from its acquisition of sun, but it is a free and open source ide.
all the menus and functionality, except for some of the zend studio features, are the same.
the netbeans 7.1 download and install was seamless.
setting preferences is straightforward and java development support is great.
if both ide's pretty much have the same functionality, what is the  difference between the two?
the power of the  internet a new site coming for php – a preview → netbeans 7.1 review posted on january 21, 2012 by dalev one of outcomes of switching jobs is you lose some of your favorite  tools.
i downloaded the eclipse indigo 64bit and added the pdt plugin, and i find this  version quicker,  and much more stable.
i am a long time user of eclipse and ex netbeans user
by the way, my eclipse helios folder checks in at 390 mb.
not only that, if you set a  preference in one area, it might not be set in another, and may collide with  another preference, sometime throwing errors, or shutting down the  editor.
you have a choice to install netbeans  with just the php bundle, which is what i did, since i do not do a lot of java  work.
the netbeans license is owned by oracle  from its acquisition of sun, but it is a free and open source ide.
if you don’t want to use vi, use phpstorm.
not only that, if you set a preference in one area, it might not be set in another, and may collide with another preference, sometime throwing errors, or shutting down the editor.
what that means is setting preferences is a nightmare.
it deserved another look.
btw netbeans settings preferences compared to intellij is not so good… i agree only that netbeans is more newbie friendly and you don’t have to know much about classpath and compiling/building to produce a working application.
by the way, my eclipse  helios folder checks in at 390 mb.
in conclusion, because of problems i've had configuring colors with eclipse, even using theeclipse color theme plugin i wrote about in another post, i find myself using netbeans to write my code.
colors and fonts  are configured in one tab, php in another tab.
when things like this happen, i get pissed, and go looking for new  tools.
what that means is  setting preferences is a nightmare.
eclipse feels bloated.
netbeans is the best.
as far as the php-oops oriented coding is concern i would recommend netbeans as the ide.
the installer downloads 46.6 mb, which grows to 152.5 mb on install.
that is if you can download it intellij 11 is so awesome, that i have even bought it.
it deserved  another look.
the installer downloads  46.6 mb, which grows to 152.5 mb on install.
after a preliminary search showed that netbeans had good reviews,  i decided to give it a try.
you can have both  ide's running at the same time without conflicts.
because setting preferences is difficult in eclipse?
so you don't have to reconfigure then again, you export your preferences and import them to the new eclipse environments.
i'm guessing zend  studio preferences have problems with importing to eclipse.
if you don't like netbeans, you can stay with eclipse, but in the process of using both, i think you'll find yourself gradually moving to netbeans as your ide of choice.
not saying that netbeans can do things that eclipse can’t – the same is true the other way around, but in my experience netbeans just is more intuitive to use.
you'll find several good articles on the web about this,  so i won't go into individual features here.
using vi is not archaic, once you know vi.
the netbeans icon why would we gradually move?
i downloaded the eclipse indigo 64bit and added the pdt plugin, and i find this version quicker, and much more stable.
so you don't have to reconfigure then again, you  export your preferences and import them to the new eclipse environments.
i did an import of my zend studio preferences and then started changing some setting, and i had a hiccup.
i had tried netbeans before, and found it wanting for php development, but that was four years ago.
netbeans feels integrated, not like your bringing up a  separate application every time you go to a new area of the ide.
i had used eclipse before zend studio, and so this  was pretty close to home.
since zend studio costs money, as a newbie to my new company, i didn't see a lot of zend studio's installed.
eclipse + pydev for python (since the python support in netbeans has more ore less been dropped) 2.
anyways netbeans is a great tool after all.
you can set all colors and fonts for all languages at once, not like eclipse.
i had to reload everything including re-configuring my preferences.
anyone who has used eclipse understands what a nightmare the  eclipse preferences are.
if your a php developer, netbeans has integrated support for git, debugging, phpunit testing, phpdoc, smarty templates, symfony framework, and the zend framework.
netbeans for php development.
actually there is a funny alternative: aptana studio whicht is based on eclipse.
it is my prefered php server.
most of  the edits were done on a linux server running vim.
i trialed all the commercial ide’s/editors and so money really wasn’t an issue.
since zend studio costs money, as a newbie to my new company, i didn't see  a lot of zend studio's installed.
here you can for “format source code” and adapt a lot of stuff
or because netbeans was created with java in mind?
i have been using both eclipse and netbeans professionally (java), and when i can choose myself its a nobrainer: netbeans!netbeans do the same things as eclipse – but smoother and with all the stuff you need build in out of the box.
netbeans initial start up screen netbeans is a java application and requires java to run, which is probably already loaded on your computer.
i think you'll like it better, if you stay with eclipse.
netbeans with various windows open
since php is now an object-oriented language, like java, netbeans has  incorporated php into its editor.
it takes you quite a bit of time to initially  configure preferences.
i thought about good analogies and similes for the two editors.
one major weakness in eclipse is setting preferences on how you want the  editor to work.
if eclipse is a house built with a series of additions,  netbeans is a house built from the ground up by an architect.
but when you want more control and more advanced stuff i’m pretty sure eclipse is the way to go.
i did an import of my zend studio preferences and then started changing  some setting, and i had a hiccup.
after a preliminary search showed that netbeans had good reviews, i decided to give it a try.
i wanted to set up my beloved work environment, back to  open-source.
i would recommend eclipse  pdt users uninstall helios, download indigo, and add pdt.
but: they do *not* use pdt, they use another plugin (phpedit or so..)
colors and fonts are configured in one tab, php in another tab.
in conclusion, because of problems i've had configuring colors with  eclipse, even using theeclipse color theme plugin i wrote about in another  post, i find myself using netbeans to write my code.
anyone who has used eclipse understands what a nightmare the eclipse preferences are.
i give you that… for me netbeans is wisely written ide, very intuitive, effective, … i use netbeans for php and the support is awesome.
if your doing java development, netbeans should be your ide of choice,  since it was built with java development in mind.
all the menus and functionality, except for  some of the zend studio features, are the same.
afaik eclipse was also designed with java development in mind.
since php is now an object-oriented language, like java, netbeans has incorporated php into its editor.
and i’m certain now i won’t switch back to netbeans.
what surprised me was  how far netbeans has come as a php development environment.
each plugin added to eclipse has its own preferences, every section of eclipse has it own preferences.
you can set all colors and  fonts for all languages at once, not like eclipse.
by the way… i was netbeans fanatic for a long time then i tried eclipse again
it is possible to configure netbeans 7.1.1 with zend server ce?
i love open source, and my current choice is netbeans, but i’m constantly searching for better and faster native aps (for linux or windows), which are not slow and clumsy as these two
i had tried netbeans before, and found it  wanting for php development, but that was four years ago.
netbeans php preference screen
if you don't like  netbeans, you can stay with eclipse, but in the process of using both, i think  you'll find yourself gradually moving to netbeans as your ide of choice.
naturally, i downloaded eclipse pdt based on the helios release, on which  zend studio is built.
maybe intellij is next step but certanly not netbeans.
the installation took about 5 minutes and netbeans came up quickly and easily.
… and pdt seems to have lost the development momentum (i tested it 3 months ago the last time).
the installation took about 5 minutes and  netbeans came up quickly and easily.
in contrast, netbeans preferences are a pleasure.
i would recommend eclipse pdt users uninstall helios, download indigo, and add pdt.
one major weakness in eclipse is setting preferences on how you want the editor to work.
but both of these are far from “the best ide”.
one main argument for netbeans against eclipse+pdt: in netbeans you can format the sourcecode (and adapting your coding styles).
eclipse  feels bloated.
http://www.aptana.com/products/studio3 i can not download netbean’s latest version it says “the requested url /netbeans/7.1/final/bundles/netbeans-7.1-ml-linux.sh was not found on this server.”
one of outcomes of switching jobs is you lose some of your favorite tools.
netbeans initial start up screen netbeans is a java application and requires java to run, which is probably  already loaded on your computer.
having done php development full time for many years, zend studio had become my ide of choice.
each plugin added to eclipse has its own preferences,  every section of eclipse has it own preferences.
well, it comes down to the feel of the ide as your using them.
netbeans rocks, it has all of php developer needs… and very configurable i feel very much comfortable with netbeans.
the hiccup was eclipse balked at some setting i set, and blew away my entire workspace.
in the process of configuring eclipse, i, of course, started messing with  preferences.
for me that was zend studio.
netbeans seems like a new bmw sports car.
in all fairness to eclipse, i'm comparing this to eclipse helios pdt.
and i have to disagree with your arguments.
i'm guessing zend studio preferences have problems with importing to eclipse.
if both ide's pretty much have the same functionality, what is the difference between the two?
you can have both ide's running at the same time without conflicts.
this seemed a little archaic to me.
for simple things it is ok, but eclipse outperforms it in nearly everything advanced.
if you do a feature by feature analysis of eclipse and netbeans, you'll  find that both ide's pretty much have the same features and
netbeans feels integrated, not like your bringing up a separate application every time you go to a new area of the ide.
the hiccup was eclipse balked at some  setting i set, and blew away my entire workspace.
naturally, i downloaded eclipse pdt based on the helios release, on which zend studio is built.
when things like this happen, i get pissed, and go looking for new tools.
in eclipse+pdt i can only change the tab-space (at least i did not find anything else).
when i try to download.
this seemed a little archaic  to me.
i had to  reload everything including re-configuring my preferences.
pingback: netbeans 7.1 review: "eclipse is like an old... | eclipse | syngu i just started developing in php (coming form microsoft/visual studio) and spent quite a bit of time looking for a php ide.
what surprised me was how far netbeans has come as a php development environment.
if eclipse is a house built with a series of additions, netbeans is a house built from the ground up by an architect.
if your a php  developer, netbeans has integrated support for git, debugging, phpunit testing,  phpdoc, smarty templates, symfony framework, and the zend framework.
if your doing java development, netbeans should be your ide of choice, since it was built with java development in mind.
the feel you get while developing is also not as bloated and “old car” as you say from my perspective – eclipse is slow, too bloated, and clumsy.
netbeans is like an editor with a little bit of sophisticated tool calling where eclipse really is an ide.
most of the edits were done on a linux server running vim.
netbeans fonts and colors preference screen
in fact, i saw few ide's.
i think you'll  like it  better, if you stay with eclipse.
no.. i will certainly not go back to eclipse!