indeed most  developers consider something fast to be difficult to implement, but  that’s not the case of merge sort.
however this is not so difficult.
although i don’t think this can be the main reason why not to use merge sort some people say that it can be difficult to implement for beginners, especially the merge part of the algorithm.
hello, in this article you only present a recursive version of the merge sort algorithm.
i am interested in  any webpage optimizations techniques - for a faster web!
the problem with these three algorithms is that  their complexity is o(n2) so they are very slow.
obviously it will be better if we divide the list into two sub-lists with equal length and then sort them.
slower than insertion and bubble sort for nearly sorted input again it is very important to know the input data.
this dzone refcard provides an in depth introduction to the cloud computing technology, google app engine.
note that every algorithm that follows  the divide and conquer principles can be easily implemented in a recursive  solution.
it’s complexity is the same even in the worst case and it is o(n*log(n)).
the problem with these three algorithms is that their complexity is o(n2) so they are very slow.
the answer is yes and here’s how we can do it.
an iterative approach is presented here: http://www.javageneration.com/?p=389.
dzone has great portals for python, cloud, nosql , andhtml5!
python zone is brought to you in partnership with: stoimen popov website @stoimenpopov i've been working on web based projects built mainly with php and
note that in the best case insertion and bubble sort complexity is o(n), while merge sort’s best case is o(n*log(n)).
the python zoneis a community that features a diverse collection of news, tutorials, advice, and opinions about python and django.
easy implementation another cool reason is that merge sort is easy to implement.
this, of course, is not the best approach and we don’t need to do that.
merge sort is a great sorting algorithm mainly because it’s very fast and stable.
if you are looking for more information on cloud computing then this dzone refcard is for you.
if  (count($arr)  0 && count($right) > 0) { if ($left[0]  <= $right[0]) { array_push($result, array_shift($left)); } else {  array_push($result, array_shift($right)); } } array_splice($result,  count($result), 0, $left); array_splice($result, count($result), 0, $right);  return $result; } // 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 $output = merge_sort($input); complexity it’s great that the complexity of merge sort is o(n*log(n)) even in  the worst case!
normally if a problem is too difficult to solve, we can try to break it  apart into smaller sub-sets of this problem and try to solve them.
note that every algorithm that follows the divide and conquer principles can be easily implemented in a recursive solution.
indeed if the input is nearly sorted the insertion sort or bubble sort can be faster.
fast no matter the input merge sort is a great sorting algorithm mainly because it’s very fast  and stable.
insertion sort, bubble sort and shell sort are  based on the comparison model.
the python zone is sponsored bynew relic, the all-in-one web application performance tool that lets yousee performance from the end user experience, through servers, and down to the line of application code.
visit the python zone for news, tips,  and tutorials on the python programming language.
three reasons why merge sort is not useful 1.
as a conclusion i can say that merge sort is practically one of the best sorting algorithms because it’s easy to implement and fast, so it must be considered by every developer!
obviously it will be  better if we divide the list into two sub-lists with equal length and then sort  them.
indeed most developers consider something fast to be difficult to implement, but that’s not the case of merge sort.
note that even quicksort’s complexity can be o(n2) in the worst case.
the thing is that in some step of the algorithm we have two sorted lists  and the tricky part is to merge them.
it’s complexity is the same even in the worst case and it is  o(n*log(n)).
i already posted about some of the algorithms of the first group.
difficult to implement for beginners
snippets python  zone did you know?
another cool reason is that merge sort is easy to implement.
however recursion can be bitter so you can go for a iterative  solution.
overview merge sort is a comparison model sorting algorithm based on the  “divide and conquer” principle.
then somehow we can merge the results of the solved problems.
instead  we can try to divide the list into smaller lists and then sort them.
of course, this depends on the input data, so we must be careful of the  input.
recommended links "appops": the new frontier in apm pros and cons of saas performance monitoring groupon: dealing with massive user load what browser really is the fastest?
how mashable delivers a quality ux like this piece?
array(6, 5, 3, 1, 8, 7, 2, 4); function merge_sort($arr) { if (count($arr)  0 && count($right) > 0) { if ($left[0] <= $right[0]) { array_push($result, array_shift($left)); } else { array_push($result, array_shift($right)); } } array_splice($result, count($result), 0, $left); array_splice($result, count($result), 0, $right); return $result; } // 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 $output = merge_sort($input); it’s great that the complexity of merge sort is o(n*log(n)) even in the worst case!
the nature of those three algorithms mentioned above is that we almost  compared each two items from initial list.
(note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.)python is a fast, powerful, dynamic, and versatile programming language that is being used in a variety ofapplication domains.
you can read more from them attheir website.
it is written in c# but it can be easily converted to java or any other language.
typically recursion is “replaced” by additional memory space in iterative solutions.
again it is very important to know the input data.
share it with your friends:| more basically sorting algorithms can be divided into two main groups: those based on comparisons and those that are not.
you can read  more from them attheir website.
javascript, where i mostly use zend framework and jquery.
chaker, thanks for the information.
array(6, 5, 3, 1, 8, 7, 2, 4); function merge_sort($arr) {
so far so good, so let’s say we have a very large list of data, which we want to sort.
if they remain too large, we can continue breaking them down until we get  to something very easy to sort as shown on the diagram bellow.
normally if a problem is too difficult to solve, we can try to break it apart into smaller sub-sets of this problem and try to solve them.
we  can start comparing the first items of the lists and than we can pop the  smaller of them both and put it into a new list containing the merged (sorted)  array.
it has flourished as a beginner-friendly language that is penetrating more and more industries.
the thing is that in some step of the algorithm we have two sorted lists and the tricky part is to merge them.
however recursion can be bitter so you can go for a iterative solution.
slower than non-comparison based algorithms merge sort is however based on the comparison model and as such can be  slower than algorithms not based on comparisons that can sort data in linear  time.
merge sort is a comparison model sorting algorithm based on the “divide and conquer” principle.
i've been working on web based projects built mainly with php and javascript, where i mostly use zend framework and jquery.
after sorting the smaller lists, which is supposed to be easier than sorting the entire initial list, we can try to merge the result into one sorted list.
here’s a recursive version of merge sort.
here’s the implementation in php.
note that in the  best case insertion and bubble sort complexity is o(n), while merge  sort’s best case is o(n*log(n)).
so we can be sure that merge sort is very stable no matter the input.
then somehow  we can merge the results of the solved problems.
this technique is typically known as “divide and conquer”.
of course, this depends on the input data, so we must be careful of the input.
instead we can try to divide the list into smaller lists and then sort them.
get an in depth comparison on three different cloud...
note that even quicksort’s complexity is o(n2) in the worst  case, which for n = 20 is about 4.6 times slower!
covering everything from the basics...
so we can be sure that merge sort is very stable no matter the  input.
as a conclusion i can say that merge sort is practically one of the best  sorting algorithms because it’s easy to implement and fast, so it must be  considered by every developer!
indeed if the input is  nearly sorted the insertion sort or bubble sort can be faster.
if they remain too large, we can continue breaking them down until we get to something very easy to sort as shown on the diagram bellow.
typically recursion is “replaced” by additional memory  space in iterative solutions.
stoimen is a dzone mvb and is not an employee of dzone and has posted 62 posts at dzone.
note that even quicksort’s complexity is o(n2) in the worst case, which for n = 20 is about 4.6 times slower!
although i don’t think this can be the main reason why not to use  merge sort some people say that it can be difficult to implement for beginners,  especially the merge part of the algorithm.
i already posted about some of the  algorithms of the first group.
we can start comparing the first items of the lists and than we can pop the smaller of them both and put it into a new list containing the merged (sorted) array.
new relic provides the  resources and best practices to help you monitor these applications.
insertion sort, bubble sort and shell sort are based on the comparison model.
i have republished your linked post here: recursive and interative merge sort implementations.
this,  of course, is not the best approach and we don’t need to do that.
implementation the good news is that this algorithm is fast, but not too difficult to  implement and that sounds quite good from a developer’s point of view.
two reasons why merge sort is useful 1.
so is it possible to sort a list of items by comparing their items faster than o(n2)?
share it with your friends: | more basically sorting algorithms can be divided into two main groups: those  based on comparisons and those that are not.
so is it possible to sort a list of items by comparing their items faster  than o(n2)?
i am interested in any webpage optimizations techniques - for a faster web!
merge sort is however based on the comparison model and as such can be slower than algorithms not based on comparisons that can sort data in linear time.
view full user profile like this piece?
note that even quicksort’s complexity can be o(n2) in the  worst case.
view full user profile algorithm of the week: merge sort 03.06.2012  email views:  13063 tweet this content is part of the python zone, which is  presented to you by dzone andnew relic.
the nature of those three algorithms mentioned above is that we almost compared each two items from initial list.
this  technique is typically known as “divide and conquer”.
the good news is that this algorithm is fast, but not too difficult to implement and that sounds quite good from a developer’s point of view.
so far so good, so let’s say  we have a very large list of data, which we want to sort.
after  sorting the smaller lists, which is supposed to be easier than sorting the  entire initial list, we can try to merge the result into one sorted list.
stoimen is a dzone mvb  and is not an employee of dzone and has posted 62 posts at dzone.