his main gripe is that eclipse is bad because you can’t create/run swing apps in eclipse on mac os x.
there’s also a mistake in his blog about the fact that ‘i can  run the same code on any platform’.
in fact, the plugin architecture allows for multiple window providers and operating systems in thesame install; so i have a shared plugins directory which i actually share for both windows and mac environments.
granted, 99% of the code behind-the-covers is portable, but the bit at the front (the launcher) is different in both places.
i’m sorry  charles’, but that just isn’t true.
run  swing apps in eclipse on mac os x.
the guy works for sun microsystems, he blogs about netbeans as if it’s the best project in the world, and clearly isn’t interested in an impartial view.
in reality, there are a number of java ides out there, and each tends to have its own loyal following of developers.
(on a side node, if we want to complain about installers; how about configuring your download process to get rid of the .gz extension?
(radar  is the name of apple’s bug-tracking system, in case you’re  interested.)
that’s exactly the same principle  behind eclipse.
what’s more interesting is that there a number of  commercial spin-offs, and of those,rational software architect (formerly  websphere studio application developer) are both built on top of eclipse,  borland has become an eclipse srategic partner, and the bea weblogic studio are  eclipse-based (or eclipse-aligned) as well.
granted, 99% of the code  behind-the-covers is portable, but the bit at the front (the launcher) is  different in both places.
the mac os x download takes the form of a mac os x application; the windows has a windows launcher.
i’ve been using eclipse on mac os x since it came out, and i was spending my spare time as a tester for the eclipse mac os x release before it became 2.1.
but the main reason for eschewing charles’ review of eclipse vs netbeans is his comments oneclipse on mac os x broken.
what’s more interesting is that there a number of commercial spin-offs, and of those,rational software architect (formerly websphere studio application developer) are both built on top of eclipse, borland has become an eclipse srategic partner, and the bea weblogic studio are eclipse-based (or eclipse-aligned) as well.
so take what he says with a pinch  of salt at best.
i’ve been using eclipse  on mac os x since it came out, and i was spending my spare time as a tester for  the eclipse mac os x release before it became 2.1.
in reality, there are a number of java ides out there, and each tends to  have its own loyal following of developers.
well, actually charles, that  isn’t quite true.
but in the bigger world, there are  a number of developers who just use it to write code.
there’s several  different development environments:eclipse, intellij idea, jbuilder and of  coursenetbeans.
» my delicious bookmarks
the only difference is that where a vanilla install of eclipse  for windows will have a plugin for the windows swt, and the mac has one for the  aqua swt, i actually have both in the plugin directory.
a less blinkered viewpoint about where eclipse and netbeans are heading in  the community is fairly obvious; all you have to do is look to which companies  are aligned with which environment: netbeans
in fact, the plugin architecture allows for  multiple window providers and operating systems in thesame install; so i  have a shared plugins directory which i actually share for both windows and mac
i raised 280 bugs towards improving the quality of the application as a whole, and whilst i agree it’s not quite there (it’s not quite as ‘polished’ as a normal eclipse app), it’s still perfectly usable.
it’s not hard to wonder why  that in areview of the four top ides (though, surprisingly, intellij/idea  wasn’t reviewed), that sun’s enterprise studio came bottom of the  four.
a less blinkered viewpoint about where eclipse and netbeans are heading in the community is fairly obvious; all you have to do is look to which companies are aligned with which environment: if you also read between the lines, oracle are leaning towards eclipse; don’t be surprised to see that they join in the not too distant future.
this has actually been traced to a bug in  the awt implementation of the jvm, and the radar bug filed with apple.
it too has the same set of plugins for the code base, of which 99% is common; the 1% in eclipse’s case includes both the os-specific launcher and also the swt dlls.
mac os x runs both apr 29th, 2005 2005, eclipse, mac charles ditzel (e-mail, blog), infamous sun employee and vociferous critic  ofeclipse on mac os x wrote recently that “the result is that many  eclipse developers have switched to netbeans and others are beginning the  migration to netbeans by using both ides.”.
eclipse versus netbeans --
saying that x doesn’t work with y  when y just plain refuses to work with anything else is not a great way to win  an argument.
in fact, you seem to  have surfed the bug reports for anything involving ‘swt’ and  ‘mac os x’ and then linked them in your blog, rather than having an  understanding about them; i don’t see your name cropping up in any bug  reports or comments.
apr 29th, 20052005, eclipse, mac charles ditzel (e-mail, blog), infamous sun employee and vociferous critic ofeclipse on mac os x wrote recently that “the result is that many eclipse developers have switched to netbeans and others are beginning the migration to netbeans by using both ides.”.
there’s several different development environments:eclipse, intellij idea, jbuilder and of coursenetbeans.
this has actually been traced to a bug in the awt implementation of the jvm, and the radar bug filed with apple.
the only difference is that where a vanilla install of eclipse for windows will have a plugin for the windows swt, and the mac has one for the aqua swt, i actually have both in the plugin directory.
so take what he says with a pinch of salt at best.
it’s also related to the fact that suns jvm implementation (which apple licenses) isn’t sufficiently flexible to allow other gui threads to interact with swing, so if there’s a bad boy in the crowd, it’s still swing, not eclipse.
posted by alex blewitt apr 29th, 2005 2005, eclipse, mactweet « when java just doesn't swing apple shifts to intel: what is all the fuss about?
i raised 280 bugs towards  improving the quality of the application as a whole, and whilst i agree  it’s not quite there (it’s not quite as ‘polished’ as a  normal eclipse app), it’s still perfectly usable.
it too has the same set of plugins for the code base, of which  99% is common; the 1% in eclipse’s case includes both the os-specific  launcher and also the swt dlls.
but the main reason for eschewing charles’ review of eclipse vs  netbeans is his comments oneclipse on mac os x broken.
his main gripe is that eclipse is bad because you can’t create/
well, actually charles, that isn’t quite true.
firstly, it’s clear to see that charles’ viewpoint is heavily  biased towards netbeans.
the mac os x download takes the form of a mac os x  application; the windows has a windows launcher.
the guy works for sun microsystems, he blogs about  netbeans as if it’s the best project in the world, and clearly  isn’t interested in an impartial view.
firstly, it’s clear to see that charles’ viewpoint is heavily biased towards netbeans.
but in the bigger world, there are a number of developers who just use it to write code.
» copyright © 2012 - alex blewitt - powered by octopress
it’s also related to the fact that suns jvm implementation  (which apple licenses) isn’t sufficiently flexible to allow other gui  threads to interact with swing, so if there’s a bad boy in the crowd,  it’s still swing, not eclipse.
the eclipse install takes the right ‘mac os x’ approach, and provides it as a dmg, which can be dragged and dropped into the right place.)
in fact, you seem to have surfed the bug reports for anything involving ‘swt’ and ‘mac os x’ and then linked them in your blog, rather than having an understanding about them; i don’t see your name cropping up in any bug reports or comments.
i’m sorry charles’, but that just isn’t true.
all browsers know about gzip decompression on the fly, with the result that when the file gets down, it’s saved as netbeans_4-1.dmg.gz, but it’s been decompressed by my browser; so the os refuses to open it.
(on a side node, if we want to complain about installers; how about  configuring your download process to get rid of the .gz extension?
(radar is the name of apple’s bug-tracking system, in case you’re interested.)
all browsers  know about gzip decompression on the fly, with the result that when the file  gets down, it’s saved as netbeans_4-1.dmg.gz, but it’s been  decompressed by my browser; so the os refuses to open it.
it’s not hard to wonder why that in areview of the four top ides (though, surprisingly, intellij/idea wasn’t reviewed), that sun’s enterprise studio came bottom of the four.
saying that x doesn’t work with y when y just plain refuses to work with anything else is not a great way to win an argument.
the eclipse install  takes the right ‘mac os x’ approach, and provides it as a dmg,  which can be dragged and dropped into the right place.)
that’s exactly the same principle behind eclipse.
there’s also a mistake in his blog about the fact that ‘i can run the same code on any platform’.