"lord of the  zones") at dzone.
they plan  to continue the development of glassfish enterprise server as the open source  ri of java ee specifications.
personally i always hated jdeveloper.
oracle can't maintain 2 or 3 competing product lines (and i can only imagine the amount of internal politics between jdeveloper and netbeans teams, glassfish vs weblogic teams, etc).
i am hearing the hammering of netbeans coffin nails if this doesn't cease soon.
i think all of these products have a much better future than if ibm had bought sun.
(tumble weed rolls by)
i can easily see netbeans being recommended by oracle for developing consumer applications (desktop, mobile, embedded) on the java platform, with jdeveloper being recommended for developing enterprise applications (web, soa, mobile web).
from a perspective, every acquisition is partially anticompetitive.
dzone has great portals forpython, cloud, nosql, and html5!
he often has hotdogs for lunch, likes to make his own ringtones, enjoys card and board games, and is married to an underwear model.
that means he writes and searches for the finest developer content in the land so that you don't have to.
eclipse is broken up and scatterbrained.
glassfish, openoffice, netbeans and virtualbox were just  some of the items mentioned.
i believe that glassfish is here to stay, because jee is open sourced and needs a reference implementation, thus justifying the existence of two separate products.
no matter how hard i've tried in the past to stay angry at microsoft and embrace java and open source, all this with oracle may be the final staw for me.
netbeans is integrated and looks and feels like one toolset instead of the smattering of tools that it actually is.
that's why i've been wary of relying on sun's open source product lines (afraid all the funding for them would dry up sooner or later), preferring instead oss competitors that have proven to be successful on their own (jetty, spring, eclipse, etc.).
conversely, how do oracle users benefit from oracle owning mysql?
how do glassfish or weblogic users benefit from the aquisition?
if these succeed then oracle will surely have a great portfolio.
oracle puts a disclaimer in the faq saying that this document  is not a binding statement however, it is the first news we've heard on the  fate of several popular sun technologies.
the more larry and his team talk about their plans for sun's products, the more i find myself opposing the purchase.
for netbeans, oracle didn't say anything, as "is expected to provide..." doesn't make clear who will fund this "expectation".
it is interesting to note that oracle is no longer a company that is just involved on the enterprise side.
so, if the acquisition doesn't take place, it will be much worse.
"lord of the zones") at dzone.
" glassfish oracle says it  will "invest in aligning common infrastructure components and  innovations" between oracle weblogic server and glassfish.
virtualization products oracle "expects" to continue sun's desktop virtualization  products.
as a mysql user, tell me how i stand to benefit from my data storage tool being owned by a company that views mysql as something that eats millions of dollars per year in potential oracle database licensing?
conversely, how do jdeveloper and eclipse users benefit from this aquisition?
basically the document published today doesn't say anything or just a few things.
but it is at the top of my short list should i need a full blown ee server that does not cost $25,000 per cpu.
i am not interested in becoming the step-children hidden in the back room of oracle.
here are some specifics on each project: netbeans oracle intends to provide netbeans as an  "additional open source option" to complement jdeveloper and oracle  enterprise pack for eclipse.
cuts wil have to follow and guess who will be up first.
nobody benefits here either.
i see this aquisition as highly anticompetitive if allowed to take place.
you can read more from them attheir website.
the nice thing about his plan is that netbeans, glassfish and virtualbox are all what some programmers need to fasten and improve the uses of these products.
"   a commercial license for openoffice will also be available to customers that  require enterprise level support and tools.
oracle says it will actively support the  glassfish community.
it would be very foolish for oracle to drop support for virtualbox considering that it is rapidly becoming a major contender for consumer virtualisation alongside vmware workstation and virtual pc.
mitch is a dzone employee and has posted 1671  posts at dzone.
mitch pronschinske is the senior content curator (aka.
that means he writes and searches for the finest  developer content in the land so that you don't have to.
i find netbeans to be the best java ide there is.
in any case, the alternative was ibm (the "owner" of the eclipse foundation) or the failure - well, failure is anticompetitive by its very nature, as things mostly vanish in thin air.
as for oracle's plans on supporting java me and java embedded it is likely that they will support it, despite that fact that oracle haven't mentioned anything about it.
i'm sorry larry, your pr speak does nothing to convince me that there is anything even remotely altruistic in your intentions.
the plans for sparc,  solaris, and mysql are justreiterations of announcements made at oracle  openworld.
mitch pronschinske bio website @mpron mitch pronschinske is the senior content curator (aka.
senior healthcare consultants programming groovy is easy to start with.
esb implementing enterprise integration patterns more revealing  statements have finally surfaced about oracle's future plans for popular java  tools.
oracle recently updated itsfaq on the future of sun  technologies.
this reference of best practices and idiomatic solutions smoothly guides you to the next step of...
it just smells anticompetitive in every respect.
recently in the last few years oracle have started to get involved in the consumer side.
microsoft has major flaws but at least i won't have to worry about losing good tools to someone whose ego is larger than their world headquarters complex.
view full user profile (note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.) oracle plans to accelerate investment in the java platform for the benefit of customers and the java community.
it was intended to be a workbench that housed many interoperable tools, but that strength has become its weakness in my mind.
sun had to be acquired at this point, unfortunately -- as much as i'd have loved to see them succeed on their own.
i haven't tried to use it in quite some time so it could be better now, but it was garbage before so it could only go up in my opinion.
the plans are really something and i hope oracle will get all the support.
java is one of the computer industry’s best-known brands and the java platform is one of the industry’s most widely deployed technologies.
i have no requirement for glassfish right now
i believe that for netbeans and other products there is still no decision.
i hope i'm wrong, but i am afraid this will only last (most likely) till the first quarter when oracle fails to meet financial expectations.
that's just how it works.
i don't think oracle has any good product(s) for covering consumer virtualisation.
i just don't see an upside for developers or consumers, but possibly for oracle shareholders.
they include vdi, secure global desktop, sun ray, and  virtualbox.
oracle makes it clear however, that  jdeveloper is still "oracle's strategic development tool" for oracle  fusion and future enterprise applications.
he often has hotdogs  for lunch, likes to make his own ringtones, enjoys card and board games, and is  married to an underwear model.
mitch is a dzone employee and has posted 1671 posts at dzone.
would you rather simply see the corporate backer of netbeans, mysql, and glassfish go under?
open office oracle will  "continue developing and supporting openoffice as open source.
as a netbeans user, tell me how i stand to benefit from my development tool being owned by a strategic member of the eclipse foundation (the primary platform and ide competitor to netbeans) and a company that also produces its own ide (jdeveloper) which is a secondary platform and ide competitor to netbeans?
not disliked or wasn't fond of, i hated it.
oracle plans to not only broaden and accelerate its own investment in the java platform, but also plans to increase the commitment to the community that helps make java an ubiquitous, innovative platform unified around open standards."
we all know what larry's plans are for javafx so it is likely to be supported by oracle.
by the way, i also use virtualbox and open office, awsome tools.
as for netbeans it is most likely that oracle will continue its support and funding but will likely cut back on java ee support for the ide, and increase its javafx/java se/java me support.
i find it interesting to note that while oracle is touting the greatness of all its own junk while purchasing sun for pity it seems since oracle has vastly superior stuff, microsoft is announcing their embracing of eclipse developers in the windows 7 and windows server 2008 operating systems.
in each case, the wolf is not only watching the hen house, the wolf is trying to buy the whole farm.
oracle says that jdeveloper,  enterprise pack, and netbeans will all be options "for pure java and java  ee development.
they may not all have perfectly rosy futures, but better than sun just going belly up.
profile oracle reveals plans for netbeans, glassfish, and virtualbox 10.28.2009  email apache lucene 3.0: download the lucidworks certified distribution the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm migrating to fuse mediation router configuring and running fuse
oracle has been a leader in the java community since the inception of the java programming language and already has the world’s largest investment in the java platform, which provides the foundation for its oracle fusion middleware products and its next-generation enterprise applications.
they were natually going to be acquired by someone in the industry.
for the rest, i think we're discussing on weak basis.