cloud deploying a django app on the cloud using dotcloud .net xml stack for node.js on windows you might also like popular on javalobby - filtering the stack trace from hell - javascript's two zeros - 10 best practices of code commenting & formatting - blast aliens in your browser with your ios trigger device - java news flash!
whether you’re new to data access in java or are familiar with the pain associated with the limitations of type 4 jdbc drivers, you will want to check out this complementary webinar featuring two jdbc experts, jonathan bruce and jesse davis.
recommended resources micro focus silk performer migrating to fuse mediation router the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm implementing enterprise integration patterns getting started with fuse mediation router spotlight features hadoop in practice git vs. svn - basic commandline syntax reference
web builder interview: todd anglin on telerik, kendo ui, and h... web builder how to set up wordpress on ec2 using puppet and gi... mobile android – how to implement google search inside ...
oracle lays out java 9, 10 roadmap - 12 essential skills for software architects - new refcardz topics (round 2): awesome or lame?
dzone has great portals forpython, cloud, nosql, and html5!
the 10 commandments of good source control management the battle of soa - long term vision around the dzone network architects popular at dzone - 1:how to rock out with jrebel and google web toolkit (gwt) - 2:unit tests: searching under the lamp post - 3:building scalable enterprise systems - 4:complexity of time - 5:android – how to implement google search inside your app - 6:google app engine java capabilities and namespaces api - 7:what it takes to participate in open source projects?
your rating: 0 tags: published at dzone with permission of nitin bharti, author.
together they will discuss and debate the need for a new type of jdbc driver – a type 5 jdbc driver that: - overcomes the limitations of type 4 jdbc driver architecture - delivers better java application performance regardless of what data access model the application uses - allows modern data-driven java applications to easily take advantage of years of innovation in database features without requiring code changes whether your jpa, hibernate, or spring-based applications are experiencing performance problems or if adding new database features to your application is resulting in brittle code changes and work-arounds, you'll definitely want to check out this presentation.
view full user profile free webinar: why java needs type 5 jdbc drivers 03.24.2010
- follow us - rss - google + - facebook - linkedin - twitter — brian kernigan advertising - terms of service - privacy - © 1997-2012, dzone, inc.
register now to learn what a type 5 jdbc driver is and to get your questions about it answered.
you've been implementing main() wrong all this time unlearn, young programmer new features in fork/join from java concurrency master, doug lea the most important languages for devops most popular tools used on our java paas my problem with your interviews algorithm of the week: radix sort 10 best practices for code commenting & formatting popular  on javalobby how to fix memory leaks in java lucene's fuzzyquery is 100 times faster in 4.0 is hibernate the best choice?
9 programming languages to watch
see more popular at dzone subscribe to the rss feed using neo4j to make predictions for fast senctence...
see more  popular at dzone subscribe to the rss feed around the dzone network  architects using neo4j to make predictions for fast senctence...
google app engine for java this dzone refcard provides an in depth introduction to the cloud computing  technology, google app engine.
(note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the  opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.)
persistence published at dzone with permission of nitin bharti,  author.
covering everything from the basics...
- you've been implementing main() wrong all this time - unlearn, young programmer - new features in fork/join from java concurrency master, doug lea - the most important languages for devops - most popular tools used on our java paas -
email views: 15561 we recommend these resources getting started with fuse mediation router best practices for building high performance development teams java enterprise performance the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm migrating to fuse mediation router
google app engine for java this dzone refcard provides an in depth introduction to the cloud computing technology, google app engine.
- introduction to oracle's adf faces rich client framework - time slider: opensolaris 2008.11 killer feature - netbeans weekly news (issue #530 - mar 19, 2012) - bielefeld university on the netbeans platform again - netbeans weekly news (issue #529 - mar 19, 2012) - accounting software on netbeans - netbeans weekly news (issue #528 - mar 12, 2012) - paint store price list generator on netbeans - netbeans weekly news (issue #527 - mar 5, 2012) - nunit’s new 'action attributes' feature is aop to your unit tests spotlight resources html5 canvas: a web standard for dynamic graphics getting started with cloud computing
covering everything from the basics... - dzone - refcardz - book reviews - tech library - it questions - snippets - my profile - about dzone - advertise - tools & buttons - send feedback - topics - html5 - wp7 - cloud - mobile - .net - python - java - php - solr-lucene - eclipse - jetbrains - netbeans - agile - devops controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.
recommended resources migrating to fuse mediation router the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm implementing enterprise integration patterns getting started with fuse mediation router spotlight features git vs. svn - basic commandline syntax reference
(note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.)
cloud deploying a django app on the cloud using dotcloud .net xml stack for node.js on windows you might also like filtering the stack trace from hell javascript's two zeros 10 best practices of code commenting & formatting blast aliens in your browser with your ios trigger device java news flash!
in 2011 - how to create visual applications in java?
log in or join - home - refcardz - microzones - nosql zone - html5 zone - devops zone - solr-lucene - windows phone 7 - .net zone - python zone - zones - agile zone - cloud zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides and tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - links - snippets javalobby did you know?
my problem with your interviews - algorithm of the week: radix sort - 10 best practices for code commenting & formatting latest articles - spring batch - hello world - how to fix memory leaks in java - lucene's fuzzyquery is 100 times faster in 4.0 - is hibernate the best choice?
if you are looking for more information on cloud computing then this dzone  refcard is for you.
nitin bharti nitin has posted 391 posts at dzone.
if you are looking for more information on cloud computing then this dzone refcard is for you.
the 10 commandments of good source control management the battle of soa - long term vision popular at dzone 1:how to rock out with jrebel and google web toolkit (gwt) 2:unit tests: searching under the lamp post 3:building scalable enterprise systems 5:android – how to implement google search inside your app 6:google app engine java capabilities and namespaces api 7:what it takes to participate in open source projects?
- 9 programming languages to watch
oracle lays out java 9, 10 roadmap 12 essential skills for software architects new refcardz topics (round 2): awesome or lame?
in 2011 how to create visual applications in java? introduction to oracle's adf faces rich client framework time slider: opensolaris 2008.11 killer feature latest articles netbeans weekly news (issue #530 - mar 19, 2012) bielefeld university on the netbeans platform again netbeans weekly news (issue #529 - mar 19, 2012) accounting software on netbeans netbeans weekly news (issue #528 - mar 12, 2012) paint store price list generator on netbeans netbeans weekly news (issue #527 - mar 5, 2012) nunit’s new 'action attributes' feature is aop to your unit tests spotlight resources html5 canvas: a web standard for dynamic graphics getting started with cloud computing
get an in depth comparison on three different cloud...