- lucene's fuzzyquery is 100 times faster in 4.0 - 9 programming languages to watch
following a successful startup to scale large web sites in the  early days of the internet, he spent the next 13 years actively involved in the  evolution of web technologies, working as product manager or product marketing  manager for flash remoting, coldfusion, flex, and other web development  technologies.
ecs tools can help  organizations leverage years of development investments to lower the cost of  today’s software development.
covering everything from the basics... - dzone - refcardz - book reviews - tech library - it questions - snippets - my profile - about dzone - advertise - tools & buttons - send feedback - topics - html5 - wp7 - cloud - mobile - .net - python - java - php - solr-lucene - eclipse - jetbrains - netbeans - agile - devops controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.
dave gruber dave is black duck software’s director of developer marketing.
ecs tools can search both internally-indexed code bases and external open source software repositories.
these tools have pre-built adapters to connect to and index code from leading scm products, and because they provide read-only access, can be implemented without impact to the actual scm systems.
while developers can leverage code search from within their local ide, they are limited to seeing what’s in their workspace.
ecs tools can help organizations leverage years of development investments to lower the cost of today’s software development.
view full user profile your company already has the code you need, but you’ll never find it 04.04.2012  email best practices for open source adoption best practices for building high performance development teams java enterprise performance nosql for the enterprise enterprise source code – a multi-million dollar under-utilized asset
if you are looking for more information on cloud computing then this dzone refcard is for you.
dave has posted 1 posts at dzone.
there is  one type of tool that could help you take better advantage of internal and  external code: enterprise code search.
dave gruber bio dave is black duck software’s director of developer marketing.
dave  has a cs degree and 15 years’ experience in enterprise application  development.
and ecs  tools can provide plug-ins for developer ides, further integrating code search  into a developer’s every day experience.
dave has a cs degree and 15 years’ experience in enterprise application development.
applications frequently leverage api calls to other internal or external  components.
further, because up to 80% of the code in apps today can come from open source projects, being able to extend the search capability to include open source projects that live outside the organization also becomes important.
while some apis are easy to understand, most are not.
apis – looking around for reference info today’s
object-oriented css is crap!
and  most of that code is locked up in a source control management system (scm)  specific to an app or to an organization.
while developers can leverage code search from within their local  ide, they are limited to seeing what’s in their workspace.
following a successful startup to scale large web sites in the early days of the internet, he spent the next 13 years actively involved in the evolution of web technologies, working as product manager or product marketing manager for flash remoting, coldfusion, flex, and other web development technologies.
the typical api has little documentation and few good examples, so it can be frustrating and time consuming for people to figure out how to use them successfully.
and getting  visibility to code in other scms can even be more difficult.
the easy answer to this problem would be to either enable people to see  examples of how other people have already used an api or to provide visibility  into the code behind the api.
you can read more from them attheir website.
applications frequently leverage api calls to other internal or external components.
to accomplish this, developers would need an easy way to search for and view an api call within existing code stored in enterprise code repositories.
you can read  more from them attheir website.
tags: enterprise code search
this is the reality for most large companies managing hundreds of millions of lines of code -- the majority of which was purpose-built to solve specific application problems.
your ide won’t solve the problem
architects regarding cloudstack's move to the apache foundati...
the easy answer to this problem would be to either enable people to see examples of how other people have already used an api or to provide visibility into the code behind the api.
and most of that code is locked up in a source control management system (scm) specific to an app or to an organization.
yet millions of dollars are spent every year to create and maintain code, often with little focus on leveraging existing code assets that are hiding somewhere in your organization.
in 2011 - how to create visual applications in java?
dzone has great portals forpython, cloud, nosql, and html5!
he has a long history of speaking at large and small developer  conferences around the world.
long live object-orie... javalobby testing polish language analysis solr 4.0 web builder
tags: published at dzone with permission of dave gruber, author.
the fundamental types of python – a diagram you might also like popular on javalobby - new refcardz topics (round 2): awesome or lame? - my language is better than yours - the return of vim - dns for developers – now there’s no excuse not to know - algorithm of the week: brute force string matching - the battle of soa - long term vision - the exciting future of javascript - algorithm of the week: rabin-karp string searching - most popular nosql databases according to linkedin skillsets - a how-to guide for hosting on openshift - beyond java orm: what versant did with the jpa (part 1) - java with a bit of osgi - the book - play 2 – some people don't seem to realize what they have - 3 myths about release and deployment management - poll: how do we handle our application environments?
the typical  api has little documentation and few good examples, so it can be frustrating  and time consuming for people to figure out how to use them successfully.
apis – looking around for reference infotoday’s
enterprise code search (ecs) tools can index massive amounts of internal code from many different scms, providing developers with easy-to-use search tools that can display formatted code.
- introduction to oracle's adf faces rich client framework - time slider: opensolaris 2008.11 killer feature - exploiting the cloud for personal productivity - design patterns, the emperor’s new clothes and catch 22 - find/replace using regular expressions with capture groups in intellij - how to use spdy with jetty - java 7's support for suppressed exceptions - null and 3-dimensional ordering helpers in java - configuring windows azure to store diagnostic information - 7 deadly sins for windows phone developers: wrath spotlight resources getting started with cloud computing
recommended resources java enterprise performance innovate faster in the cloud with a platform as a service micro focus silk performer best practices for open source adoption micro focus silktest 2011 spotlight features dns for developers – now there’s no excuse not to know java with a bit of osgi - the book another take on java scheduling play 2 – some people don't seem to realize what they have around the dzone network mobile popular at dzone - 1:writing eclipse plugins tutorial - part 1 - 2:5 useful methods jsf developers should know - 3:configuring quartz with jdbcjobstore in spring - 4:play framework 2 quicktip:
architects gain a better understanding of mongodb master/slav... web builder
when most people think about a company’s assets, source code  doesn’t show up on the list.
enterprise code search (ecs) tools can  index massive amounts of internal code from many different scms, providing  developers with easy-to-use search tools that can display formatted code.
so while some organizations may have  already figured out how to wholesale reuse some of their code, every  organization has the opportunity to help their development teams develop new  applications faster by providing them greater visibility into existing  enterprise code bases.
scala console - 5:testing with embed for vaadin - 6:urgent fix for zero-day mac java flaw - 7:griffon 0.9.5 released see more popular at dzone subscribe to the rss feed
and getting visibility to code in other scms can even be more difficult.
and ecs tools can provide plug-ins for developer ides, further integrating code search into a developer’s every day experience.
email views: 1999 we recommend these resources best practices for open source adoption best practices for building high performance development teams java enterprise performance micro focus silktest 2011 nosql for the enterprise enterprise source code – a multi-million dollar under-utilized asset when most people think about a company’s assets, source code doesn’t show up on the list.
view full user profile your company already has the code you need, but you’ll never find it 04.04.2012
- enterprise code search - opinion - scm - open source (note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.) comments boaz lev replied on thu, 2012/04/05 - 4:23am fully agree with this one!
so you’re probably thinking  “gee, i thought that developers could already easily do this,  right?”
your ide won’t solve the problemso you’re probably thinking “gee, i thought that developers could already easily do this, right?”
is google play the beginning of the end for androi...
further, because  up to 80% of the code in apps today can come from open source projects, being  able to extend the search capability to include open source projects that live  outside the organization also becomes important.
ecs  tools can search both internally-indexed code bases and external open source  software repositories.
so while some organizations may have already figured out how to wholesale reuse some of their code, every organization has the opportunity to help their development teams develop new applications faster by providing them greater visibility into existing enterprise code bases.
get an in depth comparison on three different cloud... birt 3.7 report design: eclipse-based bi and big data visualization eclipse business intelligence and reporting tools (birt) is an open source, eclipse-based reporting system that integrates with your java/j2ee... google app engine for java this dzone refcard provides an in depth introduction to the cloud computing technology, google app engine.
to accomplish this, developers would need an easy  way to search for and view an api call within existing code stored in  enterprise code repositories.
yet millions of dollars are spent every year  to create and maintain code, often with little focus on leveraging existing  code assets that are hiding somewhere in your organization.
he has a long history of speaking at large and small developer conferences around the world.
latest articles - spring batch - hello world - how to fix memory leaks in java - is hibernate the best choice?
this is the reality  for most large companies managing hundreds of millions of lines of code -- the  majority of which was purpose-built to solve specific application problems.
log in or join - home - refcardz - microzones - cloud zone - nosql zone - html5 zone - devops zone - solr-lucene - windows phone 7 - .net zone - python zone - zones - agile zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides and tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - links - snippets javalobby did you know?
these tools have pre-built adapters to connect to and  index code from leading scm products, and because they provide read-only  access, can be implemented without impact to the actual scm systems.
yes, they do make tools for that
can you recommend a specific ecs tool?
- login or register to post comments comment viewing options flat list - collapsedflat list - expanded threaded list - collapsedthreaded list - expanded date - newest firstdate - oldest first 10 comments per page30 comments per page50 comments per page 70 comments per page90 comments per page150 comments per page200 comments per page250 comments per page300 comments per page select your preferred way to display the comments and click "save settings" to activate your changes.
code search - yes, they do make tools for thatthere is one type of tool that could help you take better advantage of internal and external code: enterprise code search.
- follow us - rss - google + - facebook - linkedin - twitter — brian kernigan advertising - terms of service - privacy - © 1997-2012, dzone, inc.