one of outcomes of switching jobs is you lose some of your favorite tools.
having done php development full time for many years, zend studio had become my ide of choice.
i'm guessing zend studio preferences have problems with importing to eclipse.
but when you want more control and more advanced stuff i’m pretty sure eclipse is the way to go.
i highly recommend you download and try netbeans.
when things like this happen, i get pissed, and go looking for new tools.
netbeans initial start up screen netbeans is a java application and requires java to run, which is probably already loaded on your computer.
you can have both ide's running at the same time without conflicts.
you'll find several good articles on the web about this, so i won't go into individual features here.
for simple things it is ok, but eclipse outperforms it in nearly everything advanced.
i am a long time user of eclipse and ex netbeans user
by the way, my eclipse helios folder checks in at 390 mb.
since php is now an object-oriented language, like java, netbeans has incorporated php into its editor.
btw netbeans settings preferences compared to intellij is not so good… i agree only that netbeans is more newbie friendly and you don’t have to know much about classpath and compiling/building to produce a working application.
if you don’t want to use vi, use phpstorm.
the netbeans 7.1 download and install was seamless.
colors and fonts are configured in one tab, php in another tab.
that is if you can download it intellij 11 is so awesome, that i have even bought it.
the installer downloads 46.6 mb, which grows to 152.5 mb on install.
the feel you get while developing is also not as bloated and “old car” as you say from my perspective – eclipse is slow, too bloated, and clumsy.
it deserved another look.
not only that, if you set a  preference in one area, it might not be set in another, and may collide with  another preference, sometime throwing errors, or shutting down the  editor.
anyone who has used eclipse understands what a nightmare the eclipse preferences are.
here you can for “format source code” and adapt a lot of stuff
anyone who has used eclipse understands what a nightmare the  eclipse preferences are.
the power of the  internet a new site coming for php – a preview → netbeans 7.1 review posted on january 21, 2012 by dalev one of outcomes of switching jobs is you lose some of your favorite  tools.
one main argument for netbeans against eclipse+pdt: in netbeans you can format the sourcecode (and adapting your coding styles).
by the way… i was netbeans fanatic for a long time then i tried eclipse again
the netbeans icon why would we gradually move?
but both of these are far from “the best ide”.
you have a choice to install netbeans  with just the php bundle, which is what i did, since i do not do a lot of java  work.
it is possible to configure netbeans 7.1.1 with zend server ce?
the hiccup was eclipse balked at some setting i set, and blew away my entire workspace.
in all fairness to eclipse, i'm comparing this to eclipse helios pdt.
i wanted to set up my beloved work environment, back to  open-source.
if you don't like netbeans, you can stay with eclipse, but in the process of using both, i think you'll find yourself gradually moving to netbeans as your ide of choice.
or because netbeans was created with java in mind?
i had used eclipse before zend studio, and so this  was pretty close to home.
afaik eclipse was also designed with java development in mind.
i love open source, and my current choice is netbeans, but i’m constantly searching for better and faster native aps (for linux or windows), which are not slow and clumsy as these two
it takes you quite a bit of time to initially  configure preferences.
netbeans rocks, it has all of php developer needs… and very configurable i feel very much comfortable with netbeans.
since php is now an object-oriented language, like java, netbeans has  incorporated php into its editor.
eclipse is like an old car that you keep fixing up, it's  serviceable and runs good, but every once in a while, you get irritated,  because something doesn't work right.
i'm guessing zend  studio preferences have problems with importing to eclipse.
after a preliminary search showed that netbeans had good reviews, i decided to give it a try.
netbeans seems like a new bmw  sports car.
after a preliminary search showed that netbeans had good reviews,  i decided to give it a try.
i wanted to set up my beloved work environment, back to open-source.
in conclusion, because of problems i've had configuring colors with eclipse, even using theeclipse color theme plugin i wrote about in another post, i find myself using netbeans to write my code.
i have been using both eclipse and netbeans professionally (java), and when i can choose myself its a nobrainer: netbeans!netbeans do the same things as eclipse – but smoother and with all the stuff you need build in out of the box.
and i have to disagree with your arguments.
if your a php  developer, netbeans has integrated support for git, debugging, phpunit testing,  phpdoc, smarty templates, symfony framework, and the zend framework.
colors and fonts  are configured in one tab, php in another tab.
so you don't have to reconfigure then again, you  export your preferences and import them to the new eclipse environments.
eclipse  feels bloated.
netbeans is the best.
each plugin added to eclipse has its own preferences, every section of eclipse has it own preferences.
netbeans fonts and colors preference screen
it deserved  another look.
actually there is a funny alternative: aptana studio whicht is based on eclipse.
the netbeans license is owned by oracle from its acquisition of sun, but it is a free and open source ide.
i thought about good analogies and similes for the two editors.
in conclusion, because of problems i've had configuring colors with  eclipse, even using theeclipse color theme plugin i wrote about in another  post, i find myself using netbeans to write my code.
the installation took about 5 minutes and netbeans came up quickly and easily.
and i’m certain now i won’t switch back to netbeans.
all the menus and functionality, except for  some of the zend studio features, are the same.
i had to  reload everything including re-configuring my preferences.
netbeans initial start up screen netbeans is a java application and requires java to run, which is probably  already loaded on your computer.
eclipse is like an old car that you keep fixing up, it's serviceable and runs good, but every once in a while, you get irritated, because something doesn't work right.
i give you that… for me netbeans is wisely written ide, very intuitive, effective, … i use netbeans for php and the support is awesome.
this seemed a little archaic  to me.
what that means is  setting preferences is a nightmare.
if your a php developer, netbeans has integrated support for git, debugging, phpunit testing, phpdoc, smarty templates, symfony framework, and the zend framework.
if you do a feature by feature analysis of eclipse and netbeans, you'll find that both ide's pretty much have the same features and functionality.
what that means is setting preferences is a nightmare.
i had used eclipse before zend studio, and so this was pretty close to home.
having done php development  full time for many years, zend studio had become my ide of choice.
if both ide's pretty much have the same functionality, what is the difference between the two?
well, it comes down to the feel of the ide as  your using them.
because setting preferences is difficult in eclipse?
not only that, if you set a preference in one area, it might not be set in another, and may collide with another preference, sometime throwing errors, or shutting down the editor.
if your doing java development, netbeans should be your ide of choice, since it was built with java development in mind.
netbeans feels integrated, not like your bringing up a  separate application every time you go to a new area of the ide.
netbeans php preference screen
so you don't have to reconfigure then again, you export your preferences and import them to the new eclipse environments.
in eclipse+pdt i can only change the tab-space (at least i did not find anything else).
but: they do *not* use pdt, they use another plugin (phpedit or so..)
i did an import of my zend studio preferences and then started changing some setting, and i had a hiccup.
you'll find several good articles on the web about this,  so i won't go into individual features here.
you can set all colors and  fonts for all languages at once, not like eclipse.
if your doing java development, netbeans should be your ide of choice,  since it was built with java development in mind.
since zend studio costs money, as a newbie to my new company, i didn't see  a lot of zend studio's installed.
one major weakness in eclipse is setting preferences on how you want the editor to work.
i had tried netbeans before, and found it  wanting for php development, but that was four years ago.
i did an import of my zend studio preferences and then started changing  some setting, and i had a hiccup.
what surprised me was  how far netbeans has come as a php development environment.
for me that was zend studio.
most of the edits were done on a linux server running vim.
if you do a feature by feature analysis of eclipse and netbeans, you'll  find that both ide's pretty much have the same features and
naturally, i downloaded eclipse pdt based on the helios release, on which zend studio is built.
most of  the edits were done on a linux server running vim.
since zend studio costs money, as a newbie to my new company, i didn't see a lot of zend studio's installed.
no… i will certainly not go back to netbeans.
… and pdt seems to have lost the development momentum (i tested it 3 months ago the last time).
well, it comes down to the feel of the ide as your using them.
anyways netbeans is a great tool after all.
setting preferences is straightforward and java development support is great.
i would recommend eclipse  pdt users uninstall helios, download indigo, and add pdt.
i had to reload everything including re-configuring my preferences.
netbeans for php development.
not saying that netbeans can do things that eclipse can’t – the same is true the other way around, but in my experience netbeans just is more intuitive to use.
when i try to download.
when things like this happen, i get pissed, and go looking for new  tools.
the netbeans license is owned by oracle  from its acquisition of sun, but it is a free and open source ide.
you can set all colors and fonts for all languages at once, not like eclipse.
you can have both  ide's running at the same time without conflicts.
the installer downloads  46.6 mb, which grows to 152.5 mb on install.
netbeans seems like a new bmw sports car.
you have a choice to install netbeans with just the php bundle, which is what i did, since i do not do a lot of java work.
pingback: netbeans 7.1 review: "eclipse is like an old... | eclipse | syngu i just started developing in php (coming form microsoft/visual studio) and spent quite a bit of time looking for a php ide.
in fact, i saw few ide's.
eclipse feels bloated.
netbeans main editor window with other windows closed
eclipse + pydev for python (since the python support in netbeans has more ore less been dropped) 2.
it takes you quite a bit of time to initially configure preferences.
if eclipse is a house built with a series of additions,  netbeans is a house built from the ground up by an architect.
all the menus and functionality, except for some of the zend studio features, are the same.
in contrast, netbeans preferences are a pleasure.
i had tried netbeans before, and found it wanting for php development, but that was four years ago.
naturally, i downloaded eclipse pdt based on the helios release, on which  zend studio is built.
http://www.aptana.com/products/studio3 i can not download netbean’s latest version it says “the requested url /netbeans/7.1/final/bundles/netbeans-7.1-ml-linux.sh was not found on this server.”
the hiccup was eclipse balked at some  setting i set, and blew away my entire workspace.
using vi is not archaic, once you know vi.
in the process of configuring eclipse, i, of course, started messing with  preferences.
if both ide's pretty much have the same functionality, what is the  difference between the two?
i would recommend eclipse pdt users uninstall helios, download indigo, and add pdt.
i think you'll  like it  better, if you stay with eclipse.
if eclipse is a house built with a series of additions, netbeans is a house built from the ground up by an architect.
what surprised me was how far netbeans has come as a php development environment.
i think you'll like it better, if you stay with eclipse.
i trialed all the commercial ide’s/editors and so money really wasn’t an issue.
maybe intellij is next step but certanly not netbeans.
netbeans feels integrated, not like your bringing up a separate application every time you go to a new area of the ide.
netbeans is like an editor with a little bit of sophisticated tool calling where eclipse really is an ide.
as far as the php-oops oriented coding is concern i would recommend netbeans as the ide.
netbeans with various windows open
in the process of configuring eclipse, i, of course, started messing with preferences.
by the way, my eclipse  helios folder checks in at 390 mb.
this seemed a little archaic to me.
i downloaded the eclipse indigo 64bit and added the pdt plugin, and i find this version quicker, and much more stable.
if you don't like  netbeans, you can stay with eclipse, but in the process of using both, i think  you'll find yourself gradually moving to netbeans as your ide of choice.
the installation took about 5 minutes and  netbeans came up quickly and easily.
i've had all of this happen.
each plugin added to eclipse has its own preferences,  every section of eclipse has it own preferences.
one major weakness in eclipse is setting preferences on how you want the  editor to work.
it is my prefered php server.
i downloaded the eclipse indigo 64bit and added the pdt plugin, and i find this  version quicker,  and much more stable.
no.. i will certainly not go back to eclipse!