"some people rightly claim ruby or python is better the java for some tasks."
java 5.0 supports  aspect-oriented features.
powerbuilder developer's journal python.sys-con.com redhat.sys-con.com ruby.sys-con.com seo/sem (search) journal silverlight developer's journal saas.sys-con.com sap.sys-con.com soaworld magazine - swm symbian developer's journal virtualization.sys-con.com web 2.0 journal weblogic journal websphere journal wireless business & technology xml journal the world’s leading cloud computing resource! register | log in  .net · ajax · cloud · eclipse · flex · open web · iphone · java · linux · open source · oracle · pbdj · search · silverlight · soa · virtualization · web 2.0 ·
extending sans to the cloud at cloud expo new york
java remains at the top today and for at  least then next few years precisely because the java community has seen and  successfully addressed shortcomings.
anonymous kuhirt wrote "only people admitting that there are  shortcomings and who are willing to look over the (java) fence are able to keep  java from becoming the next cobol)."
i'd like to respond to some of the  comments.
those who will hold strongly to their java in good days and bad, as other stronger more innovative software paradigms come to life, will be left in the dust.
read more & respond » "java is dead, long live  java!"
everything is old news and provide no meaty support for personal opinions.
not because of  technological merits and active development, but because of huge amounts of  code written in the times where people thought about cobol like you think about  java nowadays).
it's so nineties" that casts ajax as one of the reasons for java's supposed decline.
specifically, there was a widely circulated article in business week recently called something like "java?
each offers something better than standalone scripting.
while storage area networks (sans) have become the ubiquitous deployment model for interconnecting data storage systems via high-speed networks such as fibre channel or iscsi, it administrators are now rethinking the traditional san in light of new technologies and economic model...
what java needs is a  better (less memory and faster) implementation of the libraries it has and the  virtual machine to run the programs.
for me its  the sloooowest software i`ve used.
several people take issue with my point that "eclipse is the best ide on the planet".
my discussion of groovy, beanshell, hibernate, spring, hivemind, aspectj, and eclipse do not concern web development.
– the future of java xtracto wrote: i like java (as a language) a lot, i have used it for enterprise  level applications (supply chain management software) and currently i am using  it to make market based simulations.
– the future of java ash wrote: reply to #20: hey  maciej, i faced the very same problem that you had faced(even i had a  athlon1700 +512 mb ram).
if i had to pose one challenge to the java world, it would be to free us developers of some of the limitations of java that don't exist with other languages; i.e. running in a jvm, we get access to such a limited memory space that anyone writing a memory-intensive server application is forced to work in another language - something i've met several times in my work.
ejb 3.0 embodies hibernate.
some people rightly claim ruby or python is better the java for some tasks.
this point is completely nonsense, to be sure, but the nonsense didn't originate from me.
– the future of java disappointed wrote: i think he's a senior engineer with 10 year experience...
many organizations  have embraced, or are considering, the benefits of cloud computing –  speed, flexibility, increased expertise, shared workload, reduced costs, etc.
the benefits are many – but so are the risks.
eclipse is the best ide on the planet, and it appears that eclipse has reached critical mass like ant and junit did, in that people simply expect solutions that extend it.
the "rejoice - we're at the top" feeling (afraid of .net, are we?).
i was happy to see the changes that 1.5 brought along, especially generics since that's been a problem that had been solved far too long ago to leave out of java.
(i am a software engineer and use java most of the time.
the "eclipse is the best ide" opinion.
read more & respond » "java is dead, long live java!"
aspectj is the rolls royce for aop, but spring has lightweight aop themes as does the new jboss.
the java solution was to remove the responsibility of memory  management from the programmer and place it in the jvm.
no matter how great something is, there is no "best ide" the same way as there is no "best language".
only people admitting that there are shortcomings and who are willing to look over the (java) fence are able to keep java from becoming the next cobol).
anonymous kuhirt threw us a barb: "afraid of .net, are we?"
– the future of java donald fraser wrote: i am a java advocate, but i have many gripes with the java language.
read  more & respond » latest cloud developer stories cloud  expo new york: the compliant cloud
only my fourth point and arguably half of part of my second point concern web development.
only my fourth point and arguably  half of part of my second point concern web development.
these projects share a common idea that the framework should stay out of the way of your object model.
– the future of java reader wrote: eclipse the best ide on the planet???
the sort of gripes i have are similar reasons why java evolved out of c/c++ in the first place.
it appears he didn't understand that  this is the theme of the article.
published jan. 10, 2006— reads 98,910 — feedback 21 copyright © 2006 sys-con media, inc. — all rights reserved.
– the future of java disappointed wrote: i think he's a senior engineer with 10 year experience... read more & respond » "java is dead, long live java!"
i think its recieving so much flake not because people disagree generally to the stand points, but because we really so seldom see such a unprofessional article being written.
i don't see much traffic crossing that  divide in either direction.
sometimes you do need to control memory use more than java allows.
#13 disappointed commented on 16 jan 2006 nothing wrong with the article except that it has no stuff just fluff.
click  to add our rss feeds to the service of your choice: view  additional sys-con feeds publish your article!
#8 anonymous kuhirt commented on 14 jan 2006 sorry, this article is just stupid.
development like java 1.5 (mostly syntactic sugar) and popular add-ons to java (techniques / librarie) like aop, hibernate are in fact band-aids, covering shortcoming of java which add up over time, giving java that "crufty" feeling it has.
which parties assume respons...
that's more than php (12675), ruby (425), and .net (3094 c#, 347 vb.net) combined.
finally, some people seem to think that because i'm  pro-java, i advocate it as the one-size fits all language.
java's floating point model is constrained by its portability requirements -- for a while it was even theoretically impossible for a jvm to meet them, iirc -- which unavoidably prevents the use of... read more & respond »
personally i prefer idea, even thought i use eclipse on a day to day basis (more than idea) because its the company standard.
– the future of java anonymous  kuhirt wrote: "java remains at the top today and for at least then next  few years" this is exacly the self-reassurance i was talking about.
anonymous kuhirt wrote "only people admitting that there are shortcomings and who are willing to look over the (java) fence are able to keep java from becoming the next cobol)."
by liz mcmillan three buzzwords that every cio hears but one they should listen to by jeremy hess  ads by google
i've unsubscribed from the jdj for a reason (since they aparently fired all of their proofreaders)!
let's take a view of where java is going to go in the next year or two as these ideas gain traction.
the heavy struts of the past is being replaced with two new directions: struts shale based on jsf and struts ti is a wholesale merge with webwork.
by liz mcmillan big data has become  very popular as what can probably best be described as “loosely  structured large scale data”, i.e., data sets of relatively small files.
not  everything is an object, so you have boxing overheads even in simple things  like containers unless you use generics.
if java is "dead," it's only because it was laid to rest so that a better, lighter, more agile, form of java could replace it, so long live java!
register | sign-in reader feedback: page 1 of 2 #21 ash commented on 17 mar 2008 reply to #20:
if java is slow, grabs lots  of memory and all that it is because of the virtual machine, not because of the  language.
ever tried to run it ?
java is dead, long live java!"
what these technologies have in common is the  mind-boggling simplicity of using them.
read more  & respond » "java is dead, long live java!"
i have  yet to see a fast and slick java application which has nice features and  doesn`t eat my whole ram.
just take a look at the eiffel programming language - it pioneered  the concept of "design by contract" which solves boundary conditions  and assignments to all parameters thus eliminating the null pointer exception  problem along with a number of other problems.
how and why is a flexible it infrastructure the key to the future?
by lori macvittie bmullan wrote: why not also look at other technologies also...?
we also use java in many internal systems and products under development.
some people  think visual studio is king, which is also justifiable.
by brian mccallion write once run anywhere or cross platform mobile development tools by udayan banerjee cloud expo new york: cloud architectures require scale-out storage
it appears he didn't understand that this is the theme of the article.
click to add our rss feeds to the service of your choice: view additional sys-con feeds publish your article!
while storage area networks  (sans) have become the ubiquitous deployment model for interconnecting data  storage systems via high-speed networks such as fibre channel or iscsi, it  administrators are now rethinking the traditional san in light of new  technologies and economic model...
several people take issue with my point that "eclipse  is the best ide on the planet".
finally, some people seem to think that because i'm pro-java, i advocate it as the one-size fits all language.
eclipse is a ram guzzler for sure, but its necessity undermines  everything else.
if you want to write about the future  of java you should look at the new features and where they are going with it.
maintain your job security and adapt.
to the commenters, don't call "long live java" as if you could predict the new languages and technologies on the horizon.
personally i prefer idea, even thought i use eclipse on a  day to day basis (more than idea) because its the company standard.
groovlets should make for some rapid servlet solutions.
what are the threats to cloud security?
gigaom pro is your one-stop shop for great technology market rese...
a language is just a bnf diagram specification which describes the syntax of the program, and all of its reserved words.
ejb3 takes the same view.
however, i can easily name you tasks where java would be  far from a good choice - especially if you step out of this year's hype word  collection (ajax, spring, etc.):... read more & respond » "java is dead, long live java!"
– the future of java anonymous brave guy wrote: java has theoretical limitations that mean it will always have difficulty keeping up with a well-optimised c++ program.
– the future of java disappointed wrote: nothing wrong with the article except that it has no stuff just fluff.
it totally takes away the credibility of the whole article (even though the article is not related).
long live the next best platform.
if java is slow, grabs lots of memory and all that it is because of the virtual machine, not because of the language.
he has designed and developed enterprise systems for over 10 years.
its great, but i  wouldn't say best.
– the future of java hal arnold wrote: nice article; but one niggling point: your assertion that eclipse "is the best ide on the planet".
reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written  permission of sys-con publications, inc. is prohibited.
reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of sys-con publications, inc. is prohibited.
he also wrote "ajax is *not* a technology, it's a technique, and one, at that, which works very nicely with java as the server element."
in order to post a comment you need to be registered and logged in.
| coldfusion developer's journal - cfdj   | eclipse developer's journal - edj   | enterprise open source magazine - eos open web developer's journal - openweb    | iphone developer's journal - iphone   | virtualization - virtualization   | java developer's journal - jdj   | linux.sys-con.com powerbuilder  developer's journal - pbdj   | seo / sem  journal - sj   | soaworld magazine - soawm   | it solutions guide - itsg   | symbian developer's journal -  sdj weblogic developer's journal - wldj   | websphere journal - wj   | wireless business & technology - wbt   | xml-journal - xmlj   | internet video - itv flex developer's journal - flex   | ajaxworld magazine - awm   | silverlight developer's journal - sldj   | php.sys-con.com | web 2.0 journal - web2 apache | cms | crm | hp | oracle journal | perl | python | red hat | ruby on  rails | sap | saas sys-con media:   about us    |   contact us   |   company news    |   careers   |   site map sys-con events:   |  ajaxworld conference & expo   |  iphone developer summit  |  openweb developer  summit  |  soa world conference & expo  |   virtualization conference & expo international sites:   india   |  u.k.  |  canada  |  germany  |   france  |  australia  |  italy  |  spain  |  netherlands  |  brazil  |  belgium terms of use & our privacy statement     about  newsfeeds / video feeds copyright ©1994-2008 sys-con publications,  inc.
other technologies like ruby, php, .net, or ajax might get more hype and acclaim lately, but hype aside, java still produces the majority of innovation in the software profession.
|   webcast   |   education   |   research .net
breaking cloud computing news research and markets: the information  technology service market in india to grow at a cagr of 18.7 percent over the  period 2010-2014 says report research and markets(mar. 7, 2012 06:30 am est more  » advertise   |   magazine  subscriptions   |   free breaking-newsletters!
jump to a sys-con magazine .net
anybody who is seriously thinking that there is only one true way for every problem on the planet can't be taken serious and should stop littering websites with his wishfull thinking ..
201 802-3021  sys-con featured whitepapers most read this week three tips to successfully load test adobe flex applications by christophe marton cloud expo new york speaker profile: dave asprey – trend micro by jeremy geelan big data in telecom: the need for analytics by bob hockman graal, a dynamic java compiler in the works by hari gottipati cloud expo new york speaker profile: mårten mickos – eucalyptus systems by jeremy geelan big data gold mine in cloud governance and automation
– the future of java anonymous  kuhirt wrote: sorry, this article is just stupid.
i see such non-sense "xy is the best" comments as the  self-reassurance of blind followers of xy and most of the time it is a sure  sign that xy's best days lay in the past.
&lt;a  href='http://banners.sys-con.com/phpadsnew-2.0/adclick.php?n=a169dfa7'  target='_blank'&gt;&lt;img  src='http://banners.sys-con.com/phpadsnew-2.0/adview.php?what=zone:294&amp;amp;n=a169dfa7'  border='0' alt=''&gt;&lt;/a&gt; close this window
| webcast | education | research .net
i  think its recieving so much flake not because people disagree generally to the  stand points, but because we really so seldom see such a unprofessional article  being written.
the entire article focused primarily on web development and minor advances in the development experience.
well, the rest of us are just quietly coding on a platform that is more exciting than ever.
code 42 software to exhibit at cloud expo 2012 new york
by: bryan w. taylor jan. 10, 2006 03:45
in fact, my first point about groovy and beanshell filling a gap pretty much guarantees that i don'... read more & respond »
advertise on this site!
– the future of java xtracto wrote: i like java (as a language) a lot, i have used it for enterprise level applications (supply chain management software) and currently i am using it to make market based simulations.
for two primary reasons: (a) vendor lock-in and  (b) security.
those of us that use idea would beg to differ.
sys-con.tv: soa power panel live from times square sys-con.tv  cloud expo & virtualization 2009 east platinum sponsors: ibm smarter business solutions through dynamic infrastructure ibm smarter insights: how the cio becomes a hero again microsoft windows azure gold sponsors:
#19 hal arnold commented on 6 feb 2006 nice article; but one niggling point: your assertion that eclipse "is the best ide on the planet".
in fact, my first point about groovy and beanshell filling a gap pretty much guarantees that i don't think programming is a one size fits all task.
there are many other  things that java improved on in the c/c++ language but there are many more  things that the language still lacks.
the wrong thing about java is the virtual machine implementation.
in his session at the 10th international cloud expo, tom leyden, director of alliances and marketing at amplidata, will e... gigaom pro named “media sponsor” of cloud expo 2012 new york
i don't wanna get into a fanatic religious war on ides, but i'm just annoyed by unsupported claims.
– the future of java anonymous architect  wrote: the most naive article ever!
– the future of java donald fraser wrote: i  am a java advocate, but i have many gripes with the java language.
setting aside semantic bickering over the difference between a technology and a technique, i agree and said nothing to the contrary.
for example why can i still get null  pointer exceptions?
mr. frustrated with the writer wrote
i have yet to see a fast and slick java application which has nice features and doesn`t eat my whole ram.
mr. frustrated with the writer commented on 13 jan 2006
all of the big development technologies and techniques that  have become part of the java world (hibernate, spring) have been ported quickly  to other languages, leveling the court as far as language-supporting  technologies are concerned.
by elizabeth white sys-con events announced today that code 42 software, a provider of onsite, offsite and cloud backup solutions, will exhibit at sys-con's 10th international cloud expo, which will take place on june 11–14, 2012, at the javits center in new york city, new york.
developer's journal - .netdj | coldfusion developer's journal - cfdj | eclipse developer's journal - edj | enterprise open source magazine - eos open web developer's journal - openweb | iphone developer's journal - iphone | virtualization - virtualization | java developer's journal - jdj | linux.sys-con.com powerbuilder developer's journal - pbdj | seo / sem journal - sj | soaworld magazine - soawm | it solutions guide - itsg | symbian developer's journal - sdj weblogic developer's journal - wldj | websphere journal - wj | wireless business & technology - wbt | xml-journal - xmlj | internet video - itv flex developer's journal - flex | ajaxworld magazine - awm | silverlight developer's journal - sldj | php.sys-con.com | web 2.0 journal - web2 apache | cms | crm | hp | oracle journal | perl | python | red hat | ruby on rails | sap | saas sys-con media:
j2ee-style ejbs are out.
the wrong thing about java is the virtual  machine implementation.
by pat romanski sys-con events announced today that gigaom pro has been named “media sponsor” of sys-con's 10th international cloud expo, which will take place on june 11–14, 2012, at the javits center in new york city, new york.
spice x2go nomachine's nx ltsp feb. 26, 2012 09:06 am est read more & respond » cloud expo on google news  did you read today's front page stories & breaking news?
aop will unclutter your code by moving "cross-cutting" concerns like logging and security to transparent method interceptors.
but choosing c without specific evidence that you need the extra performance is simply a form of premature optimization.
breaking cloud computing news research and markets: the information technology service market in india to grow at a cagr of 18.7 percent over the period 2010-2014 says report research and markets(mar.
you can get a sense of java's health by simply looking at how many projects are out there using java.
i see such non-sense "xy is the best" comments as the self-reassurance of blind followers of xy and most of the time it is a sure sign that xy's best days lay in the past.
it seems that lately lots of writers have been bashing java.
if you want to write about the future of java you should look at the new features and where they are going with it.
you'll find that java is by no means the end of all and that far from all shortcomings has been addressed successfully.
i was happy to see the changes that 1.5 brought  along, especially generics since that's been a problem that had been solved far  too long ago to leave out of java.
not everything is an object, so you have boxing overheads even in simple things like containers unless you use generics.
– the future of java anonymous brave guy wrote: java has  theoretical limitations that mean it will always have difficulty keeping up  with a well-optimised c++ program.
click for 2008 west event webcasts from the blogosphere "java is dead, long live java!"
syndicated stories and blog feeds, all rights reserved by the author.
jsf replaces struts and facelets replace tapestry and other frameworks with a standard.
c is great for performance critical tasks, and java plays along with c via jni as eclipse's swt proves.
#12 anonymous architect commented on 16 jan 2006
it  totally takes away the credibility of the whole article (even though the  article is not related).
this problem can actually be solved by the language.
cloud expo new york:
because of its prominence, java gets a lot of attention and with it much criticism, some of it valid.
however, i can easily name you tasks where java would be far from a good choice - especially if you step out of this year's hype word collection (ajax, spring, etc.):
– the future of java jman wrote: do jdj publish college  kid articles these days?
read more & respond » latest cloud developer stories cloud expo new york: the compliant cloud
contact advertising(at)sys-con.com!
about us | contact us | company news | careers | site map sys-con events: | ajaxworld conference & expo | iphone developer summit | openweb developer summit | soa world conference & expo | virtualization conference & expo international sites: india | u.k. | canada | germany | france | australia | italy | spain | netherlands | brazil | belgium terms of use & our privacy statement about newsfeeds / video feeds copyright ©1994-2008 sys-con publications, inc.
as someone else said once (i forgot the name): "if your only tool is a hammer, every problem looks like a nail."
it would be hard for me to argue against c being the right tool for some tasks, since java and my os are all written in it.
related stories ▪ i-technology viewpoint: java's not evolving fast enough ▪ calvin austin's java blog: "go geronimo go!"
#11 reader commented on 16 jan 2006 eclipse the best ide on the planet???
if nothing else, this would suggest that critic's complaint that innovation has left the language is true!
201 802-3021 &lt;a  href='http://banners.sys-con.com/openx/www/delivery/ck.php?n=a512f165&amp;amp;cb=insert_random_number_here'  target='_blank'&gt;&lt;img  src='http://banners.sys-con.com/openx/www/delivery/avw.php?zoneid=410&amp;amp;cb=
for example memory not being released from objects after they have gone out of scope.
by liz mcmillan big data has become very popular as what can probably best be described as “loosely structured large scale data”, i.e., data sets of relatively small files.
but  netbeans 5.0 make me feel more comfortable when working with java.
however, being at the "top" does lead only one way: down (btw: there are areas where cobol is still at the "top", too.
groovy and beanshell solve these same problems and will become a standard (in the jsr sense) part of the java stack.
a language is just a bnf diagram specification which describes the  syntax of the program, and all of its reserved words.
the refactoring and debugging support are top notch.
java's  floating point model is constrained by its portability requirements -- for a  while it was even theoretically impossible for a jvm to meet them, iirc --  which unavoidably prevents the use of... read more & respond »
jsf replaces struts and facelets replace tapestry and  other frameworks with a standard.
no one who objected had any rebutal to the  reason i gave why eclipse is the best: it has reached critical mass as an open  source extensible platform whose community is assuring that all important tools  work with it.
i don't wanna get into  a fanatic religious war on ides, but i'm just annoyed by unsupported claims.
large parts of popular google products are written in java.
he also wrote "ajax is *not* a technology, it's a technique, and one, a... read more & respond »
no matter how great something is, there is no  "best ide" the same way as there is no "best language".
– the future of java lightweight frameworks like hibernate, spring, and hivemind are the future of java
no one who objected had any rebutal to the reason i gave why eclipse is the best: it has reached critical mass as an open source extensible platform whose community is assuring that all important tools work with it.
as someone else said once (i forgot the name): "if your  only tool is a hammer, every problem looks like a nail."
java 5.0 supports aspect-oriented features.
the future of java is ejb 3.0 and java 5.0 with facelets and jsf.
#16 bryan taylor commented on 23 jan 2006 more responses from the author...
– the future of java maciej grela wrote: hmm,  eclipse is the best.
developer's journal -  .netdj
by brian mccallion cloud expo new york speaker profile: bernard golden – hyperstratus by jeremy geelan are you your own worst enemy?
those generics have only just been  introduced into the language, and are a poor imitation of c++ templates,  offering few of the advantages that template metaprogramming has been providing  to serious, high performance libraries in c++ for a few years now.
of course, i never said that.
| sys-con.tv | blog-n-play!
"java is dead, long live java!"
both integrate into a truly mixed environment with compiled bytecode and interpreted scripts interoperating smoothly.
in fact, my first point about groovy and beanshell filling a gap  pretty much guarantees that i don'... read more & respond »
#20 maciej grela commented on 8 feb 2006 hmm, eclipse is the best.
if nothing else,  this would suggest that critic's complaint that innovation has left the  language is true!
anonymous kuhirt threw us a barb: "afraid of .net, are  we?"
but after upgraded my ram to 1 gb, eclipse runs smoothly.
i'd like to respond to some of the comments.
wireless · xml comments doing vdi, only better
and last but not least - if you only know and care about java (with that elitistic feeling of "oh, but we are at the top"), you'll be condemned to re-invent solutions / techniques which have been here long before .. #9 bryan taylor commented on 14 jan 2006 as the author...
java remains at the top today and for at least then next few years precisely because the java community has seen and successfully addressed shortcomings.
mr. frustrated with the writer wrote "the entire article focused primarily on web development and minor advances in the development experience."
its great, but i wouldn't say best.
java doesn't have value types, so everything's dynamically allocated by default.
eclipse's team coding capabilities for cvs and subversion (via the subclipse plugin) are first-rate.
– the future of java li moore wrote: google makes extensive use of the java platform.
for example memory not being released from objects after they have gone  out of scope.
– the future of java rick o'shay wrote: classic jdj  article: a misinformed pile of google scrapings that appears to have been  stitched together at the last minute.
and of course, there are still the same  fundamental weaknesses in java's design that there always have been...
and of course, there are still the same fundamental weaknesses in java's design that there always have been...
– the future of java hal arnold  wrote: nice article; but one niggling point: your assertion that eclipse  "is the best ide on the planet".
however, i can easily name you tasks where java would be far from a good choice - especially if you step out of this year's hype word collection (ajax, spring, etc.):... read more & respond » "java is dead, long live java!"
those of us that use idea would beg  to differ.
7, 2012 06:30 am est more » advertise | magazine subscriptions | free breaking-newsletters!
#18 rick o'shay commented on 4 feb 2006 classic jdj article: a misinformed pile of google scrapings that appears to have been stitched together at the last minute.
– the future of java bryan taylor wrote: more responses from the author...
just take a look at the eiffel programming language - it pioneered the concept of "design by contract" which solves boundary conditions and assignments to all parameters thus eliminating the null pointer exception problem along with a number of other problems.
– the future of java maciej grela wrote: hmm, eclipse is the best.
read more & respond » "java is dead, long  live java!"
starting out as a ... more » subscribe to the world's most powerful newsletters subscribe to our rss feeds & get your sys-con news live!
the sort of  gripes i have are similar reasons why java evolved out of c/c++ in the first  place.
i don't see much traffic crossing that divide in either direction.
by brian mccallion write  once run anywhere or cross platform mobile development tools by udayan  banerjee cloud expo new york: cloud architectures require scale-out storage
"java  is dead, long live java!"
fourth, the php crowd had a legitimate gripe that banging out a simple web page took too much work if you were using jsp and struts.
a third major innovation where java leads is aspect-oriented programming (aop).
beanshell's syntax offers as little surprise as possible for the java developer and groovy gives a ruby-like syntactic efficiency, but can also be compiled to pure bytecode and reused seamlessly, a big improvement over jruby or jython.
if i had to pose one challenge to the java world, it would be to free us developers of some of the limitations of java that don't exist with other languages; i.e. running in a jvm, we get access to such a lim... read more & respond » "java is dead, long live java!"
– the future of java rick o'shay wrote: classic  jdj article: a misinformed pile of google scrapings that appears to have been  stitched together at the last minute.
– the future of java li moore wrote: google makes extensive use of  the java platform.
by elizabeth  white sys-con events announced today that code 42 software, a provider of  onsite, offsite and cloud backup solutions, will exhibit at sys-con's 10th  international cloud expo, which will take place on june 11–14, 2012, at  the javits center in new york city, new york.
– the future of java jman wrote: do jdj publish college kid articles these days?
extending sans to the  cloud at cloud expo new york
but as far as breakthroughs are concerned, i'm with the critics on this one.
insert_random_number_here&amp;amp;n=a512f165'  border='0' alt='' /&gt;&lt;/a&gt; sys-con featured whitepapers most read this week  three tips to successfully load test adobe flex applications by  christophe marton cloud expo new york speaker profile: dave asprey –  trend micro by jeremy geelan big data in telecom: the need for  analytics by bob hockman graal, a dynamic java compiler in the works by hari gottipati cloud expo new york speaker profile: mårten  mickos – eucalyptus systems by jeremy geelan big data gold  mine in cloud governance and automation
– the future of java bryan taylor wrote: as the author...
what these technologies have in common is the mind-boggling simplicity of using them.
(i am a software engineer and use java most of  the time.
finally, java's traditional strength in the tools arena just keeps increasing.
– the future of java pcdinh wrote: eclipse is a very good universal ide.
as an example, almost everyone who has used c# or any other .net program can see the applications run quite fast.
– the future of java mr.  frustrated with the writer wrote: the entire article focused primarily on web  development and minor advances in the development experience.
but our templating solutions like velocity, freemarker, and now groovy don't make you choose between ultralight text generation and powerful mid-tier solutions.
eclipse is a ram guzzler for sure, but its necessity undermines everything else.
cloud expo new york: best practices  for big unstructured data storage
how abo... read more &  respond » "java is dead, long live java!"
"java is dead, long  live java!"
all of the big development technologies and techniques that have become part of the java world (hibernate, spring) have been ported quickly to other languages, leveling the court as far as language-supporting technologies are concerned.
read more & respond » "java is dead,  long live java!"
the future of java is ejb 3.0 and java  5.0 with facelets and jsf.
all marks are trademarks of sys-con media.
second, the days of heavyweight frameworks are gone.
in his session at the 10th international cloud expo, tom leyden, director of  alliances and marketing at amplidata, will e... gigaom pro named  “media sponsor” of cloud expo 2012 new york
the entire article focused primarily on web development and minor  advances in the development experience."
by hollis tibbetts what motivates open standards in the cloud?
he also wrote "ajax is *not* a technology, it's a  technique, and one, a... read more & respond »
by brian mccallion cloud  expo new york speaker profile: bernard golden – hyperstratus by  jeremy geelan are you your own worst enemy?
this problem can actually be solved by the  language.
for those people who really like php, keep it: java 1.6 makes it the reference implementation for the new web scripting language bindings, so you can do your web views in php and use java for model and controller.
– the future of java anonymous kuhirt wrote: "java remains at the top today and for at least then next few years" this is exacly the self-reassurance i was talking about.
for example why can i still get null pointer exceptions?
likewise if everything you know and care about is java, you have to treat every task within the limits of java.
however, being at the "top" does lead only one way: down (btw: there  are areas where cobol is still at the "top", too.
#10 anonymous kuhirt commented on 15 jan 2006 "java remains at the top today and for at least then next few years" this is exacly the self-reassurance i was talking about.
but as far as breakthroughs are concerned,  i'm with the critics on this one.
not because of technological merits and active development, but because of huge amounts of code written in the times where people thought about cobol like you think about java nowadays).
what are the threats to  cloud security?
– the future of java ash wrote: reply to #20: hey maciej, i faced the very same problem that you had faced(even i had a athlon1700 +512 mb ram).
– the  future of java pcdinh wrote: eclipse is a very good universal ide.
what java needs is a better (less memory and faster) implementation of the libraries it has and the virtual machine to run the programs.
e. g. the "eclipse is  the best ide" opinion.
as an example, almost everyone who has  used c# or any other .net program can see the applications run quite fast.
and i have an athlon1700 + 512 mb.
those generics have only just been introduced into the language, and are a poor imitation of c++ templates, offering few of the advantages that template metaprogramming has been providing to serious, high performance libraries in c++ for a few years now.
but netbeans 5.0 make me feel more comfortable when working with java.
– the future of java bryan taylor wrote: more responses  from the author...
likewise if  everything you know and care about is java, you have to treat every task within  the limits of java.
only people admitting that there are  shortcomings and who are willing to look over the (java) fence are able to keep  java from becoming the next cobol).
hey maciej, i faced the very same problem that you had faced(even i had a athlon1700 +512 mb ram).
the java community has embraced open standards and open source, and microsoft simply doesn't offer that.
– the future of java mr. frustrated with the writer wrote: the entire article focused primarily on web development and minor advances in the development experience.
in most enterprise settings, where time to market and long term maintainability drive the economics, it is an very wrong choice.
best practices for big unstructured data storage
there are many other things that java improved on in the c/c++ language but there are many more things that the language still lacks.
please send it to editorial(at)sys-con.com!
the only reference to ajax my the article concerns other commentators who over-hype ajax in java bashing articles.
for two primary reasons: (a) vendor lock-in and (b) security.
what many may not realize is that some big breakthroughs have arrived and that the java development landscape is solving important problems.
you can blame sun for that.
e. g. the "eclipse is the best ide" opinion.
|   sys-con.tv   |   blog-n-play!
– the future of java rick o'shay wrote: classic jdj article: a misinformed pile of google scrapings that appears to have been stitched together at the last minute.
some people think visual studio is king, which is also justifiable.
of course, i never  said that.
the most naive article ever!
some people seem to think that java has stagnated, and that the "hyper-enthusiasts" have left.
ca maximizing the business value of virtualization in enterprise and cloud computing environments exacttarget messaging in the cloud - email, sms and voice freedom oss stairway to the cloud sun sun's incubation platform: helping startups serve the enterprise power panels: cloud computing & enterprise it: cost & operational benefits
#15 disappointed commented on 16 jan 2006 i think he's a senior engineer with 10 year experience... #14 jman commented on 16 jan 2006 do jdj publish college kid articles these days?
the java solution was to remove the responsibility of memory management from the programmer and place it in the jvm.
read more & respond »
read  more & respond »
by pat romanski  sys-con events announced today that gigaom pro has been named “media  sponsor” of sys-con's 10th international cloud expo, which will take  place on june 11–14, 2012, at the javits center in new york city, new  york.
how abo... read more & respond » "java is dead, long live java!"
about bryan w. taylor bryan taylor is a senior software engineer at rackspace managed hosting based in san antonio, texas.
by liz mcmillan three buzzwords that every cio hears but one they  should listen to by jeremy hess &lt;a  href='http://banners.sys-con.com/openx/www/delivery/ck.php?n=a393f0d0&amp;amp;cb=insert_random_number_here'  target='_blank'&gt;&lt;img  src='http://banners.sys-con.com/openx/www/delivery/avw.php?zoneid=39&amp;amp;cb=insert_random_number_here&amp;amp;n=a393f0d0'  border='0' alt='' /&gt;&lt;/a&gt; ads by google &lt;a  href='http://banners.sys-con.com/openx/www/delivery/ck.php?n=a1e7cfb3&amp;amp;cb=insert_random_number_here'  target='_blank'&gt;&lt;img  src='http://banners.sys-con.com/openx/www/delivery/avw.php?zoneid=38&amp;amp;cb=insert_random_number_here&amp;amp;n=a1e7cfb3'  border='0' alt='' /&gt;&lt;/a&gt;
if i had to pose one challenge to the java  world, it would be to free us developers of some of the limitations of java  that don't exist with other languages; i.e. running in a jvm, we get access to  such a lim... read more & respond » "java is dead,  long live java!"
but after upgraded my ram to 1 gb, eclipse runs  smoothly.
now, the lightweight frameworks like hibernate, spring, and hivemind are the future of java.
my discussion of  groovy, beanshell, hibernate, spring, hivemind, aspectj, and eclipse do not  concern web development.
java  doesn't have value types, so everything's dynamically allocated by default.
for me its the sloooowest software i`ve used.
the first big arena of innovation is the addition of scripting support.
so perhaps the hyper-enthusiasts have left and the buzzword mongers will proclaim that java is dead.
the java community has embraced open standards and open source,  and microsoft simply doesn't offer that.
developer's journal apache.sys-con.com ajaxworld magazine - awm cloud computing journal cms.sys-con.com coldfusion developer's journal crm.sys-con.com eclipse developer's journal enterprise open source magazine flex developer's journal - flex hp.sys-con.com internet video - itv iphone developer's journal - iphone it solutions guide java developer's journal linux.sys-con.com open web developer's journal oracle.sys-con.com perl.sys-con.com
i`d say s/best/beast/ .
in all, though, what bothered me the most was the actual words of the article.
the  "rejoice - we're at the top" feeling (afraid of .net, are we?).
many organizations have embraced, or are considering, the benefits of cloud computing – speed, flexibility, increased expertise, shared workload, reduced costs, etc.
#17 rick o'shay commented on 4 feb 2006 classic jdj article: a misinformed pile of google scrapings that appears to have been stitched together at the last minute.
anyway, you'll find 17300+ java projects, the most of any language.
integration of standard tools like ant, compilers, junit, and javadocs are about as good as you can imagine.
anybody who is seriously thinking that there is only one true way for every  problem on the planet can't be taken serious and should stop littering websites  with his wishfull thinking ..
pop on over to sourceforge and look at the number of projects by language: http://sourceforge.net/softwaremap/trove_list.php?form_cat=160.
the same goes when i touted php interoperability.
– the future of java anonymous architect wrote: the most naive article ever!
certainly sourceforge is not the final measure, but it's a reasonable reality check.
ajax is *not* a technology, it's a technique, and one, at that, which works very nicely with java as the server element.
– the future of java disappointed  wrote: nothing wrong with the article except that it has no stuff just fluff.
feedback pages: your feedback "java is dead, long live java!"
– the future of java anonymous kuhirt wrote: sorry, this article is just stupid.