java.sun.com has a nice bundle of netbeans with the jdk.
it gets more  favorable reviews by everyone who has used it than any other ide.
- bluej (www.bluej.org) -
printer friendly page send to a friend ..
has full set of  plugins, eg to indent the source and compile.www.jedit.org.
i haven't taken a look at this  relatively new offering, and at $50, i probably will wait to hear what others  say first.
why aren't they used more in an educational setting?
a number of students have used this.
custom search home code examples java forum all java tips books submit news, code... search...
environment (tab) then choose "j2sdk(1.5) (prefer jdk compiler)", and click theuse button, then ok.
copyleft fred swartz mit license - jedit - free, open-source, and good.
these offer far more than is  required by the student java programmer, and may be a barrier to learning java  because there is a lot to learn about how to use them.
studio may be good, but they have never provided good java support.
seenetbeans ide for more information.
assigning the return value of new by reference is deprecated - warning line 161: cannot modify header information - headers already sent by (output started at /var/www/vhosts/javafaq.nu/httpdocs/includes/db/db.php:265)
it is huge collection of big and small java programming articles and tips.
studio  may be good, but they have never provided good java support.
search here again if you need more info!
this is a good choice for students because of the good gui form editor and the editing and debugging facilities..
bluej (www.bluej.org) - used in some intro courses, but programs use a  non-standard interface and it doesn't produce real java programs.
search the javafaq.nu 1000 java tips ebook
it gets more favorable reviews by everyone who has used it than any other ide.
please take your copy here.
not all have  been updated to java 5 the last time i looked, so check before downloading.
jedit free, open-source, and good.
- jgrasp - many like it.
half-strength ides these are simpler to use for small projects, but typically don't have nearly as many features, eg, no graphical user interface editor.
once you know how to do everything on your own, it's easier to understand and use these systems.
used in some intro courses, but programs use a non-standard interface and it doesn't produce real java programs.
has brace matching feature.
others jcreator (www.jcreator.com) - free and "pro" versions.
url:  www.jgrasp.org.
version 4.0 (java 5 (1.5)) is better than  version 3.6 (java 1.4), but it  has a bug that prevents it from reading console input.
if you don't install the bundle, you must install the jdk first.
has full set of plugins, eg to indent the source and compile.www.jedit.org.
good, but doesn't indent program.
java 5 seems to be suported in  recent beta versions.drjava.org.
other parts of their visual .net
eclipse ibm's free eclipse ide,  www.eclipse.org, is popular, and is the first  choice of many professionals.
there is a  $99 academic price.
- don't use microsoft's visual j++.
not updated to java 5 as of 2004-12-12.
it supports the non-standard swt gui library.
java 5 seems to be suported in recent beta versions.drjava.org.
if your programs are gui  based, and/or need java 5 features, use netbeans 4.0.
idea is reportedly excellent, but expensive.
- textpad - good, but doesn't indent program.
to enable java 5 features, start with the compiler menu: compiler >
full-strength ides these provide extensive programming support for editing, building gui  interfaces, project management, debugging, etc.
the control structure diagramming is nice.
it is huge collection of  big and small java programming articles and tips.
to enable java 5 features, start with the compiler menu: url: www.jgrasp.org.
take your copy of free "java technology screensaver"!.
this is my favorite editor.
pay, but can continue to use trial version with nags.
java installation, tunning, options... one of the most efficient ways to produce programs is to use an ide (integrated development environment).
probably the main reason is that it takes time to learn  the tool, time that instructors feel is not central to learning programming.
java: ides javafaq home » java installation, tunning, options... one of the most efficient ways to produce programs is to use an ide  (integrated development environment).
drjava a popular, simple, free development system.
pay, but  can continue to use trial version with nags.
these offer far more than is required by the student java programmer, and may be a barrier to learning java because there is a lot to learn about how to use them.
don't use microsoft's visual j++.
gel, free from  www.gexperts.com is another possible student-level ide.
- gel, free from www.gexperts.com is another possible student-level ide.
free "1000 java tips" ebook is here!
also, steer clear of symantec's visual cafe for java, which is generally given poor reviews.
the comments are property of their posters, all the rest 1999-2006 by java faqs daily tips.
there are other ides, but most of these aren't suitable for student  programs.
javabeginner from  www.javatoolsoft.com.
it enforces indentation and  allows immediate evaluation of expressions.
full-strength ides these provide extensive programming support for editing, building gui interfaces, project management, debugging, etc.
why aren't they used more in an  educational setting?
this  is a good choice for students because of the good gui form editor and the  editing and debugging facilities..
if the java sdk is installed  first, textpad will allow compilation of java programs from the editor.
environment (tab) then choose "j2sdk(1.5) (prefer jdk  compiler)", and click theuse button, then ok.
- intellij idea is reportedly excellent, but expensive.
not all have been updated to java 5 the last time i looked, so check before downloading.
- jbuilder - borland's jbuilder ( www.borland.com) is good and the jbuilder 2005 foundation edition seems to be free.
- codeguide (www.omnicore.com - $49 student price, free trial, java 5.
a number  of students have used this.
if the java sdk is installed first, textpad will allow compilation of java programs from the editor.
offshore software tech doodling rss feed java faq news rss feed java forums all logos and trademarks in this site are property of their respective owner.
- netbeans - a free, open-source, ide is available from sun at www.netbeans.org.
it enforces indentation and allows immediate evaluation of expressions.
interactive software released under gnu gpl, code credits, privacy policy includes/db/db.php includes/cmsinit.inc - line 265:
if your programs are gui based, and/or need java 5 features, use netbeans 4.0.
compiler > compiler settings > workspace > compiler (tab) >
and many more... some programming editors will compile java by linking to sun's jdk.
also, steer clear  of symantec's visual cafe for java, which is generally given poor reviews.
- others - - jcreator (www.jcreator.com) - free and "pro" versions.
- javabeginner from www.javatoolsoft.com.
editors that run javac some programming editors will compile java by linking to sun's jdk.
- eclipse - ibm's free eclipse ide, www.eclipse.org, is popular, and is the first choice of many professionals.
jbuilder borland's jbuilder ( www.borland.com) is good and the jbuilder 2005
they also hide details that may be important to learn about.
there is a $99 academic price.
codeguide (www.omnicore.com - $49 student price, free trial, java 5.
once you know how  to do everything on your own, it's easier to understand and use these systems.
compiler settings > workspace > compiler (tab) >
foundation edition seems to be free.
probably the main reason is that it takes time to learn the tool, time that instructors feel is not central to learning programming.
- drjava - a popular, simple, free development system.
netbeans a free, open-source, ide is available from sun at www.netbeans.org.
java: ides javafaq home »
not updated to java 5 as of 2005-01-20.
copyleft fred swartz  mit license printer friendly page
- others - there are other ides, but most of these aren't suitable for student programs.
half-strength ides these are simpler to use for small projects, but typically don't have  nearly as many features, eg, no graphical user interface editor.
deprecated: function ereg() is deprecated in /var/www/vhosts/javafaq.nu/httpdocs/includes/db/db.php on line 265 notice: undefined offset: 8192 in /var/www/vhosts/javafaq.nu/httpdocs/includes/db/db.php on line 265 deprecated: function ereg() is deprecated in /var/www/vhosts/javafaq.nu/httpdocs/includes/classes/cpg_debugger.php on line 105 java: ides easy to learn java: programming articles, examples and tips start with java in a few days with java lessons or lectures home code examples java tools more java tools! java forum all java tips books submit news search... search the javafaq.nu 1000 java tips ebook free "1000 java tips" ebook is here!
i haven't taken a look at this relatively new offering, and at $50, i probably will wait to hear what others say first.
if you don't install  the bundle, you must install the jdk first.
version 4.0 (java 5 (1.5)) is better than version 3.6 (java 1.4), but it has a bug that prevents it from reading console input.