so what is new within scala ide v2.0 for eclipse?
the team listened avidly to user feedback; most demanding faster  compilation, better debugging and better integration with established java  tools like maven and the team have made tough decision in hope of  appeasing most.
project builder with dependency tracking - the sbt engine  tracks dependencies between source files therefore only builds the sources that  need to be built, leaving irrelevant builds behind.
- java review of the year 2011 - the rise of the community - yammer clear up its stance on scala - maven myths explained what do you think?
- jump to content (press enter).
the team listened avidly to user feedback; most demanding faster compilation, better debugging and better integration with established java tools like maven and the team have made tough decision in hope of appeasing most.
- definition hyperlinking - simply ctrl-click on an identifier to navigate to its definition, meaning you don't have to remember in what source file a definition lies in.
ide 7.1.1 is here, quick to support … - eclipse polarsys interview series - thales' benoit … - eclipse browser-based ide eclipse orion gets 0.4 … finally, scala ide is enterprise ready scala ide v2.0 for eclipse released after nine months of hard grafting, the scala ide team are proud to announce that their second major release of the scala plugin for the eclipse environment is now complete and readily available.
at a glance the following features certainly increase productivity: - errors reported as you type thus reducing the number of times needed to build.
chris mayer 1324469700 december 21, 2011 links related news - new typesafe scala company - scala and scala ide for eclipse 2.8.0 final!
sdk how to get facebook notifications faster on android with a blackberry © 1995â2012
you can find scala ide for eclipse at github too, which already houses some interesting forks.
as you can already imagine, the eclipse environment is  thriving with this latest revamped scala plugin.
through  intensive work and contributions from the scala community and users, we're  finally at a stage to see a fully functioning set of scala tools for the  eclipse ide - which can only be a good thing for both parties.
you can find scala ide for eclipse at github too, which already houses some  interesting forks.
welcome - home - news - videos - books - events - java tech journal - home - news - eclipse - editors pick - java - android - architecture - cloud - agile - series - java new java spec request for social media api - java first version of groovyfx arrives - java netbeans
- project builder with dependency tracking - the sbt engine tracks dependencies between source files therefore only builds the sources that need to be built, leaving irrelevant builds behind.
please leave a comment or recommend the article.
this comes in handy when the compiler infers a different type than what you expect.
2011 latest mike lazaridis blackberry founder - "we've let many of you down" game development in ios
this is the last version that will support the 2.8 compiler, as the team look forward to developing 2.1.
what is interesting about this release is that typesafe have actively pursued a stake in development, with martin odersky leading the redesign of the scala presentation compiler, the engine behind the ide semantic actions.
this comes in handy when the compiler infers a  different type than what you expect.
as you can already imagine, the eclipse environment is thriving with this latest revamped scala plugin.
back in april, scala solutions'  iulian dragos hinted that there would be  widesale changes this time round and it appears that lessons have been learnt  from the initial release, which courted some vigourous criticism.
this is the  last version that will support the 2.8 compiler, as the team look forward to  developing 2.1.
- jump to additional (press enter).
through intensive work and contributions from the scala community and users, we're finally at a stage to see a fully functioning set of scala tools for the eclipse ide - which can only be a good thing for both parties.
hover with the mouse over an identifier to see its type.
news most read news today - vmware joins the cloud industry forum - rebel with a cause: interview with… - typesafe release akka 2.0 - a… - browser-based ide eclipse orion gets 0.4… - java 7: the top 8 features past week - vmware joins the cloud industry forum - browser-based ide eclipse orion gets 0.4… - typesafe release akka 2.0 - a… - springsource announces scala dsl for… - cloudbees founder sacha labourey talks… past month - vmware joins the cloud industry forum - java 7: the top 8 features - primefaces angered over copycat icefaces… - last java ee 7 jsr filed with websocket… - oracle gives java 6 extended period of… comments latest opinions videos most viewed videos most popular continuous integration with jenkins bonitasoft ceo miguel valdés faura discusses the future for bpm and java mik kersten jaxconf
what is interesting about this release is that typesafe have actively  pursued a stake in development, with martin odersky leading the redesign  of the scala presentation compiler, the engine behind the ide semantic actions.
there's far more features profiled on the redesigned scala ide website  but the team are already looking to the future - seeing this as the start  of a new beginning and promising important bug fixes soon.
since march's first beta, there have been 12 more (showing how dedicated the  community are to getting it right this time) before this production ready  version.
new java spec request for social media api java first version of groovyfx arrives java netbeans
chris mayer did you like this article?
- code completion - hit ctrl-space to see a list of all members you could invoke at a certain point in your program - inferred type hovers -
reproduction only with permission of the publisher - privacy policy - advertise - contact - terms of use - sitemap - rss - authors - newsletter oops!
since march's first beta, there have been 12 more (showing how dedicated the community are to getting it right this time) before this production ready version.
but the team are already looking to the future - seeing this as the start of a new beginning and promising important bug fixes soon.
definition hyperlinking - simply ctrl-click on an  identifier to navigate to its definition, meaning you don't have to remember in  what source file a definition lies in.
- jump to navigation (press enter).
back in april, scala solutions' iulian dragos hinted that there would be widesale changes this time round and it appears that lessons have been learnt from the initial release, which courted some vigourous criticism.
code completion - hit ctrl-space to see a list of  all members you could invoke at a certain point in your program inferred type hovers - hover with the mouse over an  identifier to see its type.
there's far more features profiled on the redesigned scala ide website
ide 7.1.1 is here, quick to support … eclipse polarsys interview series - thales' benoit … eclipse browser-based ide eclipse orion gets 0.4 … finally, scala ide is enterprise ready scala ide v2.0 for eclipse released after nine months of hard grafting, the scala ide team are proud to  announce that their second major release of the scala plugin for the eclipse  environment is now complete and readily available.
at a glance the following  features certainly increase productivity: errors reported as you type thus reducing the number of  times needed to build.