a standardized environment allows users to easily acclimate to the new system.
it should also be noted  that oracle removed netbeans 7's ruby on rails support in january, 2011.
around the dzone network d popular at dzone - 1:using key events effectively in eclipse rap - 2:webinar april 19th: "getting alm2.0+ to work" (with guest speaker from forrester research) - 3:episode 7: contests, acf10 beta, code school, & angelina jolie's leg - 4:introduction to osgi - 2 (osgi services) - 5:eclipse development team utopias created in 5 minutes - 6:java remote debugging on weblogic server with eclipse - 7:the incredibles: some of my favorite java tools.
a netbeans 7.0.1 release in october will feature the final version of jdk 7.
email views: 25893 we recommend these resources nosql for the enterprise the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm implementing enterprise integration patterns apache lucene 3.0
a standardized environment allows users to easily acclimate to the new  system.
: download the lucidworks certified distribution apache solr: download the lucidworks certified distribution oracle's newly released netbeans 7.0 features support for java 7 features.
there are way too many bugs for it to be usable (yes, i've been filing bug reports).
shh… apple might be watching apple knows where you've been.
- login or register to post comments edvin syse replied on thu, 2011/04/21 - 4:22pm
- springide - using spring in eclipse - create new eclipse workspace - with all your old settings - effective eclipse:
for those who haven't heard, writer peter warden and hacker alasdair allan sharedevidence that apple is tracking all ios 4 users.
rightscale and zend team up with new paas the new rightscale zend php  high availability solution pack, a platform created by the zend/rightscale,  will allow enterprise-level php applications to be deployed in the cloud.
a netbeans 7.0.1 release in october will feature the  final version of jdk 7.
life after visual studio 2010 - final thoughts on s#arp lite - how to create multiview editors for nodes - analyzing s#arp lite - tasks - use windows 8 icons with segoe ui symbol spotlight resources html5 canvas: a web standard for dynamic graphics groovy programming groovy is easy to start with.
desktop support for 6.06 was  discontinued two years ago.
or, it might be more accurate to say that  apple knows where your ipad or iphone has been.
rightscale and zend team up with new paasthe new rightscale zend php high availability solution pack, a platform created by the zend/rightscale, will allow enterprise-level php applications to be deployed in the cloud.
average: 5 your rating: none average: 5  (1 vote) tags:
other improvements  include support for oracle database, the inclusion of glassfish 3.1, and  enhanced integration with oracle weblogic.
log in or join - home - refcardz - microzones - nosql zone - html5 zone - devops zone - solr-lucene - windows phone 7 - .net zone - python zone - zones - agile zone - cloud zone - mobile zone - javalobby - web builder zone - ides and tools - eclipse zone - jetbrains zone - netbeans zone - languages - architects zone - book zone - server zone - library - links - snippets eclipse zone
it should also be noted that oracle removed netbeans 7's ruby on rails support in january, 2011.
although this version of the ubuntu server will be discontinued in may, support will continue for two more years.
thanks jettro coenradie.
which bug reports did you file?
- scripting eclipse with the monkey project: an introduction - discover eclipse's jface dialogs - tips and tricks for debugging in eclipse - netbeans weekly news (issue #527 - mar 5, 2012) - nunit’s new 'action attributes' feature is aop to your unit tests - introduction to log parser studio - visual studio installer projects:
kate stewart, ubuntu's release manager, suggests that that currentubuntu 6.06 users upgrade to 'hardy heron' or ubuntu 8.04 lts.
- follow us - rss - google + - facebook - linkedin - twitter — brian kernigan advertising - terms of service - privacy - © 1997-2012, dzone, inc.
custom templates - who needs an online ide?
or, it might be more accurate to say that apple knows where your ipad or iphone has been.
recommended resources apache solr: download the lucidworks certified distribution implementing enterprise integration patterns developing .net/c# applications with voltdb configuring and running fuse esb migrating to fuse mediation router spotlight features maven: great idea, poor implementation learn html5 in 5 minutes!
as of this june 2011, support  will no longer be offered for ubuntu server 6.06.
- login or register to post comments comment viewing options flat list - collapsedflat list - expanded threaded list - collapsedthreaded list - expanded date - newest firstdate - oldest first 10 comments per page30 comments per page50 comments per page 70 comments per page90 comments per page150 comments per page200 comments per page250 comments per page300 comments per page select your preferred way to display the comments and click "save settings" to activate your changes.
even developers who aren't currently using java 7 will benefit from the netbeans update.
the java evolution mismatch: why you need a better jvm implementing enterprise integration patterns apache lucene 3.0: download the lucidworks certified distribution apache solr: download the lucidworks certified distribution oracle's newly released netbeans 7.0 features support for java 7  features.
desktop support for 6.06 was discontinued two years ago.
they should have waited at least another month.
even developers who aren't currently  using java 7 will benefit from the netbeans update.
i'm speaking as a long-time netbeans user, releasing it at this time was a mistake.
support ending for ubuntu server 6.06
although this version of the ubuntu server will be discontinued  in may, support will continue for two more years.
while the news that apple is  tracking your every move might not come as a surprise to jaded technocrats, the  idea that this information isn't even encrypted is somewhat unsettling.
the jdk 7 component of netbeans 7.0 is technically an early access snapshot.
what ios 5.1 and the new ipad mean for web dev... architects exploring a graph representation of wikipedia usin... web builder resetting the database connection in django you might also like popular on eclipse zone - the 10 commandments of good source control management - algorithm of the week: merge sort - github was hacked over the weekend - here's what happened, from multiple sources - some useful java classes that you might not know about - all the mouse events in javascript - groovy, a reasonable jvm language for devops - sometimes it takes 2 days to do 2 hours of work - developer efficiency - xcode vs. eclipse vs. visual studio - interfaces in dynamic languages - dare to show your code - on useless testing... - test driven development without tears - getting started with data mining - hibernate – please don't deprecate yourself - a collection of brilliant neo4j heroku challenge projects latest articles - effective eclipse: shortcut keys
for those who haven't  heard, writer peter warden and hacker alasdair allan sharedevidence that apple  is tracking all ios 4 users.
thanks jettro  coenradie.
dzone has great portals forpython, cloud, nosql, and html5!
using solr cloud, for real!
mckinsey katie is a dzone employee and has posted 81 posts at dzone.
average: 5 your rating: none average: 5 (1 vote) tags: published at dzone with permission of katie mckinsey , author.
while the news that apple is tracking your every move might not come as a surprise to jaded technocrats, the idea that this information isn't even encrypted is somewhat unsettling.
- apple - java - java 7 - netbeans - php - ubuntu - zend - infrastructure - tools & methods - open source (note: opinions expressed in this article and its replies are the opinions of their respective authors and not those of dzone, inc.) comments cowwoc replied on wed, 2011/04/20 - 6:27pm oracle rushed netbeans 7 out the door.
view full user profile daily dose: netbeans 7.0 has java 7 support 04.20.2011
the jdk 7 component of netbeans 7.0 is technically an early  access snapshot.
for your enjoyment: the basics of node.js.
this reference of best practices and idiomatic solutions smoothly guides you to the next step of... - dzone - refcardz - book reviews - tech library - it questions - snippets - my profile - about dzone - advertise - tools & buttons - send feedback - topics - html5 - wp7 - cloud - mobile - .net - python - java - php - solr-lucene - eclipse - jetbrains - netbeans - agile - devops controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.
support ending for ubuntu server 6.06as of this june 2011, support will no longer be offered for ubuntu server 6.06.
other improvements include support for oracle database, the inclusion of glassfish 3.1, and enhanced integration with oracle weblogic.
kate stewart, ubuntu's release manager,  suggests that that currentubuntu 6.06 users upgrade to 'hardy heron' or ubuntu  8.04 lts.
see more popular at dzone subscribe to the rss feed microsoft robotics developer studio 4 available fo... mobile another way of passing values between windows phon... cloud is so-called noops a by-product of paas?
support is included for java, php, ruby and .net.