the tutorial is clear and simple and discusses in a step by step manner on how to create mobile java games.
qr code: what is this?
you can now view,  edit and create microsoft word, excel and powerpoint files and as wolfenstein rpg for j2me enabled mobile phones wolfenstein rpg is a  first-person shooter created for java mobile enabled cell phones by ea jtwitter j2me mobile application for twitter jtwitter is a twitter  client for your j2me enabled mobile phone.
but i can’t help but notice the really promising features of php development under the near final netbeans 6.5.
so now motorola has announced its new developer studio based on the eclipse platform.
continue reading … posted on jul 3 2008 by igerry comments:4 comments filed under: eclipse, eclipseme, java, midlet, mobile java game, tutorial, wireless toolkit, java mobile development while going thru my mail this morning, i came across a tutorial for a crash course on creating mobile java games.
they are also the creators of the mobile ajax  development tool for j2me calledmojax,.
mobile java developer support under eclipse gets better  and better thanks to the guys at motorola.
continue reading … motorola developer studio announced posted on may 7 2008 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: eclipse, eclipseme ,java me, javaone, motodev, motorola, java mobile development i’ve written about the leadership takeover of motorola on the  eclipseme project and the recent announcements of new mobile development  projects at eclipse.
eclipse day at the googleplex is a half day event for developers to learn about  different eclipse projects and related technologies.
xsd says i*m using win xp und newest netbeans 6.9.1 and got the same  probleme.
mfoundry is a company that focuses on mobile applications  for the financial sector.
well i guess it was just a matter of time.
continue reading … just found out that the android-based htc sensation xl phone is now in the philippines for about php 28,000.
eclipse day at the googleplex is a half day event for developers to learn about different eclipse projects and related technologies.
the next major release of the eclipse platform, code named e4 is now  available.
continue reading … posted on jul 1 2008 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: eclipse, eclipseme ,j2me, mfoundry, mojax, stuff about mobile bank of america via banc of america strategic investments corp has just invested inmfoundry.
pinoi enabling local communities on the internet makati imakati.com is a site that provides information about makati city.
bookmark this page qr code: what is this?
if you remember,motorola has taken lead of the eclipseme project and has released motodev studio which is based on eclipse andeclipseme.
pinoy businesses, enterprises, startups, professionals all over the world are you interested in putting up your own pinoi-enabled local community site?contact me
continue reading … posted on may 16 2008 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: android, eclipse, google, java mobile development, java mobile development want to learn more about eclipse or android tools on eclipse?
mobile/web development mobile/web apps, development, services for android, iphone & wordpress.
continue reading … netbeans version 6.5 in the horizon posted on sep 2 2008 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: eclipse, j2me,  netbeans, nokia, s60, sdk, java mobile development i won’t question the great support for j2me development in the  upcoming netbeans 6.5 (or even in 6.0)
i started sites like ortigas online and imakati which focuses on  local community information.
community site that provides information about the ortigas center.
it provides the  ultimate in flexibility, extensibility and customization for embedded, mobile,  desktop, server and cloud development.
if you’re anywhere near googleplex on june 24, here’s your chance.
naglaa says really needed naglaa says need it
support has been added for several motorola mobile phones.
posted on apr 14 2009 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: adt, android, android sdk, development, eclipse, google, stuff about mobile i’ve just read an announcement that the android sdk 1.5 will be released around the end of the month.
the php netbeans team is really pouring it on to provide a good php ide inside netbeans.
sections apps that run on the java mobile (j2me) platform java games games that run on java mobile (j2me) enabled phones java mobile development tutorials, tips, information, news about mobile java development phones / devices phones / devices that can run j2me /
mfoundry is a company that focuses on mobile applications for the financial sector.
with jtwitter, you can virtual radio mobile application for java phones virtualradio is a  mobile application for java phones that allows you to listen to internet recent comments maheen says salam!!
continue reading … eclipse mobile tools for java version 0.9.1 available posted on jan 5 2009 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: eclipse, inlogic,  j2me, java mobile, mobile java development, motorola, mtj, nokia, sybase, java  mobile development if you use the eclipse ide for mobile development, version 0.9.1 oft the  mobile tools for java is available now.
eclipse android team getting ready for android sdk 1.5 posted on apr 14 2009 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: adt, android,  android sdk, development, eclipse, google, stuff about mobile i’ve just read an announcement that the android sdk 1.5 will be  released around the end of the month.
just found out that the android-based htc sensation xl phone is now in the  philippines for about php 28,000.
continue reading … eclipse mobile tools for java 0.9 gets released
apps & games reviews, news of mobile apps & games for android, ios, blackberry,  symbian... connected phone the computer is the mobile phone.
continue reading … posted on jan 5 2009 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: eclipse, inlogic, j2me, java mobile, mobile java development, motorola, mtj, nokia, sybase, java mobile development if you use the eclipse ide for mobile development, version 0.9.1 oft the mobile tools for java is available now.
if  you’re anywhere near googleplex on june 24, here’s your chance.
it looks like a bunch of cupcake mods will be made  available in sdk 1.5 of android.
continue reading … posted on sep 2 2008 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: eclipse, j2me, netbeans, nokia, s60, sdk, java mobile development i won’t question the great support for j2me development in the upcoming netbeans 6.5 (or even in 6.0)
if you remember,motorola has taken lead of the eclipseme project  and has released motodev studio which is based on eclipse andeclipseme.
in the mean time developers can get  access to a pre-release version to enable them to start using the android sdk  1.5 during development.
continue reading … posted on jul 2 2008 by igerry comments:1 comment filed under: development, eclipse, eclipseme, j2me, java me, motodev studio, motorola, java mobile development motorola has announced the availability of the motodev studio 1.4 for developing j2me applications.
i have  followed the same...
some of the new features in android sdk 1.5  include soft keyboards, home screen widgets, live folders, and speech  recognition.
topics android developer days development eclipse gameloft google j2me java java-enabled mobile phone java midlet java mobile java mobile application  java mobile development java mobile game mobile java mobile java development  mobile phone netbeans nokia sony ericsson privacy policy
continue reading … eclipse e4 is now available posted on apr 2 2008 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: development,  eclipse, java, open source, java mobile development
continue reading … posted on may 7 2008 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: eclipse, eclipseme ,java me, javaone, motodev, motorola, java mobile development i’ve written about the leadership takeover of motorola on the eclipseme project and the recent announcements of new mobile development projects at eclipse.
support has been added for several motorola  mobile phones.
so now motorola  has announced its new developer studio based on the eclipse platform.
java mobile apps and games recommended java games java mobile games that you might want to have on your mobile phone
and of course lets not forget the  initial work done by craig of eclipseme fame.
i am configuring netbeans and nokia sdk..
continue reading … posted on apr 2 2008 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: development, eclipse, java, open source, java mobile development
mobile java developer support under eclipse gets better and better thanks to the guys at motorola.
the next major release of the eclipse platform, code named e4 is now available.
continue reading … creating mobile java games posted on jul 3 2008 by igerry comments:4 comments filed under: eclipse, eclipseme,  java, midlet, mobile java game, tutorial, wireless toolkit, java mobile  development while going thru my mail this morning, i came across a tutorial for a crash  course on creating mobile java games.
read moreabout gerry status (twitter, linkedin,  facebook...)
pinoy me pinoy businesses, enterprises, startups, professionals all over the world pinoi sites are you interested in putting up your own pinoi-enabled local community  site?contact me
i can't find that old guy either he took  off!
continue reading … page 1 of 3 1 2 3 » hi, i'm gerry.
the author, anders, actually does it by going thru an example of a mobile game that he created.
continue reading … bank of america invests in mfoundry posted on jul 1 2008 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: eclipse, eclipseme ,j2me, mfoundry, mojax, stuff about mobile bank of america via banc of america strategic investments corp has just  invested inmfoundry.
the mojax project is headed by rodney  aiglstorfer and has craig setera (creator ofeclipseme) as technical lead.
java mobile apps and games java mobile games that you might want to have on your mobile phone news, opinions, other stuff about mobile and java my blog about the philippines, mobile, technology, games, mac, linux... reviews, news of mobile apps & games for android, ios, blackberry, symbian...
welcome to my blog and sites about mobile,  technology, the pinoy, #crazyidea, games, wordpress, ubuntu, mac, ios, android,  symbian...
it provides the ultimate in flexibility, extensibility and customization for embedded, mobile, desktop, server and cloud development.
continue reading … eclipseday at googleplex posted on may 16 2008 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: android, eclipse,  google, java mobile development, java mobile development want to learn more about eclipse or android tools on eclipse?
the computer is the mobile phone.
posted on oct 16 2008 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: eclipse, eclipseme ,java mobile development, mobile tools for java, motorola, mtj, nokia, sony  ericsson, java mobile development the mtj project of the eclipse foundation has released version 0.9 of the  mobile tools for java.
the tutorial is clear and simple and  discusses in a step by step manner on how to create mobile java games.
and of course lets not forget the initial work done by craig of eclipseme fame.
e4, which is supported on all known hardware and operating systems,  redefines web-based applications and application development.
ortigas community site that provides information about the ortigas center.
the always connected phone evolution.
stuff about mobile news, opinions, other stuff about mobile and java visit my other sites my blog about the philippines, mobile, technology, games, mac, linux...
the  author, anders, actually does it by going thru an example of a mobile game that  he created.
they are also the creators of the mobile ajax development tool for j2me calledmojax,.
e4, which is supported on all known hardware and operating systems, redefines web-based applications and application development.
the php netbeans team is really pouring it on to provide a good php ide inside  netbeans.
but i can’t help but notice the  really promising features of php development under the near final netbeans 6.5.
continue reading … posted on oct 16 2008 by igerry comments:comments off filed under: eclipse, eclipseme ,java mobile development, mobile tools for java, motorola, mtj, nokia, sony ericsson, java mobile development the mtj project of the eclipse foundation has released version 0.9 of the mobile tools for java.
in the mean time developers can get access to a pre-release version to enable them to start using the android sdk 1.5 during development.
recent articles edit office files in android using documents to go
enabling local communities on the internet imakati.com is a site that provides information about makati city.
apps that run on the java mobile (j2me) platform games that run on java mobile (j2me) enabled phones tutorials, tips, information, news about mobile java development phones / devices that can run j2me /
it looks like a bunch of cupcake mods will be made available in sdk 1.5 of android.
you can update your current mtj version using the eclipse update manager.
you can update your current mtj version  using the eclipse update manager.
g says where is the back room!!
the mojax project is headed by rodney aiglstorfer and has craig setera (creator ofeclipseme) as technical lead.
some of the new features in android sdk 1.5 include soft keyboards, home screen widgets, live folders, and speech recognition.
continue reading … motodev studio version 1.4 for j2me posted on jul 2 2008 by igerry comments:1 comment filed under: development, eclipse, eclipseme, j2me, java me, motodev studio, motorola, java mobile development motorola has announced the availability of the motodev studio 1.4 for  developing j2me applications.
mobile/web apps, development, services for android, iphone & wordpress.