linux compares very well to other unixes,  due to its open status.
because for many users, non-"copylefted" software is offensive, linux also has a vast collection of freeware programs.
other than that, linux tends to be faster.
that's because of cooperative  multitasking, as opposed to linux's preemptive multitasking.
if you think dos is the operating system of the future, enjoy its compact design.
with x, most aspects of the interface are so configurable, the user can get his or her desktop to look and feel just about like anything, without opening any source files.
those who have used borland's  dos interface found in turbo c for dos will find its similarities uncanny!
newer linux software shows respect for older software standards  for fast usage, and combines those tools with modern styles to make software  easy to learn.
it featurescustom syntax highlighting, error message parsing, and seamless compiler shelling.
using the term strictly, they task-switch only.
the linux operating system is to huge too be practical
linux, on the other hand, with all its power, takes up about  1/4 of the memory windows 95 does.
nevertheless, these  myths constantly bombard the brilliant linux user interfaces.
networking always has some stigma to it, but  linux is certainly no worse than other operating systems.
windows, on the other hand, is terribly bloated.
although the  interface isn't as standardized as mac or windows, i'd say it's still better.
when you install most linux distributions, the os is every bit as setup as windows 95 or mac system.
the system - - linux multitasks only as well as windows or mac - linux is slow - linux crashes frequently updated 6-17-1997 - linux does not support threads updated 6-17-1997 -
this is because, if the operating system doesn't bring  itself down, nothing will.
copyright © 1997 [name redacted at author's request] this  document may be mirrored, redistributed, and reformatted so long as its content  remains intact.
this program combines the greatest features of finder, explorer w/windows 95, norton desktop, but on steroids.
the fact is, just like those text mode shells, linux support graphical x window system shells for terminal machines.
linux is hard to network for mac, it's appletalk.
by  "mailto:%20ken@kenandted.com%20">[name redacted at author's  request] there are plenty of linux (and unix) myths that have been  creeping around the internet, presenting a danger to the growth of linux and  its eventual overtake of windows, dos, and macintosh.
one operating system that does operations comparable to linux is nt.
for example, in linux, the "general protection fault" error can be triggered only if your computer's memory is simply not keeping its information (in which case, you should return it to the factory).
there is no gui for linuxbut there is!
virtual gameboy emulator linux emulator of nintendo game machine wabi 2.2 for linux run windows 3.1 applications on linux-based workstations wine an alpha-level windows emulator xzx a sinclair zx spectrum 48/128/+3 emulator for unix/x11 xz80 a sinclair zx spectrum emulator other operating systems don't run well with linux not only is linux  friendly to other operating systems on the same drive (not messing up their  partitions, ect), it uses their file systems, and includes utilities to help  have more than one os.
linux myth dispellerby "mailto:%20ken@kenandted.com%20">[name redacted at author's request] there are plenty of linux (and unix) myths that have been creeping around the internet, presenting a danger to the growth of linux and its eventual overtake of windows, dos, and macintosh.
its amazing file manager, menu bar, and utilities make a linux  or unix desktops addictive!
saying, however, that linux has less install-time software than mac system or windows, is laughable.
6-21-1997 installation & setupthere are probably the worst myths about linux for its installation & setup.
linux is slow a few dos programs that act as their own os may do some  things faster than their linux counterparts.
nevertheless, these myths constantly bombard the brilliant linux user interfaces.
it featurescustom syntax highlighting, error  message parsing, and seamless compiler shelling.
sometimes, if you have defective hardware that other operating systems don't take advantage of, linux will crash.
however, some fairly tame screenshots are available at http://www.enlightenment.org/screenshots.html, and more at http://e.themes.org/. ] screenshots of that wild and wacky enlightenment window manager!
this program combines the greatest features of  finder, explorer w/windows 95, norton desktop, but on steroids.
for general linux information, seelinux.com or the linux documentation project.
installations designed for desktop users run around 100 megs, with all the toys, gadgets, utilities, and development software -- internet servers, the same.
there is no office software, or software at all for linuxmost linux distributions come with a huge collection of software, certainly more than you'd find in windows or macos.
the other more modern linux  software is often for the x window system (the gui), and is very easy to use  and learn.
there's some to download, which compares very well to lousy mac and windows office software like works (except with full justify ).
table of contents linux is a nightmare to install updated 6-7-1997 setting up linux requires hours of time, and can only be done by experts
however, nearly every distribution has an installation  program that mealy prompts you for what to install, and some basic settings,  then does all the work for you.
there is no gui for linux but there is!
in beta now, linux supports java  execitables (j-code).
here is a few of my favorite  programs that didn't come with my distribution... tkdesk is simply glorious.
(information taken from linux applications and utitities): atari atari 800, 800xl, 130xe and 5200 emulator bochs a portable shareware x86 emulator for x window system-equipped boxes bsvc a microprocessor simulation framework (motorola 68000 & hector  1600)
to some extent, this can be said about any operating system.
mac system is consistently slower, as are most  windows programs.
while it is most popular on the x86 pc, the linux kernel  has been ported to power mac hardware, sparc workstations, dec machines, and  more.
the linux operating system is too huge to be practical - linux is hard to network - linux is an insecure operating system new 6-17-1997 - software & development - - there is no office software, or software at all for linux updated 6-21-1997 - linux software is hard to use unix-left overs - linux doesn't support java updated 6-8-1997 - linux is impossible to develop for - usability - -
networking linux can be done in one weekend (assuming you do have network cards), with some reading, testing, and setting up.
dos is  always going to be smaller than linux.
an oric emulator/simulator for linux - executor a commercial macintosh emulator by ardi - frodo
here are a few software resources...
networking linux can be done in one weekend (assuming you do have network  cards), with some reading, testing, and setting up.
most linux distributions come with dosemu, a dos emulator -- not to mention these fine linux emulation programs...
there is -- the x window  system.
linux is impossible to develop for when you get linux, you get tons of  great compilers (including gcc & g++).
experts of course can reconfigure more, such as rewriting some of the  utilities, but everyday users are perfectly capable of configuring standard  usage settings.
linux is pc-exclusivelinux was created on a pc running minix, a smaller unix clone.
mac system is consistently slower, as are most windows programs.
linux, on the other hand, with all its power, takes up about 1/4 of the memory windows 95 does.
windows 3.1 has a preemptive mouse only.
compatibilityit's safe to say linux is the most compatible operating system ever.
linux crashes frequentlyhardware is often ignored by other operating systems.
the compatibility myths are fueled by those who believe windows is the only operating system that is compatible, and therefore by default linux must not be compatible with other standards.
although the interface isn't as standardized as mac or windows, i'd say it's still better.
even you don't have other operating systems, linux has emulators to  let you run programs that aren't even made for linux.
when you install most linux  distributions, the os is every bit as setup as windows 95 or mac system.
there is no office software, or software at all for linux
for the internet, it's tcp/ip.
the myth that linux has no gui is made by those who are ignorant enough to beleive that an isp's unix shell is as far as unix extends to.
linux does not support threads does it ever!
if you think one needs to be listed, pleasee-mail me.
linux is an insecure operating system generally, unix-like systems  have a reputation of being insecure.
email [name redacted at author's  request]/a>.
there is no office software, or software at all for linux updated  6-21-1997
office softare, linux does notcome with much of.
while linux does come with games, some office-related software, however, those do leave something to be desired, but no more than mac system or windows.
woven goods for linux has a fair collection of linux apps in a well  categorized list.
if you don't like the power of these  shells, you can use lsh, a shell that looks, acts, and feels like dos!
linux does not support threadsdoes it ever!
" linux doesn't support graphicial networkingfor windows and mac users, their isps' unix shell is the full extent of unix.
its file mapping and mounting allows you to use other file systems, such as dos's fat16 (with windows 95 long filenames), os/2's hpfs file system, minix's and others.
that's because of cooperative multitasking, as opposed to linux's preemptive multitasking.
most linux distributions come with dosemu, a dos emulator  -- not to mention these fine linux emulation programs...
therefore, when a program is taking a while on a specific procedure, it can hang up the system, and deny other programs operating time.
copyright holder reserves the right to change copyright provisions without notice.
linux distributions comes with all the development software,  internet software (besides netscape), and system-related software you'll need.
linux supports fully  preemptive threads for all programs and scripts that request it!
there are a growing number  of linux-based isps and web servers, and very few cracking incidents have  happened on these.
programs can never crash the system under linux,  because of the way it's built with things like memory protection, instruction  monitoring, and other devices built into any true kernel.
it's safe to say linux is the most compatible operating  system ever.
preemptive  thread steroids.
there's bash and tcsh, which are both clones of various unix shells.
windows users have a bad experience with an x window system, and never  seem to get over it.
in hard drive space, and in memory.
linux supports  them all.
archivist's note: this document was originally at http://lds.mikrus.pw.edu.pl/myths/linux/, but has vanished from that site, and is archived here to ensure its continued availability.
applixware, star office and others come with the  features of ms office, but tend to run cleaner and faster.
preemptive thread steroids.
email [name redacted at author's request]/a>.
linux is well  over twice as fast as nt.
for novell, it's ipx.
a properly set up linux system that is running on good hardware will nearly never crash.
linux multitasks only as well as windows or mac microsoft and apple  would have you believe that their operating systems multitask (run more than  one program at once).
in the olden days, this has been true, and linux can be made hard to install.
the operating system also provides libraries that you must normally program yourself (including sound, graphics, and more).
setting up linux requires hours of time, and can only be done by experts this myth is perpetuated by the fact that linux is so customizable.
this myth is totally ungrounded, and is really pretty silly.
please note that christopher browne has an additional copy, at http://www.ntlug.org/~cbbrowne/myths.html.
as you may know, tcp/ip (the internet protocol family) is the best networking protocol, and is native to unix.
however, when its code is readily obtainable, more experts are likely to download it and report its bugs.
in a preemptive multitasker, a program is given  a set number of clock cycles, then it is preempted, and another program has the  system for a set number of clock cycles.
table of contents - installation & setup - - linux is a nightmare to install updated 6-7-1997 - setting up linux requires hours of time, and can only be done by experts - after you install linux, you still don't have any everyday software -
screenshots of that wild and wacky enlightenment window manager!
linux java tips and hints page: is mainly for developers, and has tips and  tricks for programmers who use java.
linux is impossible to develop forwhen you get linux, you get tons of great compilers (including gcc & g++).
(information taken from linux applications and utitities): - atari atari 800, 800xl, 130xe and 5200 emulator - bochs a portable shareware x86 emulator for x window system-equipped boxes - bsvc a microprocessor simulation framework (motorola 68000 & hector 1600) - dosemu the linux dos emulator - euphoric
a couple screenshots of x desktops...
changing, recompiling, and other modifications that can only be done under unix systems and not under windows makes linux an operating system that can be configured to do and be just about anything.
time has  proven this thoery: remember when the netscape bug was discovered by a student?
[freeware, gpl] there are of course more, but i'm not here to list the programs i use.
it's a great programming editor, for both x and charecter mode.
a better statement may be that linux's command prompts are like dos's on steroids: they support redirection operators, scripts, and command prompt functions!
[converted to 8-bit for downloadability] [archivist's note: the html originally linked here is now unavailable.
with x, most aspects of the interface are so configurable, the user can get his  or her desktop to look and feel just about like anything, without opening any  source files.
for windows, it's a mystery.
linux myth dispeller
there is no gui for linux - linux's command prompt is worse than dos's updated 6-7-1997 - linux doesn't support graphical networking new!
for example, in  linux, the "general protection fault" error can be triggered only if  your computer's memory is simply not keeping its information (in which case,  you should return it to the factory).
windows, on the other hand, is  terribly bloated.
after getting a linux cd, you'll probably be up and running within an hour.
the free portable c64 emulator for beos/unix/macos/amigaos hp48 emulation of the hp-48 calculator multiprocessor simulator "execution-driven" simulator for intel  cpus ntrigue display ms-windows apps on an x window system screen snes96 a super nintendo entertainment system emulator stella 96 an atari 2600 emulator stonx an atari st emulator for x11 u.a.e. a unix amiga emulator vice the versatile commodore 8-bit emulator (emulates the c64, c128,  vic20, and pet) virtual 2600 an atari 2600 (!) emulator
therefore, when a program is  taking a while on a specific procedure, it can hang up the system, and deny  other programs operating time.
so, if you view power as bad, linux is "worse.
copyright © 1997 [name redacted at author's request] this document may be mirrored, redistributed, and reformatted so long as its content remains intact.
while linux can be made to have a challenging installation & setup, most distributions take care of it for you.
a couple screenshots of x desktops... -
for example, look at what the text editor emacs supports extra toys for!
dos is always going to be smaller than linux.
although the windows 95 box says 4 megs, the os can't even fit itself in 4 megs, and gets swapped in and out, without any programs running.
office softare, linux does notcome with  much of.
also, since many linux  programs are truly free, and come with their source code, other users add file  formats to existing applications.
this is because, if the operating system doesn't bring itself down, nothing will.
this is to be expected.
another myth about open oses in general is that they are insecure, which is based on the thought that its weeknesses are exposed in its source code.
however, some fairly tame screenshots are available at http://www.enlightenment.org/screenshots.html, and more at http://e.themes.org/. ]
6-7-1997 - the linux desktop is
[freeware, gpl] linux software is hard to use unix-left oversa lot of the unix software for linux does have a learning curve.
some hyperlinks to no-longer-available image files have been removed, and some broken/outdated links fixed.
linux applications and utilities page is a great resource page, and has  lots of great applications ready for download red hat software publishes the linux version of applix, and has plenty of  great software resources to download.
linux software is hard to use unix-left overs linux doesn't support java updated 6-8-1997 linux is impossible to develop for usability
the linux operating system is too huge to be practical linux is hard to network linux is an insecure operating system new 6
- linux applications and utilities page is a great resource page, and has lots of great applications ready for download - red hat software publishes the linux version of applix, and has plenty of great software resources to download.
the simple  truth is, linux has better threading than windows 95 or nt's threads, and mac  system and windows don't have threads if they aren't managed by the program or  a third-party library.
the operating system also provides libraries that you must  normally program yourself (including sound, graphics, and more).
for general linux  information, seelinux.com or the linux documentation project.
copyright © 1997 [name redacted at author's request] questions?
linux is preemptive through and through.
linux's lilo will load linux, dos/win95, os/2, and more.
while linux does come with games, some office-related software, however, those  do leave something to be desired, but no more than mac system or windows.
the free portable c64 emulator for beos/unix/macos/amigaos - hp48 emulation of the hp-48 calculator - multiprocessor simulator "execution-driven" simulator for intel cpus - ntrigue display ms-windows apps on an x window system screen - snes96 a super nintendo entertainment system emulator - stella 96 an atari 2600 emulator - stonx an atari st emulator for x11 - u.a.e. a unix amiga emulator - vice the versatile commodore 8-bit emulator (emulates the c64, c128, vic20, and pet) - virtual 2600 an atari 2600 (!) emulator - virtual gameboy emulator linux emulator of nintendo game machine - wabi 2.2 for linux run windows 3.1 applications on linux-based workstations - wine an alpha-level windows emulator - xzx a sinclair zx spectrum 48/128/+3 emulator for unix/x11 - xz80 a sinclair zx spectrum emulator other operating systems don't run well with linuxnot only is linux friendly to other operating systems on the same drive (not messing up their partitions, ect), it uses their file systems, and includes utilities to help have more than one os.
the system the linux system and kernel are very powerful.
- linux java tips and hints page: is mainly for developers, and has tips and tricks for programmers who use java.
the other more modern linux software is often for the x window system (the gui), and is very easy to use and learn.
unix machines have had this for about a decade, linux has had it for  years, and just now nt is getting into it.
windows and mac libraries programmers usually have to pay obscene amounts of money for such things, and are less likely to buy them.
the myths here are nearly as bad as the installation &  setup myths.
copyright © 1997 [name redacted at  author's request] questions?
although more than one program may be opened, you may notice that sometimes the system stops responding -- perhaps while mounting (detecting) a cd, or scanning a floppy drive.
[freeware, gpl] - visual tcl is much like a visual basic ide for tcl/tk.
6-21-1997 installation & setup there are probably the worst myths about  linux for its installation & setup.
some hyperlinks to  no-longer-available image files have been removed, and some broken/outdated  links fixed.
mac system has absolutely nothing preemptive about it (although apple  claims the new os will be partially preemptive).
a cooperative  multitasker (such as mac system or windows) will give a program control of the  system until the program chooses to give it back.
how likely is it that the bug would have been exposed, if he weren't able to download the security-related source and inspect it.
in the linux free software community, there is a wealth of shared  and static libraries that the programmer can use to support many file formats.
research information regard security at.
on the other hand, with a closed system like rhapsody or windows nt, only crackers ("hackers") actually reverse engineer the code to exploit its security issues.
" linux doesn't support graphicial networking for windows and mac users,  their isps' unix shell is the full extent of unix.
linux crashes frequently hardware is often ignored by other operating  systems.
sometimes, mac and (even  more)
usability linux usability has never been better.
because linux is really a full unix, it comes with everything you'd seen in a a  standard unix build, too.
there is no gui for linux linux's command prompt is worse than dos's updated 6-7-1997 linux doesn't support graphical networking new!
its amazing file manager, menu bar, and utilities make a linux or unix desktops addictive!
to prevent such a  tragedy, i attempt to dispel many of the myths that plague linux's reputation.
between apple and microsoft,  their only fully preemptive multitasker is windows nt.
time has proven this thoery: remember when the netscape bug was discovered by a student?
however, nearly every distribution has an installation program that mealy prompts you for what to install, and some basic settings, then does all the work for you.
here is some information on java and linux: java-linux porting project: has general information about the java port to  linux.
linux software is hard to use unix-left overs a lot of the unix  software for linux does have a learning curve.
saying, however,  that linux has less install-time software than mac system or windows, is  laughable.
there are a growing number of linux-based isps and web servers, and very few cracking incidents have happened on these.
in the olden days, this has been true, and linux  can be made hard to install.
windows and mac libraries programmers usually have to pay obscene amounts of  money for such things, and are less likely to buy them.
[archivist's note: the html originally linked here is now unavailable.
software & development software, and the development of it, is  great under linux.
so, if  you view power as bad, linux is "worse.
most distributions include a program  called window programming environment (wpe), which provides a programming  environment with custom syntax-highlighting, compiling, and everything else an  ide should have.
linux is slowa few dos programs that act as their own os may do some things faster than their linux counterparts.
it is also native to linux.
copyright holder reserves the right to change copyright  provisions without notice.
the myth that  linux has no gui is made by those who are ignorant enough to beleive that an  isp's unix shell is as far as unix extends to.
linux is well over twice as fast as nt.
linux supports them all.
klunky and unattractive new!
in a preemptive multitasker, a program is given a set number of clock cycles, then it is preempted, and another program has the system for a set number of clock cycles.
after you install linux, you still don't have any everyday software
networking always has some stigma to it, but linux is certainly no worse than other operating systems.
mac system has absolutely nothing preemptive about it (although apple claims the new os will be partially preemptive).
the  catch is, windows 95 and mac system have a limited set of changes you can make.
on the other hand, linux takes advantage of all the hardware it can.
[converted to 8-bit for downloadability] -
between apple and microsoft, their only fully preemptive multitasker is windows nt.
programs can never crash the system under linux, because of the way it's built with things like memory protection, instruction monitoring, and other devices built into any true kernel.
although more than one program may be opened, you may  notice that sometimes the system stops responding -- perhaps while mounting  (detecting) a cd, or scanning a floppy drive.
the installation can be handled manually, in which case it may take a while (this would be copying each file set, and unpacking them by hand).
linux multitasks only as well as windows or macmicrosoft and apple would have you believe that their operating systems multitask (run more than one program at once).
to prevent such a tragedy, i attempt to dispel many of the myths that plague linux's reputation.
6-21-1997 - compatibility - - linux is pc-exclusive - linux only supports linux executables new!
the linux operating system is to huge too be practicalthere are two ways an operating system can be big.
questions and comments?
older unix software may take some time to learn, but, after it is  learned, is more productive than macintosh, and similar to windows-level
the systemthe linux system and kernel are very powerful.
unix machines have had this for about a decade, linux has had it for years, and just now nt is getting into it.
for example, look at what the text editor  emacs supports extra toys for!
this myth is  totally ungrounded, and is really pretty silly.
experts of course can reconfigure more, such as rewriting some of the utilities, but everyday users are perfectly capable of configuring standard usage settings.
its drivers have been ported to intel x86, and it's great!
the linux desktop is klunky and unattractivesometimes, mac and (even more)
the simple truth is, linux has better threading than windows 95 or nt's threads, and mac system and windows don't have threads if they aren't managed by the program or a third-party library.
windows 3.1 has a preemptive  mouse only.
linux is hard to networkfor mac, it's appletalk.
in memory, windows 95 takes up obscene amounts of memory, enough to make a kernel programmer dizzy.
based on what i have seen in on-line newspapers, magazines, newsgroups, and on  the web, i have compiled a list of false-myths about linux, and i explain where  (if at all) these myths are based, and what the facts are.
- tkdesk is simply glorious.
6-21-1997 - other operating systems don't run well with linux - standard file formats are not accepted by linux updated!
the linux desktop is klunky and unattractive
this is simply because they aren't being multitasked by the system.
applixware, star office and others come with the features of ms office, but tend to run cleaner and faster.
a properly set up linux system that is running on good hardware  will nearly never crash.
the myths here are nearly as bad as the installation & setup myths.
linux is a nightmare to install i installed linux in less than an  hour, and was up and running.
because linux is really a full unix, it comes with everything you'd seen in a a standard unix build, too.
when a programmer is going to create an application, he or she will have to decide what file formats to support.
using the term strictly,  they task-switch only.
dosemu the linux dos emulator euphoric an oric emulator/simulator for linux executor a commercial macintosh emulator by ardi frodo
its file mapping and mounting allows you to use other file systems, such as  dos's fat16 (with windows 95 long filenames), os/2's hpfs file system, minix's  and others.
just like on a macintosh or windows software, you can spend large amounts of money for commercial office suits.
in beta now, linux supports java execitables (j-code).
one  operating system that does operations comparable to linux is nt.
older unix software may take some time to learn, but, after it is learned, is more productive than macintosh, and similar to windows-level
6-21-1997 other operating systems don't run well with linux standard file formats are not accepted by linux updated!
of all the  fictional linux myths, these are probably the most untrue.
windows 95 is partially preemptive.
linux is a nightmare to installi installed linux in less than an hour, and was up and running.
if you don't like the power of these shells, you can use lsh, a shell that looks, acts, and feels like dos!
linux's command prompt is worse than dos'slinux, like unix, lets you choose your command prompt.
archivist's note: this document was originally at  http://lds.mikrus.pw.edu.pl/myths/linux/, but has vanished from that site, and  is archived here to ensure its continued availability.
if  you think one needs to be listed, pleasee-mail me.
a cooperative multitasker (such as mac system or windows) will give a program control of the system until the program chooses to give it back.
also, since many linux programs are truly free, and come with their source code, other users add file formats to existing applications.
[freeware, gpl] window programming environment: ok, it did come with my distribution, but  doesn't come with many others.
alas, nt takes up more memory than any other operating system to date, and mac system's usage is comparable to 3.1's, which takes up about as much as linux.
claiming an os should remain stable when your memory doesn't retain information is unrealistic.
linux only supports linux executablesnatively, linux supports minix, system v, a.out, and elf executable formats.
installations designed for desktop users run around 100 megs, with all the  toys, gadgets, utilities, and development software -- internet servers, the  same.
linux doesn't support java just like any other modern unix, linux  supports java applications with kernel integration to the interpreter, compiles  java applications and applets, and has java-enabled web browsers (such as netscape).
windows users have a bad experience with an x window system, and never seem to get over it.
in the linux free software community, there is a wealth of shared and static libraries that the programmer can use to support many file formats.
in memory, windows 95 takes up obscene amounts of memory, enough to make  a kernel programmer dizzy.
this is simply because they aren't  being multitasked by the system.
those who have used borland's dos interface found in turbo c for dos will find its similarities uncanny!
there are of course more, but i'm not here to list the programs i use.
for novell, it's  ipx.
most distributions include a program called window programming environment (wpe), which provides a programming environment with custom syntax-highlighting, compiling, and everything else an ide should have.
my desktop, literally, as i write this document!
the system linux multitasks only as well as windows or mac linux is slow linux crashes frequently updated 6-17-1997 linux does not support threads updated 6-17-1997
while it is most popular on the x86 pc, the linux kernel has been ported to power mac hardware, sparc workstations, dec machines, and more.
[freeware, gpl] visual tcl is much like a visual basic ide for tcl/tk.
the catch is, windows 95 and mac system have a limited set of changes you can make.
connecting it to the  internet takes about 10 minutes.
even you don't have other operating systems, linux has emulators to let you run programs that aren't even made for linux.
[archivist's note: the mydesktop.gif file originally linked here is  now unavailable.]
while windows 95 and linux take up similar amounts of  hard-drive space, linux has much more packed into the disk space used.
just  like on a macintosh or windows software, you can spend large amounts of money  for commercial office suits.
usabilitylinux usability has never been better.
all you have to do to learn that one's user interface is a  personal preference is to listen to a mac vs. windows spam-debate on usenet.
because for many  users, non-"copylefted" software is offensive, linux also has a vast  collection of freeware programs.
as you may know, tcp/ip (the internet protocol family) is the best  networking protocol, and is native to unix.
linux applications support as many file formats, if not more than other platforms.
changing, recompiling, and other modifications that can only be done under unix  systems and not under windows makes linux an operating system that can be  configured to do and be just about anything.
here is a few of my favorite programs that didn't come with my distribution... - woven goods for linux has a fair collection of linux apps in a well categorized list.
although the windows 95 box says 4 megs, the os  can't even fit itself in 4 megs, and gets swapped in and out, without any  programs running.
all you have to do to learn that one's user interface is a personal preference is to listen to a mac vs. windows spam-debate on usenet.
another myth about open oses in general is that they  are insecure, which is based on the thought that its weeknesses are exposed in  its source code.
linux is pc-exclusive linux was created on a pc running minix, a  smaller unix clone.
the fact is, just like those  text mode shells, linux support graphical x window system shells for terminal  machines.
linux applications support  as many file formats, if not more than other platforms.
the installation can be handled manually, in  which case it may take a while (this would be copying each file set, and  unpacking them by hand).
there's some to download, which compares very well to lousy mac and  windows office software like works (except with full justify ).
when a programmer is  going to create an application, he or she will have to decide what file formats  to support.
linux's command prompt is worse than dos's linux, like unix,  lets you choose your command prompt.
a better statement may be that linux's command  prompts are like dos's on steroids: they support redirection operators,  scripts, and command prompt functions!
here is some information on java and linux: - java-linux porting project: has general information about the java port to linux.
most linux  distributions come with a huge collection of software, certainly more than  you'd find in windows or macos.
[freeware, gpl] - window programming environment: ok, it did come with my distribution, but doesn't come with many others.
there's bash and tcsh, which are both  clones of various unix shells.
software & developmentsoftware, and the development of it, is great under linux.
newer linux software shows respect for older software standards for fast usage, and combines those tools with modern styles to make software easy to learn.
additional myths i'm sure there are myths i haven't mentioned here.
there is -- the x window system.
if you think dos is the operating system  of the future, enjoy its compact design.
how likely is it that the bug would have been exposed, if he weren't able to  download the security-related source and inspect it.
6-7-1997 the linux desktop is klunky and unattractive new!
alas, nt takes up more memory than any other  operating system to date, and mac system's usage is comparable to 3.1's, which  takes up about as much as linux.
linux is preemptive through and  through.
while windows 95 and linux take up similar amounts of hard-drive space, linux has much more packed into the disk space used.
there are two  ways an operating system can be big.
standard file formats are not accepted by linux what file formats are  and aren't supported is really up the applications.
the compatibility myths are fueled by those who believe windows is  the only operating system that is compatible, and therefore by default linux  must not be compatible with other standards.
some of the widgets are super, and it's a very fast interface.
while linux can be made to have a  challenging installation & setup, most distributions take care of it for  you.
linux distributions comes with all the development software, internet software (besides netscape), and system-related software you'll need.
linux supports fully preemptive threads for all programs and scripts that request it!
standard file formats are not accepted by linuxwhat file formats are and aren't supported is really up the applications.
using the term loosely, they do.
sometimes, if you have defective hardware that other operating systems don't  take advantage of, linux will crash.
on the other hand, with a closed  system like rhapsody or windows nt, only crackers ("hackers")  actually reverse engineer the code to exploit its security issues.
claiming an os  should remain stable when your memory doesn't retain information is  unrealistic.
6-21-1997 compatibility linux only supports linux executables new!
linux is an insecure operating systemgenerally, unix-like systems have a reputation of being insecure.
after getting a linux cd, you'll probably be up  and running within an hour.
linux compares very well to other unixes, due to its open status.
however, when its code is readily obtainable, more experts are  likely to download it and report its bugs.
it's a great programming editor, for both x and  charecter mode.
linux only supports linux executables natively, linux supports minix,  system v, a.out, and elf executable formats.
of all the fictional linux myths, these are probably the most untrue.
linux doesn't support javajust like any other modern unix, linux supports java applications with kernel integration to the interpreter, compiles java applications and applets, and has java-enabled web browsers (such as netscape).
connecting it to the internet takes about 10 minutes.
[archivist's note: the mydesktop.gif file originally linked here is now unavailable.]
based on what i have seen in on-line newspapers, magazines, newsgroups, and on the web, i have compiled a list of false-myths about linux, and i explain where (if at all) these myths are based, and what the facts are.
-17-1997 software & development