but he has a full time job with the kernel.)
i've always had an excellent experience with the software.
i was not about to expose the writers to an enormous amount of frustration and wasted time.
another tell-tale sign that the days of windows as we know it are drawing  to a close are the increasing number of stories aboutmidori: microsoft is incubating a componentized non-windows operating system known  as midori, which is being architected from the ground up to tackle challenges  that redmond has determined cannot be met by simply evolving its existing  technology.
no, it's the fact that however microsoft tries to spin the numbers, vista is simply not catching on.
this is manifest most clearly  in schools, where teaching computing really means teaching children how to use  windows and office.
back in '97 and '98, i used it for docs that consisted of several sections.
when i was teaching engineering all the postgrad students used latex for their theses. one guy decided word was the way forward.
there are many people doing this.
what started out as a cool, but rather marginal, idea has now started gain momentum.
once people realise they have a choice, then windows'  stranglehold on the desktop market will be fatally loosened.
i tried word from time to time up until ooo came out and it still sucked.
b) certain services where the need is not consistent and the customer pays by the dip.
and as if that weren't enough, there's yet another interesting approach that could have a substantial impact on people's perception of free software – and of windows.
but that does not mean that windows will maintain its dominance there, simply that the future is more complex than the monoculture we have seen and suffered for nearly two decades.
i own some windows clients and am rather adept at using them.
i would like to suggest that the free software world should start looking at things from a different perspective – not how many percentage points gnu/linux gains on the desktop, but how many microsoft is losing to *all* of the alternatives to windows.
thesplashtop technology uses gnu/linux as a kind of  pre-operating system that lets users boot up very quickly to gain internet  access and perform key tasks such as checking email or moving around the web.
the traditional desktop experience is being further redefined through the move to cloud computing solutions, which are frequently browser-based, and the appearance of gnu/linux-based ultraportables, which also draw on net-based solutions for much of their convenience.
the only service of any significance is fios and its not sufficiently deployed nationally.
i felt like telling him to look outside the box he's put himself in.
maybe a few other isolated submissions.
that's when i switched.
"can we not only emulate, but can we blow right past  apple?" quite correctly, shuttleworth sees apple as the one to beat these days.
what this means is that users of these systems, even when rigorously  windows-based, will be experiencing the power and speed of gnu/linux, albeit  unwittingly, when they use this mode.
there are a number of straws in the wind indicating that windows no longer provides the benchmark for desktop computing.
if you are not talking about the kernel, why do you bring up linus?
the most obvious manifestation of this has been the utter fiasco that is vista.
although the market share  of gnu/linux there is finally lifting – figuresrange from 3% to 11%,  according to the sector – it seems unlikely that gnu/linux will ever take  over the desktop from windows.
http://answers.yahoo.com/question/index;_ylt=anhg2zl4tp3j_bsu0t9zghjsy6i...
there are some very cool looking alternative oses being designed, and i certainly wouldn't want to steer anyone away from them into linux for some weird reason.
i knew ooo would get better and ms word would only get more bloated and more clunky.
i didn't grow up entirely inside the windows bubble.
i've been using ooo on windohs and linux for the last 6+ years to process, edit, create all sorts of ms docs and spreadsheets for a client that is windohs only.
as something of an obsessive magpie, i've tended to  keep most of it, “for reference”.
all those 'life coaches' suddenly have an increase of clientele from all those windohs people with mcse certs.
this is not so much things like the recentsecurity hole in vista's  memory protection, which may ormay not be a big deal – although if bruce  schneiersees it as a real problem, then i think microsoft's probably in  trouble.
i don't think it unreasonable over a 5-10 period to see linux acceptance at the 25% mark as a portion of market share.
in the end it cost him a huge amount of time, frustration and effort splitting up the document into parts that word would handle.
where i might have a quibble is the expectation of the cloud being a bigger player.
it’s a fully integrated technology that will appear later this year on the dell 4200 and 4300 latitude series notebooks, and is powered by a linux os, sort of as a secondary operating system.
sd times has viewed internal microsoft documents that outline midori’s proposed design, which is internet-centric and predicated on the prevalence of connected systems.
by the way what personifies "linux people" from users in general? furthermore, many of us involved in what you call business already use linux and bsd the way the article describes as a heterogeneous environment, and the microsoft slice of the mix is declining.
free software has nothing to fear from a  heterogeneous environment – indeed, mixing technologies almost forces  open standards upon manufacturers if they want to provide full interoperability.
i actually don't care whether the developer looks like a hippy or dressed in a tux(edo), or what mentality he or she has, or as long as the code is effective and secure.
but besides that not more than a confirmation that some folks get stuck in the past, or even worse an imaginary illusion of a past.
another tell-tale sign that the days of windows as we know it are drawing to a close are the increasing number of stories aboutmidori: microsoft is incubating a componentized non-windows operating system known as midori, which is being architected from the ground up to tackle challenges that redmond has determined cannot be met by simply evolving its existing technology.
although the market share of gnu/linux there is finally lifting – figuresrange from 3% to 11%, according to the sector – it seems unlikely that gnu/linux will ever take over the desktop from windows.
stable operating systems?
moreover, as many have pointed out, the low number of gnu/linux viruses is only in part down to the latter's superior design.
tech is very democratic price wise.
moreover, if the idea  proves popular, it's not hard to imagine most pc manufacturers following suit  in order to match dell's move, ensuring that many more people experience the  fact that it is possible to use a pc without using windows.
and as if that weren't enough, there's yet another interesting approach  that could have a substantial impact on people's perception of free software  – and of windows.
thesplashtop technology uses gnu/linux as a kind of pre-operating system that lets users boot up very quickly to gain internet access and perform key tasks such as checking email or moving around the web.
even if you can keep it or windohs running.
once people realise they have a choice, then windows' stranglehold on the desktop market will be fatally loosened.
i'm in the process of replacing bbedit with bluefish and acrobat pro with several smaller light-weight apps.
oss on linux is fine.
even if they don't know it's gnu/linux,  they will certainly be aware that it is not windows.
there is however one occurence of the word "linux" which you forgot to prefix with the gnu/ reminder.
against this background, then, we should be celebrating what looks increasingly like the end of the windows era on the desktop, but not in the naïve, and slightly selfish hope that it will usher in one purely based on gnu/linux.
i've noticed a paradigm out there and people are happy to live within the little bubble.
i think linux has made for itself the biggest name in oss, but linux itself isn't really the issue.
this is manifest most clearly in schools, where teaching computing really means teaching children how to use windows and office.
linux still gains regardless.
on works by bypassing the windows operating system so that you get immediate access to things like your calendar, email, internet, and contacts.
in a sure sign that the approach is entering the mainstream, now dell hasjoined the club: dell’s latitude
the windows monoculture.
the ui at that time was becoming bizarre and inconsistent, but i was able to get my work done.
matter is that i'm depressed about linux for its unhappy and ill looking graphical interface especially like gnome, new kde.
that is about where we are right now in the online space.
the continuing rise in popularity  of apple's machines is a clear indication that more people are looking beyond  microsoft, something that was reflected in mark shuttleworth's recentexhortation  to the free software community: "the great task in front of us over the next two years is to lift the  experience of the linux desktop from something that is stable and robust and  not so pretty, into something that is art," shuttleworth said to applause  from the audience.
this is not so much things like the recentsecurity hole in vista's memory protection, which may ormay not be a big deal – although if bruce schneiersees it as a real problem, then i think microsoft's probably in trouble.
don't get me wrong ...
the president actually said to me "well, i can't change the entire paradigm".
the company can try all themarketing tricks it likes, but customers are voting with their wallets byopting for the “downgrade” to xp: an official at pc maker hewlett-packard said the majority of the company's business customers are downgrading new computers from windows vista to windows xp -- raising questions about microsoft's vista sales figures.
congratulations glyn, that's one of the best articles i've read in a long time.
so when a product manager came to us with a doc they had started in word, rather than go through a messy convoluted conversion and since prod managers didn't really understand how to do much formatting to begin with, i finished it off.
they're intimidated by technology in general, and they believe windows makes things easy enough for them to cope.
on works by bypassing the windows operating system so  that you get immediate access to things like your calendar, email, internet,  and contacts.
at the moment, there is a widespread if tacit  assumption that desktop computing *is* windows.
one of the best proofs that free software is superior in all senses  to proprietary software is having the maturity to recognise that the world of  personal computing today is far more complicated, and far richer, than bill  gates's original, monopolistic vision of “a (microsoft-based) computer on  every desktop”.
i wholeheartedly agree.
i've use openoffice as a rescue in many such situations.
improved computing security?
a bunch of m$ trolls going on unemployment?
but for some reason, ms thinks it knows better and really began to screw with the ui not to mention bloating the daylights out of the software.
(ok, he did submit at least one patch to the gnome project.
it’s a fully integrated technology that will appear later  this year on the dell 4200 and 4300 latitude series notebooks, and is powered  by a linux os, sort of as a secondary operating system.
the continuing rise in popularity of apple's machines is a clear indication that more people are looking beyond microsoft, something that was reflected in mark shuttleworth's recentexhortation to the free software community: "the great task in front of us over the next two years is to lift the experience of the linux desktop from something that is stable and robust and not so pretty, into something that is art," shuttleworth said to applause from the audience.
what this means is that users of these systems, even when rigorously windows-based, will be experiencing the power and speed of gnu/linux, albeit unwittingly, when they use this mode.
this has not been my experience.
i didn't know there was gonna be a quiz!
what started out as a cool, but rather marginal, idea has now started gain  momentum.
and they were there, available, with a low barrier to entry.
for many years, people in the free software world have dreamed of a day when gnu/linux would replace windows on the desktop.
c) company has capital constraints on it acquisitions that can be differed as a expense stream using a similar service online.
i grew up around it, with technology and cut my teeth on so many different things, windows was one tool in the toolbox.
what's makes this little spring-cleaning exercise particularly apt as well as cathartic is that all of us - and not just me - may finally be witnessing the end of the windows era.
broadband is not where it should be at a bandwidth/pricepoint to make the cloud price competive for a replacement of the os.
can anyone tell how can we make linux more elegant, more friendly in both textual and graphical interface..
even if they don't know it's gnu/linux, they will certainly be aware that it is not windows.
if gnu/linux became as  dominant on the desktop as windows, there would be a greater incentive to break  that security – and a bigger knock-on effect when it was broken.
steve ballmer opens a 'pre-owned furniture' store with chairs that have been thrown only once?
this is 1.0 beta not 2.4.1 version i really appreciate an effort but result is not there do not like ms same as you do but buddy they have something that works well with minumum effort to learn product you can make any claim you want.
when he got about 150 pages done, word corrupted his document.
it's fine for business letters, but if you have to create a larger doc, it's just no good.
some things work well in windows, and others are a nightmare, hence it's more pragmatic to be open to alternatives.
again word corrupted it.
i very much like your unobtrusive attention to details.
the writers in my department all used pagemaker or framemaker.
i'll keep that list handy for future reference....
especially the note that the desktop space is ms's to lose which seems to be the case.
steve ballmer becomes the spokesman for the hair club for men?
it's not linux itself that captures our imagination, it's open source surely?
i'm also disappointed with the deterioration of the ui in word.
you know i've studied for this question for a long time.
a decision made solely on the ground of technical merits.
i would like to suggest that the free software world should start looking  at things from a different perspective – not how many percentage points  gnu/linux gains on the desktop, but how many microsoft is losing to *all* of  the alternatives to windows.
this is where prejudices start.
as a computer journalist for the last 25 years, i've received a lot of review copies of software.
the cloud will continue to play a role but it will be limited to certain situations - a) offsite storage where the costs are less than say a physical service like iron mountain.
perhaps you don't know what you are talking about and you are just trying to kick up some dust so others can't see clearly?
this included windows nt 3.5, windows 2000, microsoft office and many, many more.
moreover, if the idea proves popular, it's not hard to imagine most pc manufacturers following suit in order to match dell's move, ensuring that many more people experience the fact that it is possible to use a pc without using windows.
first, it was announced thatasus motherboards would be offering the feature, and thenasus notebooks.
john knight ...for the kind words - much appreciated.
one of the best proofs that free software is superior in all senses to proprietary software is having the maturity to recognise that the world of personal computing today is far more complicated, and far richer, than bill gates's original, monopolistic vision of “a (microsoft-based) computer on every desktop”.
what's makes this little spring-cleaning  exercise particularly apt as well as cathartic is that all of us - and not just  me - may finally be witnessing the end of the windows era.
both make the underlying operating  system moot.
far  better to promote heterogeneity, which is good for the software ecosystem, and  thus good for *all* users.
glyn moody writes about open source at opendotdotdot.
the price i pay at frys for a hard drive off the shelf is not that much different from what amazon pays for those drives by the box load.
the most obvious manifestation of this has been the utter fiasco that is  vista.
no, it's the fact that however microsoft tries to spin the numbers,  vista is simply not catching on.
far better to promote heterogeneity, which is good for the software ecosystem, and thus good for *all* users.
but that does not mean that windows will  maintain its dominance there, simply that the future is more complex than the  monoculture we have seen and suffered for nearly two decades.
pls answer these questions i shall really appreciate here is my opinion about oowriter http://answers.yahoo.com/question/index;_ylt=aof3fucw3uu3vyqqasxocvhty6i...
i would not be surprised to see that usage change till we see massive changes in price structures of data transport.
first, it was announced thatasus motherboards would be offering the  feature, and thenasus notebooks.
until yesterday, that is, when i finally threw out all those copies of os/2, lotus smartsuite, and my entire collection of microsoft software.
couple of factors are in the way -- 1)
this included windows nt 3.5, windows 2000,  microsoft office and many, many more.
strikingly, some of splashtop's keyadvantages are essentially reactions to two of windows' problems – speed and security: be online seconds after you turn on your pc.
a couple of notes concerning your choice of word-processor: many writers would even argue that a word-processor is a poor choice, and that document processor like latex is far better suited for the task.
(insert expectant pause here)
by the way, sorry for out topics.. just compare now with a few years ago....
fewer computers going into landfills?
and we're all saving lots of money and avoiding a great deal of irritation because of better stability and security.
midori is an offshoot of microsoft research’s singularity operating  system, the tools and libraries of which are completely managed code.
i find myself just nodding my head in agreement, as if you're putting into words many ideas a lot of us already know for fact.
for example when citing people, you can correct the wording if you place the fixes into square brackets.
i use a great deal of oss a great deal of the time.
that is, we may be looking at a complete dicontinuity in the windows line – a recognition that the creaking software architecture that has been around for over a decade now is simply too broken to be fixed.
but after "windohs", "m$" and all other derivatives it's impossible to take you seriously.
in a sure sign that the approach is entering  the mainstream, now dell hasjoined the club: dell’s latitude
keep dreaming boys linux will never move beyond linux type ppl unless linus exercises some power among developers - hippie mentality does not play with businesses and general population linux software programs are too buggy, not much tested before releasing final versions and program version is just a joke - developer writes 2 line code that does not work at all and calls it version 1.1 my experience - tried to substitute ms word with open office (i write books) - does not work - oowriter is a joke for any serious job linus needs to do some spring cleaning among developers (here i think mostly abt program version number) and allow some commercial opportunity otherwise there will be no significant move in linux market share - it is simply not good enough for general population and businesses i'm talking here about linux applications not kernel you write books omg that must be where you get them mad punctuation skillz im so impressed wth how claerly you express you're self wwwpirate u must b rich linus needs to do some spring cleaning among developers (here i think mostly abt program version number) and allow some commercial opportunity otherwise there will be no significant move in linux market share - it is simply not good enough for general population and businesses i'm talking here about linux applications not kernel
both make the underlying operating system moot.
free software has nothing to fear from a heterogeneous environment – indeed, mixing technologies almost forces open standards upon manufacturers if they want to provide full interoperability.
nobody wanted to use ms word.
"can we not only emulate, but can we blow right past apple?" quite correctly, shuttleworth sees apple as the one to beat these days.
there's something not spontaneous like windows.
why wait for windows to load when you could be surfing the web right away!
i always like to read your writings.
the more diversity in this environment that is picked up by the mainstream, the better.
otoh, i have had many frustrations with ms word.
guy, i think your observations are reasonable.
the traditional desktop experience is being further redefined through the  move to cloud computing solutions, which are frequently browser-based, and the  appearance of gnu/linux-based ultraportables, which also draw on net-based  solutions for much of their convenience.
there are a number of straws in the wind indicating that windows no longer  provides the benchmark for desktop computing.
over the years, i've almost completely migrated to linux and oss.
but i look forward to the day that the idea which takes majority is the best technical solution from the opinions of software developers and engineers, not marketing based on what the masses will find "easy" because of their comfort level with technology.
i don't believe a single word you say.
he went back to the last good backup and tried re-entering his day's work.
for many years, people in the free software world have dreamed of a day  when gnu/linux would replace windows on the desktop.
i'd like to extend a bit on what you mentioned.
i was the only one (i being the manager of the group) that worked with it.
run the numbers and you see 3-4 months of s3 for storage and you have paid for the cost of the drive onsite.
at the moment, there is a widespread if tacit assumption that desktop computing *is* windows.
midori is designed to run directly on native hardware (x86, x64 and arm), be hosted on the windows hyper-v hypervisor, or even be hosted by a windows process.
i'm glad you're able to work with it, but from my experience as a manager of a group of technical writers for 12+ years, ms word does not cut it.
against this background, then, we should be celebrating what looks  increasingly like the end of the windows era on the desktop, but not in the  naïve, and slightly selfish hope that it will usher in one purely based on  gnu/linux.
-- flr or flrichar is a superfan of linux journal, and goofs around in the lj irc channel ...for the kind words.
sd times has viewed internal microsoft documents that outline  midori’s proposed design, which is internet-centric and predicated on the  prevalence of connected systems.
anyway, it's still a good idea to have openoffice included in the software mix, because at times you actually come across microsoft office produced documents that can't be opened by current version of microsoft office (some updates have even broken fairly newly made documents).
home › blogs › glyn moody's blog › what comes after the windows era?
lower costs to business re software and hardware?
aug 15, 2008  by   glyn moody as a computer journalist for the last 25 years, i've received a lot of  review copies of software.
midori is  designed to run directly on native hardware (x86, x64 and arm), be hosted on  the windows hyper-v hypervisor, or even be hosted by a windows process.
what comes after the windohs earache ...er, urea ...ah, error ...ire?!
all of my work is an improvement on theirs since i'm more familiar with formating and layout.
i've also been using neooffice on the mac for the last 3 or 4 years.
as something of an obsessive magpie, i've tended to keep most of it, “for reference”.
surf the web safely, immune from the malware that targets windows.
so opinions differ, and your "truth" isn't the absolute truth about computing.
why wait for windows to load  when you could be surfing the web right away!
midori is an offshoot of microsoft research’s singularity operating system, the tools and libraries of which are completely managed code.
he has nothing to do with gnu, guis, or applications.
if i'm wrong, please submit some cogent arguments that indicate you know what you are talking about.
that is the key breakthrough.
i decided i preferred linux and it's corresponding tools because they were just better.
i loved your comments about having an heterogeneous environment in particular.
in fact, when i left my last job (an ms gold partner) part of it was due to the fact that i consider myself a "linux guy".
moreover, as many have pointed out, the low number of gnu/linux viruses is  only in part down to the latter's superior design.
so with the shuttleworth comment, you could have written: "...... lift the experience of the[gnu/]linux desktop from ......" this is what my inner rms wanted me to do, but equally it would have been slightly disrepectful to mr shuttleworth to be putting in that implicit square-bracketed criticism....
software applications that actually work with interfaces that make sense?
a sudden influx into the job market of one-time spammers?
until yesterday, that is, when i  finally threw out all those copies of os/2, lotus smartsuite, and my entire  collection of microsoft software.
bryce will be tough to replace, but i know there are good options available.
the only proprietary software that i still use (occasionally) is acrobat pro, bbedit, and bryce for my 3d stuff.
i'm glad you like the telepathic element.
strikingly, some of splashtop's keyadvantages are essentially reactions to two  of windows' problems – speed and security: be online seconds after you turn on your pc.
if gnu/linux became as dominant on the desktop as windows, there would be a greater incentive to break that security – and a bigger knock-on effect when it was broken.
ms's software is the weak product.
the company can try all themarketing tricks it  likes, but customers are voting with their wallets byopting for the  “downgrade” to xp: an official at pc maker hewlett-packard said the majority of the company's  business customers are downgrading new computers from windows vista to windows  xp -- raising questions about microsoft's vista sales figures.
that is, we may be looking at a complete dicontinuity in the windows line  – a recognition that the creaking software architecture that has been  around for over a decade now is simply too broken to be fixed.
even as a fellow lj author, i have to admit that i'm not necessarily a linux advocate, but an open source one.