people dont care about that hippy shit.
i can see why the average consumer just won't touch it.
the cpu was built different and therefore better ie faster than a pc with the same e8200.
but driver issues, game and application compatibility is holding it back.
every camera is supported i connected till this day (sony, fuji, canon, nikon, ... )
tom's hardware > news >  solutions > software > microsoft training: windows 7 better than linux microsoft training: windows 7 better than linux 6:51 pm - september  8, 2009 by marcus yam - source: tom's hardware us microsoft up to its tricks.
and with core i5 released today you can't even say it's a slow news day...
most of webcamera drivers are already installed in the 2.6 kernels, get a linux based chat protocoll and you get webcam.
i've tried windows, ubuntu, macosx(hackintosh) and have 4 os on my pc at one time.
the "security" thing gave me a laugh, and they also claimed it wasn't clear whether linux updated critical vulnerabilities quickly or not, or that it was harder to install programs and updates.
sh** the apple guy in the bestbuy store was trying to convince me of.
so is this really some big lie being spread?
linux has much better security and low over head.
there are several commercial distributions with full support.
windows does support video on all major im programs and linux doesn't (this isn't to say linux doesn't support it it just doesn't support all of them)
xp still won't find my brother wireless laser printer.
red hat enterprise linux and suse enterprise linux come to mind.
and i really thought the gui was a little better cause its pretty much stolen and modded from osx anyway.
i have a hard time believing that even the marketing peeps at ms have never heard of a package manager, so that much is just straight up bullshit.
it seems that microsoft is trying to fight off linux machines that are sold through best buy, which if any, are netbooks only.
while some points were valid, others were untrue.
of course trying to use that running program is gonna be another story.
with modern games these days flakey out of the box, do i want to wrap it into wine?
in terms of features and stability, openoffice.org still has a long way to go...
many companies across many industries partake in some form of evangelism (though some would call it propaganda) for its products.
anyway i find it hard to imagine any netbook running wow (much less any modern game)
well that and games keep me glued to windows more than linux.
also i lack knowledge of the other features but i would assume that limited on all that stuff is true.
we can't imagine that there  will be many customers who will wander into best buy without a clue of which  operating system he or she should go with – the new and shiny windows 7  or the mysterious, counter-culture linux.
as for the quip about different versions of linux just how many different versions of win7 do they plan to put out?
as for ubuntu, i've tried to like it and use it for a few months.
they aren't saying not supported for multimedia, just limited.
install with a single click, it's on ubuntu's multiverse, or get ubuntu tweak, and a single click will install it.
moving on to desktops cause i was like i cant build my own pc he was saying that an e8200 in the imac was better than an e8200 in a windows machine.
every other company does this type of marketing on a daily basis, i don't see how it becomes news when microsoft does it.
anything portable i connected, it worked perfect, even my cell phone carrier's usb modem that needed drivers for windows.
when i go to a popular download site such as download.com and search for software, the majority of the results are windows based.
linux isnt a single os linux isnt unified.
many companies across many industries partake in some form of evangelism  (though some would call it propaganda) for its products.
think again, linux is not a newbie o/s and most people aren't going to put the effort in all the training involved in setting up linux.
what is the goal of linux use ?
there is some programs that you can play lots of windows games with linux and btw microsoft used before linux for their own server because they don't even thrust their own win server security.
[/citation]again, wrong.
software compatibility.
i don't think wine is part of linux.
it's true that linux has limited software support but a good chunk just ain't true.supertrek32 09/09/2009 1:31 am
windows almost always requires a codec pack, and without 3rd-party software, it's not easy to tell which codecs are installed and which are not.
don't get me wrong, i still use it for my home nas, and i dual boot it on my desktop.
at work, it's my job to tweak things, make it work, utilize the stability of linux for uptime etc.
i still think windows is a better os for personal use and single user mode.
i'll probably get windows 7 and dual-boot for my next desktop build.
i skipped vista in favor of ubuntu, back when vista was having its toothing problems.
ubuntu was happy to install it on both my desktop and laptop without complaint.
bring it up to speed.
linux really does suck.
hence why it generally makes little sense to go out and buy a mac and rely entirely on mac osx (which is a modified beos, a type of unix).
who would even expect windows live essentials to work on linux?
wine is not linux support.
it seems that microsoft is trying to fight off linux machines that are sold  through best buy, which if any, are netbooks only.
i agree with one commenter that manufacturers are very slow or simply not updating drivers for their older devices.
it's a good thing it doesn't work on linux because it's a load of crapware anyway and there are much better gpl programs.
want native run games on linux?
i think this artikle is a propaganda, m$ paind tom$hardware to advertise m$ what a joke this artikle is lol don't believe it at all.
i told him if i went online i could get the dell studio 14z better spected with a higher resolution what i think is really important for under a grand.
im not anti linux im just anti bullshit.
i guess how many printer drivers are natively in windows.
bad idea i'll try to make this quick.
windows live essentials is a windows only option.
yes, linux works great for older hardware and at work where you use standardized workstation platforms (we use dell precisions) but newer proprietary ones like laptops?
as for authorised support, that's a load of rubbish.
and i might not big on their advertising.
video chat is also supported well on linux through skype and pidgin.
eventually i throw it out of my pc forever.
we can't imagine that there will be many customers who will wander into best buy without a clue of which operating system he or she should go with – the new and shiny windows 7 or the mysterious, counter-culture linux.
i don't see what the fuss is.
for everything you need to search the net... even for video drivers.
linux does not have a lack of support for games, the games have a lack of support for linux.
just so many things wrong with that training, ack, bull shit meter exploding (must be an iphone app).
and fiy linux does cost quite a bit to deploy on the cooperate scale yet people still do it due to the benefit.[/citation] please explain to the class why its better to use it for everyday use.
what a joke this artikle is lol don't believe it at all.
get all these open source freeware idiots off thier ass's and standardise thier software.
for my desktop, my only real excuse is gaming.
use of windows software ?
as for the windows live essentials bit, i can't imagine actually worrying about that when most default installs of linux have much better alternatives.
shadow703793 09/09/2009 2:10 am there is probably more software for linux than windows if you count the small projects.
search| microsoft up to its tricks.
he wanted me to buy a 13inch macbook pro over a dell studio 14z 700bucks.
wine is windows libraries on linux.
then what is emesene ?
there are a lot of forums where you can get help, a lot better than microsoft help for free.
you guys writing this article think that most windows/mac osx users would be able to install all the hardware and software they want?
it's hardly user friendly, looks crap and slower than a mac osx.
i totaly agree if linux wasnt free it would have likely been forgotten.
so your the one who is wrong and keeps clutching on to his free copy of ubuntu that you had to spend 5.99 to get in the mail linux is only for everyday use for hackers and the hardcore nerds which is why viruses are not popular on linux.
windows runs just about every game natively without emulation and linux doesn't.
why do you think most web servers run lamp?
i'd give microsoft the benefit on gaming, but media playback is a wash, especially with ms incorporating new drm in its operating systems starting with vista.
the problem is the reverse of what the slide says.
i have nothing against apple just that their computers aren't right for me personally
is your time that cheap?
where so i can take that loldeltatux 09/09/2009 1:19 am microsoft fuds about linux again, quite typical.
ever had a device that wouldn't work in any version of windows?
a couple weeks ago looking at laptops
i can't build and customize my rig if i go mac, and that's the only other platform adobe supports.
don't need to search the net for it.
citation] actualy its both..
basically this kind of thing highlights the old adage "buyer beware".randomizer 09/09/2009 5:09 am more people who think linux = ubuntu.randomizer 09/09/2009 5:11 am i love linux for work, it's ultra fast and very flexible in the right hands.
at least m$ isn't going on here claiming that win7 is a better solution than linux for use as a server o/s
and he came over and tried to convince me to buy a mac.
linux can support things from one distro and not support things from another.
09/09/2009 2:08 am this shows how much of a threat linux is to windows.
it may be included in some distributions but it afaik is not built into the kernel.
maybe that speaks more of brother than of microsoft, though.
this has more to do with the manufacturer for not providing good drivers or open sourcing the ones they have but it still sucks to deal with.
the coperate deplyment argument is irrelavent.
linux is also very good, but it's free (the ones i used) which means a lot of the software is very unstable.
i've never used a mac osx in my life, but after 1 week, i totally fall in love with it.
windows 7 for 10 dollars??
why make a game period for opengl now dont get me wrong i preffer opengl from the old days over directx.
for gaming, entertainment, day to day stuff windows is better, has more apps, more options, and usually not a big deal finding drivers or configuring some weird stuff.
i personally had two that had to go - my hp laserjet 1000 and surprisingly my microsft webcam cant be any worse than the bull
see here a mirror of the original thread.
though if my current ubuntut/xp laptop is any indication even windows 7 might not get much love.
[citation][nom]randomizer[/nom]linux does not have a lack of support for games, the games have a lack of support for linux.
i think this artikle is a propaganda, m$ paind tom$hardware to advertise m$ this is mainly just a marketing campaign, except it's not targeted at customers but at middle-men like best buy employees.
some of the best  evangelism starts at the retail level, where employees can 'inform' the buying  consumer while trying to sell a life-saving in-store warranty policy.
he moved on about the superiority of osx.
why even attempt to make a game for a platform that has 1 in probly 10,000 people using it.
ill even bet its a smaller number then that
one of the slides that microsoft used (above) is fairly misleading, as world of warcraft is supported in linux through wine.
the reasons are getting less and less to do so, and i'm sure people can get me alternatives on some level for all of the apps i use.
meaning that there are programs just not as many as for windows which more than likely is true.
at any reasonable speed.
in the end, the trouble is far more than what it's worth.
anyway i don't think anything microsoft over linux has done can top apples umm i am the best thing in world and will say anything to convice you of that tactic.
if so, use microsoft, not linux based os.
one of the slides that microsoft used (above) is fairly misleading, as  world of warcraft is supported in linux through wine.
and do something to get support other then "we are the tree hugging hippy retards that make better things for the consumer because we arent greedy corperate money mongering capitalists."
other than gaming, the only thing keeping me on windows is adobe creative suite.
as a web developer i'm pretty tied to adobe creative suite more than is good for me.
encountered materials from  microsoft that push certain superiorities that windows 7 possess over linux.
windows live messenger ?
a best buy employee, who happens to also be an overclock.net forum poster, recently partook in a microsoft expertzone training exercise (with the incentive to be able to buy windows 7 for $10)
because the only potential point of contention i can really see is the authorised support sections.
not really news anymore.
does anyone here use windows live essentials?rooket 09/09/2009 1:35 am screen shot looks true enough to me.
hardware support for windows is by far better than linux.
a best buy employee, who happens to also be an overclock.net forum poster,  recently partook in a microsoft expertzone training exercise (with the  incentive to be able to buy windows 7 for $10)
some of the best evangelism starts at the retail level, where employees can 'inform' the buying consumer while trying to sell a life-saving in-store warranty policy.
so i don't really see much point in why this article was written.
of course windows is better.
i know you can google for linux software.
most linux distro's use communities to provide support rather than a formal support regime and those that do exist have been pretty limited in my experience.
as for hardware, i've had more hardware troubles with windows than with linux.
linux isn't for games, but if your a game fan, then wine, cedega, crossover will do the trick for most games (wow works with cedega very good) authorized support for what ?
they use all kinds of os's no ones even heard of let alone suitable for the end user.
so while nothing is completely untrue it's not completely honest either and taking it as a global truth could be very misleading.
sure given enough time, i can tweak a majority of my games to work - but that's it, time.
my work desktop is as customizable as any, shinier and prettier than win7 with tons of usability and all my options are always available to me.
with ubuntu a single click, and jockey will install it without an extra click or whatever.
encountered materials from microsoft that push certain superiorities that windows 7 possess over linux.
for usability, the popular os wins (unfortunately), and i run vista at home for my laptop and desktop.
i told him the win 7 rc was running pretty good
but hell they cant even get any good options in that api anymore.
windows live essentials  are indeed a windows-only product, but there are many other free alternatives.
windows live essentials are indeed a windows-only product, but there are many other free alternatives.
it looks like it's a tricky use of context.
adding repositories could be more straightforward, but it's by no means "hard."
share: well it's true, dunno what microsoft said, but i definably believe myself that windows is better than linux (unless you're doing something linux worthy like a web server or some cluster or anything).
i could go on with this guy.
somewhere allong the way he went on to say that the cpu on windows ran at 20%-40% at idle and on osx it ran at 0%.
it's getting closer and closer.pacostrano 09/09/2009 2:09 am is it me or maybe people does not know how to use linux...
then there is office where microsoft office is used by 99% of the work and education world and with openoffice being free its not 100% reliable when it comes with compatibility.
see here a  mirror of the original thread.
i've tried to wine it, but too many small annoyances really.
he also tried to convince me that having 2 gb of ddr3 would beat 4gb of ddr2 hands down.
yes you can just run so many bloated windows applications on that netbook.
the only way they will get the support is to push for it not expect people to give a damn about them cuz they are "open source" or "better".
the only reason linux is still afloat is because it is free.knight9413
in ubuntu at least (probably one of the more media-friendly distros) just add medibuntu repositories, and you're good to go.
yeah i see your point there.
everyday you get roadblocks from webpages that use windows media player for links to videos, for internet when you have to install plugins you have to run complex scripts which can take god knows how long vs windows where it is just one install package.