i think it makes a big difference.
however, a chapter on the overall performance of windows  vista requires more dedication.
12:35 pm i think vista are laggy softwareanonymous 09/25/2008 9:02 am vulcan64, i recomment u to return to teh old and good and really fast dos.
i had trouble with importing mail into windows mail, trouble finding other computers on the network via \\machinename\ but \\192.168.x.x\ would work, wtf?
switch to mac or linux.
although the main windows vista core has undergone lot of modifications,  many of your applications will work with vista.
it manages to use about 4 to 5 times as much ram as xp.
we put together a high-end test system and performed a comprehensive benchmark session both with windows xp professional and with windows vista enterprise to see if there are differences.
you won't benefit at all from superfetching.
microsoft's goal was to create balanced performance by removing  delays in everyday work.
we are sure that mainstream users will appreciate the improved usability of  windows vista, and the average office/multimedia user will likely never notice  the lack of opengl.
anyways, tried ubuntu, and i think its great.
i guess and go to user accounts in control panel to disable (uac) user account control!!!mousemonkey 12/30/2010 2:06 pm this topic has been closed by mousemonkey
i bought vista business n edition and i found it faster sleek and used my old computers full speed a system specs: 2.93 ghz celeron d 2006 512mb of ddr3 ram ati radeon graphics 2009 x fire 512 mb and it works 65% better than it used too and my new laptop it is the same except new (not sys specs)
there are some types of software that you should only use if they have been specifically designed for windows vista: firewalls, anti-spyware and anti-virus software needs to be vista-ready.
will applications execute equally quickly, or will they  even run slower due to the new features and the aeroglass interface?
that's quintuple the memory!
you would love it lmao people are you serious?
lol wait am i describing a console...cmnetworx 11/17/2008 9:30 am now would be a good time to try an alternative os.
this is hardly an achievement, considering.
i love it its the hard ware
this means that more  application data should be actively cached into all available memory  (superfetch), whether that is physical ram or a usb flash memory device  (readyboost).
join our discussion on this topic i can't tell if you were using 32 bit or 64 bit vista?
7:59 am they were using 32 bit versionanonymous 09/11/2008 9:41 am i herd that vista has been so bad in a number of different ways that microsoft have decided to give up all hope and have started building a new operating system witch will scrap vista once on the market, is there any truth in this?anonymous 09/12/2008 10:44 pm @crazyjew: they are in fact making a new windows (codenamed "vienna") but this is just a scheduled release - they can't make money if don't make a new os every few years!
the popular audio player winamp 5.32 throws up an error at startup, yet it works properly.
anonymous 10/03/2008 11:48 pm can you do benchmark tests, with service pack 1, with actually address the issue of slow file operations.
but teh os didn't consumed almost any hw resources.
i gave up vista after a month or so of usage: a day it took almost 20 minutes to boot and start vmware server and a virtual machine on a 2gbram/duo core2 laptop: a collegue with a single core,1gb older laptop and gentoo linux booted and started 2 istances of the same vm in less than 5 minutes!!!campdude 11/17/2008 3:50 am i want my games to use the ram.
there is, however, no  guarantee.
in particular, two things require an in-depth  analysis: basic windows vista performance how does windows vista perform  compared to windows xp?
that is exacly what happened to me...
i tried ubuntu due to my disliking of vista..
windows vista performance enhancements with superfetch and  readyboost, windows vista introduces two features to make use of today's  technology in order to improve the user experience.
process scheduling and thread pooling have been improved in vista; a  deadlock protection mechanism and hardware partitioning for virtualization  support were added, together with many more features.
problems with vnc programs, uac (what a nightmare), and programs hanging and an inability to get up the task manager.. wtf?!
i am running a amd6 x2 5600+ with 3gig ddr2 800mhz ram and a nvidia 8600gt.
lots of video-related software such as divx could no longer be installed; new versions are required.
on xp service pack 2 every thing run 110% without any problems.
oh yeah, you can run it under windows if you'd like also.. or dual boot and keep both windows and ubuntu..jeep11 01/01/2009 2:10 am i would love to see a follow-up to this at a later date to compare vista to the upcoming windows 7.
no f..ing graphics, no mouse, no sound, no multitasking, no security, nothing fancy.
synthetics, continued 11.
operating system should use nothing...
process scheduling and thread pooling have been improved in vista; a deadlock protection mechanism and hardware partitioning for virtualization support were added, together with many more features.
you're going to wait for windows to come out with a new os??
barry took the new operating system and its look & feel with a grain of salt, while darren was disappointed because opengl support was dropped along the way, meaning that windows vista currently offers horrible performance for graphics applications utilizing the open graphics library.
we tried lots of different programs under windows vista enterprise, and came up with a list of software that definitely works.
started using it 8+ months ago and never looked back.
vista, actually uses all spare memory for caching, unlike xp which didn't and thus you had unused ram, i would rather have memory been used rather idle.
we put together a  high-end test system and performed a comprehensive benchmark session both with  windows xp professional and with windows vista enterprise to see if there are  differences.
what if your usage pattern varies much?
for example, adobe photoshop takes care of creating a temporary work file every time it launches - vista has no access to this process and cannot speed it up.
quake iv can still be executed, but the installation program did not work.
although the main windows vista core has undergone lot of modifications, many of your applications will work with vista.
in particular, two things require an in-depth analysis: this article deals with basic application execution under windows vista enterprise, which is representative of the other editions.
you should definitely try any essential software on windows before  you upgrade.
applications that run their own memory management won't benefit from vista's superfetch function.
well of course "vista feel[s] faster and smoother".
we are sure that mainstream users will appreciate the improved usability of windows vista, and the average office/multimedia user will likely never notice the lack of opengl.
i expect little difference, but it would be great info to know.wellivea1 09/24/2009 11:06 pm
at least they aren't just trying to scam everyone out of their money, they deliver results and even have better support options.
there is, however, no guarantee.
search| our windows vista coverage began with a hands-on diary by mobilityguru's barry gerber, followed by an assessment of gameplay under windows vista by graphics presidente darren polkowski, as well as a completefeature rundown of vista.
barry took the new operating system and its look & feel with a grain  of salt, while darren was disappointed because opengl support was dropped along  the way, meaning that windows vista currently offers horrible performance for  graphics applications utilizing the open graphics library.
fetching applications is good, so you end up using your ram (if i have 4gb ram is because i want to use them) but the drawback is that booting and starting rarely used apps became *slow as hell*, and also waking up from standby because the os must read out from disk lots of useless memory.
i always thought linux would be hard, and a few years ago it was, but now its not too shabby..
we tried lots of different programs under windows vista enterprise, and  came up with a list of software that definitely works.
and indeed, we found that there are some... software and vista
whatever brainwashed opinions you have that windows is a good brand, it's not true.. please open your eyes and get over your microsoft "crush" and see them for who they are.
and indeed, we found that there are some...
and i have rund vista 32bit and 64bit service pack 1 and i can say vista sucks i have problems with some of my software(updated for vista) and games don't run or they run but very crappy.
this article deals with basic application execution under windows vista  enterprise, which is representative of the other editions.
in other cases there were some issues.
4 gigs of ram... load the entire game world read nothing off the harddrive...
you should definitely try any essential software on windows before you upgrade.
however, a chapter on the overall performance of windows vista requires more dedication.
power consumption tests our windows vista coverage began with a hands-on diary by mobilityguru's  barry gerber, followed by an assessment of gameplay under windows vista by  graphics presidente darren polkowski, as well as a completefeature rundown of  vista.
we found vista updates for the futuremark benchmark programs 3dmark and pcmark, as well as the popular data compression tool winrar.
so i say stick to xp for now and please dont run service pack 3 there is something wrong with it, i don't know what but me and some others have notice some problems with it(performance and networking).salem80 09/15/2008