reply with quote looks nice and runs well, just not everyones cup of tea.
both linux  and windows come in desktop and server editions.
the thing in linux's favor is it runs on both pc & mac  whereas pc & mac software wont run on each other due to constraints put on  there respective operating systems by there manufacturer.
the best thing anyone new to linux can do is  start to familiarize themselves with the terminal, as that is where - as your  experience grows you'll find you'll end up spending 99.5% of your time.
after all, no one knows everything and you may have the answer that someone needs.
it is based on unix, very stable, very secure.
linux is simple, but it takes genius to understand the simplicity.
the thing in linux's favor is it runs on both pc & mac whereas pc & mac software wont run on each other due to constraints put on there respective operating systems by there manufacturer.
reply with quotereply with quote pc experience: some experience operating system: ubuntu/xp i am running 9.10 on my other laptop as the only os.
don't worry - it's quick and easy and once you have registered you will have instant access to the entire forum.
we are all members helping other members.
to improve  your overall experience of linux i advocate trying out all the different types  of desktop, there are a fair few to choose from, some offering more speed than  others, others being maybe a bit slower but more functional in terms of  graphics and point and click.
reply with quote operating system: debian & ubuntu linux is customizable in a way that windows is not.
reply with quote operating system: ubuntu/xp i am running 9.10 on my other laptop as the only os.
licencing issues and office/microsoft  updates are also contributing to this, making using microsoft, become painful  and almost pointless for day to day stuff.
making a mistake in windows usually gives you an error  message, however making a mistake on linux can lead to the dreaded kernel panic  or worse.
reply with quote licencing issues and office/microsoft updates are also contributing to this, making using microsoft, become painful and almost pointless for day to day stuff.
for example, the task bar may default to being on the top or the bottom.
all the linux distributions released around the same time frame will use the same kernel (the guts of the operating system).
reply with quote get help with computer problems.
but yeah, os x and windows better watch their backs.
pc experience: some experience operating system: windows vista - ultimate
tbh i have just also installed kubunto, a linux based os, this  mainly because of the fact that google is developing a linux based os, and with  the increasing popularity of linux, and the growing availability of  applications, i can see in the near futur linux becoming a serious contender to  windows, especially with the current cost of windows compared to linux.
there are software hacks you can do to run those system on not native hardware but why bother when linux presents a far easier solution as it runs on both.
windows has something akin to 200 or so  commands that you can learn and pass to the dos command prompt whereas linux  has so many commands and functions you could spend your lifetime reading and  still find yourself not having covered every subject.
linux is simple, but it takes genius to understand the  simplicity.
i think linux will rule over all os in future cause its open source and continuously working to make better and better their distributions.. now they have"wine" which can run all windows software on linux so its near that people ll migrate towards linux, and save their money paying for windows with no security ....
for one, the  user interface, while similar in concept, varies in detail from distribution to  distribution.
i always remember how much i dislike windows whenever i use it.
dell even makes several non-netbooks that run ubuntu now.
join free pc helphere donations are welcome.
worth a look for all those computer geeks out there - you know who you are pc-bsd - home pc experience: pc guru operating system: windows 7 all flavours , linux - various distros am gonna download that lol
this will probably improve with time, but currently linux works best with linux-programs and windows with windows-programs.
they differ in the add-on software provided,  gui, install process, price, documentation and technical support.
pc experience: >+_ operating system: windows 7 ultimate 64b tbh i have just also installed kubunto, a linux based os, this mainly because of the fact that google is developing a linux based os, and with the increasing popularity of linux, and the growing availability of applications, i can see in the near futur linux becoming a serious contender to windows, especially with the current cost of windows compared to linux.
the  other .5 will probably be spent surfing on the internet.
>git d-(++) s: a--- c++>$ ul>+++ p+ l+>+++ e?
however most  developers, hackers, gurus will have both laying around, heck some of them may  even have a copy of reactos which is a complete re-write of the windows source  code by a group of enthusiasts who wanted something better than the bloated  chunky api coded by redmond.
also, there are many special purpose versions of linux above and beyond the full blown distributions.
linux also help you to enhance the look of your os graphically and openoffice doesn't allow you to miss ms office even for a little while.
windows has something akin to 200 or so commands that you can learn and pass to the dos command prompt whereas linux has so many commands and functions you could spend your lifetime reading and still find yourself not having covered every subject.
(i think i still have a copy of the old 2.5beta kernel laying around on cd somewhere!)
after years of use, i conclude with any windows operating system, it becomes slower over time, i notice that some virus checkers/firewalls are making this even more painful.
reply with quote pc experience: pc guru operating system: windows vista - ultimate i like linux because all the programs/services have plain config files and command line ability to do things great when used with cron etc signature removed by administratorreply with quote pc experience: some experience operating system: windows vista - ultimate linux has been the talk of hte town in the recent times and is bound to get more and more popular because of its usability, you can model the os to behave the way you want it to.
to improve your overall experience of linux i advocate trying out all the different types of desktop, there are a fair few to choose from, some offering more speed than others, others being maybe a bit slower but more functional in terms of graphics and point and click.
please return here whereyou may be able to help someone else.
reply with quote free pc help tech member join date operating system: windows 7 ultimate 64b
the biggest crutch against linux is it is not easy to get to grips with if your not used to using it, it's possible to bork or kill your own machine from installing the wrong package from an on-line repository or archive.
signature removedreply with quote pc experience: very experienced operating system: win7 ultimate on desktop, xubuntu on laptop jimmytazz is right about the community effort that goes into improving linux-based os'es, rather than the profit that microsoft and apple is expecting.
free pc help is a rapidly growing community that offers free computer support for all users, all ages, worldwide.
it also provides a better protection than the windows.
the flavors of linux are referred to as distributions (often shortened to "distros").
there are software  hacks you can do to run those system on not native hardware but why bother when  linux presents a far easier solution as it runs on both.
ps++ pe-@ y?reply with quote pgp-(+) t+ 5++ x?(x) r+(++
the best thing anyone new to linux can do is start to familiarize themselves with the terminal, as that is where - as your experience grows you'll find you'll end up spending 99.5% of your time.
unfortunately though as i say i have just installed it and basically not really spent more than a couple of hours playing with it, so can't really say as yet if i think it will replace windows on my system just yet.
reply with quote pc experience: pc guru operating system: debian & ubuntu linux is customizable in a way that windows is not.
they differ in the add-on software provided, gui, install process, price, documentation and technical support.
i like it a lot, it seems so much simpler than windows, and yet there is a lot of strength for web browsing, media, and some games here and there.
for example, the task bar may default to being on the top or the  bottom.
it feels so cluttered once your used  to ubuntu.
i wont be switching back unless there are apps that wont run in ubuntu.
linux used to be all shell driven, meaning it used to be all command line, x-windows or x11 only came along later.
dell even makes  several non-netbooks that run ubuntu now.
i wont be  switching back unless there are apps that wont run in ubuntu.
there are even better audio and video players in linux, thus linux is a complete package of a good os.reply with quote pc experience: shredded the teeshirt......
i have recently switched  to (free) ubuntu and am pleasantly surprised, the more i use this and its free  apps (compatable office and email etc) the less i use ms, i also noted that  dual booting i can always switch back if needed, i like the way ubuntu imports  your settings into its operating system, and the way you can still view files  in your microsoft partition when you use dual boot.
i like it a  lot, it seems so much simpler than windows, and yet there is a lot of strength  for web browsing, media, and some games here and there.
all the linux  distributions released around the same time frame will use the same kernel (the  guts of the operating system).
for one, the user interface, while similar in concept, varies in detail from distribution to distribution.
i always remember how  much i dislike windows whenever i use it.
linux used  to be all shell driven, meaning it used to be all command line, x-windows or  x11 only came along later.
both linux and windows come in desktop and server editions.
also, there are many special purpose versions of linux above and beyond  the full blown distributions.
making a mistake in windows usually gives you an error message, however making a mistake on linux can lead to the dreaded kernel panic or worse.
the biggest crutch against linux is it  is not easy to get to grips with if your not used to using it, it's possible to  bork or kill your own machine from installing the wrong package from an on-line  repository or archive.
read here pc experience: beginner operating system: other - linux based i am also using both os on my system windows xp with ubuntu 10.10....
(i think i still have a copy of the old 2.5beta  kernel laying around on cd somewhere!)
this leaves a lot of old-school games outside, and a lot of other games doesn't work at all, or works a bit slow.
it feels so cluttered once your used to ubuntu.
the other .5 will probably be spent surfing on the internet.
i have recently switched to (free) ubuntu and am pleasantly surprised, the more i use this and its free apps (compatable office and email etc) the less i use ms, i also noted that dual booting i can always switch back if needed, i like the way ubuntu imports your settings into its operating system, and the way you can still view files in your microsoft partition when you use dual boot.
windows vista - ultimate microsoft vs ubuntu (linux)
when microsoft was dominating the market with windows98se and nt4 linux was very much still in its infancy with most people oblivious to it's existence.
the flavors of linux are referred to as  distributions (often shortened to "distros").
after years of use, i conclude with any windows operating system,  it becomes slower over time, i notice that some virus checkers/firewalls are  making this even more painful.
in order to start asking questions or contribute on someone else's post you will first need to register.
however, wine isn't able to run "all" windows software, as it doesn't support programs written for the old dos-based windows versions.
operating system: osx another alternative i have tried recently is pc-bsd 8.0.
unfortunately though as i say i have just installed it and basically not  really spent more than a couple of hours playing with it, so can't really say  as yet if i think it will replace windows on my system just yet.
however most developers, hackers, gurus will have both laying around, heck some of them may even have a copy of reactos which is a complete re-write of the windows source code by a group of enthusiasts who wanted something better than the bloated chunky api coded by redmond.
when microsoft was dominating the market with  windows98se and nt4 linux was very much still in its infancy with most people  oblivious to it's existence.