there are not unified linux network management tools: nothing like microsoft mmc ms windows has the more mature rapid deployment tools (eg: norton ghost) linux is way too complicated comment/conclusion: we are still suffering a knowledge gap.
conclusion: both sides of the opinion gap believe that their preferred platform costs least to maintain none offered any concrete proof.
he mentioned that ms dial-up networking  issues were the singularly most frequent center of attention because windows  users tamper with their settings all the time.
i trust ms office tools no-one gets fired for buying ms windows open source means: conclusion: there is a big gap in the area of 'trust' , some of which is due to lack of exposure and lack of familiarity.
trust performance what follows is a review of key feedback items that  demonstrates the each issue.
i also asked the pro-ie6 respondent how compatible his ie5.5 and ie5 systems were with ie6 and he could not see the point of my question.
applications work faster and more smoothly than ms windows applications linux applications are better for the job the linux desktop offers more choices linux is more productive applications works faster and smoother linux applications and tools are better for the job linux desktop has more choices comment: the comment of  abuse of ms windows users is a foolish jab that alienates and does nothing to  bridge the credibility gap!
ms windows users are stupid linux is a more productive platform ms windows is not a single platform 9x/me/xp home,
linux can be trusted anyone who buys windows should get fired, windows is not reliable, can't trust it!
linux users do not know how to use dial-up  networking ms windows networks can not be browsed from linux workstations linux is immature will cause high costs in the long run
openoffice / staroffice can comfortably replace ms office;  wordperfect 8 for linux can replace ms office microsoft have increased the  licensing costs for ms windows, they will do it again!
conclusion: linux does not work well with devices that are more or less specific to ms windows (surprise!)
the  linux development environment is free and very powerful (4 mentions) -- no  vendor lock-in (2 mentions) all needed business applications are available  for linux corel photodraw for linux is free (1 mention
there are no open source alternatives to ms access ms visual studio is much better than any open source ide (2 mentions) --
linux has no obscure protocols/services makes it easier to lock down linux  us not vulnerable to worms
we can never be certain which microsoft patches need to be installed: linux offers great interoperabilitylinux offers great
also, it seems obvious to me that with win4lin and vmware one has to pay for this software as well as pay for the ms windows license so why not just run ms windows on the users' pc?
comment: the is a native linux/unix tool that can replace ms  access.
- why go through the pain of installing something else?
it seems that linux companies have not managed to get this message across at all.
the cost of acquisition of a  complete linux based solution (server) is much lower than an equivalent  microsoft windows solution.
nt/2000/.xp pro are all different platforms applications work faster and more smoothly than ms windows applicationsapplications work faster and more smoothly than ms windows applications - microsoft service packs punch further holes in the single platform proposition - try using a windows 95 video driver under windows 2000!
(1  mention) use of a crm application that requires ms sql, so it is cheaper to  have just one platform.
freedom from operating system license fees (server) no client access license fees (also called the microsoft tax by two respondents) (fees levied to access servers)
- 1 year in the making and no small task - there is no linux equivalent!
no vendor 'lock-in' i have no idea who to call for linux help, we have no trained staff to support linux linux desktop interfaces are confusing (kde/gnome/etc) i could get fired if linux failsi could get fired if linux fails - don't feel comfortable with adding to menus - had past bad experience with setting up menus
conclusion: each respondent answered from their own experiences and with their own specific biases.
ziff davis enterprise home | contact us | advertise | link to us | reprints | magazine subscriptions | newsletters tech rss feeds | roi calculators | tech podcasts | tech video | vars | channel news baseline | careers | channel insider | cio insight | desktoplinux | deviceforge | devsource | eseminars | eweek | enterprise network security | linuxdevices | linux watch | microsoft watch | mid-market | networking | pdf zone | publish | security it hub | strategic partner | web buyer's guide | windows for devices developer shed |
every linux distribution is it's own os - poor backwards compatibility between updates openoffice loses ms word document formatting windows applications allow the user to be more task focused than linux applications - no need to do software programming to make it work (1 mention) - windows applications are the best for the job - ms windows has one totally consistent interface
conclusion: clearly, the anti-linux sentiment is reflective of pro-linux opinions that  alienated the pro-windows people.
reputation: linux is  the fastest growing os platform linux is cool!
comment: the is a native linux/unix tool that can replace ms access.
i trust openoffice microsoft are too dominant open source means: pro-windows perceptions:pro-windows perceptions: - no restrictions ever!
he claimed that a single auto-install profile for ms windows xp professional roll-out could meet the needs of all workstations and that he was more familiar with rolling out ms windows than linux.
the cost of acquisition of a complete linux based solution (server) is much lower than an equivalent microsoft windows solution.
and that means that the companies that produce them are going to miss out on purchase decisions made by the growing number of pro-linux buyers.
- gdi printers - winmodems - video cards - pcmcia cards software support: pro-linux perceptions: community help is fast and free one can use vnc to support both linux and ms windows network clients linux software is easier to keep up to date linux has the best remote administration tools (like rsh, ssh, webmin)linux has the best remote administration tools (like rsh, ssh, webmin)
why does this fact escape the pro-linux opinions?
also, no respondents  were aware that there is an odbc driver for postgresql and mysql that will  allow ms access and ms excel to use an open source sql back-end system.
conclusion: both sides of the opinion gap believe that their preferred platform costs  least to maintain none offered any concrete proof.
conclusion: clearly, the anti-linux sentiment is reflective of pro-linux opinions that alienated the pro-windows people.
this interview was the perfect vehicle to reinforce the message that linux is  the best means of reducing the cost of ownership of an it infrastructure.
for 1,000's of desktop installations) comment: the linux is daunting comment came from an administrator who had not used linux in over 2 years.
microsoft have been focusing on solving the  security issues and will release a hardened windows soon 1 year in the making and no small task
(1 mention) windows applications are the best for the job ms windows has one totally consistent interface
hardware support: pro-linux perceptions: linux has comprehensive support for: hp, lexmark and epson offer great linux printing solutionshp, lexmark and epson offer great linux printing solutions - video controllers - usb (plug and play) - modems - mice - monitors and everything pro-windows perceptions: linux does not support conclusion: linux does not work well with devices that are more or less specific to ms windows (surprise!)
the observations were not based on any actual comparison with ms sql server.
dev shed | asp free | dev articles | dev hardware | seo chat | tutorialized | scripts | code walkers | web hosters | dev mechanic | dev archives | igrep
freedom from operating system license fees (server) no client access license fees (also called the microsoft tax by two  respondents) (fees levied to access servers)
no-one likes to be told that they have made the 'wrong' decision.
no money for resellers and that means no resellers performance: pro-linux perceptions: apache is faster than iis samba rocks!
pro-windows perceptions: ms windows is the most used os platform isps do not support linux (pacbell  mentioned directly)
applications: pro-linux perceptions: the linux graphical interface is just as easy to use as ms windows linux uses industry standards compliant protocols -- industry standard file formats also
microsoft have been focusing on solving the security issues and will release a hardened windows soon conclusion: each respondent answered from their own experiences and with their own specific biases.
there are other open source front end tools that  allow replacement of ms access as well as ms sql server.
conclusion: there is a big gap in the area of 'trust' , some of which is due to lack of exposure and lack of familiarity.
this  message is thus not to be!
there are no  financial applications for linux (myob and quicken were mentioned: the issue  raised was the ability to export data to users of these two applications.
conclusion: fear and lack of familiarity are the key issues among ms windows users, excessive confidence among linux users is just as much a barrier to convincing ms windows devotees to at least become more familiar with linux.
pro-windows respondents saw ms exchange as synonymous with internet email mircosoft have done a good job with their messaging here!
pro-windows perceptions: familiarity is microsoft's key score card item!
additionally, ms windows specialists knew only of telnet and hated it!
the slammer worm killed many networks in january because ms sql is too  hard to secure windows security breaches are on the increase microsoft shipped a faulty nt4 patch that took my network down in december 2002
security: pro-linux perceptions: there is no such thing as a linux virus, all viruses are just programs!
both sides come from a my world is best perspective and solve the same task problem a different way.
interoperability - too many to choose from - don't trust ms patches because of many instances of downtime caused by faulty patches pro-windows perceptions: there are very few linux applications linux printing stinkslinux printing stinks -
fear of exposure is the key factor here.
linux is stable with good uptime ms word is big and clumsy comment: the assertion regarding postgresql and mysql referred to use of an sql server for web applications.
hardware support: linux has comprehensive support for: video controllers
cost: the economic environment is tough and it budgets are being cut linux is  free (10 mentions)
also, not one respondent had seen the libsmbclient library capabilities from kde konqueror that allows smb network browsing.
conclusion: more evidence of a knowledge gap, although the criticism of difficulty of linux deployment seems like an informed comment.
pgaccess has an interface to sql data tables, forms, reports, views, schema  manipulation, stored procedures and scripts, as well as user management  capabilities.
there are lots of reputable 3rd party companies that produce (anti-)virus software.
ms sql is the best, it is fast and easy to configure windows 2000 server supports bigger files old hardware is unreliable and should not be used linux has no answer for ms terminal server windows 2000 server is not the faster file and print server, but it is 100% compatible!
conclusion: each  respondent answered from their own experiences and with their own specific  biases.
pro-windows perceptions: microsoft funded idc  report that claims that the linux tco - 13% higher than an equivalent ms  windows solution (3 mentions) linux requires on-site techies to keep  systems running (2 mentions)
comment: i flew seated next to the ceo of an isp who told me his whole  company runs on linux, that his company never had a problem with a linux user  and that over 95% of support staff time is taken up helping ms windows users to  do things that are very simple to do!
conclusion: respondents from both sides admitted to not liking to deal with installation, no matter how easy it might seem.
cost: pro-linux perceptions: the economic environment is tough and it budgets are being cut linux is free (10 mentions)
try using a windows 95 video driver under windows 2000!
the irc trojan iis worm just can not happen with linux
there are other open source front end tools that allow replacement of ms access as well as ms sql server.
pro-windows perceptions: microsoft funded idc report that claims that the linux tco - 13% higher than an equivalent ms windows solution (3 mentions) linux requires on-site techies to keep systems running (2 mentions) linux requires on-site development staff or contractors to fix serious bugs and to apply kernel patches (3 mentions) ultimately linux using sites need to out-source support since a company can not rely on internal staff to remain current on all issues ms powerpoint is the best presentation tool (everyone uses it) (10 mentions)
) if a user must  use an ms windows application is can be run on linux: using the wine application (2 mentions) using win4lin (3 mentions)
linux users are know-it-alls (softened form of real  term used)
postgresql/mysql are better and faster one can comfortably use older hardware with linux (it is fast and lesser hardware)
so why throw it away?
no-one likes to be told that they have made  the 'wrong' decision.
both sides come from a my  world is best perspective and solve the same task problem a different way.
it is possible to build a whole application in pgaccess, just as  can be done with ms access.
the last comment came from a respondent who had tried to automate the roll-out of red hat linux but complained that 'kick-start' preparations for his 3000 plus workstations would be too time consuming.
pro-windows respondents saw ms exchange as  synonymous with internet email mircosoft have done a good job with their  messaging here!
while there is a knowledge gap here, responses ring of i prefer what i know best trust: pro-linux perceptions: linux is based on the same open source software that powers the internet i know
windows 2000 supports files of up to 4terabytes, linux 2.4.x with the xfs or jfs file systems support much larger files than ms windows 2000, but i am not aware of anyone who has hit either limits for ms windows 2000 or for recent linux implementations (samba is limited by the file system on which it runs).
openoffice / staroffice can comfortably replace ms office; wordperfect 8 for linux can replace ms office microsoft have increased the licensing costs for ms windows, they will do it again!
linux requires on-site development staff or  contractors to fix serious bugs and to apply kernel patches (3 mentions) ultimately linux using sites need to out-source support since a company can not  rely on internal staff to remain current on all issues ms powerpoint is the  best presentation tool (everyone uses it) (10 mentions)
linux has no obscure protocols/services makes it easier to lock down linux us not vulnerable to worms windows security breaches are on the increasewindows security breaches are on the increase - the irc trojan iis worm just can not happen with linux - the slammer worm killed many networks in january because ms sql is too hard to secure microsoft shipped a faulty nt4 patch that took my network down in december 2002
they thus represent a bias and not an evaluation!
linux users do not know how to use dial-up networking ms windows networks can not be browsed from linux workstations linux is immature will cause high costs in the long run
comments: ximian evolution looks and works just like ms outlook but no pro-windows respondent knew of this tool.
when i mentioned industry standards compliance he replied that i should just accept the fact that what everyone uses is the standard.
there are very few linux applications we can not do without ms outlook client you can not buy ms exchange server for linux linux is not compatible with the internet explorer 6 standard can't buy a decent live email backup client for linux like the one we  bought for outlook
there are many free office automation solution choices (12  mentions) --
there are many free office automation solution choices (12 mentions) --
every linux distribution is it's own os - poor backwards  compatibility between updates openoffice loses ms word document formatting windows applications allow the user to be more task focused than linux  applications no need to do software programming to make it work
pgaccess has an interface to sql data tables, forms, reports, views, schema manipulation, stored procedures and scripts, as well as user management capabilities.
we can not find anyone who knows how to do things that are simple in ms windowswe can not find anyone who knows how to do things that are simple in ms windows - vendors can not make any money from linux users - some linux vendors do not support linux - can't buy help desk support contract for linux
using vmware (4 mentions) comment: corel photodraw appears to be a discontinued commercial product and it is not  free.
it is possible to build a whole application in pgaccess, just as can be done with ms access.
comment: corel photodraw appears to be a discontinued commercial product and it is not free.
ms  windows has a single sign-on facility that is much more secure than anything  linux has to offer
ms windows requires on-site  support staff.
but both platforms clearly offer a usable choice of alternatives.
nt/2000/.xp pro are all different platforms microsoft service packs punch further holes in the single platform  proposition
the assertion that windows 2000 server supports larger files was based on the understanding that linux has a 2gb file size limit.
linux ide tools are back in the dark ages!
ease of installation: pro-linux perceptions: linux gui installers are easier to use than ms windows xp's installation process linux mass roll-out is easier (requires fewer staff) and is less costly than windows xp linux installation is a once only affair pro-windows perceptions: linux means i have to get rid of all current software and deploy all new stuff -- means i can not use my existing ms windows application servers nearly all new machines come pre-installed with windows everyone (users) know how to install ms windows software, with linux i'd need and army to install applicationseveryone (users) know how to install ms windows software, with linux i'd need and army to install applications -
there are no open  source alternatives to ms access ms visual studio is much better than any  open source ide (2 mentions) -- linux ide tools are back in the dark ages!
it is called pgaccess and is a front end to the postgresql sql server.
conclusion: opinions share no common ground.
also, not one respondent had seen the libsmbclient library capabilities from  kde konqueror that allows smb network browsing.
comments: ximian evolution looks and works just like ms outlook but no pro-windows  respondent knew of this tool.
the cost of linux support is much lower than a microsoft windows (nt4 / 2000) based solution.
ms windows has a single sign-on facility that is much more secure than anything linux has to offer
linux is more productivelinux is more productive - linux applications are better for the job - the linux desktop offers more choices comment: the comment of abuse of ms windows users is a foolish jab that alienates and does nothing to bridge the credibility gap!comment: the comment of abuse of ms windows users is a foolish jab that alienates and does nothing to bridge the credibility gap!
familiarity: pro-linux perceptions: the linux desktop is just like the microsoft windows desktop openoffice is very familiar to users of ms office linux is easier to deploy than ms windows comment: the respondent who answered that linux was easier to deploy than ms windows had never deployed ms windows!
(1 mention) use of a crm application that requires ms sql, so it is cheaper to have just one platform.
pro-windows perceptions: linux is not secure, after all it is made by back-yard hackers!
with linux it is easier to image hard disks for replicated deployment ms windows is too complicated to manage / maintain pro-windows perceptions: many vendors do not support linux
clearly, linux support is not as comforting to all corporate administrators as advocates might believe.
there are lots of reputable 3rd party companies that  produce (anti-)virus software.
- applications works faster and smoother - linux applications and tools are better for the job - linux desktop has more choices pro-windows perceptions: ms windows is the most used os platform isps do not support linux (pacbell mentioned directly) linux users are know-it-alls (softened form of real term used)
security: there is no such thing as a linux virus, all viruses are just programs!
i also asked the pro-ie6 respondent how compatible his ie5.5  and ie5 systems were with ie6 and he could not see the point of my question.
there are no financial applications for linux (myob and quicken were mentioned: the issue raised was the ability to export data to users of these two applications.
also, it seems obvious to me that with win4lin and vmware one has to pay  for this software as well as pay for the ms windows license so why not just run  ms windows on the users' pc?
linux printing stinks linux media  players stink interoperability will never happen!
no-one  is responsible for linux integrity - who do you sue if linux fails?
the linux development environment is free and very powerful (4 mentions) -- no vendor lock-in (2 mentions) all needed business applications are available for linux corel photodraw for linux is free (1 mention
he mentioned that ms dial-up networking issues were the singularly most frequent center of attention because windows users tamper with their settings all the time.
what was even more  significant is the not one person asked offered a reply to the third question.
when i mentioned the ability to run remote x-sessions with linux there was a stunned disbelief that this would work.
one respondent severely criticized microsoft for problems some users experienced with internet explorer but then excused this as a necessary side effect of a maturing technology while at the same time laying aside all consideration that linux might be going through the same maturation process.
the ms terminal server issue was raised by two respondents, neither of whom were aware of vnc, the citrix ica client for linux, nor of other tools for ms windows terminal server access from linux systems.
there is no linux equivalent!
ms windows users are  stupid linux is a more productive platform ms windows is not a single  platform 9x/me/xp home,
applications: the linux graphical interface is just as  easy to use as ms windows linux uses industry standards compliant protocols  -- industry standard file formats also
comment: i flew seated next to the ceo of an isp who told me his whole company runs on linux, that his company never had a problem with a linux user and that over 95% of support staff time is taken up helping ms windows users to do things that are very simple to do!
neither side has come to grips with the other's perspective and believes their own stories regardless of reality.
equally, the pro-windows respondents are unwilling to weight the real cost of the liabilities of their current infrastructure solutions this leads to an unwillingness to seriously consider alternatives.
no-one is responsible for linux integrity - who do you sue if linux fails?
ms had to withdraw this patch!
we can never be certain which  microsoft patches need to be installed: too many to choose from don't trust ms patches because of many instances of downtime caused by  faulty patches linux offers great interoperability
linux is daunting to new users windows is more predictable than linux is windows xp pro is easier to deploy (esp.
also, no respondents were aware that there is an odbc driver for postgresql and mysql that will allow ms access and ms excel to use an open source sql back-end system.
rather an uninformed opinion!
there is no pc anywhere for linux (and that is our help-desk and  administration standard)
- also easier to deploy - does not need as much support as ms windows
it was disappointing that several answers related  to linux as a server platform, not as a desktop tool.
pro-windows perceptions: samba has locking problems, it corrupts files and that is bad, bad, bad, bad!
- no roadmap - no future -
there is no pc anywhere for linux (and that is our help-desk and administration standard) linux media players stink interoperability will never happen!
reputation: pro-linux perceptions: linux is the fastest growing os platform linux is cool!
the cost of linux support is much lower than a  microsoft windows (nt4 / 2000) based solution.
it  seems that linux companies have not managed to get this message across at all.
ms windows requires on-site support staff.
comment: the comment pertaining to samba was based on a web search and not from experience, the fact is that locking problems could easily also be experienced with ms windows (and the respondent knew that but was of the opinion that if samba could not solve problems that ms windows has then there is no reason to use it).
we can not do without ms outlook client - you can not buy ms exchange server for linux - linux is not compatible with the internet explorer 6 standard - can't buy a decent live email backup client for linux like the one we bought for outlook -
when i mentioned industry standards compliance he replied that i should just  accept the fact that what everyone uses is the standard.
) if a user must use an ms windows application is can be run on linux: - using the wine application (2 mentions) - using win4lin (3 mentions) - using vmware (4 mentions)