then when the logout box pops up please click on (a) save current setup,(b)
both the linux command line and the ms windows run dialog box let you give instructions (commands) directly to the operating system (os).
after you have used linux  enough to be comfortable using linux, you might want to switch back to the  gnome desktop and give it a good spin.
so let's switch from gnome to kde for now.
to do that, simply click on thefootprint in the taskbar to popup the menu.
linux for microsoft windows users: #3 -- making an ms windows-like desktop for red hat linux mike angelo -- 13 march 2001(c)
or, if you like you can follow along in  this tutorial and use it as a guide for creating your own customized linux  desktop skin or theme.
the k desktop (kde) is the default  graphical user interface (gui) desktop for caldera's openlinux edesktop 2.4  linux distribution.
[johndoe@workstation7 johndoe]# startx figure 3.
the run dialog box lets you enter only one command line.
then in the desktop switcher box that pops up, (a) click onkde 1.1.2, (b) next click on "change only applies to current display", and then (c) click onok.
so does the linux  command line screen which more correctly is called aterminal screen.)
last time, in linux for microsoft windows users: #2 - getting started  with the linux ms windows-like desktop, we used the kde wizard in  caldera's openlinux edesktop 2.4 to make the linux, k desktop look and feel  pretty much like the microsoft windows desktop.
in the gnome desktop, simply click on the footprint (bottom left) in thegnome panel to pop up the gnome menu.
in order to make the desktop-change take effect, you must log out of the current gnome desktop and then re-start thex server.
both the  linux command line and the ms windows run dialog box let you give instructions  (commands) directly to the operating system (os).
today, let's get the k desktop running in red hat linux 7 and then make it look and feel more like the microsoft windows desktop.
in the gnome desktop, simply click on the footprint (bottom left) in  thegnome panel to pop up the gnome menu.
(note: the linux command line is somewhat like the run input box that you get to in ms windows by clicking onstart >
then when the logout box pops up please click on (a) save  current setup,(b)
simply, click on thefootprint in the gnome  panel (taskbar) along the bottom of the gnome desktop to pop up the gnome menu.
so does the linux command line screen which more correctly is called aterminal screen.)
simply, click on thefootprint in the gnome panel (taskbar) along the bottom of the gnome desktop to pop up the gnome menu.
the run dialog box lets  you enter only one command line.
then in our next session, let's get down to business using the k desktop to start and to run programs.
nevertheless, you can access most kde menus from the red hat 7 gnome desktop.
after you have used linux enough to be comfortable using linux, you might want to switch back to the gnome desktop and give it a good spin.
today, let's get the k desktop  running in red hat linux 7 and then make it look and feel more like the  microsoft windows desktop.
continue to page 2 related articles linux for microsoft windows users: #4-- getting started using the windows-like desktop for linux linux for microsoft windows users: #2 - getting started with the linux ms windows-like desktop linux for microsoft windows users: introduction & overview triple-boot caldera openlinux, red hat linux, & ms windows for best of three worlds continue to page 2
however, the ms-dos window lets you enter a new command after the os executes each command instruction.
the  "#" is part of the prompt (note: the linux command line is somewhat like the run input box  that you get to in ms windows by clicking onstart > run.
however, gnome is the default gui desktop for the red hat 7  linux distribution.
or, if you like you can follow along in this tutorial and use it as a guide for creating your own customized linux desktop skin or theme.
the linux command line is even more like the ms-dos window that pops up when you click thems-dos prompt in ms windows.
switching from the gnome to the k desktop
(editor's note: this is the third edition of a new regular  mozillaquest magazine column designed to help microsoft windows users better  understand and use linux, and linux software.)
next, please click log out.
last time, in linux for microsoft windows users: #2 - getting started with the linux ms windows-like desktop, we used the kde wizard in caldera's openlinux edesktop 2.4 to make the linux, k desktop look and feel pretty much like the microsoft windows desktop.
that brings you to a monochrome, linux command line prompt.
that will  restart the x server and bring up the k desktop.
next, please click on programs > system > desktop switching tool.
simply typestartx and hit theenter key.
then in the  desktop switcher box that pops up, (a) click onkde 1.1.2, (b) next click  on "change only applies to current display", and then (c)  click onok.
however, the ms-dos window lets you enter a  new command after the os executes each command instruction.
incidentally, this tutorial article should be helpful if you want to customize or re-skin the k desktop in other linux distributions, also.
however, it is very easy to switch from gnome to kde if you are using red  hat 7.
incidentally, this tutorial  article should be helpful if you want to customize or re-skin the k desktop in  other linux distributions, also.
yes, and then (c) on logout.
then click onkde menus.
example  linux command line prompt (left) and command to start the x server (right).
(click the ) introduction switching from the gnome to the k desktop making red hat's k-desktop more ms-windows-like modify the k panel & taskbar change the desktop background color tweak the icons look working on your ownconclusion resources & links mike angelo -- 13 march 2001(c)
that  brings you to a monochrome, linux command line prompt.
however, gnome is the default gui desktop for the red hat 7 linux distribution.
to do that, simply click  on thefootprint in the taskbar to popup the menu.
continue to page 2 linux for microsoft windows users: #4-- getting started using the  windows-like desktop for linux linux for microsoft windows users: #2 - getting started with the  linux ms windows-like desktop linux for microsoft windows users: introduction & overview triple-boot caldera openlinux, red hat linux, & ms windows for  best of three worlds continue to page 2
the gnome menu opened into the embedded kde menu
then in our next session, let's get down to business  using the k desktop to start and to run programs.
(editor's note: this is the third edition of a new regular mozillaquest magazine column designed to help microsoft windows users better understand and use linux, and linux software.)
the k desktop (kde) is the default graphical user interface (gui) desktop for caldera's openlinux edesktop 2.4 linux distribution.
nevertheless, you can access most kde menus from  the red hat 7 gnome desktop.
the linux command line is even more like the ms-dos window that pops up  when you click thems-dos prompt in ms windows.
the desktop switcher in order to make the desktop-change take effect, you must log out of the  current gnome desktop and then re-start thex server.
that will restart the x server and bring up the k desktop.
however, it is very easy to switch from gnome to kde if you are using red hat 7.