if you wish linux to be just exactly like windows, you will probably be  disappointed.
to edit professional documents, burn music cds, rework photos, design a website, or organise music; there's no need for $200 software with restrictive licenses.
these differences lead to variety, which is what makes linux so special and interesting.
it is often difficult for windows users to believe that there areno spyware nor viruses under linux — but it's true.
conclusion whether you are going to enjoy linux depends mostly on what you expect from it.
if you wish linux to be just exactly like windows, you will probably be disappointed.
in the free software community, members have different visions of what makes an ideal operating system.
e até poderá  trazer o seu velho pc de volta à vida.
and of course, you can go through your picture and music collection all the same.
what is mostly the same in linux fundamentally, everyday users will find gnu/linux similar in use to windows  or mac osx.
what is not as good in linux "never tell the truth to people who are not worthy of it."
other except where otherwise noted, content on this site is licensed under a cc by-sa 3.0 license.
these differences lead to variety, which is what makes  linux so special and interesting.
the taskbar and layout of applications will feel familiar to windows or mac os users.
files and folders are navigated with a file manager like windows explorer.
just like windows, linux has to boot when you switch your computer on, and then you use programs in it to do different things.
sadly, the same problem occurs with many low-end wifi cards.
about - our blog - terms of use - credits - contact us participate - link to us - report a bug - translation - project page
to edit professional documents, burn music cds, rework  photos, design a website, or organise music; there's no need for $200 software  with restrictive licenses.
read more in our linux faq: can i play my dvds and mp3s under gnu/linux?
it's also safe: you can forget the  demo/trial crippled software, or harmful freeware polluting the web.
this is what everyday users usually find better, mostly the same, or not as good, when switching from windows to linux.
gnu/linux is built by people who simplywish it to be different.
unfortunately, depending on where you live, such circumvention processes may be illegal even if you purchased your media entirely legally.
read more in our linux faq: can i play my dvds and  mp3s under gnu/linux?
the most common occurrence is the loss of wifi connection after hibernating on laptops whose hardware drivers are not free.
also, linux lets you choose  what you want and what you don't.
what is mostly the same in linux fundamentally, everyday users will find gnu/linux similar in use to windows or mac osx.
however, the vast majority of computers with standard hardware work out of the box with main linux distributions.
we hope you'll switch soon.
there's a large community waiting, and no one in it asking you to "sign up, purchase and register".
- dvds, restricted formats many multimedia formats in use are proprietary and not openly specified; this means, broadly speaking, that linux programmers have to find out how to read them without any help from the format designers.
if you try to do something complicated but  can't succeed, there are a lot of people around to help you out.
sadly, the same  problem occurs with many low-end wifi cards.
linux is very, very secure.
some are also  released free of charge, but under restrictive licenses.
malicious programs have a hard time  doing anything at all in a well-built system.
our "mais " page gives a few pointers.
the most common occurrence is the loss of wifi connection  after hibernating on laptops whose hardware drivers are not free.
support linux benefits from a great sense of community whose  friendliness will surprise you.
your freedom matters.
choose a linux distribution to get started!
what is not as good in linux "never tell the truth to people who are not worthy of it.
what is better in linux - it's free ao contrário do windows, o gnu/linux é software livre – livre.
conclusion whether you are going to enjoy linux depends mostly on what you expect from  it.
no fighting manter o seu computador em forma durante muito tempo não necessita de ser um esforço.
if you had a hard time getting rid of msn messenger, windows update notifications, or clippit the paperclip, you'll find it refreshing.
release drivers for linux or publicize full specifications.
the taskbar and layout of applications will feel  familiar to windows or mac os users.
however, the vast majority of  computers with standard hardware work out of the box with main linux  distributions.
so, drivers  are sometimes unavailable for the most recent high-end graphics cards —  some are reverse-engineered from windows drivers by volunteers.
choose  a linux distribution to get started!
also, linux lets you choose what you want and what you don't.
there are a wealth of free applications available at no  cost under linux.
what is better in linux
the companies behind the main gnu/linux  distributions, such ascanonical and red hat, also provide expert commercial  support.
— yugoslavian proverb.
instale-o em todos os computadores e faça cópias para os seus amigos!até pode estudá-lo, transformando-o como necessite, ou construindo-o e vendendo a sua própria distribuição.
common hardware such as usb keys or photo cameras never are a problem.
the internal installer makes it incredibly easy  to find, install and remove programs.
regular, easy software  updates will keep everyone entirely safe.
- porque não windows - mude para linux - mais - de windows para linux - escolha uma distribuição - experimente ou instale de windows para linux
it's also safe: you can forget the demo/trial crippled software, or harmful freeware polluting the web.
dvds, restricted formats many multimedia formats in use are  proprietary and not openly specified; this means, broadly speaking, that linux  programmers have to find out how to read them without any help from the format  designers.
saltar para o conteúdo obtenha gnu/linux!
in the free software community, members have different visions of what makes an  ideal operating system.
there's a large community waiting, and no one  in it asking you to "sign up, purchase and register".
see more: we have screenshots web browsing and common tasks
- security forget expensive and restrictive anti-virus, anti-spyware, anti-anything and anti-everything.
not having to worry about spyware, viruses, program  registrations, demos that expire, or finding software that is really free as in  freedom, makes using a computer suddenly very enjoyable.
the web looks just the same when viewed with linux (in fact you can browse the web with the same program if you already usefirefox or google chrome).
- hibernating because of the driver issues above, hibernating is not always reliable.
the web looks just the same when  viewed with linux (in fact you can browse the web with the same program if you  already usefirefox or google chrome).
using gnu/linux is the easiest  way to do so fully.
so, drivers are sometimes unavailable for the most recent high-end graphics cards — some are reverse-engineered from windows drivers by volunteers.
e até poderá trazer o seu velho pc de volta à vida.
see more: we have screenshots - web browsing and common tasks
thousands in communities and companies work to build software on which you may exert this freedom.
just like windows, linux  has to boot when you switch your computer on, and then you use programs in it  to do different things.
— mark twain; or: "tell the truth and run."
security forget expensive and restrictive anti-virus, anti-spyware,  anti-anything and anti-everything.
mude para linux - o que é o linux?
read more in our linux faq: can i play popular 3d games under gnu/linux?
" — mark twain; or: "tell the truth and run."
thousands in communities and companies work to build  software on which you may exert this freedom.
the internal installer makes it incredibly easy to find, install and remove programs.
driver support manufacturers of computer hardware don't always (yet)
- programs there are a wealth of free applications available at no cost under linux.
files and folders are navigated with  a file manager like windows explorer.
some are also released free of charge, but under restrictive licenses.
- general set-up if you still believe linux is controlled with code and command-line, you should update your views!
instale-o em todos os computadores e faça  cópias para os seus amigos!até pode estudá-lo,  transformando-o como necessite, ou construindo-o e vendendo a sua  própria distribuição.
altere o idioma - asturianu - english - עִבְרִית - more languages
- driver support manufacturers of computer hardware don't always (yet)
this might lead you to circumvent the restrictions in some dvds and thedrm in some music files, even if you purchased them in full legality, to be make them work under linux.
there is a very active free  software game development community though, and they have produced quite a few  high-quality games, both 2d and 3d, that are free software.
hibernating because of the driver issues above, hibernating is not  always reliable.
malicious programs have a hard time doing anything at all in a well-built system.
if you still believe linux is controlled with code  and command-line, you should update your views!
it is often  difficult for windows users to believe that there areno spyware nor viruses under linux — but it's true.
regular, easy software updates will keep everyone entirely safe.
if you try to do something complicated but can't succeed, there are a lot of people around to help you out.
unfortunately, depending on where you live, such circumvention processes may be illegal even if you purchased your  media entirely legally.
there is a very active free software game development community though, and they have produced quite a few high-quality games, both 2d and 3d, that are free software.
common hardware such as usb keys or photo cameras never are a  problem.
- your freedom matters.
the companies behind the main gnu/linux distributions, such ascanonical and red hat, also provide expert commercial support.
and of course, you can go through your  picture and music collection all the same.
this is what everyday users usually find better, mostly the same, or not as  good, when switching from windows to linux.
- gaming hard-core computer gamers, you might find that the linux gaming world is less professional and out-of-the-box than under windows: the large game developing companies are only slowly getting interested in the free software world, which means that many well-known titles do not work on linux, or need special restrictive emulators to work.
no fighting manter o seu computador em forma durante muito tempo  não necessita de ser um esforço.
experimente ou instale de windows para linux
if you had a hard time getting rid of msn  messenger, windows update notifications, or clippit the paperclip, you'll find  it refreshing.
this might lead you to circumvent the restrictions in some dvds  and thedrm in some music files, even if you purchased them in full legality, to  be make them work under linux.
you can head to the ubuntu gaming forum to find more information.
using gnu/linux is the easiest way to do so fully.
it's free ao contrário do windows, o gnu/linux é  software livre – livre.
not having to worry about spyware, viruses, program registrations, demos that expire, or finding software that is really free as in freedom, makes using a computer suddenly very enjoyable.
read more in our linux faq:  can i play popular 3d games under gnu/linux?
- support linux benefits from a great sense of community whose friendliness will surprise you.
gaming hard-core computer gamers, you might find that the linux  gaming world is less professional and out-of-the-box than under windows: the  large game developing companies are only slowly getting interested in the free  software world, which means that many well-known titles do not work on linux,  or need special restrictive emulators to work.