you seem to be the same type of person as jed  smith, thinking you’re better/more experienced/etc than i am, and try to  tell me how i should conduct myself.
and they will  use specific linux paths to headers, although linux also has softlinks to more  standard paths in the unix world.
hi alex, let me just pick out a few things here.
once i answered, and a technical discussion ensued, it quickly became obvious that he has no idea what he is talking about.
because both you and jed have presented your opinion as fact), i just fail to see the relevance of such remarks (it’s just a fallacy).
nevertheless, as i have already said to jed in the previous blog-comments: the problem with the posix api is that it is not built with security attributes in mind.
yes, the suse link in my blog speaks of a posix draft, and goes into this subject somewhat.
it was meant to harken back to an earlier topic, a gripe i’ve had with the linux community for years now (see the “are all linux users idiots?”
bsd users use bsd because they love unix”.
i never denied that (i don’t even want to start a debate on ‘who is better’, it’s pointless.
and yes, i just downloaded the crysis 2 updates and played a bit.
your university failed you by introducing you to silberschatz instead of tanenbaum (far superior) or stallings.
and by the way, we don’t use linux because we hate windows or we love  unix.
but as you yourself already admit: you weren’t very respectful yourself.
in fact, i am never interested in ‘which is better’, my angle is, and has always been, about finding facts.
and i think that we probably all agree that google is the best search engine, right?
in other words: your digs at me, the university etc were all just fallacies.
it turns out that they’re just not a feature that’s in that much demand.
just because i mention this one book doesn’t mean i haven’t read any others.
we are going to stick with it, contribute to it and make it more better and more efficient.
in fact, i am never interested in  ‘which is better’, my angle is, and has always been, about finding  facts.
not that i have anything against tanenbaum by the way, i have read some of his books as well.
and only *then* do the gloves come off.
some of the limitations *i* have mentioned go well beyond the scope of this document however.
also, acls never made it into an accepted posix standard.
scali says: june 28, 2011 at 5:51 pm
silberschatz has a really nice case study of a few popular kernels, including windows nt and linux.
but eh, i am  a gamer so i am really just neutral on all of it.
in a way you were filtering ou the ‘google bias’ of the search results.
cancel connecting to %s notify me of follow-up comments via email.
yet neither picked up on the case study in silberschatz that would be quite appropriate here.
the ball is in his  court on that matter.
that does not imply that *all* linux users are like that (which you can  also read in the very first line of the aforementioned blog).
not sure what your point is supposed to be anyway.
fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: email (required) (address never made public)
if you want to post book reviews, post them on amazon.
i have no problem with respectfully disagreeing with others.
he is locked into the linux mindset (“everything is a file”, “acls only exist in the filesystem” etc), and has little or no grasp of how windows works (newsflash: windows is not based on *nix.
we love linux because we love it, because it provides the most efficient  free and open source alternative(according to me by the way), because we love  the community it provides, because everyday it grows more than any other os in  the world.
shoot off your big mouth, jumping to conclusions, then sneaking out like a thief in the night.
please clarify to me how this statement, in any way, can be considered constructive?
and you have no idea who i am, so i wonder why you try to judge and even lecture me.
this was very interesting.
reply june 28, 2011 at 6:47 pm admittedly, i seem to have caught you at a low point in your blog.
it was meant to  harken back to an earlier topic, a gripe i’ve had with the linux  community for years now (see the “are all linux users idiots?”
then he  demonstrated what a search looks like if you take the results, and filter out  the ones that google would give you.
vms was built for anal organizations from the beginning, and commercial unixes mainly had them to get red book division c
i believe in mature, fair, reasonable debate.
they will use the specific gnu make dialect, breaking compatibility with bsd make.
linux  has its share too.
that is what makes you an idiot.
hehehehhe… you right man!
sincerely bomber monkey says: june 28, 2011 at 4:50 pm scali, i see you’re still a windbag.
blogs tend to be opinion pieces, opinions are not always constructive.
depends on how you look at it.
yes, tanenbaum’s books are very good.
instead of landing on the articles that everyone else also read, when searching for that topic, you got the ones that were overlooked by most people.
i thought something like this: http://www.yourdictionary.com/cheap-shot cheap shot noun an unfair or unsporting verbal attack on a vulnerable target.
as a sane, reasonable it professional i am aware of the weaknesses of all of my tools and i spend my time improving things rather than arguing which is better.
as you can see, i have been friendly to the other posters, extending them the same courtesy they have given me (much like with jed, really).
i’m a very experienced developer and project manager.
but, people like you can only see in black-and-white, so i don’t expect you to understand, or even try.
or is the tanenbaum-thing just a case of name-dropping, appeal-to-tradition etc?
it does look really pretty.
so even  though you may have acl support in the filesystem, and ‘everything is a  file’, you still lack some control there.
selinux and apparmor were both better solutions the moment they appeared than windows acls were for the first decade of their existence.
i think there is some irony in that: a lot of people use windows simply because it is the most obvious option, not because they really thought about what kind of os suits their needs best.
selinux and apparmor were both better solutions the moment they appeared  than windows acls were for the first decade of their existence.
i reasonably presume that with devfs and procfs and 2.6 kernels, most of the limitations mentioned in that document have been addressed.
we are going to stick with it, contribute to it and  make it more better and more efficient.
in this case,  however, i try to be constructive by confronting people with their behaviour,  in the idle hope that they may realize what they are doing, and subsequently  change their ways.
there are very practical reasons that the bsds and linux haven’t put  much effort into developing their acls: they’ve been hobbyist unixes for  half their existence, and had other things to worry about.
then he demonstrated what a search looks like if you take the results, and filter out the ones that google would give you.
yes, tanenbaum’s books are  very good.
i perhaps wasn’t the most respectful, but i didn’t lash out like a tool, either.
that is your opinion.
also, my blog enjoys a modest  popularity, so apparently it is interesting enough to a certain audience.
and i agree that there’s no point in arguing authors, but i strongly  suggest checking tanenbaum out if you have a moment.
i don’t really view calling someone a windbag as an insult.
you are commenting using your facebook account.
yes, the suse link in my blog speaks of a posix draft, and goes into this  subject somewhat.
the people who hate microsoft/windows use linux simply  because it is the most obvious option, not because they really thought about  what kind of os suits their needs best.
so they could sell stuff to the us government.
bomber monkey says: june 28, 2011 at 6:15 pm admittedly, i seem to have caught you at a low point in your blog.
i use unix on servers, where it belongs — and that’s a split between linux at my day job and freebsd elsewhere.
reply pingback: why i don’t use linux (and why you shouldn’t either)  | scali's blog leave a reply cancel reply enter your comment here...
he seems to think that linux is the blueprint for all oses everywhere, so his limited knowledge of things such as access control lists based on half-baked linux add-ons makes him an expert on windows as well.
the point is in the tone you used when disagreeing with me, combined with your obvious lack of knowledge about windows (using windows doesn’t make you are an expert on os internals anymore than linux does).
by suse’s own admission, there are still a number of restrictions.
hates gonna hate, remember that!
i’d like to add another opinion of mine: your post here seems to  be quite a rant.
not sure what your  point is supposed to be anyway.
they will use the  specific gnu make dialect, breaking compatibility with bsd make.
why do they try to tell others that they don’t know what they’re talking about, while they don’t know the facts themselves?
i think my first response was perfectly friendly and constructive.
in fact, i wonder why i even approved your post at all, and even reply to it.
( log out / change ) you are commenting using your twitter account.
sometimes they are not even trying to be constructive at all!
you also failed to ‘rise above’, by the way.
this time by self-proclaimed expert jed smith.
then he became increasingly pedantic and  argumentative, rather than just admitting he was wrong with his earlier  assessment, and his jab was uncalled for.
reply bonzai says: june 27, 2011 at 11:40 pm i kinda look at linux users as rebels without a cause.
instead  of landing on the articles that everyone else also read, when searching for  that topic, you got the ones that were overlooked by most people.
if my technical knowledge was shown to be lacking, start a technical debate on things i said wrong, not on what university i may have gone to, or what books i may have used there.
based on the benchmarks you linked to, i have to conclude that amd is doing better in dx11 than nvidia though.
tanenbaum > silberschatz.
i’m not some kid who writes python  scripts, you know.
i never denied that (i don’t even want to start a debate on  ‘who is better’, it’s pointless.
and they will use specific linux paths to headers, although linux also has softlinks to more standard paths in the unix world.
this blog post is nothing but an enraged rant where *nothing* constructive was accomplished.
you did not write this post to add to the previous topic, but rather to be  a personal attack on jed, as well as a sweeping statement of *all* linux  (notice the capitalization as it is a proper noun) users.
and by the way, we don’t use linux because we hate windows or we love unix.
to speak with the words of the infamous captain jack sparrow:  “… but you have heard of me” scali says: june 29, 2011 at 3:57 pm i was just thinking though… quite a coincidence that both you and  jed have read both tanenbaum and silberschatz.
reply i kinda look at linux users as rebels without a cause.
you are entitled to your opinion ofcourse, but i don’t think  it’s a good conversation-starter.
it turns  out that they’re just not a feature that’s in that much demand.
if you want to  post book reviews, post them on amazon.
this is my blog, where i post my opinions.
so in a way they’re no better  than the windows users they despise for “not thinking about the os they  choose”.
i was disappointed however to find that there isn’t a 64-bit binary (unlike far cry, crysis 1 and warhead/wars).
although nvidia has the absolute fastest option there, by a margin, you see that the radeons move up a few places in the ranks, going from dx9 to dx11.
you are entitled to your opinion ofcourse, but i don’t think it’s a good conversation-starter.
but you should try reading some others sometimes, they may focus on  other subjects.
vms/windows nt provide a better case  for this (although still not a very strong one, but since people usually  compare to windows, well…).
which is where something like  selinux or apparmor comes in, which is very os-specific, which means  we’ve strayed way from the ‘unix design’-topic that  originally started the discussion, and this path need not be pursued further.
even though limited acl support exists for linux and similar *nix-like oses, it is not quite a mature solution yet, as linux developers will tell you: http://www.suse.de/~agruen/acl/linux-acls/online/ i just wonder: what is it with linux that makes people like jed smith think they know everything about every os?
and there are so many of you!
that does not imply that *all* linux users are like that (which you can also read in the very first line of the aforementioned blog).
jed smith, you are an idiot!
if you’re talking about acls on *nixes being less mature, you’re leaving out the likes of hp-ux and aix, and the now-defunct dg-ux and irix, which have all had acls for nearly as long as vms.
this post is among the most popular this week.
since linux and bsd are both unixes, we are supposed to be friends and not  fight against each other.
and you have no idea who i am, so i wonder why you  try to judge and even lecture me.
(  log out / change ) cancel notify me of follow-up comments via email.
i was just thinking though… quite a coincidence that both you and jed have read both tanenbaum and silberschatz.
if you had taken the time to follow how the original  conversation between jed and myself evolved, perhaps your judgement would have  been different.
well, not many people have come to your rescue, have they?reply scali, you seem to be a bit rude and overly aggressive in situations where they are not warranted.
it’s almost a direct comparison, which i think is more appropriate in this case than tanenbaum’s approach.
reply scali says: july 22, 2011 at 9:02 am not even a reply for courtesy?
well, i think you are contradicting yourself here.
however, once you’ve done that, they still compile on linux, so there is no reason why they wouldn’t have made it more portable and compatible in the first place.
it’s like the linux idiot army!”
search for: windows xp: the gold standard of windows oses?
some things may have changed, other things are still very much relevant: the point you made about acls not being accepted as a posix standard, and implementations being based on the nfsv4 standard is in there, for example.
and don’t try to make it sound as  if you know me.
and the linux world tends to ignore  portability and other oses as much as microsoft does.
i always do that, bit of an in-joke… a response on how some people like to write micro$oft or windoze etc.
i feel you can then provide better responses and continue with a constructive conversation.
i have no idea who you are, or why i should even listen to you.
you just happen to land on an interesting spot on those  continua.
as a result, you often have to put in quite a  bit of work to make open source projects compile on non-linux systems.
just like everyone ‘knows’ that unix is the most secure os…? admittedly, i seem to have caught you at a low point in your blog.
i’m merely putting things in a more historical context.
crysis 2 dx11 finally did come out.
you seem to be a bit rude and overly aggressive in situations where they  are not warranted.
i think there is  some irony in that: a lot of people use windows simply because it is the most  obvious option, not because they really thought about what kind of os suits  their needs best.
(  log out / change ) you are commenting using your facebook account.
and perhaps if you understand the true idea behind this blog post, you might change your opinion on that as well.
but we  aren’t backing-out.
i mean, let’s be realistic here).
nice of you  to pick up on the deliberate non-capitalization of linux by the way (but not  freebsd, for example *hint*).
regardless of how good a solution they may or may not be, the mere fact  that these solutions have been created is clear proof that the original unix  design itself was not as ‘secure’ as some people seem to think.
it’s like the linux idiot army!
which is where something like selinux or apparmor comes in, which is very os-specific, which means we’ve strayed way from the ‘unix design’-topic that originally started the discussion, and this path need not be pursued further.
some  people don’t talk much, some people talk a lot, and listening is also  subject to variation.
— please clarify to me how this statement, in any way, can be considered constructive?
you can complain about it all you want, and show your lack of comprehension.
vms was built for  anal organizations from the beginning, and commercial unixes mainly had them to  get red book division c so they could sell stuff to the us government.
i’m not some kid who writes python scripts, you know.
maybe you should have made this article start off by mentioning the comments by jed, and then made it a constructive post.
they also did a pretty poor job of preparing you for the real world — particularly the it real world — where people will respectfully disagree with you, often.
i use windows because of the  games.
i don’t believe in censorship.
in fact,  ms added acls to nt for the same reason, and until windows 2000/2003 they were  ridiculed for doing a terrible job of it.
it has the largest userbase, as a result, the average linux user is also less knowledgeable than other *nix users.
reply scali says: june 28, 2011 at 7:41 am
that i do, that i do.
but i use  linux too for virtualization.
ps: there is an extra in-joke in that i use rhetoric and terms such as ‘idiot’,as used by prominent linux/oss advocate eric s. raymond.
so, he comes off with the usual arrogant and pedantic rhetoric: “you’re free to critique things but at least know your material beforehand”.
you can have your say, and defend yourself if you like.
you guys are all the same.
i’m rising above feeding into this, but you’d do well to know that just because someone disagrees with you doesn’t mean they’re an idiot and you look absolutely silly when responding like this.
it depends on what we need….
lastly, i never argued which is better.
hates gonna hate, remember that!reply yes, an old saying is: “linux users use linux because they hate windows.
he said:  “well, you probably all use google to search the web, right?
apparently they only say you need a 64-bit os because it allows 4 gb of memory per 32-bit process, where a 32-bit os only allows 2 gb.
nice of you to pick up on the deliberate non-capitalization of linux by the way (but not freebsd, for example *hint*).
this blog post appears to be no different.
so in a way they’re no better than the windows users they despise for “not thinking about the os they choose”.
but we aren’t backing-out.
nothing could be further from the truth.
so even though you may have acl support in the filesystem, and ‘everything is a file’, you still lack some control there.
eko says: january 21, 2012 at 12:07 am hehehehhe…
some things may have changed, other  things are still very much relevant: the point you made about acls not being  accepted as a posix standard, and implementations being based on the nfsv4  standard is in there, for example.
i have no idea who you are, or why i  should even listen to you.
yes, and i’m not even american, so i guess my allure is international!
clearly there are exceptions to every rule, but in this case we were mainly concentrating on the posix extensions that os x/bsd/linux use (let’s not pull things out of context).
but it smells of illusory superiority on your behalf.
also, my blog enjoys a modest popularity, so apparently it is interesting enough to a certain audience.
reply admittedly, i seem to have caught you at a low point in your blog.
at the very  least, it gives an interesting historical context of acl support in linux and  related oses.
next time, try without the insults.
and i think  that we probably all agree that google is the best search engine, right?
also, the debian document you linked is from 2003 and refers to 2.4  kernels; things have changed a lot.
and probably in higher positions and more high-tech environments.
the people who hate microsoft/windows use linux simply because it is the most obvious option, not because they really thought about what kind of os suits their needs best.
in many ways, linux is the windows of the non-microsoft world.
vms/windows nt provide a better case for this (although still not a very strong one, but since people usually compare to windows, well…).
you have  read silberschatz, haven’t you?
i always do that, bit of an in-joke… a  response on how some people like to write micro$oft or windoze etc.
shoot off your  big mouth, jumping to conclusions, then sneaking out like a thief in the night.
most of the linux users i knew in the past hated on ms.
they just seem to be ignorant of the rest of the world.
you have read silberschatz, haven’t you?
it reminds me of what one professor told us back in the day…
if you had taken the time to follow how the original conversation between jed and myself evolved, perhaps your judgement would have been different.
nevertheless, as i  have already said to jed in the previous blog-comments: the problem with the  posix api is that it is not built with security attributes in mind.
i was  pleasantly surprised at how well my gtx460 handled the game with all the detail  on.
sure… problem is, i did, he didn’t.
just because they are not as good or popular  as google, doesn’t mean that they’re useless.”
but i use linux too for virtualization.
the point is also not that you disagreed with me.
like apple or  microsoft.
as a result, you often find open source  applications that *should* be portable, but aren’t.
as for knowing you, i was a #c4n op back in the earlier days of #win32asm.
most importantly, i use windows 7 every day, as i think it’s the best out of the batch.
the book everyone (yes including me)  ‘knows’ you *should* be reading.
regardless of how good a solution they may or may not be, the mere fact that these solutions have been created is clear proof that the original unix design itself was not as ‘secure’ as some people seem to think.
and that  therefore any unix-derivatives (mainly bsd, os x, linux) are secure by default.
the linux world seems to  think that they *are* unix.
and most of what i heard of you wasn’t the kind of thing that you’d tend to want said.
ps: there is an extra in-joke in that i use rhetoric and terms such as  ‘idiot’,as used by prominent linux/oss advocate eric s. raymond.
just because i  mention this one book doesn’t mean i haven’t read any others.
you can complain about it  all you want, and show your lack of comprehension.
i am making an example out of you, because there are too many people like you around.
and only *then* do the gloves come  off.
(due to tweaks or hardware  differences
:p scali says: february 16, 2012 at 10:20 am i can generalize all i want, for dramatic effect.
your conduct in this blog post made it quite apparent who the idiot is here.
the radeon 5870 overtakes the geforce 470 and nearly closes the gap with the geforce 560ti.
reply bomber monkey says: june 28, 2011 at 5:33 pm
then he became increasingly pedantic and argumentative, rather than just admitting he was wrong with his earlier assessment, and his jab was uncalled for.
a true it professional knows how to use both, knows their best role, and actually contributes something to the craft instead of fighting with zeal against the tyranny of the other side.
i have not made a sweeping  statement however, i just said there’s ‘an army’ of such  people.
the linux world seems to think that they *are* unix.
it also helps that i was hired by a university to develop an efficient acl-based security system for their typo3-based cms, as the size of the organization gave them trouble managing the security with just the built-in *nix-like owner/group/world security bits, or with existing acl-plugins.
there is no point in continuing the conversation, as jed has not bothered  to respond to the last replies by myself and sune marcher.
dude, don’t generalize on things.
you do know the difference between opinion and fact, don’t you?
also, no… bsd is an actual unix, linux is unix-like.
the story of microsleep, followup the story of microsleep nvidia’s new geforce gtx680: you win some, you lose some?
well, all the ones i mentioned are fully posix-compliant, which bsd and  linux generally aren’t, so i don’t think i’m  decontextualizing at all.
in fact, ms added acls to nt for the same reason, and until windows 2000/2003 they were ridiculed for doing a terrible job of it.
well, but what about the others?
i know how the it world works, and i know how to deal with people, especially  other developers.
i know how the it world works, and i know how to deal with people, especially other developers.
like apple or microsoft.
but hey: i’m a reasonable guy, i didn’t delete or edit your reply.
you are commenting using your wordpress.com account.
i just  added a small jab at the end to counter the jab he put in his own post, in the  hope that he would see the irony.
see the link i posted.
i was disappointed however to find that there isn’t a 64-bit binary  (unlike far cry, crysis 1 and warhead/wars).
and perhaps if you understand the true idea behind this blog  post, you might change your opinion on that as well.
of the arrogance-through-ignorance kind!
indeed, it was not meant to add to the previous topic.
you seem to be a bit rude and overly aggressive in situations where they are not warranted.
well, all the ones i mentioned are fully posix-compliant, which bsd and linux generally aren’t, so i don’t think i’m decontextualizing at all.
it might have some drawbacks, sometimes serious ones.
some of the limitations *i* have  mentioned go well beyond the scope of this document however.
and don’t try to make it sound as if you know me.
if you’re talking about  acls on *nixes being less mature, you’re leaving out the likes of hp-ux  and aix, and the now-defunct dg-ux and irix, which have all had acls for nearly  as long as vms.
clearly there are exceptions to every rule, but in this case we were mainly  concentrating on the posix extensions that os x/bsd/linux use (let’s not  pull things out of context).
maybe you should realize comments are not always meant to be abrasive or  confronting.
it’s almost a direct comparison,  which i think is more appropriate in this case than tanenbaum’s approach.
to an apple-fanny girl or a rich fat microsoft fan, we all look alike.
people make it sound like unix has always been about maximum security.
i certainly have absolutely no idea who the heck you are, other  than that you’ve made a lousy first impression.
pingback: why i don’t use linux (and why you shouldn’t either) | scali's blog fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: you are commenting using your wordpress.com account.
some people don’t talk much, some people talk a lot, and listening is also subject to variation.
ah yes, let’s take cheap-shots at me, my university, and the literature i referred to.
but i hug my 920 @ 4.2 580 sli rig) http://gamegpu.ru/action-/-fps-/-tps/crysis-2-v-rezhime-directx-11-test-gpu.html keep it up scali!
just like bsd have varying variety of users like idiots, stupids, psycos, morons, maniacs, etc :p.
just like bsd have varying  variety of users like idiots, stupids, psycos, morons, maniacs, etc :p.
very mature (and if tanenbaum is so much better, then what is your excuse for knowing so little about windows internals?
apparently he thinks that he is an expert on security, for all oses, just because he uses linux.
powered by wordpress.com
that’s how it was meant anyway.
it means that someone doesn’t have anything interesting to  say.
to an apple-fanny girl or a rich fat microsoft fan,  we all look alike.
i don’t care whether you use windows or not, that is not the point (and statistically, how small is the chance that any *nix advocate has never used windows?
blog, for example, first link in this blog).
to speak with the words of the infamous captain jack sparrow: “… but you have heard of me”
maybe you should take a step back and read the comments as someone having a conversation with you, not someone attacking you.
“jed smith, you are an idiot!
it has the  largest userbase, as a result, the average linux user is also less  knowledgeable than other *nix users.
also, the debian document you linked is from 2003 and refers to 2.4 kernels; things have changed a lot.
but only a sane, reasonable it professional would be able to objectively read my posts, and understand what i did and didn’t say (perhaps you should read some more of my blog posts to get a bit of an idea about what kind of oses and technologies i use, or have used, and what my stance is.
the ball is in his court on that matter.
there are very practical reasons that the bsds and linux haven’t put much effort into developing their acls: they’ve been hobbyist unixes for half their existence, and had other things to worry about.
reply scali says: june 28, 2011 at 5:00 pm if you’re talking about acls on *nixes being less mature,  you’re leaving out the likes of hp-ux and aix, and the now-defunct dg-ux  and irix, which have all had acls for nearly as long as vms.
in a way you  were filtering ou the ‘google bias’ of the search results.
nvidia seems to dominate in performance lead.
apparently they only say you need  a 64-bit os because it allows 4 gb of memory per 32-bit process, where a 32-bit  os only allows 2 gb.
the radeon 5870  overtakes the geforce 470 and nearly closes the gap with the geforce 560ti.
they don’t have anything to do with the real subject at hand.
and the linux world tends to ignore portability and other oses as much as microsoft does.
i use windows because of the games.
this post is among the most popular this  week.
they don’t wish to really be part of any kind of os that has a brand to it.
please clarify to me how this statement, in any way, can be considered  constructive?
had he just admitted he was wrong, then he wouldn’t  have come off so arrogant.
based on the benchmarks you linked to, i have to  conclude that amd is doing better in dx11 than nvidia though.
however,  once you’ve done that, they still compile on linux, so there is no reason  why they wouldn’t have made it more portable and compatible in the first  place.
as a result, you often find open source applications that *should* be portable, but aren’t.
the fact that you made these digs shows at the very least that you are not capable of respectfully disagreeing (you made the digs, i didn’t make any digs, i merely confronted you with your own behaviour right here on my blog, which everyone can see for themselves), and is also an indication that you don’t have any real arguments to add to the discussion.
i already said i have read some of tanenbaum’s books.
there are all kinds of linux users out there.
he said: “well, you probably all use google to search the web, right?
but, people like you can only see in black-and-white, so i don’t  expect you to understand, or even try.
i’m merely putting things in a more historical  context.
linux has its share too.
because both you and jed have  presented your opinion as fact), i just fail to see the relevance of such  remarks (it’s just a fallacy).
sincerelyreply scali, i see you’re still a windbag.
it does help however that i have quite a bit of experience of developing on windows and various *nix-like oses, and that i have studied the os internals of windows and linux at university (with the great book “operating system concepts” by silberschatz and galvin).
i probably have quite a few more years in it under my belt than you do.
i have not made a sweeping statement however, i just said there’s ‘an army’ of such people.
or is the tanenbaum-thing just a case of  name-dropping, appeal-to-tradition etc?
although nvidia  has the absolute fastest option there, by a margin, you see that the radeons  move up a few places in the ranks, going from dx9 to dx11.
by suse’s own admission, there are still a  number of restrictions.
most  implementations are based on the nfsv4 implementation or home-brewed.
although it may borrow some ideas from the *nix-world, in other areas it is nothing like *nix in any way).
yet neither picked up on the  case study in silberschatz that would be quite appropriate here.
ever talked to an apple or microsoft fan about how bsd is an  (efficient) os too…….
linux users are apparently humans too.
in this case, however, i try to be constructive by confronting people with their behaviour, in the idle hope that they may realize what they are doing, and subsequently change their ways.
you do know the difference  between opinion and fact, don’t you?
which goes for you as well.
i certainly have absolutely no idea who the heck you are, other than that you’ve made a lousy first impression.
the book everyone (yes including me) ‘knows’ you *should* be reading.
in fact, i wonder why i even approved  your post at all, and even reply to it.
so it quickly becomes very painful when you have to explain some very basic features of the win32api (which has been that way since 1993, unlike the acl patches and other things such as selinux and apparmor, which were introduced to hack similar security features into linux as an afterthought).
to be honest, this security debate is even more pointless than a language debate.
and again in your reply i can taste a level of arrogance that indicates that you think you are the more knowledgable and experienced of us.
but when someone like jed comes here, insults my knowledge for no apparent reason, and then just leaves a technical discussion without even having the decency to admit he was wrong, let alone apologize for his behaviour, then yes, i will tell someone like that exactly how i feel about them.
there is no point in continuing the conversation, as jed has not bothered to respond to the last replies by myself and sune marcher.
so i guess it’s a contemporary american kind of fame.
they don’t  wish to really be part of any kind of os that has a brand to it.
selinux and apparmor were both better  solutions the moment they appeared than windows acls were for the first decade  of their existence.
instead of continuing on to explain acls and touch every topic, you continued it as a personal attack.
ever talked to an apple or microsoft fan about how bsd is an (efficient) os too…….
i feel the same way about this situation:
maybe you should realize comments are not always meant to be abrasive or confronting.
and that therefore any unix-derivatives (mainly bsd, os x, linux) are secure by default.
they are indeed very good, and i like his humourous style of writing).
most implementations are based on the nfsv4 implementation or home-brewed.
and most  of what i heard of you wasn’t the kind of thing that you’d tend to  want said.
but eh, i am a gamer so i am really just neutral on all of it.
triton’s crystal dream restored and preserved for posterity archives
i’d like to add another opinion of mine: your post here seems to be quite a rant.
as for the real it-world, look at yourself.
i reasonably presume that with devfs and  procfs and 2.6 kernels, most of the limitations mentioned in that document have  been addressed.
interestingly enough there is already a benchmark on it from a euro website.
but you should try reading some others sometimes, they may focus on other subjects.
i merely pointed him to the proper msdn background info.
at the very least, it gives an interesting historical context of acl support in linux and related oses.
there are all kinds of linux users  out there.
as for knowing you, i was a #c4n op back in the earlier days of  #win32asm.
i must admit i am not impressed with your conduct.
i’m not a proponent of the linux desktop and never have been.
you seem to be the same type of person as jed smith, thinking you’re better/more experienced/etc than i am, and try to tell me how i should conduct myself.
june 27, 2011 at 5:51 pm hi alex, let me just pick out a few things here.
silberschatz has a really nice case study of a few popular  kernels, including windows nt and linux.
they are designed to continue the conversation and possible clarify, or request clarification, for topics discussed in the article.
:p i can generalize all i want, for dramatic effect.
i just added a small jab at the end to counter the jab he put in his own post, in the hope that he would see the irony.
it’s always the same story… i’ve written about it before, repeatedly, actually, and yesterday it happened yet again, right here on this blog.
i was pleasantly surprised at how well my gtx460 handled the game with all the detail on.
just like everyone  ‘knows’ that unix is the most secure os…?
it also brings an internet meme to mind: “u mad bro?”
as a result, you often have to put in quite a bit of work to make open source projects compile on non-linux systems.
since linux and bsd are both unixes, we are supposed to be friends and not fight against each other.
you did not write this post to add to the previous topic, but rather to be a personal attack on jed, as well as a sweeping statement of *all* linux (notice the capitalization as it is a proper noun) users.
as you can see, i have been friendly to the other posters, extending them  the same courtesy they have given me (much like with jed, really).
had he just admitted he was wrong, then he wouldn’t have come off so arrogant.
just because they are not as good or popular as google, doesn’t mean that they’re useless.”
hint: i’m not pro-microsoft or pro-windows, let alone microsoft/windows-only).
(also, watch your proper nouns.)
you just happen to land on an interesting spot on those continua.
yes, i am well aware of the date.
(due to tweaks or hardware differences but i hug my 920 @ 4.2 580 sli rig) http://gamegpu.ru/action-/-fps-/-tps/crysis-2-v-rezhime-directx-11-test-gpu.html keep it up scali!
you are commenting using your twitter account.
it means that someone doesn’t have anything interesting to say.
i think my first response was perfectly friendly and  constructive.
reply not even a reply for courtesy?
yes, an old saying is: “linux users use linux because they hate  windows.
not that i consider myself an expert in the least, i merely try to know the facts before i speak.
reply ravi teja g says: february 16, 2012 at 8:20 am dude, don’t generalize on things.
but when someone like jed comes here, insults my  knowledge for no apparent reason, and then just leaves a technical discussion  without even having the decency to admit he was wrong, let alone apologize for  his behaviour, then yes, i will tell someone like that exactly how i feel about  them.
reply i don’t think “cheap shot” means what you think it does.
not that i feel like throwing a resume around to impress someone like you, let alone that i think that being more experienced would mean that i am right more often, let alone that i wouldn’t have to listen to the opinion of someone less experienced.
we love linux because we love it, because it provides the most efficient free and open source alternative(according to me by the way), because we love the community it provides, because everyday it grows more than any other os in the world.
and i agree that there’s no point in arguing authors, but i strongly suggest checking tanenbaum out if you have a moment.
get every new post delivered to your inbox.