for php hosting, we highly recommendfatcow hosting offering unlimited storage and unlimited domain hosting.
however, a few developer groups and software companies are committed in developing emulators that make possible, under certain circumstances, to run some windows programs on linux.
in many cases linux offers more than  one alternative.
and to see or to change the source code of an  unfamiliar program to create a new one was quite common.
you can preserve your windows partition and thanks to the dual-boot to choose to start your computer either under windows or under gnu/linux.
it is a  good solution if you never change hard disk or operating system.
you’d care to do, there’s an app for that.”
at&t, bell, bsd, foss, gnu, labs, linus, torvalds, unix
the new users of gnu/linux often make the same errors when they test gnu/linux for the first time.
“, because it is there that you will store  images, films, and other large files.
however, it is possible to run the original code (with some limitations, i guess) using a windows emulator.
a. linux is free and it comes with a licence known as “gnu gpl”, which grants free use, free access to the source code (linux distributions often come with both binaries and the source code), freedom to copy, modify and distribute it.
windows hosting comes with the added cost of the os, and certain applications that the hosting company has to continually pay for.
most of these distributors add up their own features, targeting specific areas like enterprise, desktop, multimedia etc., to the existing gnu system, to cater diverse user sections.
first of all, note that sites with static pages such as blogs can run on  either windows or linux hosting platforms.
with a free operating system, a community of cooperating hackers would be able to use a computer without starting to deprive his or her friend.
when you require dynamic content on your website, such as ecommerce facilities, forums or other forms of scripting, then you need to pay attention to your hosting platform.
so in 1985 the free software foundation (fsf) was created, a tax-exempt charity for free software development.
some noted ones are redhat, fedora (an open project by redhat), debian, suse from novell, mandriva, ubuntu, sabayon, pclinuxos, simplymepis, knoppix, gentoo etc.
you must install windows in first to make only one partition but not  too large not to obstruct the installation of gnu/linux after.
linux php hosting are generally more cheaper and faster compare to windows  asp hosting.
depending on  your budget, security concerns and familiarity with the computer language, you  can pick either of them and successfully run a dynamic website for a long time  to come.
a. actually three different  things yet belonging to the same environment are named linux.
linus torvalds realized his terminal emulator based on minix was  turning into an operating system, and this was the makings of today’s
and to see or to change the source code of an unfamiliar program to create a new one was quite common.
you can explore the software categories like, sound and video, graphics, education, games, programming and office and pick the one according to your need.
after quitting his job at mit in 1984 stallman began writing the gnu  software.
but once passed this stage hardest is made.
it is due to linux that a version of the gnu  system could be run today.
if you have 512 mb or 1gb of read-write memory the size the partition of exchange (swap) should not be lower than 512 mb, and not lower than 1gb if you have less than 512 mb of read-write memory.
so in 1985 the  free software foundation (fsf) was created, a tax-exempt charity for free  software development.
it is useless to make a larger partition if you use your machine only for  office automation applications.
where do i get linux?
didier pradel is the webmaster of laptop support and the linux laptop  support where you can find many useful informations, and help for your lovely  laptop.
the community the  forums are sources of support as well as the site of your distribution if you  chose a distribution commercial.
anyway, it is so similar to the operating system family known as “unix” to the point that experts use to refer to linux as “unix like” q.
for a normal user the learning curve is not steeper then for learning windows or macos.
after losing his community, stallman always had the choice of joining the proprietary software world, writing code under nondisclosure agreements, which he believed divided the software society and a means for not helping a fellow hacker (“someone who loves to program and enjoys being clever about it”) or quitting the computer field, which was rather an unpleasant thing to do as it would have wasted his skills as an operating system developer.
and the most interesting thing is that you get all these through a single window.
gnu project now the idea was pretty clear, what was needed first is an operating system.
some things  work faster on windows, while others work faster on linux.
ubuntu linux is not only much secure than windows os, but it also includes free apps and renders safe and fast web browsing.
you can make changes or modify the program and again redistribute under the first mentioned condition, with clear notices of your changes and date of that change.
the gnu project was started with the purpose of creating a free unix  style operating system consisting of free and open source software (foss) +1980s bsd (berkeley software distribution) was a free operating system  project developed from at&t’s 6th edition of unix.
this software is very easy  to use and you can create professional documents, spreadsheets and  presentations.
some claim that all that is related to linux is free.
this organization based on the permissions makes your system protected and one is accustomed quickly, although that is strange at the beginning.
if you  want the very best technologies straight to your desktop, ubuntu linux is the  pick for you.
(to  make this freedom effective in practice, you must have access to the source  code, since making changes in a program without having the source code is  exceedingly difficult.)
4- the permissions: with windows, you are in general either an administrator, or a user with  the rights of administrator.
(to make this freedom effective in practice, you must have access to the source code, since making changes in a program without having the source code is exceedingly difficult.)
after quitting his job at mit in 1984 stallman began writing the gnu software.
you have the freedom to redistribute copies, either gratis or for a  fee.
you have the freedom to redistribute copies, either gratis or for a fee.
linux distributions many linux distributions based on the gnu/linux system are currently  available both as free copies and commercial distributions.
a. linux has become very user friendly nowadays.
these only use html and css, which are supported equally well by both operating systems.
you must install windows in first to make only one partition but not too large not to obstruct the installation of gnu/linux after.
but if you wish to preserve your data and the preferences of the applications which you use, it is to better do two other partitions for the operating system, the other for your data and your adjustments.
it was originally developed by at&t employees  at bell labs history of unix systems +1983
pick any of theircomputer repair plan and enjoy hassle-free  computing.
you have the freedom to modify the program to suit your needs.
the gnu project was started with the purpose of creating a free unix style operating system consisting of free and open source software (foss) +1980s bsd (berkeley software distribution) was a free operating system project developed from at&t’s 6th edition of unix.
it is useless to make a larger partition if you use your machine only for office automation applications.
this kernel named the gnu hurd (or  “herd of gnus”)
after losing his community, stallman always had the choice of joining the  proprietary software world, writing code under nondisclosure agreements, which  he believed divided the software society and a means for not helping a fellow  hacker (“someone who loves to program and enjoys being clever about  it”) or quitting the computer field, which was rather an unpleasant thing  to do as it would have wasted his skills as an operating system developer.
so you, now have the options of choosing the distribution based on your intended use, like suse, ubuntu, pclinuxos for user friendliness, debian, fedora for development, redhat for enterprise and so on.
to learn has to evolve/move in this new world will take time, it is normal.
richard stallman, founder of the gnu project for richard stallman things started to look bad with the collapse of the free community at the artificial intelligence lab at mit in the early 80′s, with modern era operating systems, none of them free software, were coming with a nondisclosure agreement which said, you are not allowed to share or change the software and if you want to get something changed, ask us to do it for you.
today, cross-platform scripting – that is, scripting with php/perl on windows or with asp/asp(dot)net/access on linux – is permitted by some isps.
this  software is fully compatible with microsoft office.
the reasons of these errors are numerous: because gnu/linux is a different os; because windows gives bad habits; because the user chooses the bad distribution and much of other possibilities.
tags: asp, gnu, host, hosting, mys, mysql, perl, php, vs questions and answers about the linux operating system sunday,  november 29th, 2009 |learn linux - linux help | 4 comments questions and answers about the linux operating system
while this is demonstrably true – think of the millions of viruses for windows systems, and the rare bug that crops up in linux – it is also true that efficient server administration can render a windows system as secure as a linux one.
php, however, is still one of the most  popular scripts around thanks to its versatility and the solid, useful  applications being written using it.
by andrea tessi the purpose of this article is to give answers to some basic questions  common people may have about linux.
linux here is substantially cheaper, as it is an open-source system, and most of its applications are also under gnu public licenses – in other words, free.
some things work faster on windows, while others work faster on linux.
however, a few developer groups and software companies are committed in  developing emulators that make possible, under certain circumstances, to run  some windows programs on linux.
the reasons  of these errors are numerous: because gnu/linux is a different os; because  windows gives bad habits; because the user chooses the bad distribution and  much of other possibilities.
these are some basic answers to questions people ask me when i tell them
for the most common tasks we can say that every windows  program has its free equivalent on linux.
by andrea tessi the purpose of this article is to give answers to some basic questions common people may have about linux.
3 swap the size depends on the number of software which you install, but 20 gb are more than sufficient for the partition root “/”root, the largest part of your disc must be to hold has” /home
it allows you instant access to thousands of  open-source and carefully selected free applications.
find more info from ourfatcow review and coupon website.
q. can i run microsoft office on linux?
those which want to install linux on a laptop will  find herethe linux laptop support a list of the laptop on which that was  already done.
while this is demonstrably true  – think of the millions of viruses for windows systems, and the rare bug  that crops up in linux – it is also true that efficient server  administration can render a windows system as secure as a linux one.
it contains the operating system, the applications, the data, and a great space  for your file of windows exchange (the software uses space on the hard disk  when the read-write memory is not enough any more).
linus torvalds realized his terminal emulator based on minix was turning into an operating system, and this was the makings of today’s linux kernel linus torvalds +1992 linus suggested releasing the kernel under the gnu general public license.
with this solution you can safeguard the remainder of your personal and software data on a second partition.
if you have 512 mb or 1gb of read-write  memory the size the partition of exchange (swap) should not be lower than 512  mb, and not lower than 1gb if you have less than 512 mb of read-write memory.
q. can i run a windows program on linux?
there are also plenty of apps that allow the user to fix and share their photos with the world.
so to choose between  operating systems, cost and security would have to be the deciding factors.
there are plenty of stunning features of ubuntu linux that make it one of the best operating systems available in the present days.
it  will be necessary to learn from new software, a new interface, with a new  manner of making.
however, the learning curve in asp or asp(dot)net is much steeper than in php – something that can backfire for advanced users looking for greater control and freedom.
in many cases linux offers more than one alternative.
gpl (gnu general public license) all the software under the gnu project were distributed under the gpl, which says that you can copy and distribute exact copies of the program’s source code as you have received it.
it allows you instant access to thousands of open-source and carefully selected free applications.
a. linux has become very  user friendly nowadays.
for start with gnu/linux, it is to advise to choose among the following  distributions, withoutorder: professional suse and, in the future, opensuse linspire xandros mandriva (in the past mandrake)
you can preserve your windows partition and thanks to the  dual-boot to choose to start your computer either under windows or under  gnu/linux.
when it comes to picking any software, the ubuntu software centre is right there to meet your requirements.
and if you want  to exchange files between the windows partition and the gnu/linux partition,  use the filing system fat32 to format your windows partition (window does not  read the partition linux and linux does not read partitions ntfs whereas it can  read and write easily on a system fat32).
tags: fedora, gnu, linspire, partition, permissions, suse, ubuntu, xandros milestones in the creation of linux +1960s no one can argue that with the introduction of unix in the 1960s we would not have linux today.
how much does it cost?
in the end, choosing between windows asp and linux php as hosting platforms  becomes a matter of individual preference and contingent need.
it is  defined as: »you have the freedom to run the program, for any  purpose.
it is defined as: »you have the freedom to run the program, for any purpose.
didier pradel is the webmaster of laptop support and the linux laptop support where you can find many useful informations, and help for your lovely laptop.
it is wise to give 75% of the total disk space to the repertory /home, the majority of the gnu/linux distributions can make the partitions for you, but they have all various ideas on the number of partitions to create and their size.
an exception may be done for  java programs, provided that the java virtual machine is installed in the  system.
no one can argue that with the introduction of unix in the 1960s we  would not have linux today.
microsoft announced that they will never port (i.e. make it compatible)
free software foundation as users of emacs were growing, more people were getting involved in the gnu project, and this forced stallman to look for some funding.
a. no, though  linux has been written from the unix code.
for a normal user the learning curve is not steeper  then for learning windows or macos.
since the operating system includes plenty of stunning features, you can get your job done without paying for third party software.
that thus gives 1 partition root  “/”, 2 partition “/home”.
with a free operating system, a community of cooperating hackers would  be able to use a computer without starting to deprive his or her friend.
ubuntu linux integrates software like pitivi video editor, and movie player which allows you to watch all your favorite contents from youtube, iplayer, and msn player.
all these distributions intend to target different set of users.
there are many people that neither are geeks nor computer experts turning to linux every day.
linux is a free operating system whose popularity is increasing day by day and passed from being the toy of a small geek group to a robust and mature piece of code so much as to start challenging microsoft windows leadership.
a. linux is free and it  comes with a licence known as “gnu gpl”, which grants free use,  free access to the source code (linux distributions often come with both  binaries and the source code), freedom to copy, modify and distribute it.
anyway, it is so similar to the  operating system family known as “unix” to the point that experts  use to refer to linux as “unix like” q.
tags: foss, free software foundation, gnu, linus torvalds, linux, richard stallman ubuntu linux – the best operating system for your computer by eve wilson are you looking for a good alternative for your windows operating system?
microsoft office to linux.
originally it was used to name the kernel of the linux operating system (whose complete name should be hence “gnu linux”) and eventually it was used to simply refer to the linux operating system.
you can seamlessly create professional  documents and presentations with openoffice.org that comes with this os.
free linux help, tips & tricks!
here you get the opportunity to connect to all your favorite chat channels and make updates.
most of the linux distributions are freely available for download from the internet; fedora from download.fedora.redhat.com suse from novell.com debian from debian.org there are also other links from where you can pull down these distributions.
torvalds has stated, “making linux gpl’d was definitely the best thing i ever did.
come to visit his new website that helps people find the bestcappuccino machine and discusses the 10 top selling cappuccino machines available in the market.
originally it was  used to name the kernel of the linux operating system (whose complete name  should be hence “gnu linux”) and eventually it was used to simply  refer to the linux operating system.
you can seamlessly create professional documents and presentations with openoffice.org that comes with this os.
with gnu/linux, you are in general connect as a user to restricted access, and you pass as a root (i.e. administrator under windows) when you must change important parameters of the system or regulate the hardware configuration or add or remove a program.
3 swap the size depends on  the number of software which you install, but 20 gb are more than sufficient  for the partition root “/”root, the largest part of your disc must  be to hold has” /home
first of all, note that sites with static pages such as blogs can run on either windows or linux hosting platforms.
linux and gnu developers worked to integrate gnu components with linux to make a fully-functional and free operating system.
andrea is a software developer and writes articles online about computers,  software and other interesting topics.
in 1991, a student from finland named linus torvalds developed a  unix-compatible kernel and called it linux.
this sounded anti-social to the software-sharing community that had existed  for many years at the mit, who enjoyed and agreed sharing their programs with  universities and companies.
traditionally, linux servers are used for scripts based on php or perl.
here some solutions with five current problems under gnu/linux.
ubuntu linux integrates software like pitivi video editor, and movie player  which allows you to watch all your favorite contents from youtube, iplayer, and  msn player.
gradually more and more programs were added to the gnu system and most of them gained popularity as they could run on the unix systems, and users began extending them and porting them to the various incompatible versions of unix, and sometimes to other systems as well.
during the last 5 years linux  evolved to become very user friendly, and for some tasks even more than  microsoft windows.
could run on top of mach, and do the various jobs of the unix kernel.
for start with gnu/linux, it is to advise to choose among the following distributions, withoutorder: professional suse and, in the future, opensuse linspire xandros fedora core mandriva (in the past mandrake)
by 1990 the gnu system was almost complete, with a major missing link, the kernel, which actually does the job of managing the system resources.
gnu project now the idea was pretty clear, what was needed first is an operating  system.
it still seems strange to most of them that somebody nowadays can  use an operating system that neither is windows nor macos.
when it comes to picking any software, the ubuntu software centre is right  there to meet your requirements.
for php hosting, we highly recommendfatcow hosting offering  unlimited storage and unlimited domain hosting.
tag: gnu evolution of gnu, linux system – must read for newbies monday,  november 7th, 2011 |arizona linux | 1 comment by raghu bharadwaj i would like to introduce you to a chronology of events that happened in  the early 80′s and 90′s.
these only use html and css, which  are supported equally well by both operating systems.
during the last 5 years linux evolved to become very user friendly, and for some tasks even more than microsoft windows.
mysql works equally well with  both windows and linux.
could run on top of mach, and do the various jobs  of the unix kernel.
this software is very easy to use and you can create professional documents, spreadsheets and presentations.
these scripts include wordpress, drupal, joomla and many other blogging or content management systems.
these scripts include wordpress, drupal, joomla and many other blogging or  content management systems.
and if you want to exchange files between the windows partition and the gnu/linux partition, use the filing system fat32 to format your windows partition (window does not read the partition linux and linux does not read partitions ntfs whereas it can read and write easily on a system fat32).
linux distributions many linux distributions based on the gnu/linux system are currently available both as free copies and commercial distributions.
come to visit his new website that helps  people find the bestcappuccino machine and discusses the 10 top selling  cappuccino machines available in the market.
it is a good solution if you never change hard disk or operating system.
considering all these, it could easily be said that ubuntu linux is the best operating system for your computer.
this operating system is super-fast and great-looking.
since then free software foundation employees have written and maintained a number of gnu software packages, two notable ones are the c library and the shell.
in the end, choosing between windows asp and linux php as hosting platforms becomes a matter of individual preference and contingent need.
no comments milestones in the creation of linux +1960s
there are five errors to be avoided saturday, october 3rd, 2009 |learn linux - linux help |
later, a team of  volunteers helped him improving and enhancing it.
in the middle of december 1992 he published version 0.99 using the gnu gpl.
it was originally developed by at&t employees at bell labs history of unix systems +1983
this means you don’t need to pay hefty amount for buying this operating system like that of windows os.
by darren w chow one of the first decisions to make while choosing web hosting is –  what platform to opt for?
he  chose to make the system compatible with unix so that it would be portable, and  unix users could easily switch to it.
there are five errors to be avoided bydidier pradel to give the desire for testing linux so that it is one day your operating  system, is one of the objectives of this site.
it is due to linux that a version of the gnu system could be run today.
by darren w chow one of the first decisions to make while choosing web hosting is – what platform to opt for?
tags: asp, gnu, host, hosting, mys, mysql, perl, php, vs questions and answers about the linux operating system
with windows, you are accustomed to only one partition on your hard disk.
nowadays linux is becoming very popular.
an exception may be done for java programs, provided that the java virtual machine is installed in the system.
that thus gives 1 partition root “/”, 2 partition “/home”.
since the operating  system includes plenty of stunning features, you can get your job done without  paying for third party software.
those which want to install linux on a laptop will find herethe linux laptop support a list of the laptop on which that was already done.
and if you do not want to waste time downloading, buy them from people like osdisc.com, linuxcd.org etc., but i am sure you would definitely find one, among your colleagues.
a. no, though linux has been written from the unix code.
by 1990 the gnu system was almost complete, with a major missing link, the  kernel, which actually does the job of managing the system resources.
so nowadays the name linux is used for three different things: the kernel, the operating system and the distribution.
the commercial distributions gnu/linux include word processing softwares, p2p, spreadsheet, presentation on transparency, edition file sharing of video, binary compatibility with windows, virtual machine, reading of dvd, web server, web navigator, and much of others.
richard stallman, founder of the gnu project for richard stallman things started to look bad with the collapse of the  free community at the artificial intelligence lab at mit in the early  80′s, with modern era operating systems, none of them free software, were  coming with a nondisclosure agreement which said, you are not allowed to share  or change the software and if you want to get something changed, ask us to do  it for you.
a. actually three different things yet belonging to the same environment are named linux.
after having to seek, to study, read the opinions of users, with the wire  of time, on many distributions, two points arise: the first: gnu/linux bureau is a question of taste, the second: not a distribution does not join together the whole of the best  options.
whether you have a netbook, desktop or laptop, you can easily install this os.
tags: gnu, gpl, linus, linux, unix, windows beginners under gnu – linux?
there is one  exception here, though – php runs equally well on windows and linux, so  linux-based hosting is no longer essential to run php-based scripts and  applications.
linux is a free operating system whose  popularity is increasing day by day and passed from being the toy of a small  geek group to a robust and mature piece of code so much as to start challenging  microsoft windows leadership.
most of the linux distributions are freely available for download from the  internet; fedora from download.fedora.redhat.com suse from novell.com debian from debian.org there are also other links from where you can pull down these  distributions.
and around1992, combining linux with the not-quite-complete gnu system resulted in a complete free operating system, the gnu/linux system.
gnu/linux functions  differently.
and if you do not want to waste time downloading, buy them from  people like osdisc.com, linuxcd.org etc., but i am sure you would definitely  find one, among your colleagues.
no comments ubuntu linux – the best operating system for your computer by eve wilson are you looking for a good alternative for your windows operating system?
gpl (gnu general public license) all the software under the gnu project were distributed under the gpl,  which says that you can copy and distribute exact copies of the program’s  source code as you have received it.
here some solutions with five current problems  under gnu/linux.
ubuntu linux is not only much secure than windows os, but it also includes  free apps and renders safe and fast web browsing.
other way round was to build the community back by writing free programs again.
andrea is a software developer and writes articles online about computers, software and other interesting topics.
the name gnu was chosen for the project following a hacker tradition, as a recursive acronym for “gnu’s not unix”.
after having to seek, to study, read the opinions of users, with the wire of time, on many distributions, two points arise: the first: gnu/linux bureau is a question of taste, the second: not a distribution does not join together the whole of the best options.
tags: debian, gnu, linux, ubuntu linux php vs windows asp web hosting comparison
gnu/linux is not windows thus you enter a new world with new rules.
with gnu/linux, you are in general connect as a  user to restricted access, and you pass as a root (i.e. administrator under  windows) when you must change important parameters of the system or regulate  the hardware configuration or add or remove a program.
mysql works equally well with both windows and linux.
for the most common tasks we can say that every windows program has its free equivalent on linux.
to learn an operating system is a challenge.
the  decision was to implement the kernel as a collection of server processes  running on top of mach, a microkernel developed at carnegie mellon university  and then at the university of utah.
based on the debian gnu/linux distribution this operating system is distributed as free.
the new users of gnu/linux often  make the same errors when they test gnu/linux for the first time.
the decision was to implement the kernel as a collection of server processes running on top of mach, a microkernel developed at carnegie mellon university and then at the university of utah.
according to  the guardian, “in terms of software ubuntu is like the iphone.
finally, a lot of application software was  added both by spontaneous programming groups and by software companies,  creating software collections also known as distributions.
here you get the opportunity to connect to all  your favorite chat channels and make updates.
most computer geeks will advise you to go for linux hosting, as unix – on which linux is based – is a far more secure and stable platform than windows’ alternative.
with this solution you can safeguard the  remainder of your personal and software data on a second partition.
first he began by writing a compiler from scratch, which is now  popularly known as gcc and the gnu emacs editor for writing and editing his  programs.
it is wise to give 75% of the total disk  space to the repertory /home, the majority of the gnu/linux distributions can  make the partitions for you, but they have all various ideas on the number of  partitions to create and their size.
q. are there programs for linux similar to those running on windows?
you can explore the  software categories like, sound and video, graphics, education, games,  programming and office and pick the one according to your need.
by raghu bharadwaj i would like to introduce you to a chronology of events that happened in the early 80′s and 90′s.
so to choose between operating systems, cost and security would have to be the deciding factors.
not only watching, you can also edit your videos with pitivi video editor.
it will be necessary to learn from new software, a new interface, with a new manner of making.
gradually more and more programs were added to the gnu system and most of  them gained popularity as they could run on the unix systems, and users began  extending them and porting them to the various incompatible versions of unix,  and sometimes to other systems as well.
this organization based  on the permissions makes your system protected and one is accustomed quickly,  although that is strange at the beginning.
the name gnu was chosen for the project  following a hacker tradition, as a recursive acronym for “gnu’s
windows servers, on the contrary, are used with scripts written in asp, asp(dot)net or access.
however, it is possible to run the original code  (with some limitations, i guess) using a windows emulator.
this sounded anti-social to the software-sharing community that had existed for many years at the mit, who enjoyed and agreed sharing their programs with universities and companies.
computer repair houston has ubuntu certified professionals who offer you computer services for installing, uninstalling and reinstalling ubuntu linux on your computer.
if you want the very best technologies straight to your desktop, ubuntu linux is the pick for you.
tags: gnu, gpl, linus, linux,  unix, windows beginners under gnu – linux?
a good software deserves that one pays for him it is obvious, but the price must be reasonable the majority of the commercial distributions gnu/linux for the office costs less than $100 and is really very rich.
the commercial distributions gnu/linux include  word processing softwares, p2p, spreadsheet, presentation on transparency,  edition file sharing of video, binary compatibility with windows, virtual  machine, reading of dvd, web server, web navigator, and much of others.
almost anything you’d care to do, there’s an app for that.”
there is much opinion on the gnu/linux distribution with which you will have to start, and the majority are not relevant.
speedwise, there is no clear winner between windows and linux.
in order to obtain the best performances of the system, the file  of exchange is on a separate partition.
windows servers, on the contrary, are used with  scripts written in asp, asp(dot)net or access.
windows hosting comes with the added cost of the os, and certain  applications that the hosting company has to continually pay for.
you must decide if you want to change the  default values.
linux here is substantially cheaper, as it is an open-source system, and most  of its applications are also under gnu public licenses – in other words,  free.
and it has nothing to do with price.
ubuntu linux is also ideal for servers.
this means you  don’t need to pay hefty amount for buying this operating system like that  of windows os.
torvalds has stated,  “making linux gpl’d was definitely the best thing i ever did.”
there are plenty of stunning features of ubuntu linux that make  it one of the best operating systems available in the present days.
tags: debian, gnu, linux, ubuntu linux php vs windows asp web hosting comparison thursday, december  17th, 2009 |linux hosting | 2 comments linux php vs windows asp web hosting comparison
the term distribution meaning that a  great number of software are gathered they also contain thousands of  applications for the office.
essayer linux is not in fact so hard and a thing is sure in any case: more you are frustrated with windows and its problems, more the transition to gnu/linux will be easy.
in order to obtain the best performances of the system, the file of exchange is on a separate partition.
however, cross-platform scripting will never give the smooth performance  that a program does when run on its native platform – it is a bit like  using emulators to run programs that are not native to the os.
linux kernel linus torvalds +1992 linus suggested releasing the kernel under the gnu general public  license.
a good software  deserves that one pays for him it is obvious, but the price must be reasonable  the majority of the commercial distributions gnu/linux for the office costs  less than $100 and is really very rich.
this software is fully compatible with microsoft office.
q. are there many people using linux?
since then free software foundation employees have  written and maintained a number of gnu software packages, two notable ones are  the c library and the shell.
some noted ones are redhat, fedora (an open project by  redhat), debian, suse from novell, mandriva, ubuntu, sabayon, pclinuxos,  simplymepis, knoppix, gentoo etc.
depending on your budget, security concerns and familiarity with the computer language, you can pick either of them and successfully run a dynamic website for a long time to come.
so you, now have the options of choosing the  distribution based on your intended use, like suse, ubuntu, pclinuxos for user  friendliness, debian, fedora for development, redhat for enterprise and so on.
there are five errors to be avoided bydidier pradel to give the desire for testing linux so that it is one day your operating system, is one of the objectives of this site.
this kernel named the gnu hurd (or “herd of gnus”)
all these distributions intend to target  different set of users.
the term distribution meaning that a great number of software are gathered they also contain thousands of applications for the office.
ubuntu some claim that all that is related to linux is free.
gnu/linux functions differently.
there are also plenty of apps that allow the user to fix and share  their photos with the world.
tags: foss, free software foundation, gnu, linus torvalds, linux, richard stallman ubuntu linux – the best operating system for your computer thursday, march 17th, 2011 |learn linux - linux help |
the author of the linux  kernel is basically linus torvalds, a finnish computer science expert who  developed it as an experiment during his university career.
as for the asp-php comparison, asp is almost universally the winner where speed is concerned.
1- to choose its distribution: there is much opinion on the gnu/linux distribution with which you will  have to start, and the majority are not relevant.
he chose to make the system compatible with unix so that it would be portable, and unix users could easily switch to it.
later, a team of volunteers helped him improving and enhancing it.
the community the forums are sources of support as well as the site of your distribution if you chose a distribution commercial.
you can consult a computer repair company for linux setup.
q. is linux easy to learn?
linux and windows are so different that a program written and compiled for  windows won’t run on linux and vice versa.
with windows, you are in general either an administrator, or a user with the rights of administrator.
tags: fedora, gnu, linspire, partition, permissions, suse, ubuntu,  xandros unix, gnu played important role in creation of linux wednesday, may  13th, 2009 |arizona linux |
what is exactly linux?
there is one exception here, though – php runs equally well on windows and linux, so linux-based hosting is no longer essential to run php-based scripts and applications.
it contains the operating system, the applications, the data, and a great space for your file of windows exchange (the software uses space on the hard disk when the read-write memory is not enough any more).
you have the freedom to distribute modified versions of the program,  so that the community can benefit from your improvements.
the most famous are firefox for internet surfing, open office  for office automation (wordprocessing, spreadsheet, presentation, drawing, html  pages, database and more), evolution as an e-mail client, the gimp for photo  and image manipulation.
no comments beginners under gnu – linux?
this operating system is  super-fast and great-looking.
there is a new me menu which allows you to access your facebook and twitter accounts right from the desktop.
linux php hosting are generally more cheaper and faster compare to windows asp hosting.
finally, a lot of application software was added both by spontaneous programming groups and by software companies, creating software collections also known as distributions.
free software foundation as users of emacs were growing, more people were getting involved in the  gnu project, and this forced stallman to look for some funding.
first he began by writing a compiler from scratch, which is now popularly known as gcc and the gnu emacs editor for writing and editing his programs.
when you require dynamic content on your website, such as ecommerce  facilities, forums or other forms of scripting, then you need to pay attention  to your hosting platform.
computer repair houston has ubuntu certified professionals who offer you  computer services for installing, uninstalling and reinstalling ubuntu linux on  your computer.
according to the guardian, “in terms of software ubuntu is like the iphone.
you have the freedom to distribute modified versions of the program, so that the community can benefit from your improvements.
and around1992, combining linux  with the not-quite-complete gnu system resulted in a complete free operating  system, the gnu/linux system.
you must decide if you want to change the default values.
he first announced this decision in the release notes of version 0.12.
however, the learning curve in asp or asp(dot)net is much  steeper than in php – something that can backfire for advanced users  looking for greater control and freedom.
“, because it is there that you will store images, films, and other large files.
not only watching, you can also edit your videos with pitivi video  editor.
but if you  wish to preserve your data and the preferences of the applications which you  use, it is to better do two other partitions for the operating system, the  other for your data and your adjustments.
the author of the linux kernel is basically linus torvalds, a finnish computer science expert who developed it as an experiment during his university career.
today, cross-platform scripting – that is,  scripting with php/perl on windows or with asp/asp(dot)net/access on linux  – is permitted by some isps.
and the most interesting thing is  that you get all these through a single window.
ubuntu 2- is linux free?
if yes, you can consider ubuntu linux.
essayer linux is not in fact so hard and a thing is sure in any case: more you  are frustrated with windows and its problems, more the transition to gnu/linux  will be easy.
in 1991, a student from finland named linus torvalds developed a unix-compatible kernel and called it linux.
linux and windows are so different that a program written and compiled for windows won’t run on linux and vice versa.
there are many people that neither are geeks  nor computer experts turning to linux every day.
q. are unix and linux the same thing?
php, however, is still one of the most popular scripts around thanks to its versatility and the solid, useful applications being written using it.
the gnu project started with an objective to create a “free software” society, here the term “free” is often misunderstood
however, cross-platform scripting will never give the smooth performance that a program does when run on its native platform – it is a bit like using emulators to run programs that are not native to the os.
linux and gnu developers worked to integrate gnu components with linux to  make a fully-functional and free operating system.
the most famous are firefox for internet surfing, open office for office automation (wordprocessing, spreadsheet, presentation, drawing, html pages, database and more), evolution as an e-mail client, the gimp for photo and image manipulation.
find more info from ourfatcow  review and coupon website.
would you like to install this operating system on your computer?
apart from the above mentioned features, there are many more.
3- the partitions: with windows, you are accustomed to only one partition on your hard disk.
most of these  distributors add up their own features, targeting specific areas like  enterprise, desktop, multimedia etc., to the existing gnu system, to cater  diverse user sections.
it still seems strange to most of them that somebody nowadays can use an operating system that neither is windows nor macos.
most computer geeks will advise you to go for linux hosting, as unix  – on which linux is based – is a far more secure and stable  platform than windows’ alternative.
whether you have a netbook, desktop or laptop,  you can easily install this os.
tags: at&t, bell, bsd, foss, gnu, labs, linus, torvalds, unix back to top
pick any of theircomputer repair plan and enjoy hassle-free computing.
considering  all these, it could easily be said that ubuntu linux is the best operating  system for your computer.
you can make changes or modify the program  and again redistribute under the first mentioned condition, with clear notices  of your changes and date of that change.
you can enjoy social networking very easily with this operating system.
least to say programming would be delightful on all of them.
5- to give up with the first problems: gnu/linux is not windows thus you enter a new world with new rules.
there is a new me menu which allows you to access your facebook and twitter  accounts right from the desktop.
as for the asp-php comparison, asp is almost universally the winner where  speed is concerned.
the gnu project started with an objective to create a “free  software” society, here the term “free” is often  misunderstood and it has nothing to do with price.
nowadays  linux is becoming very popular.
so nowadays the name  linux is used for three different things: the kernel, the operating system and  the distribution.
to  learn has to evolve/move in this new world will take time, it is normal.
working on ubuntu linux is a very pleasing experience.
these are some basic answers to questions people ask me when i tell them i use linux.