good luck with that, i haven't found an answer yet.
see www.iredale.net/p/by-topic/unix/desktop for my articles and presentations on this topic.
look at pictures (points to gqiew configured to start at top of picture folder, large icons, etc) in gqview, right click will edit in default picassa i drag the entire games menu to the desktop chat with people (points to pidgin, autologin) i drag kde control center to the desktop, leave it as control center
please drop your suggestions for how to set up  granny's computer in the comment section below.
some still require ms word (dual-boot just for this) because that's what the school teaches and gives assignments on, but for most other tasks they use openoffice for presentation and spreadsheet just fine.
most of the time, that's not the leading question, but it's almost always the root of a myriad of issues.
(speakeasy has worked very well for me, ymmv.)
once i moved all my kids and their mom to linux, with auto-login and nice accessible icons and menus (some kids even found beryl-compiz cool), my support time has been drastically reduced.
she's also "lost" her kmix applet a few times and so couldn't adjust volume until that was restored.
(disclaimer: i haven't installed either of those distros because i actually prefer to install that stuff myself) good list regardless though!
(and maybe some of granny's cookies.)
:)______________________ shawn powers is an associate editor for linux journal.
firefox for web (with very obvious bookmarks on the bookmarks bar), thunderbird for mail, and vlc for watching web-based videos of her grandkids.
listen to music (points to amarok)
and to nicely round off the playing field, for the  better part of a decade, i've been supporting a network of apple computers.
contrary to popular opinion an older user particularly with no windows experience takes to linux easier than a younger person with windows (i.e. bad) experience.
write a letter (points to oo writer, abiword on one low powered machine)
granny wants to email and surf, nothing more.
sounds a lot like what i did for my parents.
if we work together, we can  dominate the elderly desktops of the world in no time.
the first is really only true in geek circles, but the second is true  everywhere i go.
they come pre-installed, have friendly phone  support, and last a long, long time.
before, i had him on windows nt, so he already understood the drill about logging in.
picasa gives her the ability to suck the photos off her digi-cam, correct red-eye, and e-mail (appropriately auto-resized) photos to her friends and family.
a couple of years ago, i had already migrated him from ms office and outlook express over to openoffice.org and thunderbird (he *really* likes thunderbird).
the above are the defaults.
i'm not personally anti-mac, or even anti-windows -- so the apple suggestion is one that makes a lot of sense to me.
logging in is often a tough concept, i don't know  why.
hmm...openoffice.org writer handles the ms word format just fine and has for years.
i do not understand this wholesale phenomenon of operating system as ideological movement.
i did a whole lot of preconfiguring.
most of the  time, that's not the leading question, but it's almost always the root of a  myriad of issues.
one of the common suggestions my fellow geeks give people is to buy a mac.
the reason is that macs generally "just work", and require very little maintenance (read: very few calls to friendly grandsons).
any reason why your kids cannot just use writer and save in ms's format, instead of having to dual-boot like that?
the killer app (though not-libre) is picasa for linux, which installs (and self-updates) on debian/ubuntu the correct way (via apt).
2) remove the delete (if present) and leave the "move to trash".
i've been using linux far longer than it's been the "cool thing" to do.
install things like flash, java, mp3 support, dvd support, video streaming  plugins, and true type fonts.
grip pre-configured to rip into the default music folder of amarok, all set up.
the easy way is with some sort of rsync, preferably done from lvm snapshots.
an external usb drive that holds an rsnapshot archive (with snapshots automatically initiated when the system has been idle for a few minutes or if more than 2-3 days have passed since the last backup) would be my choice.
i also made it possible for me to remotely access their computer.
:) ______________________ shawn powers is an associate editor for linux journal.
though not quite iphoto-easy, it works well enough for a somewhat tech phobic granny.
kmymoney turns out to fill the bill pretty darned nicely.
all this experience means two things: the first is really only true in geek circles, but the second is true everywhere i go.
earlier this year, i set up my dad, who is now a great-grandfather, with centos 5.
even if you're a pro, spyware is a pain in the butt to clean  up.
internet (links to ff) email (links to thunderbird) pre-configure their junk folder, show them how to mark things as junk.
1) show them where downloads from the web are defaulted, change if needed.
literally, the icons are named.
6) change kde so that unmounted cd/dvds icons remain on desktop, make sure that all removable drives/devices show up on desktop when mounted (automount).
hands  down, the number one problem people come to me about is spyware.
note that to support granny remotely one of you is going to need a real internet account, one with a fixed ip.
i've also been around the windows world  longer than windows itself.
they come pre-installed, have friendly phone support, and last a long, long time.
if, for some strange reason, you don't have the bandwidth then use an outside service like rsync.net.
4) enable mouse over previews of everything, including mp3s.
pre-configure any mp3 players in amarok before i turn them loose watch a movie (points to kaffeine, as you said, with all codecs installed) get pictures (points to digikam, preconfigured with default pictures directory)
please drop your suggestions for how to set up granny's computer in the comment section below.
sorry to be mentioning commercial entities in my posts.
they just do not seem to 'get' that we do not use windows here.
i don't mind at all, and i love to help people.
for some reason, even when no cd/dvd there, having the icon is re-assuring.
bibus, gimp, tellico, etc. complement their works.
all  this experience means two things: i sound much cooler than i really am everybody asks me for help when their computers break
i have oemed linux a lot, here are the common links i put on the desktop.
all this sounds reasonable to me.
but what if granny already had a dell that  your dumb cousin eddie convinced her to buy?
granny shouldn't be changing her machine much, except when upgrades happen, so a lot of bandwidth is not necessary.
make yourself an account.
there's rarely reason why the entire box should not be backed up, because someday you will need to restore the whole thing.
5) pre-configure any hardware they use, if required, as sane to the desktop, etc.
configure system updates to run as automatically as possible.
i completely realize i'm a geek.
everyone understands the trash can concept.
really helps when you are living on different continents.
at some point cousin eddie or one of the many other relatives who know granny has a computer are going to generously buy her some wonderful piece of software.
hands down, the number one problem people come to me about is spyware.
you might find him  chattingon the irc channel, or twitter login to save this as favorite
here's a quick list of suggestions to make life easier on you both: and now it's up to you.
this has required zero trouble-shooting on my end, except for an occasional wi-fi failure (which is always related to dsl flakiness and not the wireless network itself).
now granny can have bad passwords and she won't get cracked.
kai staats, ceo of terra soft solutions (the yellow dog linux folks), has a similar story involving his father.
i've been using linux far longer than it's  been the "cool thing" to do.
since linux will run on  anything from a toaster oven to a space station -- unless there's actual  physical damage, the upgrade to linux should cost nothing but some of your  time.
you might find him chattingon the irc channel, or twitter
keep multiple copies.
my mother-in-law (and grandmother of my kids) has been using kubuntu on an ibm thinkpad x30 for a couple years now.
rsnapshot is a great way to keep backups and include a history over time.
and to nicely round off the playing field, for the better part of a decade, i've been supporting a network of apple computers.
it's very simplified and locked down.
reason: seven years of bug fixes, and he's a few thousand miles away, so regular ubuntu-ish or fedora-ish reinstalls aren't an option.
it's quite refreshing)
(i find most  open source enthusiasts tend to have that mindset.
and they're going to be very, very angry at you for 'breaking' her perfectly good windows and replacing it with 'some crap that can't even run common programs like microsoft office and photoshop'.
standardize granny's passwords.
it's for moms and kids too.
make sure granny calls you with questions, not cousin eddie.
chances are, granny's computer hardware is fine.
btw, it's not just for grannies.
raid is not a substitute for backup.
i am affiliated with none of them.
i've also been around the windows world longer than windows itself.
some distros, like linux mint i believe, come with a lot of these things available out of the box as it were.
again, automatic login.
have her  ask you first.
everything is set to auto-login for convenience.
if you're the one with a fixed ip configure granny's box so that when the interface comes up it brings up an openvpn connection into your network.
this does mean that granny needs to leave the machine on, at least sometimes.
put bookmarks on the browser's toolbar.
disable password ssh logins and use public/private keys to get in with your account.
either that or you need some easy button she can press so she can read you her ip number off the screen.
had to install all the multimedia codecs, *adobe* flash (sorry, gnash just ain't ready yet--i wish!), and the kernel video driver to get acceleration and resizing.
don't forget the accessibility feature.
on the lilo screen i created an obviously named entry that boots to runlevel 2 where sshd is loaded.
even if you're a pro, spyware is a pain in the butt to clean up.
i don't know about pclinuxos
but i think they lean towards this philosophy as well.
remind granny not to try buying software from walmart, or online.
therefore, the only app i had to worry about was a quicken 2003 replacement.
other than those minor blips, it's been really painless and quite a testament to the user-friendliness of the modern linux desktop.
i'm not  personally anti-mac, or even anti-windows -- so the apple suggestion is one  that makes a lot of sense to me.
and now it's up to you.
just have granny surf to www.whatismyip.com and have her read it off the screen to you.
label them so granny will  understand.
there's dirvish, rsyncbackup, or whatever.
i had them hooked to firefox, thunderbird, and openoffice in windows before moving them to linux.
after the above, 10-20 minutes watching and helping them, they are on their way, very litle support needed.
if they have questions, fire up krfb and share their desktop to see what's up.
my in-laws still buy our kids windows games every birthday and christmas.
(i find most open source enthusiasts tend to have that mindset.
make the taskbar/panel large install skype and/or instant messaging software, and preconfigure them so
i choose to use linux but i don't force my family to stop being able to use windows software, and theinfinitely better selection of games.
turned out mr. staats needed exceedingly little hand-holding.
tripleii i was looking for a checklist of everything linux does not include when you first install it, and here it is.
3) i demonstrate how to find and install software (if savvy, otherwise, i tell them to call me).
i know this is insecure, but i think it's  worth it.
if we work together, we can dominate the elderly desktops of the world in no time.
it doesn't work well enough, or at all, with a hell of a lot of the software out there.
-syg good suggestions.
here's my post on the topic: http://scienceblogs.com/gregladen/2008/04/is_linux_grandma_ready.php i've taken this line for some time.
since linux will run on anything from a toaster oven to a space station -- unless there's actual physical damage, the upgrade to linux should cost nothing but some of your time.
the reason is that macs generally "just work", and require very  little maintenance (read: very few calls to friendly grandsons).
granny can chat with you.
had this been mid-to-late 2006, i would've chosen kubuntu dapper drake lts.
apr 17, 2008  by   shawn powers in desktop i completely realize i'm a geek.
then you'll aways be able to get to granny.
-syg you forgot backups.
wine is not an answer.
disable root ssh logins.
hi i would like to recommend you very usefu ltorrent search engine - http://torrenttella.com/ you can find a lot of new movies, games and music there.
but what if granny already had a dell that your dumb cousin eddie convinced her to buy?
also had to do a bunch of tweaks to get past the gnome-isms of red hat distros (he runs kde--it looks more "windows-like").
here's a quick list of suggestions  to make life easier on you both: set up automatic login.
one other thing helped out a lot.
always backup to a remote site.