microsoft dos microsoft windows 2000 professional microsoft windows 3.x microsoft windows 7 microsoft windows 95 microsoft windows 98 microsoft windows 98 se microsoft windows ce microsoft windows me microsoft windows nt 4.0 microsoft windows server 2003 microsoft windows server 2008 microsoft windows vista microsoft windows xp microsoft windows xp tablet edition palm os unix ios all licenses demo free shareware trial buy only all categories chat, e-mail, & the web browsers & clients to re-sort this list, click a column heading.
if you use firefox at home and  work, firefox sync will sync your history, bookmarks, and preferences across  computers and will even sync with the firefox mobile app on android.
firefox is one of the more full-featured browsers in our 2012 browser round-up.
the browser includes malware protection that will warn you if you end up clicking on a fraudulent website, as well as an updater to ensure your plug-ins have the latest security patches.
firefox will also work with any security software you have installed on your  computer, using the software to scan downloads for malware.
everywhere 16,641 - google alarm 7,572 - firefox 500,483 - wot web of trust 37,109 see more popular software » firefox - version: 9.01 - downloads count: 500,483 - license type: free - price: free - date added: dec 30, 2011 - operating systems: microsoft windows 7, microsoft windows vista, microsoft windows xp, microsoft windows server 2008, microsoft windows server 2003 - requirements: pentium 4 or newer processor, 512mb ram, 52mb free hard drive space - file size: 14.6 mb - author: mozilla recommended before you download: click here to check your pc for errors » sponsored link download now - pcworld reviewed - user reviews editorial review of firefox
firefox's biggest strength comes from its extensive library of add-ons.
if you are a power user with tons of tabs constantly open, firefox will allow you to collect the tabs into manageable groups, a handy feature for keeping your entertainment tabs separate from your work ones, for instance.
these add-ons can help you completely customize your web browsing and  make firefox infinitely more useful.
submit your review how long have you used this software?
follow us on: - downloads - » chat, e-mail, & the web - » browsers & clients downloads - antivirus & security - design & multimedia - utilities - games - chat, email, & the web - all topics avg user rating 4 popular in browsers & clients - video downloadhelper 55,982 - https
this browser is faster, sleeker, and easier to use in its latest incarnation.
the industry standard idg knowledge hub idg technetwork idg international sites © 1998-2012, pcworld communications, inc.
- google chrome: still a strong all-around browser chrome may not be the perfect browser for everyone, but it’s a well-rounded browser that should fit the needs of most.
days weeks months years on a scale of 1 to 5 stars, how would you rate this product?
i strongly recommend it, no matter what platform you are on.
firefox  has a pop-up filter and supports private browsing.
some add-ons  can turn firefox into a memory hog, slowing down even the beefiest systems.
some add-ons can turn firefox into a memory hog, slowing down even the beefiest systems.
what are this product's weaknesses?
user ratings avg read reviews - google calendar chrome extension 13,535 feb 4, 2011 free filed under: browsers & clients use google calendar from any web page while using chrome.
of  course these can all be changed through the options, but the simplified  interface works well--especially on smaller displays where space is at a  premium.
superior very good good fair poor what are this product's strengths?
- 1 - 2 - 3 - ... - 53 - 54 - 55 - next » - product name 30 day change all-time date added license - video downloadhelper 55,982 jan 31, 2012 free filed under: browsers & clients download and convert videos from youtube and many other sites.
see more file collections »
foo - news - reviews - how-to's - downloads - shop & compare - apps - business center trending: phones | tablets | browsers & add-ons | security | gadgets | operating systems | laptops | desktops | data protection | apple | more - magazine - subscribe & get a bonus cd - digital edition - customer service show
add your review email address password sign
be the first to review lazarus for firefox - easy youtube video downloader 10,075 jun 20, 2011 free filed under: browsers & clients download youtube movies to watch later with this firefox add-on.
took out all my icons of sites that use iocons see more user reviews » sponsored sponsored links you are browsing browsers & clients narrow your results all oss android blackberry linux macintosh os 9 macintosh os x macintosh os x 10.3
everywhere - google alarm 7,572 aug 17, 2010 free filed under: browsers & clients find out whenever information is sent to google servers from your pc.
if you use firefox at home and work, firefox sync will sync your history, bookmarks, and preferences across computers and will even sync with the firefox mobile app on android.
--megan geuss most recent user reviews for firefox not a member?
the bulky toolbar is gone, replaced instead by a row of tabs on the top of the window, and the bookmark bar is hidden by default.
pcworld related content pcworld community - rockmelt browser a swift choice for social media junkies fast, chromium-based rockmelt integrates well with facebook (perhaps too well, depending on your interests).
firefox led the pack in our html5 tests.
app tabs are permanent tabs in firefox that are saved in  the browser.
these add-ons can help you completely customize your web browsing and make firefox infinitely more useful.
the browser includes malware  protection that will warn you if you end up clicking on a fraudulent website,  as well as an updater to ensure your plug-ins have the latest security patches.
be the first to review https
- reviewed by: jdnagle1 03-06-2009 duration of ownership: 0 days strengths: sort of works weaknesses: too many doubles overall evaluation: poor!!
you can save web services you use constantly, such as pandora and gmail, as app tabs.
firefox will also work with any security software you have installed on your computer, using the software to scan downloads for malware.
user ratings avg read reviews - - 1 - 2 - 3 - ... - 53 - 54 - 55 - next » lenovo laptop deals editors' favorite files - thinkpad edge e420 lenovo style in an affordable package buy now direct from lenovo - thinkpad x220 fast and light, with great input ergonomics and battery life, this powerhouse ultraportable is best-of-breed.
firefox's biggest strength comes from its extensive library of  add-ons.
the bulky toolbar is gone, replaced instead by a row of  tabs on the top of the window, and the bookmark bar is hidden by default.
- reviewed by: tailwind 11-14-2009 duration of ownership: 3 months strengths: it's not ie8 weaknesses:
overall evaluation: it is the best browser!
user ratings avg read reviews - wot web of trust 37,109 dec 10, 2010 free filed under: browsers & clients keep yourself safe online with this freebie, which rates sites for safety and privacy.
since its dramatic redesign in version 4.0, firefox has undergone a few  more aesthetic changes.
be the first to review easy youtube video downloader - betterprivacy 65,038 apr 20, 2011 free filed under: browsers & clients delete flash cookies that can track your surfing with this firefox add-on.
firefox is one of the more full-featured browsers in our 2012 browser  round-up.
- reviewed by: rjrex8 01-07-2010 duration of ownership: 1 years strengths: the add on's, awesome bar and clean looks weaknesses: none.
submit - reviewed by: jaypeepacres 02-25-2010 duration of ownership: 1 months strengths: faster than ie; easy access to tabs; vast number of add-ons; quick interface weaknesses: startup is slight sluggish; hangs up when another window is opened; limited number of downloadable themes overall evaluation: above average - reviewed by: livebriand 01-25-2010 duration of ownership: 4 years strengths: faster than ie, more secure, has many addons to customize it (more than many other browsers), personas lets you easily switch themes, avalible for windows, mac, and linux weaknesses: startup time could be a tad better overall evaluation: the best browser i have ever seen, it is way better compared to ie or safari.
there is a downside: the more add-ons you  have installed, the slower firefox will be to start up and run.
so just download it, and dump ie.
there is a downside: the more add-ons you have installed, the slower firefox will be to start up and run.
name city address 1 state zip address 2 e-mail (optional) click here canadian residents | foreign residents | gift subscriptions customer service | privacy policy
in forgot your password?
- create or improve your own websites using these great tools - pcworld's favorite downloads of 2011 - 9 great holiday downloads - free software worth a donation, part 2
of course these can all be changed through the options, but the simplified interface works well--especially on smaller displays where space is at a premium.
firefox has a pop-up filter and supports private browsing.
user ratings avg read reviews - internet explorer 8 7,095 mar 12, 2009 free filed under: browsers & clients check out the latest version of internet explorer and all its new features.
user reviews editorial review of firefox
on our test machine, firefox was the second slowest  at loading web pages, taking on average 9.67 seconds to fully load an  image-heavy page, a lot longer than opera, which only took 3.79 seconds to load  the same webpage.
think of them as bookmarks in tab form.
the browser came in third in  handling javascript, but still beat outopera, internet explorer 9, and safari  by a considerable amount.
since its dramatic redesign in version 4.0, firefox has undergone a few more aesthetic changes.
you can save web services you use constantly, such as pandora and  gmail, as app tabs.
on our test machine, firefox was the second slowest at loading web pages, taking on average 9.67 seconds to fully load an image-heavy page, a lot longer than opera, which only took 3.79 seconds to load the same webpage.
more hi my account minimize hi my account | newsletters | add connections sign in with or create a new account.
firefox 10 is sleeker than its predecessors--although you can still pile on the add-ons.
you - web developer add-on helps you debug web pages in firefox - chrome 15 beats out ie8 as world's most popular browser home products - - android app reviews - iphone app reviews - business center - cameras - camcorders - cell phones & pdas - consumer advice - - desktop pcs - e-readers - gadgets - gaming - hdtv - home theater - - laptops - macs & ipods - monitors - printers - software - spyware & security - - storage - tablets - tech industry - tech events - upgrading - windows - network sites - pcworld business center - search for tech jobs - careers at idg - macworld - macuser - mac os x hints - iphone central - about pcworld - about us - ad choices - advertise - pcworld content works - terms of service agreement - privacy policy - site map - resources - newsletters - faq - contact us - rss feeds - magazine customer service - community standards visit other idg sites: select one cio computerworld idg connect cso demo gamepro games.net infoworld itworld javaworld macworld macuser network world pc world
crashes more than evel knevil overall evaluation: - reviewed by: janetlaker 10-03-2009 duration of ownership: 2 years strengths: everything about firefox weaknesses: no way me friends except not much place for browsing screen overall evaluation: firefox is dominant and will always be my main browser.
how long have you used this software?
if you are a power user  with tons of tabs constantly open, firefox will allow you to collect the tabs  into manageable groups, a handy feature for keeping your entertainment tabs  separate from your work ones, for instance.
be the first to review google alarm - firefox 500,483 dec 30, 2011 free filed under: browsers & clients
user ratings avg read reviews - - lazarus for firefox 2,623 dec 30, 2011 free filed under: browsers & clients bring lost firefox form data back from the dead with this free add-on.
firefox 10 is sleeker than its predecessors--although you can still pile on  the add-ons.
app tabs are permanent tabs in firefox that are saved in the browser.
user ratings avg read reviews - https everywhere 16,641 jul 20, 2011 free filed under: browsers & clients protect yourself from hackers at popular web sites such as facebook.
one of the best netbooks ever, x120e has the best netbook keyboard ever--nothing else comes close buy now direct from lenovo - which browser should you use?
(panther) macintosh os x 10.4
what's your overall evaluation?
the browser came in third in handling javascript, but still beat outopera, internet explorer 9, and safari by a considerable amount.
buy now direct from lenovo - thinkpad x120e
most recent threads - ie 9 favoritesstarted on sun feb 26 19:38:45 pst 2012" - wired hotmail issuestarted on tue feb 21 19:37:29 pst 2012" - igoogle & google +started on tue feb 21 05:57:18 pst 2012" - hijacked email?started on mon feb 20 12:15:52 pst 2012" - programming languagesstarted on mon feb 20 05:27:59 pst 2012" subscribe to the daily downloads newsletter - every weekday see all newsletters » editors' picks - rockmelt browser a swift choice for social media junkies - google chrome: still a strong all-around browser - firefox 10 stays competitive with a multitude of add-ons - avoid annoying ads with adblock plus - visual explorer ultimate - buffering too slow?
watch videos when they're complete with video downloadhelper - free online casual game entanglement will ensnare
(tiger) macintosh os x 10.6 (snow leopard)