they make some good points about computer  software in general, but in the end i'm left with the impression that they're  trying to defend why windows isstill a good choice for signage  applications.
while there is no  question that windows, with it's95%+ market share in the desktop arena dictates  what is good and easy and expected and status-quo for desktop users, the  picture is muchmore fuzzy when it comes to server-based, embedded and  single-purpose applications, asany number of articles will purport to tell you.
in addition, statements like, "you can write a 'leaky' (eats  memory until it crashes) on any operating system, linux or windows," aside  from being in need of a good proof-read, are not 100% true, due to some very  technical differences between the way windows and linux systems work.
hardware, software and expert advice for digital signage and kiosks  skip to main content home products solutions blog  support company news contact customer login latest articles  full article list the digital signage insider industry and news and best practices for  digital signage, m2m and kiosk projects.
they make some good points about computer software in general, but in the end i'm left with the impression that they're trying to defend why windows isstill a good choice for signage applications.
except as provided in wirespring'srepublishing and syndication policy, no articles may be reproduced, in whole or in part, without wirespring's express written consent.
however, scala does note that, "the trick is to understand and test," which i do wholeheartedly agree with.
but when you need a secure, reliability, remotely-managed  operating system, "better" isn't good enough.
we gain all of the strengths of linux, like built in security features and rock-solid reliability, without having to worry about its weaknesses, like the lack of certain software applications important for desktop use.
the question of linux vs. windows for kiosks and digital signage author: bill gerba on 2004-04-17 20:14:00 the question of whether to  use linux or windows software for a kiosk or digital signage project is  obviously one very near and dear to my heart, since i am one of the founders of wirespring, and our firecast product line is one of a very few linux-based  products on the market for these types of projects.
we gain all of the strengths of  linux, like built in security features and rock-solid reliability, without  having to worry about its weaknesses, like the lack of certain software  applications important for desktop use.
while everybody agrees that running a free copy of linux on a $2,000,000ibm  zseries mainframe is more expensive than running a $500 copy of windows on a  $1,500 pc fromdell, no study, research publication or "news" site can  tell you whether windows or linux is right for your project.
i'm still a windows desktop user, and the fewer of windows errors that i see, the better.
in addition, statements like, "you can write a 'leaky' (eats memory until it crashes) on any operating system, linux or windows," aside from being in need of a good proof-read, are not 100% true, due to some very technical differences between the way windows and linux systems work.
i'm still a windows desktop user, and the fewer of windows errors that i  see, the better.
front page of digital signage insider bloglegal stuff: the digital signage insider is written by multiple authors.
of course, since firecast doesn't have to lug  around all of the desktop-oriented baggage that a windows system does, we have  a lot less testing to do.
this again seems to be a point in our favor.
author: bill gerba on 2004-04-17 20:14:00the question of whether to use linux or windows software for a kiosk or digital signage project is obviously one very near and dear to my heart, since i am one of the founders of wirespring, and our firecast product line is one of a very few linux-based products on the market for these types of projects.
since we don't have to worry about the perceived limitations of linux  systems, our purpose-built approach to kiosk and digital signage software is  gaining a lot of attention in the industry.
i appreciate the gains in stability that windows has made over the years.
the author of each article is clearly identified at the start of the article.
while everybody agrees that running a free copy of linux on a $2,000,000ibm zseries mainframe is more expensive than running a $500 copy of windows on a $1,500 pc fromdell, no study, research publication or "news" site can tell you whether windows or linux is right for your project.
all articles are copyright © 2004-2012 by their respective author.
in addition, with access to all of the source-code for thelinux kernel and various open source applications that we use , we can optimize the entire operating system for use in kiosks or digital signs.
in fact, one of ourcompetitors has even gone to the lengths of setting up a "micellaneous[sic] faq " to discuss the situation.
however,  scala does note that, "the trick is to understand and test," which i  do wholeheartedly agree with.
ever since corporate powerhouses like ibm, hp and even sun jumped on the linux bandwagon, it seems that everybody is trying to come up with a cogent argument for why linux is better than windows, or vice-versa.
all content besides the actual article text, e.g. surrounding branding and informational content, is copyright © 2000-2012 wirespring technologies, inc.
since we don't have to worry about the perceived limitations of linux systems, our purpose-built approach to kiosk and digital signage software is gaining a lot of attention in the industry.
the opinions expressed in each article are solely those of the author, and do not reflect the official opinions of wirespring technologies, inc.
but when you need a secure, reliability, remotely-managed operating system, "better" isn't good enough.
at wirespring, we obviously believe in linux as an operating platform  for kiosk and digital signage applications.
ever since corporate powerhouses like ibm, hp and even sun jumped on  the linux bandwagon, it seems that everybody is trying to come up with a cogent  argument for why linux is better than windows, or
while there is no question that windows, with it's95%+ market share in the desktop arena dictates what is good and easy and expected and status-quo for desktop users, the picture is muchmore fuzzy when it comes to server-based, embedded and single-purpose applications, asany number of articles will purport to tell you.
at wirespring, we obviously believe in linux as an operating platform for kiosk and digital signage applications.
in fact, one of ourcompetitors has  even gone to the lengths of setting up a "micellaneous[sic] faq " to discuss the situation.
i appreciate the gains in stability that windows has made over the  years.
of course, since firecast doesn't have to lug around all of the desktop-oriented baggage that a windows system does, we have a lot less testing to do.
in addition, with access to all of the  source-code for thelinux kernel and various open source applications that we use , we can optimize the entire operating system for use in kiosks or digital  signs.