on a linux-based server, you have to first look for the right distribution, then the right patch, download it, decompress it, run the script, and then make sure everything works correctly.
case studies provide technical decision-makers with concrete examples of  how adapting technology can help solve business problems.
souhil: we have a hoster-specific license agreement with microsoft, so all of our licenses go through that agreement.
meet the team: souhil benammour, president since 2003.
we have had many customers come to us through microsoft sites and  microsoft-based channels.
with windows, i think we all feel a bit more comfortable in knowing that it is going to operate as we expect it to.
michael's primary role is focused on architecting and implementing  the infrastructure needed to support the web hosting business.
we chatted with  souhil benammour and michael butler of outsource information systems to get  their perspectives on the customer-driven and ever-changing industry of web  hosting.
it will give potential customers choice in where they  run php-based applications.
if you don't have access to sql server enterprise manager, this tool will allow you to fully manage your database right from a web page!
outsource information systems offers affordable asp.net 2.0/3.5 hosting solutions including microsoft sql server 2005 and microsoft reporting services.
souhil: it is definitely easier to patch an application running on windows than one running on linux.
our plans allow for true multiple domain web hosting, sql server 2005 management.
i know that there are a lot more open source applications, web applications, cms applications, and others that are going to be used on top of iis.
nowhere else will you find our level of features, high availability windows servers, and 1st class technical support.
we also saw that with the release of windows server 2003, microsoft was  making a push to get hosters on windows.
outsource information systems made a commitment to microsoft technologies early on as their platform of choice for web hosting, and they have seen the strength of that choice grow over time: michael butler: i am one of the co-owners along with souhil.
one of the things that microsoft helps us with is that  they bring us leads and they help us to identify and target the right ones to  go after.
microsoft had done a good job of providing documentation and a strong sdk  for new web development technologies such as asp.net.
one of the things that microsoft helps us with is that they bring us leads and they help us to identify and target the right ones to go after.
about us outsource information systems provides web hosting and development services, as well as pc and network support, to customers in the private and public sectors.
how do you feel about microsoft offering php support on windows server?
trying to go out there and find customers on your own can be a very expensive proposition.
thebeerhouse starter kit enables you to implement a website with functionality typically associated with a cms/e-commerce site the paypal-enabled ecommerce starter kit is an extensible open source web application that allows you to setup and manage your own ecommerce web site.
his primary role in the company is to enhance the existing infrastructure and hosting workflow by using different microsoft solutions and technologies.
we have customers coming to us from all over the world.
i think that is one of the reasons the gap has definitely narrowed.
outsource information systems is a participant in the hosting code of ethics™ program as of 25-feb-2010.
we decided to go with microsoft because we felt that microsoft had some great new emerging technology at the time such as asp.net, and we also thought sql server was a very strong database platform.
with linux, i had some issues that i couldn't initially  fix on my own.
first, there are more and more open source projects and open source applications supported on windows.
that made it a very good time to get  into the hosting business with microsoft.
both souhil and i come from a long it background, with each of us having approximately 20 years of it experience.
what are some differences that you as a hoster see between linux and  windows?
i know that there are a lot more open source  applications, web applications, cms applications, and others that are going to  be used on top of iis.
people are more trusting of iis now, and they are more confident in its ability to deliver.
dotnetnuke is a web application framework ideal for creating and deploying projects such as commercial web sites, corporate intranets and extranets, online publishing portals, and custom vertical applications.
he is also responsible for vendor relationships and regularly  consults directly with customers on designing their own microsoft  infrastructure solutions.
with windows, i think we all feel a bit more  comfortable in knowing that it is going to operate as we expect it to.
easily manage your sql server databases wherever you are!
that made it a very good time to get into the hosting business with microsoft.
ois was focused on microsoft technologies from early on, and lately we have started offering virtual private servers, which we feel will be the next generation of hosting.
in this area, the big problem that i have with linux is that there are  tons and tons of software libraries and a number of small tools, and that can  make it hard to determine what approach to take to solve a problem and which  application to install to solve it the best way.
there is a cost for that in the form of an up-front license cost, but with the revenue we get from the windows hosting side of our business, the cost for licenses isn’t a burden.
most of his expertise has been gained in the field working as a consultant and microsoft certified systems engineer.
we have customers coming to us from all over the  world.
michael: they have a number of resources for hosters to  take advantage of, from broad-based marketing resources to lead-generation  tools.
and the second thing is that there is better php  compatibility with windows and iis.
what about configuring each platform?
microsoft had done a good job of providing documentation and a strong sdk for new web development technologies such as asp.net.
a conversation with president and cto souhil benammour & michael butler (respectively) of outsource information systems.
copyright © 2010 oissite.com.
souhil: we decided to go with microsoft because we felt  that microsoft had some great new emerging technology at the time such as  asp.net, and we also thought sql server was a very strong database platform.
at 99.99% overall uptime, outsource information systems's uptime is considered excellent.
on  a linux-based server, you have to first look for the right distribution, then  the right patch, download it, decompress it, run the script, and then make sure  everything works correctly.
souhil benammour: i am the co-owner along with michael.
his major experience and strengths includes  development of web applications for the real estate industry and web 2.0  technologies using microsoft asp.net and sql server.
michael's primary role is focused on architecting and implementing the infrastructure needed to support the web hosting business.
that makes it hard to maintain a server.
his major experience and strengths includes development of web applications for the real estate industry and web 2.0 technologies using microsoft asp.net and sql server.
michael often collaborates closely with souhil to anticipate what future products and services their customers will be looking for, what technologies will meet those needs, and how best to get out ahead of the curve with research and development.
michael butler,  cto since 2003.
both souhil and i come from a  long it background, with each of us having approximately 20 years of it  experience.
what about cost differences between linux and windows? souhil: we have a hoster-specific license agreement with  microsoft, so all of our licenses go through that agreement.
microsoft also made it easy to purchase windows as a hoster, in terms of  keeping the overall cost for licenses low.
souhil: a bad point about linux is
microsoft also made it easy to purchase windows as a hoster, in terms of keeping the overall cost for licenses low.
he is also responsible for vendor relationships and regularly consults directly with customers on designing their own microsoft infrastructure solutions.
michael: they have a number of resources for hosters to take advantage of, from broad-based marketing resources to lead-generation tools.
michael: there are always going to be more question marks  around configuring a linux server.
most of his expertise has been  gained in the field working as a consultant and microsoft certified systems  engineer.
we saw a lot of developers becoming interested in building applications on top of asp.net and windows.
linux is free, of course, but with microsoft you get a consistent, secure  server.
there are definitely different approaches to  patching when you compare windows and linux.
case studies provide technical decision-makers with concrete examples of how adapting technology can help solve business problems.
souhil benammour, cofounder of outsource information systems has over  20 years of experience in information technology, software development web  development and project management.
we also saw that with the release of windows server 2003, microsoft was making a push to get hosters on windows.
souhil: by offering php on windows, microsoft recognized  that php is in use by a fair number of developers, so i think offering php on  windows is a good thing.
first,  there are more and more open source projects and open source applications  supported on windows.
and the second thing is that there is better php compatibility with windows and iis.
in terms of keeping systems patched, what differences have you seen  between linux and windows?
souhil: a bad point about linux is that it can’t simply be a black box.
the stability is there now, and the feature set has increased to the point where the gap has closed between iis and some of the other competitive web servers.
whether you are just starting out, or are an experienced web site owner, outsource information systems is here to serve you!
we have had many customers come to us through microsoft sites and microsoft-based channels.
webmail includes all the features you need to use and enjoy email: spell check, a complete address book, email statistics, and much more!
by offering php on windows, microsoft recognized that php is in use by a fair number of developers, so i think offering php on windows is a good thing.
michael often  collaborates closely with souhil to anticipate what future products and  services their customers will be looking for, what technologies will meet those  needs, and how best to get out ahead of the curve with research and  development.
michael: microsoft has improved iis over time.
why go with microsoft?
read more about oissite in our about page.
with linux, i had some issues that i couldn't initially fix on my own.
trying to go out there and find customers on your own can be a very  expensive proposition.
key findings: outsource information systems made a commitment to microsoft technologies  early on as their platform of choice for web hosting, and they have seen the  strength of that choice grow over time: partnering with microsoft helps ois identify business leads that help fuel  the firm's continuing success patching windows applications is simpler than corresponding linux-based  patching the revenue associated with ois's windows hosting business prevents  licensing costs from being a burden
souhil: it is definitely easier to patch an application  running on windows than one running on linux.
we chatted with souhil benammour and michael butler of outsource information systems to get their perspectives on the customer-driven and ever-changing industry of web hosting.
i had to just basically copy and paste some things i found without really knowing what was going on after i applied the fix.
souhil benammour, cofounder of outsource information systems has over 20 years of experience in information technology, software development web development and project management.
basically, we report on a monthly basis how many licenses we need and go from there.
what are your thoughts on the fact that the number of iis-based web  servers are essentially on par with the number of apache-based web servers?
there is a cost for that in the form of an up-front license cost, but  with the revenue we get from the windows hosting side of our business, the cost  for licenses isn’t a burden.
there is no doubt about that.
learn more outsource information systems provides helm control panel you with total site management allowing you to control every aspect of your web site and web application!
we saw a lot of  developers becoming interested in building applications on top of asp.net and  windows.
has microsoft been able to help you drive new business for ois?
a conversation with souhil benammour and michael butler of outsource information systems.
his primary role in the  company is to enhance the existing infrastructure and hosting workflow by using  different microsoft solutions and technologies.
outsource information systems is a guaranteed host guaranteed by comparewebhost.
with  linux, it might be free and all, but there seems to be more work to get things  to really work right.
michael: there are always going to be more question marks around configuring a linux server.
the  stability is there now, and the feature set has increased to the point where  the gap has closed between iis and some of the other competitive web servers.
or read the  full article below: "using windows as a solid, dependable hosting platform" a conversation with souhil benammour & michael butler of outsource  information systems outsource information systems provides web hosting and development  services, as well as pc and network support, to customers in the private and  public sectors.
people are more trusting of iis now, and they are more confident in its ability  to deliver.
michael butler, cofounder of outsource information systems (ois), has  over 20 years of experience in the it industry.
that it can’t  simply be a black box.
michael butler, cofounder of outsource information systems (ois), has over 20 years of experience in the it industry.
we incorporated the company back in 2003.
michael butler: i am one of the co-owners along with  souhil.
it will give potential customers choice in where they run php-based applications.
the growth in windows as a hosting platform is aided by increased support  for open source applications, as well as improved php compatibility questions: souhil and michael, can you give us some information on your background  and on ois?
with linux, it might be free and all, but there seems to be more work to get things to really work right.
i had to just basically copy and paste some things i found  without really knowing what was going on after i applied the fix.
in this area, the big problem that i have with linux is that there are tons and tons of software libraries and a number of small tools, and that can make it hard to determine what approach to take to solve a problem and which application to install to solve it the best way.
linux is free, of course, but with microsoft you get a consistent, secure server.
ois was focused on  microsoft technologies from early on, and lately we have started offering  virtual private servers, which we feel will be the next generation of hosting.
there are definitely different approaches to patching when you compare windows and linux.
souhil: i think this is happening for two reasons.
read about working with windows learn more about linux see which is best for you get to know the president of oissite meet the cto of oissite interview with microsoft view the interview originally on the microsoft website here.
basically, we  report on a monthly basis how many licenses we need and go from there.
have you seen some key differences?