there is much opinion on the gnu/linux distribution with which you will have to start, and the majority are not relevant.
you may be able to “break” these rules with other hard disk partitioning utilities.
installing win4linpro win4linpro is now distributed and supported by virtual bridges.
multi booting is useful in many situations, such as those where several pieces of software require different operating systems and cannot be run on a single system.
make sure you use manual, so that we can install it on a btrfs file system.
before we proceed, do keep in mind that this tutorial is optimized for the current version of linux mint made available on their main website on january 11,2012, which is still a release candidate.
“setting up” linux hard disk partitions you can “set up” and configure your linux partitions while using the installation routine of most linux distributions – and also by using the linux fdisk and parted commands – and some other partitioning commands.
you must decide if you want to change the default values.
you can easily order it online at the win4lin.com site and download either an iso version or one of the debian or rpm packages.
you log in with a user name and password to work on a linux system.
to learn an operating system is a challenge.
you can preserve your windows partition and thanks to the dual-boot to choose to start your computer either under windows or under gnu/linux.
linux tip: to get linux delivered, just do an internet search for  “linux cd” and you can have it mailed to you anywhere in the world  for a very small fee.
also, if you install linux and then remove it later, you may not be able to boot into windows.
ubuntu some claim that all that is related to linux is free.
to deal with such installs requires consultation with linux afficionados and techs, who are typically well-versed in the concept.
and now i would like to offer you free access to my linux commands training mini-course, a 7 lesson, daily mini-course, including the free linux commands ebook and linux audio podcasts – showing you how to get started learning how to use linux commands.
but once passed this stage hardest is made.
this allows you  to actually work with linux to run programs and learn linux commands.
if you have 512 mb or 1gb of read-write  memory the size the partition of exchange (swap) should not be lower than 512  mb, and not lower than 1gb if you have less than 512 mb of read-write memory.
you work as the user named “root” to do linux system  administration.
select the appropriate disk and click on the new partition table button.
this organization based  on the permissions makes your system protected and one is accustomed quickly,  although that is strange at the beginning.
the personal windows environment is normally created by win4linpro in the home directory of the user who performs the installation.
the new users of gnu/linux often make the same errors when they test gnu/linux for the first time.
(see master boot record and extended  boot record).
your linux home directory is accessible from the windows hosthome path.
these include the linux software programs and desktop(s) you want installed,  networking settings, and disk partition sizes.
multi booting is useful in many situations, such as those where several  pieces of software require different operating systems and cannot be run on a  single system.
the linux disk partitioning concepts covered here apply to: debian, red hat, fedora, ubuntu, slackware, suse, opensuse – and all other linux distributions.
select the free space, and then click on the add button so that the first partition can be created.
it is wise to give 75% of the total disk space to the repertory /home, the majority of the gnu/linux distributions can make the partitions for you, but they have all various ideas on the number of partitions to create and their size.
those which want to install linux on a laptop will find herethe linux laptop support a list of the laptop on which that was already done.
but if you  wish to preserve your data and the preferences of the applications which you  use, it is to better do two other partitions for the operating system, the  other for your data and your adjustments.
you must install windows in first to make only one partition but not too large not to obstruct the installation of gnu/linux after.
this is  empty disk space that isn’t seen from within windows.
no comments beginners under gnu – linux?
if a hard disk has an extended  partition, then it has at least one logical partition in that partition.
the basic concept involves partitioning a disk, to accommodate each planned installation, including separate partitions for data storage or backups.
fortunately, those who choose to run linux with btrfs do have options on installing useful components such as the highly coveted linux mint 12 kde.
to learn has to evolve/move in this new world will take time, it is normal.
essayer linux is not in fact so hard and a thing is sure in any case: more you are frustrated with windows and its problems, more the transition to gnu/linux will be easy.
there are five errors to be avoided bydidier pradel to give the desire for testing linux so that it is one day your operating  system, is one of the objectives of this site.
ubuntu 2- is linux free?
learn more about free and popular linux distributions to use on your low cost dedicated server.
you can mount the original windows partition in the linux /mnt directory by using a command such as: $sudo mount /dev/sdb3 /media/windows -t vfat -o umask=000
the root user is always created automatically during the  installation.
linux system admin training tips: keep in mind that the “rules” below apply to using the linux fdisk command, which is the most commonly used disk partitioning utility.
(see master boot record and extended boot record).
4- the permissions: with windows, you are in general either an administrator, or a user with  the rights of administrator.
these include the linux software programs and desktop(s) you want installed, networking settings, and disk partition sizes.
there will now be a free space option on your menu.
also, as a linux system administrator, you will also need to manage  (create, delete, and modify) partitions on existing linux systems (after the os  has been installed).
in order to obtain the best performances of the system, the file of exchange is on a separate partition.
no comments linux training – installing linux on a windows system
the reasons of these errors are numerous: because gnu/linux is a different os; because windows gives bad habits; because the user chooses the bad distribution and much of other possibilities.
by clyde  e. boom the best way to get linux training and linux administration experience is  to start by getting, installing and running linux on a system.
the partitions should be done with a windows partitioning tool (diskpart,disk management), rather than a linux tool (parted, qtparted), for the simple reason that windows is more particular (cf.
after the computer has booted, the linux mint 12 kde installation should be on your desktop.
i normally used my laptop pc during the day in a company that had a windows based lan and therefore i normally had to boot in windows during the day whereas i would boot into either windows or linux at home.
an extended partition is not accessed directly.
just click to download my free new linux commands training course book and linux audio podcast (.mp3) files here:linux commands training mini-course clyde boom says “learn how to use linux commands with easy, self-paced linux training materials that show you how to run hundreds of examples of the essential linux system administration commands – and get that new and better job, promotion, raise – or keep your current job!”
linux tools are powerful, (ie.
after having to seek, to study, read the opinions of users, with the wire  of time, on many distributions, two points arise: the first: gnu/linux bureau is a question of taste, the second: not a distribution does not join together the whole of the best  options.
the term distribution meaning that a  great number of software are gathered they also contain thousands of  applications for the office.
the win4linpro environment is surely much better integrated with linux than a native windows installation and you will have at your disposal the power of linux and windows applications without any need to reboot.
it is accessed via one or more logical partitions within the extended partition.
you work as the user named “root” to do linux system administration.
with gnu/linux, you are in general connect as a  user to restricted access, and you pass as a root (i.e. administrator under  windows) when you must change important parameters of the system or regulate  the hardware configuration or add or remove a program.
double check that all three of these partitions were created properly.
if you need more than four hard disk partitions, you need to create at least one extended partition and then create one or more logical partitions in the extended partition.
linuxcommandstrainingcourse.comtags: fdisk, partition linux training – installing linux on a windows system
when you’re doing linux disk partitioning (during or after installing  linux) you will likely run into situations where you can’t create  partitions – and can’t do other tasks that you’d like to do  with partitions!
also, as a linux system administrator, you will also need to manage (create, delete, and modify) partitions on existing linux systems (after the os has been installed).
if you don’t want to buy a computer just for the purpose of running  linux, you can install linux on your windows system.
always create at least one “regular” (non- root) user and  give this user a password.
there are five errors to be avoided saturday, october 3rd, 2009 |learn linux - linux help |
it is a  good solution if you never change hard disk or operating system.
excellent resources below: how to dual boot windows xp and linux (xp installed first) — the  step-by-step guide with screenshots illustrated dual boot site – awesome site with all things linux!
you may be able to  “break” these rules with other hard disk partitioning utilities.
you can only have one extended  partition and the maximum number of thecombination of  primary and extended partitions is four.
however, for security reasons, you should never log in to a linux  desktop as the root user.
you can also use the shared documents directory from windows by double clicking on the windows my documents icon and accessing the path hostdocuments.
on  other systems, you may simply need to hold down a key, like the letter  “c” to boot linux from cd / dvd.
this isn’t just free disk space, as seen from within windows.
stick the downloaded package onto either a dvd or a usb stick, and boot the computer accordingly.
a multi boot configuration will allow a user to use all of this  software on one computer.
the boot manager/loader should be installed by the linux distribution.
the b-tree file system (abbreviated to acronym btrfs) has not matured far enough to be used as a default file system on linux machines.
if you have 512 mb or 1gb of read-write memory the size the partition of exchange (swap) should not be lower than 512 mb, and not lower than 1gb if you have less than 512 mb of read-write memory.
the commercial distributions gnu/linux include word processing softwares, p2p, spreadsheet, presentation on transparency, edition file sharing of video, binary compatibility with windows, virtual machine, reading of dvd, web server, web navigator, and much of others.
start the linux installation routine to start installing linux, you need to shut down your system and boot it with linux cd / dvd number 1.
create empty unpartitioned disk space for linux make sure your system has enough empty unpartitioned disk space for linux.
for those who are not familiar, linux mint 12 kde is a linux distribution based on the ubuntu desktop operating system, and is gaining massive popularity in the past couple of months in the world of the low cost dedicated server running linux.
to avoid loosing useful data, i performed following activities: making the above copies in the win4linpro environment is relatively easy, because win4linpro can access mnt directly.
there are several linux hard disk partition “types”, such as primary, extended and logical – and there are also strict “rules” about using these linux partition types.
this is often accomplished by using a  boot loader that can boot more than one operating system, such as ntldr, lilo,  or grub.
“picky”) about how the  partition table is written and will occasionally complain or even show errors  if its installed to a linux-created (or sometimes modified) partition table.
by emma rosenberg in this tutorial, the reader will learn how to install the linux mint 12 kde on a btrfs filesystem.
after the installation is complete, if you have used the defaults, you will find a windows icon on your desktop and you can use it to start or shut-down your windows session terminal.
the main steps are as following: when you are sure that everything works correctly, you can remove the /home.old directory.
linux extended partitions a linux hard disk must have at least one primary partition before it can have an exteneded partition.
regardless, the stable version will likely have an identical installation process as the current release candidate, so it should not affect the validity of this article.
you must install windows in first to make only one partition but not  too large not to obstruct the installation of gnu/linux after.
partition numbering the maximum number of primary partitions that fdisk can create is four and  the maximum number of extended partitions that it can create is one.
by the way…do you want to learn exactly how to use linux and run  linux commands for linux system administration and get real, practical linux  training experience by running hundreds of examples of linux commands?
installing a linux distribution on a btrfs file system will require three partitions.
however, for security reasons, you should never log in to a linux desktop as the root user.
make sure the target disk has been initialized before you create the partitions.
the commercial distributions gnu/linux include  word processing softwares, p2p, spreadsheet, presentation on transparency,  edition file sharing of video, binary compatibility with windows, virtual  machine, reading of dvd, web server, web navigator, and much of others.
tags: fedora, gnu, linspire, partition, permissions, suse, ubuntu,  xandros dual booting linux and windows monday, may 11th, 2009 | arizona linux  |no comments multi boot or multi booting (usually dual booting, but many oses can be booted from the same  computer) is the act of installing multiple operating systems on a computer,  and being able to choose which one to boot when switching on the computer  power.
you must decide if you want to change the  default values.
it is useless to make a larger partition if you use your machine only for  office automation applications.
by default win4linpro automatically configures shared folders so that windows can access linux files and linux can access windows files.
make the partition type logical.
alternatively you can use the win4 shell command.
even though we are installing on a btrfs file system, make the boot partition as a ext4 file system.
i found that the wine or codeweavers crossover supported most common microsoft windows applications, but some other ones would not work.
you do this to create what is called a “dual boot” (linux and windows) system.
the root user is always created automatically during the installation.
virtual bridges confirms the order with an e-mail which includes also the licence code that must be entered during the installation.
to be able to use the disk space in an extended partition, it must have at least one logical partition (within the extended partition).
this approach has a few disadvantages as follows: i concluded that there should have been a better way to use my pc and i looked for a solution to access both linux and windows applications without rebooting.
mount point will be set as /.
another reason for setting up a multi boot system can  be that one wants to investigate or test a new operating system without  switching completely.
when the installation is complete, you will find two image files with the .img suffix which are used by windows as the c: drive (used to store windows programs and data) and the d: drive (used to store user settings).
then, make sure the btrfs journaling file system option is chosen for this partition.
didier pradel is the webmaster of laptop support and the linux laptop support where you can find many useful informations, and help for your lovely laptop.
it’s extra incentive to  do a backup.
for start with gnu/linux, it is to advise to choose among the following  distributions, withoutorder: professional suse and, in the future, opensuse linspire xandros mandriva (in the past mandrake)
mario pesce – computer consultant email: mario@datamission.co.uk blog: http://mariopesceuk.blogspot.com/tags: boot, dual, linux hosting ,partition, security understanding linux partition types & linux hard disk partitioning – system admin training
a multi boot configuration will allow a user to use all of this software on one computer.
fdisk cannot create more than one extended partition per drive.
3 swap the size depends on  the number of software which you install, but 20 gb are more than sufficient  for the partition root “/”root, the largest part of your disc must  be to hold has” /home
linux extended partitions a linux hard disk must have at least one primary partition before it can  have an exteneded partition.
the majority of the remaining disk space can be put on this file system, leaving only 4 gb for the last partition.
since i had an rpm based linux distribution (opensuse 11.0), i downloaded the rpm package.
by getting it, installing it, and running it, you can get tons of experience working with it.
you log in with a user  name and password to work on a linux system.
finally, use the partition as swap area under the use as drop down menu.
it is often difficult to use only linux, because one normally has to work in windows based lans, interact with other windows or linux users or just because one is too lazy to learn new applications instead of those normally used in a windows environment.
but if you wish to preserve your data and the preferences of the applications which you use, it is to better do two other partitions for the operating system, the other for your data and your adjustments.
click on the “install linux mint” icon on the desktop.
the new version allows windows to connect to almost any type of ethernet network from regular internet access to active directory authentication, and anything in between.
when you’re doing linux disk partitioning (during or after installing linux) you will likely run into situations where you can’t create partitions – and can’t do other tasks that you’d like to do with partitions!
gnu/linux is not windows thus you enter a new world with new rules.
here some solutions with five current problems  under gnu/linux.
selecting manual will pull up the advanced disk partitioning tool.
i installed various applications such as microsoft office, acrobat reader, eudora, hotmetal pro and a new version of internet explorer without any problem.
you can preserve your windows partition and thanks to the  dual-boot to choose to start your computer either under windows or under  gnu/linux.
the new users of gnu/linux often  make the same errors when they test gnu/linux for the first time.
with windows, you are in general either an administrator, or a user with the rights of administrator.
always create at least one “regular” (non- root) user and give this user a password.
by clyde e. boom the best way to get linux training and linux administration experience is to start by getting, installing and running linux on a system.
a disk space of 500 mb should be plenty for this partition, so go ahead and put 500 mb.
by the way…do you want to learn exactly how to use linux and run linux commands for linux system administration and get real, practical linux training experience by running hundreds of examples of linux commands?
the basic concept involves partitioning a disk, to accommodate each planned  installation, including separate partitions for data storage or backups.
those which want to install linux on a laptop will  find herethe linux laptop support a list of the laptop on which that was  already done.
didier pradel is the webmaster of laptop support and the linux laptop  support where you can find many useful informations, and help for your lovely  laptop.
multi booting can also aid software developers where multiple operating  systems are required for development or testing purposes.
you can easily save your windows directory as a tar archive and many viruses will not have any effect as explained below: another protection is given by the snapshot running mode which insures that data in the c: virtual drive cannot be changed win4lin limitations and peculiarities.
you can only have one extended partition and the maximum number of thecombination of primary and extended partitions is four.
to  learn has to evolve/move in this new world will take time, it is normal.
you can get your instant access at: http://www.linuxcommandstrainingcourse.com from clyde boom – the easy linux training guy – easy, self-paced linux training – in plain english!tags: boot, dual, partition, windows beginners under gnu – linux?
all  windows installations will be easily found by linux, but windows boot managers  do not find linux installations (nor does windows deal natively with linuxfile  systems).
a good software deserves that one pays for him it is obvious, but the price must be reasonable the majority of the commercial distributions gnu/linux for the office costs less than $100 and is really very rich.
just click to download my free new linux commands training course book and  linux audio podcast (.mp3) files here:linux commands training mini-course clyde boom says “learn how to use linux commands with easy,  self-paced linux training materials that show you how to run hundreds of  examples of the essential linux system administration commands – and get  that new and better job, promotion, raise – or keep your current  job!”
5- to give up with the first problems: gnu/linux is not windows thus you enter a new world with new rules.
conclusions i believe that the approach described above allows an optimal use of both linux and windows resources.
(however hardware costs are counterbalanced by system management costs, and the costs of the unavailability of the software that cannot be run at any given moment.
to be able to create an extended partition on a hard disk that already has  four primary partitions, you need to delete one of the primary partitions and  then create the extended partition.
all windows installations will be easily found by linux, but windows boot managers do not find linux installations (nor does windows deal natively with linuxfile systems).
to do this, you use the fdisk command / utility or the parted command / utility – and there are also other disk partitioning commands and utilities.
get linux on cd or dvd select a linux distribution (a.k.a. distro) and either download it and burn it to disk or buy it and have it delivered.
now that the boot partition has been created, select the remaining free space and once again, press the add button to create the next partition.
vmware looked interesting, but finally i decided to buywin4lin (originally developed by netraverse to support only windows 95, 98 or me, even if it allowed to install and use many more recent applications such as office 2000 or other ones developed for xp without a glitch.
shrinking an ntfs drive) but windows has particularities which must be considered.
you can get your instant access at:  http://www.linuxcommandstrainingcourse.com from clyde boom – the easy linux training guy – easy,  self-paced linux training – in plain english!
multi booting allows one to get to know the new system,  configure all applications needed and migrate data before making the final step  and removing the old operating system.
this time this partition is for /, which is the main file system.
i had some problems with the original installation to use a com device for a dial up connection.
to be able  to use the disk space in an extended partition, it must have at least one  logical partition (within the extended partition).
with this solution you can safeguard the remainder of your personal and software data on a second partition.
the original product required to copy files from your windows 95, 98 or me cd to disk and eventually install windows.
3- the partitions: with windows, you are accustomed to only one partition on your hard disk.
the win4console allows also to install multiple copies of windows and the system allows to run two of them concurrently (this could be useful if you want to have a windows xp and a windows 2000 session).
you can get your instant access to my free linux commands training course  at:http://www.
using win4linpro win4linpro creates an interesting windows environment which is pretty well integrated with linux.
after having to seek, to study, read the opinions of users, with the wire of time, on many distributions, two points arise: the first: gnu/linux bureau is a question of taste, the second: not a distribution does not join together the whole of the best options.
it is accessed via one or more logical  partitions within the extended partition.
partition numbering the maximum number of primary partitions that fdisk can create is four and the maximum number of extended partitions that it can create is one.
but if you do, you’ll be very glad you took this extra step.
this is often accomplished by using a boot loader that can boot more than one operating system, such as ntldr, lilo, or grub.
it  will be necessary to learn from new software, a new interface, with a new  manner of making.
it will be necessary to learn from new software, a new interface, with a new manner of making.
the linux operating system is an incredible phenomenon.
get linux on cd or dvd select a linux distribution (a.k.a. distro) and either download it and burn  it to disk or buy it and have it delivered.
linux tip: to get linux delivered, just do an internet search for “linux cd” and you can have it mailed to you anywhere in the world for a very small fee.
no comments understanding linux partition types & linux hard disk partitioning  – system admin training
it contains the operating system, the applications, the data, and a great space  for your file of windows exchange (the software uses space on the hard disk  when the read-write memory is not enough any more).
to be able to create an extended partition on a hard disk that already has four primary partitions, you need to delete one of the primary partitions and then create the extended partition.
this activity is described in detail below.
a popular multi-boot configuration is a mixed-os system in which linux is one of the secondary (or primary) installations.
two disk partitioning options are available, default and manual.
the objective of this report is to give you an overview of the new win4linpro application and of the approach that i followed to migrate my dual boot machine to a single boot system.
if you need more than four hard disk partitions, you need to create at  least one extended partition and then create one or more logical partitions in  the extended partition.
using the freed partition for linux a good description of how to move /home to a different partition can be found in a good tutorial by daniel robbins at ibm developerworks.
to deal with such installs requires consultation with linux afficionados and  techs, who are typically well-versed in the concept.
and if you want to exchange files between the windows partition and the gnu/linux partition, use the filing system fat32 to format your windows partition (window does not read the partition linux and linux does not read partitions ntfs whereas it can read and write easily on a system fat32).
the first partition is a boot partition, which is mounted at the /boot.
the installation procedure of the original win4lin was more complex because it required to download a special netraverse-enabled kernel according to each distribution.
following main points should be considered: .
once i was satisfied that all important data existed in the win4linpro environment, i decided to reformat the windows partition and copy my linux /home
you can specify that you want to install from the xp cd and the installation is performed as if it were a normal xp installation.
linux primary partitions the disk partitioning utility in a linux installation routine and the fdisk  command (and other disk partitioning commands) can create a maximum of four  primary partitions per hard disk drive.
tags: fedora, gnu, linspire, partition, permissions, suse, ubuntu, xandros multi boot or multi booting (usually dual booting, but many oses can be booted from the same computer) is the act of installing multiple operating systems on a computer, and being able to choose which one to boot when switching on the computer power.
another solution to these problems is to use virtual machine software to emulate another computer from within the operating system of choice.)
“setting up” linux hard disk partitions you can “set up” and configure your linux partitions
some systems are set up to automatically boot from a cd / dvd if  there’s one in the drive, and some need to have a system setting made.
multi booting can also aid software developers where multiple operating systems are required for development or testing purposes.
in order to setup these partitions, download the installation file for the distribution from the linux mint download page.
instead of choosing primary, choose logical.
the new installer does not require this step because it automatically compiles and installs the kernel modules needed to support win4linpro.
to do this, you use the fdisk command / utility or the  parted command / utility – and there are also other disk partitioning  commands and utilities.
a popular multi-boot configuration is a mixed-os system in which linux is  one of the secondary (or primary) installations.
that thus gives 1 partition root “/”, 2 partition “/home”.
shrinking an ntfs drive) but windows has  particularities which must be considered.
and now i would like to offer you free access to my linux commands training  mini-course, a 7 lesson, daily mini-course, including the free linux commands  ebook and linux audio podcasts – showing you how to get started learning  how to use linux commands.
the second partition is the root partition, which is mounted at /.
gnu/linux functions  differently.
make sure it is a primary partition out of the two options.
if the list checks out, click on install now.
with gnu/linux, you are in general connect as a user to restricted access, and you pass as a root (i.e. administrator under windows) when you must change important parameters of the system or regulate the hardware configuration or add or remove a program.
1- to choose its distribution: there is much opinion on the gnu/linux distribution with which you will  have to start, and the majority are not relevant.
the last partition is for the swap partition, which provides disk space that the system will use as virtual memory.
tags: 12, btrfs, install, kde, mint, partition by mario pesce introduction when a few years ago i decided to move from windows to linux (i created on my machine separate partitions for linux and booted from lilo or grub either into windows or into linux, according to job requirements.
once the partition is mounted, you can access it in the win4linpro windows session in the mnt windows folder.
a good software  deserves that one pays for him it is obvious, but the price must be reasonable  the majority of the commercial distributions gnu/linux for the office costs  less than $100 and is really very rich.
if you don’t want to buy a computer just for the purpose of running linux, you can install linux on your windows system.
you can get your instant access to my free linux commands training course at:http://www.
having these systems  on one machine can greatly reduce hardware costs.
if you don’t need it, fine.
some people have run dual boot linux systems without losing programs and  data, but it’s good to know this downside.
as the installation routine runs, you will be asked if you want to create users.
moreover win4linpro offers greater virus protection than a stand-alone windows installation.
it is wise to give 75% of the total disk  space to the repertory /home, the majority of the gnu/linux distributions can  make the partitions for you, but they have all various ideas on the number of  partitions to create and their size.
tags: boot, dual,  partition, windows beginners under gnu – linux?
“, because it is there that you will store images, films, and other large files.
the program which makes multi booting possible is called a boot loader.
this setup could offer better security, in case of problems to either the windows or linux installation, but, at some point, i decided that i could use better the disk space and work without double booting with linux and windows under win4linpro.
also, if you install linux and then remove it  later, you may not be able to boot into windows.
i investigated some of the available products.
directory, that was included in the main root hierarchy, to a separate partition.
there are five errors to be avoided bydidier pradel to give the desire for testing linux so that it is one day your operating system, is one of the objectives of this site.
that thus gives 1 partition root  “/”, 2 partition “/home”.
linux logical partitions extended partitions contain one or more logical partitions.
depending on the disk space, allocate 2 to 4 gb for the swap partition.
gnu/linux functions differently.
you do this to create what  is called a “dual boot” (linux and windows) system.
due to popular demand, this tutorial will teach how to precisely install linux mint kde on a btrfs file system.
“, because it is there that you will store  images, films, and other large files.
it is a good solution if you never change hard disk or operating system.
after you install linux and boot your system, a menu appears allowing you  to boot into windows or boot into linux!
the linux disk partitioning concepts covered here apply to: debian, red  hat, fedora, ubuntu, slackware, suse, opensuse – and all other linux  distributions.
linux system admin training tips: keep in mind that the  “rules” below apply to using the linux fdisk command, which is the  most commonly used disk partitioning utility.
so, you can have a maximum of three primary partitions if you are creating an extended partition on a linux hard disk.
with this solution you can safeguard the  remainder of your personal and software data on a second partition.
though windows can  be installed to another drive, certain particularities (drive letter  assignments, expected system partition number) can make such installations  problematic, while linux installations on primary or logical drives have no  such problems whatsoever.
some systems are set up to automatically boot from a cd / dvd if there’s one in the drive, and some need to have a system setting made.
press ok, and the second partition is finished.
tags:boot, dual, grub, lilo, linux, multi, ntfs, ntldr, partition, partitioning, windows back to top
with windows, you are accustomed to only one partition on your hard disk.
linux primary partitions the disk partitioning utility in a linux installation routine and the fdisk command (and other disk partitioning commands) can create a maximum of four primary partitions per hard disk drive.
and if you want  to exchange files between the windows partition and the gnu/linux partition,  use the filing system fat32 to format your windows partition (window does not  read the partition linux and linux does not read partitions ntfs whereas it can  read and write easily on a system fat32).
linuxcommandstrainingcourse.com tags: fdisk, partition linux training – installing linux on a windows system tuesday,  november 24th, 2009 |learn linux - linux help |
multi booting allows one to get to know the new system, configure all applications needed and migrate data before making the final step and removing the old operating system.
back up your windows programs and data
the  partitions should be done with a windows partitioning tool (diskpart,disk  management), rather than a linux tool (parted, qtparted), for the simple reason  that windows is more particular (cf.
get a mitt and get in the game!
the solution proposed above allows a much better usage of the computer resources and time.
follow the prompts to specify settings and create a user linux systems have users and these users have names.
remember, you must have at least one primary partition  before you can have an extended partition.
it will still work properly.
a double boot system is a inconvenient to use.
as the installation routine runs, you will be asked if you want to create  users.
if a hard disk has an extended partition, then it has at least one logical partition in that partition.
so, you can have a maximum of three primary  partitions if you are creating an extended partition on a linux hard disk.
the reasons  of these errors are numerous: because gnu/linux is a different os; because  windows gives bad habits; because the user chooses the bad distribution and  much of other possibilities.
congratulations, you have now installed linux mint 12 kde using the btrfs file system!
on other systems, you may simply need to hold down a key, like the letter “c” to boot linux from cd / dvd.
this is when you need to understand the linux hard disk partitioning  “rules” described below.
it’s extra incentive to do a backup.
press ok, and the third and last partition is created.
this is when you need to understand the linux hard disk partitioning “rules” described below.
start the linux installation routine to start installing linux, you need to shut down your system and boot it  with linux cd / dvd number 1.
essayer linux is not in fact so hard and a thing is sure in any case: more you  are frustrated with windows and its problems, more the transition to gnu/linux  will be easy.
this is empty disk space that isn’t seen from within windows.
remember, you must have at least one primary partition before you can have an extended partition.
in the new version you can use the win4console command to request a windows session installation and to define how it should be performed (installation directory, installation media etc.)
some claim that all that is related to linux is free.
having these systems on one machine can greatly reduce hardware costs.
some good advantages that i found in win4lin are the following: recently i had to install linux on a new machine and i decided to install both a new opensuse 11.0 distribution and the new version ofwin4linpro that now supports windows 2000 and xp (according to the company vista should also be supported in future).
it is useless to make a larger partition if you use your machine only for office automation applications.
“picky”) about how the partition table is written and will occasionally complain or even show errors if its installed to a linux-created (or sometimes modified) partition table.
by getting it,  installing it, and running it, you can get tons of experience working with it.
while  using the installation routine of most linux distributions – and also by  using the linux fdisk and parted commands – and some other partitioning  commands.
document your linux installation settings during the linux installation, you need to specify some system settings.
another solution to  these problems is to use virtual machine software to emulate another computer  from within the operating system of choice.)
i checked the instructions of the usermanual which require to pre-install also the gcc and the kernel-source packages and then i could install the rpm without any problems.
in order to obtain the best performances of the system, the file  of exchange is on a separate partition.
here some solutions with five current problems under gnu/linux.
3 swap the size depends on the number of software which you install, but 20 gb are more than sufficient for the partition root “/”root, the largest part of your disc must be to hold has” /home
the community the  forums are sources of support as well as the site of your distribution if you  chose a distribution commercial.
in terms of business strategy,  windows does not facilitate or support multi-boot systems, other than allowing  for partition-specific installations, and no choice ofboot loader is offered.
the windows installation has also become simpler.
you can install new applications in windows in the same way as you would do with a normal windows system.
this organization based on the permissions makes your system protected and one is accustomed quickly, although that is strange at the beginning.
lastly, choose the remaining free space and press add button.
removing the original window partition one negative point of having both an original windows partition and the win4lin installation is the waste of space (for instance i had ms office applications installed on both partitions).
the first partition will be mounted at /boot.
click the continue button to proceed onto the next step.
another reason for setting up a multi boot system can be that one wants to investigate or test a new operating system without switching completely.
though windows can be installed to another drive, certain particularities (drive letter assignments, expected system partition number) can make such installations problematic, while linux installations on primary or logical drives have no such problems whatsoever.
in terms of business strategy, windows does not facilitate or support multi-boot systems, other than allowing for partition-specific installations, and no choice ofboot loader is offered.
for start with gnu/linux, it is to advise to choose among the following distributions, withoutorder: professional suse and, in the future, opensuse linspire xandros fedora core mandriva (in the past mandrake)
(however hardware costs are  counterbalanced by system management costs, and the costs of the unavailability  of the software that cannot be run at any given moment.
if you make a mistake when you install linux on windows you can loose all your windows programs and data!
it contains the operating system, the applications, the data, and a great space for your file of windows exchange (the software uses space on the hard disk when the read-write memory is not enough any more).
the community the forums are sources of support as well as the site of your distribution if you chose a distribution commercial.
tags: boot, dual, linux hosting ,partition, security understanding linux partition types & linux hard disk partitioning  – system admin training monday, may 23rd, 2011 | learn linux -  linux help |
excellent resources below: how to dual boot windows xp and linux (xp installed first) — the step-by-step guide with screenshots illustrated dual boot site – awesome site with all things linux!tags:boot, dual, grub, lilo, linux, multi, ntfs, ntldr, partition, partitioning, windows
there are several linux hard disk partition “types”, such as  primary, extended and logical – and there are also strict  “rules” about using these linux partition types.
after you install linux and boot your system, a menu appears allowing you to boot into windows or boot into linux!
windows should be installed to the first primary drive.
some people have run dual boot linux systems without losing programs and data, but it’s good to know this downside.
7 steps to install linux on windows and create a dual boot system 1.
if you make a mistake when you install linux on windows you can loose all  your windows programs and data!
an extended  partition is not accessed directly.
doing a backup is like buying insurance.
this allows you to actually work with linux to run programs and learn linux commands.
the term distribution meaning that a great number of software are gathered they also contain thousands of applications for the office.