linux has a broad variety of available software programs and utilities  available; however windows far outweighs linux in this respect simply due to  the sheer popularity of it.
that’s two in favour of linux bringing the score level!
it therefore  doesn’t come close to linux in terms of reliability.
tagged as: dedicated servers, linux servers, microsoft servers,  windows servers, windows vs linux leave a comment
one of the main components many users take into account when choosing an  operating system is how well they perform regarding software and hardware.
the same goes for hardware too.
thus, if you’re making use ofdedicated servers then linux could be the better choice for you.
telnet and ssh offer users a means by  which they can open a window directly on a web server and manipulate files  directly.
meanwhile, windows remains the most vulnerable to viruses and other attacks as spy bots and malware have been specifically designed to infect the masses of computers running windows.
with around 80 million linux users and hundreds of millions of windows users, it’s an interesting question to pose – which one’s best?
this alone easily pushes the number of linux  users over the 100 million mark and makes the choice a lot harder than it may  appear!
this alone easily pushes the number of linux users over the 100 million mark and makes the choice a lot harder than it may appear!tagged as: dedicated servers, linux servers, microsoft servers, windows servers, windows vs linux leave a comment
it  looks to me like linux has doubled its lead and could well stretch away into  the distance.
it looks to me like linux has doubled its lead and could well stretch away into the distance.
linux has a broad variety of available software programs and utilities available; however windows far outweighs linux in this respect simply due to the sheer popularity of it.
linux is also the cheaper of the two systems as most linux variants are available for free or at a much lower price than the windows equivalent.
one of the main components many users take into account when choosing an operating system is how well they perform regarding software and hardware.
meanwhile, windows has notoriously struggled in comparison with  updates and reboots regularly required to keep it on its toes.
it therefore doesn’t come close to linux in terms of reliability.
in addition, did you know that the popular satellite navigation systems, tomtom and garmin, make use of linux?
meanwhile, windows has notoriously struggled in comparison with updates and reboots regularly required to keep it on its toes.
2-0 to microsoft windows at this stage!
windows can offer a much larger selection of  software programs and utilities that linux simply cannot compete with.
accessing servers is a major priority for many users and whilst both  systems offer ftp access, which comprises of transferring your files from your  hard drive to a web server, only linux will offer telnet or ssh access.
telnet and ssh offer users a means by which they can open a window directly on a web server and manipulate files directly.
windows can offer a much larger selection of software programs and utilities that linux simply cannot compete with.
linux is, however, the harder of the two systems to use and windows is currently the preferred supplier all around the world.
both have great advantages and so we’re weighing up the main differences between the two in order to get a feel for what one really is the best.
it has always been a very secure system and compared to windows it is much more secure with far less attacks recorded.
linux is, however, the harder of the two systems to use and  windows is currently the preferred supplier all around the world.
another big factor for users is the security of the operating system they are using, and it would seem that linux have hit the back of the net with this one!
whilst linux has made great steps forward in hardware support, many companies still do not offer drivers or support for their hardware in linux whereas almost all hardware manufacturers will support their products in microsoft windows and almost all hardware products are compatible with windows.
with around 80 million linux users and hundreds of millions of windows  users, it’s an interesting question to pose – which one’s  best?
both have great advantages and so we’re weighing up the main  differences between the two in order to get a feel for what one really is the  best.
meanwhile, windows remains the most  vulnerable to viruses and other attacks as spy bots and malware have been  specifically designed to infect the masses of computers running windows.
linux is also the cheaper of the two systems as most linux variants are  available for free or at a much lower price than the windows equivalent.
another big factor for users is the security of the operating system they  are using, and it would seem that linux have hit the back of the net with this  one!
windows vs. linux – which is better?
furthermore, reliability is also a significant factor and historically linux has been able to perform for months and even years without needing to be rebooted.
everyone knows windows but linux does have a few strings to its bow.
furthermore, reliability is also a significant factor and historically  linux has been able to perform for months and even years without needing to be  rebooted.
it has always been a very secure system and compared to windows it is much  more secure with far less attacks recorded.
name (required) mail (will not be published) (required)
whilst linux has made great steps forward  in hardware support, many companies still do not offer drivers or support for  their hardware in linux whereas almost all hardware manufacturers will support  their products in microsoft windows and almost all hardware products are  compatible with windows.
it is  indeed possible to set up telnet access on windows but very few hosting  administrators will actually offer it.
accessing servers is a major priority for many users and whilst both systems offer ftp access, which comprises of transferring your files from your hard drive to a web server, only linux will offer telnet or ssh access.
« ibm is to take on oracle and cisco systems
it is indeed possible to set up telnet access on windows but very few hosting administrators will actually offer it.
in  addition, did you know that the popular satellite navigation systems, tomtom  and garmin, make use of linux?