references michaelhorowitz.com/linux.vs.windows.html reference #1 theinquirer.net/en/inquirer/news/2004/10/27/linux-more-secure-than-windows-says-study reference #2 linux.com/whatislinux/ reference number 3 .linux.org/info/ reference #4 en.wikipedia.org/wiki/linux%5fkernel reference #5 /en.wikipedia.org/wiki/kde reference #6 /en.wikipedia.org/wiki/gnome reference #7 http://www.alinuxworld.com
and in order to cause any real damage to the system the user would have to log in as root, by typing a user name and password before running the virus.
(linux, openbsd, freebsd, netbsd, and solaris) these desktop environments provide users with the ability to utilize  software developed with various computer languages, and the ability to utilize  the software on different computer hardware configurations.
most of the original unix code has also been gradually written out of linux over the years.
an advantage of using the command prompt is it uses less system resources and enables your computer to focus more of its energy on the task at hand.
viruses, spy-ware and a general lack of security are the biggest problems facing the windows community.
the advantage of this is that you do not need to alter your system in order to  try linux.
applications such as microsoft office, outlook, internet explorer, adobe creative suite, and chat clients such as msn messenger, do not work natively with linux.
a disadvantage of  linux is when it comes to using hardware devices such as printers, scanners, or  digital camera’s.
these window managers provide users with the ability to utilize the software on different computer hardware configurations and provide various visual appearance.
although most linux distributions offer a graphical environment, to simplify the user experience, they all also offer a way for more technically involved users to directly communicate with the kernel via a shell or command line.
some linux distro’s can only run one processor, while others  can run many at once.
i also run a linux website at the following urlhttp://www.alinuxworld.comincrease your profit with an efficient dedicated server hosting from one of the leading agencies.
the license allows applications written for gnome to use a much wider  set of licenses, including some commercial applications.
tags: crunchbang, fluxbox, gnome, live cd, mint, openbox, pclinuxos,  x window manager linux mint kde – is this a good kde distribution?
it’s  your standard kde layout for those who know what this look like.
- blackbox is written in c++.
installing  the windows operating software and applications is easier due to the fact that  it has a universal installer.
linux mint kde has a basic desktop that is already customized.
although windows offers its control panel to help users configure the computer to their liking, it does not match the configuring options that linux provides especially if you are a real tech savvy user.
i wrote this article for part of a final project for my unix class while in college.
with windows you are only allowed to install it on one computer and  microsoft uses product activation software to enforce this rule.
the x window system provides the system resources and software components  necessary for the creation of graphical user interfaces (windows managers and  desktop environments).
with linux installation varies greatly from distro to distro.
the advantage of fluxbox is that it’s so simple that it  doesn’t get in the way like other interfaces tend to do.
the graphic interface generally consist of menus, icons and background desktop images.
also with  windows you can rest assured that your hardware will most likely be supported  by the operating software, although this is not much of a problem with linux  you cant be sure if linux will support all of your hardware.
linux has millions of coders and companies throughout  the world, volunteering their time to work on patches, updates, newer versions,  and software applications.
(linux, openbsd, freebsd, netbsd, and solaris) these desktop environments provide users with the ability to utilize software developed with various computer languages, and the ability to utilize the software on different computer hardware configurations.
it looks like it also has a dvd-rom, two usb ports –one currently used by my mouse, the other buy either a usb memory stick, or a usb wi-fi adapter.
it can be configured to recreate the visual  appearance of various desktop environments.
there are also distributions that include no graphical environment at all to better suit users that need to squeeze out all of the computing power that they can get for various computing activities, and for users that are more advanced than others.
one reason why viruses and spy-ware are not a problem for linux is simply due to the fact that there are far fewer being made for linux.
it comes with jwm and fluxbox, no gnome, or kde with this one, obviously.
http://www.scenicradio.com/unix.htm dave childers is a freelance internet broadcast consultant, writer and webmaster ofhttp://www.scvi.net – the winamp tv, nullsoft video information website.
the following are the most common open source / free window manager  packages for the unix operating systems : linux, openbsd, freebsd, netbsd, and  solaris.
while it is made for older hardware, you might not be a huge fan of  interfaces like gnome and kde.
desktop environments are graphic interfaces that provide user control and
windows users are forced to employ third party anti virus software to help limit the possibility of the computer being rendered useless by malicious code.
it also allows users to manipulate items with the  drag and drop function or use the point and click function to execute  applications on the desktop itself.
gnome is based on the gtk+ programming language and allows applications to  be integrated within the desktop.
there is a clean install, in which you install windows on a blank hard drive.
with windows you may accidentally run and execute a virus,  by opening an email attachment, or by double clicking on a file that contains  malicious code.
linux mint comes with proprietary drivers  installed to play music, dvd, flash, and java.
also finding applications for windows is easier because of its popularity most apps are available for windows only, and are made easily available.
with linux  most of the applications will also be free, however for windows in the majority  of cases you are suppose to pay for the applications.
desktop environments are graphic interfaces that provide user control and configuration of a computer operating system in addition to installed applications.
although ibm backs their  linux products, for the most part if you use linux you are on your own.
and even then the user would only be able to damage his or her home  folder, all other users data will be left untouched, and all root system files  would also remain untouched, because linux would require a root password to  make changes to these files.
instead of using these applications you will need to use linux apps such as open office, the gimp image editor, the thunderbird email client, instead of the msn messenger you can use the gaim messenger, and you can use firefox as your web browser.
“linux has two parts, they include the kernel mentioned previously,  and in most circumstances it will also include a graphical user interface,  which runs atop the kernel” reference #3.
free linux help, tips & tricks!
some distributions  of linux include gentoo, and slackware, which due to the lack of a complete  graphical environment is best, suited for linux experts, programmers, and other  users that know their way around a command prompt.
with less of an emphasis on ease of use and eye candy, fluxbox aims  to be a very lightweight, and a more efficient user of system resources.
you can usually receive responses for your  questions in a matter of hours form many qualified people.
there are also distributions that include no graphical environment at  all to better suit users that need to squeeze out all of the computing power  that they can get for various computing activities, and for users that are more  advanced than others.
due to the fact that the kernel is open source, linux has a huge advantage over windows in configurability.
if you wish too, you can purchase linux from a variety of vendors, which will include a boxed set of cds, manuals, and tech support for around 40-130$. of course if you purchase a high-end version of linux used for servers it may cost any where from 400$- 2000$.
the following are the most common open source / free window manager packages for the unix operating systems : linux, openbsd, freebsd, netbsd, and solaris.
- afterstep was originally based on fvwm and was designed to provide a  nextstep themed appearance.
gnome puts a  heavy emphasis on simplicity, and user ability.
linux at its most basic form is a computer kernel.
most linux users will find  comfort in the fact that drivers for the latest hardware are constantly being  written by coders throughout the world and are usually very quickly made  available.
graphical user interfaces alleviate that requirement and make the use of a computer both simple and effective.
different pieces of open source software can be put together in order to make it work on certain types of hardware.
in most cases the user will communicate with the computer via the graphical user interface.
the kde gui (graphical user interface).
tech support is usually included with the purchase of the product for a certain amount of time, maybe a two year period, and from there on you may be charged for the service.
common uses for linux include that of a home desktop computing system, or more commonly for a server application, such as use as a web server, or mail server.
these will help you get new  applications installed and updated really easily.
linux mint 8 has now come out with their fluxbox  edition meaning it’s one of the most modern and up to date versions of  linux that is using fluxbox.
different pieces of  open source software can be put together in order to make it work on certain  types of hardware.
4 comments in this piece i will show how the system usage differs among live cd  distributions running different linux windows managers mainly on distros  considered to be lightweight.
the  disadvantage of recovering windows is the fact that you will loose all of your  data, which resides on the damaged copy of windows.”
another major difference between linux and windows is the applications that  you will use with either os.
you may perform a clean install of linux or dual boot it, to co-exist with another operation software.
you can run linux off of the cd so you do not have to damage your  windows partition.
although with  linux you can get microsoft office and adobe creative suite to work using  software from codeweavers called cross over office.
kde uses the kwin window manager.
the  interface has only a taskbar and a menu bar, which is accessed by right  clicking over the desktop.
you can find more information about these software applications here:
if you don’t like the kde edition, there are also fluxbox, xfce, and  gnome editions of mint to try out as well as other distributions that use kde.
some  of the more common graphical environments that can run on linux include the  following.
gnome’s look and feel is  similar to that of other desktop environments.
kde is a free open source project, with millions of coders working on it throughout the world, but it also has some commercial support from companies such as novell, troltech, and mandriva.
in this piece i will show how the system usage differs among live cd distributions running different linux windows managers mainly on distros considered to be lightweight.
to recap we started with the fact that windows has only one vendor that releases the software, while linux comes from millions of different coders throughout the world.
thousands of  coders throughout the world began downloading and altering the source code of  linux, applying patches, and bug fixes, and other improvements, to make the os  better and better.
instead of using these  applications you will need to use linux apps such as open office, the gimp  image editor, the thunderbird email client, instead of the msn messenger you  can use the gaim messenger, and you can use firefox as your web browser.
you can even use linux as a dedicated firewall to help protect other machines that are on the same network.
when installing window’s you must enter a product activation key, which will expire after so many uses.
you can find more information about these software applications here:  http://www.scenicradio.com/unix.htm dave childers is a freelance internet broadcast consultant, writer and  webmaster ofhttp://www.scvi.net – the winamp tv, nullsoft video  information website.
the advantage of fluxbox is that it’s so simple that it doesn’t get in the way like other interfaces tend to do.
my first try was with ….
while it is made for older hardware, you might not be a huge fan of interfaces like gnome and kde.
as you can see, the alternate window manager distros really do start with a lower system memory footprint, however that isn’t always the case we discovered by looking at crunchbang.
it’s  comes with a fresh blue look to it with the default kde grey title bars.
despite the lack of professional help, you can however receive good tech  advice, from the thousands or millions of linux forums that are on the web.
this article will discuss the differences between the linux and windows operating software; we discuss some of the pro’s and con’s of each system.
- metacity is written in gtk+.
gnome’s look and feel is similar to that of other desktop environments.
the advantage of this is that you do not need to alter your system in order to try linux.
fluxbox is another example of a  linux gui.
although most linux distributions offer a graphical environment, to  simplify the user experience, they all also offer a way for more technically  involved users to directly communicate with the kernel via a shell or command  line.
since linux is capable of reading ntfs files you may copy files form a windows computer to a usb flash drive or floppy drive etc.
by robert fanning linux mint kde is another quality kde distribution that you can choose from.
linux will run on many different hardware platforms, from intel and amd chips, to computers running ibm power pc processors.
while you can install these manually with ubuntu, mint has it  done when you install the distribution.
over the years linux has gone from a simple text based clone  of unix, to a powerful operating software, with full-featured desktop  environments, and unprecedented portability, and a variety of uses.
although some companies, charge for tech support, and others charge for their distribution of linux, by packaging it with non-free software, you will always be able to get the linux kernel for free, and you can get full-featured linux desktops with all the necessary applications for general use, for free as well.
if you don’t like the kde edition, there are also fluxbox, xfce, and gnome editions of mint to try out as well as other distributions that use kde.
other distributions such as suse try to find a common ground between ease of use and configurability.
it uses the new kde 4 with the plasma desktop.
as a result of linux being open source software, there is no one version of linux; instead there are many different versions or distributions of linux, that are suited for a variety of different users and task.
kde is based on the qt 4 programming language and allows applications to be integrated within the desktop.
and even then the user would only be able to damage his or her home folder, all other users data will be left untouched, and all root system files would also remain untouched, because linux would require a root password to make changes to these files.
buy linux todaytags: compaq, damn, dsl, fluxbox, icewm, jwm, linux, notebook, p3, pentium, presario, puppy, small, ubuntu, wireless, xl260
first, it looks better than ubuntu.
software that is made to install on one version probably will require some configuration in order to install on another version.
distributions such as ubuntu, or linspire make linux far easier to use, by offering full-featured graphical environments that help eliminate the need for a command prompt.
as you can see it is running just past crunchbang at 869 mb of ram.
“in 2002 computer world magazine quoted the chief technology architect at merrill lynch in new york, as saying “the cost of running linux is typically a tenth of the cost of running unix or windows alternatively.”
as you can see it is running just past crunchbang at 869 mb  of ram.
as a result of linux being open source software, there is no one version of  linux; instead there are many different versions or distributions of linux,  that are suited for a variety of different users and task.
you can use this  edition even on a high power machine if that is something you want.
the graphic interface generally consist of menus, icons and  background desktop images.
- enlightenment can be used as a substitute for a complete desktop  environment.
it can be configured to recreate the visual appearance of various desktop environments.
instead of the brown and  orange colors, it uses greens and blacks to create a pretty slick looking  desktop.
although some companies, charge for tech support,  and others charge for their distribution of linux, by packaging it with  non-free software, you will always be able to get the linux kernel for free,  and you can get full-featured linux desktops with all the necessary  applications for general use, for free as well.
applications such as  microsoft office, outlook, internet explorer, adobe creative suite, and chat  clients such as msn messenger, do not work natively with linux.
as mentioned earlier linux is capable  of running full-featured graphical environments like kde, or more lightweight  and resource friendly gui’s like fluxbox, or blackbox, to suit users with  older computers.
the command line allows you to run the computer without a gui, by  executing commands from a text-based interface.
you can configure  linux to run almost any way you see fit by manipulating the kernel.
let us first start out with a general overview of the linux operating system.
there is also an upgrade install, in which you start with an older version of windows and “upgrade” to a newer one.
foe example to run a virus that is embedded in an email attachment  the user would have to, open the attachment, then save it, then right click the  file and chose properties form the menu, in properties they can give it execute  permissions, they would then be able to open the file in the terminal to run  the virus.
distributions such as linspire are best suited for users that are migrating over from the windows world.
it’s set up quite a bit like windows with the “start” button the bottom left, a basic taskbar, notification icons, and a clock.
matthias ettrich developed  kde in 1996.
also you  may use a linux live cd to recover files from a damaged windows computer that  will no longer boot up.
common uses for linux include that of a home desktop computing system, or  more commonly for a server application, such as use as a web server, or mail  server.
lxde uses the openbox window manager.
- fluxbox is based on blackbox 0.61.1.
for home use linux is cheap and in most cases completely free, while windows varies in cost depending on which version you buy.
where as the driver software for these devices will often be easily available for windows, with linux you are for the most part left on your own to find drivers for these devices.
lxde does not have applications integrated into the desktop.
there are a few  differences.
from this point forward we will discuss some of the more prominent  ways in which linux deferrers from windows.
these will help you get new applications installed and updated really easily.
as mentioned earlier linux is capable of running full-featured graphical environments like kde, or more lightweight and resource friendly gui’s like fluxbox, or blackbox, to suit users with older computers.
this makes guarding against them a constant concern for any windows user.
with linux it is also  not necessary to reboot your computer after most upgrades, it is only necessary  to reboot after an upgrade to the kernel.
one graphical user interface that is good for older hardware  is fluxbox.
while this can be done by expert users, newer users have a hard time knowing all the pieces that you will need to make it work properly.
(this distro also did not even see my 1gb swap space on my hd??)
not to mention i’m sure all distros will connect to a network with no problem these days using a hard-wired ethernet.
by default it also uses firefox and  thunderbird instead of the traditional kde browser and mail programs.
linux mint 8 fluxbox has all this already done for you  setting it up so that everything works that way you need it to.
it does not support desktop icons or  multiple workspaces.
if you are using the kde edition of mint, then you probably love the new plasma and don’t mind the extra resources that this uses over the old kde 3.
you can configure linux to run almost any way you see fit by manipulating the kernel.
fluxbox is most popular for use with older computers  that have a limited abundance of system resources.
linux has millions of coders and companies throughout the world, volunteering their time to work on patches, updates, newer versions, and software applications.
fluxbox is another example of a linux gui.
despite the lack of professional help, you can however receive good tech advice, from the thousands or millions of linux forums that are on the web.
“with windows xp there are three main ways to install.
gnome puts a heavy emphasis on simplicity, and user ability.
tag: fluxbox system resource comparison of several distros running lightweight linux  window managers sunday, february 19th, 2012 | arizona linux |
sunday,  december 25th, 2011 |learn linux - linux help |
gnome is license under the lgpl license (lesser general public  license).
with windows you may accidentally run and execute a virus, by opening an email attachment, or by double clicking on a file that contains malicious code.
this makes guarding against them a constant concern for any windows  user.
graphical user interfaces alleviate  that requirement and make the use of a computer both simple and effective.
it’s certainly true that there are some modern albeit light-weight distros out there today that can certainly bring life back to this baby.
foe example to run a virus that is embedded in an email attachment the user would have to, open the attachment, then save it, then right click the file and chose properties form the menu, in properties they can give it execute permissions, they would then be able to open the file in the terminal to run the virus.
tags: fluxbox, kde, kubuntu, mint, ubuntu, xfce by richard hove one huge advantage of linux is it’s flexibility.
it offers support for multiple workspaces.
this was truly an exciting version to use since it had so many advanced elements for such a small size that it really seemed like that could be a daily user that could keep up with the big fellas in the linux world.
also  with linux it can be difficult to install software even if it is made for  linux.
windows users are forced to employ third party anti virus software to  help limit the possibility of the computer being rendered useless by malicious  code.
if you wish too, you can purchase linux from a  variety of vendors, which will include a boxed set of cds, manuals, and tech  support for around 40-130$. of course if you purchase a high-end version of  linux used for servers it may cost any where from 400$- 2000$.
these window managers provide users with the ability to utilize the  software on different computer hardware configurations and provide various  visual appearance.
there is also a recovery, which technically is not an install; it is used to restore a copy of windows back to its factory settings.
there are also versions of linux that are designed to emulate  the windows look and feel as closely as possible.
windows is backed by  the microsoft corporation, which means that if you have an issue with any of  their products the company should resolve it.
(this distro also did not even see my 1gb swap space  on my hd??)
windows is backed by the microsoft corporation, which means that if you have an issue with any of their products the company should resolve it.
linux mint 8 has now come out with their fluxbox edition meaning it’s one of the most modern and up to date versions of linux that is using fluxbox.
linux will run on a greater variety of hard ware than does windows, from mainframe super computers running multiple ibm power pc chips, to a small laptop running an amd processor.
you can run linux off of the cd so you do not have to damage your windows partition.
it offers minimal support for graphical icons.
the name gnome stands for gnu network object model environment.
the x window manager is an application that controls the function of the x  window system.
both desktop environments and windows mangers provide a graphical method for users to control and configure a unix operating system, without the need for using text based command line control.
linux mint is a distribution that is based on ubuntu.
if your linux computer will not boot, then you may insert a live cd and boot off it, so you can repair the damaged version of linux.
linus torvalds made linux open source with  the gnu (gpl) (general public license), so other programmers could download the  source code free of charge and alter it any way they see fit.
there is  also an upgrade install, in which you start with an older version of windows  and “upgrade” to a newer one.
it provides the ability to display a 3d  visualization ( similar to mwm ) and supports basic multiple workspace.
an advantage of using the  command prompt is it uses less system resources and enables your computer to  focus more of its energy on the task at hand.
it does not support desktop icons or multiple workspaces.
it also comes with proprietary plugins already installed like flash  and java as well as the codex that you will need to play certain music formats  on your computer.
with linux it is also not necessary to reboot your computer after most upgrades, it is only necessary to reboot after an upgrade to the kernel.
he also wanted a desktop environment for unix that would be easier to use than the ones available at the time.
another major difference between linux and windows is the applications that you will use with either os.
in linux the kernel is open source, so if you have the know how, you can modify it in virtually any way that you see fit.
linux can even be configured to run on apples, ipod’s, or smart phones.
all of this configurability can be problematic sometimes,  as you will have to make a decision on which desktop is right for you, and to  make things easier on yourself you will need to only install applications that  are native to your distribution and graphical environment.
with linux you will for the most part be forced to let go of the familiar applications that you have grown accustomed to with windows, in favor of lesser-known open source apps that are made for linux.
these do not have to be  installed by you at all unlike kubuntu.
with linux on the  other hand problems with viruses are practically non-existent, and in reality  you do not even need virus protection for your linux machine.
the following are open source / free desktop environment packages for the  unix operating systems.
gnome uses the metacity window manager.
other advantages include the ability to rescue a broken  linux system.
distributions that lack a  graphical environment are best suited for older computers lacking the  processing power necessary to process graphics, or for computers performing  processor intensive task, where it is desirable to have all of the system  resources focused on the task at hand, rather than wasting resources by  processing graphics.
dsl — damn small linux.
due to the fact that the kernel is open source,  linux has a huge advantage over windows in configurability.
from this point forward we will discuss some of the more prominent ways in which linux deferrers from windows.
configurability is another key difference between the two operating software’s.
although ibm backs their linux products, for the most part if you use linux you are on your own.
some wonder why to use mint’s kde edition over something like kubuntu  since both are based on ubuntu.
i was pretty sure that i’d have to use a lightweight distro since the dearth of ram would be probably the biggest limiter in my distro selection choices.
when  installing window’s you must enter a product activation key, which will  expire after so many uses.
it’s set up quite a bit like windows with the “start” button  the bottom left, a basic taskbar, notification icons, and a clock.
all versions of windows, weather windows xp home, business, or vista, all updates, security patches, and service patches for windows comes from microsoft.
while you can install these manually with ubuntu, mint has it done when you install the distribution.
to recap we started with the fact that windows has  only one vendor that releases the software, while linux comes from millions of  different coders throughout the world.
if you have a problem with ubuntu linux you cannot call ubuntu and expect any help.
configuration of a computer operating system in addition to installed  applications.
so, it’s still a small distro but it has more modern desktop environments than the previously mentioned dsl.
one notable feature of gnome is the fact that  it supports many different languages; gnome supports over 100 different  languages.
©2012 linux.bihlman.com
the author has developed a website dedicated to the excalibur food dehydrator of which he is a big fan.
with linux rather than having to buy an upgrade cd, you can install updates by downloading and then installing them while your desktop is running.
the kernel is the underlying computer code, used to communicate with hardware, and other system software, it also runs all of the basic functions of the computer.
configurability is another key difference between the two operating  software’s.
the command line allows you to run the computer without a gui, by executing commands from a text-based interface.
a more important reason is that running a virus on a linux machine is more difficult and requires a lot more input from the user.
we also commented on the fact that the linux kernel and much of the applications used with it are completely free of charge, where as with windows you are forced to pay for most of the software.
it can be configured to manage the visual appearance of display windows and control panels.
unfortunately, users are required to know the necessary unique commands and  their unique structure that must be used.
an advantage of upgrading is that all of the files on the older system should remain intact throughout the process.
linux mint 9 fluxbox edition as you can see, this distro comes in at a svelte 536 mb of ram usage upon intial boot pclinuxos 2011.08 openbox edition next, we see a still slim offering from the pclinuxos team which comes in at 580 mb (this distro also curiously only saw 388mb of my 1gb swap space on my hd??)
for most cases, with linux there is no need to enter a product activation key when performing an installation, you are free to install it on as many computers as you’d like.
a programmer student named linus torvalds first made linux as a variant of the unix operating system in 1991.
other linux distributions aim at making the computing experience as easy as possible.
although with linux you can get microsoft office and adobe creative suite to work using software from codeweavers called cross over office.
the problem is that very few distributions actually  have a fluxbox edition.
by robert fanning linux mint kde is another quality kde distribution that you can choose  from.
with microsoft windows on the other hand you have to pay microsoft for the software, and you will also have to pay for most of the applications that you will use.
linux users can  either pay for tech support or rely on the many linux forums and groups  available on the internet.
it’s what’s called a community edition meaning that volunteers actually put this distribution together.
tags:boot, fluxbox, gnome, gui, kde, linux, ntfs, unix, vs, windows i am currently trying to find the best live linux cd for an old notebook computer i have, a compaq presario 1700 xl260.
he also wanted a desktop environment for unix  that would be easier to use than the ones available at the time.
it is also possible to run linux  without ever needing to install it on a hard drive; there are many  distributions of linux that will allow you to run it straight off of a live cd.
xfce uses the xfwm window manager.
where as the driver software for these devices will  often be easily available for windows, with linux you are for the most part  left on your own to find drivers for these devices.
tags:fluxbox, gnome, kde, mint, ubuntu, xfce by david childers the use of the text based command line for running applications or configuring computer systems can be a daunting task.
the next lowest contender in regards to initial system usage ispclinuxos 2011.08 openbox edition.
the linux kernel is an operating system, which runs on a wide variety of  hardware and for a variety of purposes.
it can be configured to manage the visual appearance of display  windows and control panels.
with linux  installation varies greatly from distro to distro.
linux users can either pay for tech support or rely on the many linux forums and groups available on the internet.
other than a few minor nuisances, linux out performs windows in most categories.
in most cases the user will  communicate with the computer via the graphical user interface.
there are a few differences.
it allows users to utilize applications without a full desktop environment installed.
also you may use a linux live cd to recover files from a damaged windows computer that will no longer boot up.
unfortunately since the system doesn’t have an ethernet port, it really limits the functionality of the networking aspect.
also with windows you can rest assured that your hardware will most likely be supported by the operating software, although this is not much of a problem with linux you cant be sure if linux will support all of your hardware.
it provides the ability to display a 3d visualization ( similar to mwm ) and supports basic multiple workspace.
it still has windows 98se installed on its hard drive, and i certainly wouldn’t consider trying xp
and in order to cause any real damage to the system the user  would have to log in as root, by typing a user name and password before running  the virus.
and of course the biggest  difference in this writer’s opinion is the fact that linux does not  suffer from an onslaught of viruses and other malicious code, unlike windows  which is plagued by countless number of malicious code that can easily destroy  your system if not properly guarded against.
graphical user interfaces  eliminate the tedious memorization of text based commands.
with  linux you will for the most part be forced to let go of the familiar  applications that you have grown accustomed to with windows, in favor of  lesser-known open source apps that are made for linux.
unlike windows  in linux an executable file cannot run automatically, it needs to be given  execute permissions manually this significantly improves security.
also linux offers a variety of graphical environments to further suit your needs.
it is also possible to run linux without ever needing to install it on a hard drive; there are many distributions of linux that will allow you to run it straight off of a live cd.
generally it’s a version behind  the main version of mint but still has everything you need.
“in 2002  computer world magazine quoted the chief technology architect at merrill lynch  in new york, as saying “the cost of running linux is typically a tenth of  the cost of running unix or windows alternatively.”
this computer has a 500 mhz pentium iii processor, 192 mb of ram, and over 5 gb of hard drive space.
- fvwm is based on twm.
you can use this edition even on a high power machine if that is something you want.
ituses so little resources that even a machine that is nearly 10  years old can run it well.
there are many who are split on the differences between the two but users have gradually accepted version four’s changes.
also with linux it can be difficult to install software even if it is made for linux.
special commands must be  used which may require additional modifiers to invoke the desired computer  function.
anti virus software often has the negative side effect of hogging system  resources, thus slowing down your entire computer, also most anti virus  software requires that you pay a subscription service, and that you constantly  download updates in order to stay ahead of the intruders.
it is much easier to find the  software that you are looking for with windows than it is with linux, because  so many software vendors make their products compatible with windows only.
a disadvantage of linux is when it comes to using hardware devices such as printers, scanners, or digital camera’s.
you  ca also get great help from social networking sites such as myspace, by posting  questions in the many linux groups.
you ca also get great help from social networking sites such as myspace, by posting questions in the many linux groups.
unlike windows in linux an executable file cannot run automatically, it needs to be given execute permissions manually this significantly improves security.
of course the downside of ease of use is less configurability, and wasted system resources on graphics processing.
linux mint 12 gnome to show you what a current, standard distro uses we have included the  latest mint distro.
he uses the excalibur 2900 dehydrator.
increase your profit with an efficient dedicated server hosting from one of  the leading agencies.
for most cases, with  linux there is no need to enter a product activation key when performing an  installation, you are free to install it on as many computers as you’d  like.
we also commented on the fact that the  linux kernel and much of the applications used with it are completely free of  charge, where as with windows you are forced to pay for most of the software.
i eventually tested around a dozen distros, and understandably the more “packed-with-features” distros like the ubuntus and the arch linux types were really too much for the mature system.
distributions such as ubuntu, or linspire make  linux far easier to use, by offering full-featured graphical environments that  help eliminate the need for a command prompt.
the x window manager also controls how users  interact with these graphical interfaces.
examples of commands include the cd command for changing your directory, or the halt command for shutting down your system, or the reboot command for restarting the computer ect.
xfce is based on the the gtk+ programming language.
increase your profit with an efficient dedicated server hosting from one of the leading agencies.
under windows viruses and spy-ware have the ability to execute themselves with little or no input from the user.
this is due to the fact that linux has so many different versions.
the fact that linux is more secure is the tipping point, that tilts the scales in the favor of linux.
with microsoft windows on the  other hand you have to pay microsoft for the software, and you will also have  to pay for most of the applications that you will use.
let us first start out with a general overview of the linux operating  system.
the type of hard ware that linux and windows runs on also causes them to  differ.
xfce uses the xfwm  window manager.
linux mint 12 gnome to show you what a current, standard distro uses we have included the latest mint distro.
these do not have to be installed by you at all unlike kubuntu.
linux mint 9 fluxbox edition as you can see, this distro comes in at a svelte 536 mb of ram usage upon  intial boot pclinuxos 2011.08 openbox edition next, we see a still slim offering from the pclinuxos team which comes in  at 580 mb (this distro also curiously only saw 388mb of my 1gb swap space on my  hd??)
the linux kernel is an operating system, which runs on a wide variety of hardware and for a variety of purposes.
fluxbox is most popular for use with older computers that have a limited abundance of system resources.
(ref #1) one of the most notable differences between the two operating software’s is windows legendary problems with malicious code, known as viruses and spy ware.
- afterstep was originally based on fvwm and was designed to provide a nextstep themed appearance.
fluxbox can be added onto any linux distribution.
- window maker provides drag and drop user control in addition to supporting multiple workspaces.
the kernel is the  underlying computer code, used to communicate with hardware, and other system  software, it also runs all of the basic functions of the computer.
kde is a free  open source project, with millions of coders working on it throughout the  world, but it also has some commercial support from companies such as novell,  troltech, and mandriva.
windows and linux also differ on tech support issues.
this article will discuss the differences between the linux and windows  operating software; we discuss some of the pro’s and con’s of each  system.
most linux users will find comfort in the fact that drivers for the latest hardware are constantly being written by coders throughout the world and are usually very quickly made available.
there is also a recovery, which technically is not an install; it is  used to restore a copy of windows back to its factory settings.
for example if microsoft windows  is not working right, then you should be able to call microsoft and make use of  their tech support to fix the issue.
some wonder why to use mint’s kde edition over something like kubuntu since both are based on ubuntu.
- enlightenment can be used as a substitute for a complete desktop environment.
the above was a general over view of some differences between the windows operating system, and linux.
no comments by david childers the use of the text based command line for running applications or  configuring computer systems can be a daunting task.
text based command line configuration and control can provide a comprehensive method for daily computer management and operation.
the x window system provides the system resources and software components necessary for the creation of graphical user interfaces (windows managers and desktop environments).
with linux on the other hand problems with viruses are practically non-existent, and in reality you do not even need virus protection for your linux machine.
but it is the most recent fluxbox edition of linux mint,linux mint 9  fluxbox edition, and is a damn fine distro that i must say looks great and  it’s fun to use.
this post proudly written using firefox on linux mint 9 fluxbox edition!tags: crunchbang, fluxbox, gnome, live cd, mint, openbox, pclinuxos, x window manager
fluxbox and xfce are some popular alternatives to these.
linux will run on a greater variety of hard ware than  does windows, from mainframe super computers running multiple ibm power pc  chips, to a small laptop running an amd processor.
unfortunately, users are required to know the necessary unique commands and their unique structure that must be used.
the last offering we are looking at today is the latest crunchbang distro,  based on debian that comes in at a very surprising 815 mb of ram –  i’m really puzzled by that number and i’d love to know why it comes  in so high on this test.
distributions that lack a graphical environment are best suited for older computers lacking the processing power necessary to process graphics, or for computers performing processor intensive task, where it is desirable to have all of the system resources focused on the task at hand, rather than wasting resources by processing graphics.
- window maker provides drag and drop user control in addition to  supporting multiple workspaces.
in conclusion we will conclude that the linux os really is the superior software.
for example if microsoft windows is not working right, then you should be able to call microsoft and make use of their tech support to fix the issue.
come visit his latest  websitehttp://www.dragonvoicerecognition.org for product information regarding  voice recognition software.
tech support is usually included with the  purchase of the product for a certain amount of time, maybe a two year period,  and from there on you may be charged for the service.
an advantage of upgrading is that all  of the files on the older system should remain intact throughout the process.
no comments by richard hove one huge advantage of linux is it’s flexibility.
the only way the user can damage the whole  computer would be if he or she logged in as root user by providing the root  user name and password to the terminal before running the virus.
it’s your standard kde layout for those who know what this look like.
with linux on the other hand there is not one company that releases it.
you may be presented with a graphical installer or it may be a text-based installer, these variations make linux a bit more difficult and unpredictable to install than is windows, (although the difficulty is disappearing).
under windows viruses and  spy-ware have the ability to execute themselves with little or no input from  the user.
the problem is that you will have to configure it to work well.
windows simply suffers from far to many  security vulnerabilities for it to be considered the better over all desktop  environment.
other distributions such as suse try to find a common ground  between ease of use and configurability.
it provides rudimentary gnome desktop support and  multiple workspaces.
now that we are more familiar with the linux operating system, we can note  the many ways in which linux differs from the worlds most popular os, microsoft  windows.
- icewm was written in c++.
linux can even be  configured to run on apples, ipod’s, or smart phones.
gnome is license under the lgpl license (lesser general public license).
some linux distro’s can only run one processor, while others can run many at once.
the name gnome stands  for gnu network object model environment.
for home use linux is cheap and in most cases completely free,  while windows varies in cost depending on which version you buy.
- mwm is based on the motif toolkit.
all versions of windows, weather windows  xp home, business, or vista, all updates, security patches, and service patches  for windows comes from microsoft.
it was really fast, too, since it booted itself entirely into the minuscule ram on the computer!
unlike widows linux is often lacking in professional tech support, and linux  users are often left on their own to solve technical issues.
the cost effectiveness of linux is another way it separates itself from windows.
although windows offers its control panel to help users  configure the computer to their liking, it does not match the configuring  options that linux provides especially if you are a real tech savvy user.
kde aims to make an easy to use desktop environment without sacrificing configurability.
an example would be if you were trying to install software that was made for the kde graphical environment, on the gnome gui, this app would not easily install on the gnome gui, and would require some configuring on your part to successfully install it.
if you are using the kde  edition of mint, then you probably love the new plasma and don’t mind the  extra resources that this uses over the old kde 3.
it also allows users to manipulate items with the drag and drop function or use the point and click function to execute applications on the desktop itself.
the license allows applications written for gnome to use a much wider set of licenses, including some commercial applications.
the first distro we will look at is a bit dated, but it is the most recent fluxbox edition of linux mint,linux mint 9 fluxbox edition, and is a damn fine distro that i must say looks great and it’s fun to use.
a programmer student named linus torvalds first made linux as a variant of  the unix operating system in 1991.
finally, for  comparison’s sake we also looked at the modern, full-featured gnome  distro,linux mint 12.
the next lowest contender in regards to initial system  usage ispclinuxos 2011.08 openbox edition.
text based command line configuration and control can provide a  comprehensive method for daily computer management and operation.
robert is an author who specializes in niche markets.
the disadvantage of recovering windows is the fact that you will loose all of your data, which resides on the damaged copy of windows.”
in  linux the kernel is open source, so if you have the know how, you can modify it  in virtually any way that you see fit.
it allows users to  utilize applications without a full desktop environment installed.
a more important reason is that  running a virus on a linux machine is more difficult and requires a lot more  input from the user.
we booted each distro using default boot  options, then opened a terminal window and ran the ‘top ‘ command.
the only way the user can damage the whole computer would be if he or she logged in as root user by providing the root user name and password to the terminal before running the virus.
one notable feature of gnome is the fact that it supports many different languages; gnome supports over 100 different languages.
mint also has some features like mintinstall and mintupdate.
one big problem i encountered with this version as i occasionally did with subsequent ones is that getting linux to talk to a usb wi-fi adapter is much tougher than i would suspect a pci wi-fi adapter.
anti virus software often has the negative side effect of hogging system resources, thus slowing down your entire computer, also most anti virus software requires that you pay a subscription service, and that you constantly download updates in order to stay ahead of the intruders.
one reason why  viruses and spy-ware are not a problem for linux is simply due to the fact that  there are far fewer being made for linux.
linux mint 8 fluxbox has all this already done for you setting it up so that everything works that way you need it to.
thirdly, we are looking at crunchbang 10 (statler) running openbox.
it offers minimal support for  graphical icons.
the first distro we will look at is a bit dated,
both desktop environments and windows mangers provide a graphical  method for users to control and configure a unix operating system, without the  need for using text based command line control.
you may be presented with a  graphical installer or it may be a text-based installer, these variations make  linux a bit more difficult and unpredictable to install than is windows,  (although the difficulty is disappearing).
windows includes a much wider abundance of  commercially backed applications than does linux.
an example would be if  you were trying to install software that was made for the kde graphical  environment, on the gnome gui, this app would not easily install on the gnome  gui, and would require some configuring on your part to successfully install it.
he wanted a gui for the unix desktop that would make all of the applications look and feel alike.
viruses, spy-ware and a general lack of security are the  biggest problems facing the windows community.
for starters there is only one company that releases a windows operating  system, and that company is microsoft.
in conclusion we will conclude that the linux os really is the superior  software.
some of the more common graphical environments that can run on linux include the following.
- openbox was originally based on blackbox 0.65.0.
for starters there is only one company that releases a windows operating system, and that company is microsoft.
while this can be done by expert users,  newer users have a hard time knowing all the pieces that you will need to make  it work properly.
it  provides very basic features.
one graphical user interface that is good for older hardware is fluxbox.
much like kde gnome is open source and is free to download.
in linux the  only realistic reason you would need virus protection is if you share files  with windows users, and that is to protect them not you, so you are not to  accidentally pass a virus to the windows computer that you are sharing files  with.
linux will run on many different hardware platforms, from intel and amd  chips, to computers running ibm power pc processors.
he wanted a gui for the unix desktop that would make all of the  applications look and feel alike.
ituses so little resources that even a machine that is nearly 10 years old can run it well.
linux will run on the slowest 386 machines to the biggest mainframes on the planet, newer versions of windows will not run on the same amount of hardware as linux.
it was created for use with the gnome desktop environment.
gnome is based on the gtk+ programming language and allows applications to be integrated within the desktop.
you can even use linux as a dedicated firewall to help protect other  machines that are on the same network.
windows includes a much wider abundance of commercially backed applications than does linux.
you can also perform a repair install, in which case you are installing the same version of windows on top of itself in order to fix a damaged version of windows.
it’s actually based on ubuntu which will still give you access to  those repositories giving you easy access to installing software that you need.
tags: afterstep, blackbox, ctwm, desktop environments, enlightenment, fluxbox, fvwm, gnome, icewm, kde, lxde, metacity, mwm, openbox, sawfish, twm, window maker, x window manager, xfce differences between linux and windows by matt gebhardt
finally, for comparison’s sake we also looked at the modern, full-featured gnome distro,linux mint 12.
weighing in at 50mb, the highly-regarded, extremely light weight distribution proved to live up to its billing, however it certainly wasn’t as user friendly as i would have liked.
fluxbox and xfce are some popular alternatives  to these.
all of this configurability can be problematic sometimes, as you will have to make a decision on which desktop is right for you, and to make things easier on yourself you will need to only install applications that are native to your distribution and graphical environment.
this post proudly written using firefox on linux mint 9 fluxbox edition!
initially i tried to get the pc working with a linux distro that would allow me to get online wirelessly with my router using that usb wireless-g adapter mentioned earlier.
the fact that linux is more secure is the tipping point, that tilts  the scales in the favor of linux.
my next linux distro to try was puppy linux, the 100mb powerhouse.
tags: fluxbox, kde, kubuntu, mint, ubuntu, xfce linux mint 8 fluxbox edition – a low power modern linux desktop saturday, december 24th, 2011 |learn linux - linux help |
linux is capable of running on devices as simple as a wrist watch, or a cell phone, but it can also run on a home computer using, for example intel, or amd processors, and its even capable of running on high end servers using sun sparc cpu’s or ibm power pc processors.
linux mint comes with proprietary drivers installed to play music, dvd, flash, and java.
mint also  has some features like mintinstall and mintupdate.
as you can see, the alternate window manager distros really do start with a  lower system memory footprint, however that isn’t always the case we  discovered by looking at crunchbang.
other than a few minor nuisances, linux out performs windows in most  categories.
and of course the biggest difference in this writer’s opinion is the fact that linux does not suffer from an onslaught of viruses and other malicious code, unlike windows which is plagued by countless number of malicious code that can easily destroy your system if not properly guarded against.
it’s comes with a fresh blue look to it with the default kde grey title bars.
other advantages include the ability to rescue a broken linux system.
tags: afterstep, blackbox, ctwm, desktop environments, enlightenment, fluxbox, fvwm, gnome, icewm, kde, lxde, metacity, mwm, openbox,  sawfish, twm, window maker, x window manager, xfce differences between linux and windows friday, november 27th, 2009 |  learn linux - linux help | 5 comments differences between linux and windows by matt gebhardt
distributions such as  linspire are best suited for users that are migrating over from the windows  world.
the cost effectiveness of linux is another way it separates itself  from windows.
much like kde gnome is open  source and is free to download.
you can usually receive responses for your questions in a matter of hours form many qualified people.
also linux offers a variety of graphical  environments to further suit your needs.
it’s what’s called a community edition meaning that volunteers  actually put this distribution together.
matthias ettrich developed kde in 1996.
since linux is capable of reading ntfs files you may  copy files form a windows computer to a usb flash drive or floppy drive etc.
with less of an emphasis on ease of use and eye candy, fluxbox aims to be a very lightweight, and a more efficient user of system resources.
it provides very basic features.
another popular gui is (ref #7) gnome.
you can also perform a repair install, in which case you are installing the  same version of windows on top of itself in order to fix a damaged version of  windows.
however with linux a virus would need to run in the terminal, which requires the user to give the file execute permissions, and then open it in the terminal.
some distributions of linux include gentoo, and slackware, which due to the lack of a complete graphical environment is best, suited for linux experts, programmers, and other users that know their way around a command prompt.
“linux has two parts, they include the kernel mentioned previously, and in most circumstances it will also include a graphical user interface, which runs atop the kernel” reference #3.
the vendors that charge money  for their distribution of linux are also required to release a free version in  order to comply with the gpl license agreement.
it’s actually based on ubuntu which will still give you access to those repositories giving you easy access to installing software that you need.
tags:fluxbox, gnome, kde, mint, ubuntu, xfce using graphic interfaces to control unix operating systems wednesday, december 21st, 2011 |learn linux - linux help |
windows users might note that kde has a  similar look to windows.
the x window manager is an application that controls the function of the x window system.
the above was a general over view of some differences between the windows  operating system, and linux.
windows users might note that kde has a similar look to windows.
with windows you are only allowed to install it on one computer and microsoft uses product activation software to enforce this rule.
- sawfish is written with a scripting language that is similar to lisp.
but it’s a lot of fun looking at the latest in mini-linux and seeing what this machine is still capable of.
the last offering we are looking at today is the latest crunchbang distro, based on debian that comes in at a very surprising 815 mb of ram – i’m really puzzled by that number and i’d love to know why it comes in so high on this test.
the problem is that you  will have to configure it to work well.
the author has developed a website dedicated to the excalibur food  dehydrator of which he is a big fan.
the interface has only a taskbar and a menu bar, which is accessed by right clicking over the desktop.
examples of commands include the  cd command for changing your directory, or the halt command for shutting down  your system, or the reboot command for restarting the computer ect.
windows simply suffers from far to many security vulnerabilities for it to be considered the better over all desktop environment.
we booted each distro using default boot options, then opened a terminal window and ran the ‘top ‘ command.
the vendors that charge money for their distribution of linux are also required to release a free version in order to comply with the gpl license agreement.
linux will run on the  slowest 386 machines to the biggest mainframes on the planet, newer versions of  windows will not run on the same amount of hardware as linux.
it was created for use with the gnome  desktop environment.
other linux distributions aim at making the computing  experience as easy as possible.
it also comes with proprietary plugins already installed like flash and java as well as the codex that you will need to play certain music formats on your computer.
however with linux a virus would need to run in the terminal,  which requires the user to give the file execute permissions, and then open it  in the terminal.
- ctwm is based on twm.
the distro ships with jwm / icewm + rox desktop user interfaces for your convenience.
it provides rudimentary gnome desktop support and multiple workspaces.
come visit his latest websitehttp://www.dragonvoicerecognition.org for product information regarding voice recognition software.
linus torvalds made linux open source with the gnu (gpl) (general public license), so other programmers could download the source code free of charge and alter it any way they see fit.
kde aims to make an easy to use desktop environment  without sacrificing configurability.
graphical user interfaces eliminate the tedious memorization of text based commands.
there is a  clean install, in which you install windows on a blank hard drive.
thousands of coders throughout the world began downloading and altering the source code of linux, applying patches, and bug fixes, and other improvements, to make the os better and better.
now that we are more familiar with the linux operating system, we can note the many ways in which linux differs from the worlds most popular os, microsoft windows.
by default it also uses firefox and thunderbird instead of the traditional kde browser and mail programs.
crunchbang 10 (statler)
(ref #1) one of the most notable differences between the two operating  software’s is windows legendary problems with malicious code, known as  viruses and spy ware.
kde is based on the qt 4 programming language and allows applications to be  integrated within the desktop.
of course the downside of ease of  use is less configurability, and wasted system resources on graphics  processing.
if your linux computer will not boot, then you may insert a live  cd and boot off it, so you can repair the damaged version of linux.
also finding applications for windows is easier  because of its popularity most apps are available for windows only, and are  made easily available.
special commands must be used which may require additional modifiers to invoke the desired computer function.
with linux most of the applications will also be free, however for windows in the majority of cases you are suppose to pay for the applications.
over the years linux has gone from a simple text based clone of unix, to a powerful operating software, with full-featured desktop environments, and unprecedented portability, and a variety of uses.
the following are open source / free desktop environment packages for the unix operating systems.
there are many who are split  on the differences between the two but users have gradually accepted version  four’s changes.
you may perform a clean install of  linux or dual boot it, to co-exist with another operation software.
it is much easier to find the software that you are looking for with windows than it is with linux, because so many software vendors make their products compatible with windows only.
the x window manager also controls how users interact with these graphical interfaces.
there are also versions of linux that are designed to emulate the windows look and feel as closely as possible.
generally it’s a version behind the main version of mint but still has everything you need.
the problem is that very few distributions actually have a fluxbox edition.
most of the  original unix code has also been gradually written out of linux over the years.
installing the windows operating software and applications is easier due to the fact that it has a universal installer.
(ref#1) (ref #1) installation of windows is generally easier, than installing  linux.
the type of hard ware that linux and windows runs on also causes them to differ.
take a look at his site for some great deals and a guide to buying one.
(ref#1) (ref #1) installation of windows is generally easier, than installing linux.
in linux the only realistic reason you would need virus protection is if you share files with windows users, and that is to protect them not you, so you are not to accidentally pass a virus to the windows computer that you are sharing files with.
unlike widows linux is often lacking in professional tech support, and linux users are often left on their own to solve technical issues.
with linux  rather than having to buy an upgrade cd, you can install updates by downloading  and then installing them while your desktop is running.
software that is made to install on one version probably will require some  configuration in order to install on another version.
linux is capable of running on devices  as simple as a wrist watch, or a cell phone, but it can also run on a home  computer using, for example intel, or amd processors, and its even capable of  running on high end servers using sun sparc cpu’s or ibm power pc  processors.
if you  have a problem with ubuntu linux you cannot call ubuntu and expect any help.
with linux on the other hand there is not one  company that releases it.
instead of the brown and orange colors, it uses greens and blacks to create a pretty slick looking desktop.