he will then oppose the use of linux at his company, or in other  situations where it would actually work well and be an improvement.
the figure to the right shows the the value of certain operating systems as a function of the proficiency of the user.
the microsoft corporation is in the business of selling software.
remember that while red hat would love for linux to be as easy to use as  possible, they are limited in what they can achieve.
so it is with operating systems.
this means that the products the company makes will have coherent  priorities and objectives, determined by market research, the company's  long-term plan, or managers' priviate political agendas.
copyright © 2002 byterran melconian.
that's hardly to your advantage.
at  these companies, there are professional managers who decide how things are  going to be, and the actual programmers are compelled to implement things in  this fashion.
it is in the  initial author's best interests to do what the one programmer wants!
if you can't type without looking, frustration lies ahead.
let's consider that.
if you expect your computer to have a learning curve like your toaster, or you just want to "get on the internet" and "do your email", you would have to be insane to try linux.
the  non-programmer end users will never contribute anything back to the original  author, but the programmer may.
it was originally developed by at&t, which was very muchnot in the business of selling software - in fact, they were legally not allowed to sell software (see one of the unix history links above for details).
if you're interested in the  history of unix, you can readthis unix history from dennis ritchie, or this  history of unix, linux, and gnu.
linux does more good than something  like microsoft windows for an expert, but it does considerably less for a  non-expert.
it doesn't matter if it would be harder for you to do work on your computer,  because you'renot doing any work on your computer.
linux, on the other hand, consists of components largely developed by  volunteers.
it's set up so that you can do things quickly once you've learned, but you won't be able to do thingsat all before you've put some time into figuring out what's going on.
all other rights reserved.
this is linux linux is not unix, but it operates in a similar  fashion, with the same fundamental constructs, and even commands which mostly  have the same names and take compatible options.
here's a postcard for your effort there are some situations in which linux is an appropriate solution.
- incompetent users drain linux's resources - incompetent users never read the documentation before they ask for help, and they ask for help with the stupidest and most trivial problems.
they were primarilyusers of  the software.
a linux computer, properly installed and configured, would stay up for months and be down 0.1% of the time.
if your watch alarm goes off at the same time each day, and you can't  figure out how to turn it off, linux is not for you.
beacuse these people are not being paid to work on linux, they  cannot be compelled to do things in any way they do not like, as there is  nothing with which they can be threatened.
how can you tell if you belong on the left or right side of the chart?
by all means, recommend linux to people  who have already demonstrated an inclination to learn, and are feeling limited  by their current environment.
understanding this difference is crucial.
well, of course they do - it's in their best interest to sell as  many copies as possible.
this wastes the developers' time.
to use linux, you must want to learn
general home use is not one of them, but i'd  like to conclude with a list of what they are: a company with professional system administrators
well, of course they do - it's in their best interest to sell as many copies as possible.
incompetent users hurt linux's reputation
contact, unfortunately now obfuscated due to ongoing spammer harvesting, is [myfirstname] at consistent.org.
thus, they do not need to sell the component to get value from it - they get value from using it themselves.
however, they do not manufactur the transistors and capacitors  themselves - they obtain them from outside.
the only sort of reward authors ever get is receiving improvements to the things they have written.
this is the  fundamental reason that linux differs so much from proprietary operating  systems.
note that macos 10 is a special beast,  and my comments here refer primarily to earlier versions.
thus, they do not need to sell the component to get value from it - they get  value from using it themselves.
this is time which the developer would otherwise have spent making the  software better, for the sake of assisting incompetent users who will never  contribute anything useful.
in the case of linux, the distributor has no pull with the authors because they aren't paying the authors at all!
if you already get someone else (such as a relative, or the 12 year old  next door) to do the work on your computer for you, you have nothing to lose!
you may mirror this page for personal  use.
- myth: once people use linux, they will learn -
with linux, most customers are wrong as discussed above, some linux distributions which sell their product  want to keep their customers happy, and want to appeal to as many customers as  possible.
the figure to the right shows the the value of certain operating systems as  a function of the proficiency of the user.
they cannot cause  fundamental changes to most of the components in the distribution.
you can ask yourself some simple questions.
unix-like operating systems were generally found to be better, having advantages such as higher reliability and lower cost.
even if the developer isn't going to reply to the email,  time is still required to wade through it and sort it out from the important  stuff.
in the case of electronics manufacturers, the kit supplier has little pull because the quantities they buy are so small.
the system administrators generally know enough about what they're doing  that linux would be advantageous for them.
if it is improved upon by others, the original author can then  use the improved version and obtain extra utility without having put in the  effort to improve it himself.
if you cannot reset the time on your vcr when there is a power failure, you are not proficient enough to use linux.
some of this fame is  hype, and some of that hype is utter bullshit.
he will then oppose the use of linux at his company, or in other situations where it would actually work well and be an improvement.
this section attempts to explain why it is contrary to the linux user's best interests to advocate linux to the masses.
this is linux linux is not unix, but it operates in a similar fashion, with the same fundamental constructs, and even commands which mostly have the same names and take compatible options.
this means, of course, that they design it to operate in a way that they would like to use.
suppose that a windows computer reboots twice a day,  and is down 5% of the time (these numbers are made up for the sake of the  example).
this page most recently modified on: monday, 28-jan-2002 01:45:13 est copyright © 2002 byterran melconian.
this page most recently modified on: monday, 28-jan-2002 01:45:13 est - a company with professional system administrators - the system administrators generally know enough about what they're doing that linux would be advantageous for them.
thus, i'll attempt to describe linux by comparing it to modern pc operating systems like microsft windows and macos.
however, they do not manufactur the transistors and capacitors themselves - they obtain them from outside.
because these people are,  by definition, programmers, most of the software is tailored to be used by  someone as technically proficient as a programmer.
apple is in the business of selling hardware and software.
this means, of course, that they design  it to operate in a way that they would like to use.
while i wouldn't call it lying, it's definitely marketing, and needs to be taken with a large heap of salt.
a linux computer, properly installed and configured, would stay up  for months and be down 0.1% of the time.
furthermore, because their value is derived from the use of it, it is in their best interests to allow other people to improve upon it.
there are many things for which linux works well, although general home  use is not among them.
furthermore, because most linux authors receive no compensation whatsoever from an additional user using their software, there is no incentive for them to make it easier for non-technical people to use.
linux does more good than something like microsoft windows for an expert, but it does considerably less for a non-expert.
the more advanced and enterprising ones have custom circuit boards printed.
if they haven't learned enough to feel limited, however, it is counterproductive to recommend they move to something harder.
it will be equally easy for you, and easier for  your friend who does the real work on your computer.
thus, the only people whose opinions they care about  are those who are capable of making such improvements!
one of the largest advantages of linux is the availability of source code,  which allows you to modify programs to suit your taste... assuming you know  how.
- you will not obtain the advantages for which linux is famous - there have been some famous papers written comparing unix-like operating systems, including linux, to microsoft windows.
hello linux is becoming famous, even to users of microsoft windows  operating systems who have no personal experience with it.
thus, the authors have no incentive  whatsoever to work to increase the number of copies sold, or the number of  users.
suppose there are 100 non-programmer end users who want a feature to be implemented in one way, and one programmer who wants it implemented in a different way.
of course, it also hurts your personal reputation if people follow your advice and have a horrible experience.
you may mirror this page for personal use.
if you have sticky notes attached to your monitor reminding you the exact steps to perform certain tasks, changing to linux will require you to simply replace your sticky notes with different instructions.
now that we've discussed the profound lack of advantages  to be had by converting people to linux, get out there and keep your mouth shut.
specifically, there are some lies being told to try to get windows or mac users to switch to linux.
- linux is free - the people who write linux, the gnu utilities which support it, and most software for linux give it away forfree.
if you can't type without  looking, frustration lies ahead.
contact, unfortunately now obfuscated due  to ongoing spammer harvesting, is [myfirstname] at consistent.org.
this means that when  microsoft decides that configuration is going to be done primarily via the  graphical interface, the programmers can either implement configuration via the  graphical interface or start collecting unemployment.
this means it also comes with source  code, which means that you can modify it to make a custom version, something  that is not possible (and is actually illegal even when it is technically  possible) with proprietary software such as microsoft windows.
the company  draws up instructions, and packages components which are suitable for a  particular purpose.
they cannot cause fundamental changes to most of the components in the distribution.
however, they money they get stays with the distributor, and never  reaches most of the initial authors.
this means that the products the company makes will have coherent priorities and objectives, determined by market research, the company's long-term plan, or managers' priviate political agendas.
however, a home user who tries linux and is unsuccessful  with it will not come away from the experience thinking "i'm too dumb to  use linux", he will come away from the experience thinking "linux is  crap!"
if you have sticky  notes attached to your monitor reminding you the exact steps to perform certain  tasks, changing to linux will require you to simply replace your sticky notes  with different instructions.
in addition to distributors such as red hat, the people who make the gnome andkde environments are trying to make linux easy to use.
this wastes  the developers' time.
if red hat decides that a certain fundamental change is going to be required to make the software easier to use, programmer jim who works on linux for free is going to say "bite me", and go about things exactly the way he was before.
it is likely to be  intimidating to someone with less skill.
the design of linux assumes that you want to learn.
- incompetent users hurt linux's reputation - there are many things for which linux works well, although general home use is not among them.
it will be equally easy for you, and easier for your friend who does the real work on your computer.
myth: once people use linux, they will learn
thus, i'll attempt to describe linux by comparing it to modern pc operating  systems like microsft windows and macos.
most of the people who write components for linux do so because they want, in the course of their work or hobbies, touse the component in question.
if reading c is like reading swahili to you, there's no advantage whatsoever in having the source code, because you don't know what to do with it anyway.
if you're interested in the history of unix, you can readthis unix history from dennis ritchie, or this history of unix, linux, and gnu.
if reading c is like reading swahili to you, there's no advantage  whatsoever in having the source code, because you don't know what to do with it
there are some companies which sell linux "distributions", such  as red hat.
incompetent users drain linux's resources incompetent users never read the documentation before they ask for help,  and they ask for help with the stupidest and most trivial problems.
please go home now just as it's usually not to the advantage of a new  user to use linux, it's not to linux's advantage either.
now that i've discussed the nature of linux, i'll explain why it's probably not the right solution for home use by an average person.
there is a point on the figure at which linux becomes more valuable than alternatives; use linux if your proficiency exceeds this amount.
however, you will not be able to properly install and configure a linux server - soyour linux computer will never reboot, because it never runs at all, and it will be down 100% of the time!
linux is tailored for the technically proficient remember that authors of linux software are generally people who want to use the software they write.
by all means, recommend linux to people who have already demonstrated an inclination to learn, and are feeling limited by their current environment.
the companies which sell linux are not its authors - there are some companies which sell linux "distributions", such as red hat.
general home use is not one of them, but i'd like to conclude with a list of what they are: now that we've discussed the profound lack of advantages to be had by converting people to linux, get out there and keep your mouth shut.
if you're an old hand with unix, however, this article is not for you.
it is in the initial author's best interests to do what the one programmer wants!
here's a postcard for your effort there are some situations in which  linux is an appropriate solution.
in the case of linux, the  distributor has no pull with the authors because they aren't paying the authors  at all!
however, a home user who tries linux and is unsuccessful with it will not come away from the experience thinking "i'm too dumb to use linux", he will come away from the experience thinking "linux is crap!"
even if you're  competent and linux is ideal for you, pleasedon't recommend it to other people.
suppose there are 100  non-programmer end users who want a feature to be implemented in one way, and  one programmer who wants it implemented in a different way.
even if the developer isn't going to reply to the email, time is still required to wade through it and sort it out from the important stuff.
suppose that a windows computer reboots twice a day, and is down 5% of the time (these numbers are made up for the sake of the example).
however, most of what these companies are selling are not things  that they developed in-house, but instead generic linux components which they  obtained from elsewhere.
they were primarilyusers of the software.
also note that while i describe linux below, most of the comments also apply to the bsd operating systems which run on a pc.
you are expected to study and understand the underlying operations  that your computer uses to perform tasks before you attempt to perform these  tasks.
if they're happy with what they have, leave them in peace.
apple is in the business of selling  hardware and software.
some of this fame is hype, and some of that hype is utter bullshit.
most of  the people who write components for linux do so because they want, in the  course of their work or hobbies, touse the component in question.
the only sort of reward authors ever get is receiving improvements to the  things they have written.
- with linux, most customers are wrong - as discussed above, some linux distributions which sell their product want to keep their customers happy, and want to appeal to as many customers as possible.
if you currently use microsoft windows or macos, and were considering giving linux a try, read on to find out how you've probably been misled, and why you're most likely better off sticking with what you have now.
the non-programmer end users will never contribute anything back to the original author, but the programmer may.
- to use linux, you must want to learn - the design of linux assumes that you want to learn.
- you are probably not technically proficient - how can you tell if you belong on the left or right side of the chart?
the distributors are biased companies like red hat advertise a great deal about how easy to use their  produce is.
if the developer is a nice guy and actually replies, even more time is  wasted!
this is true even from the point of view of the users - would you accept a system which is slightly more complicated, in exchange for having it not randomly fail for hours at a time like the current one?
at these companies, there are professional managers who decide how things are going to be, and the actual programmers are compelled to implement things in this fashion.
because these people are, by definition, programmers, most of the software is tailored to be used by someone as technically proficient as a programmer.
to understand this, you have to realize that people who write software for linux are not in the business of selling software.
if you cannot reset the time on  your vcr when there is a power failure, you are not proficient enough to use  linux.
now that i've discussed the nature of linux, i'll  explain why it's probably not the right solution for home use by an average  person.
hello linux is becoming famous, even to users of microsoft windows operating systems who have no personal experience with it.
furthermore, the kit manufacturer has little control over the specifications of the parts they buy - if they would like some small change in a component to make it integrate better into their project, they are not guaranteed to be able to get this change from the manufacturer.
using an environment such  as linux will not encourage people to learn, because if they are not already  inclined to learn and be curious, they will never notice any of the important  differences between linux and windows!
they will never be able to achieve the same level of success as microsoft or apple, however, because they cannot mandate changes to the underlying functionality to support ease-of-use like microsoft and apple can.
this means that when microsoft decides that configuration is going to be done primarily via the graphical interface, the programmers can either implement configuration via the graphical interface or start collecting unemployment.
beacuse these people are not being paid to work on linux, they cannot be compelled to do things in any way they do not like, as there is nothing with which they can be threatened.
if the developer is a nice guy and actually replies, even more time is wasted!
unix-like operating systems  were generally found to be better, having advantages such as higher reliability  and lower cost.
this is the fundamental reason that linux differs so much from proprietary operating systems.
they do the work because they love it, and if they stopped loving it, they would stop doing it.
linux is not developed by a corporation microsoft windows is sold by microsoft, and macos is sold by apple.
if  they're happy with what they have, leave them in peace.
you are expected to study and understand the underlying operations that your computer uses to perform tasks before you attempt to perform these tasks.
if you currently use microsoft windows or macos, and were  considering giving linux a try, read on to find out how you've probably been  misled, and why you're most likely better off sticking with what you have now.
this is a nice dream, but it's simply not true.
even if other people at the company use the computers, the advantage of having computers which are more easily maintained by the experts is often enough to outweigh the fact that they may be slightly harder to use by the users (particularly since there are in-house experts to help).
it's set up so that  you can do things quickly once you've learned, but you won't be able to do  thingsat all before you've put some time into figuring out what's  going on.
there is a point on the figure at which linux becomes more valuable  than alternatives; use linux if your proficiency exceeds this amount.
furthermore, because their value is derived  from the use of it, it is in their best interests to allow other people to  improve upon it.
one of the largest advantages of linux is the availability of source code, which allows you to modify programs to suit your taste... assuming you know how.
even if you're competent and linux is ideal for you, pleasedon't recommend it to other people.
the more advanced and enterprising ones have custom circuit  boards printed.
thus, the only people whose opinions they care about are those who are capable of making such improvements!
there have been some famous papers written comparing unix-like operating  systems, including linux, to microsoft windows.
if the microsoft usability labs report that a certain fundamental change is going to be required to make the software easier to use, programmer bob at microsoft is going to say "yesssir" to his manager when told to make the change.
this section attempts to explain why it is contrary to the  linux user's best interests to advocate linux to the masses.
however, most of what these companies are selling are not things that they developed in-house, but instead generic linux components which they obtained from elsewhere.
you will not obtain the advantages for which linux is famous
note that macos 10 is a special beast, and my comments here refer primarily to earlier versions.
in addition to distributors such as red hat, the people who make the gnome  andkde environments are trying to make linux easy to use.
given the choice between $10 cash, or a locked safe containing $100, which  would you choose?
it is likely to be intimidating to someone with less skill.
if the  microsoft usability labs report that a certain fundamental change is going to  be required to make the software easier to use, programmer bob at microsoft is  going to say "yesssir" to his manager when told to make the change.
however, they money they get stays with the distributor, and never reaches most of the initial authors.
also note that while  i describe linux below, most of the comments also apply to the bsd operating  systems which run on a pc.
a computer you don't fix yourself anyway
if you're an expert safecracker, it makes sense to choose the  safe, but for the rest of us, we're better off choosing the lesser amount that  we can actually use.
linux is similar - if red hat wants a change to a part of linux,  they'll have to ask the person or people who write that part, and they might or  might not get what they ask for.
these companies are like companies which sell electronics kits.
you are probably not technically proficient
using an environment such as linux will not encourage people to learn, because if they are not already inclined to learn and be curious, they will never notice any of the important differences between linux and windows!
specifically, there are some  lies being told to try to get windows or mac users to switch to linux.
linux is similar - if red hat wants a change to a part of linux, they'll have to ask the person or people who write that part, and they might or might not get what they ask for.
linux is free the people who write linux, the gnu utilities which support it, and most  software for linux give it away forfree.
even if other people at the company use the computers, the advantage of having computers which are more  easily maintained by the experts is often enough to outweigh the fact that they  may be slightly harder to use by the users (particularly since there are  in-house experts to help).
if it is improved upon by others, the original author can then use the improved version and obtain extra utility without having put in the effort to improve it himself.
that's hardly to your  advantage.
if you expect your computer to have a learning curve like your toaster,  or you just want to "get on the internet" and "do your  email", you would have to be insane to try linux.
this is what they do, and they could not possibly give it away for free instead of selling it, because they would immediately go bankrupt.
if you're an expert safecracker, it makes sense to choose the safe, but for the rest of us, we're better off choosing the lesser amount that we can actually use.
if red hat decides that a certain fundamental change is going to be required to  make the software easier to use, programmer jim who works on linux for free is  going to say "bite me", and go about things exactly the way he was  before.
- linux is tailored for the technically proficient - remember that authors of linux software are generally people who want to use the software they write.
to understand this, you have to realize that people who write software for  linux are not in the business of selling software.
if your watch alarm goes off at the same time each day, and you can't figure out how to turn it off, linux is not for you.
furthermore, because most linux  authors receive no compensation whatsoever from an additional user using their  software, there is no incentive for them to make it easier for non-technical  people to use.
this is time which the developer would otherwise have spent making the software better, for the sake of assisting incompetent users who will never contribute anything useful.
however, you will not be able to  properly install and configure a linux server - soyour linux computer  will never reboot, because it never runs at all, and it will be down 100% of  the time!
- linux is not developed by a corporation - microsoft windows is sold by microsoft, and macos is sold by apple.
the companies which sell linux are not its authors
if they haven't learned enough to feel limited,  however, it is counterproductive to recommend they move to something harder.
of course, it also hurts your personal reputation if people  follow your advice and have a horrible experience.
unix, however, got started differently.
it was originally developed  by at&t, which was very muchnot in the business of selling  software - in fact, they were legally not allowed to sell software (see one of  the unix history links above for details).
in the case of electronics manufacturers, the kit supplier has little pull  because the quantities they buy are so small.
they will never be  able to achieve the same level of success as microsoft or apple, however,  because they cannot mandate changes to the underlying functionality to support  ease-of-use like microsoft and apple can.
given the choice between $10 cash, or a locked safe containing $100, which would you choose?
they do the work because they love  it, and if they stopped loving it, they would stop doing it.
this is what they do, and they could not possibly give  it away for free instead of selling it, because they would immediately go  bankrupt.
this means it also comes with source code, which means that you can modify it to make a custom version, something that is not possible (and is actually illegal even when it is technically possible) with proprietary software such as microsoft windows.
linux, on the other hand, consists of components largely developed by volunteers.
please go home now just as it's usually not to the advantage of a new user to use linux, it's not to linux's advantage either.
remember that while red hat would love for linux to be as easy to use as possible, they are limited in what they can achieve.
while i wouldn't call it lying, it's definitely  marketing, and needs to be taken with a large heap of salt.
furthermore, the kit manufacturer  has little control over the specifications of the parts they buy - if they  would like some small change in a component to make it integrate better into  their project, they are not guaranteed to be able to get this change from the  manufacturer.
the distributors are biased - companies like red hat advertise a great deal about how easy to use their produce is.
the microsoft corporation is  in the business of selling software.
- a computer you don't fix yourself anyway - if you already get someone else (such as a relative, or the 12 year old next door) to do the work on your computer for you, you have nothing to lose!
the company draws up instructions, and packages components which are suitable for a particular purpose.
this is completely different than the motivations of a company which sells a product, and the difference is important to understand.
this is completely different than the motivations of a company which sells  a product, and the difference is important to understand.
thus, the authors have no incentive whatsoever to work to increase the number of copies sold, or the number of users.
this tradition of development by users continues with linux today.
it doesn't matter if it would be harder for you to do work on your computer, because you'renot doing any work on your computer.
this is true even from the point of view of the  users - would you accept a system which is slightly more complicated, in  exchange for having it not randomly fail for hours at a time like the current  one?