and that is good (at least, from a security  point of view).
a base installation of debian, for example, simple won't contain x or the numerous security-hole-prone services that are installed by default in windows and the "recommended" installations of some of the desktop distributions of linux.
that i  can believe..... > i  have to confess that i keep making a heavier investment because i haven't found  anything that offers me as much capability or flexibility.
in joel's case, if he has to personally  admin the system, then windows is almost always the correct choice, simply  because of his level of expertise with the platform.
even windows update patches require more than two clicks, and then they usually require a reboot.
under windows, this is very difficult, if not impossible to  do.
i have to wholeheartedly agree with those posting about  security being in the hands of the admin.
ah, if only i could get one how gratefully i would downgrade  myself to mere user!
while win32 maintains a very robust kernel and chacl capability, the security is almost universally overridden by the default installation of assining all users as admin.
i don't know whether this is because there are many  more windows systems (and so more havoc for the hacker to wreak) or because the  windows systems are made by microsoft (and more hackers are ms haters).
wayne earl that was an insightful, reasoned, and fair treatment of the two operating  systems.
i'd rather be on a different system (even if slightly  less secure) where there isn't as much efforts being devoted to hacking my  system.
we also see people talking about how much the ms patches have to fix, but this is merely because a) it can find everything that needs to be fixed, all at once, and b) many require reboots, and most people would probably not enjoy multiple reboots.
we  could argue the neither setup is very secure (i'm not a network guru)...
under windows, this is very difficult, if not impossible to do.
bah humbug friday, november 07, 2003 joel, what about your current development/production environment - microsoft software not run on lx: no vb, mysql, iis, etc.
but  then i'm *used* to linux, i use linux at uni, and i use it at home.
any system is only as secure as the admin.
coupled with the task  scheduler (equivalent of cron), you have all the same automation tools  available to a unix admin.
why realplayer and quicktime can "steal" the file associations at will?
there is no  differentiation between a user installing a pure user mode application and a  device driver  no matter how malicious the intent of a user mode app, if  the os is secure and intact, the user mode app can only affect the user that  installed the program and the file which he has access to.
if you want something more sophisticated, there are tools like  altiris.
jeff carroll tuesday, november 11, 2003 i agree with jeff, admittedly most of my experience is in configuring  linux(this carefully drings me round to my point): i had very little  difficulty configuring the gateway in my flat to be fairly secure.
but there is insight into the process, there is peer-review,  and you can study the code (as if i would) if you want to.
web forums aren't really going to answer the question, there's the odd whackjob who equates linux and mozilla with the apocalypse (see most linux posts here, there's always someone).
we also use mysql  replication and it works very well.
sometimes you have to restart some service linking to an  updated library, or you have to check something.
depends on which os the admin is familiar with, doesn't it?
as for what users can access  in their os, it again falls in the hands of the admin.
under debian, a simple apt-get update; apt-get upgrade ssh
this box should be hardened, if running in "the  wild", by turning off x11's tcp connection (flag -nolisten tcp).
while you still have to wait for the update to become available, it is usually shorter than the windows update becomes available.
not so when  you are admin, you can easily and unknowingly destory the entire system.
when answering the  question "(why) is linux more secure than windows?"
interestingly, the linux developers resist,  tooth-and-nail, attempts to move to a higher-level language like python.
i think any arguments against the bash have to be weighted down due to the ubiquitous availability of much more robust alternatives such as perl from the linux command line.
both are great and i've seen whole  applications written in jscript, but i think you have little idea about how  powerful unix shell commands are.
but  it takes you 15 minutes to figure the same thing out in vb.net..
windows does a lot of things that linux doesn't try to do  (acls, for example), and if you need those features, there's no contest.
>choose "paranoid", and (whilst  humming the  black sabbath tune) >install away.
love apache's mod_rewrite?
anyone using debian security updates should read the dsas (debian security advisories) before upgrading, for at least two reasons: 1) you could find valuable information about the upgrade, as things to do before/after it.
if i  am a virus writer, and you are a user without admin privs, the worst i should  be able to do is infect/delete the files which you have access to.
if the difference is only "that someone hasn't done that yet", then the claim of better security is on pretty shaky ground.
those  immediately after blaster, et al) with hoards of linux evangelists using it as  an example of poor windows security, even though ms had a patch out before the  incident...
whichever os you like, but update it centrally from time to time and *don't* let anyone from within your intranet computers use internet access (this is not a joke, look at what happened to valve.
with linux, you can strip the system down, so that it does one thing  and one thing only.
you know the windows admin,  because he carries cd's and floppies around from desk to desk, installing or  upgrading software.
on a corporate network, windows is hardly remotely adminstratable.
bullet-proof it's *not* very high-level, but "glorified batch  file" is manifestly wrong.
there is nothing in linux that makes it inherently better (or inherently worse) than windows.
nobody will actually tell you  why, but you will still get a million answers, and the most usable answer will  probably be: don't ask!
bah humbug friday, november 07, 2003 joel, what about your current development/production environment -  microsoft software not run on lx: no vb, mysql, iis, etc.
perl is much more intelligent and moving from bash to perl has a learning curve  of less than an hour.
yep, just like you philo, i install ms security patches while typing.
but then again, remmember that using linux requires lots of hours learning, tweaking and understanding what you are doing while with windows its all point and click (you can never know what this point and clicks end you up with, but thats good old ms) s.kedem friday, november 07, 2003 openbsd, baby.
if linux is as secure/securable or more secure/securable than windows, that simply tilts the decision even more in favor of linux.
this is *only* because: 1) i've used linux for a long time and am familiar with updating and hardening it.
i then  get click a couple of times, and click on a button called install.
similar solutions exist for other distributions.
admins can control  this to very specific rights in just about any os i'm aware of.
myron a. semack saturday, november 08, 2003 as someone who's used unix shells extensively, my perspective is that the most important thing about the shell is that it's 1.
its not, and should be disabled -  especially when you're on the road, connecting to non-firewall protected  networks.
redhat has the  same.
it's downright amazing.
yes, linux (and some of the other free *nix dialects) are also developed by big groups of people.
while you still have to wait for the update to  become available, it is usually shorter than the windows update becomes  available.
with linux, you can strip the system down, so that it does one thing and one thing only.
by default neither system is anymore or less secure, they  each different approaches to security, which leads them open to different  problems.
and yes, i'm working for a quite large (high-tech) corporation, smaller than microsoft.
however, windows administrator is not the same as linux root.
what i do know is that i do not like to put trust in a single vendor.
on a linux system, you shouldn't be logged in as  root 24/7 because one typo can bring a system crashing to a halt.
even if windows is slightly more secure or securable (on a technical level) than linux, the number of hackers writing exploits of windows security weaknesses makes me think i'd be more secure on linux.
you can, however, use linux user mode from within such a machine: http://www.gentoo.org/doc/en/uml.xml ) 2.
a random debian developer, esteban manchado velázquez friday, november 07, 2003 i would also suggest debian (or any other linux distribution with frequent  security updates) if you wanted a (linux) system that is easy to keep update.
the answer is probably the only one that is free of  religious arguments and personal preferences.
a user-mode process under windows can't touch kernel memory, even if it is running as administrator.
wisdom  or stupidity?
admin experience is a  significant factor in determining the appropriate platform to run the task at  hand.
bill  gates thinks security is not an os's responsibility; instead, users (who don't  know the difference between a real error message and a web page designed to  look like one) should set up and properly configure firewalls, as well as  regularly install multi-mb patches over a dialup line.
on a linux system, you shouldn't be logged in as root 24/7 because one typo can bring a system crashing to a halt.
that is the worst and most exploited of all  windows security sins.
if the kernel is secure (see "good netfilter/iptables  config" pseudo entry in any faq)
if i am a virus writer, and you are a user without admin privs, the worst i should be able to do is infect/delete the files which you have access to.
we can't agree that there's a difference between the script-kiddie-launched, self-replicating, network-overflowing ms mail/web/sql virus du jour and an obscure ssh flaw that has to be manually exploited on a per-machine basis?
having said all that, microsoft's shoddy client software has ruined email, i'm sick to death of those damned 400k virus attachments filling up my mailbox.
that is,  for an admin to maintain blocks of machines, all amdin tasks must be made  through gui manipulation.
ok, default installation of redhat gives some basic firewall  rules: close* all ports, open some* ports, open all* ports.
of which  distribution?
to do this  in kernel mode you would presumably have to write an alternative i/o driver - a  bit of a sledgehammer to crack a nut.
willie abrams 6000/tcp  open        x11 fyi: a  typical redhat 8.0 distro after a default install, with no hardening.
hackers devote more resources to hacing windows.
there is nothing  comparable in windows to the flexibiltiy of the command line in unix; by  combining commands you can do pretty well everything, and there are more than  thirty years of collected commands to play with.
i can say that linux is demonstratibly more stable a platform than windows, and i say this with far, far more windows admin experience than linux experience.
historically, most attacks  come months after the original patch is released, so if you can keep up to the  patch schedule your risk is low enough.
bill gates thinks security is not an os's responsibility; instead, users (who don't know the difference between a real error message and a web page designed to look like one) should set up and properly configure firewalls, as well as regularly install multi-mb patches over a dialup line.
jonathan pearce tuesday, december 16, 2003 recent topics fog creek home
keeping it secure requires keeping the system up to  date and watching what's going on, just like any other system.
when answering the question "(why) is linux more secure than windows?"
regular users can not arbitrarily write to random parts of the registry.
under debian, a simple apt-get update; apt-get upgrade ssh will suffice.
so the short answer to "(why) is linux  more secure than linux" is: don't ask!
how do you do that with postgres?
security is an ever moving target, and no operating system is secure if  the os hasn't been patched properly, or if passwords aren't protected properly.
interestingly, the linux developers resist, tooth-and-nail, attempts to move to a higher-level language like python.
as an added bonus, i won't show up in the process list  when a user hits ctrl-altdel for the taskman.
although there may be no known  holes in xfree at the moment, x is too huge (and i consider myself rather  knowledgeable about x's low level and internals) to be certain that leaving the  tcp port open is a good idea.
security hotfixes are generally  available within a week of the announcement of the vulnerability, and  *obtaining* and installing a hotfix for windows is five mouse clicks (i just  counted - did an update while typing).
the  religious flame war about system security is kind of funny to watch  though.
now i've seen everything!
wayne earl friday, november 07, 2003 that was an insightful, reasoned, and fair treatment of the two operating systems.
debian's update system is automatic, free, reliable, fast, and (if you use the "stable" distribution) designed *specifically* for administrators who don't want to spend a lot of time messing around with running systems.
however, beyond the initial installation, *no* upgrade (barring  the use of new kernel features)
http://www.theregister.co.uk/content/6/33814.html friday, november 07, 2003 my experience is that linux is more securable than windows.
i think the  only os that can be called "inherently more secure" is openbsd, and  it accomplishes that by sacrificing a lot of functionality, which diminishes  the surface of attack.
the installation is also quite easy with debian - two commands  issued on the command line.
but that  is not enough!
if you buy  windows, whatever version, you put your trust in a huge corporation, with  internal conflicts and decisions taken for political reasons, or to please  stockholders, instead of for technical reasons.
http://www.itbusiness.ca/index.asp?theaction=61&sid=53897 of course, he forgets to mention that sometimes one patch breaks another, thus adding another layer of difficulty to the question of whom do you trust and when...
in fact, you can totally automate the installation of security patches.
the openhack iii was successfully protected by argus pitbull, even after hackers gaining root access.
i/o driver - a bit of a sledgehammer to crack a nut.
check out: http://cwashington.netreach.net/ and look at the automated stuff that's possible.
debian comes by default configured to  install security updates, so if you tell a "stable" machine to  "apt-get update && apt-get upgrade" on a nightly basis, it  will get any new security updates and install them while you sleep.
the badger wednesday, december 10, 2003 it does not take four hours of messing around with source to patch an ssh vulnerability.
this box should be hardened, if running in "the wild", by turning off x11's tcp connection (flag -nolisten tcp).
look at the openssh exploits for example: this is open source, and a lot of the developers and architects are crypto-weenies, and *still* we have new exploits, and "do not use *any* version older than...." warnings.
"the  fundamental problem of windows security is that all users run as admin all of  the time.
a user-mode process under windows  can't touch kernel memory, even if it is running as administrator.
i then get click a couple of times, and click on a button called install.
that doesn't fill me with confidence in iis, sql server 2k and co. michael koziarski saturday, november 08, 2003 you're right on most tnings in your last post myron, but i would take issue with you over the virtues of windows scripting language.
you mix that with the project limitations and you should get something  figured out.
ah, if only i could get one how gratefully i would downgrade myself to mere user!
on the  other hand in windows i would merely have had to click share connection and  enable firewall
active directly has a very powerful approach to security, which is considerably more granular than the simple ugo setup that *nixes offer.
the same concept is now part of windows 2003 and  xp professional under software permissions policy.
** hmm... *scratches head* **  and don't go on about ms-sql vs. mysql; i think we can all agree that any  database (even the lowly mysql, which powers slashdot's ~2 million hits/day) is  better than no database at all.
should require re-installation or  downtime.
look at the  openssh exploits for example: this is open source, and a lot of the developers  and architects are crypto-weenies, and *still* we have new exploits, and  "do not use *any* version older than...." warnings.
i can say that linux is demonstratibly more stable a platform than  windows, and i say this with far, far more windows admin experience than linux  experience.
the answer is probably the only one that is free of religious arguments and personal preferences.
now, to install an application that has sytem-wide effects, you do have to run it as administrator (no different than linux).
trevor b saturday, november 15, 2003 when comparing linux with windows as a secure server, you shouldn't use a  desktop distribution of linux such as mandrake or redhat as the point of  comparison on the linux side.
but then i'm *used* to linux, i use linux at uni, and i use it at home.
what i  do know is that i do not like to put trust in a single vendor.
and i trust linus torvalds, and the people he's chosen.
i  believe this is the only rationale that will convince you that system ____ is  more secure than windows.
hackers devote more resources to  hacing windows.
it works the same the other way around.
once enabled, just being  administrator is not sufficient to execute any program.
these systems are in a  constant flow of change and highly configurable, and it only takes 1  "insecurity" to make the system as a whole vulnerable, so when you  finally finish defining what you mean by "windows" and by  "linux" and ask the "why..?
now compare that with windows: you download the patch for a certain application for the website of the vendor(*) using a browser, then you click on the icon, then a gui starts, then you click 'next>>' a few times, and in the end you most probably have to restart (or not).
eh, no reason to, i guess.
anyway, anybody can quote  numbers until the cows come home.
herbert sitz friday, november 07, 2003 > we can't agree that there's a difference between the  script-kiddie-launched, self-replicating, network-overflowing ms mail/web/sql  virus du jour and an obscure ssh flaw that has to be manually exploited on a  per-machine basis?
herbert sitz friday, november 07, 2003 > we can't agree that there's a difference between the script-kiddie-launched, self-replicating, network-overflowing ms mail/web/sql virus du jour and an obscure ssh flaw that has to be manually exploited on a per-machine basis?
the code needs to provide evidence of its source, either particular path, registry key, signature, etc. kunal tuesday, november 25, 2003 i don't know about the real security of windows vs linux.
makes one wonder a - if it has ever been  done before (if so it hasn't been detected) b - if something similar  has ever been done to windows (you'll never find out) friday, november 07, 2003 personally, i prefer linux, but i think that any admin worth their salt  will tell you the same thing about security: you have to keep up with patches  or your system will be compromised.
to be vunerable for a week?
out of the box, windows xp gives you only 2  options:  the user is admin (can do everything, all the time), or the user  is a moron (cannont install anything at any time).
windows does a lot of things that linux doesn't try to do (acls, for example), and if you need those features, there's no contest.
we also cannot establish it by using the severity of bugs.
applications can be installed anywhere.
web forums aren't really going to answer the  question, there's the odd whackjob who equates linux and mozilla with the  apocalypse (see most linux posts here, there's always someone).
2) i've not really used windows in a 'hostile' environment.
an admirer of openbsd's security audits but  uses windows?
you can simply use runas, which works like sudo does under linux.
additionally, installing any software, not just user mode software becomes  a priv'd task in windows.
friday, november 07, 2003 just a note about debian security updates: glyph, you say you can  totally automate security updates.
under linux, i can raise the bar higher, making compromise much more difficult, in less time, with less effort, and less cost than under windows.
this was based on the security issues and problems we had with another application that was (and sadly is) completely tied to windows server/iis and sqlserver.)
", you will get answers that  will include new vulnerabilities and new patches that emerged after your  definition was completed.
of all these, the fundamental problem of windows security is that all users run as admin all of the time.
"last time a flaw was discovered in ssh, it took me four hours of compiling and messing around to patch it."
you can have ports  off, and kernels patched and users rights allowing them to do nothing but run  text editors, and still someone will find a way to do something they shouldn't  be doing.
that  the install isa breeze and comes with almost everything i need and nothing more  than that (no, not 1005 pointless image viewers, not 567 text editors, not 382  window managers, and not 47 implementations of ping) is a huge plus as far as  i'm concerned.
i didn't mean that there were no differences at all, security-wise...
running in user mode, or using the compatibility template if absolutely  necessary, would stop some viruses from installing, but as has been said, in a  corporate network everybody is normally running as a user with limited rights.
:-) wayne earl just watching - yeah.
i didn't mean that there were no differences at  all, security-wise...
but i very much doubt that their efforts amount to even a small  fraction of the efforts being devoted to hacking windows.
a random debian developer, esteban manchado velázquez friday, november 07, 2003 i would also suggest debian (or any other linux distribution with frequent security updates) if you wanted a (linux) system that is easy to keep update.
now some drivers, video drivers, for example, have to access the kernel, so i suppose it would be theoretically possible for a virus to install a device driver which then accesses the kernel.
a few  minutes later i check progress to see that the link has sent me to an error  message.
there are many more windows systems out there than there are linux systems.
regular users can not arbitrarily write to random  parts of the registry.
essentially, if you  need a server and aren't going to limit yourself to ms-only products - do  yourself a favour and have a look at the bsds and not only linux.
friday, november 07, 2003 > linux default installation is not* secure.
i use linux, i use it on my two desktops and my router / webserver etc.
nat ersoz sunday, november 09, 2003 joel, in regard to your comment about two clicks to securing the windows system: in many linux distributions (such as debian or mandrake), you can automatically install updates from the command line, (or even from a graphical utility).
the more secure of linux and windows would have to be linux, hands down - if you've chosen an appropriate distribution of linux, and haven't decided to install every single available software package.
system setting remain consistent, and can only be changed by root.
as far as i can  tell using linux should be the best option for an internet server.
admin experience is a significant factor in determining the appropriate platform to run the task at hand.
your system administrator can create very secure linux.
you can probably delete any file without touching the kernel, since admin normally owns the whole machine.
perl on unix, in the hands of a guru, is a very powerful tool  indeed.
are you ready to dig  into registry and reorder tdi drivers?
security hotfixes are generally available within a week of the announcement of the vulnerability, and *obtaining* and installing a hotfix for windows is five mouse clicks (i just counted - did an update while typing).
the caveat is that the system can be quite difficult to install initially, especially if you have esoteric hardware.
nat ersoz friday, november 07, 2003 to preface my comment, i should say that i don't really have much technical knowledge of security issues in linux and windows.
which regex engines do you know best?
there is much more harm it can do in rewriting the registry or the file system or whatever.
3 paragraphs of fanboyism without a single fact to back up a word he says?
if the  software is backed by simple 90s stack (webservermajor  languagedatabaseos) then i suppose going with you are  competent with.
that doesn't fill me with confidence in iis, sql server 2k and co. michael koziarski saturday, november 08, 2003 you're right on most tnings in your last post myron, but i would take issue  with you over the virtues of windows scripting language.
http://www.eweek.com/article2/0,4149,741388,00.asp surprisingly microsoft was not compromised once, oracle and sun were hit.
being vulnerable for a week is not the end of the world - and applying a patch that's going to break things is much worse.
and i'd have a moderately secure set up.
i would have  thought.
the unix analogy is the /etc/ directory (much maligned by windows devs/users).
stephen jones > unix programmers refuse to move to higher level languages because of  stubbornness.
our  findings based on my fundamental premise: mysql on mac os x server is more  secure than sqlserver on windows 2000 server.
is this a delayed message from 1996?
how do you do that properly with asp.net and iis6?
is your staff know  linux shell and development tools?
out of the box, windows xp gives you only 2 options: the user is admin (can do everything, all the time), or the user is a moron (cannont install anything at any time).
my post was to state that in my opinion,  linux is more "securable" (that is: better able to be secured) then  windows, not that it is more "secure" i base my opinion on my own  professional experience of administering significant numbers of systems of both  oses.
--oliver oliver hunt wednesday, november 12, 2003 come on people, haven't we learned by now that the least "secure" os is the one with the latest hack or virus headline.
"is linux more secure than windows?" is a  nonsensical question.
coupled with the task scheduler (equivalent of cron), you have all the same automation tools available to a unix admin.
i've only dabbled in wsh, but i must ask why microsoft  is coming up with *yet another shell* in the longhorn push.
our experience is this:  we have two server plaforms in our company that are similar to your situation;  sqlserver on windows 2000 server and mysql on mac os x server.
if the administrator is on-the-ball, you're os is as secure as it can be... ...until the next hack or virus comes out, that is.
i went to office updates.
i think any arguments against the bash have to be weighted down due to the  ubiquitous availability of much more robust alternatives such as perl from the  linux command line.
i admit that most of the times you have to do nothing, but anyway...
this topic is a preemptive haven for people whose immediate reaction when  asked how to build a reliable windows server is "use linux."
no system is secure when first installed.
and what problem you are trying to solve.
even perl on windows is pretty much stable these days.
we can't agree that there's a difference  between the script-kiddie-launched, self-replicating, network-overflowing ms  mail/web/sql virus du jour and an obscure ssh flaw that has to be manually  exploited on a per-machine basis?
i do think your example is a bit  specious.
that is, for an admin to maintain blocks of machines, all amdin tasks must be made through gui manipulation.
our findings based on my fundamental premise: mysql on mac os x server is more secure than sqlserver on windows 2000 server.
wednesday is patch day at microsoft, and there are new "critical" security patches to apply every week, along with many others.
http://news.com.com/2100-7355_3-5103670.html?tag=nefd_top just watching friday, november 07, 2003 insightful?
active directly has a very powerful approach to  security, which is considerably more granular than the simple ugo setup that  *nixes offer.
i mean a server which supports a decent web server (apache), a nice db (oracle, mysql etc.) , perl etc.
it's not just that there are hundreds of pages of them; it's the fact that you can combine them to pretty well do anything you want.
it's only a matter of time beofre someone  makes an application that looks just like the "enter admin password"  dialog, and then you'd have a whole new class of security breaches.
the code needs to  provide evidence of its source, either particular path, registry key,  signature, etc. kunal tuesday, november 25, 2003 i don't know about the real security of windows vs linux.
in practice, however, i have never seen a security update fail.)
i would have thought.
is this a delayed message from  1996?
stephen jones saturday, november 08, 2003 portabella, unix programmers refuse to move to higher level  languages because of stubbornness.
perl on unix, in the hands of a guru, is a very powerful tool indeed.
the real question is not how many sps and/or patches are released per year, but how many vulnerabilities are discovered per year.
first and foremost - kernels are hacked, not higher layers of software.
of course, if you've got expertise with windows and don't know (or want to know) how to do things the unix way, then you might be better off sticking with windows.
after half an hour i check to find that the button called install has taken me to a page which tells me i'm on the wrong ms site and has a link to another sql page.
essentially, if you need a server and aren't going to limit yourself to ms-only products - do yourself a favour and have a look at the bsds and not only linux.
it works the same the  other way around.
nat ersoz sunday, november 09, 2003 joel, in regard to your comment about two clicks to securing the windows  system: in many linux distributions (such as debian or mandrake), you can  automatically install updates from the command line, (or even from a  graphical utility).
the os is secure as well.
http://www.theregister.co.uk/content/6/33814.html brian friday, november 07, 2003
stephen jones sunday, november 09, 2003 stephen, even though a device driver may not access the kernel, there is nothing to prevent a driver from accessing the kernel.
"on a corporate network, windows is  hardly remotely adminstratable.
and this because the usability of windows has not followed the same clean design as the kernel was given.
for me, there's no question that it's the most secure option available.
a practice  which has been useful and honed over decades of use.
now, to install an application that has  sytem-wide effects, you do have to run it as administrator (no different than  linux).
i don't want to see any of that here again ever.
the real question is not how  many sps and/or patches are released per year, but how many vulnerabilities are  discovered per year.
what's stopping someone from automating the ssh flaw and distributing  it to script kiddies?
that is the worst and most exploited of all windows security sins.
now some drivers, video drivers, for example, have to access the  kernel, so i suppose it would be theoretically possible for a virus to install  a device driver which then accesses the kernel.
many solutions to system problems don't lend themselves to  logical deduction - they are single solution problems that are solved by  following microsoft kb articles.
then there's the other extreme who call all windows users idiots (see everything ever written on slashdot).
and although it's nice to be able to use perl on windows to drive com objects, i confess that i usually prototype my automation scripts in vbscript, and then port them to perl once they're working.
you can, however,  use linux user mode from within such a machine: http://www.gentoo.org/doc/en/uml.xml )
magnus wednesday, december 03, 2003 "last time a flaw was discovered in windows, it took me two clicks to patch it."
the patches for the programs are also  published very quickly (say usually in 24 hours after the discovery of teh bug)
anyway, anybody can quote numbers until the cows come home.
clearly *they* see some inadequacy, real or perceived.
since security is a hot topic, though, there will be all kinds of political arguments over the proper way to count :)
this was based  on the security issues and problems we had with another application that was  (and sadly is) completely tied to windows server/iis and sqlserver.)
and you don't even have to log out to do it.
it seems to me that at least part of the question over which os is more secure is unrelated to how secure or securable each os is.
so why do you  suppose they charge $149 to host a site on windows and only $129 for a similar  site on linux?
if you want something more sophisticated, there are tools like altiris.
but i take a long term view, and i realise that it's all a matter of personal preference.
correct me if i'm wrong (for i'm no win32  expert), but would not a user mode application install have full access to the  registry, able to wipe it clean if the app were malicious or poorly  designed?
no system can be  provabily secure.
and yes, i do realize that there are plenty of hackers trying to exploit linux, too.
what's stopping someone from automating the ssh flaw and distributing it to script kiddies?
glyph lefkowitz friday, november 07, 2003 cool, a joel-troll!
but i'm sure they've got that all worked out now.
use whatever you are happy with.m fw friday, november 07, 2003 "no system is secure when first installed.
even windows update patches require more  than two clicks, and then they usually require a reboot.
(*): let's don't forget, that when we refer to linux, we usually mean a distribution, which contains all the software you need to run a server (if you are luck enough - debian has more that 9000 software packages).
stephen jones saturday, november 08, 2003 portabella, unix programmers refuse to move to higher level languages because of stubbornness.
while win32 maintains a very robust kernel and chacl capability, the security  is almost universally overridden by the default installation of assining all  users as admin.
in fact, they are probably more tied to ms than any other oem.
beyond that, security on either system is obviously only as good as your patching habits.
the windows scripting host is a very powerful tool.
it's just very convenient to keep them all in one place.
if  however, you're running as admin, i can install a simple device driver which  allows me to map any physical page, read/write any device, and delete any  file.
", you will get answers that will include new vulnerabilities and new patches that emerged after your definition was completed.
philo philo friday, november 07, 2003 i've just been updating the laptop, as holiday time is coming up again.
" ok, perhaps i simplified ever so slightly.
"correct me if i'm wrong (for i'm no  win32 expert), but would not a user mode application install have full access  to the registry" the registry has security controls on it, just  like the filesystem.
fw friday, november 07, 2003 security is a topic where there are no saints.
the bottom line is that a user with admin privs can access kernel memory.
friday, november 07, 2003 actual counts of security issues and the severity of each issue is my empricial basis for stating that one system is more secure than another.
but i very much doubt that their efforts amount to even a small fraction of the efforts being devoted to hacking windows.
http://www.dellhost.com/dhproduct/overview.aspx?segment=dedicated&category=web&sku=d2800 why would they offer yet another platform to maintain at a *lower* cost?
if the admin is comfortable with the steps to patch the os then it's easy to maintain.
other services can be enabled, ftp server, http server, etc.  but the  install and config should be specific to a server dedicated to that purpose.
nobody will actually tell you why, but you will still get a million answers, and the most usable answer will probably be: don't ask!
at least until they start renting software out instead of selling it... keith sunday, november 16, 2003 security issues affect all, at one point more for one than other .. careful configuration and regular update and monitoring helps as seen in openhack challenge.
portabella i think you should divide the question into three: 1.
they represent thirty years of experience doing things with unix systems.
the badger wednesday, december 10, 2003 it does not take four hours of messing around with source to patch an ssh  vulnerability.
that is why i'm not running anything under windows at home.
complexity is the number one opponent to  security.
bear in mind that we are talking about home and soho  machines here; anything in a company will be on a domain and running in user  mode.
at the same time, you have to acquire the needed applcations separately for  windows, which means that probably you also have to look for the patches at  different websites.
now one  suggestion that's been made over and over again is "why not keep user  accounts running as regular users, and have it ask for the admin password when  they want to do something like install software?".
" gotta call bullshit here.
computer security is really the act of progressively  raising the bar to protect the system from compromise.
"there appears only one place for programs to be installed in windows: the  "/program files" directory.
running in user mode, or using the compatibility template if absolutely necessary, would stop some viruses from installing, but as has been said, in a corporate network everybody is normally running as a user with limited rights.
we also see people talking about how much the ms  patches have to fix, but this is merely because a) it can find everything that  needs to be fixed, all at once, and b) many require reboots, and most people  would probably not enjoy multiple reboots.
if you run as a user all your important files are going to be owned by that user, so a program could overwrite them anyway
we also  cannot establish it by using the severity of bugs.
the more secure of linux and windows would have to be linux, hands down -  if you've chosen an appropriate distribution of linux, and haven't decided to  install every single available software package.
can't be feaures--the linux site comes with mysql and the ms one doesn't have  any database at all, not even access.
on the other hand, perhaps i was trolled by a disciple of bill.
friday, november 07, 2003 actual counts of security issues and the severity of each issue is my  empricial basis for stating that one system is more secure than another.
true, from time to time a "cultural hack" is found, like the i love you letter
vb sript and jscript were not written with sysadmins in mind.
--oliver oliver hunt wednesday, november 12, 2003 come on people, haven't we learned by now that the least "secure"  os is the one with the latest hack or virus headline.
reading security advisories  makes you learn about your system.
i do my desktop computing on windows boxes.
however, beyond the initial installation, *no* upgrade (barring the use of new kernel features) should require re-installation or downtime.
what do i need for a dev machine on the intranet ?
i have made a lot of money with perl over the years.
know bcp and dmo is blazing fast for exports?
http://www.itbusiness.ca/index.asp?theaction=61&sid=53897 of  course, he forgets to mention that sometimes one patch breaks another, thus  adding another layer of difficulty to the question of whom do you trust and  when...
dustin alexander monday, november 10, 2003 two things: 1.
no system can be provabily secure.
as for automatic update services, i'd have to seriously question a sysadmin who allowed automatic updates on their server.
brian friday, november 07, 2003 >we cannot establish who's the "most secure" by using a  has-no-security bugs criteria.
however, in unix, /etc/ is fully protected from access by non-root access (which is all users 99% of the time - it takes a deliberate move to make yourself root).
i suppose you might have used a source distribution of openssh, but one would  have to wonder why if you don't apparently have the confidence (or possibly  skills) to administer such things.
" secue as in 100% secure is an unobtainable dream, but some default installs are more secure than others.
but that is not enough!
reading security advisories makes you learn about your system.
i have to wholeheartedly agree with those posting about security being in the hands of the admin.
but you  can't log in as system.
personally, i think linux is an excellent server platform that will continue to eat unix's lunch and continue to threaten windows' dominance.
mandrake now (since 9.1 at least) has security options  for installation.
tell me why here, and use the other topic for talking about what i  asked about.
if you want a really secure system, you're probably best off selecting either openbsd or one of the linux distributions that are working on security above all other considerations.
nat ersoz friday, november 07, 2003 >> linux default installation is not* secure.
we host the database on mysql on mac os x, while we host the frontend on windows.
i don't care how much you patch.
there is nothing in linux that makes it  inherently better (or inherently worse) than windows.
how many security updates have you had to  install on your windows servers vs. how many updates do you have to install on  other oses?
(*): let's don't forget, that when we refer to linux, we  usually mean a distribution, which contains all the software you need to run a  server (if you are luck enough - debian has more that 9000 software packages).
the question is: how do you make that  maintenance cost low?
first and foremost - kernels are hacked, not higher layers of  software.
windows is a very, very complex platform to administer - the simple interface masks a great deal of complexity, and creates the illusion of ease of use.
alyosha` friday, november 07, 2003 topical (cnet): an unknown intruder attempted to insert a trojan  horse program into the code of the next version of the linux kernel, stored at  a publicly accessible database ... only developers who used that database were  affected--and only during a 24-hour period, he added.
keeping it secure requires keeping the system up to date and watching what's going on, just like any other system.
(an aside: this reflects our usage of fogbugz.
as all it could probably do  would to to blue screen the machine i don't see the point.
historically, most attacks come months after the original patch is released, so if you can keep up to the patch schedule your risk is low enough.
once enabled, just being administrator is not sufficient to execute any program.
in a home environment, most user's run as  administrator, and rightly so.
i suppose you might have used a source distribution of openssh, but one would have to wonder why if you don't apparently have the confidence (or possibly skills) to administer such things.
the caveat is that the system can be  quite difficult to install initially, especially if you have esoteric  hardware.
if however, you're running as admin, i can install a simple device driver which allows me to map any physical page, read/write any device, and delete any file.
no matter how malicious the intent of a user mode app, if the os is secure and intact, the user mode app can only affect the user that installed the program and the file which he has access to.
i  use linux,  i use it on my two desktops and my router / webserver  etc.  for me,  there's no question that it's the most secure option  available.
osx does something similar.
some of this is because you have a lot of very experienced programmers with a massive investment in c. i don't have this same massive investment of ten to twenty years, but i have to confess that i keep making a heavier investment because i haven't found anything that offers me as much capability or flexibility.
so, my  claim here is more in the nature of an anti-claim: we cannot establish who's  the "most secure" by using a has-no-security bugs criteria.
the fact that it comes  from a unix design heritage (as opposed to the desktop single-user model that  windows has evolved from) leads to much better system administration tools and  practices.
some of this is because you have a  lot of very experienced programmers with a massive investment in c.  i  don't have this same massive investment of ten to twenty years, but i have to  confess that i keep making a heavier investment because i haven't found  anything that offers me as much capability or flexibility.
you are crazy if you open 1433 toward the  internet.
most of the mainstream distributions have had automatic updates for  years.
to the best of my knowledge you are dealing with a ring system.
>choose "paranoid", and (whilst humming the black sabbath tune) >install away.
philo friday, november 07, 2003 i've just been updating the laptop, as holiday time is coming up again.
as far as i can tell using linux should be the best option for an internet server.
if it takes you n hours to figure out how to get perl  to filter out malicious sql text out of dynamically created insert strings.
if the difference is only "that someone hasn't done  that yet", then the claim of better security is on pretty shaky ground.
but you can't log in as system.
however, in unix, /etc/ is fully  protected from access by non-root access (which is all users 99% of the time -  it takes a deliberate move to make yourself root).
realistically, once a week is about as much as anyone can keep up with.
and i'm not paying any windows taxes while doing so.
"on a corporate network, windows is hardly remotely adminstratable.
each type of system has it's place - use the one most appropriate for the particular problem you are facing.
a few minutes later i check progress to see that the link has sent me to an error message.
base your decisions on the facts at hand, rather than os religion.
how many security updates have you had to install on your windows servers vs. how many updates do you have to install on other oses?
windows is a very, very complex platform to administer -  the simple interface masks a great deal of complexity, and creates the illusion  of ease of use.
linux default installation is not*  secure.
they're very faithful--they have  rarely dealt with a non-ms os (partially because, unlike hp, compaq, and ibm,  they don't have their own in-house os) and they have not jumped onto the linux  bandwagon nearly as loudly as others.
complexity is the number one opponent to security.
admins can control this to very specific rights in just about any os i'm aware of.
but every time i release perl code to production, it scares the hell out of me (because perl syntax is so abstruse that it's hard to know what remaining bugs may lurk).
remember, linux is just a kernel, most problems they are counting are in the  userland, should i count one for windows if i make a c program that uses strcpy  for input and i can overflow the stack?
:-) wayne earl friday, november 07, 2003 just watching - yeah.
"building secure servers with linux" by michael d. bauer.
a user-mode  process under windows can't touch kernel memory, even if it is running as  administrator.
and i agree with a previous poster that a security bug  *count* is probably the best way of establishing the differences.
other services can be enabled, ftp server, http server, etc.
a user running as admin can install a device driver, and then access whatever they like through a user mode app which accesses the newly installed driver.
we also use mysql replication and it works very well.
i  abort the other installation and click on the other link which then starts the  11mb download, which it appears doesn't actually check if you have anything  that needs patching until you have downloaded the same patch.
there are many more windows systems out there than  there are linux systems.
personally,  i think linux is an  excellent server platform that will continue to eat unix's lunch and continue  to threaten windows' dominance.
maybe you  happen to know vbscript's regexp engine inside and out and happen to know how  to work around the issues better than you know perl's.
and  i'm not paying any windows taxes while doing so.
which is easiest to patch?
portabella friday, november 07, 2003 dell has no interest in taking sides in the os wars.
alyosha` friday, november 07, 2003 topical (cnet): an unknown intruder attempted to insert a trojan horse program into the code of the next version of the linux kernel, stored at a publicly accessible database ... only developers who used that database were affected--and only during a 24-hour period, he added.
for that very reason i've chosen openbsd to power my server.
brian friday, november 07, 2003 >we cannot establish who's the "most secure" by using a has-no-security bugs criteria.
>of  which distribution?
i  then go back, and read more carefully; for the fun of it i click on the link i  got the error message on before and this time it takes me to the right page.
the fundamental problem with windows security is that  users are accustomed to running administrator privs 100% of the time.
unfortunately most distros (i'm certain of rh 7 thru 8) deliver x with tcp port 6000 open.
they're very faithful--they have rarely dealt with a non-ms os (partially because, unlike hp, compaq, and ibm, they don't have their own in-house os) and they have not jumped onto the linux bandwagon nearly as loudly as others.
while theoretically possible, it is practically  not feasible, to remotely admin windows boxes.
if you are maintaining more than one or two computers, this  gets old very fast, especially since every patch needs to be researched and  tested to make sure it doesn't break mission-critical software x.   realistically, once a week is about as much as anyone can keep up with.
not all zealots read slashdot or use linux.
what should i use for an intranet server? 3.
steve friday, november 07, 2003 i think you missed the point.
somehow it's true, but i don't think it's a  very wise thing to do.
>mandrake now (since 9.1 at least) has security options for installation.
by default neither system is anymore or less secure, they each different approaches to security, which leads them open to different problems.
so why do you suppose they charge $149 to host a site on windows and only $129 for a similar site on linux?
what should i use for an internet server ?
if it takes you n hours to figure out how to get perl to filter out malicious sql text out of dynamically created insert strings.
so, my claim here is more in the nature of an anti-claim: we cannot establish who's the "most secure" by using a has-no-security bugs criteria.
but every time i release perl code to production, it scares the hell out  of me (because perl syntax is so abstruse that it's hard to know what remaining  bugs may lurk).
we host the database on mysql on mac os x, while we host the  frontend on windows.
(understandably, you may want to be present to observe this process.
i've gotta side with the folks that say security depends on the quality of the admin.
they represent thirty years of experience doing  things with unix systems.
myron a. semack saturday, november 08, 2003 as someone who's used unix shells extensively, my perspective is that the  most important thing about the shell is that it's 1.
being vulnerable for a week is not the end of the world - and applying a patch  that's going to break things is much worse.
linux default installation is not* secure.
if you want a really secure system, you're probably best off  selecting either openbsd or one of the linux distributions that are working on  security above all other considerations.
the religious flame war about system security is kind of funny to watch though.
wsh gives you an amazing amount of flexibility.
certainly, bash is a stripped down language for automating common tasks, but that is what it was designed for.
i *feel* that my linux setup is more secure than a standard windows setup, but the reverse would probably be true of an experienced windows user...
i have been using the same installed image continuously for  almost 5 years now, and i've twice duplicated the system by copying the drive  onto another machine and tweaking a few system settings, then upgrading or  installing new packages.
at the same time, you have to acquire the needed applcations separately for windows, which means that probably you also have to look for the patches at different websites.
to download the msde security patch i first of all have to go from windows update to office update, then install everything else, reboot, and then go to windows update and office update as well.
the openhack iii was successfully protected by argus pitbull, even after  hackers gaining root access.
and you find this acceptable?
2) i've not really used windows in a  'hostile' environment.
you certainly shouldn't run as administrator with a dsl or cable connection -
nat ersoz sunday, november 09, 2003 not sure it's that clear.
remember, linux is just a kernel, most problems they are counting are in the userland, should i count one for windows if i make a c program that uses strcpy for input and i can overflow the stack?
can you find someone to make time to read a good book on isa server/checkpoint and a good book on windows internals?
on the other hand in windows i would merely have had to click share connection and enable firewall and i'd have a moderately secure set up.
with debian, the announced security holes are fixed typically in a few (usually  1) day after the patch is available.
choose "paranoid", and (whilst humming the   black sabbath tune) install away.
laszlo marai friday, november 07, 2003 oh, and one more thing - i don't want to convince you about using debian,  or linux, where i was trying to get at is that you might have had a hard time  with linux, because you didn't use the right tool/distribution and yopu  shouldn't judge based on those experiences.
windows is not an option.
this no doubt  explains why both of us have hundreds more posts than most other frequent  posters :) stephen jones friday, november 07, 2003 >security hotfixes are generally available within a week of the  announcement of the vulnerability, and *obtaining* and installing a hotfix for  windows is five mouse clicks (i just counted - did an update while typing).
that being said, linux is  more capable of being secured - it's configuration is less opaque and kernel  and user space are better segmented from each other.
is linux more secure than windows?
kernel mode is ring 0 and user mode is ring 3.
bear in mind that we are talking about home and soho machines here; anything in a company will be on a domain and running in user mode.
wednesday is patch day at microsoft, and there are  new "critical" security patches to apply every week, along with many  others.
i upgrade regularly (using only "emerge sync" and "emerge system" or "emerge world" every other day, or if there's a patch that needs installing).
it seems to me that at least part of the  question over which os is more secure is unrelated to how secure or securable  each os is.
it's their computer, and they can do  whatever they want.
lennart fridén friday, november 07, 2003 i'm thinking about this transaction log shipping thing.
you can have ports off, and kernels patched and users rights allowing them to do nothing but run text editors, and still someone will find a way to do something they shouldn't be doing.
but i take a long term view, and i  realise that it's all a matter of personal preference.
they're also very monogomous; note that they're the only major oem that has *never* shipped an amd system.
additionally, installing any software, not just user mode software becomes a priv'd task in windows.
somehow it's true, but i don't think it's a very wise thing to do.
as for automatic update  services, i'd have to seriously question a sysadmin who allowed automatic  updates on their server.
there is no differentiation between a user installing a pure user mode application and a device driver
beyond that, security on either system is obviously only as good as your  patching habits.
less is truely more in my case.
before i discovered  wsh, i though there was no real scripting solution for windows (without a third  party).
i'd rather be on a different system (even if slightly less secure) where there isn't as much efforts being devoted to hacking my system.
(an aside: this reflects our  usage of fogbugz.
if the software is backed by simple 90s stack (webservermajor languagedatabaseos) then i suppose going with you are competent with.
buy "real world linux security".
martin a. boegelund friday, november 07, 2003 probably depends on the software you are trying to deploy.
but there is insight into the process, there is peer-review, and you can study the code (as if i would) if you want to.
> linux default installation is not* secure.
debian's update system is automatic, free,  reliable, fast, and (if you use the "stable" distribution) designed  *specifically* for administrators who don't want to spend a lot of time messing  around with running systems.
there are  tools like sms and sus for remote administration.
not in any kind of corporate environment, anyway.
i upgrade regularly (using  only "emerge sync" and "emerge system" or "emerge  world" every other day, or if there's a patch that needs installing).
i believe this is the only rationale that will convince you that system ____ is more secure than windows.
and perl makes any scripting language commonly  available on windows appear laughable.
i think the only os that can be called "inherently more secure" is openbsd, and it accomplishes that by sacrificing a lot of functionality, which diminishes the surface of attack.
(up until  last time i checked; don't know if they're doing or will do any opteron stuff.)
are you ready to dig into registry and reorder tdi drivers?
yes, windows can be  maintained by remote gui desktops - but again, it goes one at a time.
you will have to define what windows is, and what linux is.
shlomi fish sunday, november 09, 2003 i'm not quite with you on this nat.
it's quicker that way.
but most of the time the high level hacks, the ones which do actual damage are kernel level hacks (offcourse you can always argue that by not securing the kernel this becomes a user land problem but that would require all different apps to try and stop the same malicious source, which is stupid).
now compare that with windows: you download the  patch for a certain application for the website of the vendor(*) using a  browser, then you click on the icon, then a gui starts, then you click  'next>>' a few times, and in the end you most probably have to restart  (or not).
ms would never make the  same mistake twice.
so, linux (or other open source maintained distributions like openbsd) is the way to go, it has plenty of virtues (open source, good community, fast response, good track record, don't undermine the user).
there are tools like sms and sus for remote administration.
clearly *they* see  some inadequacy, real or perceived.
in  practice, however, i have never seen a security update fail.)
(up until last time i checked; don't know if they're doing or will do any opteron stuff.)
the unix analogy is the /etc/ directory  (much maligned by windows devs/users).
bullet-proof it's *not* very high-level, but "glorified batch file" is manifestly wrong.
many solutions to system problems don't lend themselves to logical deduction - they are single solution problems that are solved by following microsoft kb articles.
the installation is also quite easy with debian - two commands issued on the command line.
each type of system has it's place - use the one most appropriate for the  particular problem you are facing.
it's their computer, and they can do whatever they want.
can you find someone to make time to read a good book on isa  server/checkpoint and a good book on windows internals?
li-fan chen friday, november 07, 2003 look, userland and kernel are different.
not in any kind of corporate  environment, anyway.
bill gates latest "we don't supply  firewalls, for that you will need to buy a firewall software" remark is  bad, it is bad because it shows the utter lack of understanding of the nature  of a hack.
now one suggestion that's been made over and over again is "why not keep user accounts running as regular users, and have it ask for the admin password when they want to do something like install software?".
there is nothing comparable in windows to the flexibiltiy of the command line in unix; by combining commands you can do pretty well everything, and there are more than thirty years of collected commands to play with.
i admit that most of the times  you have to do nothing, but anyway...
at least until  they start renting software out instead of selling it... keith security issues affect all, at one point more for one than other .. careful configuration and regular update and monitoring helps as seen in  openhack challenge.
using the system accounts, it's possible.
portabella sunday, november 09, 2003
this means that on the avarage you'll have a patch in 2-4  days after a bug has been announced.
in fact, you can totally automate the  installation of security patches.
what should i use for an intranet  server? 3.
debian comes by default configured to install security updates, so if you tell a "stable" machine to "apt-get update && apt-get upgrade" on a nightly basis, it will get any new security updates and install them while you sleep.
it seems to be the case that more hackers  write viruses/worms/etc. to attack windows systems than to attack linux  systems.
you can hardly fault sed for not allowing access to the networking stack.
you're just asking for trouble.
"there appears only one place for programs to be installed in windows: the "/program files" directory.
and although it's nice to be able to use perl on windows to  drive com objects, i confess that i usually prototype my automation scripts in  vbscript, and then port them to perl once they're working.
so no matter how malicous or poorly designed the program, if the os integrity is intact, then no user mode application can corrupt /etc/.
perl is much more intelligent and moving from bash to perl has a learning curve of less than an hour.
note: not all ports are open, only the ones which were opted for (mostly).
can't be feaures--the linux site comes with mysql and the ms one doesn't have any database at all, not even access.
whichever os you like, but update it centrally from time  to time and *don't* let anyone from within your intranet computers use internet  access (this is not a joke, look at what happened to valve.
laszlo marai friday, november 07, 2003 laszlo, i'd recommend you not speak of that which you don't understand.
yes,  linux (and some of the other free *nix dialects) are also developed by big  groups of people.
if the administrator is on-the-ball, you're os is as secure  as it can be... ...until the next hack or virus comes out, that is.
christopher baus (www.baus.net) friday, november 07, 2003 just a note about debian security updates: glyph, you say you can totally automate security updates.
the only reference you need to lock linux up tight.
bash is about running small, linkable applications to get specific tasks done.
joel spolsky friday, november 07, 2003 os-religion issues aside, as someone who worked as a sysadmin for close to 10 years, and works with both linux and windows servers on a daily basis, i would say that neither is more secure than the other, "out of the box".
it's not just a glorified batch file (ala unix shells).
*but*  this is  *only* because: 1) i've used linux for a long time and am familiar  with updating and hardening it.
if linux is as secure/securable or more secure/securable than  windows, that simply tilts the decision even more in favor of linux.
you can probably delete any file without touching  the kernel, since admin normally owns the whole machine.
if the kernel is secure (see "good netfilter/iptables config" pseudo entry in any faq)
last time a flaw was discovered in openssh, red hat network carried a  fix and up2date had it patched within minutes of me ticking the box.
the heart of unix security and win32 security exists in the fact that kernel space can only be accessed by root or administrator authorization.
bourne shell lacks both structures and arrays.
in fact, they are  probably more tied to ms than any other oem.
i do think your example is a bit specious.
trevor b saturday, november 15, 2003 when comparing linux with windows as a secure server, you shouldn't use a desktop distribution of linux such as mandrake or redhat as the point of comparison on the linux side.
stephen jones saturday, november 08, 2003 have you actually used wsh?
before i discovered wsh, i though there was no real scripting solution for windows (without a third party).
after half  an hour i check to find that the button called install has taken me to a page  which tells me i'm on the wrong ms site and has a link to another sql page.
we delayed our fogbugz purchase for at least 6 months,  because of the reliance of windows/iis as the host for fogbugz.
stephen jones sunday, november 09, 2003 > unix programmers refuse to move to higher level languages because of stubbornness.
" secue as in  100% secure is an unobtainable dream, but some default installs are more secure  than others.
the heart of unix security and win32 security exists in  the fact that kernel space can only be accessed by root or administrator  authorization.
joel: if you want to administer a linux server without having to mess around with the usual garbage associated with re-compiling and re-installing system services, might i recommend http://www.debian.org/ ?
in the end, though, i don't even think the reason matters.
note: not all ports are open, only the ones which were opted for  (mostly).
and there's still the question of windows  file protection.
admin privs are  compromised  when users run as admin as a matter of fact.
anyone using debian security  updates should read the dsas (debian security advisories) before upgrading, for  at least two reasons: 1) you could find valuable information about  the upgrade, as things to do before/after it.
i see most arguments of linux vs windows as being pointless (eg.
there is much more  harm it can do in rewriting the registry or the file system or whatever.
while theoretically possible, it is practically not feasible, to remotely admin windows boxes.
the problem with this approach is that it gets  users comfortable with the idea of entering their administrator password  whenever something asks for it.
the only reference you need to  lock linux up tight.
i think some of us here are too quick to make fun of wayne.
i don't know whether this is because there are many more windows systems (and so more havoc for the hacker to wreak) or because the windows systems are made by microsoft (and more hackers are ms haters).
i'm not a linux  guru, but using the documentation available, and the wonderful gentoo  http://www.gentoo.org  distribution, i can keep my system (on 24/7, on  adsl) up and running and at least fairly secure.
my experience is that linux is more securable than windows.
if the shell isn't sufficient you can  always use perl or python (or other languages) and generally the api  integration is very good.
ms would never make the same mistake twice.
evgeny gesin /javadesk/
it's not  just a glorified batch file (ala unix shells).
> >of which distribution?
as all it could probably do would to to blue screen the machine i don't see the point.
bill gates latest "we don't supply firewalls, for that you will need to buy a firewall software" remark is bad, it is bad because it shows the utter lack of understanding of the nature of a hack.
stuff i  can do in 2 seconds in any high-level development language is tedious and  difficult in shell.
myron a. semack friday, november 07, 2003 nat, "the heart of unix security and win32 security exists in the fact that kernel space can only be accessed by root or administrator authorization.
i've only dabbled in wsh, but i must ask why microsoft is coming up with *yet another shell* in the longhorn push.
we also cannot establish it by using the  severity of bugs.
(at least, not the default install of them...)
osx does  something similar.
if you are maintaining more than one or two computers, this gets old very fast, especially since every patch needs to be researched and tested to make sure it doesn't break mission-critical software x.
http://news.com.com/2100-7355_3-5103670.html?tag=nefd_top 3 paragraphs of fanboyism without a single fact to  back up a word he says?
" obviously  not a windows admin.
this is a "usability enhancement" which allows users to install  any/all programs without performnig the pesky task of swithing from "my  account" to admin, over and over, when you want to install software.
i have been on (and led) project teams that built enterprise server  applications in perl.
so in my opinion, it really  depends on where your competence rest.
insightful on slashdot maybe.
with debian, the announced security holes are fixed typically in a few (usually 1) day after the patch is available.
you can simply  use runas, which works like sudo does under linux.
of all these, the fundamental problem of windows security is that all users run  as admin all of the time.
you certainly shouldn't run as administrator with a dsl or cable  connection -
so in my opinion, it really depends on where your competence rest.
and this because the usability of windows has not  followed the same clean design as the kernel was given.
you can  hardly fault sed for not allowing access to the networking stack.
i go back, down the page, and start to install the full sql .exe.
in joel's case, if he has to personally admin the system, then windows is almost always the correct choice, simply because of his level of expertise with the platform.
and perl makes any scripting language commonly available on windows appear laughable.
this no doubt explains why both of us have hundreds more posts than most other frequent posters :) stephen jones friday, november 07, 2003 >security hotfixes are generally available within a week of the announcement of the vulnerability, and *obtaining* and installing a hotfix for windows is five mouse clicks (i just counted - did an update while typing).
security is a topic where there are no saints.
the fact that it comes from a unix design heritage (as opposed to the desktop single-user model that windows has evolved from) leads to much better system administration tools and practices.
yep,  just like you philo, i install ms security patches while typing.
having said  all that,  microsoft's shoddy client software has ruined email, i'm sick  to death of those damned 400k virus attachments filling up my mailbox.
this topic is a preemptive haven for people whose immediate reaction when asked how to build a reliable windows server is "use linux."
in a home environment, most user's run as administrator, and rightly so.
of which distribution?
same in linux, same in windows.
its not, and should be disabled - especially when you're on the road, connecting to non-firewall protected networks.
we delayed our fogbugz purchase for at least 6 months, because of the reliance of windows/iis as the host for fogbugz.
should also be turned off when running in the open.
willie abrams friday, november 07, 2003 port state service 22/tcp open ssh 139/tcp open netbios-ssn 6000/tcp open x11 fyi: a typical redhat 8.0 distro after a default install, with no hardening.
since  security is a hot topic, though, there will be all kinds of political arguments  over the proper way to count :)
as a unix programmer who avoids python at all costs myself, i can sympathize.
to do this in kernel mode you would presumably have to write an alternative
kernel mode is ring 0 and user mode is ring  3.
under linux, i can raise the bar higher, making compromise  much more difficult, in less time, with less effort, and less cost than under  windows.
base your decisions on the facts at hand,  rather than os religion.
i  *feel* that my linux setup is more secure than a standard windows setup, but  the reverse would probably be true of an experienced windows user...
security is an ever moving target, and no operating system is secure if the os hasn't been patched properly, or if passwords aren't protected properly.
joel: if you want to administer a linux server  without having to mess around with the usual garbage associated with  re-compiling and re-installing system services, might i recommend http://www.debian.org/ ?
you mix that with the project limitations and you should get something figured out.
makes one wonder a - if it has ever been done before (if so it hasn't been detected) b - if something similar has ever been done to windows (you'll never find out) friday, november 07, 2003 personally, i prefer linux, but i think that any admin worth their salt will tell you the same thing about security: you have to keep up with patches or your system will be compromised.
stuff i can do in 2 seconds in any high-level development language is tedious and difficult in shell.
it's only a matter of time beofre someone makes an application that looks just like the "enter admin password" dialog, and then you'd have a whole new class of security breaches.
meanwhile in this time there  have been a dozen updates to a dozen different programs in a generic linux  system.
to the best of my knowledge  you are dealing with a ring system.
correct me if i'm wrong (for i'm no win32 expert), but would not a user mode application install have full access to the registry, able to wipe it clean if the app were malicious or poorly designed?
oh, and windows or more popular, and thus a more "profitable" target for any hackers/script kiddies out there.
for this reason alone, linux is much more securable than windows.
the  netbios port was intentionally turned on (samba to allow for smb sharing),but
but the install and config should be specific to a server dedicated to that purpose.
even if  windows is slightly more secure or securable (on a technical level) than linux,  the number of hackers writing exploits of windows security weaknesses makes me  think i'd be more secure on linux.
check out: http://cwashington.netreach.net/  and look at the automated stuff that's possible.
** hmm... *scratches head* ** and don't go on about ms-sql vs. mysql; i think we can all agree that any database (even the lowly mysql, which powers slashdot's ~2 million hits/day) is better than no database at all.
stephen jones sunday, november 09, 2003 stephen, even though a device driver may not access the kernel,  there is nothing to prevent a driver from accessing the kernel.
i think shell is used with a kind of "less  is more" attitude.
the netbios port was intentionally turned on (samba to allow for smb sharing),but should also be turned off when running in the open.
if you buy windows, whatever version, you put your trust in a huge corporation, with internal conflicts and decisions taken for political reasons, or to please stockholders, instead of for technical reasons.
it seems to be the case that more hackers write viruses/worms/etc. to attack windows systems than to attack linux systems.
if you run as a user all your important files are going to be  owned by that user, so a program could overwrite them anyway
with windows, you always rely on microsoft to provide the update, while on linux you have a choice to circumvent the vendor, and install the package from the source before it is available from the vendor.
myron a. semack friday, november 07, 2003 nat, "the heart of unix security and win32 security exists  in the fact that kernel space can only be accessed by root or administrator  authorization.
the fundamental problem with windows security is that users are accustomed to running administrator privs 100% of the time.
portabella saturday, november 08, 2003 wsh lets you use vb script or jscript.
laszlo marai friday, november 07, 2003 oh, and one more thing - i don't want to convince you about using debian, or linux, where i was trying to get at is that you might have had a hard time with linux, because you didn't use the right tool/distribution and yopu shouldn't judge based on those experiences.
even my favorite server os, openbsd, can get hacked from time to time.
so, linux (or  other open source maintained distributions like openbsd) is the way to go, it  has plenty of virtues (open source, good community, fast response, good track
you can use gpo's to  manage the registry of client machines (inlcuding grabbing updates from a  network).
wsh gives you an amazing  amount of flexibility.
tell me why here, and use the other topic for talking about what i asked about.
and the  answers are: 1.
it's not just that there are  hundreds of pages of them; it's the fact that you can combine them to pretty  well do anything you want.
but then again, remmember that  using linux requires lots of hours learning, tweaking and understanding what  you are doing while with windows its all point and click (you can never know  what this point and clicks end you up with, but thats good old ms)
it's no differen than the /bin and /usr/bin directories in unix.
why realplayer and quicktime can "steal" the file  associations at will?
also, windows is fully scriptable, just like unix.
ssh is the only  exposed port which should be allowed open when running outside a firewall.
i have been on (and led) project teams that built enterprise server applications in perl.
it probably takes the same 15 minutes to translate  the regex, but can you determine for sure the behavior of your perl's regex in  the face of other (like ones that forces your regex engine to hang itself  parsing forever) attacks?
nat ersoz friday, november 07, 2003 to preface my comment, i should say that i don't really have much technical  knowledge of security issues in linux and windows.
clutch cargo friday, november 07, 2003 security is a process, not a product.
that i can believe..... >
you can use gpo's to manage the registry of client machines (inlcuding grabbing updates from a network).
ok, default installation of redhat gives some basic firewall rules: close* all ports, open some* ports, open all* ports.
they're also very monogomous; note that  they're the only major oem that has *never* shipped an amd system.
oh, and windows or more popular, and thus a more  "profitable" target for any hackers/script kiddies out there.
if everybody was to count the number of problems on anything that ran windows, that would be different.
that the install isa breeze and comes with almost everything i need and nothing more than that (no, not 1005 pointless image viewers, not 567 text editors, not 382 window managers, and not 47 implementations of ping) is a huge plus as far as i'm concerned.
choose "paranoid", and (whilst humming the black sabbath tune) install away.
and that is good (at least, from a security point of view).
jeff carroll tuesday, november 11, 2003 i agree with jeff, admittedly most of my experience is in configuring linux(this carefully drings me round to my point): i had very little difficulty configuring the gateway in my flat to be fairly secure.
the unix admin maintains cron jobs on his users'  computers which poll for updates and install when necessary.
i mean a  server which supports a decent web server (apache), a nice db (oracle, mysql  etc.) , perl etc.
computer security is really the act of progressively raising the bar to protect the system from compromise.
this is a tough call, using  windows server in an intranet is pretty nice and fluent as long as you don't  try the wacky stuff (workgroup + domains + iis + apache + ms directory + other  file sharing techniques), installing linux requires knowledge but read point 3  and you'll see linux is your only option anyway... 3.
and the development of the linux kernel is not done for profit, nor driven by stockholder expectations.
"last  time a flaw was discovered in ssh, it took me four hours of compiling and  messing around to patch it."
http://www.siliconvalley.com/mld/siliconvalley/business/columnists/gmsv/5049501.htm?template=contentmodules/printstory.jsp
a base installation of debian,  for example, simple won't contain x or the numerous security-hole-prone  services that are installed by default in windows and the  "recommended" installations of some of the desktop distributions of  linux.
not so when you are admin, you can easily and unknowingly destory the entire system.
there are various links on that page and i click on the likely one.
as for what users can access in their os, it again falls in the hands of the admin.
" obviously not a windows admin.
security is a process, not a product.
if the shell isn't sufficient you can always use perl or python (or other languages) and generally the api integration is very good.
i do my desktop  computing on windows boxes.
so the short answer to "(why) is linux more secure than linux" is: don't ask!
fw friday, november 07, 2003 vulnerable even fw friday, november 07, 2003
they aren't interested in making a point about os superiority, they just want to make as much as they can from whatever product they sell.
depends on which os the admin is  familiar with, doesn't it?  if the admin is comfortable with the steps to  patch the os then it's easy to maintain.
the problem with this approach is that it gets users comfortable with the idea of entering their administrator password whenever something asks for it.
so no matter how  malicous or poorly designed the program, if the os integrity is intact, then no  user mode application can corrupt /etc/.  system setting remain  consistent, and can only be changed by root.
joel spolsky friday, november 07, 2003 os-religion issues aside, as someone who worked as a sysadmin for close to  10 years, and works with both linux and windows servers on a daily basis, i  would say that neither is more secure than the other, "out of the  box".
and yes, i do realize that there are plenty of hackers trying to exploit linux,  too.
vb sript and jscript were not written with sysadmins  in mind.
i don't care  how much you patch.
there appears only  one place for programs to be installed in windows: the "/program  files" directory.
nat ersoz >> linux default installation is not* secure.
my post was to state that in my opinion, linux is more "securable" (that is: better able to be secured) then windows, not that it is more "secure" i base my opinion on my own professional experience of administering significant numbers of systems of both oses.
using  the system accounts, it's possible.
i'd like to address you to excellent book "building secure servers with linux" by michael d. bauer.
to download the msde security patch i first of  all have to go from windows update to office update, then install everything  else, reboot, and then go to windows update and office update as well.
there appears only one place for programs to be installed in windows: the "/program files" directory.
and what problem you are trying to  solve.
mandrake now (since 9.1 at least) has security options for installation.
portabella friday, november 07, 2003 i think you should divide the question into three: 1.
"is linux more secure than windows?" is a nonsensical question.
this is a tough call, using windows server in an intranet is pretty nice and fluent as long as you don't try the wacky stuff (workgroup + domains + iis + apache + ms directory + other file sharing techniques), installing linux requires knowledge but read point 3 and you'll see linux is your only option anyway... 3.
true, from time  to time a "cultural hack" is found, like the i love you letter
meanwhile in this time there have been a dozen updates to a dozen different programs in a generic linux system.
the patches for the programs are also published very quickly (say usually in 24 hours after the discovery of teh bug) by the developers.
, don't undermine the user).
i'm not a linux guru, but using the documentation available, and the wonderful gentoo http://www.gentoo.org distribution, i can keep my system (on 24/7, on adsl) up and running and at least fairly secure.
i've gotta side with the folks that say security depends on the  quality of the admin.
but it takes you 15 minutes to figure the same thing out in vb.net..
is your staff know linux shell and development tools?
those immediately after blaster, et al) with hoards of linux evangelists using it as an example of poor windows security, even though ms had a patch out before the incident...
as an added bonus, i won't show up in the process list when a user hits ctrl-altdel for the taskman.
and the answers are: 1.
myron a. semack friday, november 07, 2003 i don't think that 'more secure' is even a question you can answer.
although there may be no known holes in xfree at the moment, x is too huge (and i consider myself rather knowledgeable about x's low level and internals) to be certain that leaving the tcp port open is a good idea.
this means that on the avarage you'll have a patch in 2-4 days after a bug has been announced.
you are crazy if you open 1433 toward the internet.
both are great and i've seen whole applications written in jscript, but i think you have little idea about how powerful unix shell commands are.
on a  corporate network, windows is hardly remotely adminstratable.
but  most of the time the high level hacks, the ones which do actual damage are  kernel level hacks (offcourse you can always argue that by not securing the  kernel this becomes a user land problem but that would require all different  apps to try and stop the same malicious source, which is stupid).
i have to confess that i keep making a heavier investment because i haven't found anything that offers me as much capability or flexibility.
now copmare that with windows: 2-3 sp/year?
i think shell is used with a kind of "less is more" attitude.
the same concept is now part of windows 2003 and xp professional under software permissions policy.
our experience is this: we have two server plaforms in our company that are similar to your situation; sqlserver on windows 2000 server and mysql on mac os x server.
yes, windows can be maintained by remote gui desktops - but again, it goes one at a time.
an admirer of openbsd's security audits but uses windows?
they aren't interested in making a point about os superiority, they just want  to make as much as they can from whatever product they sell.
"the fundamental problem of windows security is that all users run as admin all of the time.
most of the mainstream distributions have had automatic updates for years.
even my favorite server os, openbsd, can get hacked  from time to time.
any system is only as  secure as the admin.
the bottom  line is that a user with admin privs can access kernel memory.
and there's still the question of windows file protection.
and yes, i'm working for a  quite large (high-tech) corporation, smaller than microsoft.
portabella friday, november 07, 2003 "now copmare that with windows: 2-3 sp/year?
then  there's the other extreme who call all windows users idiots (see everything  ever written on slashdot).
"correct me if i'm wrong (for i'm no win32 expert), but would not a user mode application install have full access to the registry" the registry has security controls on it, just like the filesystem.
the question is: how do you make that maintenance cost low?
as a unix programmer who avoids python  at all costs myself, i can sympathize.
these systems are in a constant flow of change and highly configurable, and it only takes 1 "insecurity" to make the system as a whole vulnerable, so when you finally finish defining what you mean by "windows" and by "linux" and ask the "why..?
how  do you do that with postgres?
i think some of us here are too quick to make fun of  wayne.
clay dowling saturday, november 08, 2003 "gotta call bullshit here.
it's no differen than the /bin and /usr/bin  directories in unix.
i have been using the same installed image continuously for almost 5 years now, and i've twice duplicated the system by copying the drive onto another machine and tweaking a few system settings, then upgrading or installing new packages.
windows hotfixes come out every few weeks.
that being said, linux is more capable of being secured - it's configuration is less opaque and kernel and user space are better segmented from each other.
unix, out of the box, provides a well defined multiuser environment which provides a well defined context with respect to who can install device drivers, who can change permissions, and who has access to what.
it just doesn't matter what os you've got.
the  windows scripting host is a very powerful tool.
this is a "usability enhancement" which allows users to install any/all programs without performnig the pesky task of swithing from "my account" to admin, over and over, when you want to install software.
i have made a lot of money with perl  over the years.
unix, out of the box, provides a well defined multiuser  environment which provides a well defined context with respect to who can  install device drivers, who can change permissions, and who has access to  what.
sometimes you have to restart some service linking to an updated library, or you have to check something.
a user running as  admin can install a device driver, and then access whatever they like through a  user mode app which accesses the newly installed driver.
of course, if you've got  expertise with windows and don't know (or want to know) how to do things the  unix way, then you might be better off sticking with windows.
>mandrake now (since 9.1 at least) has security  options for installation.
we could argue the neither setup is very secure (i'm not a network guru)...
i abort the other installation and click on the other link which then starts the 11mb download, which it appears doesn't actually check if you have anything that needs patching until you have downloaded the same patch.
the unix admin maintains cron jobs on his users' computers which poll for updates and install when necessary.
what do i need  for a dev machine on the intranet ?
you know the windows admin, because he carries cd's and floppies around from desk to desk, installing or upgrading software.
and the development  of the linux kernel is not done for profit, nor driven by stockholder  expectations.
it's no  competition.
now copmare that with windows:  2-3 sp/year?
last time a flaw was discovered in openssh, red hat network carried a fix and up2date had it patched within minutes of me ticking the box.
maybe you happen to know vbscript's regexp engine inside and out and happen to know how to work around the issues better than you know perl's.
i then go back, and read more carefully; for the fun of it i click on the link i got the error message on before and this time it takes me to the right page.
admin privs are compromised when users run as admin as a matter of fact.
it's just very convenient to keep  them all in one place.
how do you do that  properly with asp.net and iis6?
with windows, you always rely on microsoft to provide the update,  while on linux you have a choice to circumvent the vendor, and install the  package from the source before it is available from the vendor.
it probably takes the same 15 minutes to translate the regex, but can you determine for sure the behavior of your perl's regex in the face of other (like ones that forces your regex engine to hang itself parsing forever) attacks?
unfortunately most distros (i'm certain of rh 7 thru  8) deliver x with tcp port 6000 open.
a practice which has been useful and honed over decades of use.
you will have to  define what windows is, and what linux is.
if everybody was to count the  number of problems on anything that ran windows, that would be different.
i'd like to address you to excellent book
and i agree with a previous poster that a security bug *count* is probably the best way of establishing the differences.
magnus wednesday, december 03, 2003 "last time a flaw was discovered in windows, it took me two clicks to  patch it."
it just doesn't matter what os  you've got.
ssh is the only exposed port which should be allowed open when running outside a firewall.
certainly, bash is a stripped down language  for automating common tasks, but that is what it was designed for.