i believe most of them were conceived for one of two reasons: 1) some bunch of reasonably curious and capable people thot it would be an interesting and beneficial pastime 2) politics within the community wrt what the platform "is about" anyway, glad you weren't upset by my last screed i'm perhaps in a minority of linux users in believing that it will bebad for it in the long run to "popularize" itself too much.
so  thank the universe for gnu/linux!
originally posted by epy
don't care for it though.
and like i said, one of those two works on every linux system.
last edited by mk27; 05-18-2010 at 07:00 pm.
the guys who don't like linux come with things like "linux is less compatible."
since when did redhat cost money?
almost certainly, because only people who really wanted to work as performing musicians would stick it out.
i find it amazing you forget the idiot proof point and click gui for every microsoft program.
i get that i could get more use out of a linux machine.
in reality, it's those things that have made the platform the success  that it is.
but there is absolutely no standard for those things and no guarantee that an uninstall works.
openoffice.org - the free and open productivity suite pidgin, the universal chat client scintilla and scite virtualbox vlc media player - open source multimedia framework and player you just don't get it.
this is not to say that there are no  problems.
they haven't really jumped any boats.
this is a discussion on pclinuxos - best linux desktop ever within thegeneral discussions forums, part of the community boards category; originally posted by lpaulgib i find it amazing you forget the idiot proof point and click gui for every microsoft ...
c programming resources: gnu c function and macro index -- glibc reference manual the c book -- nice online learner guide current iso draft standard ccan -- new cpan like open source library repository 3 (different) gnu debugger tutorials: #1 -- #2 -- #3 cpwiki -- our wiki on sourceforge originally posted by mk27
now if some of you people like windows, thats great.
consider that "linux" of course refers to the kernel and  the history of linux kernel development is unprecedented.
if i bought it without knowing whether or not it was supported on linux, then i have to eat it.
originally posted by lpaulgib since when did redhat cost money?
i think it already has a robust and sustainable user base and that people will continue to be attracted to it in the future just like they were in the past.
but the issues there have very little to do with ease of use desktop-y issues, and which distro does what how.
i laugh and my first thought is to the animal farm; human nature, being what it is.
every other program i need is cross-platform: 7-zip audacity: free audio editor and recorder evolution firefox browser | free ways to customize your internet octave mp3 diags mp3tag - the universal tag editor (id3v2, mp4, ogg, flac, ...)
what a load of crap, mk.
originally posted  bykermit i think i can agree with you on some of this.
would the quality of music (not it's stock market value) in general be better?
if i want to be sure it is supported i buy stuff that i know works.
or maybe the "incompatible" talk refers to hardware - like wifi and such.
my new ipod is great!
this is not to say that there are no problems.
still a no go - if the vendor of the hardware makes no driver for linux, whose fault is it that it won't run?
then you get no support, of course, which might be hassle if you are running a commercial server and cannot afford me (actually you could probably afford me, but get the picture).
i have no desire to think when it comes to checking fark and cracked after work.
i think you could always give red hat money for support, which is what they are selling now.
that is funny - i would bet money that linux runs on more systems than windows does.
these are the things that i need that are windows specific: active@ hard disk monitor.
consider that "linux" of course refers to the kernel and the history of linux kernel development is unprecedented.
mk, i'm in college, working full time, and married with a 2 year old.
dumbass viscous circle.
i would think it's a problem of linux having too many different distros.
it's for  businesses, servers, that kind of stuff.
especially if you are working over a network via ssh, in which case you get no gui.
for those who are happy without it, that's great.
and i'd be nuts to think i'd be doing them a favor by recommending they switch to linux.
sometimes the term "libre" is used because i believe in the romance languages there are two words for "free", with slightly different connotations.
realize i'm not talking about a programmer's needs.
originally posted by brewbuck: reimplementing a large system in another language to get a 25% performance boost is nonsense.
if you say that there is software thatwon't run on linux thatwill run on windows, fine - i will give you that, but really, is that a fault of linux?
there is no need to try and pitch it or attract even more people.
like i said, there are no shareholders who will  benefit, it's not a stock you can purchase, so achieving a greater market share  is just a macho goal.
as i watch all of you talk about the ease of doing command line installs....
you'd be better off doing sudoku on the couch.
yeah, i can still install multiple programs at the terminal with one line while you go and download and install all of the applications separately.
linux is not fast food, and it is not a commercial product.
sittin' on the dock of the bay posts 8,176 originally posted by lpaulgib i  really do get it.
also, the point was that most linux distros have preinstalled free fully functional office programs/suites (be it ooo or gnumeric + abiword, or whatever else), not chopped down trial versions.
such is the case with my computers at this time.
i'm talking about 90% of america.
if i were running a server or anything requiring real work, i'd go with linux.
c programming resources: gnu c function and macro index -- glibc reference manual the c book -- nice online learner guide current iso draft standard ccan -- new cpan like open source library repository 3 (different) gnu debugger tutorials: #1 -- #2 -- #3 cpwiki -- our wiki on sourceforge originally posted by lpaulgib insert generic anti-linux banter here first off, abiword and staroffice came out before openoffice did, so you're wrong there.
if only someone had the gumption and foresight to foresee what pure greed would do to "the entertainment industry", we'd probably be living in a much more interesting world.
i know of it because it was the only program that ran word documents on linux at the time.
as an aside, i am kind of glad some things are not compatible with linux.
linux does a horrible job of selling itself.
the idea that it has to be sold or promoted to people is just silly.
good thing only one file is needed then, an .exe or an .msi, you have fun with you dependencies then ;-) how i need a drink, alcoholic in nature, after the heavy lectures involving quantum mechanics.
originally posted by lpaulgib i bet you guys couldn't even agree on a distro if i asked you which one was best.
so often people are encouraged to switch to linux (when windows worked fine for them) - they try it and, after a bad experience, they not only turn away, but have scorn for it too.
they forked into fedora, which is more or less the same thing, and kept the brandname for redhat, which the money you pay is for support.
originally posted by neo1 good thing only one file is needed then, an .exe or an .msi, you have fun with you dependencies then ;-) which are automatically installed from the repositories as well?
this is what "not free as in beer means".
sven bader – design & software 2brightsparks | syncbackse unlocker 1.8.9 by cedrick 'nitch' collomb these are the things i need that are linux specific:
looks like they  jumped the boat.
- using the gnu gdb debugger: tutorial with examples and exercises - sys-sizes all this linux talk got me looking around...
maybe you have heard of the obesity problem and the steady decline in educational performance?
yet another inoculated linux hater.
i ran redhat all through high school on my desktop.
it would be very hard  to make all that money if you actually had towork for it.
that's not what america wants though.
almost  certainly, because only people who really wanted to work as performing  musicians would stick it out.
-jake http://thatcadguy.blogspot.com/ originally posted by lpaulgib
part of the purpose of distro package management is to correct such errors by individual developers.
burning an iso off a pre-installed windows to undo what has been done for them makes no sense.
it's a pain in the ass to hunt down a good distro, burn the iso's, lose everything i already have.....only to gain something that isn't as compatable, has less support, and doesn't really do anything that i need to do.
keep doing that and they just might conform, like good consumers it's a pain in the ass to hunt down a good distro, burn the iso's, i suppose it was easier to earn the $1000 bucks you paid for the computer so that you can treat it as another opportunity to turn your brain off because you are too tired to think from earning the money you need to buy all these toys and tools that make your life "easier".
i can install linux on any machine, run my little installation script and tweak the power settings and that's it.
i have no problem with that, but don't go bashing linux guys because it is the cool thing to be anti-linux.
i absolutely love my consumer crap.
i have friends who have windows computers at home and the whole family uses them and such
or is that not "cool" enough for you?
the goal nothing has whether or not a distro wants to charge money.
redhat is still (by necessity) all gpl licensed software, so there is nothing illegal about "pirating" it.
it would be cheaper to just get a computer which is 25% faster.
and notice -- this os is free.
last edited by mk27; 05-18-2010 at 03:37 pm.
it is a fairly unique phenomenon in this sense.
this knowledge typically presents a steep learning curve and for those who don't care to learn what it takes, it is an insurmountable obstacle.
i think the problems you think might be corrected by attending to such a goal are not really problems with the system, they are just because you are new to it.
the distro's also keep track of security risks and other problems -- they are contributing a very significant oversight layer.
that's part of the point.
you're a programmer: youshould do that.
redhat is still (by necessity) all gpl licensed software, so there is nothing  illegal about "pirating" it.
alternative philosophies.
i just want to click a giant logo and see entertaining stuff.
i don't get mad if i buy something with hardware that does not work on linux.
then, subsequent to all that, you can use the standard interface offered the package manager (by which i mean, yum or apt) to query stuff like what files a package installed, where they are located, etc. yum: repoquery --list package apt: dpkg-query -l package ba-boom, done.
i figure if someone wants to learn all the little things it takes to get a linux system up an running, they will, they will stick with it, and they will get there under their own steam.
would fewer musicians  become multi-millionaires for little or no reason?
last edited by mk27; 05-18-2010 at 12:10 pm.
someone earlier mentioned the office suite i think.
so thank the universe for gnu/linux!
also it's a great way to understand the fundamental elements of the system.
most things that you need are already there.
smart diagnostic & hdd health control software for windows xp vista 2003 server 2008...
openoffice.org... works on windows too you know.
so you have skipped a few steps that have to occur before you get to the apparently easy point and click, which you can save yourself all that trouble with one quick powerful command.
has it got anything to do at all with linux being a crappy os?
i believe most of them were conceived for one of two  reasons: 1) some bunch of reasonably curious and capable people thot it  would be an interesting and beneficial pastime 2) politics within the  community wrt what the platform "is about" anyway, glad you  weren't upset by my last screed i'm perhaps in a minority of linux users in  believing that it will bebad for it in the long run to  "popularize" itself too much.
i've said this here before a few  times.
then you get no support, of course,  which might be hassle if you are running a commercial server and cannot afford  me (actually you could probably afford me, but get the picture).
it would be very hard to make all that money if you actually had towork for it.
i think the problems you think might be  corrected by attending to such a goal are not really problems with the system,  they are just because you are new to it.
that's totally  permissible.
i have a name for these types of people - yailh:
as an analogy, think what would happen if musicians had  to actually perform instead of just collecting royalties, because all their  recorded material was freely reproducible under law.
windows 7 came with my pc.
i don't think "what america wants" deserves any kind of attention at all unlessyou are out to make money feeding animals deep fried cheese.
i mean seriously, if there was some app that only ran on apple computers, would you bash windows because it couldn't run it?
i bet you guys couldn't even agree on a distro if i asked you which one was best.
i've yet to see how it's that bad for  most people.
i  actually wouldn't recommend linux to anyone.
how i need a drink, alcoholic in nature, after the heavy lectures involving quantum mechanics.
originally posted by lpaulgib i would think it's a problem of linux having too many different distros.
i'm not just spouting linux hate.
i have friends who have windows computers at home and the whole family  uses them and such and i'd be nuts to think i'd be doing them a favor by  recommending they switch to linux.
would fewer musicians become multi-millionaires for little or no reason?
like i said, there are no shareholders who will benefit, it's not a stock you can purchase, so achieving a greater market share is just a macho goal.
it's usually only 3 or 4 mouse clicks and it's done.
i actually wouldn't recommend linux to anyone.
the jail here afaict has to do withintellectual property laws, which gnu is dead set against particularly as it has come to be applied to software.
i've said this here before a few times.
if a software company codes something that works on windows, and does not give support for linux, whose fault is it if it does not work on linux?
ccleaner - optimization and cleaning - free download utilfr clavier+
take your marketeer savviness to kfc and point/click at the big shiny board over the counter.
i just think it's unfair to paint windows in this light like  it's the most junk thing in the world.
[...] i'm talking about 90% of america.
you will thank yourself for it later.
so free as in "out of jail" and not necessarily "cost $0".
recently gnu and the fsf have dropped the term "open source" and gone with the more specific "free software".
i think it already has a robust and  sustainable user base and that people will continue to be attracted to it in  the future just like they were in the past.
i think i can agree with you on some of this.
like i said before, the distro's are 99% identical once you  understand the system.
as dumb as they want to be?
-jake http://thatcadguy.blogspot.com/ originally posted by epy which are automatically installed from the repositories as well?
it's like the nerds version of a mac.
c programming resources: gnu c function and macro index -- glibc reference manual the c book -- nice online learner guide current iso draft standard ccan -- new cpan like open source library repository 3 (different) gnu debugger tutorials: #1 -- #2 -- #3 cpwiki -- our wiki on sourceforge originally posted by lpaulgib
anyway, i consider this: apt-cache search some_package apt-get install package easier than: - finding a website - downloading a package - playing with some wonky gui interface that may be different each time.
i've used it, and understand it.
the  goal nothing has whether or not a distro wants to charge money.
-jake http://thatcadguy.blogspot.com/ originally posted by epy
that's totally permissible.
and i would love to see linux get in the game and take up a good  portion of the market and have the right resources easily at my disposal.
recently gnu and the fsf have dropped  the term "open source" and gone with the more specific "free  software".
america is the birthplace of disposable crap and purile consumerist drivel of the worst sort.
no money to make here!
10.6.1 defraggler - file and disk defragmentation - free download the official imgburn website pdfill pdf editor with free pdf writer and free pdf tools - www.pdfill.com tracker software products :: pdf-xchange viewer peerblock â peerblock site recuva - undelete, unerase, file and disk recovery - free download [den4b] denis kozlov software – sweet dreams |
- using the gnu gdb debugger: tutorial with examples and exercises - sys-sizes originally posted by lpaulgib i really do get it.
this is what  "not free as in beer means".
sometimes the term "libre" is used because i believe  in the romance languages there are two words for "free", with  slightly different connotations.
take it or leave it, but please -- there is no "marketing budget" andi hope there never is.
i bought an hp computer with windows 7, and i am sick and tired of the nagware put on there by hp and norton (again, this is not the fault of microsoft - at least not directly) that i actually hate booting into windows.
they  forked into fedora, which is more or less the same thing, and kept the  brandname for redhat, which the money you pay is for support.
fedora branched off and basically became free red hat.
the only reason i use windows is to run dragon naturally speaking - now that nuance makes a dictation product for macs, i see no reason to keep a windows install around at all.
would the  quality of music (not it's stock market value) in general be better?
seriously: learn to love the command line.
stimulus-response is not a sound foundation on which to orient the design of a computer operating system.
i've yet to see how it's that bad for most people.
audacious - an advanced audio player gtk-gnutella - the graphical unix gnutella client iplist winehq - run windows applications on linux, bsd, solaris and mac os x (only for mp3tag)
- using the gnu gdb debugger: tutorial with examples and exercises - sys-sizes originally posted by kermit
the jail here afaict has to do withintellectual property laws, which gnu  is dead set against particularly as it has come to be applied to software.
if only someone had the gumption and  foresight to foresee what pure greed would do to "the entertainment  industry", we'd probably be living in a much more interesting world.
if you say that there is software thatwon't run on linux that will run on windows, fine - i will give you that, but really, is that a fault of linux?
so i don't recommend it.
i bet you guys couldn't even agree on a distro if i asked you which one  was best.
there's so much more to tweak and so much more time and effort required with a fresh install of windows.
like i said before, the distro's are 99% identical once you understand the system.
it's for businesses, servers, that kind of stuff.
anyway, i wouldn't assume about all that, you are just repeating bland cliches about what users "want".
i just think it's unfair to paint windows in this light like it's the most junk thing in the world.
originally posted bykermit
instead of being the most snobby, it's who's the most geeky.
windows comes pre-installed on most pcs, is geared towards the masses, and is available.
in reality, it's those things that have made the platform the success that it is.
now i will grant that things are a lot better these days, (i even know a 60+ year old lady who got ubuntu working for herself) but there is still a lot to know to make the linux experience pleasant.
quiet technologies... that make some noise.
but the issues there  have very little to do with ease of use desktop-y issues, and which distro does  what how.
well, i might recommend it to someone in particular, but in general, no  way.
and i would love to see linux get in the game and take up a good portion of the market and have the right resources easily at my disposal.
well, i might recommend it to someone in particular, but in general, no way.
you're a programmer, that tish shouldn't scare you.
one of them is where we getliberated.
as an analogy, think what would happen if musicians had to actually perform instead of just collecting royalties, because all their recorded material was freely reproducible under law.
the desktop is just a side show.
this is one aspect of what makes linux great, imo.
originally posted by lpaulgib i find it amazing you forget the idiot proof point and click gui for every microsoft program.
"""oooh you can command line multiple downloads""" ""oooh you can look at nothing but text on bash and uninstall things more thoroughly""".
who installs multiple programs on a daily basis?
there is no need to try and pitch  it or attract even more people.
looks like they jumped the boat.
not that it is bad, but it is not windows.