it’s not uncommon for the linux systems  to go over a year in between reboots.
then, following  a brief foray in os/2, i quickly gravitated to running linux at home so i could  once again have a real multi-tasking working environment.
i try my best to learn how to best use the security features of each os i use, naturally.
this is all changing for the better, but it took microsoft far too long to adopt this default-secure configuration practice.
before i get into my rationale, though, just a little more background is in  order.
then, following a brief foray in os/2, i quickly gravitated to running linux at home so i could once again have a real multi-tasking working environment.
i started using a unix desktop way back in college and was always  comfortable there.
i started using a unix desktop way back in college and was always comfortable there.
esecurityplanet >  columnists > linux vs. windows: which is most secure?
so we decided to take another look at the topic.
at my first couple of jobs after college, i mostly used unix workstations from dec and sun as my primary desktops.
in particular, the notion of an administrative (root) user that maintains and operates the system, and desktop users who only run the software on the system, is completely ingrained in most linux distributions.
the system defaults to protecting the operating system  components from its user’s actions (intentional or otherwise).
this is all changing for the better, but it  took microsoft far too long to adopt this default-secure configuration practice.
to complete that trifecta, i guess its only fair to compare the end-user data security aspects of windows against linux.
and the winner is? december 01, 2011 network security wireless security mobile security browser security windows security open source security mac os security hackers malware how-tos buying guides news trends columnists patches ebooks white papers about esecurity planet terms of service licensing & permissions privacy policy advertise sitemap enterprise networking planet datamation small business computing serverwatch internetnews copyright 2011 quinstreet inc.
that feature alone must account in large degree for the dearth of viruses and other malicious vermin on linux and unix platforms.
to complete that trifecta, i guess  it’s only fair to compare the end-user data security aspects of windows  against linux.
at my first couple of jobs after college, i mostly used unix  workstations from dec and sun as my primary desktops.
i started down this path by comparing how secure i am on a mac vs. on  windows, then i compared mac vs. linux.
im more secure on linux than i am on windows.
i was constantly frustrated by the frequent reboots, lack of  serious security capabilities (from my perspective), and such.
but, i still run a debian linux infrastructure for my company, with a  couple samba servers at its core.
however, i consider myself very open-minded and will always give credit where its due.
by kenneth van wyk   |   march 16, 2007 share editor's note: a lot has changed since this article was written so we  decided to take another look at the topic.
login | register | newsletter close share editor's note: a lot has changed since this article was written
i’m more secure on linux than i am on windows.
check out the new article, is linux really more secure than windows?, to see what the findings are ... you might be surprised (or not).
before i get into my rationale, though, just a little more background is in order.
now its true that many linux users ignore these features and run all their software from a root-level account anyway, but thats a choice that theyve made.
the system defaults to protecting the operating system components from its users actions (intentional or otherwise).
by roy mark march 15, 2007 u.s. authorities charge hackers in india and malaysia with cracking u.s online brokerage accounts.
although that’s no longer the case, the  general attitude can still be found in many windows-based software products  – many of which just can’t be installed and/or run properly without  desktop administrator privileges.
and, i still use xp on another laptop  from time to time, generally when a customer requires it or i absolutely must  run something like activex controls on a web site.
but my point here is that linux does follow the security features and capabilities it inherited from unix quite closely.
a point by point comparison of the two oses, with a subjective conclusion  as to which offers better security.
so, with that background in mind, it’s clear my views are somewhat  biased.
i was constantly frustrated by the frequent reboots, lack of serious security capabilities (from my perspective), and such.
qualitative score: windows gets a d+ while linux gets an a-.
it’s tough to be entirely fair  here, since windows isn’t unix in any sense.
heck, some of my best friends use windows (but i do my  best to talk them into os x anyway).
although thats no longer the case, the general attitude can still be found in many windows-based software products many of which just cant be installed and/or run properly without desktop administrator privileges.
later, i started using windows-based systems at the office, but never felt quite at home.
in particular, the notion of an administrative (root) user that  maintains and operates the system, and desktop users who only run the software  on the system, is completely ingrained in most linux distributions.
i started down this path by comparing how secure i am on a mac vs. on windows, then i compared mac vs. linux.
windows, on the other hand, started life as a single user system, with that  single user being all-powerful.
linux vs. windows: which is most secure?
but my point here is that  linux does follow the security features and capabilities it inherited from unix  quite closely.
i’ve ever owned, without any doubt.
later, i started using windows-based systems at the office, but never felt  quite at home.
i try my best to learn how  to best use the security features of each os i use, naturally.
i have no doubt whatsoever that i am.
read article vikings best, polynesians worst in domain safety by andy patrizio | march 14, 2007 review: panda cloud office protection january 31, 2012 evaluating the security of sliced data storage in the cloud december 13, 2011 hiring hackers and buying malware is easy december 02, 2011 ios vs. android security:
however, i consider myself very open-minded and will always give credit  where it’s due.
check out the new article, is linux really more secure than windows?, to see what the findings  are ...
but, i still run a debian linux infrastructure for my company, with a couple samba servers at its core.
now it’s true that many linux users ignore these features and run all  their software from a root-level account anyway, but that’s a choice that  they’ve made.
that  feature alone must account in large degree for the dearth of viruses and other  malicious vermin on linux and unix platforms.
its not uncommon for the linux systems to go over a year in between reboots.
plus: some thoughts on apple security.
and, i still use xp on another laptop from time to time, generally when a customer requires it or i absolutely must run something like activex controls on a web site.
nowadays, my primary desktop is on a macbook pro – the best computer
you might be surprised (or not).
heck, some of my best friends use windows (but i do my best to talk them into os x anyway).
windows, on the other hand, started life as a single user system, with that single user being all-powerful.
its tough to be entirely fair here, since windows isnt unix in any sense.
nowadays, my primary desktop is on a macbook pro the best computer ive ever owned, without any doubt.
so, with that background in mind, its clear my views are somewhat biased.