if you don’t have an iso burner, place the.iso  onto your usb flash drive.
by emma rosenberg this article will detail how to dual boot windows 7 and the latest ubuntu distribution on a single computer using two hard drives.
the last step of the process is to add ubuntu as an entry in the windows boot menu.
reprint rights statement: this article is free for republishing by visitors  provided the author bio box is retained as usual so that all links are  active/linkable with no syntax changes.
as for the second partition, it will be used for /, or the root file system directory.
the two operating systems serve different purposes.
if you are using microsoft’s sharepoint services like some of the  sharepoint features found in frontpage 2003, a windows hosting plan is your  only choice.
go through the initial steps per its instructions until you get to the “installation type” page.
by choosing a linux hosting plan, you will find  yourself in good company.
the menace of viruses, spamming and hacking is also quite less with linux  hosting.
linux web hosting or windows 2000 web hosting ?
the process of uploading and hosting is almost same for both linux  and windows web servers.
price: you can get a copy of genuine unix free of cost, whereas you have to buy windows os.
on the other side, for unix it is not  required, as it is more secure than windows.
initialize your  second hard disk by selecting it and then click on the button, new partition  table.
this  make the difference between the price, unix hosting will always be cheaper than  a windows one.
with such a total dominance, microsoft windows is top of mind to most new people looking for web hosting.
knowing this, how can you know when you need windows hosting and  when linux hosting will work just as well or better?
select the  linux/bsd, and select grub2 from the type menu.
you do not need to know any real detail of either to make a decision as to which you need but here a few guidelines.
website hosting: if you want to use mysql as backend  then go for unix.
scalability: scalability and future expansion are other major criteria to  consider while hosting an application.
however, they can make difference depending on your preference for a certain language.
a website hosted on a linux operating system will have very high up-time.
you need to consider your requirements both short-term and long-term and the features of windows and unix before choosing the os.
whether it is for personal use or for office use, choosing the os platform is  the vital part history of unix chart (click for larger) of long-term plan, as it can’t be changed often.
note  that if you select “front page extensions”; during web site design,  you must enable front page extensions on a linux web server also.
technologies you  will have to choose a windows hosting plan.
and it supports some tools that unix cannot run.
however, if you need to use microsoft technologies such as access or ms sql  databases, or asp or vbscript scripting languages, you should opt for a windows  host.
disadvantage:- linux based web server is not fully compatible with microsoft technologies.
windows plans usually cost more because of the license costs imposed by  microsoft.
free linux help, tips & tricks!
low cost of ownership:- linux os comes free of cost.
advantages of using linux based server compared to windows based web server:- 1.stable:- linux operating system is very stable and robust.
supported hardware devices: unix supports less hardware devices than windows.
this is only required if you are uploading  using http feature (http://www.yourwebsite.com) of front page.
the second step is to acquire the latest ubuntu  distribution and then transfer it onto either a dvd, cd, or usb drive.
use  coupon code “1cent” tags: host, hosting, linux  hosting, vs, windows linux hosting is better than windows hosting friday, december 16th,  2011 |linux hosting |
no comments by evlondo cooper there are many website creators who want to compare linux hosting in order  to see how it measures up with other operating systems.
search tags apache bash beginner boot bsd cli command console damn debian dsl español filesystems fluxbox foss games gnome gnu host hosting how-to kde  linux linux hosting live cd ls man mint mysql partition php ps3 recovery script  security server shell small terminal ubuntu unix vs windows wireless xfce meta
having such a system can be useful for anyone trying to create an ubuntu dedicated server on a windows 7 system.
stability: unix handles high server loads than windows; unix systems rarely require a reboot, windows constantly need them.
perhaps more importantly, windows-based servers can easily be managed and multiplexed by using .net technology.
windows-based web hosts windows-based servers use programs such as microsoft access and ms sql for “back-end” operations.
the second difference between linux and windows hosting is that they support different programming languages.
run the os without installing it: unix can be run with  live cd even without installing it.
this article was written by joe duchesne, president of http://www.yowling.com/, a web hosting company that offers linux hosting plans.
the operating  system you use on your desktop has little to do with your choice of web hosts.
well in most of the cases, the general inclination generally moves towards the linux web hosting platform and not on the window web hosting, because there are several positive factor that affect linux and that linux carries with itself.
today, linux based web hosting is most widely used compared to windows based web hosting.
find out more at http://www.hostingreport.org hostgator hosting sale ends soon!tags: host, hosting, linux, os, unix, vs, windows which operating system is more functional – windows or unix (linux)?
yet, most people agree that linux is better at issuing updates and patches because their system is open source.
with the cost savings usually found with linux hosting plans, linux hosting is  usually the right choice for you.
use  coupon code “1cent” tags: host, hosting, linux  hosting, vs, windows windows hosting versus linux hosting – which is right for you?
everyday windows is losing costumers to unix hosting and the web hosts are exploring this fact offering daily new promotions and unix plans.
the default disk space is optimal, so just leave the option as is and press add.
the  database languages are also dissimilar, with windows users favoring access  while linux users prefer mysql.
this is what will ultimately help determine the  type of web hosting that will work best for you.
usually, a web site starts with a few pages of  html and grows over a period of time to suit the customer’s requirements.
instead, you should be trying to create a website with high quality content.
a web site designed to be hosted on a linux based web server can be hosted on a windows web server easily, where as the reverse is not always true.
aalpha net (http://www.aalphanet.com) – is india’s leading domain name registration, web hosting service provider.
these differences will be of no concern to many people.
it will cost a bit more but you’ll get that back in reduced development time and simply better functionality.
this is only required if you are uploading using http feature (http://www.yourwebsite.com) of front page.
the first step is already assumed, so if you have not installed windows 7,  do so.
you  will only need windows hosting if you’re going to develop in asp, .net or  vb.
there will be three options:  install ubuntu alongside windows 7, replace windows 7 with ubuntu, and  “something else”.
hostgator hosting sale ends soon!
by default these servers are installed  in text mode, the system uses fewer resources and dedicates all its power to  the webpages hosted.
once  the hard drive has been initialized, you will create a partition on it made for  ubuntu.
this is only required if you are uploading using http feature of front page on your website.
as  a quick review of thesteps we will be going through, here are the steps in  their simplest form.
tuesday, december 20th, 2011 |linux hosting |
secondly, due to many cost effective softwares available for protection on  linux platform.
a web site housed on a linux operating system will have  very high up-time (of the order of 99.9%).
plesk is a web based interface to your linux web hosting account that allows you to create e-mail addresses and mailboxes, view your web site traffic statistics, set permissions on your html, php pages, mysql, and more.
windows servers can provide very good uptime as well, but to do so the web  hosting company has to be proficient with microsoft systems.
once these steps are done, you will have a computer that can boot both windows 7 from one drive, and ubuntu from the other, and freely alternative between the two.
but what is important is that you know what you want your website to do and what you want to offer on it.
for microsoft specific technologies, windows hosting plans are usually your  best bet.
supports perl, cgi-bin, php3, shells, mysql, postgressql, ms frontpage extensions and much much more.
multi-user system: windows os is designed to be used by one person at a time, whereas multiple persons can share unix os at a time in a network.
price: you can get a copy of genuine unix free of  cost, whereas you have to buy windows os.
once that is completed, boot the computer from either the dvd, cd, or usb drive, depending on which option you chose.
also, it  has full fledged server, and desk top applications that comes free along with  the os.
so which is the right choice?
the average person looking to create a website relies on the network administrator for security.
unix and windows operating systems are the two main types of operating  system platforms on which you may host your website.
now, in this period of cross-system  web hosting, the differences in the operating systems are relatively small.
one of the most important characteristics of unix-based servers is that  they can handle a large amount of traffic.
today, linux based web hosting is most widely used compared to windows  based web hosting.
mostly, this assumption is correct.
in this article i  will show you the advantages of each one and a short comparison between them.
these days,  all linux web servers are coming with installable front page extensions, and  this should pose no problem for hosting on a linux platform.
access databases are only available with a windows hosting plan.
of course, other  factors such as power supply, network admin skills, and network load etc. also  matter when it comes to maintaining the system uptime.
price: any server hosting a website require a operating system and licenses,  windows 2003 and applications like sql server costs a lot of money, on the  other hand, unix, usually linux, is free to download, use and operate.
the reason there is often a higher cost associated with windows servers is  because the software they are based on costs the hosting company money.
use  coupon code “1cent” tags: host, hosting, linux  hosting, vs, windows windows vs linux :
linux server administration and linux server management has been more effective  for complex websites, where as windows servers are used for sites which needs  different configuration.
as for the second partition, it  will be used for /, or the root file system directory.
2nd, 2012 |learn linux - linux help | 1 comment
the last of the options, “something else”, should be selected, and click continue.
microsoft windows server and redhat linux are just two examples and probably  the most well known web hosting platforms.
usually, both offer ftp access to the files.
windows web hosting gives a company the capability of designing web sites using the ever-popular windows operating system.
yet,  linux is the only one that offers telnet or ssh access.
well, that’s just the answer isn’t it?
each has its own set of unique features, advantages and disadvantages.
hardware compatibility: unix can run on different hardware platforms but windows can’t.
if apps are  microsoft-specific, then windows is what you need.
therefore the above mentioned points proves that linux web hosting maintain  a much better position than window web hosting on the server platform.
if you are using any specialized applications or vb for development of your web site, it is preferable to host with a windows based web server.
while casting our views on linux hosting we conclude that linux is more  reliable.
the same rule applies if you had developed  your website with ms frontpage, usually unix systems have frontpage extensions  installed.
besides, reliability, cost effectiveness is also one of the most favorable factors that make linux first choice.
this allows development using  technologies such as active server pages (asp), com, and the newer.
if you design and program a website under a unix server you can easily host  it in a windows server, but the reverse is not always possible, avoiding  windows languages (asp, asp.net, etc) and databases (access and ms sql) is the  better choice.
insightful and honest opinions on issues related to various topics  including small businesses, economy,international information, health,  financial advices, technology tips and home improvement.
the following are the advantages of using linux based web server compared to windows based web server: stable and robust: linux/unix operating systems has traditionally been believed to be very stable and robust.
instead, choose  the master boot record in disk number 2, where ubuntu is installed.
this article was written by joe duchesne, president of  http://www.yowling.com/, a web hosting company that offers linux hosting plans.
many of these companies offer both windows hosting and linux hosting plans.
if you want to use a windows based tool such as front page  for uploading a web site on to a linux based web server, make sure that the  front page extensions are enabled.
once that is completed, boot the computer from either the dvd, cd, or usb  drive, depending on which option you chose.
no comments by john lenaghan windows or unix/linux – which operating system should you choose for  your web hosting?
he can be  contacted atravi@sakshay.net or you may visit [http://www.articlesworld.com] hostgator hosting sale – 1st month for 1 penny!
in general, linux hosting plans are at least 20% cheaper than windows  hosting plans.
we  have to access the windows boot configuration data (bcd), which can be done  using quality freeware programs such as easybcd.
in order to accomplish this, alter the “device of boot loader installation” from sda to sdb.
placing user data: unix stores all user data in the  home directory making it much easier to migrate from an old computer to new one.
performance: under low-stress conditions, both have similar performance.
if you’re considering a unix host and using  frontpage, make sure they offer “frontpage extensions” support.
the following are the advantages of using linux based web server compared  to windows based web server : stable: linux/unix operating systems has traditionally been believed to be  very stable and robust.
also, it has full fledged server, and desk top applications that comes free along with the os.
ability to run without gui: unix can run without graphical user interface so it needs less hardware horsepower than windows.
unix is a robust operating system and can easily handle hosting multiple websites on a single server.
consider the tools and scripting languages you plan to use  – if you use php, perl or mysql, linux is the way forward.
having such a system can be useful for anyone  trying to create an ubuntu dedicated server on a windows 7 system.
user friendly: when it comes to web hosting, it is easy to host on linux  web servers.
and it supports some tools that  unix cannot run.
linux server administration and linux server management has been more effective for complex websites, where as windows servers are used for sites which needs different configuration.
usually, a web  site starts with a few pages of html and grows over a period of time to suit  the customers requirements.
if you have a website built with microsoft .net
front page also  makes it possible to upload a web site using ftp.
copyright 2004 yowling.
whether it is for personal use or for office use, choosing the os platform is the vital part history of unix chart (click for larger) of long-term plan, as it can’t be changed often.
we will begin on the second step, which is acquiring the latest ubuntu  distribution and then putting the downloaded image onto a dvd, cd, or usb flash  drive.
windows web hosting gives a company the capability of designing web sites  using the ever-popular windows operating system.
for microsoft specific technologies, windows hosting plans are usually your best bet.
basically it means that you can host web sites that  use different types of server side scripts including .cgi, .pl, .php, and .asp
scalability: scalability and future expansion are other major criteria to consider while hosting an application.
insightful and honest opinions on issues related to various topics including small businesses, economy,international information, health, financial advices, technology tips and home improvement.
it is preferable to design a web site keeping these requirements in mind.
no comments by luis carvalho this simple question is every day made by many web design newbie’s
make two partitions for / and swap.
most widely used: linux/unix based web hosting is most widely used compared to windows based web hosting.
the above article can be re-printed as long as the bio lines stay in place.
if you need mssql as backend then windows os is a better option.
you need to consider  your requirements both short-term and long-term and the features of windows and  unix before choosing the os.
these are considered to be the best os for web server.
what is the advantage to choosing linux hosting?
commonly, the following extensions are supported: .cgi, .html, .htm, .pl, .php, .shtml, .xml, and others.
about the author teeyes siva heads the sales operations @ aalpha net.
as long as you understand how to use your ftp or web publishing software, your can use either operating system.
now let’s make a unix hosting overview: nowadays most of the web designers are choosing unix servers to host their  websites.
instead, choose the master boot record in disk number 2, where ubuntu is installed.
easy to move between hosts :
php runs better on a linux server than on a windows server.
unix/linux-based web hosts unix and linux are two different operating systems, but because they work  essentially the same way, we’ll consider them as one for the purposes of  this article.
in regards to security concerns, the common wisdom states that windows  has a variety of security concerns that make it more unstable.
first a short and very important  advantage: the price, the web host companies usually use free editions of unix  systems like linux red hat, linux fedora core or even freebsd operating system,  this fact lower the final price for the costumer because the web hosts  don’t have to pay for the server operating system.
a lot of webmasters choose unix over windows because of the server uptime.
no comments by joe duchesne there are literally hundreds of thousands of web hosting companies out  there.
keep reading to find out.
the operating system you use on your desktop has little to do with your choice of web hosts.
the last  step of the process is to add ubuntu as an entry in the windows boot menu.
and  why are the web designers choosing unix plans?
but what is important is that you know what you want your website to do and  what you want to offer on it.
on the other hand, windows stores data anywhere in the hard disk making it hard to backup files when switching to a new computer.
the virtually free distribution of php, mysql, perl has reduced the costs of the website hosting tremendously on linux server.
hosting saturday, december 17th, 2011 | linux  hosting |
if you have any question or comment, please contact me at mailto:luis@besttopwebhost.com.
windows operating systems are found on something like 95% of all personal computers in the world.
if everything is correct, exit out of  easybcd.
saturday, december 10th, 2011 |linux hosting |
it’s typically found to be the  most reliable, stable and efficient system and, as such, it’s commonly  used for the demanding environment of web and mail servers.
linux, apache, mysql and php are being used together to provide the infrastructure behind some of the most traffic intensive sites on the internet.
do not install it here.
as a quick review of thesteps we will be going through, here are the steps in their simplest form.
besides, reliability, cost effectiveness is also one of the most favorable  factors that make linux first choice.
while windows is targeted to the mass public, linux is more focused toward the features that programmers want.
everyday windows is losing costumers to unix hosting and the web  hosts are exploring this fact offering daily new promotions and unix plans.
author richa sinha is working for website design india.
unix can run stable much time than a  windows server and unix up-time is bigger.
the use of internet as a medium for integrating business across the globe with the help of web based software applications has produced wide range of web based technologies like asp, asp.net, jsp, php, and others.
a web site designed to be hosted on a linux based web server  can be hosted on a windows web server easily but this is not possible with the  window web hosting.
in regards to security concerns, the common wisdom states that windows has a variety of security concerns that make it more unstable.
if you need an enterprise class database there are some alternatives that run on a linux platform but if you need microsoft’s mssql database, a windows hosting plan will have to be your choice.
most modern systems have a built iso burner, so proceed to burn ubuntu onto the dvd/cd.
aalpha net (http://www.aalphanet.com)  – is india’s leading domain name registration, web hosting service  provider.
you can use almost all types of file extensions (or scripts) when using  linux web server.
all the unix operating  systems are under the gnu license, this means that anyone can access the source  code and modify it, very important to optimize the server and resolve any  problem or security issue, unix systems are the most flexible and stable.
front page also makes it possible  to upload a web site using ftp.
when do you have to use windows hosting?
in the past, there were  major differences between the linux and windows hosting platforms.
by brochure-ware i mean a site that offers the kind of information that in the past might have been provided on paper in the form of brochures, newsletters or data sheets.
scripting is also handled by microsoft  technologies such as asp (active server pages) and vbscript.
most modern systems have a built iso burner, so proceed to burn  ubuntu onto the dvd/cd.
the following are the some of the important features and properties of the two operating systems that will help you to understand them better.
it is preferable to design a web site keeping this requirements  in mind.
just because you use a windows desktop pc doesn’t mean you have to opt for windows web hosting (and the reverse is true as well).
go to the easybcd website and  to the downloads section, and select the “download free for limited,  non-commercial use.”
low cost of ownership: the linux os comes free of cost (or at very  insignificant cost, usually cost of distribution).
of course, other factors such as  power supply, network admin skills, and network load etc. also matter when it  comes to maintaining the system uptime.
perhaps more importantly, windows-based servers can easily be managed and  multiplexed by using .net technology.
for everthing else, linux hosting plans will usually do quite well.
following the installation, the computer will boot to windows 7.
you can use almost  all types of file extensions (or scripts) when using linux web server.
if your site, like most web sites, is what might be termed “brochure-ware” then linux servers are ideal.
select the edit  boot menu button to check your results.
only windows hosting will run microsoft specific applications such as ms sql  databases, ms access databases and iis.
the default location is the master boot record of disk number 1.
windows operating systems are found on something like 95% of all personal  computers in the world.
low cost of ownership: the linux os comes free of cost (or at very insignificant cost, usually cost of distribution).
now that you know the top features for each operating system, let’s compare them: performance: in low-stress conditions windows and unix servers have very similar performances but under high load unix is very superior to windows.
it is the first thing you should decide if you’re planning to buy a web hosting plan.
by default these servers are installed in text mode, the system uses fewer resources and dedicates all its power to the webpages hosted.
the average person  looking to create a website relies on the network administrator for security.
use  coupon code “1cent” tags: host, hosting, linux  hosting, vs, windows linux vs windows web hosting thursday, december 8th, 2011 | linux  hosting |
it’s true  that it is losing points to unix hosting, is true that is more expensive than a  unix hosting plan but windows still windows!!
while casting our views on linux hosting we conclude that linux is more reliable.
they offer excellent support, security and integration for microsoft products.
vexat inc. provides  cheapestdomain name registration india, and website hosting india  [http://www.vexat.org/host.html].
note that even though frontpage is a microsoft product, it is supported by both windows and unix hosts.
access  runs on a microsoft windows platform and cannot run on a linux operating system.
the process of uploading and hosting is almost same for both linux and windows web servers.
wednesday, december 21st, 2011 |linux hosting |
moreover, i provide you information about thebest linux hosting plans that will help you meet all your hosting needs.
click here for my hostgator 1¢ promo code!
instead, you should be trying to  create a website with high quality content.
most widely used: linux/unix based web hosting is most widely used compared  to windows based web hosting.
the right question isn’t “which one is the best?”
the following are the some of the important features and properties of the  two operating systems that will help you to understand them better.
the  process of uploading and hosting is almost same for both linux and windows web  servers.
use coupon code “1cent”tags: host, hosting, linux hosting, vs, windows by teeyes siva the basics of linux & windows : linux (and its close relation unix) and windows 2000 (and its close cousin windows nt) are types of software (known as operating systems) that web servers use to do the kind of things that web servers do.
no comments by richa sinha confusion often arises while choosing a web-hosting platform, as which one  is the best one and which one is the better one between linux & window
all the unix operating systems are under the gnu license, this means that anyone can access the source code and modify it, very important to optimize the server and resolve any problem or security issue, unix systems are the most flexible and stable.
regardless, this is not a fundamental difference, since there is little to differentiate ftp from telnet or ssh practically.
moreover, i provide you information about thebest linux hosting plans that  will help you meet all your hosting needs.
so, what is windows or linux web hosting and what are the advantages and disadvantages to hosting your web site on either server.
the second difference between linux and windows hosting is that they  support different programming languages.
the first step is already assumed, so if you have not installed windows 7, do so.
these days, all linux web servers are coming with installable front page extensions, and this should pose no problem for hosting on a linux platform.
with these two partitions successfully implemented, we must select the location which the boot loader is installed in.
hardware compatibility: unix can run on different  hardware platforms but windows can’t.
note that if you select “front page extensions” during web site design, you must enable front page extensions on a linux web server also.
also, it has fully fledged server, and desk top applications that come free with the os.
they’re a good choice for either shared or dedicated hosting, but the features offered by windows servers do come at an extra cost which may be an issue for small businesses.
they’re also very flexible and the services running on a given webserver are easily customizable.
the cost effectiveness in this competitive era is a major boost that the companies required without compromising on the quality and security of the product.
by choosing a linux hosting plan, you will find yourself in good company.
reprint freely as long as you provide a clickable link  back to my website from this resource box.
they have to buy them all from microsoft, and that cost gets passed on to you.
deciding on  the operating system that you will use to host your site was a big factor in  determining how the site would be designed.
do not focus your efforts attempting to compare linux hosting with other hosting platforms.
of course, other factors such as power supply, network admin skills, and network load etc. also matter when it comes to maintaining the system uptime.
a web site designed for compatibility with a linux/unix based web server meets the scalability requirement easily without making any site wide design changes.
self management of your website on a linux web hosting plan with sakshay hosting is made very easy with our implementation of the award winning control panel software by sw-soft called plesk.
if you’ve followed this guide, then everything will work perfectly.
if you’ve followed this guide, then everything will work  perfectly.
in addition, linux web hosting is easy to use and is perfect for your plan.
security: windows users are burdened with the need for  anti-virus and anti-spyware software.
user friendly: when it comes to web hosting, it is easy to host on linux web servers.
also, it has fully fledged server, and desk  top applications that come free with the os.
this make the difference between the price, unix hosting will always be cheaper than a windows one.
easy to move between hosts: a website designed to host on a linux server can be hosted on a windows  server easily, where as the reverse is not always true.
unix and windows operating systems are the two main types of operating system platforms on which you may host your website.
being free, are also very stable.
if you don’t need any of the features mentioned above, linux hosting is a fine choice for your needs.
this question is often asked when webmasters start looking for web site hosting.
this is only required if you are  uploading using http feature (http://www.yourwebsite.com) of front page.
there are many website creators who want to compare linux hosting in order to see how it measures up with other operating systems.
use coupon code “1cent”tags: host, hosting, linux hosting, vs, windows by richa sinha confusion often arises while choosing a web-hosting platform, as which one is the best one and which one is the better one between linux & window hosting.
for competent administrators, it will not matter which os is being used.
the above information  helps you to choose the better one that suits your requirements.
in this article i will show you the advantages of each one and a short comparison between them.
linux is usually associated with php, perl, and cgi, while windows is associated with coldfusion and asp.
the default disk space is optimal,  so just leave the option as is and press add.
it will cost a bit more but you’ll get that back in reduced  development time and simply better functionality.
in the web server world though, windows based servers are behind less than 20% of all websites on the internet.
these server applications (such as  ftp, web server, dns server, file server etc.) are also very stable.
the installer will start  automatically.
basically it means that you can host web sites that use different types of  server side scripts including .cgi, .pl, .php, and .asp
this is only required if you are uploading using  http feature of front page on your website.
if you’re considering a unix host and using frontpage, make sure they offer “frontpage extensions” support.
reprint rights statement: this article is free for republishing by visitors provided the author bio box is retained as usual so that all links are active/linkable with no syntax changes.
a web site designed to be hosted on a linux  based web server can be hosted on a windows web server easily, where as the  reverse is not always true.
more than likely, this feature is aimed specifically at their respective target audiences.
note that even though frontpage is a microsoft product, it is supported by  both windows and unix hosts.
indeed,most of the  clients websites of aalpha net runs on the linux os precisely because of this  traditional stability.
easy to move between hosts: a web site designed to be hosted on a linux  based web server can be hosted on a windows web server easily, where as the  reverse is not always true.
a web site designed for compatibility with a linux/unix based web server
if specific requirements are not important, you should let qualified administrators examine whether you need the best linux hosting plan or whether you should use another operating system.
the operating system you choose can make a big difference  in your business plans as your website grows.
windows servers can provide very good uptime as well, but to do so the web hosting company has to be proficient with microsoft systems.
the above information helps you to choose the better one that suits your requirements.
windows fixes their  vulnerabilities when they issue periodic service packs.
in the web server world though, windows based servers are behind less than  20% of all websites on the internet.
tags: host, hosting, lamp, linux, unix, windowstags: host, hosting, lamp, linux, unix, windows by john lenaghan windows or unix/linux – which operating system should you choose for your web hosting?
crossing the os boundary: some application softwares written for unix will not run under windows and vice versa.
any computer with an internet connection can login to a typical unix server using freely available software.
the first difference is how users  interact with the server.
and why are the web designers choosing unix plans?
with such a total dominance, microsoft windows is top  of mind to most new people looking for web hosting.
generally, the linux os comes free of cost or at a very insignificant cost, usually cost of distribution.
if apps are microsoft-specific, then windows is what you need.
the million-dollar question is what application are you looking to use for  your hosting?
in fact, if you need asp without  .net features, most linux hosting plans do not offer support for it.
compatibility: if you designed a website under a unix  server you can easily host it on the windows server, but the reverse is not  always possible.
fragmentation: unix file system doesn’t suffer from file fragmentation but windows file system will be, which results a single file may scatter all over the hard disk as fragments.
all the major services you need to run an enterprise class website are available on linux based systems for free.
the million-dollar question is what application are you looking to use for your hosting?
you need to select [ftp://www.yourwebsite.com] for up loading using front page ftp option.
easy to move between hosts: a web site designed to be hosted on a linux based web server can be hosted on a windows web server easily, where as the reverse is not always true.
tags: host, hosting, unix, vs, windows « previous posts back
on the other hand, windows stores data anywhere in the hard disk making it  hard to backup files when switching to a new computer.
however, if you need to use microsoft technologies such as access or ms sql databases, or asp or vbscript scripting languages, you should opt for a windows host.
simplicity: to operate unix os we need a little  knowledge of character user interface, whereas it is very simple to operate  windows os.
use  coupon code “1cent” tags: host, hosting, linux  hosting, vs, windows compare linux hosting – which operating systems are best?
this question is often asked when webmasters start looking  for web site hosting.
they offer excellent support, security  and integration for microsoft products.
but  “which one is the right choice for your needs?”.
run the os without installing it: unix can be run with live cd even without installing it.
it will give a warning, which you can disregard and click continue.
the most optimal disk  space to designate for this partition is 4.4 gb, with file system of ext4.
these  server applications (such as ftp, web server, dns server, file server etc.)
the installer will start automatically.
regardless, this is not a fundamental difference, since there is little to  differentiate ftp from telnet or ssh practically.
the use of internet as a medium for integrating business across the globe  with the help of web based software applications has produced wide range of web  based technologies like asp, asp.net, jsp, php, and others.
this choice has  forced various options for web hosting now as html based sites work equally  well on both linux and windows platforms.
linux hosting plans are different from other os hosting plans in other  ways.
the reason there is often a higher cost associated with windows servers is because the software they are based on costs the hosting company money.
if you design and program a website under a unix server you can easily host it in a windows server, but the reverse is not always possible, avoiding windows languages (asp, asp.net, etc) and databases (access and ms sql) is the better choice.
on the downside, linux based web server is not fully compatible with  microsoft technologies.
scalability: a web site designed for compatibility with a linux/unix  based web server meets the scalability requirement easily without making any  site wide design changes.
in order to  accomplish this, alter the “device of boot loader installation”  from sda to sdb.
yet, if your administrators prefer a particular language make sure that compatibility is not a concern.
there are literally hundreds of thousands of web hosting companies out there.
usually, a web site starts with a few  pages of html and grows over a period of time to suit the customers  requirements.
more articles – http://www.articlesworld.com dr ravi chamria is the ceo, sakshay infosystems pvt ltd.
feel free to visit my site where i further analyze and compare linux hosting .
mostly, this  assumption is correct.
firstly, this is due to the robust architecture of linux server and secondly, due to many cost effective softwares available for protection on linux platform.
it is important to remember that linux has  vulnerabilities too.
web hosting has been around for several years now and has evolved from  simple html pages hosting, small simple sites with a few images into full blown  web based hosted applications where end users can visit a site, interact with  the web site owner, and even purchase goods and services all over the internet.
windows creates web pages in .htm format and linux writes sites in .html.
however, under high load, unix is superior to windows.
linux is usually associated with php,  perl, and cgi, while windows is associated with coldfusion and asp.
in fact, if you need asp without .net features, most linux hosting plans do not offer support for it.
microsoft windows server and redhat linux are just two examples and probably the most well known web hosting platforms.
supported hardware devices: unix supports less  hardware devices than windows.
consider the tools and scripting languages you plan to use, if you use php, perl or mysql, linux is the way forward.
this is according to the latest web server  survey from securityspace.com.
commonly, the following extensions are supported: .cgi, .html, .htm, .pl, .php,  .shtml, .xml, and others.
consider the tools and scripting languages you plan to use,  if you use php, perl or mysql, linux is the way forward.
easy to move between hosts: a website designed to host on a linux server can be hosted on a windows server easily, where as the reverse is not always true.
mssql is an enterprise class database put out by microsoft.
conclusion: unix hosting is more stable, has better performances, is more compatible and cheaper than a windows hosting plan.
usually, a web site starts with a few pages of html and grows over a period of time to suit the customer’s requirements.
crossing the os boundary: some application softwares  written for unix will not run under windows and vice versa.
this is in comparison to the free software technologies which are generally  used on unix or linux-based servers.
file system: unix protects data with journalized file  system, while windows uses both journalized and non-journalized file systems.
hostgator hosting sale ends soon!tags: host, hosting, unix, vs, windows
linux platform has been developed by community based efforts and it has  been rendered for professional use with the efforts of many it companies like  red hat, suse, mandrake, and like.
the following are the advantages of using linux based web server compared to windows based web server : stable: linux/unix operating systems has traditionally been believed to be very stable and robust.
for the average website, a unix hosting plan is often the best choice.
it is preferable to design a web site keeping this  requirements in mind.
just because you use a windows desktop pc doesn’t mean you have to  opt for windows web hosting (and the reverse is true as well).
basically it means that you can host web sites that use different types of server side scripts including .cgi, .pl, .php, and .asp
i always recommend unix hosting.
if you have a website built with microsoft .net technologies you will have to choose a windows hosting plan.
this is assuming you  have two internal hard drives with an installation of windows 7 already  existing on one of them, and the second hard drive empty and ready for use.
you will be brought to ubuntu’s partitioning tool.
if you don’t need any of the features mentioned above,  linux hosting is a fine choice for your needs.
congratulations, you now have a system that can boot both windows 7  and ubuntu on two different hard drives!
tags: host, hosting, lamp, linux, unix, windows how to select the right operating system for your web hosting thursday, december 8th, 2011 |linux hosting |
if that is linux or something else, it is preferable to choose a linux hosting plan or any other hosting plan solely on whether the features and services it provides are best for you.
this is assuming you have two internal hard drives with an installation of windows 7 already existing on one of them, and the second hard drive empty and ready for use.
looking for the perfect hosting plan for them.
having said that, unless you are putting a heavy load on your php scripts, this will not be noticable.
there is less protection of data with the non-journalized file systems.
in the past, there were major differences between the linux and windows hosting platforms.
(this is very important and if  you’re planning to use any of those languages or applications in you  website, you have to buy a windows hosting plan!).
and, these server applications being free are also very stable.
do your best  to forge great content because it is a more pertinent consideration than the  language you are using or the os that is being used.
a web site designed for compatibility with a linux/unix  based web server meets the scalability requirement easily without making any  site wide design changes.
we will begin on the second step, which is acquiring the latest ubuntu distribution and then putting the downloaded image onto a dvd, cd, or usb flash drive.
a web site housed on a linux operating  system will have very high up-time (of the order of 99.9%).
web hosting platforms vary from different types of operating systems.
to create these, choose the free  spaces under sdb, and then select add.
most widely used: linux/unix based web hosting is most widely used compared to windows web hosting.
they’re also very flexible and the services running on a given  webserver are easily customizable.
learn more about the capabilities of using a windows system for the purpose  of aubuntu dedicated server.
consider the tools and scripting languages you plan to use – if you use php, perl or mysql, linux is the way forward.
windows plans usually cost more because of the license costs imposed by microsoft.
bugs: unix has a reputation for fewer bugs (programming mistakes) than windows.
use coupon code “1cent”tags: host, hosting, linux hosting, vs, windows by evlondo cooper
tags:hosting, linux, live cd, security, unix, vs, windows by luis carvalho this simple question is every day made by many web design newbie’s looking for the perfect hosting plan for them.
change the name field to the edition of ubuntu you installed, and then select add entry.
at sakshay, we provide both kind of hosting services but the advice to companies requiring hosting for html based websites, small applications like recipe site is to use linux hosting.
he can be contacted atravi@sakshay.net or you may visit [http://www.articlesworld.com] hostgator hosting sale – 1st month for 1 penny!
yet, linux is the only one that offers telnet or ssh access.
yet, if your administrators prefer a particular language make  sure that compatibility is not a concern.
go through the initial steps per its instructions until you get  to the “installation type” page.
it’s easier to upgrade and expand.
as  a result, the best linux hosting and the best windows hosting are nearly the  same.
if you want to use a windows based tool such as front page for uploading a web site on to a linux based web server, make sure that the front page extensions are enabled.
only windows plans support scripting languages for dynamic content such as  active server pages (asp) and asp.net, cold fusion, active perl and visual c++.
now let’s make a unix hosting overview: nowadays most of the web designers are choosing unix servers to host their websites.
to create these, choose the free spaces under sdb, and then select add.
with the cost savings usually found with linux hosting plans, linux hosting is usually the right choice for you.
the result was a webpage [http://www.besttopwebhost.com], a free web host directory, were you can find the top providers and plans reviews.
on the other side, for unix it is not required, as it is more secure than windows.
the first two options will  install on the current hard drive, which is not what we want.
linux web  hosting are typically found to be the most stable and efficient system and as  such, it is commonly used for the demanding environment of web and mail server.
all the major services you need to run an enterprise class website are  available on linux based systems for free.
yet, most people agree that linux is better at issuing  updates and patches because their system is open source.
supports perl, cgi-bin, php3, shells, mysql, postgressql,  ms frontpage extensions and much much more.
restart your computer and see if ubuntu is in the boot menu for windows 7.
it is preferable to design a web site keeping this requirements in mind.
no comments by george szifo linux web hosting (often referred to as lamp – linux, apache, mysql  & php) solutions are suitable for webmasters who use linux hosting  features, such as perl programming, php programming and mysql database.
wednesday, december 7th, 2011 |learn linux - linux help | 6 comments which operating system is more functional – windows or unix (linux)?
both these web server are used by users for different purposes and the  selection of the web hosting depends upon the nature of the website or business.
brochure-ware sites will offer some interaction through enquiry forms and can certainly incorporate online purchasing and other routine e-commerce functions.
now that you know the top features for each operating system, let’s  compare them: performance: in low-stress conditions windows and unix servers have very similar  performances but under high load unix is very superior to windows.
the second step is to acquire the latest ubuntu distribution and then transfer it onto either a dvd, cd, or usb drive.
at  sakshay, we provide both kind of hosting services but the advice to companies  requiring hosting for html based websites, small applications like recipe site  is to use linux hosting.
application software: you will get application software  along with unix os package, whereas with windows you won’t get it.
we publish on topics  after analyzing rigorously so this information is useful to our visitors.
if you want to use a windows based tool such as front page for  uploading a web site on to a linux based web server, make sure that the front  page extensions are enabled.
you can use almost all types of file extensions (or scripts) when using linux web server.
download the release of your choice, but the latest distribution is always recommended.
the default location is the  master boot record of disk number 1.
if however your site incorporates an online searchable database or interactive chat facilities then windows 2000 or nt will be a better bet in most cases.
we also provide windows hosting with plesk panel.
once installed, load up easybcd and select add new entry tab.
the cost effectiveness in this competitive era is a major boost that the  companies required without compromising on the quality and security of the  product.
the same rule applies if you had developed your website with ms frontpage, usually unix systems have frontpage extensions installed.
many of these companies offer both windows hosting and linux hosting  plans.
reprint freely as long as you provide a clickable link back to my website from this resource box.
unix/linux-based web hosts unix and linux are two different operating systems, but because they work essentially the same way, we’ll consider them as one for the purposes of this article.
tags: host, hosting, linux, os, unix, vs, windows which operating system is more functional – windows or unix?
if however your site incorporates an online searchable database or  interactive chat facilities then windows 2000 or nt will be a better bet in  most cases.
select the linux/bsd, and select grub2 from the type menu.
if you are using any specialized applications or vb for development of your web  site, it is preferable to host with a windows based web server.
it’s typically found to be the most reliable, stable and efficient system and, as such, it’s commonly used for the demanding environment of web and mail servers.
when it comes to web hosting, it is easy to host on linux web servers.
also, it has full fledged  server, and desk top applications that comes free along with the os.
we have to access the windows boot configuration data (bcd), which can be done using quality freeware programs such as easybcd.
go to the ubuntu main website and go under the downloads section.
windows hosting overview: everyone knows windows server operating systems family!
with these two partitions successfully implemented, we must select the  location which the boot loader is installed in.
first a short and very important advantage: the price, the web host companies usually use free editions of unix systems like linux red hat, linux fedora core or even freebsd operating system, this fact lower the final price for the costumer because the web hosts don’t have to pay for the server operating system.
if you need  an enterprise class database there are some alternatives that run on a linux  platform but if you need microsoft’s mssql database, a windows hosting  plan will have to be your choice.
choosing the efficient operating system is depends on several factors.
use coupon code “1cent”tags: host, hosting, linux hosting, vs, windows by george szifo linux web hosting (often referred to as lamp – linux, apache, mysql & php) solutions are suitable for webmasters who use linux hosting features, such as perl programming, php programming and mysql database.
he can be reached @  siva@aalphanet.com or 00 91 452 3105858.
well,  that’s just the answer isn’t it?
ftp lets you download the  file locally, while telnet and ssh allow you to change the root file on the web  server through unix commands.
no comments by ravi chamria any person interested in publishing any data on the internet requires web  hosting.
you need to select  [ftp://www.yourwebsite.com] for up loading using front page ftp option.
having said  that, unless you are putting a heavy load on your php scripts, this will not be  noticable.
compatibility: if you designed a website under a unix server you can easily host it on the windows server, but the reverse is not always possible.
download the release of your choice, but the latest distribution is always  recommended.
the first partition is mounted in /boot,  where you can choose between ext2 or ext4.
a web site housed on a linux operating system will have very high up-time (of the order of 99.9%).
only windows plans support scripting languages for dynamic content such as active server pages (asp) and asp.net, cold fusion, active perl and visual c++.
the process of uploading and hosting is almost same for both linux and  windows web servers.
knowing this, how can you know when you need windows hosting and when linux hosting will work just as well or better?
the result was a webpage [http://www.besttopwebhost.com], a free web host  directory, were you can find the top providers and plans reviews.
make sure it is sdb, and then click install now.
a website hosted on a  linux operating system will have very high up-time.
if you want to use a windows based tool such as front  page for uploading a web site on to a linux based web server, make sure that  the front page extensions are enabled.
the menace of viruses, spamming and hacking is also quite less with linux hosting.
there tend to be  more hosts who are familiar with unix than with windows on the hosting side of  things.
these server applications (such as ftp, web server, dns server, file server etc.) are also very stable.
the database languages are also dissimilar, with windows users favoring access while linux users prefer mysql.
website hosting: if you want to use mysql as backend then go for unix.
so, all kudos to linux and open source technologies for making the technology affordable and within the reach of common man.
so, all kudos to linux and open source technologies for making the  technology affordable and within the reach of common man.
multi-user system: windows os is designed to be used by  one person at a time, whereas multiple persons can share unix os at a time in a  network.
if you are using microsoft’s sharepoint services like some of the sharepoint features found in frontpage 2003, a windows hosting plan is your only choice.
do your best to forge great content because it is a more pertinent consideration than the language you are using or the os that is being used.
a web site designed for compatibility with a linux/unix based web  server meets the scalability requirement easily without making any site wide  design changes.
linux hosting plans are different from other os hosting plans in other ways.
however, they can make  difference depending on your preference for a certain language.
they’re a good choice for either shared or dedicated hosting, but the  features offered by windows servers do come at an extra cost which may be an  issue for small businesses.
.net technologies including asp.net are not available on linux  platforms.
the last of the options, “something  else”, should be selected, and click continue.
more than likely, this  feature is aimed specifically at their respective target audiences.
the following are the advantages of using linux based web server compared  to windows based web server: stable and robust: linux/unix operating systems has traditionally been  believed to be very stable and robust.
vexat inc. provides cheapestdomain name registration india, and website hosting india [http://www.vexat.org/host.html].
web hosting has been around for several years now and has evolved from simple html pages hosting, small simple sites with a few images into full blown web based hosted applications where end users can visit a site, interact with the web site owner, and even purchase goods and services all over the internet.
.net technologies including asp.net are not available on linux platforms.
there still are a few differences.
linux, apache, mysql and php are  being used together to provide the infrastructure behind some of the most  traffic intensive sites on the internet.
while  windows is targeted to the mass public, linux is more focused toward the  features that programmers want.
it is the first thing you should  decide if you’re planning to buy a web hosting plan.
you will only need windows hosting if you’re going to develop in asp, .net or vb.
(this is very important and if you’re planning to use any of those languages or applications in you website, you have to buy a windows hosting plan!).
ease of use : when it comes to web hosting, it is easy to host on linux web servers.
if specific requirements are not important, you should let qualified  administrators examine whether you need the best linux hosting plan or whether  you should use another operating system.
most widely used : linux/unix based web hosting is most widely used compared to windows based web hosting.
unix can run stable much time than a windows server and unix up-time is bigger.
as mentioned earlier,  interactive websites usually rely on asp, php, or perl type languages.
application software: you will get application software along with unix os package, whereas with windows you won’t get it.
third, we will install ubuntu onto the second hard drive.
a web site designed to be hosted on a linux based web server can be hosted on a windows web server easily but this is not possible with the window web hosting.
firstly, this is due to the robust architecture of linux server and
before that, there’s something you must know, the operating system that you use on your desktop has nothing to do whit the one used by your web host to serve your webpage many people think that if they use on their desktop a windows operating system they have to use a windows hosting plan, that’s absolutely not true!!
linux web hosting are typically found to be the most stable and efficient system and as such, it is commonly used for the demanding environment of web and mail server.
a web site is dynamic.
if you don’t have an iso burner, place the.iso onto your usb flash drive.
price: any server hosting a website require a operating system and licenses, windows 2003 and applications like sql server costs a lot of money, on the other hand, unix, usually linux, is free to download, use and operate.
lastly, we will make  modifications to windows 7 and its boot program, in order to boot ubuntu from  its boot menu.
but “which one is the right choice for your needs?”.
any computer with an  internet connection can login to a typical unix server using freely available  software.
well in most of the cases, the general inclination generally moves towards  the linux web hosting platform and not on the window web hosting, because there  are several positive factor that affect linux and that linux carries with  itself.
this is what will ultimately help determine the type of web hosting that will work best for you.
ability to run without gui: unix can run without  graphical user interface so it needs less hardware horsepower than windows.
most widely used: linux/unix based web hosting is most widely used  compared to windows web hosting.
this allows development using technologies such as active server pages (asp), com, and the newer.
by emma rosenberg this article will detail how to dual boot windows 7 and the latest ubuntu  distribution on a single computer using two hard drives.
ease of use : when it comes to web hosting, it is easy to host on linux web  servers.
first, we will install a new windows 7 copy or keep the existing installation.
simplicity: to operate unix os we need a little knowledge of character user interface, whereas it is very simple to operate windows os.
find out more at http://www.hostingreport.org hostgator hosting sale ends soon!
indeed,most of the clients websites of aalpha net runs on the linux os precisely because of this traditional stability.
front page also makes it possible to upload a web site using ftp.
in general, linux hosting plans are at least 20% cheaper than windows hosting plans.
congratulations, you now have a system that can boot both windows 7 and ubuntu on two different hard drives!
you do not need to know any  real detail of either to make a decision as to which you need but here a few  guidelines.
before that, there’s something you must know, the operating system  that you use on your desktop has nothing to do whit the one used by your web  host to serve your webpage many people think that if they use on their desktop  a windows operating system they have to use a windows hosting plan,  that’s absolutely not true!!
so, what is windows or linux web  hosting and what are the advantages and disadvantages to hosting your web site  on either server.
for instance, trying to make alterations to access files using an operating system that runs on linux can be quite frustrating for burgeoning site developers.
once these steps are done, you will have a computer that can  boot both windows 7 from one drive, and ubuntu from the other, and freely  alternative between the two.
the virtually free distribution of php, mysql, perl has  reduced the costs of the website hosting tremendously on linux server.
as mentioned earlier, interactive websites usually rely on asp, php, or perl type languages.
do not focus your efforts  attempting to compare linux hosting with other hosting platforms.
windows cannot run until it is installing into hard disk.
change the name field to the  edition of ubuntu you installed, and then select add entry.
unlike windows, unix servers aren’t  limited to special remote administration programs.
luís carvalho is a professional web designer that decided with more  5 experienced web designers to start rating all the web hosts that our clients  use.
to top please enjoy my blog!
meets the scalability requirement easily without making any site wide design  changes.
bugs: unix has a reputation for fewer bugs (programming  mistakes) than windows.
apart from asp, asp.net, all other major web based technologies work well with linux.
generally, the linux os comes free of  cost or at a very insignificant cost, usually cost of distribution.
this choice has forced various options for web hosting now as html based sites work equally well on both linux and windows platforms.
if you need mssql as backend then windows os is a better  option.
the installation is straightforward and simple.
performance: under low-stress conditions, both have  similar performance.
fragmentation: unix file system doesn’t suffer  from file fragmentation but windows file system will be, which results a single  file may scatter all over the hard disk as fragments.
advantages of using linux based server compared to windows based web  server:- 1.stable:- linux operating system is very stable and robust.
luís carvalho is a professional web designer that decided with more 5 experienced web designers to start rating all the web hosts that our clients use.
and why now linux is gaining more popularity.
when it comes to web hosting, linux has, for some time, been widely considered the best os for web servers.
placing user data: unix stores all user data in the home directory making it much easier to migrate from an old computer to new one.
linux platform has been developed by community based efforts and it has been rendered for professional use with the efforts of many it companies like red hat, suse, mandrake, and like.
tags:hosting, linux, live cd, security, unix, vs, windows unix vs windows hosting-which one is the best? wednesday, november  23rd, 2011 |linux hosting |
initialize your second hard disk by selecting it and then click on the button, new partition table.
it is important to remember that linux has vulnerabilities too.
on the downside, linux based web server is not fully compatible with microsoft technologies.
for instance,  trying to make alterations to access files using an operating system that runs  on linux can be quite frustrating for burgeoning site developers.
now, in this period of cross-system web hosting, the differences in the operating systems are relatively small.
security: windows users are burdened with the need for anti-virus and anti-spyware software.
unlike windows, unix servers aren’t limited to special remote administration programs.
tag: windows dual boot windows 7 and ubuntu on two hard drives thursday, february
this is according to the latest web server survey from securityspace.com.
file system: unix protects data with journalized file system, while windows uses both journalized and non-journalized file systems.
unix is a robust operating system  and can easily handle hosting multiple websites on a single server.
when it comes to web hosting, linux has, for some time, been widely  considered the best os for web servers.
self management of your website on a linux web hosting plan with sakshay  hosting is made very easy with our implementation of the award winning control  panel software by sw-soft called plesk.
if that  is linux or something else, it is preferable to choose a linux hosting plan or  any other hosting plan solely on whether the features and services it provides  are best for you.
plesk is a web based interface to your  linux web hosting account that allows you to create e-mail addresses and  mailboxes, view your web site traffic statistics, set permissions on your html,  php pages, mysql, and more.
there will be three options: install ubuntu alongside windows 7, replace windows 7 with ubuntu, and “something else”.
go to the easybcd website and to the downloads section, and select the “download free for limited, non-commercial use.”
if your site, like most web sites, is what might be termed  “brochure-ware” then linux servers are ideal.
note that if you select “front page extensions”; during web site design, you must enable front page extensions on a linux web server also.
no comments by teeyes siva the basics of linux & windows : linux (and its close relation unix) and windows 2000 (and its close cousin  windows nt) are types of software (known as operating systems) that web servers  use to do the kind of things that web servers do.
lastly, we will make modifications to windows 7 and its boot program, in order to boot ubuntu from its boot menu.
scripting is also handled by microsoft technologies such as asp (active server pages) and vbscript.
usually, a web site starts with a few pages of html and grows over a period of time to suit the customers requirements.
deciding on the operating system that you will use to host your site was a big factor in determining how the site would be designed.
as long as you understand how to use your ftp or web publishing software, your  can use either operating system.
john lenaghan writes about unix & windows web hosting, business hosting  and other website hosting topics on the hosting report website.
restart your computer and see if ubuntu is in the boot menu for  windows 7.
both these web server are used by users for different purposes and the selection of the web hosting depends upon the nature of the website or business.
tags: boot, easybcd, ubuntu, windows why is linux hosting gaining more presence than windows hosting?
select the edit boot menu button to check your results.
scalability: a web site designed for compatibility with a linux/unix based web server meets the scalability requirement easily without making any site wide design changes.
he can be reached @ siva@aalphanet.com or 00 91 452 3105858.
most widely used : linux/unix based web hosting is most widely used  compared to windows based web hosting.
tags: boot, easybcd, ubuntu, windows by ravi chamria any person interested in publishing any data on the internet requires web hosting.
access runs on a microsoft windows platform and cannot run on a linux operating system.
windows fixes their vulnerabilities when they issue periodic service packs.
learn more about the capabilities of using a windows system for the purpose of aubuntu dedicated server.
if everything is correct, exit out of easybcd.
if you are using any specialized applications or vb for  development of your web site, it is preferable to host with a windows based web  server.
these server applications (such as ftp, web server, dns server, file server etc.) being free, are also very stable.
the million-dollar question is what application are you looking to use  for your hosting?
the most optimal disk space to designate for this partition is 4.4 gb, with file system of ext4.
this is in comparison to the free software technologies which are generally used on unix or linux-based servers.
conclusion: unix hosting is more stable, has better performances, is more compatible  and cheaper than a windows hosting plan.
each has its own set of  unique features, advantages and disadvantages.
once the hard drive has been initialized, you will create a partition on it made for ubuntu.
hostgator hosting sale – 1st month for 1 penny!
by brochure-ware i  mean a site that offers the kind of information that in the past might have  been provided on paper in the form of brochures, newsletters or data sheets.
third,  we will install ubuntu onto the second hard drive.
therefore the above mentioned points proves that linux web hosting maintain a much better position than window web hosting on the server platform.
only windows hosting will run microsoft specific applications such as ms sql databases, ms access databases and iis.
these days, all linux web servers are coming  with installable front page extensions, and this should pose no problem for  hosting on a linux platform.
use coupon code “1cent”tags: host, hosting, linux hosting, vs, windows by joe duchesne
one of the most important characteristics of unix-based servers is that they can handle a large amount of traffic.
this background of community development and open source nature of linux server and backup of professional it companies has made linux platform more powerful, inexpensive and secured.
stability: unix handles high server loads than windows; unix systems rarely require a  reboot, windows constantly need them.
the first difference is how users interact with the server.
they  have to buy them all from microsoft, and that cost gets passed on to you.
windows-based web hosts windows-based servers use programs such as microsoft access and ms sql for  “back-end” operations.
the first partition is mounted in /boot, where you can choose between ext2 or ext4.
we publish on topics after analyzing rigorously so this information is useful to our visitors.
it’s true that it is losing points to unix hosting, is true that is more expensive than a unix hosting plan but windows still windows!!
if you have  any question or comment, please contact me at mailto:luis@besttopwebhost.com.
john lenaghan writes about unix & windows web hosting, business hosting and other website hosting topics on the hosting report website.
the operating system you choose can make a big difference in your business plans as your website grows.
brochure-ware sites will offer some interaction through enquiry forms and can  certainly incorporate online purchasing and other routine e-commerce functions.
note  that if you select “front page extensions” during web site design,  you must enable front page extensions on a linux web server also.
this background of community development and  open source nature of linux server and backup of professional it companies has  made linux platform more powerful, inexpensive and secured.
windows cannot run until it is installing  into hard disk.
there tend to be more hosts who are familiar with unix than with windows on the hosting side of things.
as a result, the best linux hosting and the best windows hosting are nearly the same.
first, we will install a new windows 7 copy or keep the  existing installation.
front  page also makes it possible to upload a web site using ftp.
apart from asp, asp.net, all other major web based technologies work  well with linux.
the first two options will install on the current hard drive, which is not what we want.
you have to make the choice that best suits your particular needs.
ftp lets you download the file locally, while telnet and ssh allow you to change the root file on the web server through unix commands.