both sides come from a my  world is best perspective and solve the same task problem a different way.
also, not one respondent had seen the libsmbclient library capabilities from kde konqueror that allows smb network browsing.
linux users do not know how to use dial-up networking ms windows networks can not be browsed from linux workstations linux is immature will cause high costs in the long run
conclusion: linux does not work well with devices that are more or less specific to ms windows (surprise!)
applications work faster and more smoothly than ms windows applications linux applications are better for the job the linux desktop offers more choices linux is more productive applications works faster and smoother linux applications and tools are better for the job linux desktop has more choices comment: the comment of  abuse of ms windows users is a foolish jab that alienates and does nothing to  bridge the credibility gap!
conclusion: respondents from both sides admitted to not liking to deal with installation, no matter how easy it might seem.
hardware support: linux has comprehensive support for: video controllers
we can not find anyone who knows how to do things that are simple in ms windowswe can not find anyone who knows how to do things that are simple in ms windows - vendors can not make any money from linux users - some linux vendors do not support linux - can't buy help desk support contract for linux
conclusion: both sides of the opinion gap believe that their preferred platform costs least to maintain none offered any concrete proof.
linux requires on-site development staff or  contractors to fix serious bugs and to apply kernel patches (3 mentions) ultimately linux using sites need to out-source support since a company can not  rely on internal staff to remain current on all issues ms powerpoint is the  best presentation tool (everyone uses it) (10 mentions)
) if a user must use an ms windows application is can be run on linux: - using the wine application (2 mentions) - using win4lin (3 mentions) - using vmware (4 mentions)
conclusion: more evidence of a knowledge gap, although the criticism of difficulty of linux deployment seems like an informed comment.
there are no financial applications for linux (myob and quicken were mentioned: the issue raised was the ability to export data to users of these two applications.
while there is a knowledge gap here, responses ring of i prefer what i know best trust: pro-linux perceptions: linux is based on the same open source software that powers the internet i know
comment: i flew seated next to the ceo of an isp who told me his whole  company runs on linux, that his company never had a problem with a linux user  and that over 95% of support staff time is taken up helping ms windows users to  do things that are very simple to do!
we can never be certain which  microsoft patches need to be installed: too many to choose from don't trust ms patches because of many instances of downtime caused by  faulty patches linux offers great interoperability
this  message is thus not to be!
- no roadmap - no future -
the assertion that windows 2000 server supports larger files was based on the understanding that linux has a 2gb file size limit.
nt/2000/.xp pro are all different platforms applications work faster and more smoothly than ms windows applicationsapplications work faster and more smoothly than ms windows applications - microsoft service packs punch further holes in the single platform proposition - try using a windows 95 video driver under windows 2000!
this interview was the perfect vehicle to reinforce the message that linux is  the best means of reducing the cost of ownership of an it infrastructure.
(1  mention) use of a crm application that requires ms sql, so it is cheaper to  have just one platform.
conclusion: opinions share no common ground.
pro-windows respondents saw ms exchange as synonymous with internet email mircosoft have done a good job with their messaging here!
pro-windows respondents saw ms exchange as  synonymous with internet email mircosoft have done a good job with their  messaging here!
one respondent severely criticized microsoft for problems some users experienced with internet explorer but then excused this as a necessary side effect of a maturing technology while at the same time laying aside all consideration that linux might be going through the same maturation process.
the ms terminal server issue was raised by two respondents, neither of whom were aware of vnc, the citrix ica client for linux, nor of other tools for ms windows terminal server access from linux systems.
there is no pc anywhere for linux (and that is our help-desk and administration standard) linux media players stink interoperability will never happen!
reputation: pro-linux perceptions: linux is the fastest growing os platform linux is cool!
the slammer worm killed many networks in january because ms sql is too  hard to secure windows security breaches are on the increase microsoft shipped a faulty nt4 patch that took my network down in december 2002
- applications works faster and smoother - linux applications and tools are better for the job - linux desktop has more choices pro-windows perceptions: ms windows is the most used os platform isps do not support linux (pacbell mentioned directly) linux users are know-it-alls (softened form of real term used)
we can not do without ms outlook client - you can not buy ms exchange server for linux - linux is not compatible with the internet explorer 6 standard - can't buy a decent live email backup client for linux like the one we bought for outlook -
it was disappointing that several answers related  to linux as a server platform, not as a desktop tool.
every linux distribution is it's own os - poor backwards  compatibility between updates openoffice loses ms word document formatting windows applications allow the user to be more task focused than linux  applications no need to do software programming to make it work
security: there is no such thing as a linux virus, all viruses are just programs!
cost: pro-linux perceptions: the economic environment is tough and it budgets are being cut linux is free (10 mentions)
with linux it is easier to image hard disks for replicated deployment ms windows is too complicated to manage / maintain pro-windows perceptions: many vendors do not support linux
it is possible to build a whole application in pgaccess, just as  can be done with ms access.
the cost of acquisition of a complete linux based solution (server) is much lower than an equivalent microsoft windows solution.
linux is daunting to new users windows is more predictable than linux is windows xp pro is easier to deploy (esp.
ease of installation: pro-linux perceptions: linux gui installers are easier to use than ms windows xp's installation process linux mass roll-out is easier (requires fewer staff) and is less costly than windows xp linux installation is a once only affair pro-windows perceptions: linux means i have to get rid of all current software and deploy all new stuff -- means i can not use my existing ms windows application servers nearly all new machines come pre-installed with windows everyone (users) know how to install ms windows software, with linux i'd need and army to install applicationseveryone (users) know how to install ms windows software, with linux i'd need and army to install applications -
there is no linux equivalent!
familiarity: pro-linux perceptions: the linux desktop is just like the microsoft windows desktop openoffice is very familiar to users of ms office linux is easier to deploy than ms windows comment: the respondent who answered that linux was easier to deploy than ms windows had never deployed ms windows!
every linux distribution is it's own os - poor backwards compatibility between updates openoffice loses ms word document formatting windows applications allow the user to be more task focused than linux applications - no need to do software programming to make it work (1 mention) - windows applications are the best for the job - ms windows has one totally consistent interface
there are very few linux applications we can not do without ms outlook client you can not buy ms exchange server for linux linux is not compatible with the internet explorer 6 standard can't buy a decent live email backup client for linux like the one we  bought for outlook
- why go through the pain of installing something else?
cost: the economic environment is tough and it budgets are being cut linux is  free (10 mentions)
but both platforms clearly offer a usable choice of alternatives.
linux printing stinks linux media  players stink interoperability will never happen!
conclusion: both sides of the opinion gap believe that their preferred platform costs  least to maintain none offered any concrete proof.
when i mentioned industry standards compliance he replied that i should just  accept the fact that what everyone uses is the standard.
when i mentioned industry standards compliance he replied that i should just accept the fact that what everyone uses is the standard.
- gdi printers - winmodems - video cards - pcmcia cards software support: pro-linux perceptions: community help is fast and free one can use vnc to support both linux and ms windows network clients linux software is easier to keep up to date linux has the best remote administration tools (like rsh, ssh, webmin)linux has the best remote administration tools (like rsh, ssh, webmin)
security: pro-linux perceptions: there is no such thing as a linux virus, all viruses are just programs!
postgresql/mysql are better and faster one can comfortably use older hardware with linux (it is fast and lesser hardware)
ms had to withdraw this patch!
linux users do not know how to use dial-up  networking ms windows networks can not be browsed from linux workstations linux is immature will cause high costs in the long run
the observations were not based on any actual comparison with ms sql server.
there are lots of reputable 3rd party companies that produce (anti-)virus software.
the cost of linux support is much lower than a  microsoft windows (nt4 / 2000) based solution.
ms windows users are stupid linux is a more productive platform ms windows is not a single platform 9x/me/xp home,
the cost of linux support is much lower than a microsoft windows (nt4 / 2000) based solution.
rather an uninformed opinion!
no vendor 'lock-in' i have no idea who to call for linux help, we have no trained staff to support linux linux desktop interfaces are confusing (kde/gnome/etc) i could get fired if linux failsi could get fired if linux fails - don't feel comfortable with adding to menus - had past bad experience with setting up menus
pro-windows perceptions: samba has locking problems, it corrupts files and that is bad, bad, bad, bad!
pgaccess has an interface to sql data tables, forms, reports, views, schema manipulation, stored procedures and scripts, as well as user management capabilities.
there are no open  source alternatives to ms access ms visual studio is much better than any  open source ide (2 mentions) -- linux ide tools are back in the dark ages!
there are no open source alternatives to ms access ms visual studio is much better than any open source ide (2 mentions) --
comment: the is a native linux/unix tool that can replace ms access.
pro-windows perceptions: linux is not secure, after all it is made by back-yard hackers!
pgaccess has an interface to sql data tables, forms, reports, views, schema  manipulation, stored procedures and scripts, as well as user management  capabilities.
) if a user must  use an ms windows application is can be run on linux: using the wine application (2 mentions) using win4lin (3 mentions)
i trust openoffice microsoft are too dominant open source means: pro-windows perceptions:pro-windows perceptions: - no restrictions ever!
conclusion: clearly, the anti-linux sentiment is reflective of pro-linux opinions that alienated the pro-windows people.
reputation: linux is  the fastest growing os platform linux is cool!
fear of exposure is the key factor here.
also, it seems obvious to me that with win4lin and vmware one has to pay  for this software as well as pay for the ms windows license so why not just run  ms windows on the users' pc?
conclusion: each respondent answered from their own experiences and with their own specific biases.
there are not unified linux network management tools: nothing like microsoft mmc ms windows has the more mature rapid deployment tools (eg: norton ghost) linux is way too complicated comment/conclusion: we are still suffering a knowledge gap.
ms windows has a single sign-on facility that is much more secure than anything linux has to offer
he mentioned that ms dial-up networking issues were the singularly most frequent center of attention because windows users tamper with their settings all the time.
(1 mention) windows applications are the best for the job ms windows has one totally consistent interface
comment: corel photodraw appears to be a discontinued commercial product and it is not free.
ziff davis enterprise home | contact us | advertise | link to us | reprints | magazine subscriptions | newsletters tech rss feeds | roi calculators | tech podcasts | tech video | vars | channel news baseline | careers | channel insider | cio insight | desktoplinux | deviceforge | devsource | eseminars | eweek | enterprise network security | linuxdevices | linux watch | microsoft watch | mid-market | networking | pdf zone | publish | security it hub | strategic partner | web buyer's guide | windows for devices developer shed |
also, no respondents were aware that there is an odbc driver for postgresql and mysql that will allow ms access and ms excel to use an open source sql back-end system.
interoperability - too many to choose from - don't trust ms patches because of many instances of downtime caused by faulty patches pro-windows perceptions: there are very few linux applications linux printing stinkslinux printing stinks -
trust performance what follows is a review of key feedback items that  demonstrates the each issue.
hardware support: pro-linux perceptions: linux has comprehensive support for: hp, lexmark and epson offer great linux printing solutionshp, lexmark and epson offer great linux printing solutions - video controllers - usb (plug and play) - modems - mice - monitors and everything pro-windows perceptions: linux does not support conclusion: linux does not work well with devices that are more or less specific to ms windows (surprise!)
it  seems that linux companies have not managed to get this message across at all.
i also asked the pro-ie6 respondent how compatible his ie5.5 and ie5 systems were with ie6 and he could not see the point of my question.
applications: the linux graphical interface is just as  easy to use as ms windows linux uses industry standards compliant protocols  -- industry standard file formats also
ms windows requires on-site support staff.
it is called pgaccess and is a front end to the postgresql sql server.
ms sql is the best, it is fast and easy to configure windows 2000 server supports bigger files old hardware is unreliable and should not be used linux has no answer for ms terminal server windows 2000 server is not the faster file and print server, but it is 100% compatible!
additionally, ms windows specialists knew only of telnet and hated it!
the cost of acquisition of a  complete linux based solution (server) is much lower than an equivalent  microsoft windows solution.
why does this fact escape the pro-linux opinions?
ms windows requires on-site  support staff.
using vmware (4 mentions) comment: corel photodraw appears to be a discontinued commercial product and it is not  free.
linux ide tools are back in the dark ages!
for 1,000's of desktop installations) comment: the linux is daunting comment came from an administrator who had not used linux in over 2 years.
freedom from operating system license fees (server) no client access license fees (also called the microsoft tax by two  respondents) (fees levied to access servers)
no-one likes to be told that they have made  the 'wrong' decision.
no-one is responsible for linux integrity - who do you sue if linux fails?
he claimed that a single auto-install profile for ms windows xp professional roll-out could meet the needs of all workstations and that he was more familiar with rolling out ms windows than linux.
the linux development environment is free and very powerful (4 mentions) -- no vendor lock-in (2 mentions) all needed business applications are available for linux corel photodraw for linux is free (1 mention
microsoft have been focusing on solving the security issues and will release a hardened windows soon conclusion: each respondent answered from their own experiences and with their own specific biases.
neither side has come to grips with the other's perspective and believes their own stories regardless of reality.
also, no respondents  were aware that there is an odbc driver for postgresql and mysql that will  allow ms access and ms excel to use an open source sql back-end system.
no money for resellers and that means no resellers performance: pro-linux perceptions: apache is faster than iis samba rocks!
the last comment came from a respondent who had tried to automate the roll-out of red hat linux but complained that 'kick-start' preparations for his 3000 plus workstations would be too time consuming.
openoffice / staroffice can comfortably replace ms office;  wordperfect 8 for linux can replace ms office microsoft have increased the  licensing costs for ms windows, they will do it again!
conclusion: there is a big gap in the area of 'trust' , some of which is due to lack of exposure and lack of familiarity.
there are many free office automation solution choices (12  mentions) --
comment: i flew seated next to the ceo of an isp who told me his whole company runs on linux, that his company never had a problem with a linux user and that over 95% of support staff time is taken up helping ms windows users to do things that are very simple to do!
- 1 year in the making and no small task - there is no linux equivalent!
and that means that the companies that produce them are going to miss out on purchase decisions made by the growing number of pro-linux buyers.
linux has no obscure protocols/services makes it easier to lock down linux  us not vulnerable to worms
no-one likes to be told that they have made the 'wrong' decision.
linux is more productivelinux is more productive - linux applications are better for the job - the linux desktop offers more choices comment: the comment of abuse of ms windows users is a foolish jab that alienates and does nothing to bridge the credibility gap!comment: the comment of abuse of ms windows users is a foolish jab that alienates and does nothing to bridge the credibility gap!
so why throw it away?
comment: the comment pertaining to samba was based on a web search and not from experience, the fact is that locking problems could easily also be experienced with ms windows (and the respondent knew that but was of the opinion that if samba could not solve problems that ms windows has then there is no reason to use it).
i also asked the pro-ie6 respondent how compatible his ie5.5  and ie5 systems were with ie6 and he could not see the point of my question.
also, not one respondent had seen the libsmbclient library capabilities from  kde konqueror that allows smb network browsing.
the  linux development environment is free and very powerful (4 mentions) -- no  vendor lock-in (2 mentions) all needed business applications are available  for linux corel photodraw for linux is free (1 mention
windows 2000 supports files of up to 4terabytes, linux 2.4.x with the xfs or jfs file systems support much larger files than ms windows 2000, but i am not aware of anyone who has hit either limits for ms windows 2000 or for recent linux implementations (samba is limited by the file system on which it runs).
(1 mention) use of a crm application that requires ms sql, so it is cheaper to have just one platform.
try using a windows 95 video driver under windows 2000!
equally, the pro-windows respondents are unwilling to weight the real cost of the liabilities of their current infrastructure solutions this leads to an unwillingness to seriously consider alternatives.
we can never be certain which microsoft patches need to be installed: linux offers great interoperabilitylinux offers great
it seems that linux companies have not managed to get this message across at all.
pro-windows perceptions: microsoft funded idc report that claims that the linux tco - 13% higher than an equivalent ms windows solution (3 mentions) linux requires on-site techies to keep systems running (2 mentions) linux requires on-site development staff or contractors to fix serious bugs and to apply kernel patches (3 mentions) ultimately linux using sites need to out-source support since a company can not rely on internal staff to remain current on all issues ms powerpoint is the best presentation tool (everyone uses it) (10 mentions)
linux can be trusted anyone who buys windows should get fired, windows is not reliable, can't trust it!
ms windows users are  stupid linux is a more productive platform ms windows is not a single  platform 9x/me/xp home,
nt/2000/.xp pro are all different platforms microsoft service packs punch further holes in the single platform  proposition
both sides come from a my world is best perspective and solve the same task problem a different way.
dev shed | asp free | dev articles | dev hardware | seo chat | tutorialized | scripts | code walkers | web hosters | dev mechanic | dev archives | igrep
pro-windows perceptions: microsoft funded idc  report that claims that the linux tco - 13% higher than an equivalent ms  windows solution (3 mentions) linux requires on-site techies to keep  systems running (2 mentions)
what was even more  significant is the not one person asked offered a reply to the third question.
conclusion: each  respondent answered from their own experiences and with their own specific  biases.
no-one  is responsible for linux integrity - who do you sue if linux fails?
freedom from operating system license fees (server) no client access license fees (also called the microsoft tax by two respondents) (fees levied to access servers)
openoffice / staroffice can comfortably replace ms office; wordperfect 8 for linux can replace ms office microsoft have increased the licensing costs for ms windows, they will do it again!
they thus represent a bias and not an evaluation!
there are other open source front end tools that  allow replacement of ms access as well as ms sql server.
clearly, linux support is not as comforting to all corporate administrators as advocates might believe.
comments: ximian evolution looks and works just like ms outlook but no pro-windows  respondent knew of this tool.
there are no  financial applications for linux (myob and quicken were mentioned: the issue  raised was the ability to export data to users of these two applications.
when i mentioned the ability to run remote x-sessions with linux there was a stunned disbelief that this would work.
ms  windows has a single sign-on facility that is much more secure than anything  linux has to offer
there are many free office automation solution choices (12 mentions) --
- also easier to deploy - does not need as much support as ms windows
comment: the is a native linux/unix tool that can replace ms  access.
pro-windows perceptions: familiarity is microsoft's key score card item!
conclusion: fear and lack of familiarity are the key issues among ms windows users, excessive confidence among linux users is just as much a barrier to convincing ms windows devotees to at least become more familiar with linux.
linux users are know-it-alls (softened form of real  term used)
linux has no obscure protocols/services makes it easier to lock down linux us not vulnerable to worms windows security breaches are on the increasewindows security breaches are on the increase - the irc trojan iis worm just can not happen with linux - the slammer worm killed many networks in january because ms sql is too hard to secure microsoft shipped a faulty nt4 patch that took my network down in december 2002
the irc trojan iis worm just can not happen with linux
i trust ms office tools no-one gets fired for buying ms windows open source means: conclusion: there is a big gap in the area of 'trust' , some of which is due to lack of exposure and lack of familiarity.
it is possible to build a whole application in pgaccess, just as can be done with ms access.
linux is stable with good uptime ms word is big and clumsy comment: the assertion regarding postgresql and mysql referred to use of an sql server for web applications.
microsoft have been focusing on solving the  security issues and will release a hardened windows soon 1 year in the making and no small task
pro-windows perceptions: ms windows is the most used os platform isps do not support linux (pacbell  mentioned directly)
applications: pro-linux perceptions: the linux graphical interface is just as easy to use as ms windows linux uses industry standards compliant protocols -- industry standard file formats also
there are lots of reputable 3rd party companies that  produce (anti-)virus software.
also, it seems obvious to me that with win4lin and vmware one has to pay for this software as well as pay for the ms windows license so why not just run ms windows on the users' pc?
there is no pc anywhere for linux (and that is our help-desk and  administration standard)
comments: ximian evolution looks and works just like ms outlook but no pro-windows respondent knew of this tool.
there are other open source front end tools that allow replacement of ms access as well as ms sql server.
he mentioned that ms dial-up networking  issues were the singularly most frequent center of attention because windows  users tamper with their settings all the time.
conclusion: clearly, the anti-linux sentiment is reflective of pro-linux opinions that  alienated the pro-windows people.