the openlinux 2.4 installer includes partitioning software so that when the installation is complete, you have a linux-ms-windows dual-boot pc with linux on its own partition.
getting started with linux are you a windows user that finally is ready to test the linux waters?
and thanks to today's dual-boot, virtual machine, and mixed network software, it's easy to run both ms windows and linux on the same pc or on the same network.
nevertheless, linux still is not as easy to use as is ms windows.
nor is there the vast availability of good gui software for linux as there is for ms windows.
the plentiful availability of good, x window, linux software let's you do just about anything that you can do with an ms windows-based pc with a linux-based pc -- and just about as easily.
answer to figures 1 and 2 question: figure 1 is the linux screen shot and figure 2 is the windows 98 screen shot.
then look for an upcomingmozillaquest magazine article, or two, about selecting and installing a linux os distribution.
nor is  there the vast availability of good gui software for linux as there is for ms  windows.
answer to figures 1 and 2 question: figure 1 is the linux screen shot  and figure 2 is the windows 98 screen shot.
the linux distribution package concept is the key to commercial linux development.
you can select openlinux installation options that will install the kde, x  window, graphical (gui) desktop and gui programs.
the openlinux 2.4 installer  includes partitioning software so that when the installation is complete, you  have a linux-ms-windows dual-boot pc with linux on its own partition.
mozillaquest -- brodheadsville, pa..usa -- all rights reserved
consumer-oriented linux packagers such as caldera with its openlinux edesktop 2.4 have made linux installation and use almost as easy as using ms-windows.
in the meantime, if you cannot wait, caldera openlinux edeskop 2.4 is an  excellent, and easy-to-use linux distribution choice.
the linux distribution package concept is the key to commercial linux  development.
resources section computer connections at home, office, &
this mozillaquest magazine linux for microsoft windows users column will help you microsoft windows users who decide to try linux,  or already are trying linux, to better understand and use linux, and linux  software.
conclusion linux has come a long way towards being a viable alternative to ms windows.
free linux distributions one interesting result of the free basic linux kernel is that many linux  distribution developers maintain web and/or ftp sites from which you can  download a basic version of their linux distribution without all the features  of the linux distribution they sell.
abiword - a free, decent, ms word clone for the linux, ms windows, & other platforms linux for microsoft windows users: #4-- getting started using the windows-like desktop for linux linux for microsoft windows users: #3 - making an ms windows-like desktop for red hat linux linux for microsoft windows users: #2 - getting started with the linux ms windows-like desktop linux for microsoft windows users: introduction & overview triple-boot caldera openlinux, red hat linux, & ms windows for best of three worlds caldera openlinux red hat linux vmware ms windows copyright 2000, 2001 --
moreover linux now is an excellent supplement to ms windows.
however, if you are at least somewhat sure-footed computer-wise, it might  just be time for you to give linux a try.
however, commercial linux distribution developers can add features to the basic  linux kernel and charge for the value added features they include in their  commercial linux distributions.
school dual-boot linux & windows to get the best of both operating  system worlds how to download, install, & configure netscape 6.0 -- safely!
these gui programs include a very nice assortment of game, internet, system management, utility, graphic, word/text editing, office, and more applications that run in their own windows just as ms window programs run in their own windows.
for example, you can download caldera's openlinux 2.4 from its web site, or you can download the basic red hat  linux 7.0 distribution from its web site.
moreover, it's very easy  for ms windows people to install and to use openlinux 2.4.
mozilla milestone 0.7 browser-suite released official mozilla organization downloads index of all linux for microsoft windows users articles.
(click the ) introduction linux as an alternative to ms windows the software makes the differences some background information for novices getting started with linux conclusion resources & links
if you are faint of heart computer-wise, linux might not yet be for  you.
these gui programs include a  very nice assortment of game, internet, system management, utility, graphic,  word/text editing, office, and more applications that run in their own windows  just as ms window programs run in their own windows.
consumer-oriented linux packagers such as  caldera with its openlinux edesktop 2.4 have made linux installation and use  almost as easy as using ms-windows.
in the meantime, if you cannot wait, caldera openlinux edeskop 2.4 is an excellent, and easy-to-use linux distribution choice.
you can install openlinux 2.4 from ms windows just the way you install an ms windows program or upgrade ms windows itself.
for example, you can download caldera's openlinux 2.4 from its web site, or you can download the basic red hat linux 7.0 distribution from its web site.
you can select openlinux installation options that will install the kde, x window, graphical (gui) desktop and gui programs.
free linux distributions one interesting result of the free basic linux kernel is that many linux distribution developers maintain web and/or ftp sites from which you can download a basic version of their linux distribution without all the features of the linux distribution they sell.
this mozillaquest magazine linux for microsoft windows users column will help you microsoft windows users who decide to try linux, or already are trying linux, to better understand and use linux, and linux software.
resources & links linux for microsoft windows users: introduction & overview page -3-
you can install openlinux 2.4 from ms windows just the way you install an  ms windows program or upgrade ms windows itself.
however, if you are at least somewhat sure-footed computer-wise, it might just be time for you to give linux a try.
school dual-boot linux & windows to get the best of both operating system worlds how to download, install, & configure netscape 6.0 -- safely!
the plentiful availability of good, x window, linux software let's you do just  about anything that you can do with an ms windows-based pc with a linux-based  pc -- and just about as easily.
if you are faint of heart computer-wise, linux might not yet be for you.
the basic linux kernel is free and must be distributed freely.
figure 4.the windows 98 start  menu is very much like the k desktop k panel.
moreover, it's very easy for ms windows people to install and to use openlinux 2.4.
however, commercial linux distribution developers can add features to the basic linux kernel and charge for the value added features they include in their commercial linux distributions.
then  look for an upcomingmozillaquest magazine article, or two, about  selecting and installing a linux os distribution.
and thanks to  today's dual-boot, virtual machine, and mixed network software, it's easy to  run both ms windows and linux on the same pc or on the same network.
abiword - a free, decent, ms word clone for the linux, ms windows,  & other platforms linux for microsoft windows users: #4-- getting started using the  windows-like desktop for linux linux for microsoft windows users: #3 - making an ms windows-like  desktop for red hat linux linux for microsoft windows users: #2 - getting started with the  linux ms windows-like desktop linux for microsoft windows users: introduction & overview triple-boot caldera openlinux, red hat linux, & ms windows for  best of three worlds products