parallelism is first and  foremost a performance optimization, and therefore has its area of  applicability.
perhaps the people complaining about parallel programming have  forgotten about parallelism in everyday life: drivers deal naturally with many  other cars; sports team members deal with other players, referees and sometimes  spectators; and schoolteachers deal with large numbers of (sometimes unruly)
enterprise programmers know how to multitask and thread,  but most don’t have a clue how to tap into the power of  multicore/parallel programming.
q: what makes parallel programming harder than serial programming?
android 4.0, a unified mobile os for tablets and smartphones, features:  facial recognition for unlocking your device, near field communication wireless  technology, security enhancements and more.
river trail is an extension of javascript for parallel programming in the  browser.
- the yocto project is an open-source project that provides a complete linux development environment with tools, metadata and documentation for creating custom linux-based systems for embedded products, regardless of the hardware architecture.
* * * * click a star to rate this article leave a comment comment there are no comments at this time.
plus, it only costs $399.
java has better multicore and parallelism support, support for  dynamic languages like jruby, compiler optimizations, enhanced audio and  graphics.
for a given problem, parallelism might well be the right tool  for the job, but other performance optimizations might be better.
this light, slim premium tablet sports a 10.1” hd resolution (1280x800) display.
the two biggest learning opportunities are a)  partitioning problems[sk7]  to allow efficient parallel solutions, and b)
plus, it goes to sleep and awakes in just two seconds.
cloudbees is a platform service for building, testing and deploying java  web applications into the cloud.
[hot new 24-inch display that doesn't break the bank] - upgrade your organization’s browsers and operating systems while keeping legacy web applications running seamlessly.
it operates a secure link by generating a  sound too high-pitched for the human ear -- all you need is a speaker and  microphone.
for example, consider a collection api whose addition and deletion primitives return the exact number of items in the collection.
- naratte's zoosh mobile app neatly sidesteps the radio requirement for near-field communications (nfc).
nevertheless, parallelism can pose difficult problems for longtime sequential programmers, just asgit can be for longtime users of revision control systems.
it even works for phones that don’t run apps.
q: what makes parallel programming harder than  serial programming?
but the high-minded tools and languages of the  time are long forgotten, and rightly so.
these problems include design and coding habits that are inappropriate for parallel programming, but also sequential apis that are problematic for parallel programs.
- google's client-side web language, dart, aims to combine the best of javascript and structured programming techniques.
this mobile security app features anti-malware, firewall and anti-theft features and browsing protection in case you visit malicious websites.
apache hadoop is an open-source software framework for distributed  processing of large data sets across clusters of computers.
it holds such info as name, birth date and blood type, and can transmit links to data, like x-ray images.
nevertheless, parallelism can pose difficult problems for longtime  sequential programmers, just asgit can be for longtime users of revision  control systems.
lacie’s solid state drive delivers data transfer speeds up to  480mb/s usingintel’s thunderbolt 10gb/s technology.
- it comes with a 1 ghz dual-core processor, 4-inch high-res display (960 x 540), 8mp camera for 1080p video, an hdmi jack, 3g mobile hotspot capabilities, wi-fi, a microsd card slot, a front-facing camera and tons more.
- the cloud-based meraki enterprise cloud controller makes it easy to manage multiple wireless enterprise lans across multiple locations.
developers can write a web  application in dart and compile it to run with high performance on any browser.
microsoft’s project roslyn introduces experimental compilers for  .net that aim to bring powerful new features to c#, visual basic and visual  studio.
- opa is a concise language and development platform for writing distributed web applications.
small enough to fit in your hand (just 1.6” x 5.5” x 3.3”), it’s suitable for any computer with a thunderbolt port.
the code looks like javascript and works with html5.
- developer - mobile devices - enterprise - multicore platforms - mobile software - cloud computing - security - mobile developers - user interfaces - virtualization - it software strategy - s/w dev tools & tips - tech trends - expert insight - terms of use - - privacy - - contact us - - about us - - disclaimer - - leave feedback
q: what can best help serial programmers retool themselves into  parallel programmers?
if you want to take your mobile/multicore code to the next level, follow the river trail.
- asahi kasei corp. is introducing a tiny, inch-square rfid device that can be read by a computer or smartphone.
i have had great fun with parallel programming over the past two decades, and i hope your readers have at least as much fun in the decades to come!
norton mobile security protects against malware, phishing, theft and spam.
- lacie’s solid state drive delivers data transfer speeds up to 480mb/s usingintel’s thunderbolt 10gb/s technology.
cortexica vision systems has created a biologically inspired system that  enables intelligent image recognition using principles derived from the human  visual cortex.
built over html5 and javascript, chui works through waml, turning  it into pure hmtl5.
- version 12 of google's chrome has arrived: most notable, the browser alerts users to potential security risks (based on whether downloaded web files are on google's safe browsing api blacklist) and supports hardware-accelerated 3-d graphics in windows vista, windows 7 and mac's snow leopard.
- the 13-millimeter-thin acer aspire s3 ultrabook rivals the macbook air, with solid state drives, battery that lasts up to seven hours, second-generation intel core, and 1.3 mp hd webcam.
git is a top open source development tool designed for decentralized  development teams -- where a central source code repository may not exist, it  handles small to very large projects.
the primary solutions  were not high-minded tools or languages, but rather the lowly spreadsheet, word  processor, presentation manager, and relational database.
perhaps the people complaining about parallel programming have forgotten about parallelism in everyday life: drivers deal naturally with many other cars; sports team members deal with other players, referees and sometimes spectators; and schoolteachers deal with large numbers of (sometimes unruly) children.
- kvm is an open-source virtualization solution for linux on x86 hardware.
if you want to  take your mobile/multicore code to the next level, follow the river trail.
it spares developers from relying on the more difficult html,  css, javascript and sql codes.
to help serial programmers make the transition to parallel, we talked to distinguished ibm engineer paul e. mckenney.
the same thing will happen with parallelism:
from our sponsor first name: email: software  developer tools, compilers, libraries, sdks multicore platforms parallel  programming mobile software development open source/linux solutions  virtualization cloud computing security manageability server solutions data  center solutions desktop solutions mobile solutions server-based virtualization  client-based virtualization intel® atom™ software development graphics graphics/digital content creation and developer tools special fx/animation and  audio technologies game development: intel® visual adrenaline program the dell ultrasharp u2412m 24-inch led-backlit display features 1920- by  1200-pixel resolution, delivers 2.3 million pixels, features in-plane switching  (ips), a 2,000,000-1 contrast ratio, displayport and dvi connectivity.
(mckenney maintainsrcu in the linux kernel and has written the detailed guidebook is parallel programming hard, and, if so, what can you do about it? )
- splashtop pro lets it manage tablets accessing remote desktop computers.
the phone is enterprise-ready.
java has better multicore and parallelism support, support for dynamic languages like jruby, compiler optimizations, enhanced audio and graphics.
every git clone is a repository with complete history and revision tracking capabilities, not dependent on a central server.
back in the 1970s and 1980s, the great programming crisis was at least as  severe as the current great multicore programming crisis.
if your  design fully partitions the problem, then parallelization will be easy in  pretty much any tool or language.
yahoo!'s cocktails helps web developers write applications that maintain  their fidelity across various devices and browsers, all using standard web  technologies such as html5, javascript and css.
chocolatechip-ui is a free html development framework for mobile  interfaces.
« previous feature next feature » go to homepage rate this article *
in contrast,  addition and deletion primitives that do not return the exact number of items  in the set have simple and efficient parallel implementations.
the average person doesn’t care about fancy parallel languages and synchronization techniques; they just want their smartphone’s battery to last longer.
it identifies installed apps that use permissions that could be dangerous, and provides remote locating and locking.
it's been years, but the latest java platform upgrade, java se 7, is worth  the wait.
based in  woodside, calif., his blood type is “technology.”
this light, slim premium tablet sports a 10.1” hd resolution  (1280x800) display.
the cloud-based meraki enterprise cloud controller makes it easy to manage  multiple wireless enterprise lans across multiple locations.
(available in  winter 2011.)
add your own html, css and javascript, and voila, you've got a mobile ui!
- microsoft developer truong do built mouse without borders, which lets you control up to four computers on the same wireless network as if they were one machine with multiple displays.
it eliminates infrastructure costs by giving  it a single platform to develop and maintain apps.
eucalyptus version 3 is an infrastructure-as-a-service (iaas) solution,  amazon web services (aws)-compliant and supports cloud storage platforms.
- want to develop cross-platform apps easily?
plus, it goes to sleep and  awakes in just two seconds.
this mobile security app features anti-malware, firewall and anti-theft  features and browsing protection in case you visit malicious websites.
please try back later.
connects via wi-fi,  802.11 a/b/g/n and bluetooth.
want to develop cross-platform apps easily?
- cortexica vision systems has created a biologically inspired system that enables intelligent image recognition using principles derived from the human visual cortex.
in contrast, no tool or language will help a flawed design.
it scales to  10,000 access points and provides network-wide visibility, automatic rf  optimization, network monitoring, alerts and more.
for a given problem, parallelism might well be the right tool for the job, but other performance optimizations might be better.
- river trail is an extension of javascript for parallel programming in the browser.
there are a lot  of parallel open-source projects out there, and so there is no shortage of  existing practice to learn from.
if you are not interested in a specific application domain, focus on tools used by a vibrant parallel open-source project.
this web-based service offers secure access that backs up company data in the  case of a lost device.
its 1ghz processor runs android 3.1 honeycomb, it plays flash content and its 3mp camera shoots 720p hd video.
- eucalyptus version 3 is an infrastructure-as-a-service (iaas) solution, amazon web services (aws)-compliant and supports cloud storage platforms.
so look at the tools and languages used by parallel programmers in application domains that interest you the most.
photo credit:@istockphoto.com/michelangelus read more about: parallel programming email facebook addthis rich seidner is a technology veteran, an independent  researcher, a writer and an editor serving technology clients.
it runs within a conventional operating system, and can run multiple virtual machines running unmodified linux or windows images.
the average person doesn’t care about fancy parallel  languages and synchronization techniques; they just want their  smartphone’s battery to last longer.
here’s what he  had to say.
- dell has partnered with mobile phone service fongo to offer dell voice, a free-to-download voip phone alternative that may help users of android and ios devices save on the costs of their mobile calls.
try nitobi's phonegap.
mckenney: all tools and languages, parallel or not, are  domain-specific.
[protection against rootkit attacks] in windows 8, microsoft's windows share is a live clipboard for sharing  text, bitmaps, html, files and other type of data between applications.
it comes with a 1 ghz dual-core processor, 4-inch high-res display (960 x  540), 8mp camera for 1080p video, an hdmi jack, 3g mobile hotspot capabilities,  wi-fi, a microsd card slot, a front-facing camera and tons more.
sometimes people dismiss partitioned problems  as “embarrassingly parallel,” but these problems are exactly the  ones for which parallelism is the most effective.
- norton mobile security protects against malware, phishing, theft and spam.
based in woodside, calif., his blood type is “technology.”
unibrows, a lightweight internet explorer add-on, enables organizations to run ie6-dependent applications in ie8 or ie9 without modifying a single line of code.
but with the advent of multicore processors, most  programmers are still pretty intimidated by the prospect of true parallel  programming.
plus, it  only costs $399.
small enough to fit  in your hand (just 1.6” x 5.5” x 3.3”), it’s suitable  for any computer with a thunderbolt port.
but design is more important than specific tools or languages.
it holds such info as name, birth date and  blood type, and can transmit links to data, like x-ray images.
asahi kasei corp. is introducing a tiny, inch-square rfid device that can  be read by a computer or smartphone.
[open-source database technology] ultra-sharp, inexpensive display is your head in the cloud?
built over html5 and javascript, chui works through waml, turning it into pure hmtl5.
it spares developers from relying on the more difficult html, css, javascript and sql codes.
splashtop pro lets it manage tablets accessing remote desktop computers.
mckenney: all tools and languages, parallel or not, are domain-specific.
later they learn about multitasking and threading.
use the right  tool for the job!
so look at the tools and languages used by parallel  programmers in application domains that interest you the most.
- microsoft’s project roslyn introduces experimental compilers for .net that aim to bring powerful new features to c#, visual basic and visual studio.
this web-based service offers secure access that backs up company data in the case of a lost device.
- it software strategy - s/w dev tools & tips - tech trends - expert insight - multicore platforms - virtualization - cloud computing - security - parallel programming - open source/linux - mobile software expert insight
mcafee's deepsafe operates close to the processor and below the operating  system, enabling new protection technologies against rootkit attacks that  provide a direct view of system memory and processor activity.
facing potential android and mobile security risks, review this security  software for further peace of mind.
as a result, much of the difficulty in moving from sequential to parallel  programming is in fact adopting a new mindset.
- mongodb is an open-source data store written in c++ that supports diverse programming languages, has an sql-like query language, plus powerful features for performance and scalability for mongodb actively supported, out-of-the-box scalability.
(available in winter 2011.)
it eliminates infrastructure costs by giving it a single platform to develop and maintain apps.
the 13-millimeter-thin acer aspire s3 ultrabook rivals the macbook air,  with solid state drives, battery that lasts up to seven hours,  second-generation intel core, and 1.3 mp hd webcam.
the phone is  enterprise-ready.
why is parallel programming so hard by: rich seidner most people first learn how to program serially.
but the high-minded tools and languages of the time are long forgotten, and rightly so.
for example, the project i participate in has been called out as having made great progress in parallelism by some prominent academic researchers.
[protection against rootkit attacks] - in windows 8, microsoft's windows share is a live clipboard for sharing text, bitmaps, html, files and other type of data between applications.
copyright © 2012 studio one networks.
it runs within a conventional operating system, and can run multiple virtual  machines running unmodified linux or windows images.
mongodb is an open-source data store written in c++ that supports diverse  programming languages, has an sql-like query language, plus powerful features  for performance and scalability for mongodb actively supported, out-of-the-box  scalability.
developers can write a web application in dart and compile it to run with high performance on any browser.
- apache hadoop is an open-source software framework for distributed processing of large data sets across clusters of computers.
to help serial programmers make the transition to parallel, we talked to  distinguished ibm engineer paul e. mckenney.
there are a lot of parallel open-source projects out there, and so there is no shortage of existing practice to learn from.
microsoft developer truong do built mouse without borders, which lets you  control up to four computers on the same wireless network as if they were one  machine with multiple displays.
designed to scale to thousands of machines, it detects and handles failures at the application layer.
it is not parallel programming that is hard, but ratherprogramming itself.
q: what can best help serial programmers retool themselves into parallel programmers?
[open-source database technology] ultra-sharp, inexpensive display previous next is your head in the cloud?
opa is a concise language and development platform for writing distributed  web applications.
here’s what he had to say.
from our sponsor free subscriptions first name: email: software developer tools, compilers, libraries, sdks multicore platforms parallel programming mobile software development open source/linux solutions virtualization cloud computing security manageability server solutions data center solutions desktop solutions mobile solutions server-based virtualization client-based virtualization intel® atom™ software development graphics graphics/digital content creation and developer tools special fx/animation and audio technologies game development:
strange though it may seem, although parallel programming is indeed harder than sequential programming, it is notthat much harder.
for example,  consider a collection api whose addition and deletion primitives return the  exact number of items in the collection.
after all, if parallel  programming really is mind-crushingly difficult, why are there so many  successful parallel open-source projects?
sometimes people dismiss partitioned problems as “embarrassingly parallel,” but these problems are exactly the ones for which parallelism is the most effective.
q: what does a serial programmer have to rethink when approaching parallel programming?
later they learn about  multitasking and threading.
- git is a top open source development tool designed for decentralized development teams -- where a central source code repository may not exist, it handles small to very large projects.
intel® visual adrenaline program - the dell ultrasharp u2412m 24-inch led-backlit display features 1920- by 1200-pixel resolution, delivers 2.3 million pixels, features in-plane switching (ips), a 2,000,000-1 contrast ratio, displayport and dvi connectivity.
- mcafee's deepsafe operates close to the processor and below the operating system, enabling new protection technologies against rootkit attacks that provide a direct view of system memory and processor activity.
this has simple and efficient sequential implementations but is problematic in parallel.
i have had great fun with parallel programming over the past  two decades, and i hope your readers have at least as much fun in the decades  to come!
it operates a secure link by generating a sound too high-pitched for the human ear -- all you need is a speaker and microphone.
this platform will be used to create radically new products.
kvm is an open-source virtualization solution for linux on x86 hardware.
every git clone is a repository with  complete history and revision tracking capabilities, not dependent on a central  server.
these four lowly  tools transformed the computer from an esoteric curiosity into something that  almost no one can live without.
- cloudbees is a platform service for building, testing and deploying java web applications into the cloud.
designed to scale  to thousands of machines, it detects and handles failures at the application  layer.
dell has partnered with mobile phone service fongo to offer dell voice, a  free-to-download voip phone alternative that may help users of android and ios  devices save on the costs of their mobile calls.
it's been years, but the latest java platform upgrade, java se 7, is worth the wait.
finally, if your problem is inherently unpartitionable, perhaps  you should be looking at other performance optimization.
[hot new 24-inch display that doesn't break the bank] upgrade your organization’s browsers and operating systems while  keeping legacy web applications running seamlessly.
after all, if parallel programming really is mind-crushingly difficult, why are there so many successful parallel open-source projects?
in contrast, no tool or language will help a  flawed design.
the same thing will happen with  parallelism:
these four lowly tools transformed the computer from an esoteric curiosity into something that almost no one can live without.
as a result, much of the difficulty in moving from sequential to parallel programming is in fact adopting a new mindset.
- chocolatechip-ui is a free html development framework for mobile interfaces.
(mckenney maintainsrcu in the  linux kernel and has written the detailed guidebook is parallel programming  hard, and, if so, what can you do about it? )
this has simple and efficient  sequential implementations but is problematic in parallel.
for more on this topic, check out paul e. mckenney’s blog.
these problems include design and coding habits that are  inappropriate for parallel programming, but also sequential apis that are  problematic for parallel programs.
analysts think it may well reinvent how we view compilers and compiled languages altogether.
the yocto project is an open-source project that provides a complete linux  development environment with tools, metadata and documentation for creating  custom linux-based systems for embedded products, regardless of the hardware  architecture.
it  identifies installed apps that use permissions that could be dangerous, and  provides remote locating and locking.
parallelism is first and foremost a performance optimization, and therefore has its area of applicability.
in contrast, addition and deletion primitives that do not return the exact number of items in the set have simple and efficient parallel implementations.
back in the 1970s and 1980s, the great programming crisis was at least as severe as the current great multicore programming crisis.
this turns out to be a problem both in theory and practice.
the open-source solution lets you write and deploy apps for ios, android, blackberry, symbian and palm using html and javascript rather than objective-c and cocoa.
add your own html, css and javascript, and voila, you've  got a mobile ui!
«  previous feature next feature » click a star to rate this article leave a comment there are no comments at this time.
currently available only in canada.
how much of this is simply a new mindset one has to adopt?
q: what does a serial programmer have to rethink when approaching  parallel programming?
cross-platform or pedal to the metal?
the  open-source solution lets you write and deploy apps for ios, android,  blackberry, symbian and palm using html and javascript rather than objective-c  and cocoa.
google's client-side web language, dart, aims to combine the best of  javascript and structured programming techniques.
are you stuck on xp with ie6?
using the right tool for the job.
but with the advent of multicore processors, most programmers are still pretty intimidated by the prospect of true parallel programming.
strange though it may seem, although parallel  programming is indeed harder than sequential programming, it is notthat much harder.
if your design fully partitions the problem, then parallelization will be easy in pretty much any tool or language.
- android 4.0, a unified mobile os for tablets and smartphones, features: facial recognition for unlocking your device, near field communication wireless technology, security enhancements and more.
naratte's zoosh mobile app neatly sidesteps the radio requirement for  near-field communications (nfc).
finally, if your problem is inherently unpartitionable, perhaps you should be looking at other performance optimization.
its 1ghz processor runs android 3.1 honeycomb, it plays  flash content and its 3mp camera shoots 720p hd video.
if you are not interested in a specific  application domain, focus on tools used by a vibrant parallel open-source  project.
unibrows, a lightweight  internet explorer add-on, enables organizations to run ie6-dependent  applications in ie8 or ie9 without modifying a single line of code.
of course, i have my favorite languages, tools and techniques, mostly from  the perspective of someone hacking kernels or the lower levels of parallel  system utilities.
enterprise programmers know how to multitask and thread, but most don’t have a clue how to tap into the power of multicore/parallel programming.
photo credit:@istockphoto.com/michelangelus read more about: parallel programming rich seidner is a technology veteran, an independent researcher, a writer and an editor serving technology clients.
of course, i have my favorite languages, tools and techniques, mostly from the perspective of someone hacking kernels or the lower levels of parallel system utilities.
analysts think it may well reinvent how we view compilers and compiled  languages altogether.
why is parallel programming so hard by: rich seidner facebook addthis most people first learn how to program serially.
the primary solutions were not high-minded tools or languages, but rather the lowly spreadsheet, word processor, presentation manager, and relational database.
use the right tool for the job!
currently available only in  canada.
connects via wi-fi, 802.11 a/b/g/n and bluetooth.
it is not parallel programming that is hard, but ratherprogramming  itself.
- yahoo!'s cocktails helps web developers write applications that maintain their fidelity across various devices and browsers, all using standard web technologies such as html5, javascript and css.
version 12 of google's chrome has arrived: most notable, the browser  alerts users to potential security risks (based on whether downloaded web files  are on google's safe browsing api blacklist) and supports hardware-accelerated  3-d graphics in windows vista, windows 7 and mac's snow leopard.
facing potential android and mobile security risks, review this security software for further peace of mind.
it scales to 10,000 access points and provides network-wide visibility, automatic rf optimization, network monitoring, alerts and more.
the two biggest learning opportunities are a) partitioning problems[sk7] to allow efficient parallel solutions, and b) using the right tool for the job.