work in france - french topic (1)
okay, since you clearly didn't understand what i said in my first point, i will ask you again, how easily can you configure advanced security options across multiple systems in a large environment?
this is in sharp contrast to the strong windows system which were only breached 15 % of all servers breached.
it?s a regular linux cluster.
unless of course its bs.
yeah and how about the worms  that only affected windows servers hm?
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 10:55:20 est jun. 25 2003 bah.
furthermore, windows-based systems were found to  be far more resilient than linux-based systems during the iraq war months, from  march to may 2003, the report says, a time of increased hacking activity.
i  admit that in some casses its better to use windows solutions like exchange and  office.
can affect 1000's of machines and users security rights,  dacl settings and group memberships through directory integrated policies?
many black hats don't even bother with windows  exploits, while others specialize in them.
i can't even find it.
their are  also 100's of ways of doing it with free software, you see thats the problem  with windows theirs only one solution for a problem and if you dont like that  solution its to bad for you.
er, i mean windows user.
if windows has a "secure" version,
and from the  obvious maturity of linux zealots, we can see why linux is losing it's edge.
most of the attacks against windows  servers initiated, organized and carried out by microsoft hating, rabid,  hateful, linux fundamentalists and fanatics!!- i think i'm leaning to the  stupid side for you.
comment: spell-check notify me when someone responses to this thread.
in  nt every system object (ad objects, file system objects, threads, processes,  semaphores, etc.) has an acl with a specific rights mask.
(thats slashdot.org)  and post instead of hiding behind these windows sites.
linux and unix dont  have dacl security?
for a time i was extremely bitter at microsoft for leading me to believe  through their simple exams that i know much about computers and networks.
source: wininfo | posted by: mike | time: 9:44:00 est jun. 6 2003 notify me when someone responses to  this thread.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on  12:44:50 est jun. 17 2003 so, next time use linucks or winduckxx [ reply report ] posted by anonymous , on 6:21:11 est jun. 23 2003 so... even after stealing code from sco,  linux still stinks to high heaven, totting up to the tune of 75% (a staggering  figure) of all server based breaches worldwide!
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 8:47:10 est jun. 24  2003 wow!
[ reply report ] posted byanonymous, on 20:45:29 est jun. 10 2003
now you can tap into the rich  functionality of netagent to work for your site and add other rich services  such as search and notifications to enhance your site!
the issue you think you are referring  to is that applications with display objects (such as a window or system tray  icon) that are owned by an interactive process will receive input from a  process running in another security context.
java co-creator james gosling leaves oracle java co-creator james gosling is saying good-bye to oracle just a few months after the company acquired his longtime employer, sun microsystems.
after a year of using linux and freebsd i write my firewall scripts, write ids (intrusion detection system) signatures to watch network traffic for suspicious traffic and have a linux load-balanced cluster of atomic supermen.
this is the  same as the aberdeen report.
displaying comments 1 through 25 on page 1 of 3 posted by anonymous, on 15:03:24 est jun. 8 2003
plus of course there  are far more attacks on windows servers than any other systems on the planet;  with most of the attacks against windows servers initiated, organized and  carried out by microsoft hating, rabid, hateful, linux fundamentalists and  fanatics!!
"intelligent part of the  web"?
i just love all these paper mcse's and their surveys.
" hey loser, the biggest moron club on the planet right now is the semi-educated, vicious attack dogs of the so-called "linux community" who hide behind the bulletin boards on the internet to spew out their venom.
if you ever get around to actually learing linux  (which i doubt as it appears that your only an ms drone), then post something  intelligently.
they understand nothing about nt  internals.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 23:53:41 est jun. 26 2003 brain dead linux fanatic:"it's great to see that stupidity and ignorance still reign in ms land " most of the ignorance and stupidity on the entire planet is concentrated on the linux goebbels like propaganda sites like slashdot.
way i see it, the pathetic "linux community" is made up of sweaty palmed, anti-social, intellectually challenged, morons who can't get a date, are terrible at sports and use the internet as a means to kid themselves that they are "big" men, and try to make up for their inadequacies.
[ reply report ] posted  byanonymous, on 3:40:36 est jun. 26 2003 brain dead linux attack  dog: ?
in nt every system object (ad objects, file system objects, threads, processes, semaphores, etc.) has an acl with a specific rights mask.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 14:29:56 est jun. 10  2003 maybe he does have a point about the distributed networks being  easier, but windows more secure then linux, come on dont make me laugh and stop  fooling ur selves, how come cisco routers aren't running embedded windows ce if  windows is so secure and scalable.
so you go look at unix performance, and unix  security and then talk.
the company, which has been tracking server attacks since 1995, now oversees a database containing over 220,000 individual attacks and over 7000 hacker groups.
well, i am here to say shut the f up.
see you in  court, linux suckers!
anyone who as much as raised the slightest objection to being robed of their intellectual property was immediately viciously attacked from all angles by the linux propaganda machine, using lies, disinformation and methods that would make even hitler blush!
it still amazes me how people like post how linux users are (from above) microsoft hating, rabid, hateful, linux fundamentalists and fanatics!!
[ reply report ] posted byclams, on 16:40:31 est mar. 15 2004
but the shit on this page like: windows uber secure or the windows file system is soooo much faster then xfs or bffs come on gimme a freaking break......
the same microsoft hating losers who got their sorry butts by microsoft in the os2 wars have now turned masse to the intellectual property stealing linux, in the hope that they can take microsoft down this time.
you know what an int2e is how it?s related to functions exported by ntdll?
disclaimer | privacy statement | help | creator's blog
i've called at&t, they don't know what in the hell i am talking about, besides that i doubt they are compatible.
now i must be off, back to  the open, social world-wide community of linux.
it supports my theory that most windows administrators are  simpletons who know little of computer systems, network security and  administration or much beyond the most basic of concepts in the it world.
only  after spending time in the unix/linux world did i understand that there is a  whole other world of details happily hidden from the average mcse in a gui  world populated by little check boxes and drop-down menus.
nix system code before you knew what a computer was, so don?t assume you have even half the knowledge i do.
beta launch (95) hotmail goes mobile in asia (89) pdc 2008: windows 7 rocks (16) plus!
you are the model for which all  other admins must take after.
there are simply more unix, linux and bsd
the  receiving end of what??
i admit that in some casses its better to use windows solutions like exchange and office.
oh, and  in case your tiny little brain hasn't noticed, you are caught in a stupid,  mindless little flame war.
<... be smart, don't buy into the ipad hype the state of the news media is this: gossip and rumors are rapidly replacing factual reporting -- in large part driven by the google economy.
[ reply report ] posted byanonymous, on 3:40:36 est jun. 26 2003 brain dead linux attack dog: ?
if windows has a "secure" version, i've never  heard of it.
look it up, and read my friend cause it did, one of my clients with red hat 8 and a oracle9i database solution was taken down just like everyone else.
well, back to the intelligent part of the web.
yep, you read that right: in may 2003 alone, 19,208 successful breaches worldwide were recorded against linux-based corporate and government systems, while only 3,801 breaches were recorded against similarly-oriented microsoft windows server systems.
in administration it is much easier to use windows ad to setup a network in a distributed solution than linux.
by the time those  seasoned legal fighters from utah are through with linux, you clowns will be  looking to pakistan to find someone else to take on microsoft!
and why are big animation movies like final  fantasy (sgi irix) and dinosaurs (amiga) not renderd on windows servers?
well guess what, just because you can recompile your kernel doesn't mean you know jack.
your comment about ipchains demonstrates how stupid you  are, iptables is now used.
talk about the  cattle calling the pot black.
the security  experts say there are several main reasons: first, most linux servers are  improperly configured and do not come with decent default security  configurations.
i'm leaning to the stupid side for you.
it supports my theory that most windows administrators are simpletons who know little of computer systems, network security and administration or much beyond the most basic of concepts in the it world.
in the end, the admin is what makes the system secure.
the court imposed $430,000 in damages against the online behemoth and ordered it to remove online extracts of books pub...
in other words, everything i've been saying about  windows, linux and security was not only true, but evolving in a wonderfully  predictable way.
been fun reading postings from such individuals that support an open minded and  competitive environment.
third, because linux is becoming more popular in the server world, it's a more obvious target.
they sit there in front of their crummy gnome of kde desktop with 20 x-terms open feeling like they are h@)(0rs, trying to make themselves feel all important because they think they know more than the rest of the world.
*nix lover [ reply report ] posted byanonymous, on 15:25:14 est jun. 9 2003 sql slammer an sql problem?
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 2:34:23 est jun. 26 2003 post from rabid, clueless linux fanatic : "the height of idiocy, so welcome to the club moron.
it's great to see that stupidity and ignorance still reign in ms land and you only have to be a retard to continue to use ms products as they do the thinkin for ya.
how do you honestly include this  statement in your post and try to make it believable?
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 21:48:54 est jun. 22 2003 1.
their are also 100's of ways of doing it with free software, you see thats the problem with windows theirs only one solution for a problem and if you dont like that solution its to bad for you.
or  for someone too scared to try unix, go with bsd.
windows more sercure, dont make me laugh.
yes, i'm an  mcse/ccna/a+ who turned to unix/linux because windows is neither interesting  nor a secure model for computing.
(3) hacking mail password yahoo hotmail gmail etc (1) announcements new now you can receive wininsider.com news  notification thru msn or windows messenger.
boils down to lazy admins not patching their boxes.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous , on 14:05:49 est jun. 19 2003 isn't it true that it is because of the  "object based dacl system" that allows malicious programmers to  create viruses that use escalation of priveledge attacks using the very same  "security" feature as an "exploit"?
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 2:34:23 est jun. 26 2003 post from rabid, clueless linux  fanatic : "the height of idiocy, so welcome to the club moron.
the app can chose to a. examine the security context of the calling process and/or b. ignore the call.
you losers are every bit as bad as al quaeda in your hatred of any company that is successful in america.
please do not post comments that contain any of the following: - foul language, flaming or personal attacks - links to illegal software downloads or product keys, or requests for them - or any other harmful posts wininsider staff reserves the right to delete such messages and ban users without notice.
9:44:00 est jun. 6 2003 notify me when someone responses to this thread.
-porous, pathetic, crappy  toy operating system called linux- after reading this statement, it's  obvioius that you have never even used linux or don't know how.
i've called at&t, they  don't know what in the hell i am talking about, besides that i doubt they are  compatible.
also skript kiddies tend to  target one os more than another.
*nix lover [ reply report ] posted byanonymous, on 15:25:14 est jun. 9 2003 sql slammer an sql  problem?
isn't it time we stopped all the bogus "windows isn't secure" baloney when there is a far less secure competitor out there, just waiting to be compromised?
how do it the b (2) help colour msn screen name (33) music cd's no longer play (1) windows media player 10 (1) a footballers dream (1)
i mean come on, why does the system tray run as system, when it is a visual item displayed in a "user" context?
the ?linux community? has always operated like they were a  law unto themselves, and basically has felt free to operate within their own  self-made laws, including stealing anyone?s intellectual property whenever the  mood strikes them.
cheers [ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 18:14:51 est jun. 25 2003
the height of idiocy, so welcome to the club moron.
sql problem, not windows.
saying "linux" is lumping a large amount of distros together, many of which do not put security as a top priority.
more information about... with palm, hp reboots mobile strategy with its purchase of palm, hewlett-packard acquired more than just a smartphone maker.
this can potentially be used to  attack a process running in a privileged context from a non privileged process.
what exactly are basing "linux sticks to high heaven" on?
not one useless linux user or  admin
no company is benefitting more than apple, and most recently with the launch of ipad.
and like al quaeda, you are going to get your sorry  butts kicked over and over again!
anyone who as much as raised the slightest  objection to being robed of their intellectual property was immediately  viciously attacked from all angles by the linux propaganda machine, using lies,  disinformation and methods that would make even hitler blush!
now the day of reckoning is coming for the nasty, anti-social  linux haters.
this is the same as the aberdeen report.
after a year of using linux and freebsd i write my firewall scripts, write ids  (intrusion detection system) signatures to watch network traffic for suspicious  traffic and have a linux load-balanced cluster of atomic supermen.
[ reply report ] posted by brian finniff, on 17:38:18 est mar. 19 2004 you jerk.
you see, most linux users, admins, etc., know nothing about the enterprise windows world.
you are obvioiusly an incredibly ignorant or stupid individual by posting "even stealing code from sco" has not been proven, one way or the other.
please stop, i'm laughing out loud  now.
[ reply report ] posted byanonymous, on 9:38:25 est jun. 26 2003 i think that you  mean 'law suit'.
yet another insightful, intelligent and rational opinion from a  windoze luzer...
isn't it time we stopped all the bogus "windows isn't  secure" baloney when there is a far less secure competitor out there, just  waiting to be compromised?
can affect 1000's of machines and users security rights, dacl settings and group memberships through directory integrated policies?
you want fanaticism, bs,  stupidity, ignorance, absolute refusal to face facts and the truth, and a bunch  of slimy creeps living in cloud cuckoo land, then go to slashdot or any of the  other fanatically rabid linux sites!
the issue you think you are referring to is that applications with display objects (such as a window or system tray icon) that are owned by an interactive process will receive input from a process running in another security context.
no, i?m not going to call names at windows people (except for the aforementioned ?simpletons?
as for  your comments regarding linux acl's versus the object based dacl system in nt  (2k,xp,2k3), linux uses a simple rights mask based acl system defined by the  file system and associated system code, not a true object based dacl system.
they sit there  in front of their crummy gnome of kde desktop with 20 x-terms open feeling like  they are h@)(0rs, trying to make themselves feel all important because they  think they know more than the rest of the world.
the fact is, linux security is a myth created by people who  have an intellectual investment in propagating the myth of "'nix"  superiority, just as netware folks try do with their platform.
now i must be off, back to the open, social world-wide community of linux.
expect a whole new slew of law suites from hundreds of firms whose code has been scooped up and illegally appropriated by the linux hover machine!
there are few hacks on tru 64 and unicos, but  that doesn't make them secure by any stretch.
i  made up that last bit about atomic supermen.
what's new best experienced with site utilities web links news archives news tasks write a comment send this news to friend discuses article in forum chat about this article print this news article subscribe submit news find related news stories latest thread posts - by:
see you in court, linux suckers!
funny how the name-calling was initiated by a windows person.
plus of course there are far more attacks on windows servers than any other systems on the planet; with most of the attacks against windows servers initiated, organized and carried out by microsoft hating, rabid, hateful, linux fundamentalists and fanatics!!
microsoft's server sales keep going up, even in these depressed times for it  spending, and linux is a joke on the desktop.
but i doubt that you can  find your way.
i have yet to see a valid technical  comment or "insightful" post from someone in your useless little  camp.
what a brilliant, intelligent and insightful post.
logos curiously, this will come as a surprise to some people, but according to a  report by the security experts at mi2g, open source post boy linux is losing  the security fight, big time, to windows server.
according to the most rece... french court finds google guilty of copyright infringement a french court has found google guilty of copyright infringement for its ongoing efforts to scan books and put the content online.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 23:53:41 est jun. 26  2003 brain dead linux fanatic:"it's great to see that stupidity and  ignorance still reign in ms land " most of the ignorance and  stupidity on the entire planet is concentrated on the linux goebbels like  propaganda sites like slashdot.
now windows isnt prefect, but the guy above has a point.
you know what an int2e is how it?s  related to functions exported by ntdll?
like a complete imbecile, making yourself out to be that statement.
yet another insightful, intelligent and rational opinion from a windoze luzer...
news page | personalize | search | site map | favorites | write to us | search linux not as secure as windows server and your comments...
guess what, you don't know a damn thing, you are just a silly little  end-user who thinks they have a clue because they can read a man page.
you want fanaticism, bs, stupidity, ignorance, absolute refusal to face facts and the truth, and a bunch of slimy creeps living in cloud cuckoo land, then go to slashdot or any of the other fanatically rabid linux sites!
the guys with the better rootkits and zero day exploits aren't the ones defacing and being included in these statistics.
like a complete imbecile, making yourself  out to be that statement.
it's great  to see that stupidity and ignorance still reign in ms land and you only have to  be a retard to continue to use ms products as they do the thinkin for ya.
at least rh requires a lab test lol.
so why are linux servers being so easily compromised?
it's a lousy system, and you know what, people are beginning to realize it.
for xp gets a free update!
did not take down the sco web site is smoking something much stronger than what al asahaf, the iraqi information minister was smoking!
if you're running some old distro and spending more on coffee than security then yes u will be hacked.
source: wininfo | posted by: mike | time:
"intelligent part of the web"?
and it's not exactly the  cream of the crop attacking these servers either.
linux has nothing even approaching the object dacl model implemented in nt os's.
now the day of reckoning is coming for the nasty, anti-social linux haters.
well guess what, just because  you can recompile your kernel doesn't mean you know jack.
as for your comments regarding linux acl's versus the object based dacl system in nt (2k,xp,2k3), linux uses a simple rights mask based acl system defined by the file system and associated system code, not a true object based dacl system.
trolling as usual i see.
like the sql slammer, code red, etc etc.
you  losers are every bit as bad as al quaeda in your hatred of any company that is  successful in america.
if you're  running some old distro and spending more on coffee than security then yes u  will be hacked.
yes, i'm an mcse/ccna/a+ who turned to unix/linux because windows is neither interesting nor a secure model for computing.
but the shit on this page like: windows uber secure or the windows file  system is soooo much faster then xfs or bffs come on gimme a freaking  break......
i have yet to see a valid technical comment or "insightful" post from someone in your useless little camp.
sorry, i should have put down was the truth, closed, proprietary and monopolistic.
anyway, you losers have been fun.
the pro-linux side refutes  with : "come on don't me laugh.
also skript kiddies tend to target one os more than another.
funny how the name-calling was initiated by a  windows person.
(33) recent forum  posts developing, building, and testing.
it's a lousy kernel with a bunch of truly awful libs piled on top, with  the same old cruddy mongrel mix of daemons found in half a dozen better  implementations of 'nix.
sco takes out a law suite against linux.
linux has nothing  even approaching the object dacl model implemented in nt os's.
i've never heard of it.
it also picked up a whole new strategy for its mobile devices.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 10:55:20 est jun. 25  2003 bah.
what he/she is talking about.
comment, heh) i would say to you people, microsoft is fooling you into thinking you know a lot about the real world of computing.
percentage-wise, over 75 percent of all server-based breaches occurred on linux  systems during this time period, while windows systems were responsible for  just 15 percent of breaches.
(3) - hacking mail password yahoo hotmail gmail etc (1) announcements new now you can receive wininsider.com news notification thru msn or windows messenger.
yeah and how about the worms that only affected windows servers hm?
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 9:27:29  est jun. 26 2003 it would appear that you pushed the height just a little  higher.
it's also a matter of exposure.
they think because they know ipchains or how to recompile their kernel, they are qualified to talk trash about the nt world.
here in the real world linux is only  grabbing a share of a shrinking 'nix market.
let me ask the linux folks this?
to write a comment as anonymous leave name field blank.
how do you honestly include this statement in your post  and try to make it believable?
there are few hacks on tru 64 and unicos, but that doesn't make them secure by any stretch.
the ?linux community? has always operated like they were a law unto themselves, and basically has felt free to operate within their own self-made laws, including stealing anyone?s intellectual property whenever the mood strikes them.
in the *nix world there are many trusted os and hardened os e.g.  openbsd, hardened gentoo, trustix.
the same microsoft hating losers who got their sorry butts by microsoft in  the os2 wars have now turned masse to the intellectual property stealing linux,  in the hope that they can take microsoft down this time.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 19:58:27 est jun. 8  2003 code red, comon, it's been a while since that happened.
how do it the b (2) - help colour msn screen name (33) - music cd's no longer play (1) - windows media player 10 (1) - a footballers dream (1) - work in france - french topic (1) - email blocked!
anyhow, have a look into linux or unix.
oh please you know-nothing little troll.
for years we in the windows world have been  silently taking it from you fools.
this is not a problem limited to windows and has nothing to do with the dacl system but rather the inherent flaw of the message passing system used by all windowing subsystems.
anyway, i have nothing against windows other than it being a bit pricey, but these type of statistics are just meaningless garbage.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 19:06:06 est jun. 23 2003 ohhh, the poooor little loonix user doesn't like being on the receiving end.
look it up, and read my  friend cause it did, one of my clients with red hat 8 and a oracle9i database  solution was taken down just like everyone else.
linux is after all a kernel and a  distro is merely built around it, while windows is a complete os.
okay, since you clearly  didn't understand what i said in my first point, i will ask you again, how  easily can you configure advanced security options across multiple systems in a  large environment?
google quickly gaining on microsoft in lobbying spending while microsoft has needed all the help it could hire in washington, d.c., after its antitrust debacle many years ago, google is quickly catching up to it as a tech power to be reckoned with in the nation's capital.
linux iso dot org for free linux/unix isos.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous , on 14:05:49 est jun. 19 2003 isn't it true that it is because of the "object based dacl system" that allows malicious programmers to create viruses that use escalation of priveledge attacks using the very same "security" feature as an "exploit"?
you  want to talk bottom-half handlers and irp?s?
next day, sco get their web site viciously attacked and brought down by persons ?unknown? ; wink , wink.
this is even more impressive for windows if you consider that  the installed base for windows is far greater than that of the porous,  pathetic, crappy toy operating system called linux.
anyone who thinks the nasty, evil anti-capitalist  members of the ?linux community?
the law suite from sco is just the beginning.
microsoft's server sales keep going up, even in these depressed times for it spending, and linux is a joke on the desktop.
how do you honestly include this statement in your post and try to make it believable?
in  administration it is much easier to use windows ad to setup a network in a  distributed solution than linux.
the  company, which has been tracking server attacks since 1995, now oversees a  database containing over 220,000 individual attacks and over 7000 hacker  groups.
for years we in the windows world have been silently taking it from you fools.
mobile news rss feed updated wininsider services
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 6:52:10 est jun. 28 2003 i enjoy this.
since you obviously dont  know much about the sql slammer worm, and that it did affect sql, not just  mssql then that sort of negates the point of your post.
you see, most linux users, admins, etc., know nothing about the enterprise  windows world.
people talking about the merits of  windows can bring out facts, figures, and explain why thinking windows is  inherently insecure is a misconception.
comment, heh) i would say to you people, microsoft is  fooling you into thinking you know a lot about the real world of computing.
sco  takes out a law suite against linux.
and fourth, frank stallone.
the pro-linux side refutes with : "come on don't me laugh.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 9:54:28 est jun. 23 2003 wow!
and yet continue to post like you do.
[last] write a comment name: you are not log-in.
the system tray is a ui component that is part of  the winstation of the currently logged on user and does not run in the context  of anything other than the user.
oh  please you know-nothing little troll.
top it all off with a truly horrendous x -window subsystem, a buttload of utterly craptacular window managers, each with its own crapalistic set of armature hour libraries and you have the making of the most overrated os in history that survives purely on the hype generated by the flaming liberal techno-weenie press and a bunch of uncompetitive companies that have no real answer to wintel.
there is more hatred, evil,  stupidity, nasty mindedness, sheer bloody mindedness and propagation of hatred  against america, freedom and free enterprise on slashdot and other linux  fanatic sites than any other site on the planet!
anonymous - by: anonymous - by:
and how easy you can specify a policy for 100's of client pc unix?
well, i am here to  say shut the f up.
sci is going to force the linux thieves to regurgitate all  the code they have been stealing from unix over the years.
i dont think so, how come only ms sql servers were affected by sql slammer?
furthermore, ms has been working a lot harder as of late to shake the security perception problem.
use acces controll lists (acl, looks al lot like dacl  probably cause ms ripped it) or somthing, their a lots of security  implementations for unix available wich are far more sophisticated then dacl.
beta launch (95) - hotmail goes international (13) - hotmail goes mobile in asia (89) - pdc 2008:
news page | personalize | search | site map | favorites | write to us | search advance news search linux not as secure as windows server and your comments... contribute extras message box forums members community overview members list members' tools remember me your membership benefits at a glance join now sign-out about this site overview new to us?
the receiving end of what??
don't make me laugh, creep!!
you are obvioiusly an  incredibly ignorant or stupid individual by posting "even stealing code  from sco" has not been proven, one way or the other.
nix system code before you knew  what a computer was, so don?t assume you have even half the knowledge i do.
anyway, i have nothing against windows other than it  being a bit pricey, but these type of statistics are just meaningless garbage.
the law suite from sco is  just the beginning.
percentage-wise, over 75 percent of all server-based breaches occurred on linux systems during this time period, while windows systems were responsible for just 15 percent of breaches.
you are the model for which all other admins must take after.
did not take down the sco web site is smoking  something much stronger than what al asahaf, the iraqi information minister was  smoking!
linux and unix dont have dacl security?
next time, do your research dude.
i would argue that most unix/linux people were at one point windows admins but who became bored with the simplistic nature of windows-based systems.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 8:47:10 est jun. 24 2003 wow!
talk about the cattle calling the pot black.
in  may 2003 alone, 19,208 successful breaches worldwide were recorded against  linux-based corporate and government systems, while only 3,801 breaches were  recorded against similarly-oriented microsoft windows server systems.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 14:29:56 est jun. 10 2003
monthly newsletter email: name (optional): subscribe unsubscribe services msn alerts receive wininsider.com news notification thru msn or windows messenger.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 0:25:35 est jun. 10 2003 i would  have to agree with the anonymous who was defending ad.
can you enable a directory integrated certificate auto enrollment solution for  users and computers?
how easily can you configure secure ddns with bind 9?
liam - by: anas - by:
i dont think that you can fit a suite into what sco is doing.
use acces controll lists (acl, looks al lot like dacl probably cause ms ripped it) or somthing, their a lots of security implementations for unix available wich are far more sophisticated then dacl.
:p [ reply report ] posted by clams, on  16:57:06 est mar. 15 2004
[ reply report ] posted by brian finniff, on 17:38:18 est  mar. 19 2004 you jerk.
expect a whole new slew of law suites from hundreds of  firms whose code has been scooped up and illegally appropriated by the linux  hover machine!
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 20:32:00 est jun. 30 2003 this is all a bit ridiculous.
make sure you stay in your stupid, drug induced, airy-fairy slashdot/linux world and don't come back, ok?
i have met has half a clue
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on  6:52:10 est jun. 28 2003 i enjoy this.
top it all off with a truly horrendous x -window  subsystem, a buttload of utterly craptacular window managers, each with its own  crapalistic set of armature hour libraries and you have the making of the most  overrated os in history that survives purely on the hype generated by the  flaming liberal techno-weenie press and a bunch of uncompetitive companies that  have no real answer to wintel.
make  sure you stay in your stupid, drug induced, airy-fairy slashdot/linux world and  don't come back, ok?
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on  19:06:06 est jun. 23 2003 ohhh, the poooor little loonix user doesn't like  being on the receiving end.
windows isn't perfect, but the object based dacl security model implemented in nt is superior to simpler rights based model used in linux.
" hey loser, the biggest moron club on the planet right now is the  semi-educated, vicious attack dogs of the so-called "linux community"  who hide behind the bulletin boards on the internet to spew out their venom.
way i see it, the pathetic "linux community" is made up of sweaty  palmed, anti-social, intellectually challenged, morons who can't get a date,  are terrible at sports and use the internet as a means to kid themselves that  they are "big" men, and try to make up for their inadequacies.
send this news  to friend discuses article in forum microsoft hails chicago datacenter opening (3) toyota to supply hybrid technology to mazda (1) microsoft is shit magnet (86) msn.com
how easily can opportunistic ipsec be enabled for 100's of machines in a linux environment?
it's a lousy system, and you know  what, people are beginning to realize it.
for a time i was extremely bitter at microsoft for leading me to believe through their simple exams that i know much about computers and networks.
oh, and in case your tiny little brain hasn't noticed, you are caught in a stupid, mindless little flame war.
the app can chose to a. examine the security context of the  calling process and/or b. ignore the call.
you mean the part of the web where  everyone is uniformly brain dead and have their heads in the sand and think  linux is the magic elixir that makes people 20 feet tall and solves all the  world's problems?
linux is after all a kernel and a distro is merely built around it, while windows is a complete os.
they understand nothing about nt internals.
linux, windows. get a real os.
there are simply more unix, linux and bsd servers exposed to the internet than windows imo.
netagent popup killer for ie, news alerts, pop3 email alerts, spell-check,  word definitions, anda lot more...
hp said wednesday it plans to acquire palm for $1.2 billion, or $5.70 per share, which amoun...
here in the real world linux is only grabbing a share of a shrinking 'nix market.
there are 56 comments made.
sorry, i should have put down was the  truth, closed, proprietary and monopolistic.
how  easily can opportunistic ipsec be enabled for 100's of machines in a linux  environment?
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 19:58:27 est jun. 8 2003 code red, comon, it's been a while since that happened.
but again, most linux users, like the rest of the unwashed masses, know nothing of nt internals or security.
well the chickens are coming home to roost now.
people talking about the merits of windows can bring out facts, figures, and explain why thinking windows is inherently insecure is a misconception.
this is in sharp contrast  to the strong windows system which were only breached 15 % of all servers  breached.
oh, and i was writing ?
furthermore, windows-based systems were found to be far more resilient than linux-based systems during the iraq war months, from march to may 2003, the report says, a time of increased hacking activity.
" gotta love that fanboyism.
it still amazes me how people like post how linux users are (from  above) microsoft hating, rabid, hateful, linux fundamentalists and fanatics!!
there is more hatred, evil, stupidity, nasty mindedness, sheer bloody mindedness and propagation of hatred against america, freedom and free enterprise on slashdot and other linux fanatic sites than any other site on the planet!
logos curiously, this will come as a surprise to some people, but according to a report by the security experts at mi2g, open source post boy linux is losing the security fight, big time, to windows server.
in other words, everything i've been saying about windows, linux and security was not only true, but evolving in a wonderfully predictable way.
:p [ reply report ] posted by clams, on 16:57:06 est mar. 15 2004
guess what, you don't know a damn thing, you are just a silly little end-user who thinks they have a clue because they can read a man page.
this is even more impressive for windows if you consider that the installed base for windows is far greater than that of the porous, pathetic, crappy toy operating system called linux.
[ reply report ] pages:
second, there isn't a coherent "trustworthy  computing" initiative in the open source community.
you will definitely learn something.
they know nothing about ad.
maybe he does have a point about the distributed networks being easier, but windows more secure then linux, come on dont make me laugh and stop fooling ur selves, how come cisco routers aren't running embedded windows ce if windows is so secure and scalable.
yep, you read that right:
not one useless linux user or admin
monthly  newsletter receive wininsider.com news notification thru msn or windows messenger.
if you ever get around to actually learing linux (which i doubt as it appears that your only an ms drone), then post something intelligently.
your comment about ipchains demonstrates how stupid you are, iptables is now used.
furthermore, ms has been working a lot harder as of  late to shake the security perception problem.
netagent popup killer for ie, news alerts, pop3 email alerts, spell-check, word definitions, anda lot more...
the security experts say there are several main reasons: first, most linux servers are improperly configured and do not come with decent default security configurations.
the fact is, linux security is a myth created by people who have an intellectual investment in propagating the myth of "'nix" superiority, just as netware folks try do with their platform.
or better yet, why dont you go over to /.
servers exposed to the internet than windows imo.
it's a lousy kernel with a bunch of truly awful libs piled on top, with the same old cruddy mongrel mix of daemons found in half a dozen better implementations of 'nix.
i just love all  these paper mcse's and their surveys.
been fun reading postings from such individuals that support an open minded and competitive environment.
and from the obvious maturity of linux zealots, we can see why linux is losing it's edge.
both windows and linux and vms can all be hardened.
gosling made the announcement on his blog, saying he resigned from the company on april 2.
what a  brilliant, intelligent and insightful post.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 0:25:35 est jun. 10 2003 i would have to agree with the anonymous who was defending ad.
sci is going to force the linux thieves to regurgitate all the code they have been stealing from unix over the years.
you apparently dont seem to know what 'trolling' is.
third, because linux  is becoming more popular in the server world, it's a more obvious target.
and like al quaeda, you are going to get your sorry butts kicked over and over again!
(33) recent forum posts - developing, building, and testing.
or for someone too scared to try unix, go with bsd.
what exactly are  basing "linux sticks to high heaven" on?
i would argue that  most unix/linux people were at one point windows admins but who became bored  with the simplistic nature of windows-based systems.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 9:27:29 est jun. 26 2003 it would appear that you pushed the height just a little higher.
[ reply report ] posted by anonymous, on 12:44:50 est jun. 17 2003 so, next time use linucks or winduckxx [ reply report ] posted by anonymous , on 6:21:11 est jun. 23 2003 so... even after stealing code from sco, linux still stinks to high heaven, totting up to the tune of 75% (a staggering figure) of all server based breaches worldwide!
no, i?m  not going to call names at windows people (except for the aforementioned  ?
you want to talk bottom-half handlers and irp?s?
[ reply report ] posted  byanonymous, on 20:45:29 est jun. 10 2003
i made up that last bit about atomic supermen.
this can potentially be used to attack a process running in a privileged context from a non privileged process.
next day, sco get their web site  viciously attacked and brought down by persons ?unknown? ; wink , wink.
now you can tap into the rich functionality of netagent to work for your site and add other rich services such as search and notifications to enhance your site!
can you enable a directory integrated certificate auto enrollment solution for users and computers?
[ reply report ] posted byanonymous, on 9:38:25 est jun. 26 2003 i think that you mean 'law suit'.
anonymous news comments - microsoft hails chicago datacenter opening (3) - toyota to supply hybrid technology to mazda (1) - microsoft is shit magnet (86) - msn.com
by the time those seasoned legal fighters from utah are through with linux, you clowns will be looking to pakistan to find someone else to take on microsoft!
but again, most  linux users, like the rest of the unwashed masses, know nothing of nt internals  or security.
only after spending time in the unix/linux world did i understand that there is a whole other world of details happily hidden from the average mcse in a gui world populated by little check boxes and drop-down menus.
i dont think so, how come only ms sql servers were affected by sql  slammer?
i mean come  on, why does the system tray run as system, when it is a visual item displayed  in a "user" context?
windows 7 rocks (16) - plus!
sql slammer was a ms problem so stfu.
additional comment guidelines.
anyone who thinks the nasty, evil anti-capitalist members of the ?linux community?
many black hats don't even bother with windows exploits, while others specialize in them.
didn?t think so, so step off.
and why are big animation movies like final fantasy (sgi irix) and dinosaurs (amiga) not renderd on windows servers?
-porous, pathetic, crappy toy operating system called linux- after reading this statement, it's obvioius that you have never even used linux or don't know how.
good riddance, that's what i say!!
windows isn't perfect, but the object based  dacl security model implemented in nt is superior to simpler rights based model  used in linux.
the guys with the better  rootkits and zero day exploits aren't the ones defacing and being included in  these statistics.
saying "linux" is  lumping a large amount of distros together, many of which do not put security  as a top priority.
second, there isn't a coherent "trustworthy computing" initiative in the open source community.
and it's not exactly the cream of the crop attacking these servers either.
but rumors are no sure...
this is not a problem limited to  windows and has nothing to do with the dacl system but rather the inherent flaw  of the message passing system used by all windowing subsystems.
since you obviously dont know much about the sql slammer worm, and that it did affect sql, not just mssql then that sort of negates the point of your post.
in the *nix world there are many trusted os and hardened os e.g. openbsd, hardened gentoo, trustix.
but i doubt that you can find your way.
the system tray is a ui component that is part of the winstation of the currently logged on user and does not run in the context of anything other than the user.
please stop, i'm laughing out loud now.
(thats slashdot.org) and post instead of hiding behind these windows sites.
well  the chickens are coming home to roost now.
so you go look at unix performance, and unix security and then talk.
next time, do your research  dude.
they think because they know ipchains or how to recompile their  kernel, they are qualified to talk trash about the nt world.
you mean the part of the web where everyone is uniformly brain dead and have their heads in the sand and think linux is the magic elixir that makes people 20 feet tall and solves all the world's problems?
most of the attacks against windows servers initiated, organized and carried out by microsoft hating, rabid, hateful, linux fundamentalists and fanatics!!- i think i'm leaning to the stupid side for you.
and  fourth, frank stallone.