under the expanded program, 160,000 sales channel partners will get access to intel's software kitsfor linux, which include supporting software, tools for...
every operating system portrays itself as powerful, able to leap tall  buildings and applications in single strides, able to weather the storms of... view the abstract linux security corner the linux  command line by william e. shots, jr  this resource provides a complete  introduction to thelinux command line.
more... red hat's mrg makes advances in real-time computing
more... more by this author security holes in linux kernel an attacker could exploit three vulnerabilities in the linux kernel to cause a denial of service and launch malicious code...
linux  will move more...
the  typical productivity apps (e.g., openoffice) are very simple to move to as well.
discover what happens when you press the enter key on thecommand line.
discover what happens when you press the  enter key on thecommand line.
explore how the combination of kvm, red hat... view the abstract browse directory
more... more by this author perceptions: is linux suitable for business desktops?
more... gnu/linux ai & alife how-to to, various ai related software libraries, applications, etc.
explore how the combination of kvm, red hat... view the  abstract
grsecurity is a collection of security patches for the linux kernel.
more... as netware falters, novell pins hopes on linux novell's ximian buy  could spark its comeback.
by john h terpstra, ceo, primastasys inc. two respondents) (fees levied to access servers)
more... ibm  aims to improve linux on power chips ibm is getting serious about running  linux on its power family of chips.
explore the process of expansion, and examine  several interesting and complex...
more... as netware falters, novell pins hopes on linux novell's ximian buy could spark its comeback.
explore the process of expansion, and examine several interesting and complex features of its shell.
this resource provides a complete...
move company to desktop linux mission in front of her  for the next year:
novell has  to eat a big bowl of its own dog food, and anderson has to make sure it's tasty  for her users internally...
adam tumas, regional manager for the ibm virtualization innovation... more... more by this author a new windows vs. linux view the tco arguments surroundinglinux and windows need to include a realistic assessment oflinux interoperability challenges and costs...
by  john h terpstra, ceo, primastasys inc. two respondents) (fees levied to access servers)
novell posted $10 million inlinux...
linux based cluster solution search: search linux vme how-to shows the embedded system community how to run linux on their vmebus pentium and other pci local bus based vmebus processor designs...
more... linux ipv6 how-to the goal of the linux ipv6 how-to is to answer both basic and advanced questions about ipv6 onthe linux operating system.
more... linux computer -- cheap!
the result is a modular architectured it infrastructure solution that serves the... view the abstract troubleshooting made easy in linux by global knowledge service does not listen or perform?linux is noted for being rock solid, stable, and easy to manage but not as user friendly.
that work on thegnu/linux platform...  more... gnu/linux pre-installation checklist
view the abstract ericom accessnow html5 rdp client - web access to vmware view desktops by ericom software can gain instant browser-based access to full-fledged vmware view desktops from any pc, mac,linux, chromebook, ipad, android, and other devices, e.g., tablet or smartphone, using an html5 browser supporting the websocket protocol.
at the microsoft web developer's summit, held in redmond, wash., last week,  microsoft announced their efforts to...
by jack loftus expansion of the ibm virtualization innovation center for hardware has a distinctlinux flavor, including an online "how to" guide for porting fromwindows, unix or linux to linux on power5.
they are also certified torun red hat enterprise linux, suse linux enterprise server, windows server and vmware.
it  enhances thesecurity functionality of the kernel including adding a  role-based...
more... gresecurity on linux by  james turnbull how does  grsecurity improvelinux security?
novell announced a  6.5% revenue jump in the last quarter and that it had sliced its year-over-year  losses in half.
big blue is hiring scores of programmers to  makelinux run better on its high-end processors, which are used in its iseries  and pseries boxes...
more... more by this author expert on linux vs. windows: 'is roast beef a threat to a salad?' writer and windows guru mark minasi waxes the linux alternative, security and changes in how companies are buying software...
more... intel globalizes linux pc program designed to make it simpler for chinese and indiancomputer manufacturers to sell linux on pcs.
move the company's 5,000 user desktops tolinux.
wal-mart and linspire inc., thesub-$500 laptop is also a reality – and  it runslinux...
it enhances thesecurity functionality of the kernel including adding a role-based...
this how-to will provide the reader with enough information to...
this frequently updated  document provides a checklist for installinggnu/linux as well as hints and tips  along the way.
that work on thegnu/linux platform...
more... more by this author a new windows vs. linux view the tco arguments surroundinglinux and windows need to include a realistic  assessment oflinux interoperability challenges and costs...
by  jack  loftus expansion of the ibm virtualization innovation center for hardware  has a distinctlinux flavor, including an online "how to" guide for  porting fromwindows, unix or linux to linux on power5.
translations in japanese, dutch, turkish and french are  accessible from section 1.3...
the typical productivity apps (e.g., openoffice) are very simple to move to as well.
view the abstract the value of kvm by red hat & ibm  most demanding workloads and  achieve top performance, scalabality and low costs on windows orlinux operating  environments.
typical users usually don't have much problem moving to a linux desktop,  particularly akde-based one that looks a lot like a windows desktop.
microsoft is seeking to keep you on board for the duration.
more... linux needs stronger network file systems
solution search: search linux  vme how-to shows the embedded system community how to run linux on their  vmebus pentium and other pci local bus based vmebus processor designs...
more... 1mage on linux this case study  (pdf) describes how 1mage installed thered hat linux version of its document  management system in a variety of industries, including manufacturing,  distribution, public libraries, building materials, and energy and the
more... more by this author linux advanced routing & traffic control how-to a very hands-on  approach to iproute2, traffic shaping and a bit of netfilter...
it is widely recognized as one of the most easy-to-usedesktop linux distributions for novice users.
this frequently updated document provides a checklist for installinggnu/linux as well as hints and tips along the way.
linux will move more...
wal-mart and linspire inc., thesub-$500 laptop is also a reality – and it runslinux...
the first two components are available  immediately for production environments, butgrid computing was released as a  technology "preview" and will be...
more... microsoft's iis 7 will aid php developers' windows deployments by w. jason gilmore
more... more by this author perceptions: is linux  suitable for business desktops?
novell announced a 6.5% revenue jump in the last quarter and that it had sliced its year-over-year losses in half.
more... linux ipv6 how-to the goal of the linux ipv6 how-to is to answer  both basic and advanced questions about ipv6 onthe linux operating system.
more... microsoft's iis 7 will aid php  developers' windows deployments
view the abstract ericom  accessnow html5 rdp client - web access to vmware view desktops by ericom  software  can gain instant browser-based access to full-fledged vmware view  desktops from any pc, mac,linux, chromebook, ipad, android, and other devices,  e.g., tablet or smartphone, using an html5 browser supporting the websocket  protocol.
view the abstract the value of kvm by red hat & ibm most demanding workloads and achieve top performance, scalabality and low costs on windows orlinux operating environments.
do you develop your php applications on windows but deploy on linux?
the cost of acquisition  of a completelinux based solution ( server) is much lower than an equivalent  microsoft windows solution.
more... more by  this author ibm center gives partners a linux playground
by  w. jason gilmore do you develop your php applications on windows but deploy on linux?
more... more by this author ibm center gives partners a linux playground
this  how-to will provide the reader with enough information to...
the cost of linux support is much lower than a microsoft windows (nt4 / 2000) based solution...
the cost of linux support is much lower than a  microsoft windows (nt4 / 2000) based solution...
more... migration training/support costs by bernard golden while maintaining quality?
more... novell cio has mission:
more... suse white papers the linux command line by william e. shots, jr  provides a complete  introduction to thelinux command line.
...  more... 64-bit levels playing field for linux, windows linux may  still lag behind windows in the 32-bit world, but as enterprises shift to  64-bit computing, the playing field levels, according to this commentary.
more... gresecurity on linux by james turnbull how does grsecurity improvelinux security?
one analyst says that combininglinux and netware in the enterprise could create a powerful combination...
more... more by this author linux advanced routing & traffic control how-to a very hands-on approach to iproute2, traffic shaping and a bit of netfilter...
more... more by this  author expert on linux vs. windows: 'is roast beef a threat to a salad?' writer and windows guru mark minasi waxes the linux alternative, security  and changes in how companies are buying software...
more... migration training/support costs by   bernard golden while maintaining quality?
they are  also certified torun red hat enterprise linux, suse linux enterprise server,  windows server and vmware.
at the microsoft web developer's summit, held in redmond, wash., last week, microsoft announced their efforts to...
the first two components are available immediately for production environments, butgrid computing was released as a technology "preview" and will be...
novell has to eat a big bowl of its own dog food, and anderson has to make sure it's tasty for her users internally...
zero clientsupport and maintenance...
more... ibm aims to improve linux on power chips ibm is getting serious about running linux on its power family of chips.
in this  article the author examined the many choices availablefor linux network file  systems, while exposing the fact that linux still faces significant innovation  challenges...
choosing the right virtualization platform can help you lay the foundation  forcloud computing.
more... gnu/linux ai & alife how-to to, various ai related software  libraries, applications, etc.
the cost of acquisition of a completelinux based solution ( server) is much lower than an equivalent microsoft windows solution.
more... suse white papers the linux command line by william e. shots, jr provides a complete introduction to thelinux command line.
every operating system portrays itself as powerful, able to leap tall buildings and applications in single strides, able to weather the storms of... view the abstract linux security corner the linux command line by william e. shots, jr this resource provides a complete introduction to thelinux command line.
the result is a modular architectured it  infrastructure solution that serves the... view the abstract troubleshooting made easy in linux by global knowledge  service does not listen  or perform?linux is noted for being rock solid, stable, and easy to manage but  not as user friendly.
by  pam derringer,  news writer advanced messaging, real-time computing and grid computing to  red hat enterprise linux 5, or rhel 5.
more... hardy heron hardy heron is the code name for version 8.04 of ubuntu, the open source debian- based linux distribution.
by pam derringer, news writer advanced messaging, real-time computing and grid computing to red hat enterprise linux 5, or rhel 5.
view the abstract sun blade 6000 modular system from oracle by oracle corporation blades are optimized to runoracle enterprise linux, oracle solaris and oracle vm.
more... novell cuts losses thanks to linux see, you can make money fromlinux; novell is living proof.
more... novell  cio has mission:
the major...  more... more by this author security holes in  linux kernel an attacker could exploit three vulnerabilities in the linux  kernel to cause a denial of service and launch malicious code...
translations in japanese, dutch, turkish and french are accessible from section 1.3...
under the expanded program, 160,000 sales channel partners will  get access to intel's software kitsfor linux, which include supporting  software, tools for...
choosing the right virtualization platform can help you lay the foundation forcloud computing.
typical users usually don't have much problem moving to a linux desktop, particularly akde-based one that looks a lot like a windows desktop.
canonical software, the sponsor forubuntu, has... more... collective linux development model will be tough to beat, report says the linux kernel would cost $1.4 billion to build from scratch today, and a typicallinux distro, $1.2 billion, according to an updatedlinux foundation study.
big blue is hiring scores of programmers to makelinux run better on its high-end processors, which are used in its iseries and pseries boxes...
explore the process of expansion, and examine several interesting and complex...
one analyst says that combininglinux and netware in  the enterprise could create a powerful combination...
this resource provides a complete... view the abstract sun blade 6000 modular system from oracle by oracle corporation  blades are  optimized to runoracle enterprise linux, oracle solaris and oracle vm.
it is widely recognized as one of  the most easy-to-usedesktop linux distributions for novice users.
more... hardy heron hardy heron is the code name for version 8.04 of ubuntu, the  open source debian- based linux distribution.
in this article the author examined the many choices availablefor linux network file systems, while exposing the fact that linux still faces significant innovation challenges...
adam tumas, regional manager for the ibm virtualization innovation...
move company to desktop linux mission in front of her for the next year:
the conclusion... more... linux needs stronger network file systems
explore the process of expansion, and examine  several interesting and complex features of its shell.
canonical  software, the sponsor forubuntu, has...  more... collective linux  development model will be tough to beat, report says the linux kernel  would cost $1.4 billion to build from scratch today, and a typicallinux distro,  $1.2 billion, according to an updatedlinux foundation study.
more... gnu/linux pre-installation checklist
more... 1mage on linux this case study (pdf) describes how 1mage installed thered hat linux version of its document management system in a variety of industries, including manufacturing, distribution, public libraries, building materials, and energy and the... more... 64-bit levels playing field for linux, windows linux may still lag behind windows in the 32-bit world, but as enterprises shift to 64-bit computing, the playing field levels, according to this commentary.