a: i agree that various software solutions make running windows games under linux much easier than it used to be.
it depends on what  people want to do with it.
a: i agree that various software solutions make running windows games under  linux much easier than it used to be.
these work fine for a growing number of windows games.
but anyway, since i write both questions and answers...
q: hey, weren't you one of those wacky google's summer of code guys, one  of the 400-out-of-9000 chosen hackers ?
if you start explaining this, the fact that linux is the kernel's name, and that different vendors choose to ship linux with their choice of software to make a "linux distribution", etc., half of the audience has already left.
i can't make xyz work on linux.
q: you seem to concentrate on gnome and ubuntu.
i love and use a lot of kde apps (if all the efforts put  about gnome vs kde trolls could be invested in nicely integrating kde apps in  gnome and the other way around, i'd be really happy).
this is a good solution for casual  gamers.
all right, i might start by saying that, as you have probably noticed, this website isn't really meant for you :)
any hard feelings about kde and other distributions ?
i'm no linux expert, nor some sect leader, and i don't want to evangelise:
obviously, the website's name is more straightforward than this, but hey, should i have bought whylinuxmaybebetterinmanycases.net ?
for people who want to try out linux, it's already a little confusing that there are several "versions/flavors" of it.
like many other people, i have lots of things to do, and while i'm glad to help out when i can and have time for it, i am sure many people out there in forums or irc channels will be more than glad toanswer your questions!
a: of course it does, i agree perfectly.
i'm a member of ubuntu, i have been  using linux since ~1998, wrote a few pocket books (in french) about some open  source software (firefox, linux, etc.).
and by the way, this "q:" is not a question, since it doesn't  have a question mark.
but jean-baptiste rouquier also did half of the job.
why linux is better a small faq for linux geeks all right, i might start by saying that, as you have probably noticed, this  website isn't really meant for you :)
any hard feelings about  kde and other distributions ?
you probably won't find any new information here, and you might just as well keep on reading slashdot !
people heard of  "linux", not "gnu/linux", and this kind of geeky quarrel is  probably one of the things that prevent "normal" people from  understanding what this is all about.
but i'm trying to fix that, i just  ordered the "understand the linux kernel" book (by the time you read  this, i may have finished reading it, understood all there is to know about  linux and want to create my own version, which i'll undoubtedly call  "manux" --
and if you're a native english speaker, please report proof of my bad english to the same address, so that i can correct my mistakes.
2) give a few reasons why linux is a really good system, and why most of the time it is a pretty good choice.
people heard of "linux", not "gnu/linux", and this kind of geeky quarrel is probably one of the things that prevent "normal" people from understanding what this is all about.
q: hey, weren't you one of those wacky google's summer of code guys, one of the 400-out-of-9000 chosen hackers ?
:-p q: linux is hardly a full os like windows, it's just the kernel.
this is voluntary simplification.
and by the way, this "q:" is not a question, since it doesn't have a question mark.
needless to  say, feel free to send me other screenshots.
you might notice i have an item  about amarok, don't hesitate to send me further suggestions for other kde (and  gnome!)
for the same reasons, and for  the sake of simplicity, i don't speak about the various bsds and the fact that  many of thebig servers run bsd and not linux.
but i just got lucky: i sent 8000 of those 9000 projects  propositions, and one of them was accepted.
and if you're a native english speaker, please report proof of my bad english  to the same address, so that i can correct my mistakes.
q: why are you saying an os is better than another?
i love and use a lot of kde apps (if all the efforts put about gnome vs kde trolls could be invested in nicely integrating kde apps in gnome and the other way around, i'd be really happy).
a: on a website for advanced linux users, detail like this would matter,  however i am wanting to keep things fairly simple.
huh, next question please.
okay, i got lucky twice (2005, 2006).
q: i'd like to contribute by translating the website to my language, are  you interested?
this is a good solution for casual gamers.
you probably won't find any new  information here, and you might just as well keep on reading slashdot !
pass the rod, please.
2) give a few reasons why linux is a really good system, and why  most of the time it is a pretty good choice.
i chose to mention 4 of them that have been and still are among the most  popular, i think it is a reasonable choice.
it's meant for windows (or mac) users trying to figure out what "linux" is, what it looks like, and see whether there's anything good for them in it.
and i'm working on it.
a: there are many, many distributions out there, and any limited subset couldn't possibly satisfy everyone.
q: what the hell do you know about linux anyway ?
q: you said gamers shouldn't switch to linux, but don't you know about wine, cedega?
q: i'd like to contribute by translating the website to my language, are you interested?
why let users believe otherwise ?
needless to say, feel free to send me other screenshots.
however, note that i used the expression "hardcore gamers",  the ones who buy the most recent games and overclock their cpus to get better  performance; i doubt that these are willing to make that kind of compromise.
however, note that i used the expression "hardcore gamers", the ones who buy the most recent games and overclock their cpus to get better performance; i doubt that these are willing to make that kind of compromise.
but anyway, since i write both questions and answers...  oh boy, i really am stupid.
i'm just an extremely happy user and developer of linux, trying to make more people get to know about linux.
okay, i got lucky twice (2005,  2006).
a: i'm sorry, but my email address should not be considered as an unlimited linux support alias :-)
for people who want to try out linux, it's  already a little confusing that there are several "versions/flavors"  of it.
but let's be clear about what i'm trying to say here: 1) let windows/mac os x users know something else exists out there.
i'm just an extremely happy user and developer of linux, trying to make more  people get to know about linux.
my screenshots mostly  show ubuntu because that's the distribution i use and develop for.
like many other people, i have lots of things to do,  and while i'm glad to help out when i can and have time for it, i am sure many  people out there in forums or irc channels will be more than glad toanswer your  questions!
q: hey, aren't you that wacky pcjacking guy ?
for the same reasons, and for the sake of simplicity, i don't speak about the various bsds and the fact that many of thebig servers run bsd and not linux.
if  you start explaining this, the fact that linux is the kernel's name, and that  different vendors choose to ship linux with their choice of software to make a  "linux distribution", etc., half of the audience has already left.
a: saint linus please forgive me :)
this is not a website for people already using linux as their main os (unless  they want to help out making the site better).
q: you said gamers shouldn't switch to linux, but don't you know about  wine, cedega?
i'm a member of ubuntu, i have been using linux since ~1998, wrote a few pocket books (in french) about some open source software (firefox, linux, etc.).
it depends on what people want to do with it.
but i just got lucky: i sent 8000 of those 9000 projects propositions, and one of them was accepted.
but let's be clear about what i'm  trying to say here: 1) let windows/mac os x users know something else exists  out there.
a: there are many, many distributions out there, and any limited subset  couldn't possibly satisfy everyone.
i chose to mention 4 of them that have been and still are among the most popular, i think it is a reasonable choice.
this is not a website for people already using linux as their main os (unless they want to help out making the site better).
q: please add linux distribution xyz to your page on installing linux.
next year i'm gonna open source my automatic project generator.
you might notice i have an item about amarok, don't hesitate to send me further suggestions for other kde (and gnome!)
a: on a website for advanced linux users, detail like this would matter, however i am wanting to keep things fairly simple.
feel free to drop me an email at ideas@whylinuxisbetter.net.
q: it's gnu/linux, not linux, stupid!
q: man, your english is lousy.
why let  users believe otherwise ?
for the same reason, i write  "openoffice" instead of "openoffice.org" and so forth.
a: i'm sorry, but my email address should not be considered as an unlimited  linux support alias :-)
my screenshots mostly show ubuntu because that's the distribution i use and develop for.
oh boy, i really am stupid.
for the same reason, i write "openoffice" instead of "openoffice.org" and so forth.
obviously, the website's name is  more straightforward than this, but hey, should i have bought whylinuxmaybebetterinmanycases.net ?
but i'm trying to fix that, i just ordered the "understand the linux kernel" book (by the time you read this, i may have finished reading it, understood all there is to know about linux and want to create my own version, which i'll undoubtedly call "manux" --
q: hey, aren't you that wacky gimp-texturize guy ?
a: probably not as much as i should!
it's meant for windows (or mac) users  trying to figure out what "linux" is, what it looks like, and see  whether there's anything good for them in it.
and a google search is always a good place to start.