wired.com © 2012 condé nast digital.
windows apps on linux
however, adam pash over at lifehacker has put togethera much better tutorial showing you how to install kde ubuntu with andlinux.
subscribe to wired renew give a gift customer service welcome to the wired how-to wiki, a collaborative site dedicated to the burgeoning diy culture.
if not, here are some options for getting linux apps on your vista or xp desktop.
run linux applications in windows from wired how-to wiki jump to: navigation, search two new  best friends linux fans who feel the need to run a windows app or two can take advantage  ofwine, which enables most programs written for windows to run on the linux  desktop.
tip: andlinux lets you choose how much system memory you want to  dedicate to linux.
as for why you'd want to do this, there are several linux apps that are  much better -- and with more advanced features -- than their windows  counterparts.
check out andlinux, a complete ubuntu linux distribution built to run on all modern, 32-bit windows operating systems like xp and vista.
it provides a good deal of linux  functionality and apis via a dll.
amarok on the desktop (click for larger).
andlinux check out andlinux, a complete ubuntu linux distribution built to run on  all modern, 32-bit windows operating systems like xp and vista.
but it has the  side-effect of allowing you to run linux apps within a windows environment.
colinux is an unholy  merger of windows and the linux kernel, and is not an emulated pc.
based on work bysosel, claudioc and snackfight.
as for why you'd want to do this, there are several linux apps that are much better -- and with more advanced features -- than their windows counterparts.
synaptic is accessible through the kde start menu which now shows up in windows' system tray (in the lower-right, next to the clock).
it allows you to compile linux applications that don't have a windows version.
if you're looking to the opposite -- windows apps running in a "coherence mode" style window on linux -- trythis tutorial, which uses virtualbox to do roughly the same thing.
if not, here are some options for getting linux apps on your vista or  xp desktop.
if you're lucky, someone has already ported your favorite linux app over to  windows.
the installer was originally intended to draw  in the curious by letting you run ubuntu linux on a windows machine without  actually having to install a second operating system.
anyone can contribute new items or edit an existing item.
tip: apparently, virtualbox's seamless mode doesn't work with compiz  desktop effects running, so be sure to turn them off if you encounter problems.
as with wine, the fact that it's not emulated means you get a significant performance boost.
categories: linux | windows | softwareall text and artwork shared under acreative commons license.
once you have things installed and configured, everything runs quite seamlessly -- you can install new linux apps with synaptic and you even get some right-click context menus in windows to open files in linux applications.
if you're lucky, someone has already ported your favorite linux app over to windows.
contents 1 what's the need for linux apps on windows?
also, those working in scientific fields probably use a number of linux-based apps that haven't yet been ported to windows (and may never be).
keep in mind that andlinux is a beta and may have some rough edges, but if  you're dying to get linux and windows playing nice, it should do the job.
amarok also has  better options for tagging your music than itunes, and it features integration  with wikipedia and the last.fm social network.
or creepy, depending on your thoughts.
once you have things installed and configured, everything runs quite  seamlessly -- you can install new linux apps with synaptic and you even get  some right-click context menus in windows to open files in linux applications.
and aside from the practical concerns, it's just  plain cool.
tip: apparently, virtualbox's seamless mode doesn't work with compiz desktop effects running, so be sure to turn them off if you encounter problems.
this page was last modified 19:46, 12 may 2010 by yo2boy.
ulteo virtual desktop with ulteo virtual desktop, you just have to run the application you need  to use from the ulteo panel and its window will show up like any other windows  application.
amarok lets  you move files in both directions -- onto the ipod and from the ipod onto your  desktop, a function that itunes by itself does not provide.
if you're looking to the opposite -- windows apps running in a  "coherence mode" style window on linux -- trythis tutorial, which  uses virtualbox to do roughly the same thing.
web developers and designers could test their pages against linux browsers  like konqueror, epiphany or even midori!
but what about those seeking the opposite -- windows fans that need to  run linux apps?
keep in mind that andlinux is a beta and may have some rough edges, but if you're dying to get linux and windows playing nice, it should do the job.
this article is a wiki.
it provides a good deal of linux functionality and apis via a dll.
cygwin is another possibility.
it allows you to compile linux applications  that don't have a windows version.
and aside from the practical concerns, it's just plain cool.
here you'll find all kinds of projects, hacks, tricks and tips on how to make each day better than the last.
for example, amarok is a superior alternative to windows media player or itunes, especially if you ever need to take music off your ipod.
the other way around:
linux fans who feel the need to run a windows app or two can take advantage ofwine, which enables most programs written for windows to run on the linux desktop.
create an article registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our user agreement and privacy policy (revised 08/01/2011).
andlinux isn't quite the same thing as wine, since andlinux actually loads the full linux kernel, but andlinux does make linux appslook like they're running natively on windows.
also, those working in scientific  fields probably use a number of linux-based apps that haven't yet been ported  to windows (and may never be).
it sounds daunting, but don't be scared -- all of these methods utilize the incredibly popular and easy to graspubuntu linux distribution.
under the hood, andlinux uses colinux as its core.
as with  wine, the fact that it's not emulated means you get a significant performance  boost.
wubi another option is to use wubi, which installs the latest stable release of  ubuntu on your windows machine.
tip: ubuntu will install with several key apps (browser, media player, e-mail client)
in other words, they behave somewhat like  windows apps running in the "coherence mode" ofparallels or  "unity mode" ofvmware on the mac.
however,  adam pash over at lifehacker has put togethera much better tutorial showing you  how to install kde ubuntu with andlinux.
tip: andlinux lets you choose how much system memory you want to dedicate to linux.
synaptic is accessible through the kde start menu  which now shows up in windows' system tray (in the lower-right, next to the  clock).
windows apps on linux what's the need for linux apps on windows?
andlinux isn't quite the same thing as wine, since andlinux actually loads  the full linux kernel, but andlinux does make linux appslook like  they're running natively on windows.
another option is to use wubi, which installs the latest stable release of ubuntu on your windows machine.
the installer was originally intended to draw in the curious by letting you run ubuntu linux on a windows machine without actually having to install a second operating system.
tip: ubuntu will install with several key apps (browser, media  player, e-mail client)
it sounds daunting, but don't be scared -- all of these methods  utilize the incredibly popular and easy to graspubuntu linux distribution.
but if you want more, use the synaptic installer to browse downloadable programs.
there are some basic install instructions at the andlinux website.
stumbleupon all text and artwork shared  under acreative commons license.
the installer recommends 192mb, but give it 512mb more if you have the memory to spare.
the material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of condé nast digital.
amarok also has better options for tagging your music than itunes, and it features integration with wikipedia and the last.fm social network.
running apps in a faux-native environment will always be easier than  dual-booting into a second os.
but what about those seeking the opposite -- windows fans that need to run linux apps?
colinux is an unholy merger of windows and the linux kernel, and is not an emulated pc.
in other words, they behave somewhat like windows apps running in the "coherence mode" ofparallels or "unity mode" ofvmware on the mac.
amarok lets you move files in both directions -- onto the ipod and from the ipod onto your desktop, a function that itunes by itself does not provide.
cygwin cygwin is another possibility.
with ulteo virtual desktop, you just have to run the application you need to use from the ulteo panel and its window will show up like any other windows application.
running apps in a faux-native environment will always be easier than dual-booting into a second os.
web developers and designers could test their pages against linux browsers like konqueror, epiphany or even midori!
the installer recommends 192mb, but give it 512mb more if  you have the memory to spare.
for example, amarok is a superior alternative to windows media player or  itunes, especially if you ever need to take music off your ipod.
but if you want more, use the synaptic installer to  browse downloadable programs.
but it has the side-effect of allowing you to run linux apps within a windows environment.