more... sco actions prompt linux warning gartner is warning customers that they should limitlinux use on critical systems because of sco group's legal saber rattling.
the distro had several new  releases this year...
by bill claybrook, contributor recently, red hat announced that it would be dropping xen from itsred hat enterprise linux distribution starting with red hat enterprise linux 6.
more... window shattering experience microsoft windows xp computer, the  author details the benefits of macintosh andlinux-based systems...
on the heels of a versora survey conducted earlier this month about window-to-linux migrations, versora and partner win4lin have struck while the migration is hot with new products and services aimed at wresting away customers from the folks in...
red hat has been supporting xen for a few years and addedsupport for kvm in red hat enterprise linux 5.4.
more... uk government, ibm launch nine linux pilots ibm is pushing linux into the united kingdom and russia.
explore the process of expansion, and examine several interesting and complex...
by john h. terpstra when faced with making linux and windows work together securely, system administrators can run into trouble if they don't understand or can't correctly use the administrativesecurity controls...
this guide reviews the recommended approach for planning and implementing themigration of applications on an ibm power system running aix to oracle’s sun fire x4800server with the intel xeon processor...
november  also saw the third anniversary of thenovell...  more... more by this  author opinion: microsoft, sun, oracle can't sidestep linux, open source  movement by  don rosenberg and erodes their businesses.
let's look at how this has played out.
the purpose of this document is to help the reader translate his or her knowledge of dos and windows into thelinux environment, as well as providing...
author cybersource faces uphill battle with not-so-thin  clients by  jack loftus, news writer australian open source vendor cybersource tuesday launched its new linux -based trimclient desktop line, which the company's product manager, ron fabre,  described as a combination of a workstation pc and a system imageserver.
the analyst firm isn't saying sco's claims necessarily have merit but "don't take them lightly," one... more... surge in rhel subscriptions boosts red hat profits grew 43% and that it enjoyed its fourth consecutive quarter of profitability.
more... more by this
author suse white papers uptime and the value of clustering for linux servers by global knowledge in your data center, with your already deployed linux servers, on your existing commodity x86 hardware.
sans updates top 10 list of linux/unix threats and the  fbi regrinding the most commonly exploitedit security vulnerabilities in linux ...
expert offers guidance using linux and other open-source tools to secure an enterprise environment requires more research and hands-on work than using a proprietary platform.
more... mandrakesoft expects to be free of chapter  11 linux distributor mandrakesoft said its goal is to leave chapter 11  bankruptcy protection behind by the end of the year.
more... linux+solaris howto describes how to use solaris andlinux together on one machine.
view the abstract migrating your legacy ibm database environment to the latest oracle technologies by oracle corporation the intel xeon processor 7560 runningoracle
more... more by this author centos, rhel vs. oracle on linux
more... sun linux sun microsystems', inc.
more... is linux security
author cybersource faces uphill battle with not-so-thin clients by jack loftus, news writer australian open source vendor cybersource tuesday launched its new linux -based trimclient desktop line, which the company's product manager, ron fabre, described as a combination of a workstation pc and a system imageserver.
if centos is a clone ofrhel, then how is it any different than oracle's unbreakable linux?
it addresses common questions  like multibooting and file-sharing...
by  john h. terpstra when faced with making linux and windows work together securely, system  administrators can run into trouble if they don't understand or can't correctly  use the administrativesecurity controls...  more... more by this
on the heels of a versora survey conducted earlier this month about  window-to-linux migrations, versora and partner win4lin have struck while the  migration is hot with new products and services aimed at wresting away
more... sco actions prompt linux warning gartner is warning customers that  they should limitlinux use on critical systems because of sco group's legal  saber rattling.
by   bill claybrook, contributor recently, red hat announced that it would be  dropping xen from itsred hat enterprise linux distribution starting with red  hat enterprise linux 6.
more... more by this author opinion: microsoft, sun, oracle can't sidestep linux, open source movement
more... more by this author managing samba-3: user rights and privileges
view the abstract linux security corner the linux command line bywilliam e. shots, jr this resource provides a complete introduction to the linux command line.
centos attempts to mirror rhel, while oracle has stated they will fix bugs in  rhel ahead of red hat fixing them (in other words, they will release patches  ahead ofred hat...  more... more by this author suse  white papers uptime and the value of clustering for linux servers by global  knowledge  in your data center, with your already deployed linux servers, on  your existing commodity x86 hardware.
the company is replacing linux with solaris 10...
more... sun moves away from linux desktop sun microsystems is shifting the focus of its java desktop system away fromlinux.
find out  what a distribution is, why a corporate it shop needs more than thekernel,  where you can...
this white paper explores the need for uptime, explains the three  components that contribute to uptime, reviews some of the problems with...
the company is replacing linux with  solaris 10...  more... linux+solaris howto describes how to  use solaris andlinux together on one machine.
let's look  at how this has played out.
more... is linux security right for you?
more... sun  moves away from linux desktop sun microsystems is shifting the focus of  its java desktop system away fromlinux.
a look  at linux in the recession: linux 2009 year in review by  leah rosin, site  editor and functionality made the open source option more attractive.
dos and windows users who have decided to switch tolinux, the free unix clone.
by don rosenberg and erodes their businesses.
this is the promise ofclustering.
thelinux distributor  attributed the growth to a surge inred hat enterprise linux subscriptions.
more... more by this author versora ceo seeks windows-to-linux converts by jack loftus, news writer
more... from dos/windows to linux howto to all the (soon-to-be former?)
linux 5.5 operating system.
customers from the folks in... more... more by this author centos, rhel vs. oracle on linux
more... linux evaluations may help drive microsoft price cuts office upgrades for 5,000 pcs, after it was disclosed that the company was evaluatinglinux desktops... more...
however, in this commentary there is new evidence presented thatsaid linux is gaining...
this white paper explores the need for uptime, explains the three components that contribute to uptime, reviews some of the problems with...
linux administrators seemed to have a relatively good shot in the  weak 2009 job market, and virtualization expertise is a hot commodity.
sun "embraced" linux earlier than microsoft, because sun was in a  weaker position.
sans updates top 10 list of linux/unix threats and the fbi regrinding the most commonly exploitedit security vulnerabilities in linux ...
big blue announced nine linux pilot programs with the british government  that will providecost-savings data and other...
more... mandrakesoft expects to be free of chapter 11 linux distributor mandrakesoft said its goal is to leave chapter 11 bankruptcy protection behind by the end of the year.
author upgrading your linux distribution mini-howto hints and tips on upgrading from onelinux distribution to another...
but the tradeoff comes in...
the analyst firm isn't saying sco's claims necessarily have  merit but "don't take them lightly," one... more... surge  in rhel subscriptions boosts red hat profits grew 43% and that it enjoyed  its fourth consecutive quarter of profitability.
more... featured topic: linux distributions if the linux kernel  is a building block, then alinux distribution is the sears tower.
view the abstract migrating your legacy ibm database environment  to the latest oracle technologies by oracle corporation  the intel xeon  processor 7560 runningoracle
discover what happens when you press the enter key on the  command line.
more... a unified linux desktop distribution is the only way to beat windows one analyst has concluded that if linux wants to gain market share in the enterprise desktop space over windows, developers should collaborate on a single desktop distribution based onubuntu...
customers were discovering that they could get sparc/solaris-like results fromrunning linux on cheap...
more... red hat releases enterprise-grade linux distro today, red hat begins offering the newest version of its enterprise-grade linux distribution.
more... window shattering experience microsoft windows xp computer, the author details the benefits of macintosh andlinux-based systems...
however, in this commentary there is new evidence presented thatsaid linux is  gaining...
more... xen support being dropped by red hat, what should customers do?
discover what happens when you press the enter key on the command line.
more... new novell soa suite supports linux novell's new extend 5.2 soa suite includes support for suse andred hat linux distributions...
more... managing  samba-3: user rights and privileges
dos and  windows users who have decided to switch tolinux, the free unix clone.
by leah rosin, site editor and functionality made the open source option more attractive.
more... new novell soa suite  supports linux novell's new extend 5.2 soa suite includes support for  suse andred hat linux distributions...
view the abstract privileged account access  management: why sudo is no longer enough by foxt  infrastructures, but it lacks  the administration efficiencies, architectural vision, andsecurity-related  compliance requirements that are needed to effectively protect critical assets  for organizations running hundreds and thousands of diverseunix and... view the abstract
ceo matthew szulik also announced that red hat will begin a desktop...
dubbed red hat enterprise linux 3.0, the product includes some features businesses would prize such assupport for 32-processor hardware and better...
sun "embraced" linux earlier than microsoft, because sun was in a weaker position.
the distro had several new releases this year...
customers were discovering that they could get  sparc/solaris-like results fromrunning linux on cheap...
author upgrading your linux distribution mini-howto hints and tips  on upgrading from onelinux distribution to another...
thelinux distributor attributed the growth to a surge inred hat enterprise linux subscriptions.
this guide reviews the recommended approach for planning and implementing  themigration of applications on an ibm power system running aix to  oracle’s sun fire x4800server with the intel xeon processor... view  the abstract linux security corner the linux command line  bywilliam e. shots, jr  this resource provides a complete introduction to the  linux command line.
explore the process of expansion, and examine several interesting  and complex...
more... uk government, ibm  launch nine linux pilots ibm is pushing linux into the united kingdom and  russia.
view the abstract privileged account access management: why sudo is no longer enough by foxt infrastructures, but it lacks the administration efficiencies, architectural vision, andsecurity-related compliance requirements that are needed to effectively protect critical assets for organizations running hundreds and thousands of diverseunix and... view the abstract browse directory
big blue announced nine linux pilot programs with the british government that will providecost-savings data and other...
more... column: linux gains as alternative in windows world the majority.
more... red hat releases enterprise-grade  linux distro today, red hat begins offering the newest version of its  enterprise-grade linux distribution.
linux administrators seemed to have a relatively good shot in the weak 2009 job market, and virtualization expertise is a hot commodity.
only kvm...  more... more by this author versora ceo seeks windows-to-linux converts by jack loftus, news writer
more... featured topic: linux distributions if the linux kernel is a building block, then alinux distribution is the sears tower.
centos attempts to mirror rhel, while oracle has stated they will fix bugs in rhel ahead of red hat fixing them (in other words, they will release patches ahead ofred hat...
more... linux  evaluations may help drive microsoft price cuts office upgrades for 5,000  pcs, after it was disclosed that the company was evaluatinglinux desktops...
dubbed red hat enterprise linux 3.0, the  product includes some features businesses would prize such assupport for  32-processor hardware and better...
red hat has been supporting xen for a few years and  addedsupport for kvm in red hat enterprise linux 5.4.
more... a unified linux desktop distribution is the only  way to beat windows one analyst has concluded that if linux wants to gain  market share in the enterprise desktop space over windows, developers should  collaborate on a single desktop distribution based onubuntu...  more... xen support being dropped by red hat, what should customers do?
linux administrators solution search: search a look at linux in the recession: linux 2009 year in review
the  purpose of this document is to help the reader translate his or her knowledge  of dos and windows into thelinux environment, as well as providing...
find out what a distribution is, why a corporate it shop needs more than thekernel, where you can...
linux distribution  is now delivered on the sun lx50, the first in a familyof linux servers that  provide a flexible solution for applications that live on the edge of the
ceo  matthew szulik also announced that red hat will begin a desktop...  more... column: linux gains as alternative in windows world the majority.
it addresses common questions like multibooting and file-sharing...
linux distribution is now delivered on the sun lx50, the first in a familyof linux servers that provide a flexible solution for applications that live on the edge of the
expert offers guidance using linux and other open-source tools to  secure an enterprise environment requires more research and hands-on work than  using a proprietary platform.
november also saw the third anniversary of thenovell...
by  bernard golden if centos is a  clone ofrhel, then how is it any different than oracle's unbreakable linux?