credits: the game was improved with suggestions and inputs from daniweb.com.
actually, “we don’t.”
when a folder within a folder within  a folder (and so on…) is visited, a navigation strip appears near the  top of the explorer/file manager window.
i am planning to install it on my home pc (the one currently in use by my dad and sister).
so, featuring a host of new improvements, here i am making the improved game available for download.
graduating from college took  another year after that, and finally joined accenture in mid-2009.
so, what’s keeping me busy these days?
during the worst period of downtime (recession),  got an on-campus placement inaccenture in 2008.
renaming file when a file is renamed (by right-clicking and choosing “rename” or by pressing f2) in either of oses, only the name of the file is selected, leaving the file extension unselected.
or ubuntu’s features by vista?
studied  till 5th standard inst.
improved font system 5.
after  completing schooling in apj (till 12th), joinednational institute of  technology [nitj] (again, in jalandhar) as a computer science &  engineering student in 2005.
some even go to such extremes, “you  know, you are wasting your precious money on this crap os (windows), which  first drains all your money and then keeps on crashing.
although it’s a command-line application, believe me, it’s damn straight-forward, and as simple as any other gui thing.
here i discuss some of the similarities that i have noted in due course of  my usage of both the operating systems.
in earlier versions of windows, we used to know it with the name “my computer”.
the words read from text file are jumbled automatically & randomly 3.
i can hardly wait to get my hands on it.
tagged with:linux • partition • recovery • windows dec 31 why switch?
btw, you can find me at:facebook twitter last.fm digg  librarything granular nov 05 blogging, rants no comments » testdisk turning on your computer one not-so-fine day just to  discover an entire partition (drive on harddisk) gone is nothing short of a  nightmare potent enough to give you a mild heart attack.
god, please me my ev-do back.
this wasn’t the case in earlier  versions of windows.
vista is the latest edition to the most  popular operating system (os) lineup – windows.
in both the oses, this navigation  strip is very similar looking and a helpful aid.
this wasn’t the case in earlier versions of windows.
finally, i did mention it earlier also, but it really is a frustrating life  without a proper internet connection.
the python source was converted into a windows executable (.exe) using  py2exe.
so, featuring a host of new improvements, here i am making the  improved game available for download.
but the next time i booted into linux, my windows  partition was no longer being shown in the file manager.
changed splash image
» i keep hearing people say, “i am happy with my windows; don’t  want to switch to an alien os such as linux.”
in earlier versions of windows, we used to know it with  the name “my computer”.
were vista’s  features inspired by ubuntu?
lifehacker] so, what’s keeping me busy these days?
it’s upto you to decide.
the python source was converted into a windows executable (.exe) using py2exe.
although it’s a command-line application, believe me,  it’s damn straight-forward, and as simple as any other gui thing.
just to remind the readers, the game is  made in python using the wxpython libraries for the graphical interface (gui).
in both, the name given to the central  access point to all the disks and partitions on a computer is  “computer”.
so, these similarities are common between vista and many other linux distributions that use the latest version of gnome.
working on quite a challenging and bigger project has its side-effects as well (working till late and missing daily fruit juice doses in my case).
other than that, i am enjoying the work as it has to do with web development, my area of interest.
even, “i would really like to  switch over to linux, but don’t know how hard it is to make that shift  (replacing windows or dual-booting).
working on quite a challenging and bigger project has its  side-effects as well (working till late and missing daily fruit juice doses in  my case).
and i have reasons to  believe this.
tagged with: dualboot • friends • linux •  office • open-source
note: the similarities between vista and ubuntu  are primarily because of the desktop environment used by ubuntu – gnome.
most of us know what vista is.
i’ll come up with a  linux executable soon.
• windows oct 12 blogging, fun, linux,  windows 10 comments » vs windows vista and ubuntu linux – both are totally disparate entities
verdict does this imply anything?
i have also heard promoters of linux say, “now that you know of all  the benefits of linux, it’s time you make the switch to it from your  existing os (windows).”
it’s office work , of course.
improved overall interface
also, i would be happy to get some feedback from you regarding this little app.
god, please me my ev-do  back.
linux, open-source no comments
changed splash image 4.
an ardent distro hopper that i am, i recently installed (k)ubuntu 11.10 on  my laptop.
this way, you’ll get a feel of the incredible os linux is, and on the same time not lose access to your favorite (it-just-works) os (windows).
or neither of the cases.
i keep hearing people say, “i am happy with my windows; don’t want to switch to an alien os such as linux.”
i have also heard promoters of linux say, “now that you know of all the benefits of linux, it’s time you make the switch to it from your existing os (windows).”
thanks to its linux version, i was able to find the lost windows partition, recover it and write the updated partition table to the harddisk.
why do people, who try to compel people toswitch from windows to linux, forget that there is always an option called “dualbooting” and that windows still has the astronomically largest market share?
more than 4 months had passed since i made it, and now it was time it got some makeover.
when  referring to making the move from windows to linux.
vs windows vista and ubuntu linux – both are totally disparate entities and i am talking about similarities?
in both, the name given to the central access point to all the disks and partitions on a computer is “computer”.
and, “hey, this linux  thing looks cool.
i am planning to install it on my home pc (the one currently in use by my dad  and sister).
in vista, the  most common and appealing effect is flip 3d. creation of a new folder when a new file/folder is  created within another folder in either of the os, the newly created item  rearranges itself automatically in alphabetical order with respect to the other  items contained by the parent folder.
but i do not want to switch over to it suddenly (or at all) because my windows just works.”
for those who are unfamiliar with ubuntu, ubuntu is one of the most popular linux-based os that is available for free.
switch to linux today,  it’s free!”
why do people, who try to  compel people toswitch from windows to linux, forget that there is  always an option called “dualbooting” and that windows still has  the astronomically largest market share?
were vista’s features inspired by ubuntu?
and i hate when people use words like “switch”, “migrate”, etc.
you may encounter bugs.
have you ever even tried to know that there existed such a thing as dual-booting?
finally, i did mention it earlier also, but it really is a frustrating life without a proper internet connection.
why do we have to *switch* to another os just to try it out, or because someone told us to, or because it’s free, or because… whatever?
more  than 4 months had passed since i made it, and now it was time it got some  makeover.
why  do we have to *switch* to another os just to try it out, or because someone  told us to, or because it’s free, or because… whatever?
an installer was made out of the executable using innosetup.
just to remind the readers, the game is made in python using the wxpython libraries for the graphical interface (gui).
and, not to mention, this is the best way to encourage users to use linux.
you cannot force linux down people’s throat just  because of your own reasons.
it didn’t take me much time to realize  that the windows dvd had screwed up my partition table, making the whole 80gb  windows partition disappear!
you cannot force linux down people’s throat just because of your own reasons.
and, “so what’s holding you back, just make the switch today.”
or better yet, using linux on a live cd/dvd/usb (or  if you are a geek, you can try linux through virtualization as well).
both are freely available for download and very easy to use.
so the current situation rather kind of demands having todual-boot along with windows, instead of instantly switching.
by the  way, i am also writing an article highlighting this matter (why switch?
but the next time i booted into linux, my windows partition was no longer being shown in the file manager.
after all, we cannot ignore the fact that despite getting competition from  linux and mac since long, windows still holds the largest piece of market share  pie.
graphical effects starting from ubuntu 7.10, both the  oses have given stress on providing graphical desktop effects to the end user.
in case, some day, you find yourself with a partition or two gone from your harddisk, give testdisk a try.
also, two of my good friends, chandan puggal (working at aricent) and amritpal singh (working at accenture) recently joined me in gurgaon (my present work location).
i’ll come up with a linux executable soon.
when referring to making the move from windows to linux.
by the way, i am also writing an article highlighting this matter (why switch?
both are  freely available for download and very easy to use.
in ubuntu, the effects are a result of compiz fusion software.
has anyone noticed how we use the word “switch” so often?
in case, some day, you find yourself with a partition or two  gone from your harddisk, give testdisk a try.
and, “hey, this linux thing looks cool.
some even go to such extremes, “you know, you are wasting your precious money on this crap os (windows), which first drains all your money and then keeps on crashing.
things were all fine for 4 days until i fixed a startup issue with my windows installation using its dvd.
in both the oses, this navigation strip is very similar looking and a helpful aid.
vista is the latest edition to the most popular operating system (os) lineup – windows.
here i discuss some of the similarities that i have noted in due course of my usage of both the operating systems.
sub-folders in user profile folder the default folders present in the user profile folder (or the home folder) are something like –documents, music, pictures, videos – in both the oses.
joseph's convent school, jalandhar, and later  had to joinapeejay school, jalandhar as, perhaps, the former school  decided boys could be troublesome in a girls' school after 5th.
being a strong advocate of open-source and linux , i read a lot of articles on these topics daily.
and my x-y-z app works in windows, and  i’ve heard it doesn’t in linux.”
this way,  you’ll get a feel of the incredible os linux is, and on the same time not  lose access to your favorite (it-just-works) os (windows).
and i am talking about similarities?
tagged with:  effects • gnome • graphics • linux • os • similarities  •ubuntu • vista • windows sep 28
thanks to its linux version, i was able to find the  lost windows partition, recover it and write the updated partition table to the  harddisk.
after all, we cannot ignore the fact that despite getting competition from linux and mac since long, windows still holds the largest piece of market share pie.
dualboot!), which i intend to share pretty soon.
and i hate when  people use words like “switch”, “migrate”, etc.
things were all fine for 4 days until i fixed a startup issue with  my windows installation using its dvd.
i fired up  “fdisk -l” just to find out that the windows partition had been  overwritten by another hidden 2gb fat partition, which was now being shown as a  twin duplicate of the original.
renaming file when a file is renamed (by  right-clicking and choosing “rename” or by pressing f2) in either  of oses, only the name of the file is selected, leaving the file extension  unselected.
and how easy it is to set up dual-booting?
graphical effects starting from ubuntu 7.10, both the oses have given stress on providing graphical desktop effects to the end user.
in vista, the most common and appealing effect is flip 3d. creation of a new folder when a new file/folder is created within another folder in either of the os, the newly created item rearranges itself automatically in alphabetical order with respect to the other items contained by the parent folder.
note: the similarities between vista and ubuntu are primarily because of the desktop environment used by ubuntu – gnome.
the issue was temporarily fixed and i  was able to log into windows.
improved jumbled words game downloads, games, programming, python,  softwares 2 comments » remember the little, cute jumbled words game i prepared in python?
i really hope people use the word “dualboot” more when advocating the use of linux to others.
even, “i would really like to switch over to linux, but don’t know how hard it is to make that shift (replacing windows or dual-booting).
the various downloads are: i hope you like it.
that, actually, is the best first step to *switch* from windows to linux, if you really decide to later.
talking about linux, the latest ubuntu release (10.4; lucid lynx) has been getting good reviews from all around.
it didn’t take me much time to realize that the windows dvd had screwed up my partition table, making the whole 80gb windows partition disappear!
when a folder within a folder within a folder (and so on…) is visited, a navigation strip appears near the top of the explorer/file manager window.
and, “so what’s holding you back,  just make the switch today.”
testdisk an ardent distro hopper that i am, i recently installed (k)ubuntu 11.10 on my laptop.
have you ever even tried to know that there existed such a  thing as dual-booting?
because my windows just works.”
and, not to mention, this is the best way to  encourage users to use linux.
or better yet, using linux on a live cd/dvd/usb (or if you are a geek, you can try linux through virtualization as well).
for those who are  unfamiliar with ubuntu, ubuntu is one of the most popular linux-based os that  is available for free.
this is my  story so far...
but i do not want to switch over to it suddenly (or at all)
to use (or try) linux, there is  always the nice option ofdual-booting (yep, that’s the  word) windows with linux.
lifehacker] tagged with: dual-boot • linux  •switch • windows may 20 in and around blogging, rants 1 comment »
also, two of my good friends, chandan puggal (working at  aricent) and amritpal singh (working at accenture) recently  joined me in gurgaon (my present work location).
so, these similarities are common between vista and many other linux  distributions that use the latest version of gnome.
and i have reasons to believe this.
the issue was temporarily fixed and i was able to log into windows.
i fired up “fdisk -l” just to find out that the windows partition had been overwritten by another hidden 2gb fat partition, which was now being shown as a twin duplicate of the original.
unfortunately, exactly  that happened to me yesterday.
other than that, i am enjoying the work as it has to do with web  development, my area of interest.
and maybe apython egg? changelog: 1.
gallery contact born a day after the american independence in jalandhar, punjab, india, i've spent most part of my life there.
switch to linux today, it’s free!”
to use (or try) linux, there is always the nice option ofdual-booting (yep, that’s the word) windows with linux.
words are now read from a text file 2.
that, actually, is the best first step to *switch* from windows to linux,  if you really decide to later.
installing and playing is easy.
and my x-y-z app works in windows, and i’ve heard it doesn’t in linux.”
i really hope people use the word  “dualboot” more when advocating the use of linux to others.
sub-folders in user profile folder the default  folders present in the user profile folder (or the home folder) are something  like –documents, music, pictures, videos – in both the oses.
after some research, i found this excellent opensource partition recovery  tool by the nametestdisk.
talking about linux, the latest ubuntu release (10.4; lucid lynx) has been  getting good reviews from all around.
if so, do let me know.
or neither of  the cases.
after some research, i found this excellent opensource partition recovery tool by the nametestdisk.
remember the little, cute jumbled words game i prepared in python?