regardless of how amazing an os is (or not) at the end of the day it's really the applications that people care about.
support is missing for many wifi cards.
linux are the rebels and microsoft the empire who will win.
i wonder why they wanna stay in "mainstream" - and feel the pain.
you see, i have used windows from version 1.0 when a mouse could cost 80-120 us dls.
june 5, 2009 6:37 am the issue i have as a windows non-hater (i don't love it but it works fine for me) is how everyone who uses linux tries to shove it down everyone's throat (and then brag about all you have to do all day is comment on crap like this).
"the one big thing i don't get is why anyone would be a fan of microsoft" errrr...maybe because it just works?
a. windows is expensive -> it is good b. free/open source software is from nerds -> it is bad c. bill gates is both rich and a celebrity -> he must be really good d. gnu/linux is free -> it must be bad e. gnu/linux offers choice -> thinking ->
i am fairly comfortable in command line and some of the driver fix stuff makes my head spin, so your average user is going to be plum out of luck.
microsoft is a good example of an entrepreneur who is insecure, greedy, and lazy.
they will probably laugh themselves into a coronary, when they get to see the code.
microsoft holds 90 percent of operating system pre-installs.
june 4, 2009 10:30 pm "many microsoft cyber warriors are obviously volunteer evangelists, who knows what is their motivation.?
some folks' egos just can't take that kind of hit.
windows was there first and has become the standard which everyone has created applications for.
people have more trouble using windows than any other os the main difference is that any 8 years old kid knows how to fix it on the blue screen of death pops up.
people who say, "i've been running linux for 5 years, and it's really not that good," because microsoft would rather encourage trolls, than make a great product.
" my family asks me about windows problems and i try to help them, but then i make the mistake of saying "sorry, i can't help you anymore than i have.
microsoft is scared of odf, because it can be used (in implemented by a company that isn't deliberately trying to break it) in a wide range of software.
but i have certain needs and skills that linux works really well for.
ok, so the server gets focus, which makes sense, and linux is a killer server.
if this happens every time monitors are changed i sure can't recommend or use ubuntu for the public.
so - you've never changed a monitor before then, because that is what you are implying.
it's all about tearing down.
one is, whenever anyone has anything negative to say about linux, they're accused of being shills, astroturfers, fudsters, trolls, etc.
pm aleve, you missed the point just as widely as the rest.
it puts me in complete control of the computer.
so if this much trouble occurs at the server level, where we're talking dozens to hundreds, what enterprise is even gong to try with desktops that could number in the thousands?
until they get the drive, i'll avoid using microsoft products, and i'll advise others not to.
ubuntu works fine, it's surely better than any windows.
i use both but choose windows as my main operating system because the fact is there is more available for the windows operating system than is out there for linux.
yes, there is a problem with sites like digg/reddit, because it's easy to manipulate them with mere trolls number.
i like what it does, and the way it works.
flash video performance is hideous, and my computer is plugged into my tv.
don't try it; it's not worth the effort.
after the hassle with codec's for mp3 and mpg files; a hassle with 'no-audio' for an audigy sound card; and the hassles with nvidia drivers that won't activate, i gave up.
and when i see trolls, i'll fight them in the forums.
this tactic never worked and it wouldn't work even if you keep repeating it endlessly.
i hoped "the new microsoft os will finally be stabile, easy and secure".
june 5, 2009 4:20 am that there's a subtle change in approach is obvious and i agree that we more frequently nowadays sees this "i love it
nobody gets you wrong, we understand perfectly.
they don't have the drive.
this is just not true.
microsoft are a grubby bunch.
i think it is poor form for ms to manipulate sites like digg, there will be a backlash when the users figure it out.
when i throw linux on a desktop i am always blown away by how wonderful the general system responsiveness is.
it's also amusing to me how hard the astroturf brigades work to denigrate linux, and yet with the same breath claim that it is insignificant.
so as you can see, most technology that both ms and apple are using today was not created by them.
people d. celebrity = to be worshipped and followed.
only if you don't know about the dozens of other excellent desktop environments available at the click of the install button.
linux is there for the taking.
fixing this is never easy (although it's better than it used to be).
certainly it could only benefit from this treatment from a coding standpoint.
if anyone challenges this is assertion, the linux "fan"  trots out all kinds of edge cases proving that linux is not for anyone but  elite geeks: no photoshop, no autocad, no  $obscure-bit-of-very-specialized-software used by eight or ten people.
to think that everyone that criticizes linux is working for ms is just tin-foil hat insanity and can only stifle linux's progress.
congratulations, i guess.
so i can at least stay booted into linux, that kills performance as well.
advertise | newsletters | e-mail offers
(there is some debate to how much is original given how much his products mimic a certain brawn designer of past; draw your own conclusions)
if microsoft opens its code in a truly free as in speech and beer way i will personally clean every bathroom and train car in grand central station from top to bottom with my toung!
still whining about kde4?
(and you actually claim that mac and windows are for everyone.)
don't get me wrong, i prefer linux.
and i'm cool with not being able to run certain applications.
i love and use linux every day at home.
your are a troll and all the problems you cited are nothing but fabrications.
no version of windows comes with a substantial set of hardware drivers, it's often a separate installation.
i cannot count the number of times i run a version of a distro, wipe and do a clean install of a newer version (i will not upgrade because that makes this issue worse), and find that hardware that worked beautifully out of box before is now broken.
sorry for my bad english.
it helps when you counter an argument posed by these astroturfers by providing proof and links to sites that debunk that argument.
i need microsoft windows in order to make my living.
these days many oem are coming up with pre installed linux machines, that's a good news, i have not used any till now but can you tell me whether all the avi, mpg etc which runs on windows will run on that?????
i am a real linux user, not a microsoft shill.
the only way to make identify what's true and what's not without any possible mistake is by thinking and experimenting, not by reading.
but i doult that will be possible.
until digg did away with shouts, for one example, organized troll gangs buried  many linux stories, especially the ones that got popular and made the front  page.
and of course we have the internet.
maybe this contender will be a big brand like google, intel, acer, maybe some less known like : snapdragon.
a big thank you for validating what i wrote about!
microsoft doesn't want this.
so, who are we waiting for it to be "ready" for if it isn't 6 yr olds and the computer illiterate?
which is why i got tired of talking about it myself.
am @saurabh you state in your post that windows can play dvd's out of the box, this is not true.
if windows users had to install windows, it wouldn't be ready for the desktop either.
some times this is good.
yes, i did try to reconfigure xorg which made things much worse.
now i have installed it as a desktop and want to run hulu on flash in firefox. . .
he's all about looks, style and marketing.
i love my vista computer and my familiar applications because i can do my job conveniently in a familiar environment.
how long did it take before the linux desktop could properly do fullscreen flash video?
1% market share ain't significant.)
they ask what i use, and i say "don't ask."
they commercialized what olpc was doing as a charitable project.
from boycott novell a new pattern in the attack on gnu/linux-based mobility is identified,  dissected, and named ...
some hardware may require windows.
rarely have i seen so many shills.
lastly you should give windows at least the credit which made computers for everyone with it gui front, apple guys may say we have better gui
if you can, check out the video triumph of the nerds found here:http://www.shoppbs.org/product/index.jsp?productid=1978852 (not associated with them in any way)
- many smaller but not inferior distributions give you as default by patent restricted codecs - monitors, especially older ctr with less standard refresh rates, can be tricky to use with modern systems.
gnu linux is getting more and more popular, gnu linux does not need promotion.
at my work it's 3 windows and one linux and one bsd.
i love linux, obviously.
and we spent weeks trying to get help on a satellite server, but they refused when we wouldn't sign a contract that said they get paid whether it's successful or not.
why would a company sell a sub-standard operating system (windows vista 7 for netbooks) and encourage people to upgrade?
well, it was not asus fault, of course.
it's out there in the market in open play and it's still losing.
again, lets be real, windows 7 is just vista with some ui tweaks and [b]much[/b] better marketing.
linux is difficult to use, has no 'os' standards, lacks distro compatibility, and lacks working drivers for a lot of hardware.
june 5, 2009 1:58 pm i've been an avid linux user for over 10 years, and there are several recurring patterns in the propaganda for it.
my experience with linux: knoppix got installed but was giving me some problem with sound card and wifi [deliberatly i have not mentioned my laptop brand/model here].
i was cheated for several years.
quote: also please let me know if microsoft opens its code to the community how linux guru will react?
when this stuff happens in windows or mac, they take it to the dealer and say "fix it."
in my day job i'm a windows programmer (c# asp.net visualstudio toolset, ms sql server 2005 and 2008) the company i work for has the largest fitness training organisations as it's clients.
it's software, not a religion or political party.
they've got so much time, mindshare and (probably) money invested in the microsoft ecosystem that these folks are firmly entrenched.
as a matter of fact i disabled totally the vista in my acer 6930 and i run exclusively ubuntu 9.04.
tiny budget laptops could absolutely not host vista inside.
now after using linux ubuntu i've found the difference.
am how to explain this reaction?
anyway, i have stopped worrying about market share for gnu/linux.
let me tell you, it is not so much different from vista but the perception is that is it much better.
this* is important for linux fans.
from a price standpoint it would stand to loose quite a bit of revenue mainly because they do not do all of their own tech support and to guarantee more frequent calls they would have to break everything by implementing new technologies every year or two.
besides, you'll have to keep your wallet open, for many of the programs you bought will eventually need to be upgraded at a cost.
we edit all of our images using the gimp on windows, the gimp provides us with all of our image editing needs, it even reads and edits any photoshop files we get sent.
" it's not a lot of effort.
the only issue i've ever had with a black screen in recent years is however with windows, since a quite standard configuration of a tyan motherboard and ati/amd integrated graphic card forced me to push f8 and choose vga (800x600) until i got proprietary graphic drivers installed.
is it billionaire worship,  the idea that any random robber baron is worth worshiping?
easy to get around, but the first step is knowing that you have to do so, and the second is locating the "illegal" add-ons.
bad enough then came ubuntu, live cd itself detected everything and i was statisfied and installed it.
while there are certainly pro-ms people putting down linux either under microsoft's employ or of their own accord, there are also a lot of real people with no agenda that have used or currently do use linux and have problems with it.
do someone skills get stopped by an application program?
now contrast that to windows 7; microsoft have spent a lot of money manipulating user generated content sites to hype the os.
ms has a bunch of things in it which were "obtained" in a rather (how do i say this nicely?)
i've been using using pclinux for over 4 years now, so i just had to check out hulu.com.
now comes this (relatively speaking) new kid on the block in the form of linux.
these are mainstream consumer program issues, and they are unacceptable.
you do mean using flashplayer10 on hulu.com, don't you?
keep using adobe products and internet explorer!
june 15, 2009 11:59 am rich said: "how to explain this reaction?
over the years i tried linux here and there and finally toyed with the *buntu family, it worked for me, until i borked it by my own doing... in fact now that i think about it the only way i learned about windows, linux, or bsd was by trying something that was above my level of knowledge and having to reinstall or fix the darn thing, but i found that i could either invest my time in (1)installing ubuntu (or any distro)and fixing the couple little hiccups or (2) installing windows, updating for a few hours, tracking down the drivers for my (not so) exotic hardware either way there's an investment of time and energy.
windows is there to buy nothing else.
a while back i tried to get a printer working that required you to run a windows program in the background (it used a proprietary driver).
usb is standard protocol and doesn't need special drivers.
anyone can check for himself that a modern linux distro like ubuntu can be very easy to use.
not even my high-tech teenage son would have the patience.
june 19, 2009 8:08 am
i know at least two people who do this paid by microsoft.
do you complain when windows hardware or software doesn't work on mac?
go buy a different printer/scanner/webcam/whatever.
and it's a terrible waste.
go astroturf somewhere else @saurabh for your first point the answer is rather simple a free linux distro can't pay for the licenses to distribute the codecs required for multimedia, however as a quick google would have showed you they are available and easily installed.
june 5, 2009 12:12 pm if linux is ever going to make significant gains in market share, the community needs to listen to criticism rather than write it all off as m$ fud.
can you recall the last time you read any positive comparisons, where the windows fans said "windows has these great features and i like them."
no playback problems.
there might be solutions but there are no real world solutions.
i did not have a lan cord which i can use to connect and then do some fix.
it seems that redmond holds asus responsible for having lauched tiny budget laptops with linux preloaded and must apologize : http://www.computerworld.com/action/article.do?command=viewarticlebasic&articleid=9133813
my friends ask me why i use it
we use windows xp, vista, server 2003 and iis, the entire microsoft stack, in fact, and we have no need for photoshop.
sjune 5, 2009 3:53 am "this escalating silliness" silliness?
this closed-minded, open-source mccarthyism is far more damaging to linux and the community than anything the microsoft trolls can do.
i am totally with the author that most people don't need that high end stuff.
and do not bother with any retort about the windows shell, it will be ignored.
for that purpose i have a database with links to counter most arguments.
here's the thing, i am not going to complain about weird obscure software.
in ubuntu is the same, you have to install the codecs....
i was bit frustrated due tot the above
earljune 4, 2009 11:52 pm eh, i try not to worry too much about it.
is the first time, i´ve notice that with a windows fresh install you can play dvd, music, movies.
from boycott novell a new pattern in the attack on gnu/linux-based mobility is identified, dissected, and named ...
so it's not much of a trump card, but then  if they were smart they wouldn't be propagating nonsense-- is "i hate  computers and all operating systems suck.
but they dropped long after the damage was done - they made themselves a laughing stock with that campaign.
the choice was windows and a couple games or linux and download any of these games you want.
kinda funny, i just read an article about "don't get me wrong...."june 5, 2009 10:49 am well carla, i'd say you hit a nerve.
until digg did away with shouts, for one example, organized troll gangs buried many linux stories, especially the ones that got popular and made the front page.
the computers are usually piii 800 and above.
if canonical doesn't get their act together, my next computer will probably be a mac.october 30, 2009 1:15 am search: the network for technology professionals about internet.com
while annoying i honestly prefer that answer to a million tutorials put together by hackers that provide a glimmer of hope to users who don't realize till 3 days and 20 hours of actual work later that they lack the technical skill to make their hardware work, and have to go buy new hardware anyway.
microsoft's business practices hurt everyone the one big thing i  don't get is why anyone would be a fan of microsoft?
this evaluation is based on microsoft's actions as a corporation (i have never meet bill gates).
but i really do hope you watch the vide.
this syndrome needs to be fixed.
i am sending this comment for slax; first bootup froze changing font size; wifi has disconnected twice before i could 'submit.'
but it's easier to do that, than to design something that truly is different, with new features that would attract more customers.
they want people to use microsoft xml (microsoft calls it office open xml, but while it may be used by office, it isn't open since it's impossible for anyone else to implement).
what were they suppose to do from microsoft point of view ?
there is another aspect of this cybercombat: we are allegedly outnumbered 89 to 1, yet we often outnumber them in the comment sections.
openoffice loads more quickly in windows, the list goes on.
problem 2: general desktop performance.
infact i've installed ubuntu (5) and fedora (1) to six old computers and gave them to relatives and friends.
i have tried various tweaks to improve performance, i have tried running windows in a vm
it's really really close, and every time i install a new distro most of the problems i had in the past have been taken care of and i run into a couple whole new ones.
a lot of these anti-linux zealots happen to be "power users" and "windows gurus".
it's just that many people disagree with such disinformation and want it to stop.
if linux were to ever catch on and reach critical mass then these same gurus and power users would have to basically start over right back at the bottom of the learning curve with the rest of the great unwashed masses; plus, there's the possibility that all their time, money and mindshare was wasted on an inferior product.
no matter what, looking at apple stock and such you can say he is very good at selling and marketing.
in other circumstances i'm referring to linux as a set of tools: "this is what i need and these are my options, and as seen linux does it more effeciently, if it doesn't meet your needs don't use it and choose something that does".
they dollar you to death on licensing and provisioning and anything else you want to do beyond a basic install.
pm i know there's a script they use.
photoshop is for high end image production, and that's where it should stay.
i visit dozens of web sites every day and read all  kinds of blogs, news, articles, and reader comments.
it does not matter how many times a gnu/linux advocate points out that the command line is not required to install software or configure the system, someone always jumps in with a too hard because of command line comment.
there are many things you can't do with linux, or that if you can do, are very limited (e.g. video editing, watching tv, using proprietary formats required because of your job, etc...)
we're only talking about tools, damn it!
microsoft would rather pay trolls to trash linux and osx, rather than producing something that is so much better than linux or osx, that you'd be crazy to use either.
saurabh said: "lastly you should give windows at least the credit which made computers for everyone with it gui front, apple guys may say we have better gui but that is another discussion in itself."
then they scan the net for everything pro linux or against ms and do their part to spread fud.june 5, 2009 5:37
of course when there is a true competition the consumer can choose between windows os, linux, android, moblin .......more choice means products will bring us more value for money.
btw, linux can't be considered competition with barely 1% market share, despite trying to convince it's desktop-ready for more than a decade...lol.june 5, 2009 4:08 am @earl - you sound like a perfect example of the subject of this blog post.
heck, look at the amazon top 100 list of computers.
also, if you have installed windows as many times as i have, you know that there is a lot more stuff that doesn't work correctly out of the box.
it's amazing how people are ready to suffer.
by a curious coincidence, a few days ago at "computex" taipei an asus executive presented his apologies (to whom ?) for having put on display a netbook runing the google "android" os.
who cares about bill gates?
case in point is a book called "after the software wars", which i thought was written with honesty until it got to the nauseating mono-pushing chapter.
if you start discussing anything deep or technical they usually stop posting or resort to ranting about nothing.
when someone believed microsoft to be the end-all and reality proves otherwise, reality bites.
they drag the whole tone of it down to gutter level with their furious insistence on everything being on their terms.
june 5, 2009 9:09 am
windows almost always comes preinstalled and preconfigured from the producer, along with dvd software.
linux is a great os as a whole.
wireless.... lets just say that a wide variety of cards are actively being added to distributions list of working hardware, if those venders would release even closed source linux drivers the world would be a better place, as to whether oems add support restricted formats, that is up to them, dell adds in support for dvds and ... possibly others.
the end result is censorship.
(note: this is probably why no one actually uses it on the desktop.
1 hardware regressions.
in stuart mill's words, we are now in a dictatorship of the majority.
call me old fashioned.
windows is not for everyone.
i think that people think that using windows and feeling pain is just "normal computing thing".
i have been evaluating linux distro's for about ten years and have found none that work very well.
it has happened with wireless cards, audio cards, web cams, and even video cards across more upgrades than i can count.
i doubt many would bother with it
thirdly windows didn create the first gui pc fourthly ms will never opensource windows and if they did the code is so bad
just a couple of thoughts concerning some questions here: - for patent protected codecs feel free to buy mandriva or suse linux, in case you don't want to or your concious tells you it against the law of your country to activate repositories with such content.
if it is as healthy as today and yesterday with a fraction of the desktop market it's a solid product.
for example, there's the fundamentalist/ conservative who says, "i voted for obama/ clinton and i'm a proud supporter of liberal causes; now here's why the liberals are wrong about everything.
anonymous "everyone who uses linux
yes, linux has great online communities, but ultimately, they have to figure it out themselves, and none of my friends have been cool with that.
he might be a great salesman.
am for the encrypted dvds type after the previous this "sudo /usr/share/doc/libdvdread3/install-css.sh" now everything will play amazingly.
and then there's odf support, or should i say lack of support.
i'm also noticing a pattern of ex-softies blogging and writing books about supposedly "seeing the open-source light" bla bla ... and then the next thing you know is they talk about how wonderful mono is.
" well, if someone learns graphic design or cad or whatever it is a pitty that it would be limited to only one application.
they hate people who make money.
of course you could disable automatic updates, but it is not recommended --as a side note, some people consider updates a source of incompatibility problems and even a way to spy on you, but it is beyond this post to argument--.
i don't let windows anywhere near any network.
listed below are links to blogs that reference this entry: don't get me wrong, linux sucks as much as windows.
it's also amusing to me how hard the astroturf brigades work to  denigrate linux, and yet with the same breath claim that it is insignificant.
june 5, 2009 2:26 am i have a blog that is notoriously pro-linux and pro-foss.
ditto the full version of photoshop.
at work the number of linux boxes could be higher and might become since several "windows" tasks easily can be handled by a terminal server.
as far as dvd and restricted media playback, a little research will do you some good, as far as i am aware a vanilla windows disc does not include dvd or proprietary formats either, unless provided by your oem there are programs like vlc etc.
give me adobe premiere, an application that can edit .psd
microsoft thinks that apple and linux are dangerous.
i've had that problem in both linux and windows.
boot-up gets corrupted and fails.
as far as their motivation is concerned, i have this pet theory.
you must still be using red hat 5.0.
just keep on bashing, it shuts them up, believe me.
really? "drm, stifled innovation, collusion with hardware vendors" they're a company, they're not a non-profit like ;) "worldwide malware damage in the tens of billions of dollars every year" microsoft?
isn't linux going in the same direction as windows (leave cost factor here)
when they eliminated floppy disks as an install medium for compact discs the price of windows increased, even though the install medium price dropped dramatically.
choose what's right for you and let the technology stand on its own merits.
if component manufacturers do release the specifications, another operating system might be able to use that hardware, and microsoft doesn't believe that they can compete in the operating system market.
but, does microsoft actually employ a room full of bloggers who roam the net making negative comments?
with the amount of talent that microsoft employs, they should be able to totally blow away apple, totally blow away linux, and make users so happy that they'd be crazy to use anything other than windows.
it was more or less blue screens, restarts, fatal errors, viruses though i used one of the best virus programms (norton, f-secure...).
he has better things to do with his time than the care and feeding of his computer.
whether it's linux or apple that they are attacking, all of these people are lying.
my wife who is very computer illiterate uses it to check email and facebook.
today, i find the opposite.
nowadays i pay 10 € for unicef every month - i spend the money avoiding microsoft software.
and i say "i don't know.
it's interesting some of the claims made as to whay linux suchs/isn't ready, for example the one about photoshop not running on linux.
there is very little overhead, and as an operating environment it blows windows out of the water.
thus, as long as gnu/linux remains minority, well, i have fewer competitors.
so many comments have the same phrases, use a similar approach.
by my standards at the time it was a beast of an os that just did not measure up to my standards and all the help i got was command line this or that.
a well-setup linux system is magnitudes more reliable than any windows system, and much easier to support.
linus will not do multiple customized kernels, which i understand from a development hours standpoint.
they are marketing companies with apple doing a much better job in that area.
so if some one tries to convince you switch to linux don't do it!!!!
many third party drivers and addons would be needed for the "full functionality" that you think of as "out of the box" behaviour for windows.
your 'ordinary users' don't install windows, or new hardware, or try to fix things.
well, i've been told there's something called linux, which is used worldwide by companies as big as ibm and google, and by lots of individuals as well, and it costs nothing, and comes in various flavors --i suppose there may be entry, home, business and enterprise versions--.
ubuntu is very popular, but hardly ready to run 'out of the box.'
june 5, 2009 11:55 am ok i just have to chime in on this.
they need to if we want to make real progress on the desktop.
i also wonder how many ubuntu baggers, who claim to be debian or fedora fans, are really just doing microsoft's dirty work.
so, what are my options?
rather than producing the best operating system in the world, one that would have users beating a path to their door, they produce an operating system that is pedestrian, and then try to block anyone else from the market by exclusionary deals and "marketing bonuses".
next problem is windows won't let you do your work in a continuous fashion, no sir.
i've published a few posts on that one and keep them for reference when some dodo comes along and tries the same old trick.
dumb and it creates problems.
so it's not much of a trump card, but then if they were smart they wouldn't be propagating nonsense-- is "i hate computers and all operating systems suck.
in it you'll see that steve jobs "obtained" the ideas from them but ms beat them to the punch on releasing it.
" have you successfully played a dvd or many music and video file formats out of the box on a fresh install of windows xp?
their os, has bsd in it.
why even dignify it with a response?
asus had a great idea : they invented the netbook : tiny, cheap, easy to carry.
you could be exposing her/him to porn and other kind of threats, no matter how many protections you have installed.
puting this kind of pressure on manufacturers, signing secret agreements with brands like brother, tom tom and many others is not fair buisness practices and does not look like redmond feels confident of his grip on the desktop market.
entrepreneur shape their corporations in their own image.
in fact they are paid by an ad agency which was in turn hired by ms.
suse is much less expensive to install and license, but their support isn't exactly stellar, and they do some stuff with their code that either isn't standard or doesn't work well, like having no way to add a new nic driver during a network install to a new server!
windows does support far less software out of the box than linux.
well i'm sorry about that, but you see performance on that particular issue is a little. . .
i've used linux ubuntu for 56 weeks now and have made conclusions - i'm not gonna go back to windows anymore.
i know there are trade-offs in our software choices, and i do think they've made the right trade-offs for them.
files send from my customers, a driver for my dvb-t card, a nice dvb player such as dvbviewer (i don't want totem or kaffeine crap), and ms office (no, i won't use openoffice to save .doc files with broken layout), give me *just that*
winxp-sp3 sure works better.
all of us in the industry thank you, but please pay us in cash as your credit cards are probably useless.
the second part of the answer is this - a "vanilla install" (just an install from the windows setup disk) of windows will leave you with a largely unusable system.
i think powerdvd, windvd or other is required, or k-lite codec pack...
june 5, 2009 1:11 am of course microsoft has a perception management team and specifically targets web 2.0 sites like digg and reddit.
" a lie is something that cannot be checked.
bad bad bad thus, everyone buys in those propaganda, and no matter what we, gnu/linux users, say, they won't listen.
if you check the apple news sources and blogs, you see the exact same sort of posts, stating that osx just doesn't work as well as windows, that it doesn't support the right software, that it isn't really reliable, etc.
i think that the matter lies in our culture.
they can both easily be installed from the graphical interface available at applications - add/remove.
you will if they decide either bsd or solaris is dangerous.
all of us in the it community must do our best to keep microsoft alive.
because they don't think they can compete with apple.
and as a result, people will keep windows at home as well...june 5, 2009 4:46 pm unimportant.
how about feeling cheated?
june 5, 2009 9:08 pm victor j kinzer said: "there is just no nice way to say it.
don't get me wrong, linux sucks as much as windows by carla schroder  on june 4, 2009 10:46 pm | permalink | comments (67) |
and even with the new nvidia ion based netbooks the gamers will still only be a tiny percentage - and welcome to use xp (no one makes you change).
your 'ordinary users' should not be allowed to download and install random exes, that is insanely stupid.
there's been too many boneheaded interface bugs, hardware not working (especially printers), and applications they have come to depend on not being available.
in that case, astroturfing simply backfires.
for some reason, most distro's will just hang doing simple things.
why is microsoft so scared of apple?
june 5, 2009 9:01 pm @carla schroder after reading the first 20 comments, anyone would forget what the article was about.
what i also have seen though is how linux users are becoming more confident and hence more shrewd in their responses.
"if anyone challenges this is assertion, the linux "fan" trots out all kinds of edge cases proving that linux is not for anyone but elite geeks: no photoshop, no autocad, no $obscure-bit-of-very-specialized-software used by eight or ten people.
so we had to call in a third party.
i don't use windows anymore."
if it's this much of a nightmare for me, a technically-oriented engineer, it will be 100x worse for them.
the solutions are pretty simple sometimes even if you have to use the terminal that i use rarely.
some other programs will do the same.
i'm not gonna go back to windows.
so, go, spread more fud (don't worry, my customers don't know that they are using gnu/linux).june 5, 2009 9:27 am shoot i didn't know linux wasn't ready yet.
read more tracked on june 6, 2009 6:05 am
june 4, 2009 11:48 pm i have been using ubuntu since 4.10.
"that's a lot of effort against an insignificant os.
then, two or three times a year you'll have to reinstall it from zero, so you'd do yourself a favor by keeping safe all cds that you received with every program you bought.
now comes the real obvious trouble, i was not able to play many music and video file formats nor my favourite dvds.
ain't going to happen.
they are so used to see it.
there is just no good way to get it to run.
windows is so evil and inflexible it's not funny.
recently i put a computer in the store for $20 with 512 mb memory and a 10 gb hard drive with ubuntu 9.04 installed.
not as bad as gm or chrysler, but unless something is done, the company is headed for deep trouble.
june 5, 2009 5:31 am if you have any problems to run dvds in linux just type this in the terminal " sudo apt-get install gstreamer0.10-ffmpeg gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad-multiverse gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly-multiverse gstreamer0.10-plugins-bad gstreamer0.10-plugins-ugly " then miracusly every problem will be solved!
for me, the best distro's are (1) pclinxos, (2) mint 7, and puppy.
my 6 and 9 yr old chose linux over windows based on games.
though having access to plain-text configuration files is a huge bonus for linux; you can actually make tweaks and fix things.
this includes an office suite, anti-virus, photo editing software, real games, and so on and on.
it is definitely, indisputably not ready for the desktop, and i can't believe how deluded someone would be to claim that it is.
i have to use windows at work.
do not ever, for any reason, leave a youngster alone in front of a computer running windows, same as you wouldn't leave a kid inside your car if you plan to leave it unattended.
tow-three years back i was curios, what is free linux and the much hyped quote "free as in beer".
what do you do in a free market when you have a great idea : start boosting sales.
carla, this is not at all surprising.
i work as a volunteer for a charity.
and the same comments over and over.
general firefox browsing performance suffers similarly, though that is improving.
music support (mp3) and video support (everything from dvd's to many formats designed for windows or apple) that are missing because of legal restrictions.
down to windows vista enterprise edition.
about 80% of the time i'm using my computer, i'm pissed off, since i spend 80% of my time trying to fix things and get linux to work instead of actually using it.
avarice and usury and precaution must be our gods for a little longer still."
i've tried recommending linux (ubuntu in particular) to my friends, and in all cases but one it has resulted in them not only going back to windows or mac, but actually getting turned off by linux which will make it much harder for me to recommend it in the future when it improves.
instead you get things like the "get the facts campaign", which was so totally ludicrous that they dropped it.
that's the whole point, if you don't want to configure your system and have it personalized just for you, keep on using what the mass uses.
in linux, you can end up digging through a mountain of /etc configuration files, typing in a lot of mumbo jumbo on a command line, and even offering up animal sacrifices by the pale moon light (that last seems to work better than the other two).
the main problem with it is you have to spend real money to put it to work.
calm, rational response is the only way to answer.
at home, we run nothing but linux and bsd.
tries to shove it down everyone's throat".
it is felt inside ms that the reason why vista failed was that on web 2.0 sites it became fashionable to bad mouth the os, this turned in to group think and thus the os failed.
or it's astroturfing.
"needs are met by the tens of thousands of available linux apps" regular people don't need millions of useless apps.
watch for the talking points used, this is starting now but will be pushed harder after win7 is released, i would expect "windows 7 is the death blow to linux on the desktop" will be a favourite.
it was always big disappointment (win95, win98, 2000, xp), more, it was disaster after using ms os some 1-1½ years.
redmond behaves itself like a compagny that can mandate what manufacturers are allowed to, and what not.
now i am a proud tester of windows 7, so i consider myself a windows lover, but i have found it is just not ready for the desktop.
you could expect to pay somewhere between 200 to 600 us dls for them.
keep in mind that often you'll have to depend on more than one anti-malware product to keep your box relatively safe.
the other 25% of the time the supplier will just say "sorry, you're out of luck.
frankly speacking i am not a geek and want to use something which i can install out of box without using linux scripting or any customization.
but as a company manager, he's terrible.
dictatorship, of course, always hinders the development of innovation.
if someone challenges this escalating silliness and illogic with the  sensible response, which is that people who need those applications obviously  need to keep a mac or windows box around; but for the much larger number of  users whose needs are met by the tens of thousands of available linux apps it's  not an obstacle, the trump card-- ok
am well done tom, it's like you followed a script to the letter.
i had the bright idea to set up some family members with ubuntu pcs running windows in a virtual machine.
who would produce six different versions of the same operating system, with different capabilities, using 99.99% the same source code, and prices ranging from $114.00 to $340.00?
ridiculing the sofud helps too.
i replaced the os on her computer a year ago and now she has not missed a single application (except for a few games).
so i addmit - i was fool.
another example is the "laptop hunters" campaign.
about the only ones that sell for more than $1000,00 are made by apple.
things stop working, usually due to software updates and patches.
it was a truly impressive demonstration of responding with your scripted talking points, rather than responding to the actual article.
i think you're lying about how long you've used ubuntu.
in slashdot on the other hand, this is not as easy, because you need to contribute and have substance to be able to mod others, which reduces trolls number.
someone got me to drink the kool-aid and now i'm too invested in it to switch back.
it's all  about tearing down.
i'm still going to stick with linux.
june 5, 2009 12:08 am all i know is that i am just tired of every linux version being followed by the comment "linux is finally ready for the desktop"
they have the capabilities.
immoral way in which very small start ups lost everything.
it wasn't for lack of talent, microsoft has talented employees.
interruptions will be an everyday nuisance.
they know better than to believe what you said because they are actually using linux for real.
if someone like me to keeps trying to replace my windows desktop, and is fairly comfortable in the command line keeps going back to windows then the mainstream user sure as hell isn't going to make that leap.
you pretend doing hit and run testing just for the sake of trolling.
you'd better google "linux, debian, fedora, opensuse, ubuntu" (strange names, btw) for the product and flavors, and "the blog of helios, lugs, lindependence, zareason" to get some advice and assistance.
the proof is in the targets.
and certainly not launching cheap linux preloaded things on the end user market.
i understand (and tbh don't care) that someday it may become the standard but at the moment the mass don't want it.
june 5, 2009 4:43 pm i won't argue about the home desktop, but a lot of people tend to use at home what they use at work or school, and linux desktops aren't going into the enterprise until a couple of things happen: cost and support.
june 5, 2009 9:02 am @saurabh, "can you tell me whether all the avi, mpg etc which runs on windows will run on that?
can you recall the last  time you read any positive comparisons, where the windows fans said  "windows has these great features and i like them."
yes, you can get linux to work if you are a computer geek with spare time.
it's exactly the same method employed by political trolls since forever.
at any rate they now have ubuntu for web surfing, email, and a lot of everyday tasks, and windows for when they want to use some particular windows application.
did that deprive you of the use of your linux pc?
i managed to install some of them in the vms, but it was hellish.
stupid stupid stupid.
the world economy is at stake here guys!
thats easy to guess : wait until redmond had finally released win 7 !
legal notices, licensing, permissions, privacy policy.
i'm off to check out some more clips.
i've learned to live with the frustrations (like when kde, in an effort to become just as ugly and dysfunctional as vista, released a broken "alpha" version labeled as a full-bodied release) and the problems, but an ordinary user wouldn't.
now, if a customer needs to change his monitor might be a problem never try it, because you will need to configure the x system, haha cheers guys keep on using windows because it sucks and at least you can complain to someone.
lies cannot be validated, truth can.
i won't even bother listing any reasons why i feel linux isn't quite there yet, since i'll just be (probably already have been) written off as some evil microsoft employee.
os your computer will really sucks.
marketplace partnersmarketplace partners internet.commerceinternet.commerce linuxtoday newsletterslinuxtoday newsletters internet.com / blogsinternet.com / blogs internet.cominternet.com
you get a lot of trolls.
the person named "the mad hatter" wrote very interesting things from my point of view.
coverflow on the apple, bought and paid for.
again, microsoft is greedy.
i had to go back to windows to do the research.
if you like linux, fine, but don't say anyone can use it.
hey, there's a saturday night live comedy clip!
i have been using debian and ubuntu almost exclusively for about 3 years.
seriously, that is the belief and there is at least some merit to it.
i would never recommend it to anyone.
often the only difference between versions is that one version has an artificial limit of some sort (such as number of users) while the next one doesn't.
i also recommend the ubuntu-restricted-extras for media playback.
trackbacks (1) i  may be more aware of current fud, disinformation, and anti-linux propaganda  trends because of my job.
i now use 8.04 lts on my dell 1420.
if they lose, so do the anti-virus software people, the anti-spyware people, and the poor folks in nigeria (419), europe/asia/south america that are currently making a living off of the unwashed masses' credit history and gullibility.
it's free, it has all the proprietary drivers in with it and it astonishingly easy to install.
i am content with its quality, and i am trying to start a small business to help people install gnu/linux system at their home.
the fault lies on vista, a much, too much greedy os.
other people will say you can use some packages and download them and it will work for all the music format and dvd, but that is illigal in some (read some as many) contries.
other than that windows is a superb product but as i said before i think it's not ready for the desktop, and i wouldn't recommend it at this stage.
they fix limits of what a is a netbook : no more than 10,2' screen, no more than 1 go ram.
everything was perfect, except volume was very low.
as for the rest of you?
some times this is bad.
when someone believed microsoft to be the end-all and reality proves otherwise, reality bites."
apple's market share is so small, that the company is only a pimple on the face of it.
and quite often a ridiculous one-- look at how many usb devices install their own usb drivers.
i also request the whole linux community not to taint windows but to improve linux distros, these days i am fiding that while opening some file, few distros hangs and i need to close them forcefully.
microsoft is greedy.
many, many years ago i tried fedora core2.
and if they don't change, it is going to kill the company.
your 'ordinary users' need plenty of support to keep their windows boxes functional.
no, i wouldn't expect any of our customers to know how to reconfigure xorg.
stay with what you are "comfortable" and "familiar" with.
anything related to os turns into a flame war no matter what you do.
lets be real, vista is just not as bad as it is painted.
if anyone challenges this is assertion, the linux "fan" trots out all kinds of edge cases proving that linux is not for anyone but elite geeks: no photoshop, no autocad, no $obscure-bit-of-very-specialized-software used by eight or ten people.
childish, to say the least.
these are not obscure issues, with weird programs only a few people use.
they would rather use advertising money to "bend editorial views" than produce something that reviewers would love.
they are so insecure that they don't believe that they can compete in the office suite market without lock in.
they have the talent.
june 5, 2009 4:33 pm thanks to everyone who made thoughtful, pertinent comments.
many microsoft cyber warriors are obviously volunteer evangelists, who knows what is their motivation.
red hat has fine support, but they are as expensive as microsoft, so where is the business case to change?
you have been given no less than five comments providing reasonable insight on why linux is not for everyone (while windows or mac actually are), yet you go again with that "scripted talking" criticism.
redmond had not other choice than finally unburry xp, althoug it was oficially dead.
microsoft hurts  everyone.
i would love to drop m$ and use only linux
it's frustrating for me, because i see all the bs, viruses, and malware they have to deal with, but i'm trying to bite my tongue when i see that.
june 5, 2009 3:37 pm @aaron "it's not a lot of effort.
but as long as more computers are not sold with linux built-in the progression will be slow.
are they going to embrace that as part of strong linux open community or will that also have same community support as open solaris.
the number of people who "need" photoshop to resize images, optimize them for the web and get rid of red eye makes my brain bleed.
nothing ever fscking works right.
june 5, 2009 6:35 pm @carla you had a point, but this last comment of yours shows the little base for it.
june 10, 2009 6:51 am microsoft won't show there code and if they did we all would perfect it and the all would be good in the world of computing and there goes this silly blog.
i agree totally with that because even this free is not charity just like google providing 1 gb of free mailbox space.
not sure what you mean by (taint windows) 98% of us are only speaking from personal experiences that can be reproduced and has been documented.
june 5, 2009 10:12 am while i really wish i could agree with this post i'm going to have to come out and say that linux is still not quite ready.
june 6, 2009 11:53 am hasta pronto alejo alejo, asus/intel did not invent the netbook.
yes, not everybody needs those applications, but that's another story.
this happens with windows sometimes, too, but the solution is usually for the clueless user to download an exe from the web and run it -- problem solved.
june 5, 2009 10:41 am in reference to tow-three years back i was curios, what is free linux and the much hyped quote "free as in beer".
i recommend especially families with children turning to linux.
june 12, 2009 3:28 pm
well guess what-- their windows disks were not the full retail versions, but restore disks.
most of us are not going to change someone's mind about their desktop preference anyway.
i know what windows os using is all about - malwares, worms, viruses - these so called anti-virus programms can't help at all.
microsoft is the only odf implementer that messed up the implementation.
read mahfaan comment.
linux has come a long ways.
but that is another discussion in itself.
june 5, 2009 3:18 am lord keynes, in the 1930's, understood the issue.
june 5, 2009 7:32 am that was a classic, saurabh.
at home i do have a choice.
oh and by the way, please get a copy of anti-virus software (don't forget the annual subscriptions!), anti-malware (more subscriptions) and a personal firewall (guess what, it costs every year too).
one point of caution.
why offer 6 versions of desktop windows, and 4 or 5 versions of server windows, all of which use virtually the same source code?
but then i think it's silly to prosthelytize either for or against an operating system anyway.
i encourage service providers for microsoft products and developers for microsoft platforms to take a look at each of the above distros, ponder on the potential, and seize the bull by the horns.
sometimes you may expect to reboot your box up to three times a day.
my question why is it so, it works on windows, mac software why not on linux.
microsoft doesn't think that they can deliver an operating system that will make a computer worth more that $1000,00 to consumers.
as [i]grege[/i] wrote, the calm response is better, and for readers i suppose the honest ones will be able to easier pick up things like "this feature work great in linux" or "this solution is both cost and performance effective" instead of gorilla growls.
all this scenarized fud shows clearly in the "it's better with windows" asus recent campaing.
what i notice most of all, and this has been true for years, is how negative the microsoft trolls and astroturfers are.
if you've done this, said this long before, why are you telling us.
i believe in free software, so i don't even run things like flash, which sucks, but it's important to me not to support software which takes away my freedoms.
i have already converted tens of "idiots" computer users to ubuntu and all are more satisfied there than in the crappy windows.
overall it runs much more quickly than windows.
also please let me know if microsoft opens its code to the community how linux guru will react?
hans bezemerjune 5, 2009 2:41 am @saurabh give mandriva one a try.
i use and like windows 7 along with my preferred ubuntu 9.04, but that is due to games and specialized software that people haven't made for linux yet.
that's a lot of effort against an insignificant os.
they say some places called lugs will even install it for you at little or no cost, but you see, i am a windows lover and i can't give you no further advise.
i keep waiting for it to be ready, but i've been waiting for over a decade now, and i'm starting to lose hope.
as usual with so many linux advocates, yours is an emotional stance, rather than an intellectual one.
they don't think that the bsd based operating systems are, so they don't get attacked in the same way, or at the same level.
i've been using ubuntu since feisty and it sucks.
"is it billionaire worship, the idea that any random robber baron is worth worshiping?" not really.
technical excellence?
the time for desktop linux is now!
1 trackbacks listed below are links to blogs that reference this entry: don't get me  wrong, linux sucks as much as windows.
go figure... "microsoft hurts everyone."
and i wished i could use for more than a nice hobby".
" they are probably busy rebooting their machines most of the time ...
true, it's an expanding pimple, but 6 percent?
to everyone, a. good = expensive b. nerds = bad c. rich people = talented, hard working, etc.
"no real competition except linux" microsoft's fault?
your post is not worth responding to, but i just wanted to let you know that linux users (old and new) are past such lies.
martyjune 5, 2009 9:34
drm, stifled innovation, collusion with hardware vendors, worldwide  malware damage in the tens of billions of dollars every year, price fixing,  hardware fixing, corrupting legislative and standards bodies, no real  competition except linux-- why on earth would any rational person find that  admirable?
sorry, but if you *need* autocad or photoshop for your job, linux is *not* an option.
it will cost you between 40-50 dls to have it reinstalled or you could do it yourself which will take between 4 and 40 hours.
some of this is outsourced as well.
i wonder if he represents people threatened by the distros he mentioned: http://www.ubuntu.com/ http://www.pclinuxos.com/ http://www.linuxmint.com/ http://puppylinux.org/ http://www.slax.org/ he missed some great ones, of course.
however 75% of the time if it doesn't work out of the box it's a simple wizard style installer and a reboot away from working.
what they do is register accounts with all kinds of forums and communities.
it will try and install a lot of patches, after which it will prompt you to death to restart your machine.
read their sec filings, the company is in bad shape.
if someone challenges this escalating silliness and illogic with the sensible response, which is that people who need those applications obviously need to keep a mac or windows box around; but for the much larger number of users whose needs are met by the tens of thousands of available linux apps it's not an obstacle,
my point is that those folks aren't interested in anything related to anyone's real computing but prefer to spin hypothetical claims, that might be true to some degree but in the bigger picture are quite irrelative.
so lets scratch that little furfie about the lack of photoshop being a drawback for ordinary linux users, the lack of photoshop isn't even a drawback for a bunch of techie windows users who make their living building web applications for multi million dollar companies.
there is just no nice way to say it.
" you can install vlc if you want to be able to play avi or mpg.
read moretracked on june 6, 2009 6:05 am the next question that follows.
it ran fine on the bench but when they hooked it to a monitor in the store the whole video went bad.
they know every trick, dll and registry hack like the backs of their hands, and they sort of like their view from the top.
we still haven't learnt after 80 years.
it's pretty close to what in other circumstances has been labelled "master suppression techniques".
so the company tries to avoid having to compete, but making it hard for other operating systems to use the hardware.
i managed to get it working smoothly with linux, but it wasn't easy.
in my home linux stands for 3 of 5 systems, and the other two are one windows and one bsd system.
it might just meet your needs.
anyway, thanks for the tip on hulu.
they are scared that given the option, people will use software from other vendors.
trackback url for this entry: https://swarm.internet.com/mt-tb.cgi/8176»does microsoft corrupt the term “netbook” to belittle gnu/linux on arm?
it's fully capable of doing everything windows does (and more), does it so much more efficiently, and doesn't cost a darned thing (in most cases).
quotes from ef schumaker's "small is beautiful," a book which perhaps should be distributed as part of the gpl!
this is not a minor issue, this is a huge problem, and because drivers are built into the kernel it's usually either an impossible fix, or well into crazy command line world to fix.
who will benefit from a open market ?
in nearly every story of linux on netbooks some clown will pipe up with "but linux can't play games", as if anyone in their right mind would play 3d games on a netbook.
but it is afraid of linux (and it was afraid of netscape, and is deathly afraid of apple).
so in case you hadn't  noticed, here is the latest hot trend in anti-linux baloney: supposed linux  fans and advocates who really really love linux and have been using it for  years, but can't recommend it for anyone else because "it's not  ready."
where did i say linux is for everyone?
and i'll use linux to please you.
i spend 80% of my working day "fixing" these broken systems that are infected with malware and the other 20% reading logs and reports about the latest "infections" coming down the road.
i check and repair donated computers that are put into our store and sold at very reasonable prices.
the sheer unrelenting intensity of comment makes you wonder.
i bought her a nintendo ds and that problem was solved.
two years after installin win
could it be the linux percentage of the desktop is much larger than "almost 1%"?
i invite anybody to check my statement about ubuntu being a more than descent os.
my complaints have to do with two simple phenomenon.
linux is not for everyone.
because microsoft, if it wanted, could produce something fantastic.
woz has repeatedly said that jobs is not technical.
if they are using microsoft xml, they are locked into microsoft office.
am saurabh: we have seen too many posts like yours already and they don't bother us a bit any more.
well even a newbie like me can install lenny without the command line and after you read a few lines you can even setup your video drivers, had more trouble over the many years with windows and all the money i spend on it.
june 5, 2009 8:09 am once again, i already pointed this kind of troll out way back here, as "the schizophrenic", due to their simultaneously claiming to run and love linux while bashing it.
i don't know if my own response is particularly shrewd, but sometimes i simply avoid defending anything even how ridiculous the claims are and answer something similar to the headline of this article: "linux sucks, windows sucks, but for my needs linux sucks less".
application performance, especially consumer application performance sucks.
you're definitely part of the problem.
it's either an epidemic of reading incomprehension coupled with amazingly similar comments.
they don't think that solaris is dangerous either, and you'll note in the solaris blogs that you don't see this sort of attack very much either.
there's a reason why microsoft is "very generous" with the testing of windows 7 (count the numbers running windows 7 rc or beta and you have a huge number of folks voluntarily hammering out flaws in the system; still some will encounter problem with the final product since the configuration options of hardware is numerous).june 5, 2009 4:53 am "now comes the real obvious trouble, i was not able to play many music and video file formats nor my favourite dvds.
what i notice most of all, and this has been true for years, is how  negative the microsoft trolls and astroturfers are.
long story short, that is not happening.
when something breaks in windows you have no options but to wait for it to be fixed, and you pay money for this 'privilege.'
microsoft doesn't want component manufacturers to release their hardware specifications.
slax is also good but on pendrive, it has been unstable.
years ago, linux would rarely crash, but winxp would crash daily.
regarding economic issues and the quest for "enough", he said that in order for everyone to be rich, it was necessary "..to pretend to ourselves and to everyone that fair is foul and foul is fair; for foul is useful and fair is not.
copyright 2010 quinstreet inc.
"in linux, you can end up digging through a mountain of /etc configuration files, typing in a lot of mumbo jumbo on a command line, and even offering up animal sacrifices by the pale moon light" uh huh.
sorry, you've got your orifices mixed up.
i tried knoppix and after sometime ubuntu.
the microsoft who made it.
the current management team is a large part of this, they were hand picked by the company founder, and reflect his views.
let me tell you why, in no particular order.
if a strong guts manufacturer starts saying : stop, enough with this redmond dictatorship, things will start to change.
other problem, ubuntu 7 worked on my laptop but when i installed the latest version, it did not recognized my graphic card and started in command mode, it was enough for me to stop then and there itself.
linux bashers always score c/ejune 5, 2009 8:50 am the main problem in my opinion is that people try linux thinking about windows or mac and they even try to compare them.
personally i don't care if 1% or 10% use linux.
do the same and you will see that the world is ready!
i have another theory (not that we are not larger than 1%).
secondly the oem installed linuxes do have the necessary codec to play multimedia files.
trackback url for this entry: https://swarm.internet.com/mt-tb.cgi/8176 »does microsoft corrupt the term “netbook” to belittle  gnu/linux on arm?
hello, first, sorry for my faulty english, not my native language.
expect to pay another 10-50% of the original cost.
my wife, the computer n00b, wouldn't know where to begin.
90% of computer users don't need actually windows or any ms applications.
-abejune 5, 2009 10:04 am first of all, let me just say that i've been using some flavor of linux exclusively for many years now, and i can tell you that it is ready for the desktop, but *only* the desktop of someone who knows what they're doing.
do you mean making it available to download as apposed to making all other operating systems unavailable?
simple upgrades can remove features without warning (how many people actually read the description of every change that is offered, and how many times does that description say "description not yet available"?).
i have been using linux for over 10 years and used many different hardware with none of the problems you mention, at least not in recent distros.
considering their market share, linux should be a minor irritant.
my advice : read less, think/experiment more and you'll now the truth.
the problem is that "overall" word.
june 5, 2009 2:56 am "richard chapman said: ...
steve ballmer is a good salesman.
it's for the diy crowd, the techies like myself who can deal with it, and don't mind the occasional inconveniences.
do you complain when mac hardware or software doesn't work on windows?
but they are too insecure, too greedy, and too lazy to do this.
it seems obvious to me which one it is.
that will give you that ability (legally as far as i am aware) on both platforms!
not sure what you're talking about there,pal.
they need just a handful of basic apps that do what they need.
your 'ordinary users' only advantage with windows is years of familiarity.
i know what linux cult(sorry to use this word but linux geek should be proud of this) will say, legally they will say that these are propritery formats, so that's not free and can not be included in the free distribution.
every year these issues are less than the year before, but they refuse to go away entirely.
then afterwords i believe many of us would be cautious for good reason for a while then possibly embrace it first in pieces and maybe one day in whole.
that leaves the microsoft partners do defend their beloved income.
i especially enjoyed that schtick about your not having been able to play your favourite dvds and about hanging the system by trying to open some files.
if i understand your comment correctly i believe you would like to thank xerox for the gui.
oh, and by the way, to do full video playback, just click on the flashplayer icon provided, just like in windows.
the people throwing money into the kernel have server businesses.
windows users mostly don't know or even care what they are using.